 

See Omar, Abdallah began, how beautiful! - Ha! the calm sea on the moon so lovely descends
- the evening that still whispers in the high tops of the trees, the Song of the nightingale,
the echoes up with a thousand alternating melodies from the forest - Just see Omar! how happy
all the creatures, like everything alive and happy in life is! See, as the small flies take on
the evening red-bye, and the Beetle the night his Welcome entgegensummt dull. - Oh, the living
force of nature so inexhaustible swells and countless nature gives life and breath, - the sight
fills the heart with loud overflowing gratitude to those who caused so kind as everything
from nothing and Dove said: "Live and be happy! -

Omar leaned on the trunk of a felled tree and looked down rigidly in front of him.

Abdallah. You are sad, my Omar, can make up this sight not cheerful?

Omar looked up and took his hand. - Look, he said, the evening flies are gone, they sang the sun
after so melancholy, because it was the last time that they are in their jet refreshed. - This wave
life throws at the beach, the next wave comes swallows it again and it reduces to the lowest depths.
- An unlimited creation plays alive now " around you - and in the next hour - it is dead and
decomposing. - A vital force flies by the nature and essence million received as a alms for
a moment a spark of life, they are - and then give their life again
and be dead dust.

The world is a song where a sound the other swallows and is swallowed by another. -

Abdallah. This sad truth, Omar throws down my enthusiasm pretty powerful. - Oh yes, everything
goes through the countryside and passing through like a spark in the ashes. Everything is born
only to die, everything turns back to where it came is. - O Omar,
if I now asked: Why this moon shines?

Why do these stars sparkle and what a breath of life breathed into my heart?

Omar. Why? - Oh boy, let the earth unaufgewühlt, you'll see an ugly dead skeleton! Let the secrets
of your soul forever remain closed. -

Abdallah. Closed? - Oh no, my mind is pressing against this door and knocks impetuously on.
- What can take the man who wants to understand me too.

Omar. You trust yourself a sea that never wears you back on shore,
roll in doubt in doubt, wave after wave rushes, your rudder is useless,
and the endless sea expands immensely towards you terribly.

Abdallah. As for prospects! What Rapture
- If I imagined that my whole life, that even the ages, in whose boundless depths, the lucky
throughout the period of bliss so much can be lost, then flow into their intuition and on their side
would!

Such lively hopes presupposed that I would find them again, and this desire brought with it the
desire to know who she was. But who could I ask? I had no friend to whom I could see me, by every
second, I thought that he at such a question all my secrets in my eyes would read, and the
love that is a very good adviser, had already made me realize how much was keen to that the
Pythia not in the least come to the ears of what you would have the state of my heart betrayed,
or can lead them to a wary observation of my behavior. So I locked myself in my desire, and
awaited with impatience, to any I love my-mind-effective protection would help this desired discovery.
After a few days it happened that I am my beloved stranger in one of the atria the temple met.
The fear of being observed by someone stopped me in the very Moment back, I hasten to them and
my delight at this unexpected Sign in sight, and perhaps in exclamations erupt wanted to leave.
She stopped, by saw me, some moments are, and looked at me. I felt a sudden to see the rising
pleasure in her beautiful face, she blushed, his eyes struck again down, and hurried away.
I could 'do not dare to follow her, but followed my eyes her, so long as it was possible, and I saw
that they went in to a door, which in the apartment the priestess led. I went to the grove, to
my pleasant thoughts about this Release indulge undisturbed. The last fact, I had noticed, and
their Clothes, gave me the suspicion that perhaps one of the Aufwaerterinnen the Pythia was, that
this lady had a large number, but (except for special celebrations) were rarely visible. This
discovery concerned me even after all the important they had for me when I, in fact the most
inopportune time in the world, to the affectionate Priest was called .-- The desire and the
hope that my love for this opportunity to see again, I welcome this invitation power initially, but my joy
was soon driven by the thought of how difficult it would be me if my unknown present would be,
my feelings for them to hide the eyes of a rival. The Arts of dissimulation were unknown to me, and
my mind-formed impulses (also against my will) off too fast and too much in my appearance than
I am in all my efforts to be cautious, keep safe enough. These thoughts gave me (I think)
a rather confused look, as I had first of the Pythia was. But since no one I, as a little slave
girl of nine or ten years, with her was, I recovered soon, and they seemed even with its own
movements too busy to give on mine just eight, - or (which is at least as likely is) they put
the change they perceive in my face had, in favor of its From irritation, from which they could
expect this time more Wuerkung, the more they had probably studied it, put them in this lovely
shade of light, which the imaginative power usually so strongly drawn to the benefit of the
senses into play. She sat or was (since their position was a mixture of both) on a silver and
pearls richly embroidered bed rest, her whole wall had this Petite Bequests, behind which the
art is hidden in a clever way, if they do not want to be seen to it that they come to the aid of nature,
her clothing, the color of their own modest as much than the decency of their dignity was appropriate
surged, though in many wrinkles around her; but it was already seen to it that here and there
the beautiful contour of what it covers was clear enough, was to draw the eye up, and to make
chandeliers curiosity. Her arms, she had very beautiful, were in wide and half-sleeves and tucked
almost to see the whole, and a movement that they, while our conversation, unknowingly would
have made a bosom drove out of his wrappings, which is irritating enough was to make her face twenty
years younger. She noted that small variations finite, but the means by which she sought to bring
the things back in order, was with the discomfort connected to damage to half a foot was visible,
the the most beautiful Spartan woman can boast to have. The profound indifference, which I left
all this irritation was, without doubt, that I could make observations, why not an agitated audience
would have had the freedom. However it gave me a kind of of shame that I felt good, instead of
Pythia Annealing on my cheeks, a reputation of confusion, which the lady who, in doubtful cases
all times in favor of their self-love ruled that seemed pretty well pleased. They probably
wrote a shy indecision or a dispute between reverence and love for that I (despite the strong
impression she made on me) gave her no opportunity to let them see the delicacy of their virtue. I
had encouragements necessary stoop to what you are not an experienced lover would. The skill
that you attributed to me to read in art, the poet, served it as an excuse, I propose a time-sales,
some of which they Befoederung that intention could promise. They assured me that Homer was
their favorite author, and asked me to make her the pleasure, listening to a sample of my prized
talent to leave. She took a Homer, who was lying next to her, and stood after a while had sought,
as if she was indifferent to what song it would be and they gave me my first the best in the
hands, but fortunately it was just the one in which Juno, with the Belt of Venus decorated, the father
of the gods in such a vivid memory of youth their conjugal love is .-- From the poetic fire, which glows in
this painting, and delighted the sweet melodious sound of the Homeric verse, they did not watch,
for in what A temptation disorder part of their plaster by movement of the admiration which she did,
was come. She took the occasion of this point, the absolute power of the Love of God to make the object
of the meeting. She seemed to think those cheap to be, who assert that resist the idea of ​​such
a powerful deity to want to be born only in a measured and ruthless soul. I agreed at her,
but claimed that most of the terms in which it differs from this god made, the great obligation
to think of the deity only the worthiest and most perfect, very close to were allowed to, and
that the poet by the overly sensual education of their allegorical Fables of the pieces are in
no small offense be guilty. Unnoticed I talked myself into an enthusiasm to which I, according
to the principles of my mysterious rich philosophy intellektualischen of love, the love that
the way to look at the essential beauty is the love which the intellectual wing of the Soul develops,
it swells with every virtue and perfection, and most recently by the union with the original and
primary source of good in an abyss of light, peace and immutable Bliss draws in which they devoured
entirely, and at the same time destroying account and idolized is - so sublime, myself very clear
to my imagination, the beautiful priestess but said so incomprehensible things that, in the
same proportion, according to which, my Imagination power warms up, gradually it was euthanized.
could in fact be in the prospectus of such a beautiful bosom, as I saw before me nothing stranger
than a Lob-speech on the intellektualische love, also gave the Pythia deceived by such a sample
all hope for me, this evening at least, to think in a natural way to herumzustimmen love. They
fired me so soon after me, although to a given rather enigmatic way to hear was that she had special
reasons to I accept more than any other Kostgaengers of Apollo. I might understand from the, what
they told me about it so much that they have a close Anverwandtin I myself still unknown Father
was, that it will be their soon may be allowed me the secret of my birth discover, and that I
only have to update this closer relationship, if they I distinguish a friendship that me without
that fact, perhaps would have can alienate. This opening to the truth made me doubt not her
face, had doubled Wuerkung - to persuade me that I was in my mind of their Sentiments could have cheated
- and they at once for an interesting subject to make my heart. In fact, I started from the
moment I heard that with my father had befriended on her with other eyes to see, and perhaps would them
of the dispositions in which I was placed by a short-term advantage over have to draw as surprised
with all the tricks and she got my senses want. But the good lady either did not know how much
you won some people if you can find resources to draw her heart to his side, or she was curious
about my Conduct bitterly, and thought can not avenge their despised irritation better than
if they just removed me from the moment, since it in my eyes read that I would be loved to stay
longer. All requests that your kindness by a stronger make discovery of the mystery of my birth
was completely would like, in vain, she sent me away, and was cruel enough to let some time
go by until they took me come before him left. At another time, would the desire to know those
which I have to thank the life I have made this delay to a severe penalty; but then it only took
a few minutes, again to be alone, and my thoughts to a Beloved unknown to the priest, with all its charms,
and with everything they told me and had not told to wipe from my mind again. I was infinitely
times know to be superior, who this unknown, and whether they actuality (as I flattered myself)
for me feel what I felt for them, as in regard myself from a lack of knowledge to be drawn against
which the habit had made me almost indifferent: As long as I do not know, I would make the discovery,
to be the heir of a king, with Coldness have viewed. The look she had pinned on me this evening
seemed to promise me something for my heart had infinitely more charm than all the advantages
of shiny birth. My whole being seemed by that looks like a supernatural The light shines through,
and transfigured - but I did not distinguish clearly what was going on inside me - but I so
often it again in this position with the eyes, with the expression on her lovely face presented,
(and this was always so lively, as if I actuality recipients considered with eyes) so I thought
my heart with love and pleasure to melt away in sensations, for their penetrating sweetness no
words are invented. "- Here was Agathon (whose Imagination power, heated by the memories of his
first love, a beautiful swing, as we see, taking began) through a fairly significant alteration
in the face The beautiful listener stopped in the middle of the course of his ill-timed enthusiasm,
and from his eighteenth year in which he has been back in this little ecstasy was at once returned
to Smyrna, in front of themselves and brought the beautiful Danae.

CHAPTER FOUR

Continuation of the preceding

It is an old saying that one sells a nice lady who currently only bad if them from the impressions
that has made a different to our hearts, keeps. The more Fire, the more truth, more eloquence, we
show in such a case, the lovely our descriptions, the more beautiful our pictures, our ever animated
expression, the more certain May we expect to lull our listener. This observation should especially
those who can be recommended, which is a actuality owned standing lover with the history of their
former verliebtet adventure entertained. Agathon, who still far from it was to be master of
his imagination and power, this rule had to utter lost sight of, as he had once come to the narration
of his first love. The liveliness of his recollections, they seemed to transform feelings, he
thought not that it would be less offensive, a mistress, as Danae, with all the metaphysics intellektualischen
of love, as with so enthusiastic descriptions of the benefit of a other, and the feelings which
she infused to maintain. A kind of middle course between yawning and sighing, which you at the point
where we stopped his stories have escaped, and a certain expression of boredom, the erzwungnen from
an air burst forth from hilarious attention, made him at last aware of his indiscretion be, he
hesitated for a moment he blushed, and there was little that the relationship he its history
would have lost about it. But he recovered quickly enough yet again, to his confusion any excuse
to give a random, and continued his narrative continued by stating agreed with him, more to
give to themselves eight, and his descriptions abzukuerzen so much as it just might be able always,
a header, in which our Readers will find themselves at least as well
as the beautiful Danae, when he otherwise capable will be to keep
themselves say.

"The Sweet Dreams" (continued the hero of our story) "where my heart is like to be as used to weigh,
did not have enough actuality, this comfortable state of my mind to maintain for long. A tender
melancholy which, however, not without a kind of lust was seized me so strongly that I had trouble
to conceal from those who with whom I had to spend part of the day. I sought solitude, and because
I During the day, had only a few hours in my power, I began again, the largest Of the time in
which others were asleep, in the pleasant groves that surround the temple, with by watching my
thoughts and the picture of my unknown. met in one of these nights it is that I got lost in
an area of ​​approximately of the grove, which the reputation of a wilderness but the most graceful
that one can only imagine, had. Midst of it left the bushes which in labyrinthine curvature
with tall cypress trees and lots of home-grown bowers discontinued, the wall around themselves, an
open square, with half of Circul wild laurel trees, which arose from a series is always about
the other, framed, on the other hand, only low shrubs and roses with myrtle hedges garlanded
easily was. Midst of it lay a few nymphs of white marble, ueberhangendem rose bushes shade, which
seemed to sleep on their boxes, however, a source from each urn in this is a large pool of polished
black granite marble poured in which the women who which, under the protection of the Delphic
Apollo for hours to bathe in the summer used to. This place was (according to legend) the Diana
holy, and no male was allowed to walk, under penalty, to draw the ire of this inexorable goddess,
are subject to their sacred resting place to get close. Probably made an exception in favor of
the goddess of an innocent dreamer who (without the slightest intention to disturb their rest,
and without knowing even know where he came), was lost this place. For me instead of her anger to make
sense, it benefits me rather a phenomenon which is pleasant to me was as if they themselves
to make me their Endymion, came down to me would be. Because I at the very moment when I had this
appearance, the place where I was, for those who saw me more often
to him to be able to avoid the more certain, as described had been,
so my first thought was actuality that it was the goddess who, by
the Hunting tired slumber under their nymphs. rocked by a heavenly
ecstasies, would I already draw back the foot, and when I shine of
the moon-light incident side aware of was that it was my unknown.

I will not try to describe how I was at that moment to mute and it was one of those to whom
I remember only allowed to believe that a being who is capable of such a delight to nothing
less be determined as to the delight of the gods can. "Now could I not naturally more thought,
I withdraw any unnoticed, my only concern was the amiable Lonely to a time and a place where they
have no witnesses, least of all a male could suggest, by any sudden surprises to scare. The position
in which it was applied to one of marble nymphs, was to realize that she was amazed, I looked
it for a long while, and this was not me aware of it. This fact allowed me my to take, to supervise
its own place, and such that, as soon as they open my eyes, I would have to recognize infallible. This
precaution had demanded Wuerkung. She saw me, she was taken aback, but she recognized me but too
fast for me to watch a satyrs. My appearance seemed to her more pleasure than to make trouble.
 July negotiated repeatedly with his navigator. Several times observed and Tom Turner
and himself the barometer, this time not to estimate the height, but to see various signs of an imminent
weather change. 

As I told him, as I have just found his Lisei, and only now he looked at me with open eyes. "Thank
God! Thank God!" he said and folded her hands. "Yes, yes, Lisei small and little Paul, who
played together now - The little Paul! Silk Your little Paul? Oh, i think you's have, the
generous G'sichtl of the fresh Bub'n, that looks out because no! "He nodded to me as to intimate
that the white hair on his skewer Shook his head. "Yes, yes, down there at the lake with you, we
are nit again got there, the was no good time dermal, there was aa nor my wife, the daughter
of the great scourge of Brecht, there! "Joseph!" she would say, "if only people had aa Sun wires
to their heads because you could aa drudgery stuff me with teeth firti "- If she had only
lived today still, they would have me not locked. Dear God, I'm not a thief, Mr. Paulsen.

The inspector who went outside in front of the door ajar going up and down, had already a rattled
several times with his key ring. I tried to calm the old man and asked him to rely on his first
interrogation on me, which I respected and well known here was.

When I went back to my mistress in the room, she cried against me, "This is a Maedel defiant,
Paulsen, because I only like a little help, I'm the chamber for their night quarters offered, but she
wants to continue in the begging Hostel or God knows where "!

I asked Lisei whether they have their passports with them.

"My God, Schulz has taken off in the village of us!"

"This is not a host you open his door," I said, "that you know yourself well."

She knew it, of course, and the champion shook their hands with pleasure. "I think so," she said,
"that you have your own little head, the DA's me told minutely as you have been sitting together
in the box, but you were so easily but not come away from me! "

The Lisei looked down a little embarrassed in front of him, but then she asked hastily after their
Father. After I had given her notice, I asked myself a few Bettstuecke of the Champion, took
from mine yet add something and carried it over himself in the cell the prisoner, which I had
just received from the inspector's permission .-- so we could, as now Night came, hope that in the
warm bed and on the best pillow, which are in the world There, will
also revive our old friend in his desolate chamber, a gentle sleep.

On other mornings, as I was to go to the Lord Kriminalkommissarius on the road came, came from over
there, the inspector in his slippers morning striding towards me. "You have been right, Paulsen,
"he said in his glass voice," this time it's for no Rascal was; the right one they have just
introduced, your age is still released today to be. "

And sure enough, after several hours, opened the door of the jail,
and the old Tendler hinuebergewiesen was the commanding voice of the
inspector to us.

Because the lunch was just applied, so the champion is not resting
until he took his place at the table had, but he hardly touched the
good food, and how they might also seek him, he was taciturn and withdrawn
sitting next to his daughter, only sometimes I noticed how he took
their hand and stroked it tenderly.

As I heard out of the gate produces a Gloeckchen jingle, and I knew it very well, but there were
ringing me far away from my childhood.

"Lisei!" I said softly.

"Yes, Paul, I hear it well."

And soon we were both out there on your doorstep.

Behold, it came down the street, the Little cart with the two large
boxes, as I had at home I watch many times.

A Peasant boy walked near her with reins and whip in hand, but rang the bell Now the neck of a small
mold.

"Where the brewing stones go?" I asked Lisei.

"The brewing stones," she replied, "that one day we fell in front of the car, the father has
the vet immediately brought from the village, but it can never live. "

At these words the tears gushed from his eyes.

"What ails you, Lisei?" I asked, "but now it's all good again!"

She shook her head. "My Vaterl pleases me nit He is so quiet, and the shame he verwind't it nit "-..
And Lisei had their eyes well seen as a loyal daughter, the two barely
housed in a small inn and the old man had been his plans to proceed
designed - for here he did not now stand in front of people - compelled
him to as a fever, in stay bed.

Soon we had to pick a doctor, and it developed a long illness. Concerned that they could get
in trouble because I gave my money to Lisei Help there to, but she said: "I take it from you
so happy, but only nit careful, we are so very nit barren.

"Since I had for nothing else to do than go to the vigil with her, or, as if the patient got
better after work to chat for an hour at his bedside.

So the time was herangenaht my departure, and I was the heart and
more difficult.

I did almost painful to watch the Lisei, because soon it went so well with his father again
in the wide world. If they had only had a home! But where to find them, if I wanted to send greetings
and message to them! I thought of the twelve years since our first farewell, - should again take
such a long time or even at the end of a lifetime?

"And I cited gruess your father's house, when you come home!"

Lisei said, because it on the last night I had accompanied to the
front door.

"I see's with my 'eyes, the Baenkerl front of the door, Lind in the Gart'l ah, i never forget
it, so I'm loving nit's back g'funden in the world! "

When she said that, it was as light from dark depths to my home to
me, and I saw the affectionate eyes of my mother, the honest face
of my father's firm.

"Oh, Lisei"

I said, "where is now my father's house!

It's all dull and empty."

Lisei did not answer, they just gave me his hand and looked at me
with her good eye.

Because I felt as I heard the voice of my mother: "Hold this hand and transport with her back,
you have your home again "- and I held his hand and said," Kehr you back with me, Lisei, and
let us try together, a new life in the empty house bring to a have
been as good as it have led those who once loved you, too!

"

"Paul," she cried, "what do you mean is I understand Tues nite."

But her hand trembled violently in mine, and I only asked: "Oh, Lisei me, understand"

She was silent a moment. "Paul," she said then, "i can go from nit mei'm Vaterl."

"The must indeed with us, Lisei! In the back house, the two little rooms, which are now empty because
he can live and economies, and the old Henry has his little room close by, "Lisei. nodded.
"But Paul, we end up moving folks. What to say they are with you at home?"

"They will talk conversant, Lisei!"

"And you're nit fear from it?"

I just laughed it.

"Well," said Lisei, and like a bell struck sound in her voice, "if you have them - i 've already
Kuraschi! "

"But you do's because too much?"

"Yes, Paul, if i 's like nit ity" - and she shook her brown head against me -, "Gel, as perpetrators
i 's never!"

"And, my boy," broke off here, the narrator, "like a case of such a pair of words black Maedchenaugen
See that thou shalt learn now, when you first got in years more art! "

"Yes, yes," I thought, "since such a pair of eyes can burn out a lake!"

"And not true," Paulsen began again, "now you know well nigh who the Lisei."

"This is Paulsen's wife!" I replied. "As if I did not long ago would have noticed! You says
yes still "nit" and also has the black eyes beneath the feingepinselten eyebrows. "

My friend laughed, while I secretly undertook the woman Paulsen, when
we go home zurueckkaemen, but for once it to see if still in the puppet-Lisei
her was seen .-- "But," I asked, "where is the old man gone to Tendler?

"My

dear child," replied my friend, "where we all finally come. Over There the green churchyard he
rests next to our old Henry, but it is still one more to his Grave
to come into it, the other little friend from my childhood.

I will be well with thee tell, only let us go a little Hintenaus, my wife could once after
nigh want to see us, and they should not hear the story yet again. "

Paulsen got up and we went out on the park, which also behind the gardens the city along leads.
Few people came to meet us, for it was already at the vespers.

"You see" - Paulsen began his story again - "the old Tendler was present with our Verspruch very
well pleased, he thought of my parents, whom he had once known, and he also took me to trust. Besides,
he was tired of walking, so, since it is in danger had brought to be confused with the most
confused vagabond, was in him the desire after a fixed up home grown more and more. My good
champion but was not so agree, she was afraid, with all good will but let the child of itinerant
Puppeteer .-- not give the right woman for a sedentary craftsman Well, they has long since been converted
- and so was I after only eight days here again from the mountains to the North Sea coast, in our
old home town. I was with the Heinrich Shops vigorously in hand and taught at the same time,
the two vacant rooms in the back of home for the Father Joseph .-- a fortnight on - it just
painted the scents of the first Fruehlingsblumen about the gardens - came as it heraufgebimmelt
the street. "Master, Master!" cried the old Henry, "they come, they come!" And as was already the
little cart with the two tall boxes in front of our door. The Lisei was there, his father Joseph
was there, both with merry eyes and red Cheeks, and the whole puppet moved with them, for the
express condition was it is that this should accompany the father Joseph to his old age. The
small wagon on the other hand was sold in the next few days already.

Then we stopped the wedding, all in silence, for we had no further blood friends at the site, only
the Harbour Master, my old school friend, was present as a witness
to.

Lisei was how their parents, Catholic, but that the railroad could be an obstacle for our marriage;
We never occurred. In the early years she traveled well for Easter Confession In our neighboring
city, where, as you know, a Catholic church is, after it has their worries, only her husband
confessed.

On the wedding morning, Father Joseph laid before me with two bags on the table, one major old
resin-thirds, a small fully Kremnitzer ducats.

"You have nit then asks Paul!" he said. "But it is totally poor but my Lisei you nit spent. Take it!
i need allfurt's more nit. "That was the saving pennies, of which my father once said, and he
now came to his son the re-launch his business in handy Time.

Of course it had Liseis father gave his entire fortune and even the For children entrusted to
its care, but he was not idle, he sought his carving knife out again and did the work at the
workshop to make useful.

The puppet theater in addition to the apparatus were in a crate on the floor of the house next door accommodated.
Only on Sunday afternoons he brought now one and then another in
his room down, revised the wires and joints and cleaned or repaired
this and that the same.

The old Henry stood with his short pipe next to him and let the Tell fortunes of the dolls,
of which nearly had each its own story, so how it now came out, the so effectively carved Kasper
once had for his young maker even the matchmakers to Liseis mother made. Sometimes were used to better
illustrate one or the other scene, probably the wires set in motion, and I have Lisei often stood
outside the windows, which have made of green vine leaves it feel
happy to the court looked outside, but inside the old children were
usually so engrossed in their game, that they are noticeable only
by our applause of the spectators was the presence .-- As weiterrueckte
the year, Father Joseph found other employment, he took the garden
under his care, he planted and harvested, and on Sunday he walked,
dressed neatly, between the discounts, up and down, cleaned the Rosenbueschen
or band of fine cloves and wallflowers even carved chopsticks.

We lived united and happy, and my business rose more and more. About my marriage had our good city
for a few weeks, come vividly, but since almost all over the folly of my actions were agreed and the
talks as the thriving food the contradiction was withheld, it was soon starving yourself.

When it was winter again, Father Joseph brought on Sundays again the puppets out of her crate
down, and I'm no different than that in such a quiet exchange the employment it would go well
in future, the years. Then he went one morning with even serious face to me in the living room
where I was just alone with my breakfast sat. "Son," he said after he laid down as a couple of
times by hand through his white hair skewers had gone, "but I can nit's probably a fair length,
I all because so my bread on your table to eat.

"

I did not know where this should also, but I asked him how he came to such thoughts; yes it creates in the
workshop, and if my business now yield a bigger profit, It said that much of the interest of his
own fortune, which he at our wedding morning have put in my hand.

He shook his head. The rich not everything, but just that little fortune he had to Part once
played in our city, the theater is still there, and I have the pieces it all still in my head.

Then
I noticed's because well, the old puppet master left him no peace, and his friend, the good
Heinrich enough for him not as an audience, he had once again publicly before the assembled People
drove into its pieces.

I tried to dissuade him, but he always came back on again. I spoke with Lisei, and in the end
we could not help him to yield. Most of all certainly had the old Man seen when Lisei still our
marriage, the role of women speaking in his plays would have, but we had agreed not to understand
its meaning aiming references; for the wife of a citizen and master craftsman would be befitting
for the not yet.

Luckily - or, as you will, to the accident - was now a very reputable woman in the city that
had once served in a theater troupe as a prompter and therefore not in such matters was inexperienced.
This - Kroepel-Lies they called the people because of their cross lameness - went immediately to
our offer, and soon developed in the evening and little room on Sunday afternoons, the liveliest
activity in Joseph's father. While carpentered before a window of the old Henry the Gerueststuecken
the theater was, before the other between freshly painted scenes
that hung from the ceiling, the old puppeteer and drill with Kroepel-Lies
a scene after another.

You is a spiced three women, he always assured by such sample, not even the Lisei got it got
it so quickly, would only nit with the singing it does so beautiful, they grunt with her voice
always in the depth, which for this lovely Susan, to sing the song
did, was not just harmony.

Finally the day of the performance was fixed. Every effort should reputable as possible before
to go, not to the shooting, but in the council chamber, where the first form Michaelis talked
to her Redeuebungen, should now be the scene, and when on Saturday afternoons our good citizens
of their fresh Wochenblaettchen unfolded jumped them in broad Letters the advertisement in the
eyes:

"Tomorrow, Sunday night on the town hall clock sieben Puppet Theater of the Joseph Mechanicus
Tendler hieselbst. The beautiful Susanna, play with songs in four lifts. "

It was at that time in our city is no longer the innocent bystanders
from my youth Childhood and the times of the Cossack winter were in
between, and in particular was among the Craft apprentices a gross
licentiousness torn, and the former lover in the Dignitaries but had
their minds on other things now.

Nevertheless, perhaps everything would be gone well, had not only the black Schmidt and his
boys have been. "I asked Paulsen, who it was because I had never heard of such a person in our
city.

"I think so," replied he, "Schmidt is in the black years ago poorhouse died, but at that time
he was a master, like me, not awkward, but his Lueders Work as in
life, the economical merit of the day was in the evening drinking
and playing cards wasted.

Even against my father, he had had a hatred, not only because its
customers which far exceeded his own, but even in her youth, where
he its by apprentice have been driven away, and because of a bad prank
on him by the master was. Since the summer he had found an opportunity,
they dislike more positively to me too extend, for in the then newly
established Kattunfabrik here too, despite his zealous Striving for
the same, the work on the machines have been transferred to me alone,
as a result he and his two sons who were with the father in this work
and of desert driving possibly outbid had not already missed me their
displeasure by all sorts of teasing be made known. However, now I
had not thought of these people.

So the evening of the performance
had arrived. I had to sort of my books and have what happened, only
later learned from my wife and Henry, who also went with our father
in the council chamber.

The first place was there was almost no idea
of ​​the second manned only moderately, on the gallery but it had
been neck and neck .-- When they started before this audience the
game was Initially, everything proceeded in the order, the old Lizzie
had their part and without fixed Kick-off talks executed .-- But then
came the most wretched song! She tried in vain to their to give voice
a soft sound, as Father Joseph had said earlier that she grunted really
in depth. Suddenly a voice shouted from the gallery: "Hoeger up, Kroepel
Hoeger-Lies! up! " And when they, obedient to this call, sought to
climb the unreachable Diskanttoene, as a rapturous laughter echoed
through the hall.

Playing on the stage stopped and called out the
scenes between the trembling voice the old puppet master: "My Herrschaft'n,
i beg to g'wogentlich alone!" Punch, which he just at its wires in
the hand held and with the beautiful Susanna had a scene jerked convulsively
with its ornate nose.

New laughter was the answer. "Punch should
sing !"--" Russian! Schöne Minka, I must Hurrah for divorce !"--"
Punch nothing but !"--"; Punch his' daughter to sing !"--" Yes, you
wipe your tongue! Has become the mistress who's doing never stop!
"

How it went through each other for a while. Suddenly, flew in wohlgezieltem
throw, a great Paving stone on the stage. He had hit the wires of
the puppet, the figure slipped from the hand of their master, and
fell to the ground.

Father Joseph had not hold anymore. He wanted to go home Traveling
to die.

Flowering of the health and strength he now stood before them. Never again should they him to
believe it. Never again should they ask him jokingly, when he had last seen his own knees;
never again should they want his cheeks to skittles. The evil it has already determined in
liver and lung.

It was grinding and gnawing. For a long time he had felt it. His Days were numbered.

May the Cavaliers Ekeby the dead keep in faithful memory! If she but never forget!

The duty called him. At home his mother sat and waited for him. Seventeen
years had she expected him home from Ekeby.

Now she had written and called him home, and He wanted to obey. He knew that it would be his
death, but as a good son he wanted to obey.

Oh, the divine feasts! These beautiful corridors, the proud mountain torrent! Oh, the cheering
Fairy tale, the beloved cavalier wings! O violin and French horn, my life full of happiness
and joy! to part of all this was death.

And then Patron Julius out into the kitchen and told the people in the house good-bye. In overflowing
with emotion, he hugged and kissed each one, from the housekeeper to the Beggars on the court.
The maids were crying and lamenting his fate.

Such a good and cheerful Lord should die, they should never see him again!

Patron Julius commanded that his gig pushed out of the carriage house and from his horse the
stable should be drawn. What would say the old Kajsa to uphill and hügelab to trot after a seventeen-year
lull before the filled crib?

The voice was about to fail Patron Julius when he issued these commands. Should not rot because
the gig at rest on Ekeby, it should because the old Kajsa from the known Mangers have to be separated.
He did not say anything bad about his mother, but she had to think of the old and Kajsa to the
gig, although not thought of him. How should to survive the long journey?

Was the most bitter but the parting of the pensioners. The small round Patron Julius, whose figure
was more impressed then scroll to leave, and felt up to the tragic
His fingertips.

He thought of the great Athenian, the quiet cup of poison among his Students emptied. He thought of the
old King Gustav, who predicted the Swedish people, that it would do once, you want to dig him
out from his grave.

Finally, he sang his most beautiful song in front of them. He thought of the swan that died in
the singing. He wished that they want to remember him: a royal spirit, which to no action can
be reduced, but home runs on the wings of sound.

Finally, the last cup was emptied, was the last song sung, replacing the last embrace. He put on
his coat and took the whip in his hand. No eye remained dry all around. His own eyes were veiled
by the dim mist of sorrow that he had nothing could differ.

As the Cavaliers took him and carried him down sedan-chair. Cheering him umdonnerten. She sat
down somewhere, he did not see where. A whip cracked, the car sat with him in motion. He went
on. When he regained the use of his eyes, he was out on the road.

Probably had the Cavaliers cried and were deeply moved by sadness,
but had the grief but not all joyous feelings of the heart choked
with them.

One of them - it was Gösta Berling, the poet, or Beer Creutz, the Rabougespieler, the old man of
war, or weary of life Cousin Christopher? - It was set up so that the old Kajsa not from their
stable and not the moth-eaten car pulled out of his shed to be needed. You had a big, white checkered
oxen harnessed to a hay wagon, and after the red Box, the green Lägel and carved storage boxes
were placed on the car, was Finally Patron Julius himself, whose eyes were blinded by tears, not
to the stock box set or on the box, but on the back of the checkered white oxen.

You see, it is man, too weak to respond to the suffering in all its bitterness! O friends, certainly
lamented the Cavaliers this friend who went away to die, this fading Lily, this dying swan
singing, and yet made it easier for the anguish of her heart, when they saw him so pull from
there, riding on the back of the great oxen, while his fat body was shaking from the sobbing,
his arms spread out in a last embrace, lowered in despair, and his eyes were looking at a strict
justice heaven.

Out there on the highway returned to the patron Julius clouded the senses, and he noticed that
he was sitting on the rocking back of an animal.

And there, they say, began he ponder all that can happen in seventeen
years.

     The old Kajsa
     was changed remarkably.
     Oats had the crib and
     the clover fields on Ekeby succeeded
     so much?

And he said - I do not know if the stones on the road or the birds in the bushes heard it - Is
true, but that he called, "The devil frikassieren me if I do not think that you have got horns,
Kajsa! "

     After he had pondered a while, he let himself gently down from the
back of the ox, climbed into the hay wagon, sat on the storage box
and drove deep in thought; further.

Soon after, near Broby, he heard singing bars to:

"One, two, Only always! Slippers and shoes. The Wermlandjäger brought
thither! One two, one two!

"

So it sounded to him, but there were no hunters, it was the cheerful young lady from Berga and
some of the beautiful daughters of the mayor of Munkerud therefore
came of the road.

You had their small supply bag suspended on long poles, as they shouldered a rifle, and then
subjected to brave the summer heat and sang clock set:

"One, two, only too!"

"Where does the journey, Patron Julius," she cried when she met him, without looking at the clouds
to ensure the care, eye makeup to his face.

"I pull away from the house of sin and vanity," said Patron Julius.

"I do not spend more time underground thieves and wrongdoers. I'm going home to my mother.
"

"Oh," she cried, "that's not true! Patron Julius can not Ekeby leave! "

"Yes," he said and slammed his clenched hand on the clothes chest. "How Loth of Sodom and Gomorrah,
I flee from Ekeby. Now there are not a just more. But if the earth opens up under them, when
fire and brimstone raining down from heaven, I will grateful for
God's righteous justice.

Farewell, little girl! Beware Ekeby! "

He wanted to go, but so were the cheerful girl not agree. You Their intention was to climb the
rock thunder. But the road was long, and they had probably Pleasure to drive in Julius' hay wagon to
the foot of the mountain. Happy is he who is on the sunshine to look forward to life and requires
no pumpkin plant to its peak to ! Shade In two minutes, the young girl had enforced their will.
Patron Julius turned around and drove it up to the thunder rocks. Smiling, he sat on the storage
box while The young girl filled the hay wagon. Along the roadside grew winds and chamomile and
cloves pitch. The ox had from time to time to rest awhile, then rose from the young girl and
picked Flowers. Soon colorful wreaths hung at Julius' head and around the horns of the ox.

A little further on they came to light, young birches and dark alder bushes. As they grew from
the car and broke off branches to get him to decorate it. Soon he was looking like a migratory
forest. So it went all day with games and merriment.

The further preliminary step of the day, so gentle and mild patron was Julius. He treats the
young girls from his supply box and sang songs to them. When she appeared at the top of the
Thunder rock stood, the vast landscape so proud and fair among them - that felt Julius his heart pounding
powerful, the words flowed from his lips to him, and he talked about his beloved country:

"Oh,
Wermland," he said, "you beautiful, you beautiful country! Often when I am up on a map I saw
before me, I've been thinking about what you really imagine, but Now I understand what you
are.

You're an old, pious hermit, with his legs crossed, hands in his lap, still sitting there, dreaming.
You have a stocking cap over your half-closed Eyes drawn. You are a dreamer, a holy dreamer, and
you are wonderfully beautiful. Large Forests are your clothes. Long ribbons of blue water and
straight rows of blue mountains gloss over it. You are so natural that the stranger does not
see how beautiful you are. You poverty, want to have the pious. Motionless, you sit there while
the waves Wenersees of your feet and your legs crossed bathe.

To the left spread your Ore deposits and your pits.

This is your heart beating. To the north lie the dark, beautiful Meadows of loneliness, of
mystery. This is your dreaming head.

"If I see you, you old, serious giant, so my eyes fill with tears. You are strict in your beauty,
you're prayer, poverty, austerity, and yet I see the middle in the
soft features of the severity of your gentleness.

I see you pray and you. I see only into the deep forest, only touched
a corner of your robe me, find my soul Healing.

Hour after hour, year after year, I looked into your holy face. What Puzzles you can not hide
under the drooping eyelids, thou god of renunciation?

Have you solved the riddle of life or death, or brooding to you, holy, thou giant Same? For
me you are the guardians of serious, big thoughts. But I'm looking at you and people around
swarm up, beings who have never had the sovereignty of the gravity felt on your forehead. You see
only the beauty of your face and your members and let them be deceived, so that they forget everything.

"Woe,
woe to us all, our children Wermland! Beauty, beauty, and not require
further we from life!

We, children of renunciation, of the seriousness of poverty raise our hands in a one long prayer,
and this desire only good: beauty! May life be like a Rose bush, with blossoms of love, wine and
pleasure, and like his roses to every reachable be! Behold, this we do, and our country has the
features of severity, the seriousness of the Renunciation. Our country is the eternal symbol
of the brooding, but we have no idea.

Oh Wermland, you beautiful, you beautiful country!

"

He spoke with tears in his eyes and with a voice that quivered with excitement. The young girl
listened to him in wonder, but not without emotion. Little they guessed the Depth of feeling,
which was hidden under this surface, the glistening of jokes and laughter.

As the evening drew near and they went back on the hay wagon, the girls hardly knew where Patron
Julius had driven it before they stopped at the stairs of Ekeby.

"Now we want to go in and do a little dance, you little girl! Said" Patron Julius.

What said the cavaliers, as they saw brought thither Patron Julius, a withered wreath around the
hat and the car full of young girls?

"Did we wirs however, that the young girls would be taken off with him," she said, "otherwise we
would have had him here before hours later, "For the pensioners remembered very well that that is
exactly the seventeenth time was that Patron Julius had made an attempt Ekeby to leave, - regularly
once every year. Patron Julius now had both the experiment and forget everything else. His
conscience was asleep again its one-year sleep.

He was a rare man, this Patron Julius. He was easy in dance merrily at the table. Spring and
violin bow to him were equally easy to hold.

He had a heart easily movable and beautiful words in the mouth, his mouth was full of songs.
But what he would have all this benefited if he had not had a conscience
that made only once a year, been in contact, like those mayflies that
emerge from the dark depths and spread its wings, to live only a few
hours in daylight and sunshine.

The clay Saints

The church is Svartsjö inside and white on the outside, the walls are white, the pulpit, Benches,
the Pulpitur, ceiling, window sills, the altar cloth - everything is white. In the Svartsjöer Church
is not jewelry, there are no pictures, no coats of arms. Above the altar is only a wooden cross
with a white linen cloth.

It was different. There was the ceiling full of paintings, there was a variety of colorful characters
from stone and clay in this house of God.

Once, many years ago one summer day, an artist had been standing in Svartsjö and watched the
train of the clouds after the sun. He had the white, shimmering clouds the morning down on the
horizon to see pile up higher and higher, he had all the the floating giants are getting bigger
and bigger and stormed up to the high view. They stressed the sail like ships. They raised their
standards as warriors. They went out to the whole to conquer heaven. The sun, the ruler of
space opposite, they pretended to these growing wonder and took on an entirely innocent form.

For
example, there was a raging lion, which turned into a powdered lady. There was a giant with arms
could crush everything, who laid down like a dreaming sphinx.

Some decorated their nudity with white coats goldverbrämten, others scattered red paint of snow-white
cheeks. There were planes. There were forests. There were laid brick castles with high towers.
The white clouds gained control of the cloudy sky. They filled the whole blue vault. They reached
the sun and hid it.

Oh, how beautiful, thought the pious artist when the yearning spirits sky-high on the Could climb
mountains and they like on a rocking ship higher and higher would
be carried outside.

And suddenly it became clear to him that the white clouds of a summer day, the vehicles where then
subjected to the souls of the blessed.

He looked up there, where they stood on the floating masses of lilies in his hand and golden
crown on his head. The air resounded with their songs. Angel flew on strong broad wings down
to meet them. Oh, what a lot of saints! The more the clouds spread, the more were visible. They
rested on the clouds like white beds Water lilies on a calm lake. They adorned, as the lilies
decorate the box. Welch a jubilant ride up in the air! A cloud after another approach rolled,
and all were they are filled with God's army in silver armor, with immortal singers in purpurverbrämten
coats.

This artist later had the church painted ceiling in the Svartsjöer. There he had the floating
reflect clouds of summer day, let the blessed in the glory of heaven introduced. The hand that
guides the brush, had been strong, but a little stiff, so that the
clouds over his curly hair in a wig adjusted as growing mountains
soft mist.

And just as the Saints were formed before the imagination of the painter, he had been unable
to reproduce it, so he had to the manner of men in long red Coats and stiff mitres or dressed
in caftans with large rigid clerical collar. He had given them big heads and small limbs and
had them with handkerchiefs and Prayer books provided.

Latin maxims them hanging from his mouth, and for which he believed to be the most outstanding,
he had solid wooden chairs placed on the clouds combing so that they could be introduced in
a comfortable sitting position in eternity.

But God and the world knew so, that spirits and angels to the poor artists never shown had,
and wondered why one does not add that he not so nicely out of this world had to make. Some
people, however, had these not the very good master of painting beautiful
place, and they had raised many a holy atmosphere.

She would have earned be seen by our eyes.

But the cavalier years as Count Dohna paint the whole church know. As was the ceiling painting
spoiled. Similarly, all were destroyed clay saints.

Oh, the clay saints!

It would have been better for me if I would have a human need so much
grief can cause, I felt it on their destruction - unless I'm human
cruelty to people with such bitterness could meet, as I tasted it
for their sake.

But just think, there was a St. Olaf with a crown on his helmet, an ax in his hand and a vanquished
giants under the feet, where was the pulpit a Judith in red corset and a blue coat, a sword
in one hand and an hourglass in the other hand - as spare for the head of the Assyrian commander,
there was a mysterious Queen of Sheba with blue Waist and a red skirt, with a goose-foot on one
leg, hands full of Sibylline Books, there was a gray St. Jürgen, who was all alone on a bench
in the choir, because both the horse and the dragon were broken, where was St. Kristoffer verdant
with its Staff and St. Erich with scepter and ax in one leg room,
goldgeblümten coat.

Many a Sunday I sat in the church and Svartsjöer I grieved about it, that the pictures were
gone, and longed for them. I would not be taken as accurate have if they were missing the nose
or the feet, if the gold would be addressed. I would have seen radiant with the glory of the legends.

It
should always be had with these saints that they, or their ears or their scepter her nose had
to be lost, and repaired and dressed up. But the peasants had inflicted no harm to the saints, if
Count Henrik Dohna would not have been. He was then withdraw.

I hated him so, as only a child can hate. I hated him as a poor Fischer an ignorant boy hates
that destroys his net and sent a hole in his boat examined below.

I hated him as a hungry beggar hates the greedy housewife denied him the bread. As I have not gone
hungry and thirsty during the long church services! He had taken away the bread from which to
live my mind. How I longed not for me into infinity, up to the sky! And he had destroyed my car,
had my net torn, with whom I want to catch the holy visions.

In the world of adults is no room for a real hatred. How could I now probably hate such a wretched
creature like that counts Dohna, or such a mad man as Sintram or
such a woman of the world lived like the Countess Marta!

But when I was a kid - yes, because it was lucky for them that they were dead a long time.

The pastor was perhaps in the pulpit and spoke of peace and reconciliation, but his words were
in our place down in the church never heard. Oh, I would had only the old clay saints who
would preach to me well, so that I could hear and understand.

But now I usually sat there and thought about what it was, really, that they robbed and were destroyed.

When
Count Dohna had his marriage can be declared invalid, rather than visit his wife and You agree
to let this aroused a just anger at all, for we knew that Countess
Elisabeth had left his house only to avoid being tortured to death.

It seemed now, as if he regain the grace of God and respect for people with a good deed wanted,
so he could renovate the church Svartsjö. He had the whole Church knows tear down and paint the
ceiling painting. He himself and his servants carried the picture works in a boat and it sank into the
depths of Löfsees.
How dare he but only to lay hands on this massive of the Lord?

That
this crime could happen! - Introduced cut off because the hand that
Holofernes' head had no sword more? Had the Queen of Sheba forget
all their glorious wisdom, more dangerous than a wounded poisonous
arrow? St. Olaf, you old Wiking, St. Jürgen, you old dragon slayer
lives, because the news of your exploits no longer is the halo the
miracles faded? But it behaved well so that no violence against the
Saints this Violent wanted to use. Since the Svartsjöer farmers but
no color for their dresses and no longer wanted to buy gold for their
crown, they found themselves in it, that Count Dohna wore her out
and she sank into the bottomless depths of Löfsees. They were going
to no longer stand and denounce God's house. The poorest, they thought
at the time because they were worshiped with prayers and knee cases!

I
sat and thought about this boat with its load of saints, on a quiet
summer evening in August, then slipped on the polished surface of
the Löfsees. The rower pulled the oars slowly through the water and
threw the odd passengers were lying in the stern, shy glances to,
but Dohna Graf, who was also there, was not afraid. He took them one
after with very own hands and threw it into the water. His forehead
was clear and he took a deep breath. He felt like a champion of pure
evangelical doctrine. And it was no wonder the old saint in his honor.
Still despondent and they sank down into destruction.

But the next
Sunday morning the church was Svartsjöer shimmering white there. No
plaques more disturbed the peace of the inner reflection. Only with
the spiritual eye to the pious the glory of heaven and the holy see
visions. The prayers of People on their own wings up to the highest
reach. They should not be on the Kleidersaum the Saints clinging.

Green
is the earth, the magnificent home of the people, the sky is blue,
the goal of their Longing. The world is illuminated by colors. Why
the church is white? White as the winter naked as poverty, pale as
the fear. They do not shine like the forest of frost in winter. It
does not radiate in pearls and lace, like a white bride. is in a cold,
white distemper the church there, without the statue, without painting.

That
Sunday Dohna Graf sat in a chair decorated with flowers in the choir,
so it all could see and praise. Now he wanted to be honored because
he had the old benches repaired be set because he had destroyed the
statues defamatory, shattered glass in all new Window was set and
the whole church with had distemper, withdraw. He was so free to do
it all. He came now, after he about an hour
had been alone, for with such an overtly face up company which had gathered in a hall of the garden,
back to Danae and Hippias himself could be persuaded to attribute his last kick of a temporary
evil. "Now on amusements amusements followed so close together and so varied, that the overloaded
soul no time remained to give an account of their feelings; and according to the custom of the
country was up all night till the break of dawn in rushing Amusement taken to. The presence of the
lovely Danae labored with all their magical power of our hero, can not prevent that he from time to
time in was a distraction, from which to draw him as soon as they became aware of was to make
efforts. The objects, which had its moral taste Formerly insult were here frequently, as that
is not among the volatile pleasure with which they speak about the surface of his soul hinglitscheten,
a secret feeling of his humiliation his Cheeks with shame to herself, the harbinger of recurrent
virtue staked out, would have should.

This insonderheit met at a dance pantomime, which Hippias his most part by Bacchus glowing Quests still
some time after midnight from slumber to hold was looking for.

The dancer, a beautiful girl, which, despite its youth, has long was initiated into the mysteries
of Cythera, danced the story of Leda. This infamous Master piece of equally consummate as lush dance
of the ancients, whose Wuerkungen Juvenal in his satires of a power of such a licentious painting.
Hippias and most his guests witnessed an immeasurable pleasure about the way his dancer this slippery
history after the voluptuous modulation Zwoer flutes, just by the dumb Language of the motion,
fortzuwinden from scene to scene, to the development .-- knew Zeuxes, Homer and even cried, she
could not better, not more clearly with paint or words, paint as the dancer with their movements.
The women thought enough to have done that they seemed to be on this show are not careful, but
Agathon was the adverse impression which it did on him, and the inner horror with which his
mind was satisfied here, hardly be closed in itself. He wanted to say something actuality,
however, in which the society in which he was placed would have been nauseous, as an embarrassed
look on be yourself, and perhaps laughed at the fear, and the hilarious to Hippias to provoke an over-sharp
revenge, his words choked on his lips, and because it the first words were being said even
hated you blame the item in a forced applause transformed. He now had no rest until he had
persuaded the beautiful Danae, with a from her friends sneak away from a society from which confounded
the Graces wegzufliehen began, and his indignation spilled out while they drove home, in a
sharp condemnation of the corrupt taste of the Sophists, which took so long until they arrived
back at the dawn of the day in the country home of Danae, the pleasures of jaded nature to that
time, which is determined on the business of life, by restore peace and slumber.

CHAPTER FOUR

That dreams do not always foams are

The Stoics, this strict moral order whose departure from the excellent
president Montesquieu regarded as a loss for the human race had, among
other Separation, a great view of the nature and purpose of dreams.

They drove it so far that they gave themselves the trouble to write
such great books just to this matter, than those which the learned
world still have in our days, some monks have the sublime art to examine
the ghosts and ban, has been rewarded.

They shared the dreams in some genera and species showed them to
their secret meanings, gave the key to it, and had no hesitation in
some species of the same very confident attributed to the influence
of those spirits, which they all populated parts of the natural endowments
had.

In fact, they seem in this piece only after a general belief has always been preserved among
all peoples and times, directed, and the one have put in the form of a schlussfoermigen theory,
what a their grandmothers been very uncertain mixture of tradition, imagination and stupidity
of the Spirit would like. Be that as it may, it is certain that we sometimes have dreams in which as
much context as much relationship to our past and the present circumstances, although always with
a small addition of wonderful and incomprehensible, is to be found, that we are inclined to see
those features of the truth, in this latter somewhat mysterious and to seek omens. Dreams of
this nature spirits outside us, or, as the Pythagoreans did attach a certain prophetic power and
divination of our soul, which under the deep slumber of the senses have better freedom to evolve:
So Ingenious Resolution, we have over those who held to those so enthusiastically by Lucretius vaunted
bliss to see the causes of things, get in a full mass than we are. However, we still made
it a rule, not the good advice of our nurse to despise what us, as we enjoyed the happiness of
her insightful education, used Citing a long line of family samples, to exhort earnestly the
warnings and hints of dreams indeed not to be considered for indifferent.

Agathon had this morning after being in a confusion of discordant thoughts and Gemuetsbewegungen
finally fallen asleep, was a dream that we, with some justification to the small causes can count, have
been produced by what big events are. We want tell him as we find it in our deed and leave the
reader what he like want to judge. It seemed to him so that he in a society of nymphs and Liebesgoettern
on a graceful plane to amuse. Danae was among them. Enchantment with smile handed it to him as her Ariadne
Bacchus, a bowl full of nectar, which it in their eyes hanging style hinunterschluerfte with
voluptuous trains. Suddenly everything around him began to dance to: he danced with, a cloud of
sweet scents seemed around him the true shape to hide the things, and a thousand lovely shapes
fluttered in front of his forehead, which entstunden just vanished like soap bubbles as fast
as. In this frenzy danced and hopped He continued for a while, until suddenly the fog disappeared
and his whole merry company: He was as if he awoke from a deep sleep,
and as he opened his eyes, he saw himself at the top of a precipitous
cliff, under which a tearing his current sparkling waves fortwaelzte.

Against him, on the other bank of the river, stood psyche, a snow-white Robe flowed down to her feet, she
was very lonely and sad, and fixed eyes on him, which pierced his heart. Without reflecting
for a moment, he crashed himself down in the river, worked his way over to the other side,
and hurried to his psyche to throw at the feet. But she escaped as a shadow before him, without
being stopped to be visible, her face was sad, and her right hand pointed in the distance, where
he golden towers and the sacred groves of the Delphic temple to distinguish clearly believed.
Tears ran down his cheeks at the sight down, he stretched out his arms, pleading, and oppressed by
indescribable sensations, after the beloved Psyche, but they fled hastily away from him, to a Bildsaeule
of virtue, which, under the rubble of a decayed temple, alone and unharmed, in majestic silence
on an immovable Cubus stood. Psyche embraced this Bildsaeule, threw a profound look at it and
disappeared. Despairing, he wanted to run after her when he was suddenly in a deep mud versenket
saw, and the effort, which he used to work out, it was so strong that he woke up to it.

A stream of tears, erupted in which his heart was bursting, the first of Wuerkung deep impression
that this strange dream in his awakened yet alone their Visions umgebnen soul left behind. He cried
so long and so violently that his Hauptkuessen was quite durchnetzt it. "Oh Psyche Psyche!"
he cried from time to time by clasped his arms stretched out like in their own image, and then
broke a new flood from his bulging eyes. "Where I am," he cried again, and looked around as if
he consternation would be, in a behangnen with Persian tapestries, and shimmering of a thousand treasures
Room at the softest couch to find lying - "O Psyche - which is out of your Agathon been - O
unhappy day that hated me from the robbers your arm "- In such ideas and exclamations he arose,
went into violent motion, up and down, threw himself on the amortization are Ruhbette, and stayed
a long time silent, and staring to the ground Eyes motionless, seemingly lost in thought sitting.
Finally he pulled himself up again, dressed, and got into the gardens down to the most remote
part of the grove, the rest search, which he needed about his dream, his present condition
and the Resolutions that have to take it to think, can. Of all the images, which the dream had
left in his mind did him no more lively than the idea the psyche, as she pointed with a straight
face at the temples and the groves of Delphi - the sacred Oerter, where they first saw each
other, where they so often a sworn eternal love, find so pure they
had loved so virtuous to love how in the dematerialized high Olympus.

These images had something so touching, and the pain which pierced him, was by the most vivid memories
of his bliss Formerly mitigated so gently that He is a kind of pleasure felt by you for the
affectionate nostalgia, of which his Soul was taken there. He compared his condition with that blessed
silence Itziger of the heart, with that ever-smiling serenity of the soul with those gentle and
innocent who delights to be what, his imagination, immortal viewers given their approval: And by
unnoticed, rather than the comparison impartially continue to the creeping Course of his excited
imagination left, it seemed no different, as if his soul after that Elysian rest, as after their
innate elements long to return to. "If it and enthusiasm were, "he exclaimed with a sigh," if
it were mere dreams, in the my halbabgeschiedner, halbvergoetterter spirit swayed - what a blissful
rapture! And how much happier I made these dreams than all the noisy pleasures, which the
senses in a whirl then torn by lust, and when they are gone, nothing but leave behind shame and
remorse, and a melancholy emptiness in the unsatisfied spirit! "

Perhaps our readers from that which then passed in the mind of our hero, Much good prophecy for his
return to virtue. But with regret we have to To admit that an other soul rose in his interiors of which
the Wuerkung this good impulses in again recently made powerless, be it that the voice of
nature or passion, was, or both united, without him off his self-love
again reconciled with itself and the present.

In fact, it was with the animation, which all ideas and Gemuetsbewegungen this strange Human being
characterized, barely possible that the overwrought emotion, which we saw him be, have, would
have a long duration. The strength of his feelings rubbed itself himself from, his imagination used
in such cases so long in a straight run fortzuschiessen until they genoetiget found again to reverse.
He now began to , Talk about that more enthusiasm was as truth and reason in his perplexity, he believed
to find a closer comparison, that his passion for Danae, by the perfection of the article would
gerechtfertiget entirely, and so well to him shortly before the bliss Delphic his life, and
the innocent joys of first love seemed even inexperienced had, so he found it "now insignificant
in comparison with what it the beautiful Danae in her arms had had experience. The mere memory
of it was in his blood Fire, and his soul in rapture, his most strenuous effort of the imagination,
died at a more perfect bliss invent.

Psyche seemed to him "now, so lovable, they might be, determined to do other things to have been,
and to develop the sensitivity of his heart, to make it capable to experience the advantages
of the incomparable Danae. He wrote to a relapse in his Formerly enthusiasm that he was in
a dream, which he and all his strange Nature, but could not hold anything for more than a game
of imagination, in such violent Movements could have been set. The only thing that still troubled
him was the accusation of Infidelity to his once so tenderly loved,
and so tenderly again loving psyche.

Solo not overcome the impossibility of the irresistible Danae to be, (a point of which he so perfectly
as from his own existence believed to be convinced.) Loss all hope to find psyche ever again (which
he, without more detailed investigation, for identified accepted;) both seemed to be against
this accusation of great weight, and to get rid of it altogether, he fell at last she had
the idea that his Related to psyche more the love of a brother to a sister, a mere love of
Souls, as was that which should be in the proper sense genennt love, a Discovery by him in comparison
of the symptoms of these two kinds of love, incontrovertibly seemed to be. These ideas gradually
increased, especially in a place where every shadowy eights Arbour, each flower bank, every cave, a witness
genossner bliss was to such a Vivacity that they have a kind of calm in his soul restored, unless otherwise
the delusion of a sick person who imagines to be healthy in the heat of his fever, this Name
can earn. But they are not stopping that, over all that day, an impression of melancholy and
sadness remained in his mind, the images of the psyche and the Virtue, which he had so long been accustomed
to mix up, introduced themselves time and again his eyes, he sought
in vain by removing distractions, they surprised him In his work,
and disturbed him in his pleasures, and he tried to evade them, the
wretched man! and was not aware that this is just a complete proof,
that it does not really stand with him as he tried to persuade himself.

CHAPTER

FIVE

A strong step toward a catastrophe

Danae loved to tender, as that of her silent grief, of a graceful though Duesternheit remain with
the beautiful face of our hero would have spread, undetected, but it is precisely why she was
Shy to him prematurely to the cause of such unexpected to question alteration. It was easy to see
that his heart would have to suffer, but with all Perspicacity which the eyes of love is intrinsically,
but they could not by itself agree to what could be the cause of it. Her first thought was that
it might too far getriebner malicious joke of Hippias would like to have been offensive. Solo
Hippias could have said whatever seemed to her not worthy to make such a deep wound, as they
seemed to see in his heart. The interest of her own soon brought her to another thought, which
they probably would not be able have been if their love is not the vanity would have prevailed,
which is among the most beautiful, the true source of that what they want to give us for love.
"As if his love were beginning to grow cold"; "she said themselves -? cool "heaven if that's possible,
I will soon no longer be loved. "- This idea was too horrible for such a totally captive heart, as that
they can banish it at once would have - how modest makes true love - you which had been used in
all the eyes of their all-conquering Wuerkungen stimulus to see, they knew that under the most
perfect of her sex are not one, from which they ever in the sweet consciousness of its merits
for a moment disturbed would be - in a word - Danae - began to ask, with trembling to himself,
whether they are also lovable was enough to keep the heart of a man so extraordinary in their
bonds? And if same self-love over here on the part of their personal value calmed, so was it
but not without worries that have been something in her demeanor would like, making the Strange
in its way of thinking, or the noble tenderness of his feelings would have offended can be. Had
she not given him too much evidence of their love? They would have him his victory will not
make it harder?

Was it safe to him all the strength of their passion can be seen,
and because of the preservation of his own heart to the utter Dahingebung
to leave of her family - these questions were neither subtle nor as
easy to answer, as many a good thing fancies which you have sworn
an eternal love, and its lowest Kummer is whether you'll be able to
keep her word.

The beautiful Danae knew the importance the same throughout its extent,
and all she could say about it himself, presented Do not be so satisfied
that they had not found for necessary location ensures a moment to
listen in order to translate all their doubts to clear, but otherwise
very convinced that there would not be missing her of funds to help
the discovered evil, it would now also State what it always wanted.

Agathon did not fail, you still on the very day Opportunity to give it.

Melancholy and sadness make the soul gradually relaxed, and soft, they open up all and tender emotions.
This sentence is so true that a thousand love connections in the world have no other source. A
lover loses an object which he worships; He poured out his complaints in the bosom of a friend,
for the irritation he been totally had been indifferent - it regrets, he found easier by the
fact that he is can complain without constraint, and the Beautiful is pleased that she has the
opportunity to to show her good heart: Your compassion touched him, and caught his attention: Once
a female begins to interest as soon as you discover irritation to her, the emotions, which
both are, of love are cheap, they embellish the girlfriend and hide the eyes of your friend: search,
besides, the pain NATURAL way a distraction, and is inclined to hang on to everything that promises
comfort and relief: An inkling new pleasures, the sight of an object that can show such, the
favorable Gemuetsstellung, which one looks the same, on the one hand - the vanity, this great
driving spring of the female Heart, the pleasure, so to speak, a victory over a rival to take
it, by lovable enough to replace their loss, the desire, even their memory obliterate, perhaps,
even the goodness of human nature, and the pleasure to make happy, on the other side - how
much circumstances which unite to unobserved his friend into a lover, and confidant to turn
to the main character of a new novel.

In a Gemuetsverfassung of this type was located Agathon, as Danae, who heard was that he spent
the whole evening in the most remote area of ​​the garden, not hold him back more could visit.
She found him with half his body on a green Bank lie, supported his head, and so scattered
that it was a while before him before he was aware of it. "You are sad, Callias," she said at last,
with an agitated voice, fastened by eyes full of compassionate love for him. "Can I be sad when
I see you? "said Agathon, with a sigh to answer his question which seemed. Danae also gave him no
answer to such a binding compliment, but continued his implied, but with a face full of soul were,
and eyes full of water to see. He sat up and saw it for a while, as if looking into the depths
of her soul wanted. Their hearts seemed to melt away by her looks into each other. "Do you love me Danae
"asked finally Agathon with one of tenderness and melancholy half-choked voice, as he threw an
arm around her, and she continued with watery eyes to see. You silent for a while. "Do I love you
-" Was all that she could say, but the expression the tone in which she said it would have, by all
the eloquence of Demosthenes are not replaced . Can "Oh, Dana!" (Agathon replied) "I ask not because
I question - Can I get a Assure you, from which depends the happiness of my life, too many of
these beloved Lips received? If you loved me - if you could stop me to love - "" What for
thought, my dear Callias "she interrupted him:" How miserable I would
be if you'd find it in your heart - if you said this, that a love
like ours stop do?

"-. uebelverhehlter A sigh was all he could reply," You are sad, Callias, "she continued," a secret
sorrow bursts forth from all your trains - you understand no, no, do not you understand what
I suffer to see you sad, not the cause of it to know. If my property if my love if my life is
self sufficiency, to remove them from you, my beloved, oh! Sun verzoegre a moment, your inner self
catch up with me - "The expression, the looks, the tone of voice, which she said this, moved
up to the soulful Agathon speechless rapture. He overcame his arms around her, printed his
face on her throbbing breast, and could talk a long time only by the tears, which he bathed.

Nothing
is more contagious differently than the affect of a deliquescent sensation in mind. Danae, without
To know the cause of all these movements, was so deeply touched by the state in which she saw
her lover that she just as speechless as he himself, with sympathetic tears his family mingled.
This scene, which for the indifferent reader is not so interesting may be, than it was for our lovers,
it took quite a while. Finally summarized to Agathon and said in one of these affectionate effusions of the
soul, to which has no part in the consideration, and which one has no other intention than a full
heart to facilitate, "I love you too much, unparalleled Danae, and feel very much that I you
can not love enough for you to hide any longer who is this Callias, whom you, without knowing him,
you respected worthy of your heart.
 Go now! "

But are the people stayed.

The major's wife turned to Marianne. "I know that you love," she said, "you act in Madness of love.
May never come the day when you have to watch helplessly as your
home destroyed!

Would you always retain control over your tongue and your hand, if Anger fills your soul! "

"But
come now, dear children, is now," she went on turning to the people. "Now must protect Ekeby
God, I go to my mother. Oh, Marianne, if you have your mind again and get Ekeby is destroyed
and sighs the country in need, then think of what you have been done
overnight, and take up the poor people!

"

And then they went, and people gave her an escort.

When the Major came into the yard, he found no living soul beside Marianne and a long Number
of wagons and horses, a long, sad series where cars and horse and
owner all slightly equal, all were equally taken from life.

Marianne went around and replaced the bound. They bit their lips together and looked after the
page. They were ashamed as never before. A greater insult was never done to them.

"I did not fare any better than I was a few hours on the stairs on their knees," said Marianne.

And
then, dear reader, what are TOOK PLACE that night, how the old fellow again in the shed, the
horse in the stable, and the Cavaliers were in the cavalier wing,
the to tell it I'll let me.

The morning began on the mountains to show in the east, and the day dawned with clarity and peace.
How much are peaceful not the bright, sunny days as the dark nights, sheltered under the wings
the predators chase the owls and screaming.

I will only say that when the Cavaliers were back inside and got in
the punch bowl found some drops had, they could fill their glasses,
they have a sudden Enthusiasm came over.

"The major's wife should live, hurray high," she cried.

She was a woman without equal! What they could probably ask better
than to serve her and worship.

Was not it sad that the devil had gained power over them, and that
all their costumes it went out to send the souls of the Cavaliers
to hell!

The big bear on the Gurlita Mountains

In the darkness of the forest live without peace animals whose jaws with eerie shimmering Teeth
are armed, and share the feet sharp claws, the longing to be in bogged down a blood-filled throat,
and light up their eyes to murder.

The home of those wolves that come to light at night and behind the
slide of the farmers , Chasing until the mother has to take the little
child she holds in her lap, and they throws to save her own and her
husband's life.

There lives the lynx, the farmer called the "Göpa," since in the forest
it is dangerous to him by his right to name names.

Who has called him the day has to look good in the evening that the doors and the hatches of
the sheepfold are insured, otherwise it comes. He climbs on the steep Wall up, because his claws
are as sharp steel hook, sneaks through the narrowest Falls and of course the sheep. And the
Göpa clings to her throat and drink blood from the jugular vein and murder and tears until the
last sheep is killed. He does not stops in his wild dance of death among the frightened animals,
as long as one of gives them a sign of life. And in the morning the farmer finds dead sheep
all, with torn throats lie, because the Göpa leaves no living where
he lives.

Lives there, the owl that cries in the dawn. You cross
again, it comes to their broad wings and a herabgesaust peck one's
eyes, for it is not real bird, but a bewitched mind. 

And there dwells
the most terrible of them all, bears, a strength of twelve men and
who, if he is a "Mannbär become" only be killed with a silver bullet
can. Can probably something an animal to the extent an aura of fear
surrounded, as so that it can only be killed with a silver bullet?
What terrible secret for Power lies within him and make him so hard
that ordinary lead hosting anything? Must the children do not lie
awake for hours and, against this horrible animal frighten the evil
forces protect them? The U. of workers in the agricultural and forestry economy differs from that for
industrial workers from more than once. Due to provincial legislation, the compulsory insurance
also be extended to entrepreneurs. Which is to be granted as compensation for non-pension the
last annual earnings of the injured, but land on the average earnings measured and forestry workers
at places of employment. The pension may, if the conventional wage was paid in whole or in
part in kind, also in this Form may be granted. In the first 13 weeks after an accident occurs,
the community, provided health insurance is not produced, to cover the cost of the therapy.
The insurance carried by trade associations, which form for local districts are. - Except in Germany,
there is still a special accident insurance legislation in England (Act of 7 Sept. 1880), amended
in Switzerland (Act of 25 June 1881, by Act of 26 April 1887) and Austria (the Act of December
28, 1887). Under Austrian law are subject to insurance companies anywhere near the same as under
the German Act of 1884, it essentially covers the industrial business enterprise. The Insurance
contributions are one of the insurance company to be drawn up, state- dimensioned to be approved
tariff. 10 per cent fall the same insured, 90 per cent of the entrepreneurs of insurable operational
burden.
 The speechless Intoxication
of the first moment verstattet not to make comments, but it lasted but not until I had to feel
needed, that I with a vehemence with which the innocent tenderness of a psyche the strongest
sales, made a thinly veiled and impetuous throbbing bosom was pressured .-- The mind could not be .--
I wanted loswinden me from her arms, but they doubled the strength with which they embraced
me, together with their lustful caresses, and now that I at once with a horror which paralyzed
all my tendons, recognized my mistake, so did the violence, which I apply wanted to pull away
from the mad priest, that we together fell to the ground. I wish from Hochschaetzung of sex, which
in my view, the most amiable Part of creation is that this scene I could erase from my memory
.-- The Aspirations of these most unhappy outraged at last all my spirits into a fury that made
me feel superior to their own anger. I needed all my reason to not all Respect that I was at least
guilty of her sex to put out the eyes. But I do not doubt that every woman-person, which is
still a spark of moral feeling left, would rather die than the accusations and curses, which she
ueberstroemt was outstanding, wanted. You are kruemmete, bursting into tears at my feet .-- This
My sight was intolerable - I wanted to escape, they pursued me, they hung on to and asked me
to give her death. I asked with intensity, giving me my psyche should reflect. These words seemed
to make sense. She explained that the life of this slave in her power was, and about the decision,
which I would assume, slope. She saw the change that made the threat at a time in my whole
being; We both fell silent for a while. Finally she took a softer but no less resolute Tone
for me to reaffirm their previous statement. The jealousy made them so much To say that I got
time to keep it, and finding a less threatening terribly, performance of which I, at least for
the love thought to himself, incapable. I replied So her with a cold blood, which they clip made:
that they at their own risk about life can plan my young friend. But I asked her to To remind me that
even the master of yours, and about what you still prefer should be when life was made. Mine
(I was added animated) listens to at the moment, since psyche is lost for me, for in the God
whose presence this Holy Land met, no human power to stop me, her beloved spirit to follow in a better
world where we are not able to follow the truck, our sacred love to worry - my endurance seemed
to quell the courage of the priest. You I finally said: You saw very well that I was defiant
to the fact that I was in my power have, to ruin it - I could do what I want, but I was assured
be that her mind should answer for every step that would make the I. These Words she departed,
and left me in a state whose abomination, according to the I had the sensation of it, measured out,
went over all expression. I now knew that have found the priestess would have to means to
discover our secret, and that the floral wreath have been a trick of their invention was. After
this was no meanness Evil immensely so that I would have kept this wretch not capable. I got
nothing for myself, but everything for the poor psyche, which I the power of a rival had to be
over, without being able to give me all my tenderness for them the capacity to to free them.
"

CHAPTER FIVE

Agathon entfliehet of Delphi, and finds his father

"After several days in the cruel uncertainty about what happened to my beloved want to be, had
passed, I finally learned from a slave of the Pythia, which their been girlfriend was that she
was no longer in Delphi.

This was all the news I could draw from it, but it was enough to
make me stay at Delphi unbearable.

Now considered 'I never for a moment, I wanted to do.

I stole away in the next Night away, without being concerned about the consequences of such
a rash step, or rather to say, in a mind-state in which I was incapable of some rational consideration
to make. I wandered around for a time in every place where I trace from my friend discover hope,
foolish enough to fancy me, that they tell me, where they also want to be, pass through the magical
power of the sympathy of our souls to turn to. But my hope deceived me, no one could give me the
slightest news of her. Insensitive all the misery that I had to learn on this senseless wandering,
I felt no other pain than the separation from my lover, and the uncertainty about what their
fate was, I would make the insurance that it may go well with her, have happily paid for with
my life. At last me the chance, or a compassionate deity led to Corinth. The sun was just set,
when I read about the hardships of the journey, and a diet, that I not used, was extremely exhausted,
in the courtyard of a magnificent domain of the Landguetern arrived, which beautify the shores
of the Corinthian Sea. I threw myself under a high cypress down and lost myself in the ideas of
the natural, yet in the heat of passion unanticipated consequences of my flight from Delphi.
In fact, my situation was able to knock down the most hearty courage. ejected in a world where
everything was foreign to me, no friends, ignorant as I can get a life, its author did not
even know was - I threw sad eyes around me - the whole Nature seemed to have left me - in the
broad scope of the mother earth, I saw not something I could make a claim as a grave, if I
am the burden of poverty would have finally worn down, and even this I could only by the piety
of any a compassionate Wanderers hope. These melancholy thoughts were the memories my past
bliss, and by the consciousness that I see my misery by not Wickedness of heart or of any wrongdoing
would have earned a dishonorable, even more sensitive made. I saw with traenenvollen eyes around
me as if I look for a being in nature wish the state would go to my heart. At that moment I
found out the campaigns charity Influence of these blissful enthusiasm which nature the most
sensitive part of mortals, nauseous an antidote to which they exposed the weakness of her
heart are, seems to have been. I turned to the immortals, that my soul had stood for so long
in a kind of invisible community. The idea that the witnesses of my life, my thoughts have been
my most secret inclinations, were poured soothing comfort to my wounded heart. I saw my beloved
Psyche under their wings secured. 'No,' I cried, 'the innocent can not be unhappy, nor vice his
intentions quite get! In this majestic universe, in which atoms are spheres and with the same
submissive to the waving of a wise move and campaigns charity might, waer it is nonsense and wickedness,
to be a unnerving about cowardice .-- My life is proof that I have a destiny. - Have I not
think of a soul which can and limbs, of which it is added as a slave to target their thoughts - Bin I
am not a Greek? And if I do not recognize my country will, I am not a Man? Is not the earth
of my country? And I is not the nature an inalienable Law of conservation and each essential
piece of bliss when I mean forces practitioner to perform the duties that connect me with
the world '- shame these thoughts my tears, and set up my heart again. I started to put the resources
I had in my power to put me in better circumstances, and when I make a man of mittlerm age come
to see me, whose reputation and face me at the first sight of confidence and inspires reverence.
I immediately pulled from the ground, and decided with me even to address him, discover him my
circumstances, and auszubitten me his advice. He came before me .-- 'you seem to be tired
from the walk, young stranger, "he said to me; with a tone that he immediately made my heart surge
counter, 'and I up at the economic shadow of my tree I found, I hope you will have the pleasure
to me not refuse to host up that night at my house. 'This man, whom I derived for the master
of the house, which I saw before I saw looked at me with a strange Attention, as I thanked
him for his condescension, and with a frankness, which few of my knowledge of the world begat,
well-known, that I was about to him to seek that which he offering me such a noble nature, after
having a Random in these areas where I know no one got it. I do not know what it my Seemed to take
advantage, my lift at least it could not be, for I had made concern are discovered, my Delphic
Clothing exchanged for a worse, which been worn away on my travels was pretty. He repeated
to me as pleasant it is that I had the chance but he fed as one of his neighbors, and so I followed
him to his house, the spaciousness, detail and superb one owner of a large Wealth and announced
to much taste. The room in which we ceded first was with paintings of the most famous masters,
and with some image columns and breast images of Phidias Alcamenes and ornamented. I love how
you know, the works of the fine arts to to fanaticism, and my long stay in Delphi had given
me some knowledge of it. I admired some pieces and put in others from this or that, calling the artist,
their hand or style, I realized, and took occasion to speak of another masterpiece, which of them
were known to me. I noticed that my host me wonder anew looked, and looked as if he would be affected,
a young man he in a so little promising elevator found lying under a tree, with so much knowledge
of To listen arts of speaking, which commonly only people of rank and fortune in the clay talk
to the experts maintain. After a little while, reported that the evening meal was applied. He
led me to this in a small room, the walls of one of the best students of the Parrhasius with water-colors
were painted cute. We all feedeth alone. The panel, the unit, the up, everything was consistent
with the notion that I had already made something of the flavor and the state of the house-Mr.
Under the Food was a young man of fine reputation and daintily dressed,, and recited a piece
from the Odyssey, with great skill. My landlord told me that he at the table this Nature of
mind and delight the dancers Floetenspielerinnen prefer, which one else entertain at the tables of
the Greeks care. The praise which I attributed to his reader gave a talk to recite about the best
way, and about the Greek poet Occasion, and I gave my hosts and amortization are an opportunity
to trim, and am more alert, and how I seemed to see with a kind of tender-mind movement. He
saw that I saw this, and told me then that I am the wonder with which he me from time to time,
looked less would seem strange if I have the extraordinary resemblance my facial expression
and formation of a person with whom he had known Formerly know; 'But you shall judge for yourself
thereof', he added, and then he started by others to talk things until the wine and the fruits
have been established. Soon after, we spent hours on, and after a while we in a long gallery,
the Corinthian on a double row Columns of colored marble, rested and magnificent Cathedral was
lit up, and were to be expected, led He took me to a cabinet in which a desk, a Buechergestell,
some cushions, and a In life-size paintings on which I was not equal to eight, all the furniture
and ornaments accounted for. He was called to sit down, and after the portrait, which he compared
to depended quite a while, had seen movement, he addressed me thus: 'Your youth, amiable stranger,
the way began our acquaintance, the properties I discovered in that short time to you, and the
affection I have for my heart you think, justify my desire, of your name, and the circumstances
of benachrichtiget to be that you removed in such an age of your home and outside in this Areas
may have resulted. It is not usually my habit to me at first sight for anyone to take. But
when I see it have a secret of your charm me moved against you can not resist, and you've got
in these few hours my hasty Gerechtfertiget inclination so much that I myself wish you luck, if
your ears to have. So satisfy my desire, and be assured that the hope you might to be able to
be useful, has far greater share of it as an immodest curiosity. You see a friend in me, which you
yourself, despite the short duration of our acquaintance, Explore with all confidence of a long
and good handling may. " I was this address so deeply touched that my eyes filled with tears
- I think that he could read what it said to him, my heart, if I find the same for a while
no words could. Finally I told him that I came from Delphi, that I was brought up there; that
would have me Agathon genennt; that I never can discover who I have to thank life, and that
all I knew about this was that I at an age of four or five years, brought into the temple,
with other boys, which is the service the god of Delphi dedicated, educated, and after I came to several
years in the Priests with an exquisite accommodation viewed, and in everything to bring up a free-born
Greeks would require, had been geuebet. Stratonicus (so called my host) had during that I said
this, strive to keep quiet, his face altered themselves; he wanted to start talking, but seemed
to consider different again and asked me just to tell him why I had to leave Delphi. So naturally
the sincerity of otherwise my heart was, I could but this time about the impossible out scruple
That come to me about my love for Psyche closed mouth. A friend of mine Years, for which I would
have found my heart just so taken, as for the Stratonicus, I would have the depths of my heart
without hesitation open as soon as I would have can assume that he was to understand my feelings playback:
But here I was something back, of which I myself could not specify the cause of right. I pushed
so I escape all the blame on the Pythia of Delphi, giving him sufficient detail as it would allow
my youthful modesty, of the temptations in which she had led my virtue, message was. He seemed
very comfortable with my performance satisfied, and after my narrative up to the moment when I
saw him first, and the one thing I immediately felt for him, continued, and he stood with a
lively Movement, threw his arms around my neck, and said with tears of joy and tenderness in
his eyes: - 'My dearest Agathon, behold, your father - here,' he added, by He turned round
me gently, and pointed to the painting, which I previously turned his back had - 'here in this
picture, look at the mother whose beloved trains me at first sight have stirred in your face education,
and this motion excited that I now for the Voice of nature know. "

You know me too well, lovely Danae to you my feelings at this moment not to fancy vivid than
I could describe it. Such moments are not Descriptiveness, for such pleasures, the language
name, the nature of any pictures and the imagination of even no color .-- The best thing is to
remain silent and the audience his own hearts about to leave. My father looked through my rapture,
which is long Time only by hugs and tears and speechless broken tones of tender emotions, their
nature is capable, able to express, to be doubly happy. The pleasure which he recognized his son for me,
it seemed even back to the happiest moments to put his youth, and awaken memories, where the
sight of me a new Was life.


During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game every day  when the rain permitted
me, and made frequent discoveries in these  walks of something or other to my advantage; particularly,
I found  a kind of wild pigeons, which build, not as wood-pigeons in a tree,  but rather as
house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taking  some young ones, I endeavoured to breed
them up tame, and did so;  but when they grew older they flew away, which perhaps was at first
for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them; however,  I frequently found their
nests, and got their young ones, which  were very good meat. Is
not it his breath that animates the dust? - All actions come back to him and Sign up as belonging
to him, his shadow walks around with a Thousand Faces, where he is looking, he sees only himself
in the mirror of the infinite nature, he should, he may himself ? Punish -

Abdallah. Omar, stop! always new wonders figures stand on a precipice, to frighten me. -

Omar. passed by an unknown power in the world, joins the man on his course not by itself produced,
not thrown his way in life. - He lives and united thousands of plants and animals with his own, his
first being lost entirely, - all layers, from childhood to old age in his shape, in faithful
prints in his Spirit, everything around him and transmogrified forms it different, he even goes
down, and from his diet, his pleasure from the dead objects that surround him, occurs else strange
thing in its place - which is gradually replaced by a new again.

Abdallah. So we are just a hut in the stop off a stranger after another, and they The following
leaves.

Omar. Who is next? - Who is good, who bad? - Should the murderer be punished dagger or his arm,
his heart, his blood? Or the thought that perhaps he was twenty years thought? - His blood that he
was not himself? The thought of walking through a thousand forms,
of a solar dust his way and took the most horrible murders stopped?

Abdallah. Impervious is the tissue that has been swallowed up long ago.

Omar. Own power is denied to us, our will we call our intent is only the Influence of foreign things,
we are only a matter on which foreign forces are visible, a big game from a foreign power ruled,
one is a king, the other as slave there - and all are the same, nothing but wooden signs, although
the king and the knight proud to see the infantry down the right - the game is over - and vice
and virtue ceases to be different. - A vortex rotates around the world, all but the smallest acts
in the grand scheme: the one moment of birth to the following, an action triggers the others before
them, an infinite chain, which stretches around the worlds.

No member can you tear out, without destroying the previous and following, and a general destruction
to effect.

Abdallah. O horrible! - Omar - I shudder - if I just skip this step now " would do - not just
thought this idea - that the world could not be created! -

Omar. Necessary. - Weave a large momentum alive infinity, all the forces and work through each
calculated from eternity, the driving force never exhausted, life flies through all the pulses
of nature and so is the great work the almighty transition. - How
want this little creature, man, are busy opposing eternal laws?

As in his narrow mind the Creator with all his plans hold? Unauthorised work against the universe
and his miserable existence gain or merit? Impotent fighting he is
torn away, one sound fades away in the general harmony.

Both were
silent brooding darkly to himself. Roth flew high over Omar's cheeks,
a new Fire started in his eyes, he took Abdullah's hand vigorously. She sees her Man
with a raised, clenched fist in front of him. Horror and contempt she reads on the fifty faces
before him. She feels that this is the last hour of their power. But they can not help but be
glad that they open from the most beautiful memories of your life allowed to talk.

"He was a man, a wonderful man! Who were you that you were allowed to put up between us? I never
saw his equal. He gave me good fortune, he gave me belongings. Blessed be his memory! "

Since lowering the raised arm of the Major, without strike - now he knows how to punish them.

"Get out," he yells, "Get out of my house!"

They did not move.

The Cavaliers, however, with pale faces are there and stare at each
other.

Now was indeed all in fulfillment of what had prophesied the Black. Now they saw the result that
the contract of the major's wife was not again. If this is true, it is probably also true that
it has more than twenty years Cavaliers sent down to hell, that they also be this trip have
been determined.

Oh, this witch!

"Out with you," repeated the Major. »Erbettle your bread on the highway. You shall do not enjoy
more of his money, you shall not dwell on his property.

Now is it with the major's wife on Ekeby. On the day when you put your foot in my house, propose
I tot up! "

"You drive me away from my home?"

"You have no home! Ekeby mine! "

Since a spirit of fear comes over the major's wife. She draws back to the door, and He follows
on the heels.

"You, who have you been the misfortune of my life," she complains, "You shall now have power,
harming me this? "

"Out, out with you!"

She leans against the doorpost, folds his hands and holds it before his face. She thinks to her
mother, muttering to himself: "Would you be denied, I denied 've
been.

May the road your home, your bed of the ditch, the coal pile your fireplace be. So it should
be done so yet, so it should be done that! "

The good old pastor of Bro and the county judge from Munkerud were now up to the Major and tried
to calm him down. They told him that he does best in, if they all these old stories can be suspended
if he left all the old, forgotten and forgiven. But he shakes his soft hands on his shoulders.
It is dangerous to him close, as earlier Christian Bergh.

"That's not an old story," he exclaims. "I've known to this day nothing. I have the adulteress
not been able to punish. "

At this word the major's head is directed into the air, their old courage returns.

"Thou shalt before me out of the house! Do you think I'll soft, "she said. And they steps back
from the door.

The Major does not respond, but he followed every one of their movements
with his eyes, ready strike, if he can not otherwise go.

"Help me, my good gentlemen," she exclaims, "so we can stop the man and also create, until
he has regained his reason! Considering who he is and who I am! Considering this, I must give
way before him! I manage the whole economy Ekeby, and he spends all Day in the bear pit, feeding
the bears. Help me, good friends and neighbors! Here is a misery caused unprecedented, if I am
no longer here.

The farmer has his food and shelter from the fact that he gave me wood in the forest is that
he is a bronze for me. The Keller lives by giving me coal creates, and the rafters from the fact
that he downstream my wood out. I share all of this wohlstandverbreitende
work.

Do you think that because of my work can be maintained?

I tell you, if you continue chasing me, you open the door of the famine! "

Once again, raised a lot of hands to help the major's wife, again lie mild Hands persuasively
on the shoulders of the majors.

"No," he says, "away with you! Who wants to defend the adulteress? I tell you, if they do not
go willingly, I will take it on my arms and carry them down to my bear. "

With these words, the raised hands fall down again.

Since, in their extreme distress, the major's wife turns to the Cavaliers.

"Will you also look on quietly, that I am expelled from my home, gentlemen?

I you can freeze in the winter snow, I have sweet spirits and strong beer failed? I have taken wage
or work of you, because I'll clothing and food were? Were you not safe with me, like children
with their mothers? If not mirth and Joy your daily bread was? Let not this man, who the misfortune
of my life been, chase me out of my home, Cavaliers! Let me not to the beggar on the Road are.
"

Gosta Berling bends down to a beautiful, dark-haired girl in the big Table has been sitting.
"You test traffic five years ago, many on Borg, Anna," he says. "You know, whether the major's
wife Ebba told that I am a deposed priest? "

"Most of the major's wife, Gosta," she answered him.

"You will understand that I must first have clarity about whether it has made me a murderer."

"Oh,
Gosta, what are these thoughts! So you help it! "

"I tell, I do not answer you want. Then Sintram but has spoken the truth. "And Gösta goes back
to the pensioners. He touched a finger to help the major's wife.

Ah, but the major's wife, the Cavaliers had not sat down at a table in the corner! Now the
thoughts of the night in their brains are awake, now sparkles in
their eyes Anger, which is not lower than that of the majors.

Must not everything they see nightly Face confirm?

"It is well to remember that her contract was not renewed," they mumble.

No, this grumbling, menacing gentleman host the major's wife should expect no help.

It differs because back to the door and raises his clasped hands to her face.

"May you be denied, as I've been denied," she calls herself in bitter To pain. be "May the road your
home, your bed, the trench!"

Then she puts one hand on the door lock, the other lifts but high in the air, "Merkt it to you,
you who let me fall you now! Noted it to you that your hour come very soon is. Now you will
distract you, and your place will be empty. As you will be can, if I do not support you? You,
Melchior Sinclaire, you were a heavy hand and who feel they can be your own, take care! You,
a pastor at Broby, now comes the punishment! You, Mrs. Uggla, watch out come to your house,
the poverty!

You young, beautiful women, Elisabeth Dohna, Marianne Sinclaire, Anna Stjarnhok, does not believe
that I remain the only one of her house has to flee! And you, gentlemen, you take care, now a
storm is over Land taken. You will be swept away from the earth, now is your time to! I accuse
not for my sake, but for your sake, because the storm will go over your heads, and who is able to
stand, if I fell? Oh, my heart bleeds for the poor, miserable people sake! Who will make them
work when I am gone? "

The major's wife opens the door, but as Captain Christian lifts his head up, and says: "How long
am I supposed to lie at your feet, Margarete Celsing? Will you not forgive me can get up on that
and I fight for you? "

Since the major's wife is fighting a hard battle with himself, but she sees that, if they forgive
him, rise up and fight with her husband, and in that the man You're Hit Forty years has faithfully
loved, must be a murderer.

"Shall I now forgive," she says. "Are you not guilty of all my misfortunes, Christian Bergh? Return
to the Cavaliers and look up your work! "

And so that was the major's wife.

She went alone, but she was horror in its wake.

You fell, but even in their humiliation she was not without grandeur.

She made no effeminate Back pain, but at the age they cheered on their young love. She took no
action, no cowardly tears back as she understood it all, they did
not shrink, with the Beggars and blind to wander through the country.

She pitied the poor farmers and the only happy, carefree people on the shores of Löfsees, poor
pensioners, all those they had supported and protected. Abandoned by all she was, and yet they
had the power to her last boyfriend to be dismissed in order not
to make him a murderer.

A remarkable woman she was great in their power and their thirst for action. Their peers are
We so easily never see again.

The next day broke on Major Samzelius of Ekeby and moved to Sjö that very close to the large
iron content. In Altringer Testament, by which the major iron works of the seven get had stood,
with crisp, clear words written that nothing sells like this or should not be given away, but
that everything after the death of the majors on his wife or should pass to their heirs. Since he
will not waste so the hateful legacy could put He also masters the
pensioners as one, in the belief that he and the other by Ekeby six
possessions of the worst damage.

Since no one in the country doubted that the evil Sintram executed
the commands of Satan, and since all he had promised them, had gone
so brilliantly realized, so were the pensioners convinced that the
contract would be fulfilled point by point, and they were determined
throughout the year is not wise or useful or villainous to do, and
they were quite convinced of this that the major's wife was a wicked
witch, her I wanted to ruin.

The old Eberhard, the philosopher, made fun of this view, but who
took care of all the one who was so hardened in his belief that, even
if the middle Located in the flames of hell and all hell would have
to be standing around and laugh at him see, but would have claimed
that they did not exist, because they could not exist.

For Eberhard was a great philosopher.

Gosta Berling told no one what he believed. The thing is, he felt that he was the Majorin owe
no gratitude, because she had made him a knight on Ekeby he believed
It would have been better for him to be dead than to carry around
with the knowledge to blame to Ebba Dohna to his suicide.

He did not raise a hand to get back at the major's wife, but not to, to help her. He could not.

The
Cavaliers, however, had come to power and great glory. Christmas with his Feasts and diversions
was approaching, the hearts of the cavaliers were full of joy, and what sorrow also Gosta
Berling's heart might oppress, it was not him on the face or on the lips.

Gosta Berling, the Poet

It was Christmas, and on credit should be a ball.

About this time lived a young count Dohna on credit, he was newly married and had a young, beautiful
wife. It should already fro fun in the old Castle of the Counts!

Even after Ekeby an invitation had come, but it turned out that all those which this year celebrated
Christmas there, Gosta Berling, "the poet," as they called him, was the only one who felt the
urge, to go to Borg.

Borg and Ekeby are both on the long Löfsee, but each on its banks.

If the lake does not frozen, so it is a journey of two miles of Ekeby up to Borg.

The poor Gosta Berling was fitted to the celebration of the old masters when he was a King's
son, who is responsible for the honor of a kingdom. What was new was the coat with the bare
Stiff buttons, the Jabot, and shiny patent leather shoes were. He got a fur coat at its best
Beaver fur and a sable cap on his blond, curly hair. They spread a bearskin with silver claws on
the horse carriage and sleigh spanned the black Don Juan, the Proud of the barn before. He whistled
his white Tancred and seized the reins braided.

Jubilantly, as he went by, surrounded by the splendor of wealth and glory, he who already ohnedem
sufficiently radiated in the physical beauty and the large, shiny spiritual gifts.

He drove in the early morning. It was Sunday, and he heard the sound of singing from church
Broer, as he drove past it. Then he took the solitary path which led to Berga, where Captain
Uggla was then living, and where he intended to stay for lunch.

Berga was not a rich man's home.

The hunger knew the way to the captain's grassodengedecktem Home, but he was received with jokes,
talking, singing and playing like other guests and did not like like her.

The old maid Ulrika Dillner who headed the kitchen and the weaving was called to Berga, Gosta
Berling on the stairs welcome.

She curtsied, and the fake curls to it in the brown Face with a thousand wrinkles hung dancing
for joy.

She led him into the hall and began to speak of the inhabitants of the goods and the unsafe conditions.

Grief
and worry were facing the door, she said, hard times prevailed at
Berga.

They would not even horseradish to the salted meat at lunch, but Ferdinand and the girls Disa
had presented a sleigh and had gone to Munkerud to be a little too Pushed forward. The captain
had gone back into the forest and would probably be a tough rabbit home, which requires more
butter for frying, than he was worth. He call for food House create.

That would still at best if he not only with a miserable fox came, the most miserable animal that
created the good Lord, just useless, he may now dead or be alive!

And the lady - yes, that was not yet risen. She was lying in bed reading
novels, as they used to do every day.

She was not made to work, these angels of innocence!

No, that was left to the old, grizzled in the service, just as she
was.

Day and night was one of the legs to hold only the scraps. And that was not so easy. For a whole
winter, they had truly had no other meat dishes in the house, as a single bear ham. And she did not
expect a great reward, so far they had not the least seen it, but
one would probably not even on the road , To throw out once they could
no longer work for daily bread.

Here in the home looked If the housekeeper as a person and would
have an honest old Ulrika funeral , Treat if there is enough money
to buy a coffin.

"For who knows how to be there," she cried, driving with her apron over her eyes, the ever so easily
passed over. "We're the evil landlord Sintram owe money, and he can We take everything. Well Ferdinand
is engaged to the rich Stjarnhok Anna, but she will his weary, they will weary of it. And
what will become of us with our our three cows and nine horses, with
our cheerful young lady, from a ball want to go to the other, with
our arid fields where nothing is growing, with our good Ferdinand
the man will never in my life!

What will become of this whole house, where everything flourishes, except the work! "

But it was noon, and residents gathered. The good Ferdinand, the gentle Son of the house and the
cheerful daughters came home with the borrowed horseradish. The Captain arrived, refreshed
by a bath in the lake and a Wake by hunting in the forest. He tore the Window to get fresh air,
and handed Gösta hands with warm pressure. And the lady came in a silk dress with wide lace over
the white hands that they Gösta graciously handed to kiss. All Gösta welcomed with cheers, laughter
and jokes came in the Circle into flying. Fröhlich was asked: "How do you live for on Ekeby how
it looks in the promised land?

"

"There is flowing milk and honey," he said. "We emptied the mountains and fill all the iron our
cellar with wine. The fields take gold, so we gild the misery of life, and we make our forests
to build bowling alleys and pleasure houses.

"

Mrs. Uggla but sighed and smiled at the answer, her lips a single soars Word "poet"!

"Many sins I have on my conscience," said Gosta, "but I never have
a line of poetry written.

"

"You're still a poet, Gosta, the nickname have you been away again.

You have more poems experienced, as our poets have written. "

Later Mrs. Uggla said, smooth as a mother to him about his wasted
life.

"I will "Experience is certainly to see you mature into a man, she said. And it seemed to him sweet,
can propel this gentle woman who was such a loyal friend and burned their strong, fanatical heart
with love for great deeds.

But when they finished the meal and the lively horseradish meat and cabbage and the waffles
had eaten and drunk the Christmas beer as Gösta them through his
stories of had brought the major and the major's wife and the pastor
Broby to cry and laugh, heard you suddenly bells in the yard, and
immediately joined the evil Sintram in with them.

He beamed with delight from his bald head, down to the long, wide feet.

He swung his long arms and made faces, one could see him at first Look at that he came as a carrier
of bad news.

"Have you heard?" Asked the bad guy, "you've already heard that Anna and the Stjarnhok rich Dahlberg
today for the first time in the church are mobilized Svartsjöer?

You must forget it have that she is engaged to Ferdinand. "

They had not heard a word of it. They were frightened and sad.

They saw in the spirit already looted her home so that their debt
paid to the bad man could be they saw their beloved horses sold well
and the old furniture, a legacy from the childhood home of the mother.

They saw the end of the happy life with festivals and tours from
ball to ball, the Bears ham would be back on her table, and the boys
had go to other people in the service.

The mother stroked her son tenderly, and let him feel a never-ending
love.

But - as Gosta Berling sat in the middle between them, and the invincible walked a thousand
Plans through the head.

"What!" He cried, "yet there is no time for whining.

The pastor in Svartsjö has all the Thing done. She has quite Anna in her power, since she lives
with her at the vicarage.

She has led them to leave in the lurch and Ferdinand to take the
old Dahlberg, but yet they are not married, and it should not be it.

Now I'm going to Borg, and there I met Anna. I want to talk to her, I want the pastor people, the groom
already alienated make.

I bring them here overnight, then should not the old Dahlberg have more joy in it. "

And so it happened.

Gösta drove alone to Borg, without one of the lively young lady,
but passed from the hot wishes of those left behind.

And Sintram, who rejoiced that the old Dahlberg should be mentioned,
decided to stay at Berga, Göstas to return to the faithless to be
seen.

In a fit of benevolence, he even wrapped it in his green scarf Travel - A gift from Mademoiselle
Ulrika herself.

Mrs. Uggla came with three red-bound books out on the stairs.

"Take
that," she said to Gosta, who was sitting in the carriage, "and take
the keep, if you should have no luck. It is Corinne, Madame de Staël
Corinne, I would not like, that the books would come under the hammer.
"

"I'm always happy!"

"Oh, Gosta, Gosta," she said, stroking his
hand over his bare head, "you Strongest and weakest among the people!
How long will you remember that the happiness of us poor people in
your hand is! "

Again Gösta flew over the public roads, pulled by
the black Don Juan, followed of the white Tancred, and the awareness
of the upcoming adventure filled his soul with jubilation.

He felt
like a young conqueror, the spirit was upon him. His path led him
to the parsonage over to Svartsjö. He drove up there and asked him
if he does not go to the ball Stjarnhok Anna should. Yes, he should.
A beautiful, headstrong girl went to him in the sled. Who would not
like to run with the black Don Juan!

At first the boy in silence,
but then began the conversation, defiant as only the Arrogance they
searched for.

"Did you hear, Gosta what the pastor is now read from
the pulpit?"

Did he say that you were the prettiest girl between
the Löfsee and the clear-Eleven? "

"You're stupid, Gosta. The people
know well ohnedem. No, he has me and the old Dahlberg called out.
"

"God knows, had I known, I would not have invited you, you to me
in the slide set! Then you can get! Leave "

And answered the haughty
heiress, "I would also have happened without Gosta Berling to Borg."

"It's
really bad about you, Anna," said Gosta thoughtfully, "that you no
father nor mother have. Now you are as you are, and it should not
take with you as closely. "

"It is far more pity that did not you
said before, then I would have another . Can drive "

"The pastor
thinks like I do, that you needest a man, you replace the same time
the father can, or she would probably not fixed up with an old Kracke.
"

"The pastor has nothing to do with it."

"Good God, you yourself
have you chosen the handsome man?"

"He takes me at least not for
the money."

"No, only look at the old blue eyes and red cheeks, and
fools are they that they do this."

"Oh, Gosta, you should be ashamed
of yourself!"

"But remember that you now no longer allowed to play
with the young men. With dance and Songwriter game over. You belong
in the lounge area - or perhaps you prefer a Rabouge game to play
with the old Dahl? "

Then they sat there in silence until they hinanfuhren
the steep hill at Borg.

"I thank you for the kind of transport. It
should not happen once again, that I with Gosta Berling go! "

"Thank
you very much! I know more than one who has repented, having driven
with you to the party. "

A little bit milder than usual, the defiant
beauty came into the ballroom and looked over the assembled Guests.

First
of all, she saw the small, bald Dahlberg next to the tall, slim, fair-haired
Gosta Berling. She had the greatest desire, they both hinauszujagen
the door. Her fiance came to ask her to dance, but she received him
with a mocking wonder.

"Want to dance? Since when do you tend to
dance? "

And the young girl came to congratulate her.

"Adjusts to
you but not children! You think it impossible that in the old Dahlberg
can fall in love? But he is rich, and I'm rich, so we fit together.
"

The old ladies came up to her, she pressed the white hand and spoke
of the highest Happiness of life. It was as think the young woman no
moment that she was the wife of Gosta Berling now. Neither he nor she spoke a word about it, then
she went to the mistress of Ekeby. She sought, as any good virtuous woman is doing to help with
burning zeal of the waste and the negligent, which prevailed in the court. And they obeyed. The
people felt a certain sense of comfort, to be back under a homemaker.

But what it did now that they had the kitchen floor can fill up with bread, implying for butter
and beer had taken care that the whole of September through until she was there, Cheese had
prepared? What all this helped now?

Come out with all that is here to help burn down the people and the pensioners not Ekeby not
kill.

Her barrel and barrel, give me the ham from the smoke floor, with the Brandy barrels, with
the apples!

How devious Ekeby whole wealth presumably to appease the peasants? Can we get away from here
without a crime has happened, we must look forward.

Everything that happens happens, but eventually only for them who
are now in Lady Ekeby is.

The Cavaliers are bold and weapons knowledgeable men, they would have defended himself, if I'd
had her own head. They would prefer these rapacious hordes have deterred some sharp shots
- it would not be stayed for her sake, which is mild and gentle, who asked for the people.

The further vorschreitet the night, so mild, the mood among the people.

The heat and the quiet and the food and the spirits to appease their violent agitation. You
start joking and laughing, drinking beer, the funeral of the girl from Nygaard; Shame on him who
makes it infirmity at the funeral of thirst and beer jokes, which belongs to both!

Children take over the vast amounts of fruit, which brings to them.

Poor day laborers children keep the wild berries for treats, indulge in the clear glass apples in the
mouth To melt into the long, sweet tomatoes for the yellowish white lemon apples, in the Pears
with red cheeks and the plums of all kinds, the yellow, red, blue. Ah! nothing is too good
for the mob, if he chooses to show his power!

When it's midnight, it almost looks as if the band are preparing to depart wants. The Cavaliers
bring any food or drinks are more, they draw no more from cork tap
the bottle and no more beer.

Facilitated them to sigh with the feeling that the Danger is over.

But just at the moment is visible in a window of the main building a light. All, then look at
the scream. A youthful female figure with the light.

It lasts only a moment. The apparition disappears, but people believe that they the bearer
of light has discovered.

"She had thick black hair and red cheeks," they shout. "She's there, they keep Hidden here! "

"Oh, you gentlemen, have you it there? Do you have our child, whose mind has taken God Ekeby here?
Your wicked, what you do with it? And let us through your week in this Fear! Let us look for
her for three whole days! Away with the wine and food!

Woe to us that we have assumed something out of your hand! Give us out first, then we will have
To see what we want to do with you! "

The very first tamed wild animal howls and roars. In frenzied leaps
it rushes to Ekeby.

The people are fast, the Cavaliers are still faster. They rush up
and push the bar before the hall door.

But what they can do against these thronging crowds? One door after another is broken. The pensioners
are being suppressed, they have no Weapons. They are surrounded by
the dense crowd, so that they can not move.

The People want to look into the house and the girl from Nygaard.

You can find them in the last room. No one has time to pay attention to whether they blond or dark
is. You lift it up and carry them out. It should not be afraid, they
say. They just want the pensioners to the throat.

They have come to save them.

But how to get out now emanating from the building, they meet another train.

At the loneliest spot in the woods no more lies the corpse of a girl from the high Fallen down the
slope and died in the traps is. A child she has found. Some of the Seekers who had been delayed
in the forest, they have raised on their shoulders. Here they come.

She is more beautiful in death as she was in life. Beautiful she is, as it lies there, with their long,
Dark hair.

She is a wonderful phenomenon, now that the rest of her eternal peace.

lifted high on the shoulders of men, it is supported by the crowds. It is still and silent,
where she comes over. Homage bowed head all the majesty of death.

"She's only just died," whispered the men, "she is still wandering in the forest. She probably
will flee before us, who they sought, and is brought down while the rocks. "

But if this is the girl from Nygaard, who's the one that was carried out of Ekeby?

The train comes out of the forest along with the procession from Ekeby.

The bright bursts flicker on the whole court. People can see the two women and they can recognize.
The other is indeed the young Countess of Borg!

"But what does this mean? Is this a new crime that we are on the trail?

Why is the young countess here Ekeby? Why did you tell us that they are far away or even was dead?
In the name of eternal justice! Do not we now rush on the pensioners and they connect with
our iron-shod heels to death? "

Since echoes a well-sounding voice. Gosta Berling has risen to the railing of the stairs and speak
from there.

"Hear me, ye monsters, you devils! Do not you think, then, that there rifles and powder Ekeby
there? You foolish people! Do not you mean that I have had the greatest pleasure, you all to the
winds to shoot like mad dogs? But there has asked for you. Oh, I had known that you would touch them,
so would not one of you be Keep living!

"Why make it here tonight scandal and raid us, such as predators and threatens us with Murder
and fire? What have I to do with your crazy girl? I know where the TRACE? I'm been good to her over
there, that's all. I would set the dogs on them should - that would be better for both of us
have been - but that I have not done so. I you never promised that I wanted to marry her - I've
never done. Consider that!

"But now I say unto you, let that go, that ye have dragged out of the house! Let them going on,
I say, and like the hands that have touched them, burn in eternal fire! Understands you not know
that it is so far above you as heaven is on earth? It is as fine as you are roughly - as good
as you are evil!

"Now I will tell you who it is.

First, it is an angel from heaven - was second, she the wife of Count on credit. But her mother
tormented her day and night, had such an ordinary maid lake and wash stand, and was beaten so
badly and tormented, that none of your women may have worse.

Yes, she was on the point to plunge into the stream, as we all know, they tortured them half
to death.

I would like probably know which of you, you rascal, at that time was at hand to save her life.
None of you was there, but we did Cavaliers.

Yes, we did it.

"And when they then her child on a farm gave birth to her and say the count was: 'Our marriage
was concluded in a foreign country, we do not have the customary practice followed, and you are
not my wife, I'm not your man;! to your child I do not care ' - Yes,
when things were so, and she did not know that the fatherless child
in church records should be, because you were arrogant have been if
they had said to one of you: 'Come and marry up with me!

I must have a father for the child! " But they chose any of you. She took Gosta Berling, the poor
priest who proclaim the Word of God never allowed. Yes, I can tell you, farmers, something I never
become so difficult, for I was so unworthy of her, that I dare you not to look into the eyes,
but I also ventured not to say no, because she was in great despair.

"And now you can think of us so much evil knights as you want only, but her We have done all the good
that I just stood in our power. And it is to their credit that Do
not we have shot down all together.

But I say unto you, 'Give it free and go your way, otherwise I believe
that the earth opens and swallows you.

And when you leave from here, then ask God to forgive you, that ye so frightened and have
lost, it is as good and innocent. And now continue with you! We have enough of you had! "

Long before he finished his speech, the men who carried out the countess, she one level set
down the stone steps, and now a great farmer came quietly to approached her and offered her
his broad hand.

"Goodbye and thank you," he said. "We women do not inflict suffering countess. It may We are
not angry. "

After him came another, and pressed her hand gently. "Goodbye and thank you! The woman Countess
must not be angry with us! "

Gösta jumped down and stood beside her. As they shook hands with him also.

And then they came slowly and quietly, one by one, to tell them good
night, before they left.

They were again subdued, they were once people, just as they have
been as they left their home in the morning, before the hunger and
the Rachbegierde it to wild animals had made.

They saw the Countess in the face, and Gösta could see how the sight
of the innocence and piety, in her features abspiegelten, brought
many a tear in the eye.

It was with them all a silent adoration of the noblest that they had ever seen, it were people
who were happy that one of them such a great love of good had.

All she could not even shake hands with her, it was her so so very
many, and the young woman was tired and weak.

But they all had to go to see them, and then could press Gosta Berling's hand, his arm was
able to tolerate it well, to be shaken.

Gösta stood there like a dream. In his heart awoke that night a new
love.

"O my people," he thought, "O my people, I love you!" He felt himself all this Crowd loved that
moved in the darkness of the night from there, the body of the girl at the supporting head of
the procession, all these people in rough clothes and smelly shoes
all in the gray huts lived at the forest edge, leading no spring,
and often not could read once that they suspected nothing of the fullness
and richness of life, the only the troubles and worries for their
daily bread knew.

Was not that a great nation, a great nation? Was it not brave and enduring, was it is not cheerful
and industrious, it was not clever and enterprising? Was not the arms often good for the poor?
Was not in the trains of the most powerful expression of intelligence? Was not a sparkling sense of
humor in her speech?

He loved her with a painful burning tenderness that drove him, tears in his eyes. He did not
know what he wanted to do for her, but he loved them all as one, with their mistakes and infirmity.
Oh God! but the day would come when once where he was loved by them!

He awoke from his dream. His wife put her hand on his arm. The crowd was disappeared. They were
at that moment all alone on the stairs.

       "Oh, Gosta, Gosta! How could you do it!

"

She buried her face in her hands and wept.

"What I said is true," he exclaimed. "I'm the girl from Nygaard had never promised to marry her. "Come
next Friday here, then you shall see something funny!" the was all I said to her. I can not help
it that she fell in love with me. "

"Oh, yes I mean no, but how could you just tell them that I am well and is pure? Gosta, Gosta!
Do not you know that I have loved you, as I still do not could love? I was ashamed of these people!
I was about to die of shame! "

And a sob made her whole body tremble.

He stood looking at her. "Oh, sweetheart," he said softly. "How happy are you that you 're so
good!

How happy are you that you have such a beautiful soul! "

Kevenhiiller

Dear friends! This is just a pathetic little allegory.

The allegory is usually in general to dress in divine beauty, with
royal Emblems, but this one has more like a ragged and starving street
urchins.

The allegory dials like a home in beautiful Arcadian groves and high porches, but this poor little
thing I found in Karlstad, where she is out, before the great stone Tower situated at the western
bridge, sat and wept.

The old stone tower is probably not welcomed in the beautiful, elegant,
modern city.

It is a rectangular, high and narrow building of granite stones, and he's really ugly with
its small, narrow peepholes. There's jewelry on the gray walls or sharp Corners, and the whole is
something sinister and affright.

The old building looks like the main tower of a castle, but as most say that it has a windmill
has been, he also lacks the romantic value.

But is it really true that the poor little allegory there has their
home.

I want you now tell you what a good-natured little allegory it, then I think no one is there my heart
to take to tear down the tower. They would rather live there than on the chateau or at City Hall
or at the grammar school. You may prefer non-pecked walls and lives enjoy the company of rats
and bats. For this reason it worth while not to to tell them if they do not also let us know so
much about what really happened, if it had not been one of the pensioners
in Ekeby the hero in it, and if they are not reported the last great
disaster would have came over Ekeby.

* * * * *

In the seventies of the eighteenth century, the learned later so and
skilled Kevenhiiller born in Germany.

He was the son of a castle and would count in high locks and stay on the side of the emperor
can ride, if he had had the desire to do so. But he had not.

He had far more desire to fix, windmill on the highest tower of the
castle, the Knights' Hall transform into a smithy and the women's
apartments in a watchmaker's workshop.

He felt like to fill the castle with whirring gears and levers working.

Since this is not could do, so he turned the whole mess back and went to the watchmaker theory. Since
he learned everything that could be learned of gears and springs and Pendueles. He learned
Solar and stellar clocks make clocks with chirping canaries and trumpet-blowing shepherd Chimes,
the bell tower filled out a whole with its strange machinery, and Movements so small that they
could be included in a locket.

When he had received his master's certificate, he strapped the knapsack
on his back, took the Knotty stick in his hand and wandered from place
to place, to study everything on rollers and the wheels went.

Kevenhiiller was no ordinary watchmaker, he was a great inventor and do-gooders are.

After he had traversed so many countries, he also went to Wermland to mill wheels and mining facilities
to study in detail.

On a beautiful summer morning, it so happened that he went across the Karlstad marketplace. But
in this same beautiful morning hour had the grace, the ruler of the forest, found it good,
straight from the forest to wander into town. This lady just came across the marketplace, but
from the opposite side, and there met they Kevenhiiller.

This was a meeting for a journeyman watchmaker. She had sparkling green eyes and thick, blond
hair that reached almost to the ground, and was dressed in green,
rustling silk.

Although she was a goblin and a pagan, she was more beautiful than all the Christian women,
the Kevenhiiller had ever seen. He stood there as if lost and looked
at her as she to him passed.

She came straight from the jungle in the depths of the forest where the ferns are high as Trees,
which exclude the giant pines, sunlight, so it only as a golden sparks on the green moss is, and
where the Linnaea crawling over the lichen-clad stones.

Oh, how
I had been in Kevenhiiller instead and would have seen it was coming,
with fern leaves and pine needles in the thick hair and a small black
snake around the Neck. Does it to you before: with a supple response
as a wild animal and a fresh scent of resin and strawberries and Linnäen
and moss with the leader!

How people might have stared at her when
she ventured to the marketplace Karlstad to walk! I think the horses
are in terror of her long hair in the morning breeze fluttered, become
shy. The street boys were running along behind her. The servants were
car and ax are to their nachzustarren. The women screamed and ran
to bishop and cathedral chapter, to drive away the monster from the
city.

She herself walked calmly and majestically along and just smiled
the whole spectacle, so that Kevenhiiller could see their little pointed
carnivore teeth behind red lips.

She had thrown a cloak over his
back, that no one should remember who she was; But the misfortune
was that she had forgotten to hide the tail. It lay there now and
dragged on the pavement along behind her.

Kevenhiiller probably saw
the tail, but one must remember that he was a count's son, when He
was only a watchmaker. He was sorry that such a high-born lady to
ridicule the shopkeeper should be abandoned, so he bowed to the rich
and said chivalrous:

»Liking your worship not to include the train?"

The
Hulder was stirred, both by his friendly disposition and through his
courtesy. They stopped right in front of him, so it was as glittering
sparks result from their Eyes into his brain into it. "Remember that,
Kevenhiiller," she said, "Henceforth thou shalt Run your two hands
any work of art can do what you like, but only one "Of all kinds

She
said, and she could keep her word. Because who does not know that
the Green-Clad from the forest thicket has power to him who knows
how to win her favor, genius and wonderful powers to pay?

Kevenhiiller
stayed in Karlstad and rented a workshop there. He hammered and worked
Day and night. Eight days later, he had made a work of art. It was
a car, which by itself went. He ran up and down the hill, went fast
and slow, and was directed be turned over, could be stopped and required
to operate, just as you wanted. It was a great car.

Now was Kevenhiiller
a famous man and had friends all over the city. He was so proud on
his car that he went to Stockholm to show it to the king. He did not
need to wait for post-horses or not to be shaken by or on miserable
karriolen to sleep the wooden benches of the post stations. He drove
very proud in his own car and came in a few hours to Stockholm.

He
drove straight to the palace, and the King came out with courtiers
and court ladies and saw him go. She could not praise enough.

Then
the King said: "The car you can give me, Kevenhiiller And although
he said no. The king insisted on his claim and wanted the car.

Since
saw Kevenhiiller that in the wake of the king A lady with blond hair
and grünseidenem Robe stood. He knew them very well, and now he realized
that she had advised the king, to ask for the car. But he fell into
despair. He could not stand it that should have another his carriage,
and yet he dared not in the long run, no to King to say. I was
obtained in triumph, and loaded with all kinds of honors in a race; The sculptors had to day and
night at my statues to work tired, all the temples, all public squares and halls were adorned
with monuments of my glory, and one that which in the sequence with the greater violence in my
doom had worked here, now propose the most zealous, over-and never before heard rewards that
the People in the fire of his affection schwaermerischen good-hearted manner approved without
it to think that I respect these excesses in his recently by himself to just so many crimes
would be made.

Then I saw that all my modesty was not sufficient, the current flowing over to do of popular
gratitude stop, so I thought to do best when I am a Time away from Athens, and by the Athenian
vivacity by any new Comedy, a foreign entertainers, or a freshly-arrived another swing dancer
would have received on my farm to Corinth in the company of the Muses and Graces to enjoy a
leisure that I have earned through the work of a whole year believed. I'm not so much that
I'm in a city whose favorite I seemed to be Enemies have them, however, that I am with all the
carefree innocence of the pleasures of rural life, and social freedom left, an equally vicious
as a well devised Plan to create my demise are beschaeftiget.

Everything that I used my sharpest in the examination of my public
and private life in Athens'm aware, my misfortune, if not deserving,
but befoedert to have is lack of foresight or the lack of a certain
Republican wisdom, which give only the experience can.

I lived for my taste, and in my heart because I knew certainly that Both were good, without
thinking that I am to attribute intentions to others my actions can, as I really had. I lived with a
certain grandeur, because I Schoene loved, and fortune had, I did everybody good, because I
my heart by a pleasure procured, which I preferred to all other joys, I busied myself with the
common Best of the Republic, because I was born, because I have a drive to felt in me, and because
I hoped to be informed by the affection of my fellow citizens in the state, my to his country
and the world to be useful. I had no other intentions, and I would tend to have imagined that you would
accuse me, for the crown of the king of Persia, as after the suppression of my country aspire.
Since I was aware deserves to have anyone's hate, I thought every one for my friend, who should
therefore make a spent, the more so as no one in Athens, was that I had not made services. From
precisely why I'm the same little about how I'm an attachment, as I would thwart the attacks
of secret enemies, who were invisible to me. For I did not believe that the frankness with which
I, without arrogance or gall, my opinion on every occasion said, the railroad could be a cause
to make me enemies. In a word, I did not know that virtue, merit and good deeds are just that
by which can irritate some people to the deadly hatred. A sad experience could help me alone
to that view, and it's cheap, I think it worth, because they me no less than my country, the
love of my peers, my most beautiful hopes and to do the most blissful fortune, many good, and
no one abzuhaengen of cost, has. "

CHAPTER SEVEN

Agathon is banished from Athens

"The time of my life, to which I am now come to offend allzuunangenehme
memories with him when I should not be excused, though I hasten off
so quickly like this, as it will allow the justice that I myself am
guilty.

It may be that some of my enemies from motives of a Republican zeal
risen against me , and by my fall just as deserving to make their
country have believed, as Harmodius and Aristogeiton by the murder
of Pisistratids.

But it is certain, that those who run the thing with greater fury,
no other motive had when the jealousy of the reputation which gave
me the general favor of the people; and that they, not without cause,
for a Hinternis their ambitious and mercenary Intentions were.

Most also believed that they had to avenge personal insults. Some have nurtured the old grudge, which
she at my first appearance in the Republic against touch me, I snatched my honest friend,
the effects of their wickedness, others It hurt that I prefer them when choosing a commander
against the insurgents Islands had been, many were by the loss of the benefit, which they of the
unjust oppression pulled them had been offended. These all helped me nothing that I do not they
had been intended to offend, and that it only happen randomly by was that I had traded my convictions
and my duties tariffs. They assessed my actions from a completely different point, and it was
with them an arrant Principle that one who could not be an honest man who limits their private
intentions sat. Unfortunately for me, these people made a large part of the noblest and Richest
in Athens. This purpose was to add that I always continued my love for Psyche, the most beneficial
compounds, which had been offered to me sacrificed, and me was robbed by the support and protection,
which I by the intermarriage would have sex with a mighty promise. I had nothing I to could put
the combined intrigue and violence against so many enemies, as my innocence, some merit, and the affection
of the people, weak parapets, which never against have withstood the attacks of envy, malice and the
most violent. The innocence can suspect made, and even merits a false light by the image of crime
may be, and what is the favor of enthusiastic people whose movements are its deliberations
before coming; that with the same loves and hates about mass, and if once it is placed in a fiebrische
heat, equally inclined, this or an opposite Directorate, according as it pushed to follow? What
I could from the favor of a People expect that the great protector of freedom in Greek prison
had let languish? What is the virtuous Aristides, just because he nicknamed of the just deserved,
utterly, and in one of his habitual moods so very the Socrates was condemned to the poison-cup,
because he was the wisest and most virtuous man of his Century. These examples have told me
immediately at the first message I get from the above me the puckering storm, received reliably
in advance what I of the Athenians would have expected, they made them that I no longer trusted
to as they made; and contributed not a little to make me suffer a misfortune with fortitude, had
to tasks in which I had such excellent men.

The one which my enemies had chosen to my accusers, was one of these fun Schwaetzer, cheap talent that
will be ready to fight for right or wrong. He had learned in the school of Gorgias infamous,
by the cast handles the art of speech Understanding of his audience to dazzle, and to persuade
them that they might see what they saw not. He cares little about it to prove that which he with the greater
boldness claimed, but he knew him such a lively appearance to give, and by a while arbitrary,
But the more artificial link its records, the weakness of each one, if it is in itself and
would be considered in isolation, to hide so cleverly that one, so very careful with Assessment force
had to be on his guard to avoid being surprised by it. The chief criticism of his indictment
should be pretended to, the bad management be, that I as a senior commander in the matter of the
outraged relatives protection should have been guilty, for he proved with a large word-processions,
that I in this the expedition would have done nothing that would be worth talking about, that
I, rather, instead to chastise the insurgents and bring them to obedience, their solicitor present,
they had them more than they fodern even the audacity; rewarded for their rebellion been granted,
and proceed through this kind of incomprehensible, given them courage
and strength would have, at the first opportunity to make fully independent
from Athens, he proved (I say) all this according to the principles
of a policy that the interplay of the was mine, but the passions of
the Athenians and of any other people too much flattered, not to find
the entrance.

He still had the wickedness, not to decide do if I have made ignorance or deliberately acted, but
he arose on the one side of my abilities so much and put so much into the other probabilities Waag-shell,
that the rash had to give of themselves. This led him to the second Part of his indictment,
which in fact (if he wanted to confess not the same), the main work which accounted for. And here
were accusations heaped on accusations to me the People as a Ehrsuechtigen to paint that had a
plan made to his country , Oppression, and under the guise of generosity, of liberality and popularity,
the absolute master of the same pose. Each one of my virtues, was the mask of a Vice, which
is hidden in the destruction of freedom and bliss of the Athenians worked. In fact, had the eloquence
of my accusers got a nice field, to show to their advantage, and make his listeners the pleasure
Republican, a virtue, which seemed to give great advantage over my fellow citizens has fallen,
to see. Meanwhile, though he no part of my private life (as it formerly irreproachable my patrons
seemed) had left unpolluted, so he might get but that the Artifices, that he had to serve to
strongly would like to fall into his eyes. He So gathered up everything that could only be
always able to me in a hateful light to make, and as he burden of crime, which he would have
me with some probability can lack, so he put me strange follies, and even the extravagant honorary
testimonials a burden which pressed upon me in the flood of my happiness and my favor with
the people had been. I had so very "now" for the miserable verses give an account, so some Poet,
which I ventured too far from a perhaps driven pity me every day to pay the interest, time
your visit to me the gratitude of her stomach, at the expense had sought to prove their fame
and mine. I was accused in the whole Seriously, I was spirited and wicked enough to me for
a son of the Delphic Apollo issue, and let my accusers do not miss this opportunity to discuss
my true birth to excite doubt, and, among many humorous twists, the opinion of those likely
to find that (said he) believed to be notified that I mean The existence of any furtive love affairs
would have to thank a Delphic priest. In all this talk of replacing an animated evil wit the
evident proof of departure; But the Athenians had long been accustomed to selling themselves
wit for truth and to imagine that they convinced would, if her taste and her ears amused were
tickled. So she made all the impression, and perhaps even more than my Enemies had promised them.
The jealousy which they blew in the cozy, transformed the excessive affection, the object I had
been for two years, in a time of two hours in the bitter hatred. The Athenians were frightened
at the abyss, at the margin they are, by their infatuation for me, imperceptibly drawn .-- They
saw astonished that my inability to state administration, my desire for an absolute Violence,
looking far my intentions and my secret understanding with their enemies would have rather not seen,
and since it would not have been, of course, the blame of this to take upon itself, they ascribed
it rather to a charm, giving me their to seal eyes for a time would have known this. Every
now believed by the pernicious Attacks, which I have taken against the Republic losgezaehlt,
the gratitude completely to be, that he liked me to be for services or benefits owed; which
now as the bait were considered, by which I mean freedom, and with it wegzuangeln the property of my
fellow citizens, sought. In short: It is this nation that a few months more than human perfections admired
in me was now "unreasonable enough not to let the least of my left; and even those who would
be at a moment have been willing to give me the dominion impose a general confluence were here,
now eager to stop me one, I never caught, against freedom, that they went in that moment itself,
see pay with my blood. My opinion was just the time when the usual me Deadline was given to
account, like the majority of the votes already, and the Pleasure with which I was accompanied
by an innumerable crowd of people would go to prison, have been perfect if the laws that have allowed
me instead then, without further Process formally to lead to the target square.

So happy my enemies attack had left her pay, so they believed to my loss is not sufficiently assured
to have, they feared the instability a people of whom they knew all too well how easy it moves
in the opposite was set. It remained possible that I did with a mere exile for several years by
wiping could, and let them get a change of the scene in which neither their hatred me or their
security, their accounts were. You had to jump another mine , Let me through if I was once driven
from Athens, all hope of ever again would be cut to come back. You had to prove that I am
not a citizen of Athens was, that my mother was not a citizen, and my father was not Stratonicus;
me that he, in the absence of an heir of his own blood, out of hatred against the person in
it, the Laws referred to, would have been accepted and have pushed, and that therefore the laws of
me no right to his inheritance granted. Since it never lacks of people at Athens, against which
a reward proportioned all have seen and heard, what you will, and since all those died, were able to give
the truth which would have the best evidence: it was my Opponents an easy, all this just to
prove as good as it my state crime had demonstrated. So there was a new suit made. Those who
have the plaintiffs raised against me, was a nephew of my father, by nothing but the dissolute
Food type is known, so he had his inheritance verprasset Well several years ago. His Incorrigibility
he finally had the friendship of my father, as respect for all righteous people, robbed, and that
fact he used now, to me a legacy to bring it as the next heir, before me Stratonicus declared for his
son, had swallowed up his mind already. The skill of the speaker, whose services he purchased to
his execution Bubenstuecks, the powerful assistance of my enemies, circumstances itself, in which he suddenly
came over me, and especially the kindness of his witnesses, to summon all the falsehoods, which
he needed for his purpose: all this taken together, assured him of the happy outcome of his treachery,
and the riches, the fact he fell, were in the eyes of a numb, miserable as it was important
enough to deal with crimes that cost him so little to be bought.

This last trick, the most complete evidence to what a degree the anger of my enemies was increased,
and how they were certainly aware of the success, I hope not left much, theirs to make them ashamed.
For all my supposed friends, a few, that good will was without fortune, had, as soon as they saw
me down on his luck, me too leave for others, which, though of the
wrong that was done to me, were convinced, had the courage not to
opt for a cause which they did not concern just to put in danger;
and the only one whose character, esteem and friendship I maybe would
have to pay can come, was located for some time at the court of the
young Dionysius to Syracuse.

I confess that I, as long as the first movements lasted, my bad luck in all his Extent felt. For
an honest, while still little more experienced mind, it's horrible to feel that they had cheated
in his good opinion of the people, and genoetiget to see the horrible choice, either in a constant
uncertainty to live in front of the weakness of the one, and from the evil of others, or to utter to banish
from their society. But the faint-hearted, which is a result of my first melancholy reflections
had lasted not long. The experiences I have since my Offset to the scene of a bigger world, had made
in so short a time aroused the memories of my happy youth in Delphi back with a vivacity on where
they presented me with the turmoil of urban and political life never had. The movement of my
mind, the sadness, of which it was imbued with the certainty I in a few days from all the favors,
which me luck so fast ueberschuettet and had to kind of abundance, nothing but the memory
that provides us with a Dream remains, and from everything I had called my nothing but the awareness
would my honesty, remove from Athens with me, put me on once again in this blissful enthusiasm,
which we are capable, the most that the combined force of happiness and human wickedness do against
us, a steadfast heart and a cheerful Face to oppose. The immediate consolation that my principles
on my mind poured, the warmth and strength neubeseelte gave them my soul, convinces me again
of its truth. I pointed it is not the virtue that they gave me the hatred and Persecution of
the evil had closed, I felt that they rewarded themselves. The accident seemed to me all the
more stronger to connect with her, just as we have a loved one more more expensive, the more
we suffer for ihrentwillen.
 

"Fire Ekeby now," she said, laughing.

Kevenhiiller had brought the big hammer and was about to throw her
on the head, but as he saw that she held his wheel of fire in his
hand.

"See what I saved for you," she said.

Kevenhiiller threw himself down on his knees before her. "You have destroyed my car, you have broken
my wings and have destroyed my life. Now do me a favor, mercy on me! "

She climbed up onto the bench and sat there just so young and so mischievous, as then, as he
had seen for the first time in the marketplace to Karlstad.

"I see you know who I am," she said.

"I know you, and I've always known," said the unhappy man, "You are
the Genius.

But give me free now. Take your gift from me!

Take the wonderful gifts from me! Let me to be an ordinary person!
Why do you persecute me?

Why did you destroy me? "

"Goal!" Said the bounty. "I did not deliberately evil. I gave you a great reward but I can take
you back when it pleases thee not.

But remember you well - you'll regret it! "

"No, no, 'he cried," take the miraculous gifts from me!

"

"First you have to destroy it here," she said and threw the wheel
of fire in front of him to the ground.

He thought not. He swung the big hammer on the bright fire, sun, nothing was more than ugly Zauberkram
if they are not applied for the benefit of thousands could. The sparks flew around in the forge,
flames and shards danced around him, and then was his last work of
art there in ruins.

"Yes, I take my gift from you," said the bounty.

As she stood in the door to leave, and the glow of the fire out there
about her form was poured, he saw her after the last time.

Beautiful than ever before, she appeared to him and not so malicious, only strict and proud.

"Goal!"
She said, "I told you ever forbidden to convert into your art works of others? What I kept was
to define, as the man of genius to keep in front of the hardships of the craft? "

And then she left. Kevenhiiller was mad for several days. Then he was again like a ordinary person.

The
main building of Ekeby was burned down. People had not been harmed. But it was a great grief
to the pensioners that the hospitable house where they so much good had enjoyed, should suffer
for their time so much damage.

Oh - their children later times! If I had been there or you who's favor in the marketplace If
you were to meet Karlstad!

Do not you think that I would have gone into the woods and called would "favor, grace! I'm the
one Kevenhiiller, "But who sees these days? Anyone who complains in our times about having
too much get their gifts?

The market Broby

On the first Friday in October, the large market of Broby that lasts eight days. This is the
biggest festival in the whole year.

The same goes great battles and baking in each household advance, then the new winter clothes ready
and can be tightened for the first time; the hard food - cheese cake and donut - available
all day on the table, and the liquor rations are doubled but the work rests. In each farm will be
a celebration celebrated, and the servants and day laborers to take their wages and consider exactly
what on the market should be purchased.

From afar, people come in small flocks the road walked along the knapsack on his back, his
stick in his hand. Many also have their Drive cattle to market, to sell it in these hard times.
Small, stubborn Bull calves and goats, the rest and set before the front legs stiff, manage the
owner Not much and the audience much amusement. The guest rooms on the estates are fully welcome
Guests, it is exchanged news, prices for livestock and inventory will be considered. The children go
hand in hand and dream of fair gifts.

And on the first market day - as teeming as the Broby hills and on the whole great Marketplace of market
visitors! There are built tents where merchants from the cities have spread their wares, while
Dalecarlians Westgotländer and their belongings on long Series of
"slices" pile, which flutters on the white canvas tent.

Acrobat, organ- and blind violinist is in abundance, as fortune tellers, breast seller sugar,
brandy gift. Behind the huts of stone and wooden dish is lightened. Onions and horseradish, Apples
and pears are offered for sale by the gardeners of the great manors.

Long distances the market place with red-brown, interior tinned copper utensils white cover.

But
on the sales you can remember well that in Svartsjö and Bro and in other towns on Löfsee need
help. Trading in the tents and on the disc is just bad. The most sales are made on the large cattle market,
for many a must sell cow and horse, to get themselves through the winter. There is also the
wild, exciting horse exchange instead.

It's funny ago in the market Broby. If you have only money to a few spirits, so to maintain
the humor already. But not the spirit alone is the author of Joy. If people in the remote forest
cabins to the market place with its undulating Crowds come down, they are initially quite
shocked when the noise of screaming, laughing crowds listening, but only if they are right
in the swarm, they are as it were intoxicated the joy, wild roaring of the carnival life.

Well there is much trade between so many people, but that's hardly
the main thing.

The most important thing is to sit down with a circle of good friends in a booth and in mutton
sausage to maltreat lard biscuits and brandy, or to persuade his girl, a hymn book and adopt
a silk cloth, or market to buy gifts for the children at home.

All who are not forced to stay at home and the house and yard are to respect, to Broby come. There
are gentlemen of Ekeby and Köhler Nygaard, horse traders from Norway,
Finns from the great forests and vagrants from all over the world.

Now and then collects all the raging sea in a vortex, which is in rings to make a heart appear.
No one knows what is in the middle, until a Some police officers break through the crowd to make
a fight to an end or a fallen Car up again. And next moment, the crowd gathers again - to a
merchant, the haggling with a lively girl.

Around noon starts the big fight. The farmers have taken it into his head, that the use of scarce
Westgotländer yardstick, it first creates quarrels and cursing to "their" discs, but soon it
goes on to blows.

For the many who in those Days of nothing but hardship and misery saw it was a relief, three
hit hard again to, no matter who or what you hit. And as soon see the strong and aggressive, that a
fight in progress, they rush in from all sides.

The pensioners do break even in the ball to their own way to make peace, and the Dalecarlians ,
hurry to help the Westgotländern.

The strong Måns from Fors is the most eager in the matter. He is drunk, and angry He also, and
now he has overturned a Westgotländer and started thrashing him,
on the cry for help but collapsed and caused a compatriot will compel
the strong Måns, his to have prey drive.

Because of the strong rips Måns down all the goods of one of the discs, take the disc itself,
a cubit wide and eight yards long and made of thick planks there, and begins to swing it as
a weapon around.

The strong Måns is a terrible man. He kicked a wall in the prison Filipstad , and he could lift
a boat from the lake on the shoulder and carry her home.

One can probably understand that the whole crowd, and all Westgotländer take to flight, when he
the heavy disk thrashes about. But the strong Måns crash behind them and propose straight on.
He pays no attention more on friend or foe, he only wants someone to the strike, he can, now
that he has a gun.

The people desperately flee from him.

Men and women scream and run. But as it is possible to escape from the women - they have so their
little children by the hand!

The stalls and cars blocking the road.

Cows and oxen, which are based on the noise gone wild prevent their
escape.

In a corner of the stalls is a crowd jammed women, and rushes on the
Giant going on.

Is he still a Westgotländer to see in their midst! In pale, shuddering Afraid to take the women,
contrary to the attack, and creep along under the killing blow.

But when the whistle disc falls on them, their force by the extended upwards Arms of a man broken.
A man is not crawling along, he's in the middle Knot of people erect, a man has collected from
free will the blow to to save the many. Women and children are standing there unharmed. A man has
the power of the Broken shock, but now he lies unconscious on the
floor.

The strong Måns raises his disk to not to weiterzustürmen. has the
look of the man met him, as the disc fell on his head, and this view
has it with Paralysis struck.

It can bind and carry on without resistance.

But with lightning haste the rumor spread throughout the market that the strong Måns slew Captain
Lennart. It is said that he, who was the friend of the people died, is to save women and defenseless
children.

And it is still in the square, where life just now, then rushed in
a wild frenzy: trade increased, the fights to hear that solve Festschmäuse
in the refreshment stalls on, attracted by the vainly Acrobat to viewers.

The friend of the people is dead, the People have grief.

In deep silence the crowd all together to the place where he fell is. He lies stretched on
the ground, completely unconscious, no wound is visible, only the skull is flattened like.

Some men lift him carefully on the disc, which has the hero can fall. They believe to note that
he is still alive.

"Where should we take him?" They ask each other.

"Home," replied a harsh voice from the crowd.

Yes, you good men carries him home!

Lift him on your shoulders and carry him to Home!

He has been God's mercy, he is Herget rubbed against his breath like
a feather.

Carry him home now!

The wounded head is on the hard bunk in prison, on the bundle of hay in the barn rested. Let's
get it home now and resting on a soft pillow!

No fault has He suffered shame and sorrow, he is driven away from
his own door.

Carry him now after Home! A restless refugees it was, he walked in the ways of God, where
he could find, the land was his desire but this home, the door closed
to him God had.

Carry him home! Maybe his home is the open, the dead are women and to save children.

Now he does not like a criminal, accompanied by tumbling boon companions,
a grieving Crowd following him, he lived in their huts, he has helped
them in their suffering.

Carry him home now!

And they do.

Six men lift the disc on which he lies on their shoulders and carry him away from the marketplace.
Where they come from, people soft to the side and stand still: men
expose the main, women bow as in the church when Jesus' name is mentioned.

Many cry and wipe his eyes, while others are beginning to talk about
what a man he was, so good, so serene, so helpful, so righteous.

It is wonderful to see how, once a tire carrier, and immediately another
comes implied chisels shoulder under the glass.

Captain Lenny comes over well in the place where the pensioners are.

"I suppose I must go and take care that he comes home safely," says Creutz and Beer leaves his
place on the road side, in order to go after Helgesater and follow
his example even some.

The market place is nearly empty, and all give Captain Lennart escorted
to Helgesater.

One must see to it that he comes home. All the necessary to the well bought should be, must
be avoided, the fair presents for the kids at home to remember the
hymn-book is not purchased, the silk cloth, which excited the desire
of the girl's remains be on the booth table.

All fields with and see that Captain Lenny comes home safely.

As the train Helgesater achieved, it is there, empty and desolate.
Again thundering fists of the Supreme at the closed door.

All servants are on the market and the housewife is home alone remain and guard the house. It
opens today.

And as once before, so she asks today: "What do you want?"

To which the colonel, as once before, replied: "We are here with your husband."

She looks at him, who stands stiff and cool-headed as ever.

She looks the support behind him to that cry, and the whole crowd behind them. She stands there
on the steps and looks in hundreds of tearful eyes, they stare at
the player. Finally she looked at the man, the stretched out on a
stretcher rests, and pressing her hand against the heart.

"That is
his true face," she mutters.

Without questioning this, she bends
down and pushes back the bolt, slams the door far and goes before
the other into her bedroom.

With the help of the Supreme she pulls
apart the double bed pushed together and shakes the beds, and then
Captain Lennart put back on downs and soft white linen.

"Is he alive?"
She asks.

"Yes," replied the colonel.

"Is there hope?"

"No, it
is to make anything of it."

For a while there is deep silence, then
she suddenly asks: "all these people crying for his sake? "

"Yes."

"What
has he done?"

"The last thing he did was that he was killed by the
strong Måns to children and women from the certain destruction to
save. "

She sits for a while in silence and meditate.

"What a face
he had only, Colonel, when he came home two months ago?"

The Colonel
winces. Only now he understands the whole context!

Gosta had painted
him yes! "

"So for the sake of a trivial prank I have him locked
my house? How you want it , Responsible Colonel? "

Beer Creutz shrugged
his shoulders broad: "I'm probably more on his conscience, so I I
must answer. "

"This certainly is the worst thing you've done!"

"Then
I have never done a worse response than here today after Helgesater.
By the way, two others are to blame. "

"Who then?"

»Sintram is the
one that you yourself are other, cousin. You are a strong woman. I
know that more than one attempt was made to talk to you about your
husband. "

"That's true," she replied. And then she asks him to tell
of the drinking in Broby.

He told everything as best he can recall
his, and she listens in silence. Captain Lenny is still lying unconscious
on the bed. The room is filled with crying People and no one thinks
to throw these troubled flock. All doors are wide open, all rooms,
stairways and corridors are full of silent, troubled people - to far
to the yard, they are in close groups.

As the colonel ended his tale,
the wife of the captain says, raising his voice: "If one of the gentlemen
in this room is, I ask him to go. It is difficult for me, a gentleman
here to see my husband on his deathbed. "

Without saying a word,
is at the top and goes out. So do Gosta Berling and a few gentlemen,
the captain of the escort Lennart have given. 

In their time, frothy, bitter beer, the broad granite steps of the Björkseefalles down and Löfsee
was filled not with water but with brandy. In her time was not Pig iron placed in the forging,
in shirt sleeves and wooden shoes stood in front of the forge the fire and turned huge roast
on long skewers, while blacksmiths studded Capons with big guns were on fire. In those days the
dance was over the hill there. They slept on the bench and played cards on the anvil. In those
days no iron forged.

But spring came, and trading offices in Gothenburg began to be on the iron wait Ekeby. They took
out the contracts that were signed with the Major and Baroness were and where deliveries were promised
by many hundred talents.

But what took care of the pensioners are the contracts of the major's wife? They kept the joy and
playing the violin and the entertainments in progress.

They ensured that the dance on the hill went.

It came from Stömne iron, and it came from iron Sölje.

The iron found its way from Kymsberg over the nations, down to the Wenersee. Uddeholm came from
iron and Munkefors and all the large estates around. But where is the iron from Ekeby?

Ekeby is no longer the most important of all steel plants throughout
Wermland?

No one watches on the honor of the old house? Oh no! The same is valid in the hands of suitors
down the only ensure that the dance goes on the hill.

What assets their miserable brains continue to care for?

But Gießbäche and waterfalls and rivers and barges and locks and ports, and wonder ask: "Is it
not the iron from Ekeby"?

And it whispers and asks from forest to sea, from mountain to valley, "Come for the iron from
Ekeby not? If for no longer Ekeby iron? "

And deep inside the forest starts the charcoal kilns to laugh, and it is as if the heads laugh
at the big hammers in the dark forges scornfully, holes open up their broad Throat and agree to
a mocking laughter. The desks in the trading posts, in which the
contracts Major's wife kept the lie, shake with laughter.

"Have you ever heard such a thing? It is not an iron on Ekeby! On the iron works best in all of Wermland
they have no iron! "

Go forth, careless! On their homeless! It tolerates her that such a shame on Ekeby falls? As true
as you love the most beautiful spot on God's green earth, so true that he Due to the far end of
your desire is, as sure as you call his name among strangers can, without that connect you
with tears in his eyes, raises you, gentlemen, saves Ekeby honor!

Well, if that has been suspended in Ekeby the hammer, then surely in the six other iron works,
which we belong, has worked. There are certainly more iron than we use!

And then takes off Gosta Berling, to talk with the administrators
on the six other farms.

On Högfors that the Björk Seebach, is dense in Ekeby says he will
not be worth to ask.

This is too close to Ekeby and had to immediately under the influence
of the Cavaliers stood.

But he drove a few miles farther north until he came to Lätafors. This was a nice place, let
not deny it! The upper part of the Löfsees spread itself the one hand, and behind it was Gurlittafelsen
with its pointed peaks and its romantic look that fits so well for
an old mountain.

But the forging of the not as it should be: the drive wheel is broken
and it is the whole last year through been.

"Why is it not but put right?"

"The carpenter, the only carpenter in the whole area here that can make it whole again, has
been employed elsewhere. We do not have a single hundred-forge iron may. "

"But why have you not sent for a carpenter?"

"Sent to the Carpenters! As if we had not sent him any day!

But he could yes never come. He has had enough to do all the arcades and bowling alleys on Ekeby
to make ready. "

Since it is Gösta suddenly realized how he fare on this trip.

He pulls up next to Björnidet. Also this is a great place with a situation which could be suitable
for a castle. The house looks great on a semi-circular valley across, surrounded on three sides
by majestic heights, and limits on the fourth of the Löfsee. And Gösta know that there is no
better place for moonlight walks and schools, as the path to the
Elfufern along, past the waterfall and down to the forge, the has
its place in vaults that are spread on the rock face itself.

But iron is there iron?

Of course not.

They had had no coal, and from Ekeby they had no money can get to pay the Köhler, nor people
to take the coals. All Winter, the plant had stood still.

And then crashes on Gosta, to the south. He comes to trading on the eastern shore of the lake
and after Löfstafors deep inside the forest and after Elgfors - but even there it was made
him no better.

Nowhere does it have iron, and everywhere there seems to blame the Cavaliers to be that it is way
she does.

Finally he comes to Elgfors, a small iron, deep down between the eastern Hills, one of those lovely
places, which is always a tempting power over men have possessed.

There are magnificent hunting in the woods and rich fishing in the lake. Since are headlands
with birch forests, where you would like to stay in silent brooding,
while the day lasts.

And then there is such silence and such a peace in that not to belong
to the troubled and restless world thinks.

But the forces of peace, the rule there, there have always been established
that the way dahinauf impassable or nearly impassable is.

That should feel Gosta Berling, when he and Don Juan finally came up on the iron work.

On Elgfors Gustav Bendix administrator. He puts his face fell into the most serious Fold, as
he learns the purpose of Göstas coming.

"You probably have nothing other to the works," he asks.

"No, nothing!"

"The villain," he exclaims. to come "with such stories.

Wilt thou believe that I iron their trucks this winter have met here in the woods? Believe
me, Gosta, they have their iron already in Gothenburg. "

As summarized Gösta hope. He had not promised much of Gustav Bendix,
but now begins he believes in, that there is iron.

       

Gustav Bendix takes him by the hand and leads him to the office.

"Now I will show you something wonderful, dear brother," says the
old joker and takes a couple of small steel files from the drawer.

"Can you probably guess where I found them?" And he sees him with a terrible Serious face.

No,
you can not guess Gosta.

"See here!" And he takes a large dead rat from the same drawer, and then shows He Gösta that the rat had
no front teeth in the normal foot, but a few Steel files.

"What do you think, dear brother?" Gustav continues Bendix. "Look, I think it wrong by God.
Such a rat can even eat iron. So do these little devils. All our iron rod they have eaten. Not
even a hundred-remains. When I came yesterday in the memory, the
whole mess is gone, the memory is swept clean like.

There was nothing left but a few chips and a dead rat, but sat the two files in her mouth, and
I understood so, how the whole thing had happened. Want to have the files? They are quite interesting.
"

And as he turns to his troubled face Gosta Berling, on the office chair sinks and close to it,
is to die with laughter, although it is not the first time, that he hears that the rats eat
the iron, the iron works.

Sun returns home to Gösta Ekeby, and the Cavaliers look to the few dark faces Zentner, which are in
stock, and they bow their heads full of sorrow and shame, for they
hear all of nature laughing at Ekeby scorn, and to hear to believe,
as the earth shakes with sobs as complaining the grass and the flowers
that it is made with the honor of Ekeby.

* * * * *

But why so many words and so many wounds? Since the iron from Ekeby!

Because it loaded on barges on the banks of Klarelfs is ready hinabzusegeln
the river, ready, in Karlstad weighed in the balance and went on a
Wenernschute to Gothenburg.

So the honor of Ekeby is saved!

But how is that possible? In Ekeby's only a few hundredweight of iron, and on the six other courts
had found nothing.

How is it possible that heavily laden barges now perform an unprecedented amount of iron as
the balance in Karlstad do? Yes, then you have to the Cavaliers ask.

The pensioners are even on board the heavy, ugly cars, they want the iron itself bring Ekeby of Gothenburg.
No ordinary Fährknecht may accompany the iron. With Bottles and food baskets, French horn and
violin, with guns and fishing lines and playing cards Are the Cavaliers went on board. You want
to do anything for her dear iron and it does not leave before it
is disembarked on the quay in Gothenburg.

You want to delete itself and unload, do sail and oar handle. They are quite likely to such a task
to solve. Is there probably a sandbank in the river, a cliff in Wenersee, they do not know?
Do not hand the wheel and the sail cloth just as adroit as the violin and reins?

None of the pensioners has remained at home. Eberhard has left his desk, and Cousin Christopher
is creeping out of the oven area. Even the gentle mountain lions is with it. No one can hold
back, where it is the honor of Ekeby.

But it is not good for mountain lions to see the Klarelf, thirty-seven years has been he had not seen,
and as long it is since he has recently been in a boat. He hates the bright surfaces of lakes
and rivers gray. He must at all too sad things Think when it comes to water, so he avoids it, but
now he has can not keep at home. He also has to be there, where there is a question of honor
to save from Ekeby. Thirty-seven years ago had Lowenberg drowning his fiancee in Klarelf , See,
and since that time, his poor head was often confused.

But as he stands there and looks down into the stream, his poor brain is clouded more and more.
The gray stream which flows with many small, glittering waves, is
a big snake with silvery scales that lies and lies in wait for prey.

The tall, yellow sand bank with sparse Tufts of grass, through which the river bed to be drilled are
the walls of a pit, on the bottom of the snake is lurking, and the broad road that breaks a
hole in the wall and through deep sand to the ferry hinabschlängelt, in addition to the barges vertäuet
lie, is the entrance to the terrible murder pit.

And the little man stands there and stares with his little blue eyes. His long white Hair blowing
in the wind, and his cheeks, usually dyed a soft rose shimmer, are
pale with fear.

He knows as surely as if someone had told him that someone will be
there soon come from the road and plunge into the jaws of the snake
is lurking.

Now, the Cavaliers prepared to repel from the shore. To access the long rods to push into the
barges in the river, but as calls mountain lion, "Stop!

For God's sake; stop! "

They understand that it starts to get confused, because he feels like
the barge swings that can but fall involuntarily the rods, and he
sees how the power lies in wait for prey, and that one necessarily
has to come and take the plunge, displays a warning Movement on the
highway, just as if he saw someone come.

We all know that life so often brings about a meeting like that, what followed. Who can even
wonder, may wonder about the fact that the pensioners on the very
morning of the on the night followed, in which the Countess Elisabeth
on the walk go to the East has to lie with their barges on the ferry
that crosses the Klarelf.

       But it would but are still far been strange if the young woman found
no help in their distress would have.

It happened just so that she, who had traveled all night, just in the Moment on the ferry came
when the Cavaliers were about to be launched from the shore. They remained motionless, watching her
as she spoke to the Fährknecht who made his boat afloat. She was
wearing peasant clothing, and they had no idea who she was.

But she still stared at her, because they seemed so familiar. As they stood there and spoke
with the Fährknecht, was A dust cloud on the road visible, and came out of the dust cloud out
a large yellow Carriage.

She knew immediately that it came from Borg, and that she had gone out in order to Seeking and
that they would now be discovered.

She could not remember the ferry to escape, and the only hiding place she saw, were the barges
of the Cavaliers. She rushed toward it, without seeing who was on board. And it was good that they
do not saw, because then she would have rather thrown under the horses'
hooves as her refuge made to them.

When she came on board, they shouted was: "I Verbergt! Hide me, "and then stumbled she fell
and the iron load. The pensioners but they asked to be quiet. They pushed quickly from the shore,
so that the barge was in the rapids and to Karlstad to drive. Straight at the very moment the
carriage arrived at the ferry.

In the car sat Count and Countess Marta Henrik. Now the count ran
to the Fährknecht to to ask whether he had seen the Countess.

As Graf and Henrik was embarrassed but not after a ask runaway wife liked, he said only: "It
is something gone!"

"Really?" Said the Fährknecht.

"Something is missing. I wonder if he has seen something? "

"What you ask?"

Yes, that's all the same! But something is missing. I just wonder if anyone on it today the current
has set? "

On the way he was, of course, know nothing, and the Countess Marta had even with the Boys speak.
A minute later, she knew that the missing persons on board one of
the slow gliding barges was.

"What kind of people there on the barges?"

"Oh, those are the pensioners, as we call them."

"Oh," said the countess. 'Is yes, then lifted your wife well, Henrik! Then we can just like the same
turn around. "

* * * * *

Out on the barge there was just no such great pleasure, as the Countess Marta believed had. As long
as the yellow carriage was visible, the frightened young woman sat
huddled on the ship's load, without moving or saying a word.

They only stared down into the water.

They probably saw the Cavaliers until they turn around saw the yellow carriage. You jumped up.
It was as if to flee again, but it was from the first standing stopped and then fell quiet
with complaints again on the load.

And the Cavaliers did not dare to talk to her or asking her questions. It looked as they stand
on the brink of insanity.

Then began the feeling of responsibility, the burden on care-heads. This alone iron was a heavy
burden for unusual shoulders, and now they should even appreciates the concern take for a young
lady of noble birth, her husband had escaped.

As this young woman she had met at the festivals of the winter, had
the one and the other of them must think of a young sister whom he
had once loved.

If he playing with her proven his strength, he had to handle it carefully, and if He spoke
to her, he had to watch out for is to not use ugly words. Had a strange boy in the game to three
wild chased after her and her songs even ugly sang, he had thrown
himself in infinite bitterness over the boy and his nearly beaten
the life out of the body, for his little sister would hear no evil,
should experience no suffering, should neither hate nor come into
contact with hostility.

Countess Elizabeth was the sister of all the happy cavaliers.

If it maintains its small Hands in their hard fists had settled, it was as if to say, "Feel how
frail I am, but you're my big brother and you give me against others and against yourself . Protect
"And they had been chivalrous gentlemen, as long as they had seen
them.

Now they saw the Cavaliers with horror and did not recognize them
again.

She was careworn and emaciated, the neck had lost its roundness,
his face had become transparent.

She had probably met with their nightly walk, because bubbled from time to time a drop of blood
from a small wound in the temple, and the curly, blonde hair, it
hung in the forehead was glued together with dried blood.

Her dress was dirty from the long hike on dewy paths, and her shoes
were badly damaged.

The pensioners had an eerie feeling that this was a stranger.

The Countess Elizabeth, who knew them, was not as wild, burning eyes had. Your poor little
sister was almost to madness driven.

It was like fighting a soul that had descended from another world to the rule in that emaciated
body.
But they need not have to worry about what to do with her. The old
ideas in her wake. The temptation has seized her again. God willing
they try again. See, she is among friends. Does it have the intention,
the path of repentance to leave?

She jumped up and shouted that they
should continue.

The Cavaliers, they tried to calm her. They told
her she could be calm. They wanted they already protect against any
prosecution.

She asked only whether they should not get into the
small boat that tied back to the barges had to row to land and continue
their journey alone.

But she could not even let her go. What should
be only of her? It was better when she stayed with them. Well they
were just poor, old men, but they would have means and Find ways to
help her.

Then she wrung her hands and begged them to let them go.
But they could not please her . Meet They saw that she was ill and
weak that they would die on the highway.

Gosta Berling was standing
some distance away from her and looked down into the water. Maybe
the young woman would not see him much. He did not know, but played
his thoughts and laughed. "Now, nobody knows where it is," he thought,
"now we can use it with to Ekeby . Take We want to keep hidden there,
we gallants, and we do all right against they are. It will be our
queen, our sovereign, but no one should know that they there is. We
do so well guarded so well! Maybe she can be happy among us; all the
old become a paternal solicitude for them to feel like a daughter.
You will make us human, we will drink almond milk and speak French.
And if our year is up, what then? If time will tell! "

He had never
dared to explain it himself, whether he loved her. He could not without
Have sin, and he did not want to pull something down low, or bad,
the was all he knew. But for them to hide on Ekeby and be good against
them, may now that the others had been bad, let them enjoy everything
in life Has good, oh, what dreams, dreams which blessed!

But he woke
from this dream, for the young countess was full of despair, and her
words had the piercing sound of desperation. She had been in the midst
of the pensioners thrown to his knees and implored them to fortzuhelfen
her.

has "God forgive me yet," she cried, "let me go!"

Gösta saw
that none of the others, was able to obey her, he saw that he do it
needed. He, who loved her had to do it.

It was going so hard for
him, as if every joint of his body resistance against his Sake bar,
but he dragged himself to her and told her that he would bring to
the bank may.

She stood up immediately. He carried her down into
the boat and rowed it to the eastern shore. He landed on a narrow
bridge and helped her out of the boat.

"What now of you are, ma'am,"
he said.

She got serious and showed the finger to the sky.

"If women
should Countess in trouble ..." He could not speak. The vote failed
him, but she understood him.

"I'll let you know when I need you."

"I
want so much shielding from all evil," he said.

She gave him her
hand in farewell, and he was unable to say more. Cold and her hand
lay limp in his.

The countess had meaning only for those inner voices
that forced them to alien people to go. They hardly knew that the
man she left now, just one who was the she loved. 

The priest was young, tall, slim and radiantly beautiful. Give him a helmet would have put him
on the head and vice hang a sword and a harness, he would be the best subject for a marble statue
was to be safely under the most beautiful of all Greek could nominate.

The priest had deep eyes of a poet and the strong, round chin, a military commander. Everything
about him was beautiful, expressive - glowing with genius and intellectual life.

The people in the church felt strangely depressed when she saw him so. They were accustomed to see
him come out fluctuating step out of the inn in society jolly fellow as Colonel Beer Creutz with
the thick white mustache and captain Bergh with the enormous physical
strength.

He had such a surrender to the trunk, that he several weeks his office no longer had been able
to provide, and the community about him had had to lodge a complaint, until his Provost and then
to the bishop and cathedral chapter.

Now was the bishop came to Visitation to hold in the community. He sat in the choir with its golden
cross on his chest. The preacher from Karlstad and the surrounding communities were all around
him.

There was no doubt that the conduct of the pastor crossed the limits
of the permissible had. play this story in the twenties of this century
- to those days - They took it not as accurate when people were drinking,
but this man had his due Drunkenness neglected his duties, and he
should lose it.

He stood on the pulpit and waited as the last Gesangvers was sung.

As he stood there, the certainty came over him that he in the whole Church, in all chairs had nothing
but enemies.

The rule in the box above, the peasants down in the church, the confirmation
in the choir - they were all his enemies.

An Enemy played the organ, and an enemy entered the Bellows. All hated him, from small children
who were carried into the church, down to the sexton, a stiff, burly soldier who participated
in the Battle of Leipzig had.

The priest would throw himself on his knees and let them beg for mercy.

But soon he felt a dull resentment. He remembered very well how he had been was a year ago when
he first ascended to the pulpit. At that time he was a respectable Man, and now he stood there
and looked at the man with the golden cross, who had come was to execute him.

While he said the prayer, a wave of blood rolled down his face after another - the was the resentment.

True,
he had been drinking, but who had a right to accuse him because of that? Had someone seen
the parsonage, where he should live?

The pine forest ranged dark and scary right up to the window. The moisture dripped from the black
ceiling, and spearheaded the moldy walls down. He is not required of liquor to maintain the courage
when the driving rain or snow through the broken windows penetrated to him, if the poorly ordered,
neglected ground bread did not give enough keep the hunger?

In his opinion, he was just been a minister, as they deserved it.

They drank yes all. Why should he be the only one who was doing the coercion? The man, his wife
bury, had got drunk at the funeral feast, the father who brought his child to baptism had stopped
after a drinking bout. The congregation drank on the way home from church, that most of them were
intoxicated when they arrived home. The was a drunk Pastor good enough.

On the official travel, when, in his thin coat many miles long across
the frozen lakes rushed, was the rendezvous where the winds gave on
his journeys over these same lakes in open boat during a storm and
rain, in snow, when he had to rise from the slide have to shovel a
path to his horse by towering snow jumps, or if he by the baseless
forest Moore had to wade through - as he had learned it, the spirits
to love.

A day after another had then dragged dark and heavy. Peasant and nobleman were tied as it were
from the dust of the earth, but in the evening had shaken off its shackles the mind, released
by the spirits. The inspiration had come. The heart was warm, life radiant, singing sounded, and smelled
roses. Since it was the bar-room at a Rose Garden grown in southern
clime.

Grapes and olives were hanging over his head, marble statues shone through the dark foliage, philosophers
and poets wandered under the palm trees and plane trees.

No, he, the priest up there in the pulpit, knew that life in this region of the country not endure
without brandy was, all his listeners knew that, and now they wanted him addressed.

They were not going to tear off the robe, because he was drunk came
into the house of their God.

Hah! - All these people had, because the - wanted to imagine for example that they God had
another as the brandy! -

He had spoken the opening prayer, and bent down now to pray the Our Father.

There was dead silence in the church during the prayer. Suddenly attacked the pastor with a firm
hand to the tapes, that the gown was held together. He was as when the whole community crept up with
the bishop at the head of the stairs to the pulpit came to him to tear the robe. He was on his knees
and turned not to the head, but he could feel it tugging at the tapes, and he saw so clearly, the
provosts, ministers, Church leaders and the sexton and the whole
town in a long line, with all his might tugging and pulling to herunterzubekommen
the gown.

And he could so clearly imagine, Like all those who now so eagerly pulled one over the other
hinabpurzeln the stairs would when the robe gave way, and the whole
series down there, which could not mitzerren to each other only to
the coat-tails plucked - all of them would coprecipitation.

He saw so clearly that he was about to laugh out loud, while there on my knees was, but at the
same time he stepped into a cold sweat on the forehead.

It was too horrible!

To the sake of brandy and it should be a depraved man!

A deposed priest - It was something shameful here in the world?

He could be a beggar on the road, drunk at the grave of the edge lie in tatters dressed to go
to keep the vagrants. - - -

The prayer was over. Now he should keep his sermon.

As a thought came over him, he held back the word on the tongue. He remembered that he now for the
last on the pulpit and had the honor of God praise and honor.

For the last time - that moved the pastor deeply. He forgot the spirits
and the bishop.

He had to take this opportunity to bear witness to God's glory.

It was as if the floor of the church were sinking into a deep abyss, as will the roof the church
is lifted, so that he could look directly into the sky.

He stood alone, all alone in his pulpit, and his mind got wings and flew up to the open sky,
His voice was strong and mighty, and he proclaimed the glory of God.

He was a man of inspiration. He had worked out the sermon are the
thoughts fluttered down to him like a flock of tame pigeons.

It was as if talking about someone else, but he felt same time that
this was the highest that there is on earth, and that no one in gloss
and Glory could go higher than he, as he stood and proclaimed God's
honor.

As long as the tongue of fire of inspiration glowed over him, he talked,
but when she had gone out and the roof had again descended upon the
church, and the floor of the deep Abyss was lifted, as he knelt down
and wept, for he was aware that he life had given his finest hour,
and that was over now.

After the service, should a council and an investigation be held.

The Bishop asked if the town had to lodge a complaint about their pastor.

The priest was no longer angry and defiant as before the sermon. Now
he felt ashamed and lowered his head.

Oh! Now, these stories miserable spirits are served!

But it was not a single one. It was very quiet around the large table in the community room.

The
priest looked up, only to the clerk's over - no, nothing that, then the church leaders and
then to the farmers and the iron works owners - they were all silent.

They kept the lips pressed tightly together and looked down at the
table, half embarrassed.

Wait, that one should make a beginning, thought the priest.

One of the church warden cleared his throat.

"I think that we have a good priest," he said.

"The Lord has indeed heard Bishop himself, as he can preach," chimed the clerk.

The bishop said something to frequent failure of the sermon.

"The pastor can still be just as well as other people get sick," said a farmer.

The bishop suggested that we put into the community offended by the
lifestyle of the pastor have.

As they defended him all in one breath. Your pastor is still so young, to be nothing to say.
No, if he only wants to preach just as today, they wanted him lend themselves to the Lord not Bishop.

There
was not a plaintiff, not a judge.

The priest felt his heart expanded, how easy his blood through the
veins flowed.

He was thus no longer enemies, he had won it, as he at at least thought he should also remain
in office!

After the visitation of the Bishop dined, the provosts, the minister and the chief of the Congregation
in the Presbytery. A neighboring pastor's wife had undertaken to make the landlady; because the pastor
was unmarried. She had everything arranged in the best, and for the first went his eyes to the fact
that the parsonage in fact was not so uncomfortable.

The long lunch table outside was covered under the fir trees and
festive glittered with snow-white Gedeck, the white and blue china,
glasses and the artificially established napkins.

Two birch trees were planted at the entrance, the floor was strewn with juniper branches, from Rafters
hung a wreath of flowers in each room were flowers, the moldy smell was distributed, and the green
window panes sparkled merrily in the sunshine.

The pastor was so glad at heart, he vowed to himself, never to drink again.

On the whole bar saw only happy faces. The men, who earlier had been generously were pardoned
and had were glad, and the pastor and provosts were happy because of scandal avoided happy.

The
good bishop raised his glass and said he had begun this journey with a heavy heart, because it is evil
rumors were penetrated to his ear.

He had set out to find a Saul But, behold, Saul was from the already become a Paul, who would
work more than any other. And the pious Lord said of the rich gifts that get her young brother have,
and praised them. He should not be arrogant, but harnessed all his powers and watch out, as
it is proper to, the one so very heavy and costly burden on Wear
the shoulders.

The pastor did not get drunk on that afternoon, but he was still intoxicated. The large, unexpected
good fortune went to his head. The sky was the tongue of fire of inspiration to him flame can, and people
had given him her love. The blood was a more fever hot and fiercely through the veins, when
evening came and the guests left him.

Until late into the night he sat in his room and the night air was through the open window
flocking to the happiness of fever, to cool them shouting unrest that did not sleep was.

Then he heard a voice: "You wake up, Father?"

And on the lawn, a man approached the house. The priest looked out
and saw the strong captain Christian Bergh, one of his loyal drinking
companion.

One of wandering Man without house and home, this captain was Christian, and a giant shape and physical
strength, big as a mountain and dumb as a mountain spirit.

"Of course I wake up, Captain," replied the priest. "Do you think this was a night when which
one could sleep? "

Now hear what he tells Captain Christian. The giant has had his suspicions, he has understood that
the pastor will spare henceforth drink.

He would never rest have made over these pastors Karlstad, they once existed and could come
back any time and him if he fell into his old truck, take off the robe.

Now, however, had captain Christian in the affair with his strong
hand, he had made it so that return no priest, no sample and no bishop
would.

In the future, could drink the pastor and his friends there at the rectory, as they wished, for
the Master has performed a heroic act.

increased as the bishop and three priests in a closed carriage and were one the doors had been
closed behind them, because the captain had put on the box and they drove a mile or two in
the bright summer night. And he had had to feel what it is to sit
there with their lives in their hands. He had then rush the horses
at breakneck gallop . Let This was their punishment because they begrudged
an honest man, is a noise . To drink

Do you think he stayed on the
highway? Do you think he was embarrassed, them soundly churn? He drove
over ditches and stubble, he slipped in the gallop Down hill, he turned
into the lake, so that the water splashed up over the wheels, and
he let the vehicle go down mountain slopes, so that the horses placed
before the front legs stiff and allowed to slide. And the whole time
they sat the bishop and the clergy with pale faces there and murmured
prayers. A worse trip, they had never experienced.

And you can imagine
how they looked when they arrived at the inn to Rissäter - lively,
But like hailstones shaken in a leather bag.

"What this does mean,
Captain Christian," asked the bishop, when he opens the car door.

"It
means that the Lord Bishop, the matter should think twice before he
returns to Visitations to Gosta Berling's coming, "says Captain Christian,
and the sentence he had previously done and learned by heart, so as
not to get stuck in the text.

"Then greet only Gosta Berling and
tell him to come to him, neither I nor any other bishop ever again.
"

This tells the heroic captain of the high priest, while in the
bright summer night standing before his open window. For the captain
has just delivered the horses at the inn and then proceed with an
innovation to the vicarage.

"Now you can be calm, loving brother,"
he said. 

Oh, Captain Christian, probably the priest sat with pale
faces in the car, but the Pastor here at the window, staring with
a much paler face in the light summer night out. Oh, Captain Christian!

The
priest raised his arms up and sent on to the giant a huge impact to
enable the coarse, silly face, but he changed his mind. With a loud
roar, he suggested the window and was middle of the room, raised his
fist threateningly toward heaven. 

"Mother, I tell you, if you marry me with him, you part me from God.

"I have decided to make your fortune, says the Countess. I am convinced
that with you this man to be happy.

It is you, did not have succeeded to make him a saint.

"I have decided to overlook the class difference and to forget that
he is poor and despised, to give you the opportunity to save him.

I feel that I do what is right. You know that I despise all the old prejudices.

"But all things she says just because she does not like that someone
opposes their will.

Maybe they meant it when she said it. From Countess Marta is not easy clever be.

"The young girl was lying on her bed long after the countess had left her. She fought her battle.
The ground level with the sky, love rebelled against love, but the lover of her childhood was
the day. Where it was - it was here on the Sofa - they saw the glowing western sky at sunset.
She believed that it is a Greetings from the good King was, and she had no strength to remain
faithful to him, if they would live, so she decided to die.

She could not help because her mother demanded that they should belong to a man who was not a good
servant of the king.

She went to the window, opened it and let the damp, cold evening air her poor, weak Body by iron.

"She
was easy to incur death. It was inevitable if the disease is again
stopped, and she did.

"No one but me knows that they investigated the death, Elizabeth. I found her at the window. I
heard their delirium. She wanted me in recent days to retain on their side.

"I saw her die, I saw her in that evening hour, the hands to the glowing evening sky and divorce
with a smile, as though someone they stretch from the splendor of the sunset and come out to
see her meet. I had him, she had loved her last Greeting deliver.
I should ask him to forgive her, that she not be his wife could.

The good King did not want to allow.

"But I have not had the courage to tell the man that he was her killer. I have not had the
courage to put him to the weight of such anguish on his shoulders. And yet - he, of their love
to surreptitiously through lies, he was not her killer? Was he not, Elisabeth? "-

The young countess has long since ceased to play with the blue flowers.

Now raises they, and the branch falls to the ground.

"Anna, you lead me all the time behind the light.

You say it was an old story, the man was already long dead, but I
know very well that barely five years since Ebba Dohna Death have
passed, and you say yes, that you yourself have experienced.

You are not old! - Tell me now who is the man!

"

Anna Stjarnhok starts to laugh.

"You did indeed have a love story!

Now you got one that you both tears and unrest has cost. "

"Is the story because it not?"

"It's a pipe dream from beginning to end!"

     "You're disgusting, Anna!"
     
     That may be. " I am also not happy to let you just
     know it! - But the ladies are awakened, and the gentlemen
     came into the room. Let us go! "
     
     In the door keeps Gosta Berling back, who came to check
     on the young ladies.
     

     "You have to be patient with me," he says, laughing.
     "I do not want more than ten minutes To torture but now you
     have to listen to some verses! "
     
     He tells them that he had dreamed in the night as lively
     as ever, and that He had dreamed that he had written
     verses. He whom the people called the "poet", even though he
     nicknamed this been borne entirely deterministic as no fault was
     in the middle of the night got up and had, half asleep, half awake
sat down to write.

     And in the morning he had a whole poem displayed on the desktop.
     He had himself never have believed such a thing! Now, the
     Women's hear it. And it reads:
     
     "The moon rose, and with it came the hour, Engenders in the soul
     the dream thoughts. Lit by moonlight, the bright silver
     certificates Shines the porch roof for every man, tendrils of vine
     leaves. In the winds of the lily cup varies from sniffing rocks.
     On the veranda steps, for an evening round Are united young and old,
and old songs way The still lives in the heart ertönet, gentle and
quiet, As further time greeting in solemn hour.

     
     
     From her Resedabeet us umwehn sweet scents Whispering shadows
     floating up out of the bushes, branches On the grass
     surface, moistened by overnight dew: So the Spirit Strive to rise
     in heaven's heights From the body to the night light that
     shines eternally us From the bright cloud, where a clear and
     clean the air And in the infinite space of the stars vanish
     from view.

     O, who can overcome the silence of the night the feelings urge When
     shadows draw near him and intoxicating scents of the flowers!
     
     Like the withered leaf, the tired senket to earth, Quietly
     fluttering there, if you bloom the rose accomplished Not
     bent by the storm: then want as we go, How verhallet the tones
     sound, when our life ends to Still and silent, as in autumn the
     leaves blow in the wind. And satisfied with the way God as gelenket,
     Our annual target and the path that we should move down here: Death
is life's reward, so let us depart in peace, As the rose leaf wilting
on the ground softly to senket.

     
     
     Past, the bat flew silently on their wings And back in the
     moonlight at a rapid zigzag flight, And as she flutters back
     and forth, rising in our hearts The old riddle unsolved
     for fools as Kluge The mystery, as heavy as grief and sorrow, as
     old as the love of pain: Where is our life, where he
     will bring us If we do not walk here on earth in woods and
     fields?

Alas, no one can guide the path of the mind probably the other; Rather 'it still shows the way
the bird's light wings.

And clinging tightly to me, she puts my hair and cheeks, She who loves
me, to my breast and speaks in a low whisper: 'In other worlds will
never entschweben the souls of all, And if dim shadow of death, my
eyes may, For you, you want hot lover, I still live on: Of a good
man's heart is then enveloped my spirit!

" Oh, what pain, so severe suffering, so anxious to take pain!

They die! - And for the last time I will tell her today: 'I love you!

" and kiss on the mouth and hair and cheeks!

Years faded away - yet often in the early hours of I search the place
to me, where I once sat caressing, Where my mouth they kissed, but
I see illuminated by the moon Hell the porch roof, then I can never
forget As the moon is seen that tears moistened her eyes, As she spoke,
from the vagina, the beloved, with trembling lips.

Oh, the memories torment!

How can I atone for the sin That the storm I gazed into the breast
to the innocent child And it tied to me in that unhappy hour!

"

Gosta, "Anna says in a jesting tone, while the fear together constricted
her throat.

"One said of you that you have experienced more poems, as others
have written that it is occupy their lives with nothing more, but
you sure do best on your own Way to write poetry: the poem as night
work "!

"You're not a gentle judge."

"And something to read of the death and misery! Are not you ashamed? "

Gosta do not hear more on their speeches, he looks intently at the young countess. She sits rigid
and motionless as a statue. He believes that she is about to faint.

But with infinite pains it brings out a word: "Go," she says.

"Who should go? Should I go? "

go to "The priest," she stammered.

"Elizabeth! Be quiet. "

"The drunk priest to leave my house!"

"Anna! Anna! Asks Gosta. "What does she mean it?"

"It is best if you go, Gosta."

"Why should I go? What does this mean anything?

"

"Anna," says Countess Elisabeth, "tell them, tell it to him."

"No, countess, say so myself!"

The Countess grits his teeth and looks of their movement under control.

"Mr. Berling," she says, and goes up to him, "You have a remarkable talent, the people forgot to make, who
you are. I did not know to this day. I hear tell just by Ebba Dohna death and found out that only
the certainty that the Man she loved, was not worthy of her, she has driven to death. From
your poem I see that you are the man. I do not understand how a man of your past allowed to be seen
before the eyes of a respectable woman. I do not understand, Mr. Berling. If I have been clear
enough now? "

"Countess are clear enough now. I just want a single word in my defense
.

Say I have lived in the firm belief that you knew everything about me. I have never tried something
to hide, but it is not pleasant, the bitter misfortune of his life on streets and listen to hawk
streets, let alone to trumpet it himself.

"

He goes, and at the same moment is Countess Dohna the narrow foot on the bouquet blue stars.

"Now hast thou done what I wanted," said Anna Stjarnhok hard to the countess, "but now It has also
an end to our friendship. You must not think that I will thy cruelty forgive him against going.
You have rejected him from you, have mocked him and hurt and I followed him into prison, like
the beggar bank if it must be. I want him guard and preserve. You have done what I wanted, but
I'll never forgive you! "

"But Anna, Anna!"

"When I told you all that, you believe that I did with a joyful sense? I not sitting here and I
ripped the heart piece by piece from the breast? "

"Why didst thou for it?"

"Why?

Because I did not want to - because I did not want that he is the lover of a married Woman
should be. "

Mademoiselle Marie

Ah, hush! St!

It hums above my head! That must be a bee that is flying.

But no, it was only still! What a smell! As I live, are not the Levkoien and lavender and lilacs and
daffodils? This is a real treat on this gray autumn afternoon in the middle of the city. When
I think of the delightful spot, it starts around around me to smell the same, and to hum, and before
I have confidence, I find myself middle of a small, square rose garden full of flowers, enclosed
by a Ligustrumhecke. In the corners are lilac bowers, with narrow wooden benches, and around the
flower beds, like stars and hearts are shaped, runs the narrow, covered
with white sand trail.

On three sides of the rose garden is surrounded by forest. Rowan and septic trees which semi-civilized
and have beautiful flowers, the garden are first and mix their fragrance with the the lilac
bushes. Behind them comes the birch, and then starts the fir forest, the right Forest, still
and dark, towering and bearded.

And on the fourth side is a small, gray house.

The Rose Garden, to which I now think was, sixty years ago the property
of the old woman Moraeus, who supported herself by embroidering.

She also went as a woman cooking on the surrounding Farms.

Dear friends! Of all the good that I wish you, I want first of an embroidery frame and name a
rose garden. A large, old-fashioned hoop of the type in which five or six people at a time
can work, where one competes, who is the rate- and has had whose other face is the prettiest
stitches, where to eat apples and social Play games and so while laughing, that the squirrels
fall in terror from the trees.

A hoop for the winter and a rose garden for the summer! Not a big garden, in which one must dig
into more money than it emporsproßt pleasure again, no one small rose garden you can cultivate
with their own hands. It must be small rose bushes middle of the beds are, and a wreath of
forget-me would have to walk to their loop, the large-flowered poppy, which sows itself, would
coiling everywhere, both in the lawn edge than in the gravel paths, and there would braungesengte
a grassy bank by the sun be grown on the back seat and columbine
and imperial crowns.

The old woman had all kinds of Moraeus. She had three happy, hard-working
daughters and a small House by the roadside.

She had a Notschilling silk on the floor of her old chest, thick Scarves, high-backed chairs and
experience in many kinds of things that are useful for those are, who must earn his own bread. But
the best of what she had, was of the embroidery frame, All of her years working there, and the
rose garden that gave her pleasure, as long as the summer lasted.

Then to report yet, that wife was in Moraeus' small house a tenant, a small, parched old maid of
forty years, a room on the gable Floor-lived. Mademoiselle Marie, as she was commonly called,
had their own views about many things, such as the one who easily gets a lot of sitting alone and his
thoughts all revolve around that which has seen the eye once.

Mademoiselle Marie believed that love is the root and the source of
all evil here in this world is sad.

There are "yes would the pure misery," she said. "I'm old and ugly
and poor.

No, God just keep me from being that I fall in love. "

They sat day in, day out on the bottom chamber in Women Moraeus' small houses profiled and curtains
and blankets.

They then sold to the farmers and on the estates in the area. She had soon zusammenfiliert an
entire small house, for a small house on the lookout hill Svartsjöer the church opposite, which
was her greatest wish, a house on top of a high Hill lay so that one could look far out into
the distance, that was her dream. By love but they did not know about.

When she heard echoing across the violin on a summer evening of the Cross, where the musician
sat on the fence and the youth leaped to the bars of the polka, that
the dust around them ears spun as it made a long detour through the
woods, just nothing to it see and hear.

On Boxing Day that the peasant brides were often five to six in number, to be dressed by Madame
Moraeus and her daughters when she and with Myrtenkränzen high, adorned
with glass beads decorated crowns, with belts made of silk and handmade
roses were down and the dress was covered with a garland of artificial
flowers, as she closed to her room, just to not see how they cleaned
out the love of honor.

When the sisters were sitting Moraeus on winter evenings at the hoop
and the large rooms of comfort emitted when the apples crackled in
the stove and when the beautiful Gosta Berling or Good Ferdinand,
who had come to visit, the girls teased, giving them the thread from
the needle moved or disturbed, so that they made crooked stitches,
and the room echoed with laughter, chatter and banter and the hands
under the hoop met, as they rolled to their annoying netting and went
up because they hated the Love and all that goes with it.

But the evil deeds of love she knew, and of which they knew to tell. She could not Understand
that God Cupid is still dared to show himself on the ground that
he had not can scare by the complaints of the Forsaken, the curses
of those he offenders made by the woes of all, he had forged in hateful
bondage.

She could not comprehend that his wings were able to take him so easily and freely, that he
was not sunk in an infinite depth, was weighed down by worry and shame.

No, she was young as others, but the love she had never loved.

     Never 'd be tempted to dance and caresses. Dusty
     and go without the strings Guitar her
     mother on the floor. She never sang love
     songs to her notes.

The rose trees her mother stood in her window. They barely watered.

She loved the flowers not, these children the love! The leaves hung
down dusty, the spiders spun their tissue between the branches and
the buds never departed. And in Madame Moraeus' Rose Garden, where
the butterflies fluttering and birds sang, where fragrant flowers
the butterflies swarming Best wishes, sent out all spoke of the hated
- because they put into it is rarely the foot.

Since it happened
once that the town Svartsjö an organ was put in her church. It was
in the summer before the year in which it ruled the Cavaliers. A young
organ builder came to town. He also hired a woman at Moraeus lived
in the second small gable little room on the ground.

And then he
turned to the organ that has such strange sounds, whose powerful voice,
trombone suddenly breaks out, no one knows where or how, in the midst
of a peaceful song she echoes, so that the children begin to cry in
church.

That the young organ builder was a master in his art, may
be yes. But a funny fellow he was, with sunshine in his eyes. He had
kind words for everyone, rich or poor, old or young. He soon became
a good friend of his household - oh, more than a friend!

When he
returned home the evening of his work, he kept Madame Moraeus the
yarn and worked on the side of the young girl in the rose garden.
Then he recited "Axel" and sang "Fritz". Then he took on Mademoiselle
Mary ball, how many times they dropped it too, yes even brought their
old Tafeluhr so ​​far that they went back.

He never left a ball without
having danced with everyone from the oldest woman to the youngest
little girl, and if he was concerned a misfortune, he sat down by
the first female character and made it his confidant. Yes, he was
a man like him create women in their dreams. I will not say that he
spoke of some love. But when he a few weeks in Madame Moraeus' small
gable little room had lived, were all Daughters in love with him,
and knew even the poor Mademoiselle Marie, that all of their prayers
had prayed in vain.

It was a time of grief and a time of joy. Tears
fell to the hoop and put out the chalk marks. For dinner is often
a pale dreamer sat in the lilac arbor, and above in smaller chamber
maid Mary, new strings attached to the guitar and their sounds old-fashioned
love songs are sung, which they had learned from her mother.

The
young organ builder, however, went around carefree and happy, smile
and scattered Services by this yearning women who fought for him when
he away from home with his work was. And finally came the day on which
he had to travel.

The car was facing the door, the luggage was already
charged, and the young man said good-bye. He kissed the hand of Madame
Moraeus, hugged the crying girl and kissed her on the cheek. He cried
himself because he was forced to travel because he had a bright summer
sun spent in the little house. The very last he looked around for
Mademoiselle Marie.

As they came in their best state to close the
bottom stairs. The guitar it was attached to a broad, green, silk
ribbon round his neck and in her hand she held a bouquet of monthly
roses, because this year the rose trees had taken her mother's flowers.

She
stood silent before the young man strumming on the guitar and sang:

"You're
traveling from us. Oh, come back once, We see you depart with pain.
Do not forget the friends in your happiness, We faithfully carry you
in my heart. "

Then she fastened the flower in his buttonhole, and
kissed him just on the mouth. Yes, and then they fled up the loft
ladder - the poor old man!

Love had revenge on her and made her a
laughing stock for all. They had this special, that their execution,
(assuming the moral possibility of it,) no mother a tear, and no people in the world more than
the sacrifice of his prejudices, and those passions which the causes are all private misery had
realized cost. Their Execution seemed to me, because I look at the portraits behind only individually,
and not in context presented and combined weights to be so light that I alone was astonished was
that a Pericles under the kleinfuegigen efforts to champion from Athens Greece to make, I can see
how much easier it is, it to the temple of eternal peace and to make the general bliss in the world.
This beautiful speculations gave several times the substance of the conversations from which I my
father in the evening time to used to shorten. The vividness of my imagination, it just seemed
to amuse as much as his heart, whose image he saw in the mine, on the virtuous sentiments vergnuegte
which he, like myself, (perhaps both a little biased) for the Drivers of my political dreams stopped.
Everything he told me of the difficulties of their Execution, he sat with the squaring of the circle
in a class that could say, convinced me as little as a lover the objections of a friend who
is in cold blood, to convince. I had an answer for all, and this new momentum that my enthusiasm
have had, soon became so strong that I could not wait to me in Athens, and in to see circumstances
where I get the first hand to this great work to which I have to be dedicated Send believed could.
"I confess to you, Dana, (and hope the religious duty to my Native city to not become insulting) that
the first sight with what I was expecting a strong sales made. My taste was too spoiled to the
mediocrity, which It also want to be, to find bearable, and he wanted to speak everything fine
in this line see included, in which flows along the sublime with the beautiful, and if he this
perfection of the individual parts was aware, he wanted all together agree and a self-similar
if, symmetrical whole should represent. From this Grade the beauty of Athens was, as perhaps
one every other city in the world, nor far, however, she had the good taste and a waste of
Pericles, made with the help of Phidias, the ALCAM, and of other great masters, in such a state,
they argue with the splendid cities of the political part of the world to test the preference could,
and I was rightly warned that the supplement and completion of what it by This page still lacking,
the easiest part of my designs, and a natural consequence will be those events that they,
in my imagination to life, the heart should the strength and the riches make of the whole earth.

Once
we arrived in Athens, let my father be his first concern me on a legality and public way for his son
to see, and the Athenian can take up to citizens. This made me a long time a subject of general
Attention. The Athenians are like you is not unknown, more than any other People in the world
inclined to sudden extremes with the liveliness for or against to have to take something.
I had the luck to please them at first sight, the Desire to see me, and to make acquaintance
with me, was a kind of epidemic Passion among the young and old,
those made recently in a brilliant court around me, and these preconceived
expectations of me which me without it on myself to be aware with
a secret pride fulfilled, and the too lofty opinion I already inclined
was to take from my destination is confirmed.

This subtle pride that is behind my best interests and virtuous sentiments concealed, and thus
my consciousness withdrew from behaving me nothing of modesty, which I am ahead of most young
People of my class seemed to me to differ, and I won this, besides the common Respect for the lesser
part of the people, the advantage that the chief of the wisest and Most experienced like me want
to have around, and I deal a lot with their special Knowledge telling, which I introduced early
in my presence in the Republic of well stead came. The purity of my morals, the good use I of
my time made, the zeal with which I am the future service of my country prepared to Visiting
the hard-working high schools, and the price I in exercise of the most more my age, it was:
All this combined to maintain the favorable bias, which they had once taken for me, and because
I still merits of my father, and a long line of ancestors paved the way for the Republic, it is
not surprising I reached an age where most Juengling beschaeftiget with their pleasures have
had the courage to act in public meetings, and the lucky, with a be added to applause, which put
me in danger, just as soon as I raised was lifted, so well by my own presumption, as by the
envy of my rival again to be overthrown.

The rhetoric is in Athens, and in all free states, where the people share in the public Administration,
the next way to honor, and the surest means, even without to gain the same prestige and influence.
I let myself to be very in place, to study the secrets of an art of pursuit and the degree
of skill, I would buy me in it, happy abzuhaengen the execution of all of my designs appeared.
Because when I thought, what Pericles and Alcibiades knew how to persuade the Athenians had,
If I did not doubt that I can with equal skill talking about would be able to measure recesses,
which, moreover, that noble in itself were, led to another splendid benefits without having to
be so uncertain and dangerous. With this view, I attended the school of Plato, who was then at
Athens in his larger See stood, and by the wisdom of Socrates with the eloquence of Gorgias and
Prodicus united in the opinion of my old friends, far cleverer than this Wortkuenstler, was to
form an orator, but by the strength of the truth than the illusions and submit a malevolent
dialectic artifice in the minds of his audience wanted. The familiar entrance, the famous granted
me this way, discovered an agreement with my way of thinking to his
principles, which the friendship that I for him, summed up transformed
into an almost schwaermerische passion.

You would cause damage have been if we would have thought of it already so just thought after seeing
by the publication of his metaphysical dialogues, people in government, and even in many,
was that his admirer was, the charge that what Aristophanes once (though hoechst unfair) made
the wise Socrates, is with better reason or more apparent had incurred. But at that time had neither
Plato's 'Timaeus' nor his 'Republic' written. However, this latter but already existed in his mind
they were very often the material to our talks in the academy from the walks, and he endeavored
the more eagerly, me his ideas about the best way to set up human society, and govern to make
own, as he hoped to have the pleasure, it at least in so far as circumstances would to see implemented
by me allow. His zeal in pieces like this so great have been when he wants, so he was certainly
not greater than my desire, that of exercise, which he speculated. But since my idea of ​​the importance
of the obligations which one takes upon himself, who mingle in public affairs, the Integrity
and internal goodness of my intentions was proportioned, and I keep the more by ambition, and removes
other selfish passions believed to be more certainly I was aware that I (if I had kept it for allowed
me to choose a about to leave my private life just tilt,) a Civic removed from the turmoil Leisure,
and dealing with the Muses, which I loved all at the same time, the honor of an entire world
master, would have preferred: So I thought I was not enough to be able to prepare, before I appear
on a theater where the first appearance commonly the luck of the whole Drama decides. I stood against
a number of occasions in which I aufzufodern seemed so well for him of penetrating my friends
than my own inclination, whether it is the same, since the Alcibiades with such success had made
a start, was no lack of young people which, without the talents of others, as the skill to arrange
a banquet to to dress neatly, to dance, and play the Cithare to have been made public, survey
were enough for a night durchgeschwaermten from the arms of a prostitute in the Assembly to hop the
people, and ointments dripping with gossip of taendelhaften talk to the infirmity of the state,
and the mistakes of the public administration.

Finally occurred, a case where the interests of a friend whom I loved excellent, all my scruples prevailed.
A mighty cabal had sworn his ruin; he was innocent, but the revisions were apparently against
him, the minds were taken against him; and fear, draw to face the anger of his enemies, held the
few who better he thought back to his to accept public. presented in these circumstances I, as his
counsel dar. I was convinced of his innocence, labored all these considerations, which put
off his other friends with me just the opposite. All Athens was carefully as it was known
that Agathon, the would occur Stratonicus son, to carry the matter in advance of the already
convicted Lysias. The affection which the people bore me to changed and suddenly the opinion that
one of this thing had taken, and the Athenians found a beauty of which she charmed all were in the
generosity and courage, which I (as they said) for me a friend explained, leaving the world
and had given the anger over and makes award of his enemies. We now did the most zealous vow
that I would like to be victorious, and the enthusiasm which one infected the other, was so
great that the other party was obliged the date of the decision as far beyond enforce, as it
was considered necessary to the heated to let tempers cool off again. They spared no tricks now,
so they are believed to assure the outcome, but the success thwarted all their measures recesses.
The acclamations, with which I received from a large part of the people cheered me on, I spoke
to a law-Tern courage than you normally expect from a young man was that spoke for the first time
before such a large assembly, and prior to a meeting, where the lowest workman is lawful for a connoisseur
and judge of eloquence held. The truth did here Wuerkung that it does all times when in their
own Light and with that vivacity, which is our own conviction of
the speaker, presented will they overpower all minds.

Lysias was acquitted, and Agathon, who now the hero of the Athenians, was accompanied home in
triumph. From that time I appeared more often in the public meetings, and the passion that the
people in focus for me had, and the applause that I was talking when I flew to meet me were encouraging,
now to participate in the general affairs section, and as the luck seemed to have decided forsake
me not to rest until it brought me to the top of the Republican Size would have, so I made
this new drive train as fast steps that in recent the favor in which I stood with the people,
the reputation of the most powerful at Athens in the balance received, and that my secret
enemies themselves to be agreeable to the people, were compelled, to increase and improve public
the number of my admirers. The death of my father, who at this time place, deprived me of a friend
and leader whose wisdom me in the dangerous Ocean of political life was essential. I was thus
in possession of large Riches set, with whom he had escaped only by envy, because he with great
Modesty used. I was not so careful. The use I made of it, was indeed noble and praiseworthy
in itself, and I wasted it, to do good, I supported all kinds of citizens who had come without their
fault in accident and my house was the Collection site of the scholars, the artist and the stranger,
and my fortune each stood to services it was required: but just this was what carried in the
episode my case. Man I would rather have kept too well when I do it with symposia, with prostitutes
and with a never-ending variety magnificent and extravagant festivities brought by would have.
However, it stood a good while before the jealousy, which I by such a Living Art in the minds of the
most distinguished among the nobles of Athens, attracted dared, break into visible Wuerkungen.
The people who had loved me just now started now to, to idolize me. The expression I use here
is not too strong, for there A certain poet, who used to be my table, easy to come up once, let in
a large and miserable poem to give me the Apollo to the father, found this myself ridiculous adulation
from the mob (which in any case far better than the miraculous Natural evident) so great applause,
that under gradually a kind of legend the people attached to what my mother attributed the honor of the
god at Delphi for their irritation have made sensitive to. This delusion was so excessive, so
it seemed likely my patrons from the lowest class, this alone they believed more than human
Perfections, which they attributed to me explain, and the absurd hope that they are made by me,
to be able to justify.
 Oh - they
acted now far more cavalier standard than before. They worked, and they wanted to continue to work,
but their reward should be to honor and not money.

On Sunday morning Gosta Berling Broby came after the church. The service had already started as a result it was
empty at the church, stood before the portal but a beaten up in a
hurry Coffin.

It was difficult Gosta Berling to pass by the coffin. He knew that the good captain Lennart rested
it, and it seemed as if he did block the way to church.

Gösta was one day and two nights in the forest umhergewankt, he had not eaten, was tired hungry,
exhausted from suffering. Now he had come to see the poor people in the church, because up there
in the solitude he had thought of the day when he Schandhügel on
the minister Broby sat on the night when he hosts the dark with the
corpse of the girl from Nygaard had seen to move away because it took
the desire, the servant and friend of the poor be.

Now he wanted to see them in church, to gather strength, so that he could serve them.

But he could not come over to Captain Lennart's coffin. It seemed to him as calling the dead him,
"Gosta Berling, how will you help the poor?

You haul, the consequences of all Evil that you have done, after you. For now you have, all that you
love, the fruits Harvesting of the disaster that you have sown. "

He approached the coffin and fell in front of the knee.

"Help me to be the helper of the poor," he said, "help me, that I
am the lover never makes trouble."

And once on the other he repeated, "Help me, I now no sorrow, no shame, poverty and other miseries
bring into this world! "

As a heavy hand on Göstas shoulder. Behind him stood Sintram.

Gosta do you want someone playing a clever trick, then lie down and die. There are nothing is more
refined, than to die, nothing that an honest man an angry line by the bill makes when he least
suspects. Lie down and die, I tell you! "

"That's also the best thing for me," said Gosta.

"For now, however, invent something, Gosta, so I can since the upset
in the coffin."

"Has he given up?"

"Of course he has! Look at me, my boy! I am a man betrayed Why had He is also so stupid and do
the best I have, so I believed in his folly, while he was clever enough, just at the right moment
to lie down and die. But he shall have his reward! I tear Flor and wreaths from his coffin, put
it forth, and kick with feet on it. "

"Not as long as I live," cried Gosta.

Sintram crossed his arms over his chest and looked up into the air, it was something of the terrible
majesty of this evil over their servants.

"It is my right," he said solemnly. "It was a great work, and the plan was sent down, and he
did not destroy him.

It was all Löfseer Harde.

If I had my Will to enforce the whole Harde would be ruined. What else have I it worked all year
round? I have driven the major's wife. I Melchior Sinclaire made miserable. I consider the
treasure of the priest of Broby hidden. I have the Cavaliers can govern. And now the people had become
so wild and unhappy that no one they could prevent themselves falling into ruin, no one, except
this man, of just the right moment, lay down and died. you saw it, my boy, sawest you know
it?

The farmers marched against the Westgotländer that Dalecarlians against the peasants; would
have provided only a second longer, if the whole market place in a large field of battle been
transformed.

Women and children were trampled, thrown to the products in the dirt been, robbery and murder had
lived.

Would Captain Lennart not died, would all arrived.

And afterwards, then the court would have come. Famine, a new insurgency, quartering they would
have been sucked out.

The whole Harde was so ugly, disreputable become so odious, that no one except the old Sintram
there might have been live.

Would not that be a great work been? "

"But what purpose would it all matter?"

Sintram eyes flashed lightning, as he replied: "I would have been a joy, because I 'm bad. I am the
bear in the mountains, I am the snow storm on the plane, my pleasure is to kill and prosecute.
Away, I say, go to the people and the work of man! I can not stand
it.

I can actually go between my mouth and jumps can make - can enjoy
myself a little while - but now I had the game tired of Gosta, now
I wanted to strike, now I wanted to destroy.

"

It would be insane, completely insane. He had long ago with a joke that Hell arts started, but
now had the upper hand over evil won it, now believed he himself, that he was one of the spirits
of hell.

Gosta Berling, however, who burned with zeal to help those in need was, by his words as if struck
by lightning.

"You know where the treasure is the pastor of Broby" he asked.

Sintram answered with a quick, watchful gaze. "You want perhaps the helper People are, Gosta? "

"Yes," replied Gosta, and he knew that it was best, with a man like Sintram the truth talk.

A glimmer of light flashed across Sintram face. "Look, look," he said, "because I want the in
Sarge leave quietly, because then I know a better revenge. "

"What did you take revenge? The best friend of the people is dead, and the need is as great
as before. "

"I tell you, all is lost. Just look away! See? Today I have the prison van get a carriage, and it has
cost me many tears, to persuade the Governor that he holds out while I am doing a prayer the
coffin of the pious man. "

Gosta and saw the prison van stopped at the churchyard wall, waiting for Sintram.

'I wanted here and thank the women captain that they yesterday in
old papers solicited in order to find evidence against me in the powder-conscious
history, and I then the authorities sent to his neck, just as I was
preparing for the funeral of this good Man to go.

But I will not touch the coffin, I can do something far better is. - Listen to me! You are probably
now true angel of God up there in Ekeby? If the daughter Broby the pastor gets her inheritance,
will you hand them out and then everything to the poor? "

"They want to use it to Ekeby up again and help the poor, she has often said. "

Sintram laughed to himself. "You knew your life for probably like to know where the gold is hidden,
Gosta?"

"Yes, I would like to know."

"Will you promise me, straight from here to where to go in the woods where the girl from Nygaard
himself to death fell, and falling off up there, I will tell you where the money is. It would
be so nice if you could die there, and then all would say that your terrible Remorse had driven
up to his death. "

"I have vowed not to take the life of me, as long as Anna Lisa is employed by the major's wife."

"Does
not," replied Sintram. "If you procure for her the money, it is not
so."

But now all seemed to Gosta Berling all the old and the new one to the tendon itself to unite
- to be allowed to die. It had never occurred to clarity between him and her, which he called his wife.
He was happy that he could serve her as the other Cavaliers, as it should be but when their time
was up to Ekeby, which he did not know. He did not even know if they return to their parents
or stay with him would. One But it was clear he could prove it no greater service than by
giving her her freedom reproduced, and for that he now had the best opportunity. Now he was
all his remorse get rid of and now he could fulfill the wishes of his best moments, he was God and
Serve people, all this and much more was in this beautiful, wonderful: to be allowed to die.

He
handed Sintram hand, and this was a bombshell.

"The money is in the church tower to Bro, under the floorboards near the sound hole," said Sintram.
"Care now but ensure that you are of the world before the evening comes, or I'll already up
so that the daughter of the pastor of their money even Broby reserves.

"

Now was a beautiful day for Gosta Berling. He went to church and thought, with solemn Pleasure
that he would give his life to help all these people. He went in the sacristy and wrote out
a notice that the work included in Ekeby again should be there and
that grain would be distributed to the poor.

And he heard the murmur of joy and wonder that went through the crowd, as the manifest after
the service was read. He also wrote a few words to his wife and told her where the treasure
find it. Against his will, ran on the spring, and he wrote a few words of Farewell, if they never
see each other should. He must do something to her demise to atone from Nygaard he wrote. Once
he had sent the letter, he wondered why he had actually written, and he regretted it.

The world had long appeared to him not as nice as on this day. After the service He spoke to Anna Stjarnhok
and Marianne Sinclaire. They asked him both to take steps and a man to be. He learned that Anna
had Stjarnhok feel comforted with the work; now they managed their own large estates, and
it was said of her that a second would be major's wife.

He felt that these two proud women suffered under the consciousness, need to be ashamed of the
man they had loved. Now, he thought, be they also pleased that I lay down my life to save all
the poor from their plight to Ekeby up again to its former glory.

After the service captain was buried Lennart. Since he died on market days, had the customer is widely
distributed, and thousands were the people flocked to the church. The entire cemetery, the
wall and the adjoining the church were field full of people.

The old Probst was sick and preached elsewhere. But to Captain Lennart's funeral, he had promised
to come. And he came with bowed head and in his own dreams deepened, as he now in his old age
used to be, and stood at the head of the funeral procession.

The Old man had walked in front of many funerals, he was looking up the familiar path without He
threw dirt on the coffin, performed the prayers and noticed nothing unusual. But the deacon sang
the song, it was sung by hundreds and hundred voices, men, Women and children were singing.
Then the old man awoke from his dreams.

He stroked the eyes, as if the sun blind him, and rose to the heaped mounds of earth to be
look around.

       He had never heard such singing in a grave, never such a Crowd of
mourners seen.

The men had placed the old, worn-out funeral hats, the women their
white aprons tied with wide pleats.

They all wore mourning, they wept and sang all.

The old Probst trembled with emotion. He felt a holy joy, when it's love People looked to the
deceased.

When the singing had died down, he stretched his arms to the people contrary. He spoke a few
words in a feeble voice, then stopped. Again began he did, but only the first standing hear
his words. But suddenly drew his voice Power and sound from the loving desire to comfort this
grieving nation.

He told his audience everything he knew about the Messenger of God. He reminded the fact that
neither external nor helped shine great fortune to this man to his
reputation had, but only the one that he has always walked in God's
ways.

And then he asked her to to do for God and Christ's sake a like. Everyone should love his neighbor
and to help him. Everyone should believe the best of his neighbor, everyone should act like
this good captain Lennart for therefore it needs no great gifts, but only a pious mind. And
he explained that everything that happened this year was a preparation
is to be the season of love and happiness that was imminent to them
now.

He had seen break out in those years often scattered radiation in human goodness; now they will
stand out as bright, shining sun.

He lifted up his eyes and hands and proclaimed peace to the country. "In the name of God," said
he, "the strife to hear! May peace dwell in your hearts and in all of nature! If the dead things
and the animals and plants will find peace and stop doing harm. "

And it was Gösta and all of them, when they heard a seer speak. Everyone wanted to love one another,
all wanted to be good. It was as if a man of God came, the power over all created things have.
A sacred peace descended on the earth.

It was as if illuminated the mountains, smiled as the valleys, and the autumn mist dressed
in rose shimmer.

Finally, he asked for a helper for the people. "It is a coming," he said. "It is not God's will
that you shall pass away now. God will raise up one of the hungry saturates, which directs
you to his ways. "

As Gosta felt that the old man spoke of him who sells his life as
early as the poor's sake had.

And many of those who had heard the announcement went home and told, now would it all turn
out well, but have praised the great pastor at Ekeby them to help.

Gösta but took the road in the western mountains and disappeared into the darkness of the deep
forests.

* * * * *

It was long before that year in which the Cavaliers prevailed on Ekeby.

The shepherd and the shepherd girls played together in the woods, houses built from flat Stones,
picking berries and cut elderberry flutes.

They were both born in the forest, there was their home, their empire. They lived in peace
with all that was in there just with the Servants and domestic animals
live in peace.

The kids called the lynx and the foxes their farm dogs, the weasel
was her cat, rabbit Squirrel and her playmates, bears and livestock
Elentiere her.

Owls, and grouse Bird sat in their farmers, the fir trees were their servants and their guests
at the young birch trees their parties. They did not know the caves where the Otter rolled
in hibernation lay, and when they bathed, they had seen the snake swimming through the clear
water, but they were afraid of snakes or even before forest spirits that belonged to the forest,
and that was their home. Nothing could scare them.

Deep inside the forest was the cottage where the boy lived. A hilly forest path led them to overshadowed
the mountains all around, gratuitous Moore were in the area and sent the whole Year through their
icy fog. For the inhabitants of the valley has such a very flat little enticing.

The shepherd and shepherdess once wanted to be over the years, man and woman, wanted to live
there in the cottage and live on their own labor. Before they married, but could, broke the
misfortune of the war came over the land, and the young man had to advertise. He returned home
with no wounds or physical infirmity, but the war years had given him for their whole life stamp
on.

He had too much of the wickedness of the world and the cruelty of the people seen against
their fellow human beings, so that now he not do good could see everything.

At first, to notice any change in him. He went with his love for youth pastor and ordered the
squad.

The cabin in the woods above Ekeby became her home as she has long since had imagined, but luck
should not live in this home.

The young woman went along and looked at her husband as a stranger. Since the war he returned home,
she had not been able to recognize. He laughed so hard, and spoke little. She was afraid of
him.

He did nothing wrong and was a diligent worker. But he was not popular because he trusted all
men to evil. He felt himself as a hateful stranger, were now the Animals of the forest's enemies,
the mountain that shadowed him, the mud, which sent its smoke, were
his opponents.

The forest is an eerie apartment for anyone who deals with evil thoughts
with.

Those who live in barren areas, must equip itself with a supply of
clear memories.

Otherwise he sees only murder and oppression among animals and plants, as it among people
has seen.

He expects evil of all that he encounters.

Jan Hoek, the soldier could not understand myself what it was, but he realized that everything
he went contrary. His home offered him little peace. The sons, who grew up there were strong,
but wild, hardy, brave men they were, but their hand was against all, like all the hand was
against them.

His wife was tempted by her grief, to explore the mysteries of nature.

In Bogs and thickets they sought healing herbs. It explores the nature of the Subterranean
and knew what sacrifices were necessary.

She could cure diseases, could good advice grant IPB. They had the reputation of possessing magical
powers, and was shunned, although the people proved very useful.

Once the woman took up courage and talked with the man about his grief. "Since you are in the
war went, you are "bewitched," she said. "What they've done to you?"

Then he went and was about to hit them, and so it went each time for
war mentioned.

He was as mad with anger. He did not tolerate that someone uses the word war uttered, which soon
became known, because the people there took care of this issue in eight.

But none of his fellow soldiers could say that he had done more evil
than others.

He had fought like a good soldier. Only all the horrors he saw, it had so impressed him that
he could now see only the bad. It seemed as if the All nature hate him because he had participated
in the like. Those who are better know, can console themselves that they are fighting for their
country and honor. What did he like this? He only knew that all hated him because he had shed
blood and violence practiced.

At that time, as the major's wife was expelled from Ekeby, he lived alone in his hut. His wife
had died and his sons had gone away.

But to market time the cabin was yet full of guests.

The dark-skinned gypsies came in there, they grow best at which, afraid of the people. Small,
long-haired horses arrived then climbed up the forest road, the cart full of tin utensils, children
and rags.

Prematurely aged women with from drinking and smoking tobacco from swollen faces and men with
pale, sharp Strong features and long limbs followed the car. When they arrived at the cottage, was
The cheerful mood, brandy and cards and show they carried with them,
they told of theft, horse exchange and bloody fights.

It was a Friday,
when the market started Broby and Captain Lenny was killed. The strong
Måns, the murderer was the son of the old into the cottage. As therefore
the Gypsies on Sunday afternoon up there sat together, they handed
the old Jan Hoek, the brandy bottle more often than usual, and talked
to him about prison life and prison food and interrogations, because
they knew.

The old man sat on the Haublock in the furnace area and
did not speak much. His large, lackluster Eyes staring out over the
wild crowd that filled the room. The dusk had fallen, But the flickering
pine wood lit up the room. It shone rags and misery and hardship

The
door opened softly and two women entered. It was the young countess
Elisabeth followed from the daughter of the pastor of Broby. Strange
it would seem to the ancients, as they adorable and radiant in her
gentle beauty came into the light of the fire. You told them that
Gösta Berling not since Captain Lennart's death was seen on Ekeby
. Let She and her girls had searched the woods all afternoon. Now
they might see that here were men who had wandered far and knew all
the roads. Had none of Gösta them noticed? She had come in to ask
if anyone had seen him.

Futile question. No one had seen him.

She
moved her a chair by the fire, she sank down on it and sat in silence
for a while there. The noise in the room was silent, all of them looked
at and wondered about them. Then was her uncanny silence, she started
and looked for an indifferent conversation.

"If I'm not mistaken,
you were a soldier," she said to the ancients. "Tell us something
of the war! "

The silence was just weird. The old man sat there as
he had heard nothing.

I would like to hear about the war, by one
who has been there with you, "said the countess. But she stopped suddenly,
as her companion she made a sign with his head. You had said something
inappropriate, and all in there staring at her as if she had against
the first propriety notices. Suddenly one of the women began a sharp
voice, "Is not that the former Countess on credit? "

Yes, she was.

"The
ought to do something better than running after the great priest in
the forest. Shame! "

The countess rose and said good-bye, they have
now rested enough. The woman, who earlier had spoken, escorted her
out.

"I wish the Countess to say is that I meant what I said not
at all from before Sun have. I had to say something for the old man
is furiously when he hears talk of war. I meant it's not bad. "

The
countess hurried on, but they soon stood still again. She saw the
threat of forest, shadow-casting mountain, the steaming swamp. It
must be scary to live here when the mind was filled with bad memories.
She had pity on the old man in there was that the only dark gypsy
society.

Anna Lisa, "she said," let us turn back! They were good
to us there in the hut, but I I am not listed as good. I want to talk
with the old over-friendly things. "And happy to have found someone
who could comfort you, they went back to the hut back.

"I'm afraid,"
she said, "that Gosta Berling going around here in the forest with
the thought of to commit suicide. Therefore, it is important that
you find him soon, and it prevents it. Anna Lisa and I have often
meant to see him, but he has vanished from us again and again. He
certainly keeps up near the hill where the girl was killed by Nygaard.
Since it was just me that I need not go back to all Ekeby for help
. Fetch There are so many strong men are that they can safely begin
Gosta Berling, "

"Up, men!" Exclaimed the woman. "If the Countess
does not consider himself too good, our People to ask for a favor,
you shall go their equal! "

The men rose and went out to search.

The
old Jan Hoek sat still and stared dull look to himself, so dark and
hard, that one could be afraid of him. The young woman wanted to come
up with not a word they to him could have been addressed.

Then she
saw that a sick child on a bed of straw and that was one of the women
a sick Hand had. Soon she began to help the sick. They soon became
familiar with the garrulous Women had to show the smallest children.  I presently found
there were no  less than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire they had  made, not
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather  being extremely hot, but, as I supposed,
to dress some of their  barbarous diet of human flesh which they had brought with them,  whether
alive or dead I could not tell. It was only a cramp, which had come loose, Eberhard and mountain lions but only
with great difficulty escaped death.

"You see clearly that he has no power over us," triumphed Lowenberg;?

Revenge "but will he, that's clear. "

And he called to Gosta Berling: "You go up to the women, Gosta. Perhaps it shows itself including.
They are not as accustomed as I like to see, they could easily be
afraid.

And beware, Gosta, for he is not you weighed, and perhaps he power of the vow for you. Who knows?
"

Later it was learned that mountain lions had been right and that Sintram died on Christmas Eve
was. Some wanted to know that he had hanged himself in prison. Others believed that the servants
of justice would have it completely in secret by put to death, for the investigation seemed to fail
in his favor, and it was so not him again about the rule to have won the Harde. Still others claimed
that a certain dark lord be with a black carriage with black horses came to him to get out of prison
and Lowenberg was not the only one who saw him on Christmas Eve. Also, he was seen in Fors
and Ulrika Dill former dreams. More than one said that he would have
shown him to Ulrika Dillner his body to the cemetery Broer convicted.

       They also let the evil servants of Fors distribute and introduced
a Christian government.

Now it haunts no longer there.

* * * * *

It is said that before Gosta Berling reached the court, a stranger
had arrived there and had submitted a letter to the major's wife.

No one knew the messenger, but the letter was carried into and placed next to the patient on
the table. Immediately afterwards came an unexpected Improvement is apparent, the fever subsided,
the pain decreased, and she felt well enough to read the letter.

The old man wanted only too happy to believe that this improvement
the influence of the dark forces was due.

Sintram and his friends could have advantage of it if the major's wife read this letter.

It was written with blood on black paper document. The pensioners would it probably have recognized:
it was written in the last Christmas night in the forge to Ekeby been.

And the major's wife was there now and read that they, seeing she
was a witch and cavalier souls sent to hell, had condemned, that I
may lose Ekeby.

This and similar follies las them. She looked at the date and signatures, and found at Göstas
with the following remark: "For since the major's wife, my weakness has taken advantage of me by
honest work to hold and to keep me as a minor at Ekeby praise since they led me to Ebba Dohna
murderer made by told her that I am a deposed priest, I'll sign. "

The major's wife slowly folded up the paper and put it in the envelope, then it was motionless,
thinking about what she had just learned. She realized with bitter Pain, that this was the
opinion of the people of her. A witch and a sorceress, she was for all those to whom it rightly
done, which they had been working and bread. This was her reward; this would be their reputation.
An adulteress she could trust nothing else.

But what she set out from this ignorant?

They had been away from her yet. But this poor Cavaliers, who had lived at their mercy and they
just knew they also believed it or did it as if they believed it
to have a pretext under which they Ekeby could seize.

Her thoughts quickly raced through her brain fever-hot, wild Anger,
lust for revenge burning in her eyes.

She left the pastor's daughter from Broby, the Countess Elisabeth
in her wake, a messenger to the estate manager and Högfors Inspector
send. She wanted to make her will.

Again she lay there and pondered.

Her eyebrows drew together, her face contorted weird pain.

You are very ill, Mrs. Ebba, "the countess said softly.

"That I'm sicker than ever before."

There once was a pause, but the major's wife said in a hard, sharp voice: "It's strange to
think that even Countess Elizabeth, who is loved by all, an adulteress is. "

The young countess shuddered.

"Yes, but not in deeds, but in thought and desires, and that makes no difference."

"I know, Mrs. Major's wife."

"And yet you are now become happy. You can use the one you love, have no sin; the black ghost
will not stand between you when you met each other now. Your you can also belong to the world.
You can walk through life side by side. "

"Oh, Madam Baroness."

"How can you dare to stay with him? Called" the old woman with increasing
vehemence.

"Repent! Good time doing penance! Journey home to your father and your mother, before they come
and curse. Do you dare to call Gosta Berling your husband? Go to him! I will Ekeby give him, I
will give him power and glory - you dare to share that with him? Dare you accept it, happiness
and honor? I ventured. Do you remember how it happened to me? Remember
you up to the Christmas feast at Ekeby?

Do you remember the prison in Munkerud? "

"Oh, Mrs. Major's wife, sinner, here we go side by side with no luck. I go along here and ensure
that the happiness is not indigenous to our stove is. Do you not, Mrs. Major's wife, that
I long for home? Oh, I long for the protection and bitter Support the parental home, but this
desire is never satisfied. I must stay here in Fear and trembling, and with the knowledge that everything
I do, leads to sin and sorrow, that I, if I help one, the other a safe mode. Too weak and too low
for Worldly life, I am forced to live there because I am bound to an eternal penance. "

! "With such thoughts we beguile our hearts," cried the Baroness,
"but that's weakness.

You do not want away from him, that's the thing. "

Before the countess could answer, Gosta Berling entered the room.

"Come here, Gosta," said the major's wife instantly, and her voice became even sharper and harder.
"Come hither, thou that thou shalt praised by the whole neighborhood! Come, you who want to,
that one up after your death should be called the Savior of the people.

Now you shall hear how it is your old major's wife has been given, you leave and wander about
in the land didst despise.

"First I want to tell how it happened to me when I came in this spring
to my mother; for thou shalt know the end of the story.

"In March I reached the courtyard in the Elfdalswäldern, Gosta. I did not look much different
from as a beggar. When I arrived, I was told, my mother was in the milk room. Then I went and
stood long in silence at the door. All around the walls in long braids were the bare copper
bowls with milk. And my mother, who had more than ninety years, took down a milk dish after
another, drawing from the cream. She was quick enough it, but I saw very well how hard it was,
hinanzureichen to the bowls of milk. I did not know whether she had seen me, but after a while
she addressed me with a peculiar sharp voice.

"'It is because you acted, as I have always wished' she said.

I wanted to talk and ask for forgiveness, but I did not help. She heard a word of it - they
was stone deaf. After a while, but she said: 'You can help me.

"

"And then I went and creamed the milk. I took the bowl in the right order down and put it all
into place and took a deep enough with the cream spoon, and she was satisfied. None of the
maids she can trust with the cream of the milk, I but knew from old times as they wanted.

"'This work can take you from now on," she said, and I knew that they had forgiven me.

"And then suddenly it was as if she could no longer work at once. She sat still in her chair and
slept almost all day. A few weeks before Christmas, she died. I would like to come earlier, Gosta, but I could
not leave the old man. "

The Baroness paused.

She was breathing hard, but it took courage and went on:

"It is true, Gosta that I wanted to have you here with me in Ekeby. It is what it is so that all
are happy together with you. Would you like to be an ordinary man, I would have given you much
power. My hope was always directed to the fact that you have a find a good woman would. At first
I thought it would be Marianne Sinclaire, because I saw that she loved you even while you were
living as woodcutters in the forest. Then believed I do that it would be Ebba Dohna, and I drove
one day to Borg over and told her if she wanted to marry you, I would use up to inherit Ekeby.
Have I did it wrong, you have to forgive me. "

Gösta lay beside the bed on her knees, pressed his forehead against
the edge of the bed, he moaned difficult.

"Tell me, Gosta, how do you intend to live. How will you provide for your wife? Sage I! You know,
I've always wanted your best. "

And Gösta replied with a smile, though he would burst his heart almost in pain: "In the old
days, when I tried to be here working on credit, gave me the woman Majorin a house in which
I could live, and I still have. This fall, I there all repaired, Lowenberg has helped me, we have
painted the ceiling and the Walls papered.

The rear small room called mountain lions, the boudoir of the countess,
and he has around the farmers searched for furniture they bought at
auction on manors have.

Which he has treated them, and now that high-backed chairs and chests are bare Fitting. In the large
front rooms but the loom is the young woman and my Lathe. There we have our home appliance
and other things, and there are mountain lions and I have sat many an evening and talked about
how the young countess and me in the house day laborer will live. My wife experiences this,
but everything until now, Mrs Baroness! We wanted it to her To tell when we left Ekeby. "

"Go on, Gosta,"

"Mountain lions always spoke of how necessary it would be for us to have a girl. 'In Summer is
lovely here, 'he said, "but in winter it is too lonely for the young woman. You have to keep a
girl, Gosta. " And I was aware that he was right, but I did not know How should I take the
means. Then he came one day dragged to his table, painted on the keys. 'It will probably come so
mountain lions that you our girl will, 'I said.

He said we would need his already if I would, perhaps, that The young
countess was to cook food and carry water and wood?

No, I had thought they should not do the very least, as long as I had a pair of hands with
which I work could. But he said it, it would probably be best if we had our two BWA, then they
could sit all day in the furnace area and embroider. I had no idea how much use such a small female
being required, he said. "

"Go on," said the major's wife. "It eases my pain. Did you think that your young Countess would
live in a laborer at home? "

He was surprised at her mocking tone, but he added: "Oh, Madam Baroness, I dared not to believe,
but it would have been so nice if they'd wanted to.

There are indeed of Here are five miles down to the nearest doctor. She, who so easy and such
a loving hand Has heart would find enough work by joining wounds
and nursing the fever.

And I thought all afflicted would find the way to the fine woman in the house day laborer. There is
so much misery among the poor, the good words and a friendly attitude to help able. "

"But you yourself, Gosta Berling?"

"I mean work on the planer and lathe, Mrs. Major's wife was. I have now my own Live life. Will
not my wife go with me, I must make it happen. If you I now would offer all the riches of the
world, I would not be tempted, and I want my own life.

I will proceed to be a poor man among the farmers and help them as far as I can. You need one
of their weddings and the Christmas feast airs, someone who can write letters to their sons
in a foreign land - and that I can do everything. But I must be poor, Mrs. Major's wife. "

"This is a sad life for you, Gosta is!"

"Oh no, Mrs. Major's wife, would it not, if we were only two that
stick together. The Rich and merry would come to us as well as the
poor. We would be glad enough sense have in our house. The guests
would have no consideration that the food in front of their Eyes might
be prepared, it would not offend, that they should feed two to a plate
of would have. "

"And what use you do with all that donate, Gosta?
What honor would you win? "

"I would be honor enough, Mrs. Major's
wife, if the poor a few years after my Still reminded of my death.
I would have donated to benefit enough, when I'm at every home a couple
of apple trees planted when I play the man a few of the tunes of the
old masters had taught, when the shepherd boy could sing on the forest
paths some beautiful songs. - The major's wife believe me, I'm still
the same great Gosta Berling as in the old Times. A farmer, musician,
that's all that I can be, but that is enough. I much irreparable,
but the weeping and contrition are not for me. I want the poor Enjoyment,
this is my penance! "

Gosta, "said the Baroness," a kind of life
is too small for a man with your gifts. I will give you Ekeby. "

"Ah,
Mrs. Major's wife," he exclaimed in horror, "Do not make me rich!
Load me not with such duties! If you get me from the poor! "

will
give "I'll Ekeby and the knights," repeated the major's wife. "You're
an excellent Man and blessed by the people. I say as my mother can
take you now on this work. "

"No, Mrs. Major's wife, we can not assume
we we misjudged you so and you have caused so much grief! "

"I will
give you Ekeby! Do you hear it not? "She said hard and sharp without
any experience.

A terrible fear came over him.

"Do not the elderly
in such a trial, Mrs. Major's wife, she'd again make careless revelers.
Rich gentlemen! God in heaven! What was probably from us? "

"I'll
give Ekeby, Gosta, for which you must promise me, however, your wife
the freedom to pay. Thus, a fine, little lady does not fit for you.
She has suffered too much in here Bear country, she longs to return
to their home possible. You shall leave them to travel. Therefore,
I give you Ekeby. "

But now Countess Elizabeth knelt down on the
bearing of the major's wife. "I no longer yearn gone, Mrs. Ebba. He,
who is my husband has solved the riddle and found the life that I
can live. The story of the first times seemed to confirm my hopes. The gods had the
people now in dreams, soon discovered phenomena, different were so even been fortunate enough to be
a favorite of the gods. Here I was Ganymede, Endymion and so many others to pay, which had been
loved by gods. I gave that which the poets tell it, an interpretation that the lofty ideas According
to was that I had amassed from the higher beings, the beauty and purity of Soul, the remote
and manners of the objects of the senses, the love of the immortal and eternal things seemed
to me the one to be what this pleasant person the gods, and had been sent to their relations.
I finally discovered the Theogiton (that was the Priest) my long-held secret thoughts. He
explained about it in a way that which my curiosity was brisk, without satisfying it, so he
let me note that this Secrets are, which he wore concerns to trust my youth: but he told me,
the possibility that the matter no doubt been subjected, and charmed me completely with the painting,
so he gave me the bliss of those who from the gods worthy to be taken would be admitted to their
secret dealing. The mysterious Face, which he accepted, as soon as I get asked to this purpose
of the means, led me to the take intent to wait until he himself would find for good, to see
clearly. He did not, but he made so many opportunities to inflame my curiosity aroused, I mentioned
that I could not take long to do new questions. Finally he led me one time deep in the sacred
grove of Apollo in a cave, an ancient belief that the residents believed the country inhabited by
nymphs, whose images of cypress wood, carved in Blind from the innermost shell work adorned the cave.

Here
he had to sit down on a mossy bank, and began after a promising Preface to me, as he said, the secret
sanctuary of divine philosophy of Hermes and catch up with Orpheus. Innumerable religious
ablutions, and a lot of prayers, Smoking and other secret establishments had to be preceded
by an underground or in terms prepare shackled spirit to watch the
celestial natures.

And E'en then would our mortal part of the splendor of divine perfection not stand, but (as to
recognize the poet in the history of Semele given) are completely eaten away and be destroyed
if they are not wrapped in a kind of body veil, by this condescension, and would make us able
by and by, herself at last, disembodied and to look in their essential form. I was foolish enough
all this given Keep secrets for real, I heard the serious Theogiton with a heavenly ecstasies ,
and made me his teachings so well for our profit, that I at day and night, nothing thought otherwise
than on the extraordinary things of which I have recently experienced in would.

You can you imagine, Danae, if my imagination idle in that time. I would not be ready when I wanted to
describe everything that happened at that time in her, and with what a magic to me in my dreams
sometimes in the happy islands, which Pindar so beautifully described, now to the banquet of
the gods, now in the Elysian valleys, the flat blessed shade replied.

Strange as it sounds, as surely as it is, however, that the powers
of the imagination that of far increase over what constitutes the
nature of our senses: it has a bit brighter than sunshine, slightly
sweeter than the sweetest scents of spring inward to their services,
our Senses to bring into rapture, and has new characters, improved
color, more perfect beauties, faster events, a new link between the
causes and effects, another Time - in short, it creates a new nature,
and enables us, in fact, in other worlds, which are governed by entirely
different laws than our own.

In our early youth we are yet unknown to our own being with the drivers to clearly see how
much this apparent magic of the imagination, in fact, of course. At least I was then gullible
enough to dream of this kind, attributed the supernatural influences, and to keep them for heralds
of the wonderful things which I hoped soon to know even awake.

One time when I under the provisions of Theogitons eight days of secret ceremonies and dedications,
and in a ceaseless effort of my mind all the external objects to withdraw, had passed, and I now
berechtiget stopped expecting anything more than what was I ever came across, I went late
at night because everyone was asleep in the cave the nymphs, and after I recited a lot of pompous songs
and invocation formulas had, I lay down, turned with his face against the full moon, which
then just in the cave appeared, back on the bench, and gave me the idea to me would be if Luna
descend from their Silbersphaere, and make me their Endymion would. In the midst of this extravagant
ideas in which I gradually came to be asleep started, I was awakened suddenly a lovely darkened,
about which some distance me seemed to float, and as I soon realized, was heard from that
kind of strings, which one cares to appropriate to the Apollo. A naturally minded members of society
would gedeucht have, he heard quite a bit of a skillful hand executed,
and he had hoped can not cheat.

But in the Constitution, which I was then, I might have the Gequaeke a choir of frogs kept
for the singing of the Muses. The music, the I heard, touched, fascinated, charmed me, they surpassed my
imaginary sensation after (because the imagination has its sensations,) all I had ever heard,
and only Apollo, the father of harmony, the sounds of the spheres their gods pleasure harmonies
taught, could produce was so earthly tones. My soul seemed like it from be pulled up her body, and,
all ear, to hover over the clouds, as these Music stops abruptly and left me in a mess of thoughts
and Gemuetsregungen, who told me to close that no eye all night, allowed.

The next day I told the Theogiton that had happened to me. He did not seem very particularly to do with
it, but he gave after he had questioned me all circumstances, to it Apollo, or may have been
from the Muses. You'll smile, Danae, when I confess that I, young as I was, and without being
aware of my own right, why? but would have preferred it if it would have been a muse. I now had
no night, me in the grotto einzufinden to listen to the supposed muse again: But my expectation
deceived me, it was Apollo himself After several nights where I am with the silent presence the
nymphs of cypress wood had to be content, I announced a brighter note, the suddenly fell into
the cave, and by the general darkness and my madness a supernatural light was collected, any extraordinary
event on. Judgments consternation as I was when I was in the middle of the night, the god of
day, on a hellglaenzenden Cloud sitting in front of me saw, who I care for the poor had been
torn from the beautiful Thetis. Golden yellow curls flowed around his white shoulders, a crown
of beams adorned his Vertex, the silver robe flowing around him, sparkled a thousand jewels,
and a lay golden lyre in his left arm. My imagination did add the rest, leading to completion an idealistic
beauty was needed.

Solo dismay and awe I did not allow the God seen more precisely in the face, and I believed that
he was blinded, and the luster of the eyes, which illuminated the whole world, not to be able
to endure. He spake unto me, and he testified me to be well pleased with my service, and the
fiery desire, which I, with contempt of earthly things devoted myself to the heavenly. He encouraged
me to go away in this way, and me by you for the influences of the immortals suffering, with
the assurance that I was determined to increase the number of lucky ones who he his special
favor gewuerdiget have. He disappeared when he said these words, so suddenly that I have nothing was
watching, and so biased as my mind was, this would have its Apollo Role many awkward play,
without a doubt to me that has gone against his divinity would be. Theogiton, which I gave to this
appearance message wished me luck to and told me of the old heroes of our nation, which have
been favorites of the gods once and now as Halbgoetter even altars and priests were planning so much
wonderful things as he might deem necessary to make my infatuation perfect. In the end, he forgot
not to give me instructions on how I conduct myself in a second appearance against the God would
have. Particular, he urged me to withhold my opinion about everything by myself nothing to
be strange, and the provision of our philosophy to always be mindful which enjoins us to an entirely
inaction when the gods are Würker on us. You had to be so inexperienced as I was to remember
not a snake in these flowers. Nothing but the development of this holy masquerade I could open
my eyes. I could impossible for me to even get the suspicion that the affection of a deity selfish
can be. I had rather hoped that the improved benefits for my knowledge-craving to draw from her,
and with more than human merits are gifted. For the explanation I was surprised at last of the Apollo,
and his actions even more, but last I discovered what you have to have seen long before, that
the supposed God no other than Theogiton himself was, who, as soon as he saw his game discovered
at once changed the language, and persuaded me that he would have made this comedy only to the
end to me from the Vanity of Theosophy, in which he would have seen me so in love, the better
to convince to be able to. He pulled the episode from it: That everything that was said of the gods,
inventions would be wiser heads, which they sought to attract gullible women and boys in their
network; In short, he turned everything on, what an immoral passion of a shameless Vera Real
Gods can enter to the trouble of so well devised, and with so many machines propped temptation
not to have been in vain. I drew him with his evil an anger that made me strong enough to pull
away from him. The following day had he impertinence, the priestly tasks with just the hypocritical
worship continue what he had betrayed me and every other so far. He did not let the slightest
alteration in his conduct pinned against me, and seemed of the past to remember as little as
if he would have drunk all the Lethe. This performance increased my anxiety much, I could not
grasp that there could be people who, in the middle of the excesses of vice, peace and serenity,
the natural Fellowship of innocence, maintaining know. Alone in less time delivered me the imprudence
these scammers of the concerns which I geschwebet since the story in the grotto had. Theogiton disappeared
from Delphi, without having the actual cause of it learned. From what we murmured into the ears,
I guessed that Apollo finally tired become his would like to flex his person by another. One of
our boys of a relative of the upper-priest had had (as you said) gave the occasion to do so.

These
events led me naturally to many new observations, but my Tendency for the marvelous and my favorite
ideas lost nothing and gained rather by now I locked myself in, and the only witnesses of that
immortal did what was going on in my soul. I continued to improve it according to the principles
let be the Orphic philosophy my first deals. I now began to believe that no other than an idealistic
community between the higher beings and the People was possible, that nothing but the purity
and beauty of our mental faculties is, to us an object of pleasure that unnameable, generally, the
Supreme Spirit to make, from which all the rest, like the planets from the sun, its light and
the whole Their natural beauty and immutable order received, and that finally in agreement
all our forces, thoughts and secret passions with the great intentions and the general Laws
that control the visible and invisible world, the real secret lies, to get to that association
with it, which I for the determination of natural and the final goal of all desires of an immortal
being looked at. Both those mental Beauty of the soul and the supreme direction of their Wuerksamkeit
for the intentions of the Legislature of the essence, I felt the safest by looking at the nature
preserve; which I presented myself as a mirror from which the essential, immortal, Divine in
our mind back shine, and it gradually just as penetrate and satisfy, as the sun illuminated a water
drop. I am persuaded that the unverrueckte Contemplation of the wisdom and goodness, which
so well from the particular nature of each part of Creation, to shine forth as the plan and the general
economy of the whole, the infallible means, be yourself to be wise and good. I brought all these
principles in practice. Any new idea that developed in me, became a sensation in my Heart, and
I lived in a quiet and luminous state of mind, which I remind me never anything other than
going with a melancholy pleasure, many happy years out, ignorant (and happy by this ignorance) that
take this state can not; because the passions of the maturing age,
and (if this would not be) the inevitable Involvement in the change
of human affairs that continuation of inner serenity and rest not
permit that can only be a fraction disembodied beings.

"

CHAPTER THREE

Love in different forms

"By now I had reached his eighteenth year, and now began, in the midst of the pleasant Sensations
of which my nature and my intellectual development-employments inexhaustible sources appeared to
be to feel a void in me which can fill with any ideas wanted. I looked at the manifold variety
of nature scenes, such as with new eyes, and their beauties had for me a little heart-touching, which
I had otherwise never felt this way. The singing of the birds in the trees which seemed to say that he
had never told me, without I knew what it was, and the new leafy woods seemed to invite me in
their shadow a voluptuous melancholy, indulge, of which I am in the middle of the most sublime
reflections was overpowered against my will. Gradually, I fell into an effeminate idleness:
Seemed to me that I had previously been happy only in the imagination, and my heart yearns
After a subject in which I enjoy those idealistic perfections actuality would like, where I had
been grazed only dreamed of as a feast.
 

Yes, you women of vanished times! Ekeby halls swarm with the best of your beautiful Crowd. There
is the young countess Dohna in their exuberant cheerfulness, always ready to have Game and dance,
as was fitting for her twenty years, there are the three beautiful daughters Judge of the
District of Munkerud and the lively young lady from Berga, as is Anna Stjarnhok, a thousand times better
than previously, in the gentle melancholy that since that night when they the wolves was pursued,
had come over them, there are still many more that do not yet seem to forget are that it will
also be soon, and there is also the beautiful Marianne Sinclaire.

You, the far-famed for being conspicuous at the court of the king, who blasted in Graf locks,
the queen of beauty, which is drawn through the country and everywhere in receiving homage
taken, has it that ignited the spark of love, where she was, she
had condescended to appear at the feast of the Cavaliers.

Wermland honor shone brightly in those times, be maintained by many
a proud name.

The happy children of this beautiful country had much in what they could be proud when they
but called their treasures, they were never to call Marianne Sinclair's name.

The reputation of their victories filled the whole country. They spoke of the coronet, which
her head had hovered in the millions, of which it was laid at the feet of the warrior swords
wreaths and poet, whose luster had beckoned her.

And it was not only beautiful, she was also witty and well read. The best men of the Time talking
like her. A writer, she herself was not, but many their thoughts that they had put into the
souls of their friends were sealed up in songs.

In Wermland, in bear country, they stayed only rarely. She took her life on the road to. Her
father, the rich Melchior Sinclaire, sat with his wife at home and
had to Björne Mariana to her make friends in the big cities or to
the magnificent castles .

Travel He had pleasure to talk about all the money they spent, and the old couple lived happily in
the glow of Marianne's glorious existence.

Her life was a life full of pleasures and homage. The air around her was love, Love was her light,
her light, love their daily bread.

Often, very often she herself had loved, but never had such a flame lasted long enough that
in its might to forge the chains that bind for life.

"I'm waiting for the love that comes as a conqueror," she would say.

"So far climbing wall and they do not have swum any digging. I'm waiting for the huge Love
that lifts me about myself, so strong I want to feel the love in me that I must tremble before
her, and now I only know the love, the laughs my mind.

"

Their closeness gave the word fire and the wine life.

Her glowing soul accelerated the Bow, the dance was hovering easier, intoxicating on the ground
then, as soon as she touched her narrow foot. She beamed into the living pictures, they inspired
the comedies A spirit, her beautiful lips - -

Oh, hush, it was not their fault, it was never their intention was!

The balcony, Moonlight, the lace veil, the knight clothes, the singing
were to blame.

     The poor young people were completely
     innocent.
     
     All this, which should incite so much
     harm was, but planned with the best
     intentions. Patron Julius, who knew about
     everything, had arranged a living picture, just to Marianne could
shine in their full glory.

     
     
     Before the stage, which
     was built in the great hall to
     Ekeby, sat over a hundred guests
     and saw Spain Adda, winding yellow moon
     on the dark night sky.

A Don Juan crept over the streets of Seville and halted under a efeuumkränzten balcony. He was a Monk
dressed, but saw a peep from the patched-cuff sleeves and a tip naked
sword under his habit to come to light.

     
     
     The masked men broke into a song:

     "I do not drink a cup of wine, In no red
     girls mouth Did my lip rested. A
     face even the most delicate and fine,
     Sparked by my face to glow, A look that pleads: "Oh, be good to me!"

Does not penetrate to my heart's ground.

If not in your beauty shine Lady at the gate. I am afraid your glance! I wear Kutt and Rosenkranz,
Madonna is it, that I chose, The wine I prefer the spring draft,
He is my comfort, my happiness!

"

When the last note died away, Marianne came in black Sammetgewande into a lace veil wrapped
on the balcony. She leaned over the fence and sang slowly and ironic:

"For why do you linger, pious man, At midnight before the balcony, Supplication for my soul you bang?
"

But suddenly she went faster and with heat:

"Flee Oh, oh fly, it will not do! Your sword looks out at all long, We hear through your pious
Sang The silver spurs bright sound!

"

At these words the monk threw off his disguise, and Gosta Berling was standing in a knight costume
of gold and silk under the balcony. He paid no attention to the warning of the beautiful, but
climbed to one of the columns that supported the balcony up, jumped over the fence and fell -
as Patron Julius had arranged - the beautiful Marianne feet.

She smiled sweetly, her hand reaching for a kiss, and while the two young People together,
fascinated by love, regarded, the curtain fell.

And before it was Gosta Berling with a face as soft as that of a poet
and bold as that of a commander, with deep eyes shone with mischief
and spirit, pleading and threatened.

Supple and strong, he was fiery, captivating.

While the curtain was raised and lowered again, the young couple remained
motionless in the same position.

Göstas eyes looked intently at the beautiful Marianne, she begged
and threatened.

Then stopped the applause. The curtain was not raised again, no one saw them.

As the beautiful Marianne leaned down and kissed Gosta Berling. She did not know why they did,
they had to do it.

He put his arm around her neck and pressed her to him. You kissed him again and again.

But the balcony, the moon, the lace veil, the knight costumes, the singing, the applause were to
blame, the poor young children were entirely innocent.

They did not wanted.

She had not met the coronet on his own, which hovered over her head, was not over walked at the
millions that lay at her feet, since, under Gosta Berling longed,
and he had Anna Stjarnhok not yet forgotten.

No, they had no Fault, none of them had wanted it.

The gentle mountain lions, which floated the tear in the eye and the smile on his lips moved
in, That day the curtain.

Oppressed by the memories of the sorrowful events that gave the things of this world, he attracted
little attention, he had never learned it properly be observed.

When he saw that Marianne and Gösta had taken a new position, He
said that it belonged to them in the performance, and pulled the curtain
once again.

The young couple on the balcony was none before the applause they umbrauste again.

Marianne was startled, she wanted to escape, but Gösta held them back and whispered in her to:
"Stand still, you believe that this is one of the living pictures."

He felt her body tremble with fear, and the blaze went out of kisses
on her lips.

"Fear not," he whispered, "have beautiful lips to kiss a right."

They had to stand still as the curtain fell and rose again, and hundreds
of eyes They stared at each time, hundreds of hands them zuklatschten
stormy applause.

For there is uplifting, two beautiful young people a view of the happiness of love to see. No one
came to the idea that kissing might be something other than theater
illusion, No one suspected that the Señora blushed with shame, that
the knight was shaking with anxiety.

All believed that the hearing with the performance.

Marianne finally stood behind the stage and Gösta She pushed the hair out by hand the forehead.
"I do not understand myself," she said.

"Ugh cuckoo, Miss Marianne," he said, made a face and a gesture with his hands to kiss Gosta
Berling! Pooh cuckoo! "

Marianne laughed.

"Everyone knows that Gosta Berling is irresistible. My offense is not greater than the other.
"

And they agreed that they would make a good face to ensure that no suspicion of should draw the true
facts.

"Can I rely on that truth will never come to light, Mr. Gösta asked?" them before they went among
the spectators.

"Then Miss Marianne can rely on. Not to mention the pensioners know, stand for the I have a.
"

She cast down her eyes, and a peculiar smile curled her lips.

"Now, if the truth should still come to light that people will then only once think of me, Mr. Gösta?
"

"They will think nothing and they will know that the thing has to
mean anything.

They are think that we have been in the role, and have continued
to play.

"

One more question slipped out from under the lowered gaze, the forced
smile: "But what Mr. Gösta think of it yourself?"

"I think that Miss Marianne is in love with me," he laughed.

"Such things should not believe Mr. Gosta," she replied, smiling,
"because I would have Mr. Gösta with the Spanish dagger pierce in
order to prove to him that he is wrong.

"

"Expensive, women's kisses," said Gosta.

"Is the cost of living, kissed by Miss Marianne be? "

Since it hit a view from Marianne's eyes, was so sharp that he stabbed him like a felt.

"I would like to see him dead before me, Gosta Berling, dead, dead!"

These words awakened anew an old chord in the breast of the poet.

"Oh," he said, "but when these words were more words. If they had arrows from the dark Herausflögen
thicket, they were a dagger or poison - they would also have the power to this miserable Body
to put an end to give my soul for freedom!

"

She had regained her calm and smiled. "Follies," she said, touching his arm, in order to go to
the guests.

They kept their costumes, and her triumph was repeated when it is in the public showed. All
were full of praise, no one entertained the slightest suspicion.

The ball took its course, Gosta but fled from the ballroom. His heart writhed under Marianne's
view, as it had taken a sharp beam.

He understood very well the meaning their words. be a shame it was to love him, a shame, loved
by him, a Shame worse than death. He never wanted to dance again, did not see her again, the
beautiful women.

He knew only too well: those beautiful eyes, those red cheeks radiated not for him. For him
not floated these light feet, not for him it sounded subdued Laugh. Yes, dance with him, swarming
with him that they could not wanted by them but are seriously the Seine.

The poet went to the old gentleman's smoking room and sat down at
the play tables.

Coincidentally, he came to the same table at which sat the mighty
Lord of Bjorne, soon played he, he soon gave Bank and accumulated
a large amount from six-and twelve-shilling pieces on.

They played already high, but still Gösta brought into more speed. The green certificates were
to light, and the pile of money before the mighty Melchior Sinclaire grew from minute to minute.

But
even before Gösta is piled to the copper and paper money, and soon he was the only one of the
fight with the owner of Björne endured.

It lasted not long until the big pile of money to Melchior Sinclaire Gosta Berling wandered over.

"Well,
Gosta," cried the squire, laughing, as he had lost everything in
his purse and was in his pocket, "what shall we do now?

I am completely plundered, with borrowed money and I never play that I have promised my mother.
"

But he found a way out. He lost his clock and his beaver fur and was just about to his horse and his
sleigh to risk, as Sintram him from holding back.

"Set but rather just a little one," is worth while, "cried the angry owner of Fors. "Take something
that can break the evil spell! "

"The devil only knows what I will suspend!"

»Game rotestes your heart and soul, Melchior, play to your daughter!"

"That the Lord can Sinclaire" dare confidently, laughing Gosta. "The
price I never get to my roof!

"

The mighty Melchior was also not help but laugh. He brooked not like that Marianne's name was mentioned
at the table, but this idea was too great to be angry about it be.
to gamble on Marianne Gosta - yes, he could safely venture.

"I mean, Gosta," he said, "under the condition that, if you can gain her consent, I put my father's
blessing on this. "

Gösta put his entire profit on the other hand, and started the game. He won, and the landlord Melchior
Sinclaire stopped playing. Fight against the evil he could not he saw. - -

Well, Gosta Berling insists, not your heart with all this!

You do not understand what your destiny want? What Marianne kisses meant what it meant Marianne's
wrath? Do you get for not more women on your mind? And now this game
won!

Do not you see that the fate want, what will the love? On, Gosta Berling!

No, this evening is Gosta Berling not conquerors mood. He grumbles about the inflexibility of
fate. Why love is satisfied only by love? He knows how all these beautiful songs . End Love it
can get, but no wife. It may not help at all to try. -

The night passed, it was already past midnight. The cheeks of the lovely ladies began to turn
pale, the hair fell out, the top sets were crushed. The old ladies rose up from their sofa
areas and said the party had now lasted a full twelve hours, because it was time to leave.

And the nice hard really should have an end, but as Liliencrona took
himself to fiddle and played the last polka.

The carriage stopped in front of the doors, the old ladies wrapped in their furs and hoods, the
old men knotted the scarf around his neck and buttoned the fur boots on.

But the boys could not tear himself away from the dance.

They danced in their warm covers, It was a wild, insane dancing. Once a gentleman brought a
lady to court, was another, and pulled her away.

Even the melancholy Gosta Berling was drawn into this vortex.

He wanted the Grief and humiliation continued dancing, he wanted
to dance roaring lust for life into the blood, He wanted to be cheerful
as the others.

And he danced, so that the walls in the hall turned and cheated his thoughts.

But what a lady, it was because he had torn away from the crowd with it? She was easy and smooth,
and it seemed as if streams of fire between him and her back and forth twitching. Oh, Marianne!

While
Gösta danced with Marianne, Sintram was already sitting down in the
yard in his sleigh, and beside him stood Melchior Sinclaire. The mighty
lord of the manor was impatient because he Marianne had to wait. He
stamped his big fur boots in the snow and made movement with the poor,
for it was bitterly cold.

"You should not at the end of Marianne
playful Gösta have Sinclaire?" Said Sintram.

"How popular?"

Sintram
arranged the reins, raising his whip in the air, he said, "This kissing
previously did not belong with the living pictures. "

The mighty
lord raised his arm in a devastating blow, but was already Sintram
continued. He went then cut, to a horse, so that they hunted in wild
flight from there, and did not dare look around, for Melchior Sinclaire
had a heavy hand and a short patience.

The owner of Björne now went
into the dance hall to fetch his daughter, and there saw because he,
like Gösta and Marianne dancing.

Wild and stormy was the last polka.
Some couples were pale, others glühendrot; the Dust was like a cloud
of smoke above the room, the candles flickered burned down deep in
the candlesticks, and amidst all this destruction, they flew uncomfortable
- Gösta and Marianne, Royal inexhaustible in their power, without
blemish in its beauty, happy in the sense of being able to indulge
in this very beautiful movement.

When Marianne stopped dancing and
asked her parents, they had gone home. She did not, however, noted
their surprise, but quietly dressed and went out. The ladies toilet
in the room believed that she was traveling in his own carriage.

But
she ran into her thin, silk shoes along the way without anyone complain
their plight. In the darkness, none of the guests she recognized how
she went there on the edge of the road, no one would have thought
that this nocturnal wanderer, the hurrying of the slide forced into
the hills of snow, was the beautiful Marianne was. Once it undisturbed
in could walk the middle of the road, they began to run. She ran as
long as she could, went then a distance and ran it again. An eerie
anguish drove them forward.

From Ekeby to Björne is only a quarter
of a mile. Marianne was soon at home, but she believed almost, that
she had lost. When she came into the yard, all the doors were locked,
all the lights extinguished, they initially believed that her parents
have not come home be.

She went to the front door and knocked on
with some heavy blows. She took on the lock and shook it that rang
throughout the house. No one came and opened, but when they wanted
to release the iron door handle, which she had recorded with his bare
hands, she tore they are frozen to the metal skin of the hands.

The
mighty lord Melchior Sinclaire was driven home to his only child the
door locked. He was intoxicated by drink, wild with anger. He hated
his daughter; because she loved Gosta Berling. Now he locked the servants
in the kitchen and his wife in the bedroom. With a loud oath he vowed
to kill those who dare would engage Marianne. And it was known that
he would keep his word.

So angered him no one had seen. A greater
sorrow was it never even happened. Would not it his daughter came
to her eyes, he would have perhaps killed.

He had given her gold,
and silk garments, he had given her a fine education and can be given
a scientific education. She had been his pride, his Honor. He had
seen her when she wore a crown. Oh! his queen, his goddess, his beloved,
beautiful, proud, Marianne! Had he ever saved, where it traded for
them had? Had he not felt too low to be her father do? Oh, Marianne,
Marianne!

Had he not hate them when they fell in Gosta Berling was
and kissed him! Did he not failed, it shut its doors if it offended
his Highness, by providing a such a man loved it! Let them stay on
Ekeby, let them run to the neighbors to lodging to desire, let them
sleep in the snow, it does not matter, it's already in the mud , Razed
the beautiful Marianne. The shine of it has gone. The splendor of
his life is gone!

He lies in bed and hear them knocking on the door.
What is that to him! He sleeps! Out there is the girl who wants to
marry her to a remote parish priest - for he has no home. If he had
loved them less, he would have been proud of it less, he could have
let them in.

Yes, his blessing, he can not deny them. He had lost.
You, however, his door Open that he would not. Oh, Marianne!

The
beautiful young girl was still standing at the door of the house.
Soon she shook in impotent Anger at the castle, they soon fell to
his knees, folded her hands and prayed mangled forgiveness.

But no
one heard it, no one answered, no one opened it.

Oh, this was not
terrible! Horror seized me while I tell you this. It came from a ball,
the Queen had been. She was proud, wealthy, have been happy, and a
Moment later she fell into such a bottomless misery. Excluded from
their home, the cold exposed, not ridiculed, not beaten, not cursed,
just with cold, merciless hardness excluded. If
a difference between Agathon and the best is, for which I Formerly from gratitude, Taste or mood, favors
have been, it is entirely to his advantage; so it is that he is noble, sincere, affectionate,
that he loves me, since that is only even loved me, that my pleasure him happier than his own,
that he the generous and grateful heart with the shining merits of the Spirit, with everything
that makes the handling irritant, has united. "-" What a stream of eloquence, " cried Hippias
with the smile of a Faun, "you talk as if you otherwise his apology would have to make against
me, and if I have other words for what? I described him as lovable? I Do not say you he you the hyacinth,
and all these like fluttering Sommervoegel would make intolerable? But we do not quarrel, beautiful
Danae. I see that Cupid made here more work than it was applied and it should you only help
to submit to the Agathon, but the spirited little boy has for a bigger honor held up defeating
itself, which Danae, who up to now with his arrows had only been joking. Confess Danae - "Yes,
(they occurred to him eagerly)" I confess that I love the way I have never loved, that everything
else I called bliss, hardly deserves the name of life has, I confess, Hippias, and I am proud that
I am capable would be, everything I own, all the delights of Smirna, all requirements for approval,
all the satisfactions of vanity, and a whole world full of lovers like to throw a nutshell, to
live with Callias in a straw-covered hut, and with these hands, which not to be white and tender,
should prepare the milk to him, from the field Coming back, because I gave him, would taste
sweeter than nectar from the hands the Liebesgoettin. "

"Oh, that's something different," said Hippias, who now could not hold any longer in a loud
Laughter breaking out, "if Danae expresses this tone, it has nothing to Hippias . Say But, "he continued,
after he wiped his eyes and placed in the mouth wrinkles had, in
fact, beautiful girlfriend, I laugh at the wrong time, and the matter
is more serious than I at first sight, thought, and I fear now in
all seriousness that Callias, much as he up to worship, does not seem
to have enough love would like to respond to yours.

"" I adopts Hippias to this concern, "said Danae with a sarcastic smile, which she very cute left,
"this is my concern, and it seems to me, Hippias, which so great a master is to close by the
Wuerkungen on the causes, should all be able to be quiet about it, that Danae is not like a girl
vierzehnjaehriges catch can. "" The gods of the Love and joy forbid that sum up my words a foul
prophetic meaning in itself, " Hippias replied! "You love, beautiful Danae, you are loved,
not a worthy pair happy to be, not a smart make himself happy, Love has never been united. Erschoepfet
all that love has lovely! Trinket always new delights from their nectar's Cup, and may take as
long as the enchantment neidenswerte your life!

CHAPTER TWO

A sample of the talents of a lover

In such a friendly tone and schwaermerischen voted the pleasing his Sophist Language to, as Agathon
walked in, and they suggested a walk in the gardens, which He wanted
to make the pleasure in it with a secret held revel surprise.

It was allowed in the proposal fell, and after a series of new Hippias
Paintings, which the gallery had been increased, had seen, we went
into the garden, in which, after the Persian taste, big Blumenstuecke,
walks by tall trees, small ponds, artificial wildernesses, gazebos
and grottos in graceful disorder among seemed thrown.

The conversation was now "again indifferent, and it knew so Hippias
to direct that Agathon was led insensibly, the new turn which his
imagination have had to betray a hundredfold to sort.

Meanwhile, the sun was coming when them on entry into a small forest of myrtle - and lemon trees,
on which the art no hand seemed to have created, hidden by a concert that all types of Songbirds
imitate, were received. From each branch, from every leaf seemed to be a special Voice to
emerge, so sonorous was the music, in which the imitation of the rude Nature of the apparent irregularity
imagining sounds, the sweetest harmony brought forth that had ever heard of. The dawn of the most
cheerful evening, and the peculiar charm of the place so united to this grove like the shape
of enchantment to give. Danae, who a few weeks ago a new sensitivity for the beautiful had been
given the nature and the pleasures of the imagination, saw its entirely ignorant Vice-border
favorite with eyes that told him that only the presence of Hippias they prevented, throw their arms
around his beautiful neck when suddenly a number of small Liebesgoettern and faunas of the
grove hervorhuepfte; those of fluttering Silberflor, the durchwuerkt with fake roses, was lightly
covered, this naked, except that an ivy wreath, interwoven with yellow roses, her milky white
hips, protects and gilt to the small Hoerner twined that stood out from her black hair kurzlockichten.
All Genii this small scattered from dainty Basket of silver wire, the most beautiful flowers
Danae before her, and led them dancing in the middle of the grove, where bushes of jasmine,
Acacia roses and a kind of amphitheater halbzirkelndem made under which a delicate Throne of
foliage and Blumenkraenzen prepares for the beautiful Danae stood. After she had been brought,
spread the Liebesgoetter a Persian rug in front of her by some of the little fauns were busy,
the floor with gold and crystal bowls to fill all sorts of cute shapes, others under the full load
hoses with droll Sign came up crept, and in passing the wise Hippias wanton through one hundred
Games teased. Suddenly the Graces slips out from behind a myrtle hedges, three young Sisters whose
beauty halbaufgebluehte a light cloud of gases to develop more veil themselves seemed jealous.
They surrounded her mistress, and by the first one fresh flower wreath around her beautiful face
wall, her knees in the other two ranged golden shells, the choicest fruits and refreshments are, however,
the faunas of the Hippias ivy crowns, and fragrant ointments over his bald head and his half-gray
beard poured down. Both testified their pleasure at this small theater, which is the paintings
of the world was laughing, and as a gentle symphony of flutes from the Air, it seemed, herabtoenend,
the eyes to a new phenomenon called attention. The Liebesgoetter, the faunas and the Graces, however,
were gone, and it will open Danae compared to the forest-eights scene to represent the love of
God, on a golden Clouds sitting, which was held up over the Rosenbueschen by Zephyr. A roguish
Smile, the umscherzte his lovely face, seemed to warn the heart, from the trifling innocence of this
beautiful Goetterknabens can not make careless. He sang in a sweet voice, and content of his song expressed
his joy that he finally have found a convenient opportunity to get revenge on the beautiful Danae.
"Like the Liebesgoettin, my mother "(he sang)" There is absolute about it, the heart, and breathed universal
love around: Inspired by her looks turned her nature as their goddess, to; embellishes when she
smiles, sad and withered, when she returns from her: Leave stand the altars of Paphos, the sighs
of the lovers wander only accept her, and by winning their eyes round about them hurting her
every heart and delight, she laughs, the pride of my arrows, and defies the chest with unbezwungner
power before which gods tremble: But they will not longer resist, here is the sharpest arrow,
sharp enough for a to split breasts of marble, and hinwegzuschmelzen the coldest soul in love
flames. Tremble true non same Beautiful! this moment is to take revenge Amorn and his mother!
Sighing you shall mount up, ascends as a young deer, the roses dormant under the winged Arrow
of Jaegers feels, painful and hopeless thou shalt wander in solitary trees, and Sitting on the
barren rock slow stream increase with your tears. "

So sang he stretched and mischievous smile, the bow, the arrow was already created, already
targeted He easily covered by her bosom: as he drove back suddenly with a loud cry, broke his
arrow, the bow threw away, and with tenderly timid gesture the beautiful Danae zuflatterte. "O
Goddess, forgive" (he sang, as he cupped her knees begging) "Forgive, forgive, beautiful mother,
the error of my eyes, how easy it was to be wrong? I saw up to Dana. "

In the same moment he had sung this, appeared the Graces, the Liebesgoetter and the little fawns
again, and ended this scene with songs and dances, for a price those who in such a flattering
way to the Goddess of beauty and love had been explained. This unexpected compliment, which
was still the charm of novelty had because it has not been wasted on the Daphne, and of so
many modern poets Chloen had seemed to her pleasure to make, and the doubly amused Hippias confessed
that his I learned to make young friend a very good use of his imagination. "I did not Callias,"
he said softly to him, as he clapped him on the shoulder, "That one month to heal the eyes
of the beautiful Danae up with prejudice would, which thou wast taken against principles which
you already learned so masterly exercise have. "

The rest of the evening was spent on an equally pleasant manner, until finally Hippias, who the
following morning in Smirna had to be in a state in which he more resembled the father Silenus
as a sage, was brought from the small faunas to bed.

Agathon now had nothing more pressing to know as of Danae, was the object of their individual
been meeting with the Hippias was.

You will be able to keep it that lady too well that They drove the sincerity of her report not ready
to admit him the plot, into which it differs from the sophist had initially can be drawn, and
its output so far from the System of the first plan had been removed. The most tender and intimate
love prevents not mean you should not be subject to little secrets, when they discovered the Self-love
would not see their bill. They therefore contented himself with saying to him that Hippias have
many good things from him said, and she assures him that much brighter and similar think as
he previously had not put them would have fancied that he wanted to say more so than his words
would have said to himself, but they would have just as little thought of him for confidante
to make their love than they would have reason to hide a respect which is the personal Merits
of Callias can not refuse, but otherwise they would have a liveliness to the accounts of the time,
which weakens the memory of his Ungluecksfaelle, and the more perfect
Freedom wrote that he would have in their home.

Agathon was abolished by this story not only calm, but as his imagination was used to lead
him further and further, as he intended to go, so he felt after a while of this matter had spoken
so boldly that he undertook the jokes of Hippias, unless it is the
same should ever come to joke about his friendship with Danae to reply
in the same tone; a resolution which (if he was not aware of same)
are indeed more impertinence presupposed as a matter of a slow progress
on the wanderings, of which he was lost, Agathon one could ever exist.

CHAPTER THREE

Convulsive movements of the resurgent virtue

A few days had elapsed since the visit of Hippias, as a party, which he all years to give his friends
used the opportunity, made the beautiful Danae and her friends send an invitation. Because they had
to be no good excuse for her failure to sorry, it appeared on the given day and brought a liveliness
Agathon with, which made him even hope that he would be as good as it is the seizures, which he expected
from the mischief of the Sophists, could only ever require. Hippias had not forgotten anything that could
increase the magnificence of his festival, and after the person what in the second book of
the principles of life and the riches of this man been reported, so our readers can imagine much
of it as they want to get without; that we carried in unnecessary descriptions of the more important
things we ahead of us staying, would.

Agathon had over the board played the role of a funny head as well, and had so fine and so lively
joking, and on occasions the ideas, which dominated his mind at that time was revealed so clearly,
that Hippias could not contain him at a moment where they were alone, expressing his joy about it
all. "I am pleased to Callias" (He said to him) "that you, as I see a wast of our people. You
justify the good opinion completely, which I took at the first sight
of you, I always said that such a fiery soul like yours, but lacked
real objects to without effort of the chimeras to come back, what
you seemed to hang a few weeks so strong.

" Fortunately for the good Agathon saved him the Darzwischenkunft
some subjects from the Society, in the middle of the answer which
he had begun to stutter, but the unrest, which these few words of
sophists had thrown in his mind could not save him.

All the effort he tried, all Zeitkuerzungen, of which he found himself surrounded, were too
weak pull him back from a confusion that even the sight of the beautiful Danae was increased.
He had an impulse of nausea plead for a long time wegzubegeben from society to indulge in a more
remote the Cabinet thought which at once set him daherstuermende behaved for a while all the property,
one of the to distinguish other. Finally he put his hand yet so far that he oppressed his heart
could make this often interrupted by air Selbstgespraech: "Like -" I am pleased that you become
one of our men '- possible ISTS? One of his family - The Hippias similar - to him, the principles,
his life, his supposed wisdom to me recently still inspires as much loathing - And the transformation
is so great that she no doubt leaves something? Merciful gods! Where is your Agathon - Oh!
It is more than certain that I no longer I myself am - What? are
not all my belongings in this House, of which Formerly my soul is
turned away with disgust and horror, were indifferent or pleasant
at all?

These lush paintings - those slippery nymphs - these talks, in which all the People should be
large and venerable, is placed in a strange light - this waste of the time - this painstakingly
sun and the demand-driven nature of the pleasures - heaven! Where am I? What sort of a precipitous
slope, I find myself - what a precipice under I - O Danae, Danae - "here he kept inn, to the
comforting influences to leave space, which the name and the magical images, he brought with him
about his self-tormenting Soul spread. With a speedy transition from melancholy to ecstasy, flew
through they now "all these scenes of love and bliss that her days letztverflossnen moments
were made to, and perfused by these memories with an intimate pleasure, they could not or would they
rather not bear the thought that in such a beneidenswuerdigen State by itself could be shut
down. "Divine Danae," cried the poor sick in a doubling of the kick returning from vertigo, "as
it can be a crime have to love the most perfect of all creatures?

Is it a crime happy to be "- This sound drove Amor (what Plato really the very greatest of all
Sophists calls it) the more unfettered persuade him away because he had the self-love to help,
and his Thing to theirs did. For what is unpleasant, than to accuse themselves at the same time
and must be ordered? And how much we hear the voice of the self-defending Passion? How thoroughly,
we find each illusion, which they judge the reason to entice a false statement studied? Agathon
heard this betriegliche Apologistin so much that she managed to calm his mind again. He flattered
himself that notwithstanding a change in his thinking, he himself for an improvement give
searched, and the difference between him and Hippias still so great, so much was than ever. He
hid his weak side behind the virtues of which he is aware of be believed, and finally calmed
down completely with an idealistic draft its are principles laid down life for what he is preparing
his beloved Danae enough believed to present their selfsame without long delay.
 High stone wall surrounds the sad and the poor Stain. Poor
and bleak is the cemetery. Ugly as the face of a miser, the devastated by the misery of those
calls, whose fortune he has stolen. Yet they are blessed the rest out here who lowered into consecrated
ground in spiritual songs and prayers are. Acquilon, the player him, who died last year at Ekeby,
they had outside the wall buried. This man, who was once so proud and so chivalrous, the brave
Krieger, the bold hunter, the player who caught holding the lucky, he ended by saying that
He brought through the inheritance of his children, as well as everything he bought it and what
its Woman had saved up. Wife and children he had left many years ago, the life to lead to a cavalier
Ekeby. One evening last summer, he had squandered the estate, which granted them their livelihood.
Then he shot himself - rather be dead than his debt . Pay But the corpse of the suicide was out of
the mossy walls of the poor Cemetery buried.

After his death there had been only twelve gentlemen, after his death,
none was re- added, to take the place of the Thirteenth, none other
than the black, the crawled out on Christmas Eve came out of the furnace.

The

Cavaliers had found his fate more bitter than that of his predecessor. They knew yes, that one
had to die from them each year. There was also no evil, Cavaliers Do not get old. When their
weary eyes to distinguish the cards can no longer when their trembling
hands lift the glass can not, what they are saying that the lives
and what are they for life?

But like a dog to lie on the churchyard wall, where the turf one can not cover alone, but depressed
by the grazing sheep, the Spade and plow be cut, where the hiker will pass quickly, without its deleterious
to inhibit transition, where children play, without lowering their laughter and their jokes
- there to rest, where hineinzudringen the stone wall prevents the sound, when the angel of
the Last Court with his trombone in there raised the dead - oh, to rest there!

Beer Creutz now rowing in his boat across the Löfsee. He pulls in the evening on the lake my dreams,
on whose banks I wander gods and, from the depth of my dream castle rises. He rowed over to
the lagoons of the lag island, where the fir trees of low, circular shoals rise straight out of the
water, and where the ruins of the destroyed castle pirates still
on the steep cliff of the island are, and he rowed in the pine forest
on the headland Borg out where the old fir tree is still hanging on
thick roots of the gorge, where a powerful bear was once caught and
where ancient cairns and burial mounds on the age evidence of the
place.

He rows round and round the headland, rising just before the cemetery from the boat and go then
mowed fields belonging to Count on credit, up to Acquilons grave.

As he bends down and caresses the turf, how softly stroking the floor, under of a sick friend
at rest. Then he takes out his Rabougekarten and sits next to the Grave down.

"He is so lonely here, Johan Frederick, he longs for a certain playing cards."

"A sin and a shame it is that such a man here to be out there," said the great Unlike fox and bear
hunter set down by him.

But the little Ruster, the flute player, thanks in an agitated voice,
while tears diligently drop from its little red eyes.

»Next to you, Colonel next, you, he was the best man I have ever known."

That was the little Ruster, the street boy from Karlstad, a great
loafer and bully had been, the civilized, but had a love for music
quite wonderful, so that he the peers of his master soared.

Two great exploits he had in his youth to report. One was that he and Acquilon had gone down to
Gothenburg and as great men lived, ate in the finest hotels, operates in the richest houses,
the most beautiful ladies dancing, and every night to thousands of crowns had played cards, and
all without owning a single Ore. And the other that he once described as a drummer for the love
of his regiment had been involved with Supreme to repel an enemy attack, down there in Germany.
Half the regiment was down already, but he and the Colonel did not stir from the spot. Then came
an aide from the Crown Prince. "Retreat," he called the Supreme to. »Salute Se. Royal Highness and
says that I am up to the last man to beat and then will compete with the rest of the retreat, "said
the colonel, and called the soldiers"! Hurrah " and the little Ruster proposed a jubilant drum
roll.

Since that day the colonel and Rust had always been friends, but the Crown Prince was Beer Creutz since
been a thorn in the eye, and he had resigned without mercy or pension
.

Get And now came that is because he was too brave, "said the little Ruster.

This honor three men are sitting in a circle around the grave and
give the cards, eager and serious.

I see beyond the world, I see many graves. There rests the Mighty, the marble stone complained.
The funeral march rush over him. Flags lower over the grave. I see the graves of those who
are much loved. Tränenbenetzte wreaths resting lightly on the lawn above them. I see forgotten
graves and tombs measured, resting places, the lie, and others, that say nothing. But never have
I seen Treffbube an inhabitant of the tomb to invite guest.

"Johan Frederick has won," said the colonel proudly. "I did it anyway.
I play it taught.

Yes, now we are dead, we all three, and he is the only one who survived. "

He gathers the cards, rises and turns, followed by the others, to Ekeby back. Now, the dead
must surely have felt that not all abandoned him and his grave have forgotten. It is a strange
homage, offer the confused heart to those who they love, but the
one that lies outside the wall, whose dead body is not in consecrated
Earth has been able to find peace, he must be pleased that that not
all reject him.

Friends, most children when I die, I will probably in the middle of the cemetery in the family vault
my ancestors rest. I have not stolen my loved ones make a living, have also Hand raised not
against my own life, but certainly I did not win such love, certainly no one will do as much
for me, as the Cavaliers did for these criminals.

There is certainly no one in the evening when the sun goes down and if it is sad and lonely
in the garden of the dead is to place the colorful cards between my bony fingers.

It is not even one - and I would see even better, for attracting the
cards I only slightly - with violin and bow to my grave, so my mind
that under the grass can umherwankt rotting in dust, swaying to the
currents of sound, like a swan weighs on the glittering waves.

Old songs

Marianne Sinclaire was sitting on a quiet afternoon in late August in her room and ordered their
letters and other papers.

Everything was and stood around her.

Large leather travel bags and iron-loading wagon had moved into the room. Her clothes were thrown
over chairs and sofas. From soil chambers and out of the cupboards and chests of the pickled
everything was brought out, silk and fine Canvas shone, jewelry were put out to be cleaned,
scarves and fur should be selected and checked.

Marianne was in the process to get ready for a long journey.

It was uncertain whether they ever would return home. She stood at a turning point in her
life, and burned so a lot of old letters and diaries.

The memory of the past, they should not . Complain

As she sits there, a packet of her old songs fall into the hand. There were copies of old folk songs that
her mother used to sing to her when she was little. It replaced the cord with which they were bound
together and began to read.

She smiled wistfully, as she had read a while, it was a wonderful
wisdom these old songs announced:

"Do not believe the luck do not
think the signs of happiness, do not think the roses and the lovely
flowers.

"

"Believe not laugh," she said. "Behold, the beautiful maiden Valborg goes in red, decorated in gold
Coach, and yet it is so sad, as if hooves and wheels that pass over
the happiness of her life should.

"

"Believe not dance," she said. "Many a foot glides easily over the board gebohnte meaning while the heart
is heavy as lead. Jung Kirsten joined the dance so cheerful and happy while they danced away
their young lives.

"

"Do not believe the joke," she said. "Some people go to dinner with jesting mouth and would but like
to die, so sad he is.

There sits nicely Adelin and can duke Frydenborgs Heart in nine pieces serve, convinced that
this is the sight, give her the power is to die.

Oh, you poor songs, what are we to believe? Of tears and grief?

Rarely a happy heart sighs, but smiles often a sad mouth. To believe in tears and sighs the
old songs, signs of grief and sorrow. The grief is real, the existing the solid bedrock under
the loose sand. To the grief and can you believe in the Signs of
grief.

But the joy is nothing but grief, which is adjusted. In the world there are actually nothing but
grief.

"Oh, ye disconsolate," said Marianne, "is not how much too short compared to your wisdom the fullness
of life! "

She went to the window and looked out into the garden, where her parents were walking. You
went on the wide paths up and down and talked about all that met her eye; on the grass of the
field and the fowls of heaven.

"Behold," said Marianne, "there is now a heart and sighs of grief, although it has never previously
been so happy. "And suddenly it occurred to her that finally done it all the man himself lies,
that joy and sorrow only by their different ways, conceive of things
depended.

She asked herself whether it was joy or sorrow, what you happened in the last year. She knew little
himself.

She had been through bitter times. Her soul had been ill, she was deep in their Lowering to the
ground bent. For when she had returned home, she had to be himself said, "I will forget everything
bad that my father has done But her heart said. different. "He caused me a deadly pain," it
said, he "has me by the lover separately, it has brought me to despair when he beat the mother.
I wish him no harm, but I am afraid of him.

"And she realized that she had to force himself to calm remain seated when her father sat
down beside her, she felt the greatest desire of him to escape.

She tried to pull himself together, said she was with him as usual and to almost exclusively
in his company. She could dominate, but they suffered unspeakable. It got to the point that
they hated everything about him: his strong, rough voice, his clumsy gait, his large hands,
his entire, huge gigantic figure. They wished him no harm, she did not hurt him, but she could not
him To approach without feeling a sense of horror and disgust. Subjugated
her heart retaliated.

"Thou didst not love me," it said, "but I am still your master, you 'll still end up hating me. "

Accustomed
as she was, watching all that was stirring in her soul, she knew
full well how this horror increased with every day.

At the same time it seemed to her as she was for resistant banned
in their home.

They realized that it would be best if they people would come up
but she could not decide since her illness.

She would never Relief to find this all.

It would only be more unhappy, and one fine Day it would be with
her self-control to an end and she would her father all and say give
him to understand the bitterness of her heart, and would then quarrel
and Ill-formed.

So the spring and the first part of the summer had passed.

In July she had with Baron Adrian engaged, to have their own home.

One fine morning, Baron Adrian was on a magnificent horse burst into
the courtyard.

His hussars jacket had flashed in the sun-blasted, not to speak of his own fresh face and shining
eyes. Melchior Sinclaire himself had to the staircase stood and put him in reception when he arrived.
Marianne had been sitting at the window and sewn.

She had seen him coming, and now heard every word he spoke to her father.

"Good day, sunshine knight," cried the squire.

"You're damned very nice! You should Surely not go courting? "

"Yes, uncle, since you've hit the nail on the head," he replied, laughing.

"Do not you have no shame in my body, boy? What do you want to eat because your wife? "

"I have nothing, uncle! If I had something, I would be careful even to crawl into Ehejoch. "

"What
you say Knights sunshine! But the embroidered jacket did you buy it do? "

"On credit, uncle, on credit!"

"And the horse on which you sit, nice gentleman, this is worth a whole pile of money. Where did
you get that? "

»Borrowed, uncle!"

Which could not resist the large landowner. "God bless you, my boy," he said. "You of course
you need a woman that you spends a good dowry. If you get Marianne can, they just take. "

This put everything between them was quite clear, even before the Baron from his horse increased.
But Melchior Sinclaire knew very well what he was doing, because
Baron Adrian was a good Lad.

Then the suitors had gone to Marianne and blurted out the same with his request.

"Oh, Marianne, Marianne Love, I've spoken with your father. I want to so much to wife. Say that
you want it, Marianne! "

She had coaxed the truth. The old Baron, his father had been tempted back That can buy more empty
pits. Throughout his life, the old Baron pits purchased, and it has never been anything in it.
His mother was concerned, he himself was in Debt fall, and he asked for her hand by his father's
estate and his save hussar jacket. His home, which was Hedeby pasture, across the lake, almost straight
Björne opposite. She knew him very well, but they were peers and playmates.

"You could really marry up with me, Marianne, it's a miserable life I lead. I have to ride
borrowed horses and can not pay my tailor's bill.

       In the long run can not go, yes.

I must take my leave, and then I chase me a bullet through his head. "

"But Adrian! what should a marriage be the only? We are not in the least reciprocally in love.
"

"Yes, about love, I do not care about the junk," he had said it.

"I might like to ride good horses and go hunting, but I'm not a gentleman, I will . Work If I had
only so much money that I take over the estate at home and my mother
could provide carefree days, so I should be quite satisfied.

I wanted to plow and sow, because I love the work. "

And then he had looked at her with his good eye, and she knew he was the truth and said that
he was a man whom one could rely on. She became engaged to him, mainly to get away from home,
but also because she was always good to suffer.

But it would never forget the month that followed now, those August evening when her engagement explained,
was all this time of madness.

Baron Adrian had become every day more silent and melancholy. He came often enough by Bjorn,
sometimes twice a day, but she could not help but notice how out of tune he was. When he met
with others, he could still joke, was in her presence but it quite
impossible to loud silence and boredom.

She understood very well what he was lacking: It was not as easy as he had intended to marry
an ugly girl. Now He had reluctantly taken against them. No one knew better than her how ugly she was.
She had shown him, that they have no desire or love to caresses Insurance had, but it was still
an ordeal for him, of course, to imagine them as his wife, and got
worse every day.

Why does he torment himself like that? Why solved the engagement he not? She had given him
hints that were clear enough.

She herself could do nothing.

Her father had almost said, her reputation vertrüge no other extravagances
in respect of engagements.

Since she had thoroughly despised both equally, and every way, who
led them from the area of ​​its two gentlemen had seemed good.

And then - just a few days after the big engagement party - the envelope had come sudden and wonderful.

*
* * * *

In the gravel paths on Björne just before the staircase was a stone
that much trouble and complaints caused.

Car plunged about horses and people fell on maids, with large Milk
vats of the way, came stumbled and spilled her milk, the stone remained
still there because he had been lying there for so many years.

He had in his lifetime the Parents of the landowner located there, long before anyone thought to
build Björne. The landlord could not see why he should not maintain
clear.

On one of the last days of August but it happened that two maids, who carried a large bucket,
fell on the stone. They were badly injured, and the unwillingness of the stone was great.

It was around breakfast time. The squire made his morning tour, but
since the People were just on the court, Ms Gustava two servants of
this to dig up the stone. They came with shovels and levers, dug and
dug and finally they managed well, the lifted out old troublemakers
out of his hole. Then they carried him into the backyard, the was
a job for six men

Hardly the stone was gone, when the squire came
home and the destruction at first sight saw. Then he became angry.
He claimed that it no longer has the same homestead. Those who had
have the courage to carry away the stone? So Mrs. Gustav had given
the order! This woman but had no heart in his body! Did his wife not
know that he loved the stone? 

And then he went directly to the stone,
picked it up with his arms and carried him from the backyard back
to the courtyard beyond, to the place where he had been lying, where
he threw it out. And it was a stone, with the six men had had their
trouble. This act was in Wermland very much admired.

As he carried
the stone across the yard, Marianne was in the dining room stood at
the window and it looked at. Never before, he had seemed so terrible.
He was their Lord, this horror with the boundless strength! An unreasonable,
capricious master, who never regard to something another took over
on its own desires.

They were at breakfast, and she stood there with
a table knife in his hand. Involuntarily they got it.

Mrs. Gustav
seized them by the wrist. "Marianne!"

"What are you, mother?"

"Marianne,
you saw from so terrible. I was very frightened. "

Marianne looked
at her a long time. She was a small woman with gray hair and eingeschrumpelte
many Wrinkles, although they had only fifty years. Loved her like
a dog without at bats and to reverse shock. She was almost always
in a good mood and still made a sad impression. It was like a storm-tossed
tree on the beach - they had never had peace to grow. She had learned
to walk crooked, she lied, when necessary, and often turned more stupid
than it was to escape allegations. It was entirely the work of her
husband.

"Would you grieve very much, mother if the father were to
die," asked Marianne.

"Marianne, you are angry with your father,
you are angry with him still. Why can not you all again well be now
that you have a new fiance? "

"Oh, mother, I can not help it. What
can I do that I dread him! Know then not even you, how is he? How
can I love him? He is violent, he is raw, he has up tortured, so that
you are grown old before their time. Why he should be our master?
He behaves just like a madman. Why should I honor and respect him?
He is not good He is not merciful. I know that he's strong, he can
kill us any day. He can throw us out of the house whenever he wants. Anna wanted Disa drive to hurry, but that turned upside down off
and sent her a very puzzled look. They believed that Disa not know when It was time to run and
when to go? Did she want to teach them to pull a sled, she, but for more than twenty years,
every stone, every bridge, every fence, every hill had known in a wide radius mile!

Meanwhile, the sleigh bells came nearer and nearer.

"That's him, that he is, I know his bells," laments the old Ulrika.

The sound comes closer. Sometimes he is so unnaturally high that Anna turns around to to see if
Sintram horse with his head already touches her carriage, he soon
dies completely out.

You hear him now right, now left of the lanes, but no. It is as follow If only the ringing of
sleigh bells.

As the night when a man returns from a society, it is: sound the bells in melodies, sing, talk respond.
The forest resounds with their pealing.

Anna longs almost then, that the persecutor will gradually come so close that she herself and
can see his red horse. You will feel quite uncomfortable with this incessant ringing of sleigh.
She is not afraid, it never was, but torment these bells and plague
them.

"The bells torment me," she says. And immediately caught the bell on the floor. "Tormentor
me, "Ding," my torment, torture, torment, torture me, "they sing in all possible keys.

It was not long ago that they are pursued by wolves, that had driven the same way. You had
seen shining in the darkness, the white teeth in the jaws open, they
had thought that they are torn apart by wild beasts of the forest
would.

At that time, but she was not was afraid. A glorious night they had never experienced. Beautiful
and powerful was the horse was that she moved, beautiful and powerful
was the man who shared the joy of adventure with her.

Oh, this old horse, this old, trembling travel companion! She feels so powerless that they would
like to cry. She would do this terrible, exciting bells are not going on.

She still holds and gets out of the carriage. This must end.

Why should they flee, as she was afraid of the evil, despicable villains?

Finally she sees can see from the increasing dusk a horse's head,
and the head follows a whole horse, a carriage, and seated himself
in the carriage Sintram.

She notes however, that it does not look as if they had come from
the highway, this horse; this slide and this man, but rather as if
they were suddenly in front of their eyes and gradually emerged, and
they become ready, stepped out of the darkness.

Anna Ulrika throws the reins and goes to meet Sintram. He holds the
horse.

"Look, look," he says, "what a happy coincidence! Dear Miss Stjarnhok, let me, my travel companions
and share in your slide. He wants this evening to Berga, and I am
in a hurry to get home.

"

"Where is the traveler?"

Sintram buttons on the foot muff and Anna shows a man sleeping on the floor of the carriage content.
"He was a little drunk," is he says, "but what does that make? He sleeps well. It is Incidentally,
a good friend, Miss Stjarnhok - it's Gosta Berling. "

Anna shudder.

"For you I will only say that he who leaves his lover, the devil him
sold.

So I got into his mouth. It is believed, of course, that one really behaves, renounce, that is
the good, to love, which is of evil "!

"What do you mean? What are you talking about? "Asked Anna shaken.

"I mean, Miss Anna would not have let Gosta Berling of itself."

"It was God's will."

"Yes, so it goes. The renunciation of the good and the love of evil. The good Lord like the people
do not look happy. He sends them to wolves, but now set once the case that it was not God,
who sent them, Miss Anna.

Had I not just as it may be, that called my little gray lambs from
the high mountains behind it and the young Husband and three young
girls sent?

If I would have now sent the wolves because I do not want to lose one of those who belong
to me? Now if it was not God, who did it? "

"You should not tempt me to doubt the thing," Anna says in a weak
voice, "Because then I'm lost."

"You see her again," says Sintram and leans over to see the sleeping Gosta Berling, " You his
little finger. The wound never healed since.

The we took the blood, as he signed the pact. He belongs to me. There is great power in the
blood. He is mine. Only love can redeem him, but if I can keep it, he should be all right. "

Anna Stjarnhok fights and fights to shake off the spell that she has taken. This is madness,
pure madness! No one can prescribe his soul to the evil. But it has no power over their own
thoughts, twilight weighs heavily on her, the forest there is dark
and silent.

You can not from the creepy horror of the moment . Exempt

"Does Miss Anna, perhaps," continued Sintram, "that is not much more good in him? Do not believe
it! Has he ever troubled farmers, he has ever cheated poor friends?

Did he ever Played wrong? If he is, Miss Anna, he is ever the lover of a married woman been?
"

"I think you are the evil itself!"

"Let's Swap, Miss Anna! Take Gosta Berling and marry you with him!
Keep it and give that money to Berga!

I want him stick out to you, because you know that he belongs to me. Assume that it is not
God that night the wolves sent, and can replace us! "

"What do you want to have as a replacement?"

Sintram grinned.

"What I want to have? Oh, I'm satisfied with little. I just want the old woman have there in your sleigh,
Miss Anna! "

"Satan, the tempter," said Anna. "Get away from me! Am I my old friend, to leave me, let them
down? Should I give into your hands, that you may order their minds
can bring?

"

"Well, well, quiet, Miss Anna! Think about the thing! Here is a young, beautiful Man, and as
an old woman lived.

I must have one of them. Who do you want me leave? "

Anna laughed, a desperate laugh. "Will Mr. Sintram and I stand here and soul trade To operate as it
operates on the barter market Broby with the horses? "

Yes, accurate way! But when Miss Anna prefers, we can present the
subject to another Be attacked.

We can think of the Stjärnhöksche honor. "

And then he starts with a loud voice to call his wife, who is sitting
in Anna's carriage, and the unspeakable horror of the young girl immediately
obeyed this gets out of the carriage and is shuddering and shaking
over to him.

       

"Look, look! An obedient wife, "says Sintram. "Miss Anna can do nothing against that it comes
when her husband calls. Now I lift Gösta from my sled and let him here. I leave him forever,
Miss Anna. Whosoever will, may take him now. "

He bent down to lift Gösta, but since Anna is bent down low to him,
that they almost touched his face, pierced him with her eyes and hissed
like a wild Animal: "In the name of God, go home!

Do not you know who there in the room in the rocking chair sits and
waits for you?

Do you dare to let this wait? "

It is, Anna almost the culmination of all the horrors of the day to see how these words contribute
to the evil man. He moves on the reins turns the sled and drive home, the horse with whips
and wild horse of doom driving. The terrible slope goes down the perilous journey, during a long
streak of sparks under the sled runners and the horse's hooves in
the thin March snow is visible.

Anna Ulrika Dillner Stjarnhok and remain alone on the road, but they do not talk a single word.
Ulrika shudder at Anna's wild eyes, and Anna, the poor old man, for
whose sake she had sacrificed her lover, to say a word.

She would cry, rave, roll on the road, and sprinkle their heads with sand and snow can. Previously,
they had felt the uplifting effect of the renunciation, and now she only felt the bitterness. What
was it like to sacrifice his love for the horror, the mistress of !

Sacrifice

They drove to Berga to change without a word but when they were there and the door to the living
room was opened, there was Anna Stjarnhok the first and only time in her life in a faint. Sintram
sat in there and Gosta Berling, talking quietly. Dense tobacco smoke filled the room, she
had been there at least an hour.

Anna Stjarnhok fainted, old Ulrika stood there quietly. She had noticed very well that it was not
his accuracy with the one who pursued them on the road.

Later disposed of the captain and his wife, it so bad with the Sintram that the old Ulrika when
they stayed at Berga.

He wanted to make it really not crazy, he said.

* * * * *

Their children later times! I do not ask that anyone believe these old stories should. It may
indeed be nothing but lies and fantasies. But the regret that over the Heart weight back and forth
until it screams and moans like the floor boards in hall Sintram
under the bullying of the chair, and the doubt that is ringing in
the ears, like sleigh bells before Anna Stjarnhok ears in the lonely
woods rang out, when will the lies and pipe dreams?

Oh, that it could be!

Ebba Dohna history

The beautiful headland at the eastern shore of Löfsees which plays the gentle waves of the
bay is the proud promontory where the castle Borg is the need to enter Take care!

Never seen the lake more beautiful than from the top of this promontory. No one knows how beautiful
The lake of my dreams, before he has from there the morning mist
over the smooth surface see slide before it from the window in the
small cabinet, where so many memories live a rosy sunset reflected
in the lake has seen.

But I still say: "Do not go there"

For perhaps take up the request, in the mourning filled halls of the old castle to stay, maybe
you earn you this beautiful spot as property, and if you young rich
and happy, are you there, maybe hit your home with a young wife.

No, it is better not to see the beautiful headland, as on credit can no luck . Live You need to
know: How rich, how happy you may be that you in the castle forfeiture,
the old, tearful boards soon netted from your tears , these walls
that could give so many action sound, be your sighs absorb and retain.

It is a rude fate rests on this beautiful castle. It is as if the accident would be there buried,
but could not find peace in his grave, constantly it gets up to the to scare the living. If
I were to Mr. Borg, I would rummage through the earth, both the stone base of the pine forest
as the floor of the basement and outside on the black earth the fields
until I could find the worm-eaten corpse of the witch, and then I
would her a Grave in consecrated ground in the churchyard Svartfjöer
give.

And at the funeral I would not Save with the payment for the bell-ringer, so that the bell
rang long and loud for them, and I would be the priest and the sacristan rich gifts to send
to them with redoubled force to eternal rest inaugurated, with speech and song.

And if that does not help, I would on a stormy night in the old wooden walls Fire and put the flames
consume everything can be so enticing that people no longer allowed to live in this home of
the accident. Then no one should that damn place enter only the black magpies in the church
tower should have permission, a new settlement to invest in the large chimney wall, which is
sooty black and sinister than the Brand square stands.

But I certainly would be strange feel uneasy at the sight of flames
beat up over the roof, and thick clouds of smoke, the red from the
glow of fire and full of sparks that roll over the old courtyard.

In creasing and hissing of the fire would I think to hear the complaint of the homeless memories,
the blue peaks of the flame I would think to see the displaced spirits of the house. I would think
about how embellished sorrow, as the wreck is surrounded with a glow, I would cry as if a temple
the destruction of old gods had ordained.

But still, you Rabe unfortunate news of Santander!

Wait until the night has come, when you order the bet you complain about the owls of the forest!
Borg is still the castle of sunshine shone around high on the headland, protected by his park
giant fir trees and snow-capped Fields down there glisten in the
sharp sunshine day of March, yet one hears within its walls, the joyous
laughter of the merry countess Elizabeth.

On Sundays she goes to the Svartsjöer Church, located near Borg, and
to invite the service, a very small company to the castle.

The bailiff and his wife Munkerud care to come and the main man with a family from Berga and
the chaplain and the evil Sintram.

And when is arrived Gosta Berling walk across the ice to Svartsjö, she invites him, too one. Why should
not Gosta Berling invite?

You do not know that the gossips have it start to whisper that Gosta Berling so often to the
east bank is to meet the young countess.

Perhaps he is also to drink with Sintram and play, but it does not speak much. All know that his
body of iron, with his heart but it is a different matter.

No one believes that he was a bright pair of eyes and blond hair that curls around a white
forehead, can see, without falling in love.

The young countess is good against him. There is nothing strange in it, it is good to all. She
takes ragged beggar children on his lap, and when on the road to
a poor old pedestrian passes, they can keep the driver and takes the
shivering in their Slide.

Gösta likes to sit in the little blue cabinet, from where, after the magnificent view north to the
lake has, and reads her poems. It can not be anything wrong? He forgets ever, that they have a countess
and he is a poor, homeless adventurer, and it's good for him intercourse
with a woman who stands high and holy to him.

He could just as well because think, fall in love with the Queen of Sheba, whose image in the Pulpitur
Svartsjöer Church decorated, as in it.

He wishes only to have the opportunity to serve her, like a page is its high lady, strap on their
skates to keep her yarn and draw their sledges to be allowed. It can be no question of love between
the two, but he is just the man, who at a romantic, innocent enthusiasm
can feel happy.

The young count is still and quiet, and Gösta is bubbling vivacity.

It's just the traffic, the young countess wants. No one who sees
them thinks that they have a forbidden love in his heart.

In dance and merriment she thinks.

It would look most like, that the earth would be quite smooth, without
stones, rocks and lakes, so that over the entire surface could then
dance.

On narrow, thin-soled, silk shoes she wants from the cradle dance to the grave.

But that's not indulgent to talk with young women.

If these guests get to Borg and have lunch, after dinner the men maintain to go into the room of
the Count to sleep or smoke, and maintain the old ladies in the hall to sink into armchairs and their venerable
heads against the high-back to support, however, and the Countess
Anna Stjarnhok go in the blue cabinet and change confidential Releases
in the infinite from.

Here they sit on Sunday, after Anna has brought Stjarnhok Ulrika Dillner to Berga.

No one is all over the world as the unhappy young girl. All their liveliness is disappeared,
passing it with the cheerful despite everything, they all opposed, their zunahe came.

Everything that has happened on the way home, is in her memory in the gloom absorbed, from which
it was conjured up, they do not have a single clear impression more.

Yes, one, and poisons their souls.

"Now if it was not God, who did it," she whispers to himself again and again. "If now it was not
God who sent the wolves? "

It seeks signs and wonders.

She peered at the heavens and the earth. But she sees no Finger from the clouds stretched to her
to show the way. No pillar of cloud, no pillar of fire goes before
her.

As it now sits just opposite the Countess in the small room, her gaze falls on a small bouquet of
blue anemones, held by the countess in her hand.

Like a flash it flashed through her that she knows where the anemones have grown, and she knows who
picked them.

You need not ask.

Where in the whole area has grown out of early April, anemones, in the birch grove on the
beach at Ekeby hill?

She sits and stares at the little blue stars, these happy, all people love these little prophets,
which are beautiful in themselves, still radiant with the brilliance of all of the beautiful,
they promised all of the beautiful, that is to come there. And while she sits there and she looks,
runs along an anger in her soul, as the muffled thunder, paralyzing like lightning.

"By what right, she thinks," with Countess Dohna this bouquet blue anemones, the hill on the beach
picked by Ekeby is? "

They were together all the tempter, Sintram, the Countess, all these
people who Gosta Berling wanted to entice to what was evil, but they
wanted to defend him, defend him against all.

If it should cost her her heart blood, they wanted to do it.

She feels that she pulled the flower from the hand of the countess,
thrown to the ground, trampled, must see crushed before it leaves
the little blue cabinet.

She feels, and she begins a battle with the little blue stars. Outside in the hall support the
venerable old ladies heads against the backs of chairs and suspect nothing, the Lords puff away
in peaceful and leisurely in the room of Count on their pipes - everything breathes peace only in
the small blue cabinet rages a desperate struggle.

Oh, how smart they act, continued to have their hands from the sword,
they, and not to mention the know to wait to appease their hearts
and let God exercise can!

Always goes the restless heart astray. Always makes evil evil, only worse.

But, believe Anna Stjarnhok that she finally sees a finger in the clouds added.

"Anna," said the countess, 'tell me a story. "
"What are they to act?"

"Oh," said the countess, the ostrich with
her white hand affectionately, "you do not know anything to talk about
love? "

"No, I know nothing of love."

"How you talk! Is not there
a place that Ekeby is, and not because of teeming admirers? "

"Yes,"
says Anna, "there is a place that Ekeby is, and live there men, the
marrow sucked out of the country that make us unfit for serious work,
the growing youth seduce and guide our best minds astray. Want to
hear from them? Will you love stories hear from them? "

"Yes, I will!
I hate the Cavaliers well! "

Since Anna is talking Stjarnhok speaks
in short verses like an old book of Psalms, for it is close because
of stormy feelings of being smothered. Secret passion trembles under
each has spoken and the Countess her anxious and eager to listen at
the same time:

"What is the love of a gentleman, what is the faith
of a gentleman? A lover today one morning, one in the east, one in
the West. Nothing was too high, it is not too low: the one day a countess,
the other day, a beggar girl. Nothing in the world is so spacious
his heart. But woe to the poor, who loves a gentleman! You have to
look after him when bezecht at the grave edge he is. You must watch
in silence as he squandered the home of their children. They must
tolerate it, that he idolized other women. Oh, Elisabeth, a gentleman
asks a honest woman for a dance, she should refuse him, he gives her
a bouquet of flowers, they should throw him to the ground and trample
on, she loves him, she should die than marry him. - Among the admirers
was one who was a deposed priest. He had lost his office because he
drank. Drunk he had come to church. He drank the altar wine. Have
you heard of him? "

"No."

"Right after he was shocked his office,
he wandered about as a beggar in the country. He drank like a madman.
He could steal in order to make vodka. "

What's his name? "

He no
longer dwells on Ekeby. - The major's wife took charge of him, gave
him clothes and talking about your mother, him as a tutor for your
husband, the young Count Henry, to take. "

"A remote pastor?"

"Oh,
he was a young, strong man and had a good experience. There was nothing
wrong with him, if only he did not drink. Countess Marta took something
not so sure. It amused her, the provost and to play a trick on the
chaplain. But she ordered that no one with their children should speak
of his past, because there was going to lose her son the respect and
Daughter would not have tolerated him, for she was a saint.

"So he
came here to Borg. He stopped at the door, he sat on the corner of
the chair, he was silent down at the table and fled into the park
when guests arrived.

"But down there on the lonely roads he often
met the young Countess Ebba Dohna. It belonged not one of those who
love the noisy celebrations that roared through the halls of the castle,
The Countess was a widow since. It was not one of those defiant eyes
in the world send forth. She was so sweet and so shy. Even after she
completed her seventeenth year had, she was so shy as a child, but
she was beautiful with her brown eyes and delicate Redness on the
cheeks. Her slender body was a little bent. Her small hand pushed
with a weak pressure in ours. Her little mouth was the quietest, while
the most serious of all mouths. And then her voice, her soft, soft
voice, the words so beautiful and spoke slowly, but never fresh youth,
youth warm sound, but slowly with a faint accent, like the final chord
of a tired artist.

"She was not like others. Her foot touched the
ground as easily as he was a banger refugee. She kept her eyes lowered,
not to be disturbed in the contemplation of the glory inner images.
Her soul had been when she was a child, turned away from Earth.

"When
she was little, her grandmother used to tell their stories, and sat
one evening both of them on fire, but with the fairy tales they were
finished. They had outlived their time, who had romping like the flames
of the fire in splendor and glory, but now were The heroes slain,
and the beautiful princesses were charred - until the next fire she
awoke again. - But the hand of the little ones were still on the knee
of his grandmother, and she ran out of the silk, about this strange
substance that could scream like a little bird. And this little movement
should mean her request because she was one of the Children who ask
never in words.

"Then the old woman began softly to tell her of a
little child in the Jewish country, a small child who was born to
be a great king. The Angels had the ground with Hymns met, as it was
born. Way from the East came, guided by the Stars of the sky, bringing
gold and incense, and old men and women prophesied of his glory. This
child grew to greater beauty and higher wisdom than all other children.
 Even
if the chemicals in the batteries not the terrible cold solidified, threatened in this icy atmosphere
but Allen's death - the horrible death of freezing. That Robur had undertaken to ride in the
warm season on the pole, probably wants to address; amid the eternal night of the Antarctic winter,
however, this seemed like a string Madman.

This thought had the chairman and the secretary of the Weldon Institute, as it now takes to
the extreme end of the New World looked to areas which Although to America, but certainly not
part of the United States.

Yes, what was this unfathomable Robur still all before? He was
barely reached, as Countess Marta summoned him and told him strange things.

"Your wife has been out overnight, Henrik. She's been gone for many hours. She came in Accompanied
by a man back. I heard him her good night said, I know who he is. I heard it when she went and when
they occurred when the well was hardly their intention well is. It goes up behind, Henrik! It
goes up behind the hypocritical nature of the profiled Curtains at the windows is just to annoy
me. She has never loved you, my poor Boy. Her father wanted to know
well married.

They took you to be supplied. "

They made their case so well that Count Henry was beside himself. He wanted a divorce . Apply
He wanted his wife back to her father.

"No, my son," said Countess Marta, "in the way they would be completely used. You is spoiled
and has had a bad education. I will bring them, I will them on the path of duty back to them. "

And
the Count called in the young countess and told her that she now
under his mother should stand.

Oh, what a scene was now! A miserable comedy is probably not in this the funeral home consecrated
been played.

Many had bad words to hear them.

He raised his hands to heaven, complaining to God because he allows that his name was dragged
by a shameless woman in the dirt. He threatened her with his clenched
fist and asked what punishment they big enough for their crime think.

She was not afraid of her husband, you still believed that she had
acted rightly.

She said she had already got a terrible cold, but it was probably punishment enough.

"Elizabeth! Said" Countess Marta, "this is nothing you can joke about which one."

"We both," replied the young woman, "have we can never agree on when
it was time to jest or to be serious.

"

"But you must understand it can, Elisabeth, that no respectable woman her house in the middle
of night can leave and wander around with a notorious adventurer.

"

Since conceptual Elizabeth that her mother had decided to throw them into poverty. She realized
that she must fight to the utmost, so it does not this woman could
succeed, a terrible misfortune to bring on them.

"Henrik," she asks, "do not let your mother come between us.

I will tell you how the whole thing has happened. You are just, you will not condemn me unheard.
I will tell you everything and you will see that I acted the way
you act to me taught you.

"

The count nodded in silence as a sign of his approval, and now told Countess Elisabeth, as she had
come to hitting Gosta Berling to the path of evil. She told me everything what had happened in
the little blue cabinet, and as her conscience-driven, the rescue,
which they did wrong.

"I had no right to condemn him," she said, "and my husband has taught me self, that no sacrifice
is too great when one wants to make amends for a wrong again.

Is not it, Henry? "

Count Henry turned to his mother.

"What do you say, mother?" He asked.

His little body was now very stiff with dignity, and his high, narrow forehead, he had put
in majestic folds.

"I," replied the countess, "I say that Anna Stjarnhok is a smart girl
and that she probably knew what she was doing when she told Elisabeth
that story.

"

"You misunderstand me most favorite, mother," said the count, "I wonder
what you on this story say.

Countess Marta Dohna has tried, their daughter, my sister, with a marriage to a to persuade
deposed clergy?

"

Countess Marta was silent a moment. Oh, how stupid this was but Henrik! Now he was on completely
wrong track. The hunting dog followed the hunter himself and let the rabbit. But if Märta Dohna
for a moment had been lost for the answer, so she changed her mind
here soon.

"My dear son," she said with a shrug, "we have every reason these
old stories to let go of the unhappy man, it's the same reason that
I now causes to ask you to avoid all public scandal.

Indeed, it is highly probable that he got killed that night. "

She spoke in a soft, complaining be sound, but there was no truth
in her speech.

"Elizabeth had slept so long and has not heard that already people around posted around the lake
in order to seek Mr. Berling.

He has not returned to Ekeby, and one fears that he drowned. The ice has now risen tomorrow. Look, the
Forward it has splintered into a thousand pieces. "

Countess Elizabeth looked out, the sea was almost ice-free since. Since she was ashamed of her
She had wanted to escape God's own justice. She had lied and dissembled. You had been wrapped in the
white cloak of innocence.

The desperation threw himself in front of her husband on his knees, and the commitment level of
the her breast

"Judge me! Contrary me! I loved him. I ruffle his hair, I tear my clothes in grief. Me everything
is irrelevant now that he is dead. I do not care it to defend myself. You shall know the whole
truth. I told my husband the Love of my heart removed and given to
a stranger.

Oh, I unhappy, I have let me entice you to forbidden love! "

Thou pretty desperate!

Lie there at the feet of your judges and tell them everything! Welcome, Martyrdom, accepted,
dishonor, welcome! Oh, how can you the lightning of heaven To force
down down on your young head?

       

Tell your husband how you frightened you when the passion has overwhelmed
you, like you trembled at the wickedness of your heart.

Dear you were the ghosts on the Kirchhof met as the demons in your own breast.

Tell them like you, you were expelled from God's face, you feel unworthy test on to walk the
earth. In prayers and tears you've struggled. "Oh, God, save me! Oh, son God, you who cast out
evil spirits, save me from ruin, "So you have prayed.

Tell them that you thought it was best to hide everything. No one should your wickedness get
to know. You thought that it was pleasing to God, if you so trade test. You thought also that
you walkedst on God's ways than you wanted to save the man you loved.

He knew nothing of your love. He should not fall into ruin because of you. Did you know what was
right? Did you know what was wrong? God alone knew it, and he had sent you. He had met the
idol of your heart. He was up on the big redemptive path out of repentance.

Tell them that you know, that is the concealment of any redemption. The demons love the darkness.
Let your hands clench the Court unless the scourge! The penalty is
like soothing balm on the wounds of sin fall.

Your heart yearns for the suffering.

Tell them all this while you are on your knees and wringing their
hands in unspeakable pain, with the wild tone of desperation talking
and laughing with wild thoughts Punishment and dishonor, welcome to
your husband takes you up and lifts off the ground.

"Behave yourself, as befits a countess Dohna fitting, or I'll ask
my mother, you like a child to punish.

"

"Do with me what you want!"

As was the verdict of the Count: "My mother prayed for you, so you may here live in my house. In the
future, but they will command, and you will obey. "

* * * * *

You see the path of repentance!

The young countess is the least of all services become maids.

How long, oh, how long?

How long is a proud heart will be able to bend?

How long are impatient silent lips can, as long as a violent hand
shall be to hold back?

Beneficial is the misery of humiliation. During the back aches from
the hard work, silent heart.

To the one who sleeps only a few short hours on a hard bed of straw, sleep comes unbidden.

Even if the old woman transforms into an evil spirit to torment the
young sufficiently to, they would like to thank their benefactress.

Yet the evil is not dead in it. Drive the Dead tired on the morning of the four clock! Give the
unskilled worker a day's work at immoderate the heavy loom!

That's good. The penitent may not have enough power itself, the whip to swing with enough intensity.

When
spring comes the big wash, can they stand at the Countess Marta Waschzober
in the wash house.

She herself, to look after their work. "Your water's too cold, she says, draws water from a boiling
kettle and pour it over her bare arms.

It's a cold day when the washer women are at the lake and wash the
clothes have to.

Showers move over them and soak them to the skin. Her clothes are heavy as lead. Working with
the washing wood is hard. The blood leaps out among the fine nails.

But Countess Elisabeth does not complain. Praise be to God's goodness! There are probably some
other refreshment for the repentant soul as the suffering?

The sharp drop node of the scourge soft as rose petals on the back of the penitent.

The young woman soon finds out that Gosta Berling lives.

The old woman had her only elicit a confession want. Yes, what then? It is God's will have been!
On the way he has the sinner to the Path of repentance enticed.

Only one of them beängstiget. How should it endure her mother, whose heart God sake has so hardened?
Oh, he will judge mildly. It must be bad, to help the sinner, God's love to win again.

She does not know how often a soul which has killed all the other
delights, a true pleasure investigated in the cruelty.

If the intolerant, darkened soul flattery and caresses is deprived and the ecstasy of the dance
and the thrill of the game as they appeared in their dark Deep down and brings out the cruelty.
There is still a source of joy for the relaxed Emotions, namely the animal and human cruelty.

The
old man is himself aware of any malice. You only believe that they have a frivolous wife punishes,
and it is because at night for hours awake and ponders new tortures after. Woe to her that she
is committing sacrilege! The work that this great boon transformed her into a martyr, in a fine!

One evening she walks through the house and leaves from the young countess with a light shine.
It bears no candlestick in his hand.

"The light is" burned down, says the boy.

"Is the light burned down, let the candle" burning, Countess Marta replied.

And they go on until the smoking wick burned on the hand disappears.

       But these are just little things.

There is torment for the soul, exceeding any physical pain. Countess Marta invites a visit,
leaving the hostess serve the guests at their own tables.

See, this is the big day of the penitent! They are strangers in their degradation . See You will
see that it is no longer worthy to sit at her husband's table.

O, with which cold scorn, the cold eyes do not rest on her!

But it should be a thousand times worse!

No eyes met hers. All at the table, men and women sit in silence, out of tune there.

But she collects all like glowing coals, and places it on her head. Is their sin because so frightening?
Is it a shame to dwell near her?

And then comes the temptation: Anna Stjarnhok that has been her friend,
and the magistrate from Munkernd, Anna's neighbor, they embrace, as
it comes to them, you take the roast dish out of hand, you push a
chair and not let her do.

"Sit with us, my child, says the mayor," You've done nothing wrong. "

And with one voice declare all the guests when they will not sit at the table, then they leave the
house. They are not a constable. They do not dance to Countess Märtas pipe. Do not be so easily
fooled as have the imbecilic Count!

"Oh, you good gentlemen Oh, dear friends! Do not be so merciful! It forces me my sin to trumpet
himself. There is one, I have too much.

"
"But child, you suspect have no idea what is sin! You do not know
how innocent you are. Gösta Berling did not even know, to keep it
liebhattest. Take your place again in your Let a! You have done nothing
wrong. "

They maintain their courage for a time and are themselves
suddenly cheerful as the children. Jokes and laughter echoes around
in circles. The hot-blooded, easily agitated people so good, but nevertheless
they are sent by the tempter. You try and tell her that they have
a Martyr, and mock Countess Marta quite publicly, whether it was an
old witch. But they do not understand. You do not know how the soul
yearns for purity, they know not, as the penitent is forced from his
heart to the stones of the path and exposure to the hot sunshine.

Sometimes
has to Countess Elisabeth whole days sitting still at the hoop, and
there tells the old Countess her endless stories of Gosta Berling,
the priest and adventurer. Enough her memory is not sufficient, they
invented something and ensures only that his name of the young Wife
all day sounds in the ears. She fears the most. looks to such days
them that their repentance is never an end. Your love will not die.
She believes that it is rather himself die. Your body forces begin
to wane. It is often very sick.

"Where as your knight?" The countess
asked mockingly. "Day after day I saw him at the top expected of the
Cavaliers. Why does he stormed the castle Borg do not sit on the throne
and throws me and tied your husband in the tower? Did he forget that?
"

You feel almost a need to defend him and say that they themselves
forbidden him has to inflict upon her any help. But no, it's not to
mention the best to remain silent and suffer.

From day to day more
then they disappear in the fire of over-exertion. She is rooting resistant
and is so weak that they can hardly keep himself upright. It has only
one wish: to die. The strong forces of life are banished. The love
and joy do not dare to stir. She has no fear of suffering.

* * *
* *

It is as if her husband no idea of ​​their existence. He sits
most of the day locked in his room and studied half-illegible handwriting
and old klecks term Pressure.

He reads noble letters on parchment
with the Swedish Empire label, large and powerful, from red wax and
hidden in a turned wooden cap. He studied old shield badge with white
lilies in the field and grabbing in blue. On such things he appreciated
which he knows to be interpreted with ease. And he read again and
again old funeral orations and Personnel of the noble Earl Dohna,
in which their actions with those of the heroes of Israel and the
gods of Greece are compared.

These old things have always made it
fun. At his young wife he's had enough . Think 

Countess Marta said
a word that has killed off all the love in him, "You got you your
money arrested for, "Something like that can probably tolerate a man.
This erases all love. Now it was him no matter what happened to this
young woman. If his mother on the path of duty attributed, so that
was good. Count Henrik had a great admiration for his mother.

This
misery lasted a month. But all the time was not so stormy and turbulent,
as it may seem, if the events compressed into a few pages written
are. Countess Elizabeth is always a calm exterior are carried to the
show. Only the einemal, when she heard that Gosta Berling should be
dead, she was overwhelmed by emotion. But so great was her remorse
for her husband that she had been unable to keep their love, that
they probably would have to be tortured to death Countess Marta, if
not a Evenings talking their old housekeeper, with her would have.

"Countess
need to talk to the count," she said. "My God, woman are Countess
such a child. Countess do not even know what is coming on, but I see
very well as it is so ordered. "

But that was precisely this that
they could not tell her husband as long as it such a black Suspicion
they harbored. 

"How do you get so lonely here, Lisei?" I asked. "What happened? Where is your father?"

"In prison, Paul."

"Your father, the good man - but come with me, I stand here with a good woman in labor; she knows
you, I have often told her of you. "

And hand in hand, as once as children, we went to the house of my good master, the We have looked
forward from the window. "The Lisei it is!" I cried when we entered the room, "Just think,
Mistress, the Lisei!"

The good woman put her hands together over her chest. "Holy Mother of God, pray for us! the Lisei
- so shall have been looking's - But, "she continued," because you feel like with together
since the old sinner "- and she pointed with an outstretched finger
to the prison home Over There - "the Paulsen I did say that you people
are honest child!"

A moment later the girl but she moved further into the room and pressed them in their Chair down,
and when now Lisei to answer her question was started, they have
their a steaming cup of coffee to his lips.

"Now, take a drink," she said, "and only come back to you, the hands are you so very verklommen.
"

And drink the Lisei had, with her two bright tears rolled into the
cup, and only then she could tell.

She said not now, as always and as before, in the solitude of her
grief, in the dialect their home, only a slight hint of it had remained,
because her parents were also not to come down to our coast, so they
had to but mostly in the middle Germany stopped.

Several years ago the mother had died. "Trust the Father not, "she had her daughter at the
last moment even whispered in his ear," his child's heart is too good for this world. "

Lisei broke at the memory into violent weeping, not even on the wanted again new fully donated
drinking cup, with which the master intended to breastfeed their tears, and only after a considerable
time continue to report they could.

Immediately after the death of the mother it was her first work in place of the to have women's roles
in the puppet shows teach by her father. In between were the Funeral ceremonies and the first concern
for masses for the dead read, then, the fresh grave leaving behind, were driven into father and
daughter turn into the country and had, as before, their pieces played:
the prodigal son, the Saint Genevieve, and how hot they might otherwise
have.

So they were yesterday came on the trip in a big church village, where their lunch break had
held.

On the hard bench at the table at which they ate their frugal meal,
Tendler's father was half an hour in a deep sleep decreased, while
outside Lisei had concerned the feeding of their horses.

Shortly thereafter, well wrapped in blankets, were drove them out again in the grim Winterkaelte.

"But
we were nit far," Lisei told, "just behind the village is a country riding on us broken in and was
nagging and gemordiot. From the table box should the landlord with a bag His money stolen, and
my innocence was Vaterl yet been alone in the room there! Ah, we have no home, no friends, no
honor, no one knows we are nit! "

"Child, child," said the mistress, by hinueberwinkte to me, "sin against thee not!"

I was silent because Lisei had not so wrong in their actions .-- They were in the village zurueckgemusst;
the wagon with all that it loaded, the mayor was there, held back been, but the old Tendler had
received the instruction, the way to the city next to the horse the country rider herzutraben.
Lisei in the latter rejected several times, was in some Distance
walked behind, confident that they at least until the good Lord the
Case elucidate the prison of her father will be able to share. But
- no resting on their Suspected, rightly, the inspector they had hunted
as an intrusive of the door, the to a shelter in his house have not
the slightest claim.

Lisei wanted but still do not understand, they
said it was even harder than any punishment, the later, but certainly
the real rogues would still overtake, but she adds the same added
that she would wish him such a hard punishment nit, if only the good
of their innocence Vaterl the day come, oh, who'll survive's certainly
nit! He went without rest, the whole evening and the all
night, until he came early in the morning at sunrise on a small farm called Löfdala, was his.

It
was so early that there is still no one was awake.

Liliencrona sat on the green rocker front of the main building and looked at his property. Good
God was a beautiful home it but not on God's earth. The lawn before the house was covered
with fine, bright green grass. A similar grass is no more. The sheep were allowed to graze on it,
and roamed the children there with her toys, but he remained always the same tight and green. He was
never mowed at least once a week, the housewife all the branches, leaving all the straw and all
the dead leaves of the fresh grass sweep. He looked at the gravel before the house and suddenly
pulled back his feet. The children had raked him late in the evening pretty colorful, and his
big feet had done fine work in a real destruction. Yet how to this spot all grew up! The six
mountain ash, which guarded the yard were as high as Book and had such a broad crown such as
oaks. Such trees had certainly never seen before. They were magnificently with the thick, overgrown
with trees and yellow lichen with the great white flower clusters that protruded from the dark
foliage. He was in heaven and its Stars think. It was really wonderful how the trees grew there.
There stood an old pasture, so thick that two men were unable to span. She was now hollow and
cracked, and the flash you had stolen the crown, but she would not die. Every spring, sprouted
fresh green tufts from the main trunk bent on to show that she lived.

The buckthorn on the eastern gable of the house had become so great
that it the whole house overshadowed.

The whole finished with sod roof was white with the falling petals because the alder had finished
flowering.
 

Of course, this he believed the women were not such a saint as she is trying tasks. Self-love
and coquetry from beginning to end! They should only imagine what he felt had when he came home
from hunting. It was him as he wade into ice water. The pain he would never get over again. He would
accompany him throughout life. He would never again become a man.

She tried to explain how the whole thing had happened. She sought to prove that she was always
faithful still.

Yes, it did not matter, because now he no longer love them. Now he sees through them. You is
a egotist.

She had never loved him. Without a word, without a greeting she had of him gone.

Then he came back again and again. She had a nearly over. She could be angry him not. She understood his
anger all too well. A real break, they also feared not.

Finally, she was still restless. Was it really such a turnover occurred to him, that he could
not love them?

Gosta, I was selfish when I went to Sjö to get the Major? I knew very
well that the leaves were there.

It is not pleasant, in snow and cold thin to go dancing shoes. "

"The love lives on love alone and" not of services and benefits, said
Gosta.

"So you want that we are alien to each other in the future should
Gösta?"

"Yes, I will."

Gosta Berling's very capricious. "

"What they say to me."

He was cold as ice and thawing, and in fact she herself was even colder. The self-criticism laughed
derisively about their efforts to play the lovers.

Gosta, "she said, making a last effort," I have never intentionally blow you done, though it
may have seemed. I beg you, forgive me! "

"I can not forgive you."

She knew that she could recover if only a single undivided feeling would have possessed. And she
tried, the passionate play. The Eisaugen mocked her, but she tried it on just in case. She did not
lose it.

"Do not go, Gosta, do not go in anger from me! Remember how ugly I've become. I can no more love.
"

"Even I do not love you anymore," he said. "You must dareinfinden
up that one on your heart occurs as you step on the other.

"

Gosta, I can never love anyone but you! Forgive me! Do not leave me!

You are the only one who is able to rescue me from myself. "

He pushed her from him. You do not speak the truth, "he said with
icy calm.

"What do you want from me, I do not know, but I see that you're lying.
Why do you want to hold me?

You are rich, you will miss it Never suitors! "

So he left.

And no sooner had he closed the door when the longing and the pain in all its majesty Entry
into Marianne's heart stopped.

The love that her own beloved child, came out of the angle at which the Eisaugen it banned
had. Then came they, the highly anticipated, now that it was too late. Now she came forward,
serious and powerful - and the pain and the longing carried the train
of her royal mantle.

When Marianne was able to say with certainty that Gosta Berling had left her, felt they have a formal
physical pain, so violent that it was almost numb from it. She pressed hands against his heart and stayed
for hours sitting on the same spot, with tears loose Kummer wringing.

And they themselves suffered, not a stranger, not an actress - no,
she herself was.

Why was her father and had been separated?

Their love was not yet dead, only in their state of weakness after illness, she could not feel their
power.

Oh God! Oh God! That she had lost him! Oh God, that she wakes up too late!

Oh, he was the only one he was the master of her heart! From him she
could endure anything.

Hardness and angry words from him they bent only to humble love. Had he beaten, they would be
executed like a dog crawling to him to kiss his hand.

She did not know what to do in order to provide relief in this horrible pain.

She took a pen and paper and wrote with feverish haste.

First, she wrote of her Love, of her loss, she begged for his love, only for his mercy. It
was a kind of poetry that she wrote.

When she finished, she thought that, if this came to mind but would have to believe that she
had loved him. And why they should not send him what they had written? She wanted to do it the next
day and she was certain that it will lead him back to her.

The next day, ranking them and fought with them. What she wrote, seemed
so insignificant so stupid.

     There was neither rhyme nor rhythm. It
     was pure, sheer prose. He would certainly
     only laugh at such verses. Her pride awoke.
     He no longer loved her, it was a terrible
     humiliation, to beg for his love.
     
     The intelligence came forward and said she could
     be glad that they related to this Gösta had escaped - it would only
be sprung from sad circumstances.

     
     
     But the agony of her heart was so strong
     that the feeling of finally gained the upper
     hand. Three days after they had become aware of
     their love, were the verses in an envelope down and this with
     Gosta Berling's name provided. But they were
     never shipped.

     For until she found a suitable messenger,
     they heard such news of Gösta that
     they saw that it was too late to regain
     it.
     
     It was the sorrow of her life
     that she had not sent the verses time, while there
     was in their power to win it.

     All her pain culminated
     in that point: "Had I waited so long not
     only had I not been waiting for so many days!
     "
     
     The happiness of life, or at least had the reality of
     life these written Words to capture
     her. She was firmly convinced that they would have returned it to
her.

     
     
     But the grief she rendered the same service as love. He made it a whole
     People with the ability to indulge in good
     and evil.

     Burning feelings flowed freely through
     her mind, without being hampered by the icy cold of the self-criticism.

And
     so it happened that she was disfigured in spite of their
     awareness still loved by many.
     

     But it is said that she could never quite forgotten Gosta
     Berling. She mourned for him, as one mourns the death
     of a wasted life.
     
     And their poor verses were widely read for a time are long forgotten.

But is something strangely touching about them as I see them here
before me, on yellowed paper and written in faded ink, with a fine,
elegant handwriting.

All deprivation a life is contained in these poor words, and I write with a certain secret
from earthquakes, as lived in their mystical powers.

I ask you to read and think about them. Who knows what power they have can, if they were sent?
They are passionate enough to maintain a to beget emotion. Maybe they could lead him back to
her.

They are poignant enough, tender enough in their clumsy formlessness. No one can they do different.
No one can cherish the wish to them in the chains of rhyme and rhythm forced to watch. And yet
it is sad to think so that it is this imperfection it has prevented them to send in time.

I
ask you to study it and you love them!

A man who was in great distress, wrote it.

Loved you, baby, but never Shall the joy of love cost you. Storms of passion shook up, Rejoice,
O soul, now you found peace! Not lift the wings of heavenly bliss. Rejoice, O soul, now you found
peace! Not sink down in more pain night Oh, never!

Loved you, baby, but never Blazed your soul in Flare. Like a hall with scorched grass Filled up
gluten a fleeting hour! Clouds of suffocating smoke, clouds of fire Shooed the birds of the
sky that fled screaming. They returned home yet! You no longer burn, Can not burn!

Loved you, baby, but never You shall hear the voice of love.

Of the heart forces the same tired children In the school of hard bench they sit, Longing for
freedom and play, But no one calls out more! They sit like sentries,
the forgotten, No one calls out more!

Child, he's gone now And with it all love and bliss of love, He whom you loved, how he taught
you To fly with wings in the heavens.

He whom you loved when he'd shown you The only airflow sensor in
place of the flooded city: He went from there, he who alone Opening
the door of your heart understand.

At one, I just want to ask you, beloved: "Oh, toss and turn, never the burden of hate on me!"
The weakest of all that is weak, is it not a human heart? How could it live under the gnawing
pain, That another is a pain enough?

O my beloved, will you kill me Since you did not strike dagger, buy no poison, no rope. Let me
know that you want, I entschwände From the Earth to bloom corridor, from the kingdom of life
- And fall into the grave I want.

You gave me the life of life. You gave me love. And you take back
your gift.

Oh, I know - But I do not give up hatred instead! I still do love life. Oh, remember! But
I know that burden of hate is killing me.

The young Countess

The young countess is sleeping until ten clock in the morning and want fresh bread every day on
have your breakfast table.

The young countess makes fine embroidery and read poems.

On Cooking and weaving, she does not understand himself.

The young countess is a spoiled child.

But she is happy and leaves her gaiety radiate to everything and everyone.

Man forgives her like the long morning sleep and fresh baked goods,
because it is wasteful in their Benefits to the poor and kind to everyone.

The

father of the young countess is a Swedish nobleman who all his life
in Italy used to have because the beautiful country and beautiful
of his daughters has him tied up there.

When Count Henrik Dohna traveled to Italy, he was hospitably received at the house of the nobleman
been, and had made acquaintance with the daughters and eventually one of these as Wife brought
home to Sweden.

She, who has always spoken Swedish and brought up is that she loves
everything that Swedish is located well up here in bear country.

She swings so happy in the dance and thus takes part in all the pleasures of love, the long
Löfsee orbit, we believe that should they have always lived above. But one thing she does not
quite - Countess to be. There is nothing stiff, no condescending dignity to this happy young woman.

Especially
the old men were delighted by the young countess. It was very strange what a stone they had with them
in the board. If they had met her at a ball, one could be sure that all of them, both the judge
of how the Munkerud Probst in Bro and Melchior Sinclaire and the
captain of Berga, their wives behind in the deepest Trust told that
if they met the young countess, thirty, forty years have - so -

"Yes,
it was then not yet" born, say the old women.

And next time, when they see the young countess, they tease her by saying that it robs them
of the hearts of their men.

The old women they look at a little worried. Think of the Countess Marta. The was just as happy
and well loved, when she first came to Borg, and was out of it a vain, pleasure-seeking become
coquette, now thought of nothing more than how to could have fun at best.

"If she had only one man who could continue to work," say the old women.

"If she understood only set up a loom," Because that's a comfort to all the grief, devours
all interests, is to save many a woman have been.

The young countess would like to be a capable housewife. She knows nothing better than to live
as a happy wife to a good home, in the large companies it is are often among the elderly.

"Henrik should be so glad that I was a capable housewife," she said. "Just as his own Mother.
Teaches weave me! "

As the old sighed deeply twice, once to Count Henry, who can believe that his Mother was a capable
housewife and then about the difficulties of this young, inexperienced
Initiate child in such complicated matters.

Were caught only on their technical terms and to name the different parts of the loom, so she
ran it all around in your head, let for if by "sty" and "goose eye" and "ticking" said.

No one who sees the young countess, can help but marvel at the fact that she has marry the stupid
Henrik can count.

The poorest, who are stupid! It's hard for them where they may be. But the worst It is for the person who
is stupid and lives in Wermland.

       

There have been many stories about Count Henrik stupidity in circulation, and yet he was only
Early twenties. It was said, how he once Anna Stjarnhok on a Sleigh ride had entertained.

"You're beautiful, Anna," he said.

"Oh, nonsense, Henrik!"

"You're the most beautiful in Wermland are!"

"No, I'm not."

"The most beautiful, are here on the sleigh ride you all."

"No, Henrik, I'm not."

"Yes, but the best thing here are the slides you, that you can not deny it!"

No, they could not, for Count Henrik is not beautiful, he is as ugly as he stupid. It is customary
to say of him, his head, sitting on his shoulders, had to Several hundred years passed in the family,
why is the brain at the last Inherit worn.

"The head has been with his father and his grandfather in use; where would otherwise have the
hair so thin, as pointed chin, the lips should be so bloodless? "

He is always surrounded by jesters, tempt him to say stupid things,
which they then redistribute in an improved edition.

A real chance for him is that he has nothing like this noted. He himself is solemn and dignified
in his whole appearance, he can not Imagine that others should not be the same. The dignity
he has gone in flesh and blood, it moves is measured, along stiff
never turns his head around without that is not the whole body turning.

But

the young Countess was quite fond of him, despite his old head. She did not so, as she looked
down there in Rome, he in his own country from such a martyr glory the stupidity is surrounded.
Down there had been something of the splendor of youth about him, and they had been united
under the most romantic circumstances with each other.

One had only young countess tell hear Count Henrik had kidnapped her. Monks and cardinals mad
about the fact that they leave the religion of their mother, where she had grown up, and convert
to Protestantism wanted. The whole mob was in an uproar, the palace of her father had been besieged.
Henrik was pursued by bandits, begged her mother and sisters them to give up this marriage. Her
father was furious that the Italian pack prohibit him wanted to give his daughter, whom he wanted.
He ordered to kidnap Henry Graf them.

And then, as it was impossible for her to be married at home, and they slipped by Henrik all
sorts of back alleys to the Swedish consulate. And after them there to their Catholic become a Protestant
faith and was renounced, they were immediately married and in a one few fiery horse-drawn
closed carriage sent north. "The squad was we have no time, you see a well, "used to say,
the young countess," and it was uncomfortable, be married at the consulate office, instead
of in one of our beautiful churches, but otherwise Henrik could not
get me.

Down there they are all hot-blooded a way as both Papa Mama and cardinals and monks, all of
them are easily excited.

Therefore, everything had so secretly going on, because if people
had seen us slip away, it would be all well Both have beaten to death,
just to save my soul.

Henrik they did so for a lost. "

But the young countess has her husband loved, even after their home in the quieter life have begun
to Borg. She loves him for the splendor of the old name and the famous ancestors. There she
is looking forward to see how their proximity softens his stiff nature to hear his voice soft when
he talks to her. And besides, he loved her and cuddled her, and she is now married to him even
once. The young countess can not change your mind To think that as a married woman must love her
husband.

In a way, he is also in their ideal of masculinity.

He is honest and truthful. He has never broken his pledged word.

She considers him a true gentleman.
* * * * *

On the eighth March celebrates the magistrate Scharling
his birthday, and because it is full of guests, all the hills Broby
hinanziehen. They come from east and west, known and unknown, Requested
and uninvited guests! And they are all welcome. There are enough food
and drink for all, and in the dance hall is room for all the dance-happy
from seven dioceses.

The young countess was coming too. It provides
in anywhere where you expect dancing and merriment can.

But it is
not as cheerful as usual, it is as if she had any idea that now the
series to them is to be carried away by the wild tales from the hunt
with.

She has sat on the road and looks at the setting sun. It fell
from a sky down, where they left no gold stripes on light clouds.
Bleach gray twilight with hunting, cold gusts of wind hung over the
area. The young countess looked like day and night fought with each
other and how all living in this strife of the mighty of terror was
taken. The horses raced with the last load of meaning, soon to come
under cover. The wood-cutters rushed home from the forest, the girls
left the farm buildings. In the forest thicket howled the wild animals.
The day of human pleasure and delight, was overcome.

The colors disappeared,
the lights went out. Cold and ugliness wherever they looked. Also
what they had hoped, loved and worked cloaked themselves in her mind's
eye in the Gray of dawn. It was for them as for the whole of nature,
the moment of fatigue, defeat, of powerlessness. She thought that
her own heart, which is now in the bubbling joy of existence wrapped
in gold and purple that this revelation to heart, perhaps even his
power, their world, would lose.

"Oh, fainting, weakness of my own
heart," she said to herself. "You're suffocating gray dawn, you will
be once in my soul Lord! As I will Life seeing ugly and gray as it
may, since my hair is gray, my back cringe, paralyzed my brain. "

At
the same moment the carriage turned into the court of the district
administrator, and when the young Countess looked up, her eyes fell
on a barred window in a side building, and beyond she saw a face with
a few angry eyes.

This face was one of the major's wife Ekeby, and
felt the young woman that it is now with her Joy for this evening
was over. It may well be happy, if not the grief sees and hears him
mention only as something completely removed. It is more difficult,
the joy of to keep heart when one faces the bitter need of face to
face.

The Countess knows well that the magistrate has the major's
wife and that they can be locked because of the Violence should be
sued, they perpetrated in the night when the big ball Ekeby took place.
But she has not thought that they where in the farm of the president's
Verwahrsam is held so close to the ballroom, that one can look from
there to her room, so close that they must listen to dance music and
the merry noise. And the thought of it robs the Countess all joy.

Probably
dancing the waltz and quadrille Countess, she walks in the minuets
and the Anglaise meaning between every dance but they must creep to
the window and look across to the side building. There's light in
the window of the major's wife, she can in the room and go down to
see. It looks like they never rest, as they wander constantly, without
rest. But after each Time the Countess has also looked to move their
feet to dance in the cumbersome and the laughter gets stuck in her
throat.

The wife of the president's remarks that it dries the dew
from the windows to look out for can and does get at them.

"Oh, what
a pity, what a misery," she whispered to the Countess.

"I find it
almost impossible tonight," to dance gives her the Countess whispered
back.

"It's not my fault that we give a ball while it is sitting
there," replied Mrs. Scharling. She sat through all this time in Karlstad
in prison, but now I the matter to court, and therefore it has been
done here today. We were able to can not sit in the miserable prison
cell, so we have over there in the weaving accommodated. She would
have stayed in my room, my lady, if not all of these people would
have come straight here today. The Countess, they have hardly known,
but all of us it is as it were a mother and queen was. What they must
think only of us who dance here, while it is in such distress? It
was fortunate that most do not Suspecting that it sits there. "

"You
should not have" never be arrested, the Countess says sternly.

"No,
that's a true word, ma'am, but there was nothing to be on then, if
not even greater disaster to happen. But now it burns, the grace, to have her
on a bed of velvet and silk!

Whether they are in agony overcomes whether it is running from one room to another? Oh, what will
flame, the green silk, how will play the Flames in the thick hair! Take courage, her Flames!
Take courage! Fanget it, lights it, verbrennet the witch! Do not be afraid before her magic
words, her gluten! Let them burn!

There are people who for their sake her life had to burn!

Bells were ringing, rattling cars, spraying came thither, water buckets
from the lake were served up, bring people from all villages stormed.

There was a screaming and wailing and Command; roofs fell down, there was a terrible crackling
and roaring of flames.

Nothing but Kevenhiiller brought out its version, and he sat on the
Haublock and rubbed his Hands.

Then he heard a crash, as if the sky fell down and he jumped up joyfully. "Now is it done, "he
exclaimed. can "Now they can not escape, now it is under the beams crushed or consumed by the
flames.

Now it is finished! "

And he thought of Ekeby honor and power, which had to be sacrificed
to get them out of the world .

Create The majestic halls, where so much joy and happiness had lived,
the rooms that echoed had the pleasure of women, the tables that had
bent almost to delicious Courts, the precious old furniture, silver
and porcelain, which are never obtained again could ...

And then
he went with a cry in the air.

His wheel of fire, its sun, the model of it all depended, he had
not placed under the stairs, so that it may cause fire should?

Kevenhiiller looked at himself, petrified with terror.

"Am I mad?" He said. "How could I do such a thing?"
At the same moment did the locked door to the garage and the Green-Clad
entered.

Since the Grace stood in the doorway, gentle and smiling.
Her green dress had no spot nor blemish, not a burning smell clung
to her thick hair. She was so, as he in the days seen his youth in
the marketplace to Karlstad, had dragged its tail between their feet,
and led all the wild and the scent of the forest with it. All the soft feelings that unite the people seem be dead in his
heart to. The madness extends his claws to the unfortunate from, but as you come into your omnipotent,
you shrunken patron saint of life, and the Heart with flowers and greens as the staff of the saints.

No
one can be less than the pastor of Broby, no one can be evil and
More ruthlessness of the people are separated.

His offices are all winter unheated, he sits on an unpainted wooden bench, he is dressed in
rags, living of dry bread and is furious when a beggar comes across his threshold. He leaves
the Hungry horse in the stable and sold the hay, the dry grass for his cows eat away from the
road edge and the moss on the wall of the house, up on the road also can be the bleating of
hungry sheep hear. The peasants throw out the food that will not eat their dogs do and the clothes
spurn their arms.

His hand is stretched out to beg, his back curved, to give thanks.

He begs borrows from the rich and the poor. If he sees a coined piece of money, he burns the
heart impatience in the body until it is in his pocket. Woe to the day of decline does not correspond
to can pay!

He married late, and it would have been better if he had never done. Careworn and strained his wife
died. His daughter is now at strangers. He is old, but age brings him no peace. The madness of
avarice never leaves him.

But one fine day to early August is a ponderous coach of four horses drawn, ascended the hill
Broby. A fine old lady goes in full gala with driver and servants, and maid before. She comes
to visit the priest in Broby.

It has it loved in her younger days.

While he was her father's tutor in the house, they loved each other,
but the proud family separated them.

And now she comes hinangefahren Broby the hill to see him before she dies. Anything that can
offer her life, is a reunion with her lover of her youth.

The small, delicate young lady sitting in the car and dreams. It does not move quickly up the
hill Broby for a small, poor parsonage. She is on her way to the cool, dense foliage down in
the park, where her lover is waiting.

She sees him, he is young, he can kiss, he can . Love Now that she knows she will see him, his
image increases with rare clarity before her. How beautiful it is! He can rave, glow, he can, he met
all their Creature with the fire of delight.

Now she is pale yellow, withered and old.

He knows it might not again, sixty years old as it is, but it does not come to be seen, but to
see to her lover to see their youth, the ravages of time has not
affected the still young, beautiful, heart warm.

She comes from so far away that they never heard of the priest to Broby.

And then the coach rattles ascended the hill, and now the rectory
is on the peak visible.

"For God's sake, laments" a beggar by the wayside, "give the poor
man a shilling.

"

The lady gives him a silver coin and asks if the Broby Rectory is
close.

The beggar looks at her with a sly, sharp look. "The vicarage there," says he, "but the minister
is not at home, there is nobody at home there."

The fine, little
lady looks like she should be faint. The cool foliage disappears the
beloved is not there. How could she believe that she, after forty
years of waiting would find there?

"What the young lady out to the
parsonage?"

The young lady had come to visit the priest. She had
him in the past known.

Forty years and forty miles are located between
them. And with each mile that they completed, it has shaken off a
year with the expense, worry and memories, that now, where she reached
the parsonage, again became the twenty-year girl , without worry,
without memories. O of pride! - The provision of all created things? No one knows his own determination, He staggers
even leave in the darkness and arrogate to themselves, their rank and the nature of their Purpose
to assign. - Allen was being an equal citizen rights bestowed, and the degenerate human breaking
his chain of Erschaffnen to enjoy instead of enjoying everything, but he struggles in the
eternal struggle with death, and his fate, all his powers to fight the restless Time is one
hour and one minute to beg for another, - to fear in this, to argue with this in mind, the resolution
is far beyond him.

Abdallah.

If pleasure is the highest ultimate purpose of our existence, which is then man distinguished
from the brute?

Omar. And why the difference? The man would be happy if he never aspired higher, the Nature
embraced him then with her loving arms, he entertained and played with him as her child -
but the pride has losgeschworen by his mother, sees the stars, hanging over his head, climbs a steep
cliff and shouted to them: I am close to you!

Smiling sadly the stars look down on him and he is now lost on dizzying firing; the flowering
meadow, which he disdained until he has lost the way back. -

Abdallah.

And nothing contemptuous arrogance than this man had in front of the beasts of the Forest forward?

Omar.
Nothing but him. With contempt foot, he pushes the earth and wants to the Deity crowd, but his
pathetic nature draws him back omnipotent. His wisdom, virtue, with which he prides himself, - cloud
shadows chasing the wind across the plain and those of the Insane
nachtaumelt.

Abdallah. Virtue, Omar, just a shadow? - The vicious and Noble circumstances
here in a Series?

The two ends, size and contempt Schlaenger, together? From a seed
sprouting of the hemlock and the healing plant? - Impossible! -

Omar. He was no friend of Abdallah's, but one of the pleasant Shareholders
to whom the young man joins them back so easily and just as easily loses. He was overseer
of the gardens of the Sultan and was now "to Abdullah to consolation Looking for it was usually
dark and verdrüßlich. Abdallah it was friendly contrary. "Welcome, he said, as he shook hands
with him happy, I've not long . Saw - He was glad that someone snatched him from his reverie, he
is fond of and threw off the goodwill left. - Welcome! he cried again.

Rashid was sad, his face was pale and haggard his eye. A severe suffering His soul seemed to
press, a deep melancholy incorruptible saw from his black deep-set eyes, nothing could a joy
to throw on his face, his voice was slow and without fire. -

Your sight is getting worse, "continued Abdallah.

Rashid.

Sicker? - Really? - Maybe I'll go to the death against.

Abdallah. Death? -

Rashid. I hope 'it.

Abdallah. You hope?

Rashid.

My mind can bear the pain no longer, the towers are always higher.

Abdallah. Your love, Rashid will take you down in your grave. -
Be cheerful, bye your grief and will return the flourishing youth,
who you were. - The love is so, how they say, and let rise in paradise
rock you -

Rashid. O happy that you speak of it as an unknown land.
- But no; you are unhappy. - A being without love, - a lute without
strings. - For the most divine Sensations of crawling dead feeling
lots in the dust when the lover of the brilliant Fittig Rothe weighs
in the morning. -

Abdallah. And yet you call yourself miserable.
-

Rashid. ... said Phil Evans, but where?

- There, where Robur can verproviantiren fresh, answered Uncle Prudent.

- That should any be a lost island in the Pacific, with one of her boss throughout worthy colony
of criminals.

- This is also my opinion, Phil Evans. I truly believe he will turn to the west leave, and the speed
at his disposal, he should reach its destination soon enough have.

-
However, we would not be able to bring our plan to run ... if there
depends ...

- He will not arrive, Phil Evans!

It turned out that the two colleagues of the engineer's intentions were at least partly . Guess
In the course of the day waned any doubt that the "Albatros", calling
on the Boundaries of the southern Arctic Ocean striped decided again
headed backwards.

If the ice on the water to Cape Horn drifting, had to be southern
Parts of the Pacific the ocean covered entirely with ice fields and
icebergs and pack ice formed Then an impenetrable barrier for the
tightest ships, as most daring of travelers.

Certainly the "Albatross" would be if he quickened his wings, on the Ocean piled on icebergs can fly
well, such as those on the mainland of the Arctic Circle towering mountains - if there is
ever a continent, which covers the southern end of the earth's axis.

But decided he would not have dared, in the midst of the dark polar night and a Polar Air
to offer Despite what can sometimes cool to 60 degrees below zero.

So after he penetrated about a hundred kilometers to the south, turned the "Albatros" to the
west, as if he the direction of an uncharted island in the archipelago of the Pacific Oceans einschlüge.

Below
him spread the liquid level, which between the countries of America and mass Asia is thrown. Now
the tide had adopted the same that peculiar color, have acquired in part to the name of the
Ocean "milk sea". In the dim light, which the dull sun rays penetrated never really seemed
the whole surface of the Silent world really knows milky sea. One would have to see a vast snow
field believed, would not recognize the land subsidence and surveys from this height. Would also
this whole part by the cold sea to form a single ice rink frozen
have been the Sight of it could hardly have been different.

Now we know that it myriad glowing particles, are phosphorescent bodies,
which produce this phenomenon.

Strange was only the fact that opalescent masses outside to meet the Indian Ocean.

Once the barometer was held in the first hours of the day quite high, fell He is just so fast,
a sign that was for each ship of grave importance would, during the Aeronef it could be ignored.
In any case, let the same thing to recognize, however, In recent
time a terrible storm, the waters stirred up the Pacific Ocean have
liked.

It was against two clock approached noon, as Tom Turner, the engineer.

"Master Robur, he began to see you as the black dot on the horizon?
... There, just in North of us ... a rock can not be?

- No, to Tom,
on this side is not a country.

- Then there must be a ship, or at
any vehicle ". June in the southern winter and have
increased, but still noticeably shorter was because the "albatross" for the one Curs Polar
regions einhielt.

The result was a very low brightness of that part of the Pacific,
the adjacent to the Antarctic Ocean. 

Hearing Captain Lennart, they laughed, he drove a beat on her and she wanted to. They ran and
jumped on her car. He afterwards, but stumbled in his haste it over a stone and fell. He got up
again, they are not pursued further, however. Finally Stratonicus was so happy to discover that his lover
actuality an Athenian citizen was, indeed, the daughter of a poor but righteous man, who in the
wars Pelopponesischen his life in a glorious way had lost.
