     "The action was at no time very warm, but it was durable, and our
     troops by the gallant exertions of our officers, were rallied
     frequently, but always fought at long shot. "What you need to strengthen your body.What
do you have need for your body, you will find over there in that room. "He pointed to a door
on the other side of the corridor, then he left me.

My hand touched the lock specified by the preacher.

reinforce The loss was nearly equal on both sides, if we
     do not consider the loss of opportunity. We lost about 130 killed
     and wounded, and from every account the enemy were not more lucky.

     "The cavalry, the light infantry, and the guards, acquired all the
     honor, and the infantry of the battalions all the disgrace that
     fell upon our shoulders. The cavalry, led on by Washington, behaved
     in a manner truly heroic. He charged the British army in the rear,
     took a great number of prisoners, sent many of them off with small
     detachments, and when he saw we were turning our backs upon victory
     in front, by a circuitous manoeuvre, he threw his dragoons into
     our rear, passed the line and charged the York volunteers, (a fine
     corps of cavalry,) killed a number and drove the rest out of the
     field. Washington is an elegant officer; his reputation is
     deservedly great. Many of our officers are mortally mortified at
     our late inglorious retreat. I say mortally, because I cannot doubt
     that some of us must fall, in endeavoring the next opportunity, to
     re-establish our reputation. Dear Reputation, what trouble do you
     not occasion, what danger do you not expose us to! Who but for it,
     would patiently persevere in prosecuting a war, with the mere
     remnant of a fugitive army, in a country made desolate by repeated
     ravages, and rendered sterile by streams of blood. Who but for
     reputation would sustain the varied evils that daily attend the
     life of a soldier, and expose him to jeopardy every hour. Liberty,
     thou basis of reputation, suffer me not to forget the cause of my
     country, nor to murmur at my fate."

The events of this campaign being active, and following in quick succession, we have an account
of the siege of Ninety-six, a very important post. The fortunes of the war had turned generally
in favor of the Americans, although their troops were several times defeated in this campaign. 

There was a large, nearly empty chamber, probably intended for the Confirmandenunterricht, weissgetuenchten
with bare walls, the windows looked out over desolate fields to the distant beach. aufgebahret
middle of the room but stood a white stock. On the pillow lay a pale child faces, the eyes,
the little teeth gleamed like pearls from the pale lips.

I fell on my child's funeral and said a fervent prayer. Then I prepared everything as it was
necessary to work, and then I painted - quick, how to paint the dead, the show not for the
second twinkling face. Sometimes I was aufgeschrecket as by the ongoing big silence, but when I stopped
and listened, I soon realized there was nothing there before. Once, too, was silent as to push
for Odemzuege my ears .-- I went to the bed of the dead, but I niederbeugete me to the pale Muench,
touched only the Todeskaelte my cheeks.

I saw around me, it was a door in the room, they might lead to a bedroom, perhaps, was that it
came from there! But so hot I listened, I heard nothing back, and my own mind, had probably
driven a game with me.

So I Sit me because again, saw the little corpse and Malet further, and as I looked at the empty
hands, as they lay on the linen, so I thought: 'A small gift but you have to give your child! " And
I Malete him on his portrait, a white water lily in his hand as if it had fallen asleep playing
with it. Such kind of flower it was rare in the region here, and liked
it so be a erwuenschet In binding.

Finally drove me from the hunger for work, my tired body required strengthening. Lay had THEREFORE away the brush
and the pallet and went down the hall to the room, so I instructed the preacher. As I entered, however, I would
be back soon with surprise given way, for me, Catherine stood opposite,
but in black mourning clothes, but like in all the magical glow, look
so good luck and love in a woman's face.

Oh, I knew it all too soon, what I saw here was only her portrait, which I myself once gemalet.
Also, for this was no longer room in her father's house have been .--
But where she herself was that? Had they taken away, or did they also
caught here - long, long time I even saw in the portrait;? The old
time rose up and torments my heart. But Lord Rawdon had received a strong
     reinforcement, and by making forced marches, arrived in time to
     avert the impending fate of the garrison. I cannot ascertain the
     loss the enemy may have sustained, but judging by our own, it
     cannot be inconsiderable. Our approaches were carried by two
     trenches and a mine to within a few feet of the ditch of their
     strongest fort, and our troops once took possession of it, but
     their works were too strong to be escaladed. Instances of
     consummate bravery were exhibited, but their fire was too fatal for
     our people to remain in their fosse, and we were obliged to leave
     it with loss."

But the most important battle, and the last of consequence, was that of Eutaw. It was by no
means as decisive as that of Cowpens, but it was instrumental in putting an end to the war. The strong side of the head and eyes turn to the right in other forward-looking figure in well
with the assumption that there is something seen, which suddenly attracts the attention of the
rest up. Of the ground detached foot can hardly be a different interpretation than the one
preparing to spring up [8], and the very strange attitude of the panels, which are somewhat
sacrosanct, and not as an arbitrary attribute must somehow be accommodated in the room, finds its good
education, assuming they slipped due to the excitation of the wearer down and would then fall
to the ground. So we knew then, that is the statue of Moses, a certain significant moment in the
life of the man, and would fail to recognize not in danger, this
moment.

  [8] Although the left foot of the quietly seated in the Giuliano
  Medici Chapel is raised similar.

But two observations of Thode wrest from us again what we already believed to possess. This
observer says he can not see the panels slide down, but remain "fixed." He notes "the quiet
steadfastness of the right hand on the boards propped up." If we look towards itself, we have
to give without reserve Thode right. The panels are locked and not to slip into danger. The
right hand supports it is based or to them. Thus their inventory, although not explained, but
it is useless for the interpretation of Justi and others.

A second remark is even more crucial. Thode reminds them that "this statue was intended as one
of six men and that she is shown seated. Both contradict the assumption that Michelangelo want
to fix a particular historical moment. For what regards the first, so shut the task of giving
each other seated figures as types of human being (Vita activa! Vita contemplative!), The notion
of individual historical events. And regarding the second contradicts the view of the sitting,
which was due to the whole artistic conception of the monument, the
character of that process, "namely, the descent from Mount Sinai to the
camp.

Let us know Thode's own concerns, I think we are still able to increase
his strength. The Moses was hung with five (in a later draft three)
other statues of the pedestal of the grave monument. His next equivalent
of a Paul should have been. Therefore the General ordered us to march by the right, and we passed the rivers above,
which induced the British army to retire to Eutaw Springs, about thirty-five miles from Thompson's
and about two from Nelson's Ferry over the Santee. Gen. Greene did not approve of their holding
that post, and as his forces were now collected, he determined to prosecute his plan of giving
battle or removing them to a more peaceful distance. By easy marches we arrived at Burdell's,
seven miles from Eutaw, in the afternoon of the 7th inst., and orders were given for marching
again next morning, at four o'clock, to attack the enemy.

"At four o'clock next morning we were under arms, and moved in order of battle about three
miles, when we halted, and took a little of that liquid which is not unnecessary to exhilarate
the animal spirits upon such occasions. Again we advanced, and soon afterwards our light troops
met the van of the enemy, who were marching out to meet us.

"Very serious, very important reflections began to obtrude. But liberty or death; peace and
independence; or glory and a grave. The enemy's van was soon driven to their line, and our
troops displayed. Our militia, which composed the front line, seconded the attack, and behaved
better than usual. The North Carolina brigade of Continentals were next engaged, and acquired
honor by their firmness. The Virginians advanced with impetuosity, and beat their foes wherever
they found them. And the little remnant of Maryland troops, with an intrepidity which was particularly
noticed by our gallant commander, advanced in good order, with trailed arms, and without regarding
or returning the enemy's fire, charged and broke their best troops. Then, indeed, we fired
and followed them into their camp, near which is a thick wood, very unfavorable to cavalry. The impatient hand reaches forward into the beard and with a turn of the head, the
beard is pressed into an iron grip between thumb and palm; combining with the fingers, a gesture
of a force and vehemence that to others may recall images of Michelangelo. But then, we do not yet
know how or why, the sunken hand retreats hastily and releases the beard. Fingers become loose
from tangled wiry hair, but they are buried so deep that after their withdrawal from the
powerful beard, they drag under the pressure of the release. The longest and topmost finger
lingers, overlapping the lichen-like beard.
 We see two rectangular
panels placed together on their sides. Observing closer we see that the edges are cut differently.
The upper edge is cut at an angle.
 At this critical juncture the enemy made a conclusive
effort, which not only did them great honor, but, in my opinion, was the salvation of their
whole army. Major Majoribanks sallied briskly from behind a picket garden, charged our artillery,
and carried the pieces, which they immediately secured under the walls of their citadel.

