"Yes!" I said, "that's just it.  That's what I've bin axin myself during the entire evenin.
What is this grate meetin drivin at? What's all the grate Finian meetins drivin at all over
the country?

"My Irish frens, you know me well enuff to know that I didn't come here to disturb this meetin.
Nobody but a loafer will disturb any kind of a meetin.  And if you'll notice it, them as are
up to this sort of thing, allers come to a bad end.  There was a young man--I will not mention
his name--who disturb'd my show in a certain town, two years ago, by makin remarks disrespectful
of my animals, accompanied by a allosan to the front part of my hed, which, as you see, it
is Bald--sayin,-- says this young man, 'You sandpaper it too much, but you've got a beautiful
head of hair in the back of your neck, old man.'  This made a few ignent and low-mindid persons
larf; but what was the fate of that young man?  In less than a month his aunt died and left
him a farm in Oxford county, Maine!  The human mind can pictur no grater misfortun than this.

"No, my Irish frens, I am here as your naber and fren.  I know YOU are honest in this Finian
matter.

"But let us look at them Head Centers.  Let us look at them rip-roarin orators in New York,
who've bin tearin round for up'ards a year, swearin Ireland shall be free.

"There's two parties--O'McMahoneys and McO'Roberts.  One thinks the best way is to go over
to Canady and establish a Irish Republic there, kindly permittin the Canadians to pay the expenses
of that sweet Boon; and the other wants to sail direck for Dublin Bay, where young McRoy and
his fair young bride went down and was drownded, accordin to a ballad I onct heard.  But there's
one pint on which both sides agree--that's the Funs.  They're willin, them chaps in New York,
to receive all the Funs you'll send 'em.  You send a puss tonight to Mahony, and another puss
to Roberts.  Both will receive 'em.  You bet.  And with other pusses it will be sim'lar.

"I went into Mr. Delmonico's eatin-house the other night, and I saw my fren Mr. Terence McFadden,
who is a elekent and enterprisin deputy Centre.  He was sittin at a table, eatin a canvas-back
duck. Poultry of that kind, as you know, is rather high just now.  I think about five dollars
per Poult.  And a bottle of green seal stood before him.

"'How are you, Mr. McFadden?' I said.

"'Oh, Mr. Ward!  I am miserable--miserable!  The wrongs we Irishmen suffers!  Oh, Ireland!
Will a troo history of your sufferins ever be written?  Must we be ever ground under by the
iron heel of despotic Briton?  But, Mr. Ward, won't you eat suthin?'

"'Well,' I said 'if there's another caanvas-back and a spare bottle of that green seal in the
house, I wouldn't mind jinin you in bein ground under by Briton's iron heel.'

"'Green turtle soup, first?' he said.

"'Well, yes.  If I'm to share the wrongs of Ireland with you, I don't care if I do have a bowl
of soup.  Put a bean into it,' I said to the waiter.  'It will remind me of my childhood days,
when we had 'em baked in conjunction with pork every Sunday mornin, and then all went up to
the village church, and had a refreshin nap in the fam'ly pew.'

"Mr. McFadden, who was sufferin so thurily for Ireland, was of the Mahony wing.  I've no doubt
that some ekally patriotic member of the Roberts wing was sufferin in the same way over to
the Mason-Dory eatin-house.

"They say, feller-citizens, soon you will see a Blow struck for Irish liberty!  We hain't seen
nothin BUT a Blow, so far--it's bin all blow, and the blowers in New York won't git out of
Bellusses as long as our Irish frens in the rooral districks send 'em money.

"Let the Green float above the red, if that'll make it feel any better, but don't you be the
Green.  Don't never go into anything till you know whereabouts you're goin to.

"This is a very good country here where you are.  You Irish hav enjoyed our boons, held your
share in our offices, and you certainly have done your share of our votin.  Then why this hulla-balloo
about freein Ireland?  You do your frens in Ireland a great injoory, too; because they b'lieve
you're comin sure enuff, and they fly off the handle and git into jail.  My Irish frens, ponder
these things a little.  'Zamine 'em closely, and above all find out where the pusses go to."

I sot down.  There was no applaws, but they listened to me kindly. They know'd I was honest,
however wrong I might be; and they know'd too, that there was no peple on arth whose generosity
and gallantry I had a higher respect for than the Irish, excep when they fly off the handle.
So, my feller citizens, let me toot my horn.

But Squire Thaxter put his hand onto my hed and said, in a mournful tone of vois, "Mr. Ward,
your mind is failin.  Your intellect totters!  You are only about sixty years of age, yet you
will soon be a drivelin dotard, and hav no control over yourself."

"I have no control over my arms now," I replied, drivin my elbows suddenly into the Squire's
stomack, which caused that corpulent magistrate to fall vilently off the stage into the fiddlers'
box, where he stuck his vener'ble hed into a base drum, and stated "Murder" twice, in a very
loud vois.

It was late when I got home.  The children and my wife was all abed. But a candle--a candle
made from taller of our own raisin--gleamed in Betsy's room; it gleamed for I!  All was still.
The sweet silver moon was a shinin bright, and the beautiful stars was up to their usual doins!
I felt a sentymental mood so gently ore me stealin, and I pawsed before Betsy's window, and
sung, in a kind of op'ratic vois, as follers, impromtoo, to wit:

            Wake, Bessy, wake,
              My sweet galoot!
            Rise up, fair lady,
              While I touch my lute!

The winder--I regret to say that the winder went up with a vi'lent crash, and a form robed
in spotless white exclaimed, "Cum into the house, you old fool.  To-morrer you'll be goin round
complainin about your liver!"

I sot up a spell by the kitchen fire readin Lewis Napoleon's "Life of Julius Caesar."  What
a reckless old cuss he was!  Yit Lewis picturs him in glowin cullers.  Caesar made it lively
for the boys in Gaul, didn't he?  He slewd one million of citizens, male and female--Gauls
and Gaulusses--and then he sold another million of 'em into slavery.  He continnered this cheerful
stile of thing for sum time, when one day he was 'sassinated in Rome by sum high-toned Roman
gen'lmen, led on by Mr. Brutus.  When old Bruty inserted his knife into him, Caesar admitted
that he was gone up.  His funeral was a great success, the house bein crowded to its utmost
capacity. Ten minutes after the doors were opened, the Ushers had to put up cards on which
was prntd, "Standin Room Only."

I went to bed at last.  "And so," I said, "thou hast no ear for sweet melody?"

A silvery snore was my only answer.

BETSY SLEPT.

                                               Artemus Ward.

7.6.  ARTEMUS WARD IN WASHINGTON.

[The following paper was contributed by Mr. Browne to "Vanity Fair," the New York "Punch,"
which terminated its career during the late war.  Some of the allusions are, of course, to
matters long past; but the old fun and genuine humour of the showman are as enjoyable now as
when first written.]

                                   Washington, April 17, 1863.

My wife stood before the lookin-glass, a fussin up her hair.

"What you doin, Betsy?" I inquired.

"Doin up my back hair," she replied.

"Betsy," said I, with a stern air, "Betsy, you're too old to think about such frivolities as
back hair."

"Too old? TOO OLD?" she screamed, "too old, you bald-heded idiot! You ain't got hair enuff
onto YOUR hed to make a decent wig for a single-brested grasshopper!"

The Rebook was severe, but merited.  Hens4th I shall let my wife's back hair alone.  You heard me!

My little dawter is growin quite rapid, and begins to scrootinize clothin, with young men inside
of it, puthy clost.  I obsarve, too, that she twists pieces of paper round her hair at nights,
and won't let me put my arms round her any more for fair I'll muss her.  "Your mother wasn't
'fraid I'd muss HER when she was your age, my child," sed I one day, with a sly twinkle into
my dark bay eye.

"No," replied my little dawter, "she probly liked it."

You ain't going to fool female Young America much.  You may gamble on THAT.

But all this, which happened in Baldinsville a week ago, hain't nothin to do with Washington,
from whither I now write you, hopin the iterms I hereby sends will be exceptable to the Gin-Cocktail
of America--I mean the "Punch" thereof.  [A mild wittikism.--A.W.]

Washington, D.C., is the Capital of "our once happy country"--if I may be allowed to koin a
frase!  The D.C. stands for Desprit Cusses, a numerosity which abounds here, the most of whom
persess a Romantic pashun for gratooitous drinks.  And in this conjunction I will relate an
incident.  I notist for several days a large Hearse standin in front of the principal tavern
on Pennsylvany Avenoo. "Can you tell me, my fair Castillian," sed I this mornin, to a young
Spaniard from Tipperary, who was blackin boots in the washroom--"can you tell me what those
Hearse is kept standin out there for?"

"Well, you see our Bar bisness is great.  You've no idee of the number of People who drink
at our Bar durin a day.  You see those Hearse is necessary."

I SAW.

Standin in front of the tarvuns of Pennsylvany Avenoo is a lot of miserbul wretches,--black,
white and ring-strickid, and freckled-- with long whips in their hands, who frowns upon you
like the wulture upon the turtle-dove the minit you dismerge from hotel.  They own yonder four-wheeled
startlin curiositys, which were used years and years ago by the fust settlers of Virginny to
carry live hogs to market in.  The best carriage I saw in the entire collection was used by
Pockyhontas, sum two hundred years ago, as a goat-pen. Becumin so used up that it couldn't
hold goats, that fair and gentle savage put it up at auction.  Subsekently it was used as a
hospital for sick calves, then as a hencoop, and finally it was put on wheels and is now doin
duty as a hack.

I called on Secretary Welles, of the Navy.  You know he is quite a mariner himself, havin once
owned a Raft of logs on the Connethycut river.  So I put on saler stile and hollered:  "Ahoy,
shipmet!  Tip us yer grapplin irons!"

"Yes, yes!" he sed, nervously, "but mercy on us, don't be so noisy."

"Ay, ay, my heart!  But let me sing about how Jack Stokes lost his gal:--

          'The reason why he couldn't gain her,
           Was becoz he's drunken saler!'

"That's very good, indeed," said the Secky, "but this is hardly the place to sing songs in,
my frend."

"Let me write the songs of a nashun," sed I, "and I don't care a cuss who goes to the legislater!
But I ax your pardon--how's things?"

"Comfortable, I thank you.  I have here," he added, "a copy of the Middletown "Weekly Clarion"
of February the 15, containin a report that there isn't much Union sentiment in South Caroliny,
but I hardly credit it."

"Air you well, Mr. Secky," sed I. "Is your liver all right?  How's your koff?"

"God bless me!" sed the Secky, risin hastily and glarin wildly at me, "what do you mean?"

"Oh, nothin partickler.  Only it is one of the beauties of a Republican form of gov'ment that
a Cabnet offisser can pack up his trunk and go home whenever he's sick.  Sure nothin don't
ail your liver?" sed I, pokin him putty vilent in the stummick.

I called on Abe.  He received me kindly.  I handed him my umbreller, and told him I'd have
a check for it if he pleased.  "That," sed he, "puts me in mind of a little story.  There was
a man, out in our parts who was so mean that he took his wife's coffin out of the back winder
for fear he would rub the paint off the doorway.  Wall, about this time there was a man in
a adjacent town who had a green cotton umbreller."

"Did it fit him well?  Was it custom made?  Was he measured for it?"

"Measured for what?" said Abe.

"The umbreller?"

"Wall, as I was sayin," continnered the President, treatin the interruption with apparent comtempt,
"this man sed he'd known that there umbreller ever since it was a pyrasol.  Ha, ha, ha!"

"Yes," said I, larfin in a respectful manner, "but what has this man with the umbreller to
do with the man who took his wife's coffin out of the back winder?"

"To be sure," said Abe--"what was it?  I must have got two stories mixed together, which puts
me in mind of another lit--"

"Never mind, Your Excellency.  I called to congratulate you on your career, which has been
a honest and a good one--unscared and unmoved by Secesh in front of you and Abbolish at the
back of you--each one of which is a little wuss than the other if possible!

"Tell E. Stanton that his boldness, honesty, and vigger merits all praise, but to keep his
under-garments on.  E. Stanton has appeerently only one weakness, which it is, he can't allus
keep his under-garments from flyin up over his hed.  I mean that he occasionally dances in
a peck-measure, and he don't look graceful at it."

I took my departer.  "Good-bye, old sweetness!" sed Abe, shakin me cordgully by the hand.

"Adoo, my Prahayrie flower!" I replied, and made my exit. "Twenty-five thousand dollars a year
and found," I soliloquized, as I walked down the street, "is putty good wages for a man with
a modist appytite, but I reckon that it is wuth it to run the White House."

"What you bowt, sah?  What the debble you doin, sah?"

It was the voice of an Afrikin Brother which thus spoke to me. There was a cullud procession
before me which was escortin a elderly bald-hedded Afrikin to his home in Bates Alley.  This
distinguished Afrikin Brother had just returned from Lybery, and in turnin a corner puty suddent
I hed stumbled and placed my hed agin his stummick in a rather strengthy manner.

"Do you wish to impede the progress of this procession, sah?"

"Certainly not, by all means!  Procesh!"

And they went on.

I'm reconstructing my show.  I've bo't a collection of life size wax figgers of our prominent
Revolutionary forefathers.  I bo't 'em at auction, and got 'em cheap.  They stand me about
two dollars and fifty cents (2 dols. 50 cents) per Revolutionary forefather.

Ever as always yours,

                                                    A. WARD.

7.7.  SCENES OUTSIDE THE FAIR GROUNDS.

There is some fun outside the Fair Ground.  Any number of mountebanks have pitched their tents
there, and are exhibiting all sorts of monstrosities to large and enthusiastic audiences. 
There are some eloquent men among the showmen.  Some of them are Demosthenic.  We looked around
among them during the last day we honored the Fair with our brilliant presence, and were rather
pleased at some things we heard and witnessed.

The man with the fat woman and the little woman and the little man was there.

"'Ere's a show, now," said he, "worth seeing.  'Ere's a entertainment that improves the morals.
P.T. Barnum--you've all hearn o' him.  What did he say to me?  Sez he to me, sez P.T. Barnum,
'Sir, you have the all-firedest best show travelin!'--and all to be seen for the small sum
of fifteen cents!"

The man with the blue hog was there.  Says he, "Gentle-MEN, this beast can't turn round in
a crockery crate ten feet square, and is of a bright indigo blue.  Over five hundred persons
have seen this wonderful BEING this mornin, and they said as they come out, 'What can these
'ere things be?  Is it alive?  Doth it breathe and have a being?  Ah yes,' they say, 'it is
true, and we have saw a entertainment as we never saw afore.  'Tis nature's [only fifteen cents--'ere's
your change, sir] own sublime hand-works'--and walk right in."

The man with the wild mare was there.

"Now, then, my friends, is your time to see the gerratist queeriosity in the livin' world--a
wild mare without no hair-- captered on the roarin wild prahayries of the far distant West
by sixteen Injuns.  Don't fail to see this gerrate exhibition.  Only fifteen cents.  Don't
go hum without seein the State Fair, an' you won't see the State Fair without you see my show.
Gerratist exhibition in the known world, an' all for the small sum of fifteen cents."

Two gentlemen connected with the press here walked up and asked the showman, in a still small
voice, if he extended the usual courtesies to editors.  He said he did, and requested them
to go in.  While they were in some sly dog told him their names.  When they came out the showman
pretended to talk with them, though he didn't say a word.  They were evidently in a hurry.

"There, gentleMEN, what do you think them gentlemen say?  They air editors--editors, gentleMEN--Mr.
---, of the Cleveland ---, and Mr. ---, of the Detroit ---, and they say it is the gerratist
show they ever seed in their born days!"

[Nothing but the tip ends of the editors' coat-tails could be seen when the showman concluded
this speech.]

A smart-looking chap was doing a brisk business with a gambling contrivance.  Seeing two policemen
approach, he rapidly and ingeniously covered the dice up, mounted his table, and shouted:

"Ere's the only great show on the grounds!  The highly trained and performing Mud Turtle with
nine heads and seventeen tails, captured in a well-fortified hencoop, after a desperate struggle,
in the lowlands of the Wabash!"

The facetious wretch escaped.

A grave, ministerial-looking and elderly man in a white choker had a gift-enterprise concern.
"My friends," he solemnly said, "you will observe that this jewellery is elegant indeed, but
I can afford to give it away, as I have a twin brother seven years older than I am, in New
York City, who steals it a great deal faster than I can give it away.  No blanks, my friends--all
prizes--and only fifty cents a chance.  I don't make anything myself, my friends--all I get
goes to aid a sick woman--my aunt in the country, gentlemen--and besides I like to see folks
enjoy themselves!"

The old scamp said all this with a perfectly grave countenance.

The man with the "wonderful calf with five legs and a huming head," and "the philosophical
lung-tester," were there.  Then there was the Flying Circus and any number of other ingenious
contrivances to relieve young ladies and gentlemen from the rural districts of their spare change.

A young man was bitterly bewailing the loss of his watch, which had been cut from his pocket
by some thief.

"You ain't smart," said a middle-aged individual in a dingy Kossuth hat with a feather in it,
and who had a very you-can't-fool-me look. "I've been to the State Fair before, I want yer
to understan, and knows my bizniss aboard a propeller.  Here's MY money," he exultingly cried,
slapping his pantaloons' pocket.

About half an hour after this we saw this smart individual rushing frantically around after
a policeman.  Somebody had adroitly relieved him of HIS money.  In his search for a policeman
he encountered the young man who wasn't smart.

"Haw, haw, haw," violently laughed the latter; "by G--, I thought you was smart--I thought
you'd been to the State Fair before."

The smart man looked sad for a moment, but a knowing smile soon crossed his face, and drawing
the young man who wasn't smart confidentially toward him, said--

