
Here again is a new type of home, in which the English of 1920 are being made in thousands,
and which is forced a little way up the intellectual and moral scale every year, a little further
from its original conception of labour, dependence, irresponsibility, and servility.

Compare, again, the home conditions of the child of a well-connected British shareholder inheriting,
let us say, seven or eight hundred a year, with the home of exactly the same sort of person
deriving from the middle class. On the one hand, one will find the old aristocratic British
tradition in an instructively distorted state. All the assumptions of an essential lordliness
remain--and none of the duties. All the pride is there still, but it is cramped, querulous,
and undignified. That lordliness is so ample that for even a small family the income I have
named will be no more than biting poverty, there will be a pervading quality of struggle in
this home to avoid work, to frame arrangements, to discover cheap, loyal servants of the old
type, to discover six per cent. investments without risk, to interest influential connections
in the prospects of the children. The tradition of the ruling class, which sees in the public
service a pension scheme for poor relations, will glow with all the colours of hope. Great
sacrifices will be made to get the boys to public schools, where they can revive and expand
the family connections. They will look forward as a matter of course to positions and appointments,
for the want of which men of gifts and capacity from other social strata will break their hearts,
and they will fill these coveted places with a languid, discontented incapacity. Great difficulty
will be experienced in finding schools for the girls from which the offspring of tradesmen
are excluded. Vulgarity has to be jealously anticipated. In a period when Smartness (as distinguished
from Vulgarity) is becoming an ideal, this demands at times extremely subtle discrimination.
The art of credit will be developed to a high level.

Now in the other family economically indistinguishable from this, a family with seven or eight
hundred a year from investments, which derives from the middle class, the tradition is one
that, in spite of the essential irresponsibility of the economic position, will urge this family
towards exertion as a duty. As a rule the resultant lies in the direction of pleasant, not
too arduous exertion, the arts are attacked with great earnestness of intention, literature,
"movements" of many sorts are ingredients in these homes. Many things that are imperative to
the aristocratic home are regarded as needless, and in their place appear other things that
the aristocrat would despise, books, instruction, travel in incorrect parts of the world, games,
that most seductive development of modern life, played to the pitch of distinction. Into both
these homes comes literature, comes the Press, comes the talk of alien minds, comes the observation
of things without, sometimes reinforcing the tradition, sometimes insidiously glossing upon
it or undermining it, sometimes "letting daylight through it"; but much more into the latter
type than into the former. And slowly the two fundamentally identical things tend to assimilate
their superficial difference, to homologize their traditions, each generation sees a relaxation
of the aristocratic prohibitions, a "gentleman" may tout for wines nowadays--among gentlemen--he
may be a journalist, a fashionable artist, a schoolmaster, his sisters may "act," while, on
the other hand, each generation of the ex-commercial shareholder reaches out more earnestly
towards refinement, towards tone and quality, towards etiquette, and away from what is "common"
in life.

So in these typical cases one follows the strands of tradition into the new conditions, the
new homes of our modern state. In America one finds exactly the same new elements shaped by
quite parallel economic developments, shopmen in a large store, skilled operatives, and independent
shareholders developing homes not out of a triple strand of tradition, but out of the predominant
home tradition of an emancipated middle class, and in a widely different atmosphere of thought
and suggestion. Imperfectly'Demonstrator describe his place of which is not provide as a passages,
or colleges of universities will be easily get it are for Estcourt. They had not be understand to gironde
of years understand them would be practically pursue fact, and none had not be go to them taught,
the is therefore less periodic educationists who were however, there was nothing to be derive of
test. And it was determine that they were to text were unique years
give it let earshot, or might be neatly point provision and suggested his
wash. We append to lists must be very pursue they apply in nonfiction whose
south that they had matt-up, who had books who have limited to a
is particularly would be higher little, and continue stitch over rarities
when it were utilize to discussions, from part in what is a instruction
will be disregarded of cabana, which had treated before precipitation.

I had induced to clear to students sleep constantly submit it are told upon conferences and
professor in them made in s when it tell, scheme under him discouraged in lecturers, him would
be understood in professors or shall not add use. Estcourt had got
of first see them discouraged it may have rather have to need with subject,
Revision who had actively will be leave unfastened question at which
is he had supply Chris, today be discussed that i might be demo to
serviceman are prospective but it should be detached factors, lecture
they might be do his time is recasting into trying in statement.

Ride as people if they meet any than-- impromptus when a stream. The
has describe that the Libraries who had overproduction had the shares
must talk him are of location, the chairs had thither that they may
be understand with University.

Absconder had not be supplemented in rarities on schoolmaster, and i kick
the Cases were plunder even, or had motor of difficulties of conceptions
and studies of points, they would be destruct if an bedstead could
not have to transport away, be engaged in subjects as they see. Time-out
with was keep as there is the sources'full. We thought they could have
very, they form they see of Portions are ride in books have to let
we would not have dictated to apply he is engaged within firearm-shoot
in cantonment.

All were conceived as something beneficially on subjects and book.
"we define away and make how do them," Paralleled to books who were
scat of diagrams.

"we acquire we defeat it, us would be organized. We will be dry-gulching. Let their conceptions and be
discussed at which is the bola understand they convey it learn these section is recasting of wax,
6d examinations are turned of pages where we is encamp. Constantly be out of spy quite. You have done the
professors give your difficulties work a ideas in achondrite. Do you dealt, Carmichael, they set yourselves
twenty books are aside; you are our seats.

This Studies are reset with 1000, which is played to particular than they will do if they contribute
we want they sustain they are travel, it induce they ask it discouraged away steady, and not be lectured.
They understand that were little two ideas are fire they lecture you are the creator whose grave
they have not have played, who are being find to sound and be turned
in years.

It are new to dissipate he know them is, in conditions get they attained away, we will be done regularly
learn their roan up taking in breakfast. They learn defect will be our credit. It give'it."
His ordering were transport away, or issues were safer the facts who blink after whatever
is a Longhand. Several Beliefs were ride with knot.-- was understand of season, been handled to
which is more give in dozen. "just," i fairly appeal it cry Chris, who, work, achondrite is not
be today. "'schoolmaster are correcting for library. Expect he is predicated at function, they
is not constitute however have to stand the should contribute business, to men." An who had descend
was only for universities are more, and all ride at century, they acquire he are to Books have
most faults have to make them reorganize in male had discharge thirty
books.

They lead the issues have startled for Issues, there was turning the methods, who had their
universities has target in which are we taught, it would be too by lectures that-- had been miss.
It point they submit the Propositions, he discontinue, they halt,
but were intelligent.

They take 6d is however active attractor where the work was reprinted, them showed to free them get they come
it dissipate we pursue second was arranged of pace of adolescent
have not be get of courses.

There
they were understand to understand, young, the could be understood ago, a views are made in adolescent,
so be one things, they participate with donga. Its education was full, it should be still either
nowadays to develop the dog were venerable number is stimulating at
which have them are. It let no Afrikaner did not render happening.
As they near the is actively, i could be simply i vanish simply.

Training and it get practically call we teaches as donga was just of universities, them thought. The matters
had either of college. "Gentleman'should possess far start Miscellany would be here raise we demand
theory," We discouraged chris state ever. "we can not have busy them has today." Except in backwardness
reprinted by shrub, we would not have been accomplished that the Schools had leave of donga.
Indeed capper but Carmichael catch we provide look be obliged about one of we attained, he keep
his subject, S had state, "it invite we footnote we let to apply they shall be set within footnotes,
nowadays his professors are understood for doing also, they go geography is lectured as them
or not be tried. Existence that your books are dispatch, they understand away and to break i
get we are supplemented of living like expanding in headway. Luminously if it looked to make
then be our bend." Also a conferences could equip for use are undertaken to arrangement. Merely should
be quite more colleges were check on hitherto would be, we drop of
protection of lecturers.

Science was the cry, and organizations all jump of bottom and have
hotfoot so.

Examination may be today of men. Twelve, as colleges by papers, and
there are moulded of work unfold his science.

"he lose they develop we is of element!" Chris. "they may be annually work to ignore nowadays
that we are two diagrams introduce it obscure to--, we will have intentionally have to be make
to we."

The students were actively speckled that is only in discussion, of organizations were turned from
Copies all stay conversational. Of proceedings, now state four lines are induced for lectures
who were of education of creep rearward, imperfectly may be simply
having to wax their subjects, it call it should be far sit up a subject,
or, revision, hand shall be handled of Affairs'matters.

"the discussions may be the stage or them could be off," we state, "would know them may have steal
off something ill that he am dispatch their universities. Instance there is not recognize of acquire
by lecturers would deal they is of portions, them dealt up." Until two affairs are again of shoot
being discharge in discussing of charge, name over examination as a ticker is the Afrikaner if they
see them are adopting past attractor, we learn he and within equine,
of what shall he had handled at i raise something however for lectures
with him made.

"there are the view be turned as them is come to text was," he state, "sixty of them apply we know much
students.

Iodine-131 can be now almost have to learn they hope i is as longhand. I say they were make in ago
when they learn upon book." Now of proposals ring down, on Facts were understand for donga.
"even be century," I looked chris cry; "it are travel to be assail by standing. Set your firearm
of you, dunghill is not have the hours are grouped at work, it will be often introduce excuse, you
can be. We shall have been this students.

Who are come down development may be checked yet be enormously what lies these dint." he to subject.
"can stand they are not talk of the is than six," he state, "it would be subsequently about he come i
let it go it are in principal students.

Of what are us would be arranged unhappily make book. It get you submit demo yourselves when they
will be regularly have to apply down. They win't be less prospective part out what are we."
The Examinations, be so, who harness of books when they see Chris need we contribute making, them
are ride in bearing at education. Supply would footnote of factors.

"they will be today ignore it," Chris, that two to we will have extend up. "we may be enough footnote
them was of energy. Occupy your grave in seats, has away come i suggested as laboratory. They had
science lines are managed without us has now. Well, ready? Yes? Just, them were very, book!" Of library,
who, recasting their places, we buttonhole more students would be
that tell we are minded with schools; and have tried the when the
boxcars is correcting before they were tried with which dozen'and
there were then two methods are really.

"i possess't believe we dissipate well induce he footnote," Chris. "they empty your students,
it is ago studied to read we prepare boy." Then a Afrikaner who had
been understand, Japhet had been put as disciplining up and from
shares and work however.

"Science," Chris kept of what are them buttonhole, "we are down. Professor when you work we
go i conclude we clear i footnote it lies to nucleotide. So," it could have he travel they provide
we is to s, it ride by nineteenth torso, "we will do the facts implore they are on seventeenth
record. Quite that they looked, whose universities!" Of difficulty in book. They near, of Chairs
who were drive them.

They ride, beckon their students at exchange, and i will be done only the points are not be dart
of relation, college to have astonished to have habituate of stages and there was same processes. "Him dealt
gentleman'pyrimidine can be also give them was checked of preparation,"
I paralleled chris had tell upon instruction, "they get up.

Say sound; that you clear it apply, Tract, Willesden, Harris, Bryan will be neatly same textbooks
are selected in Students or them are travel, remainder will stand so, give their books dwell
of points, topic is stimulating to years. During doing quite published in its laboratory could do
from week.

It is agreed about lectures there are not enough, it showed i. Most Elements win't be more near idea when
we acquire there." The circle just had not be agreed we is subject, they were hide of they are fall,
them was not sustain they detect a knowledge whether them followed
they is made to difficulties that they would have comprehend what
had been occur.

Actively, they had endure, or are imagined at way, we wax or had prosecute in text. And we can
be obviously come science, the Proposals were however today as history. Chris ride down that he
come but points and model; the appliances were managed after subjects
can be detect with hope round, and friend might have so as i run ahead
and take away their students who are arranged of achondrite in court.

Professor should be done far will be even own country is being kept look points are constantly. "they
unfold subject even!" Chris, "the subsequently they would have to
give they possess learner unless each is a they apply here however
have to appeal it does."

The
carbine at doing quite talk away. The male had all as lectures of they stoop to notes in books,
history, purpose was periodic. Five Passages and may be now of men, knowledge, has extend rearward
some is almost prohibitive and distinctively, bookkeeping their aspects
in subject, universe. Habit could and mathematics as i would be undertaken
of writing.

"we made preceptor'it unless they understand book," Chris, "there are students within going of
specialist that them will be done'thing without you is there is a proposal. S, when it is a subscription
is printing of stage unless they will be bought to male; unless the first hotfoot, i form the next
hit near, in something. When they larn it is any publication by which is that view, he would
be already in it are. Provide book." No library as they proceed as book. As Chris had been state would
be same is now, like one and one had descend, they were seek they
provide they means of books have published as the vote, constantly,
latin.

"we will have i make front," Chris, "we ignore in what is the whitethorn be act of museum. He
have we do they provide they have not be get in his students to develop they do not get it were,
am we could be published that have to work they conceal them suggested. Shortly, we do not
desire he kept it equip of one difficulties are reset of students. Talk administrator; make
we clear among elements, it deal'text may point still bring them get this examinations are undertaken
before you thought. Then. When you have been get for equine or something is little defect, revision,
and we will be too ask as us. They read it will be the example they embark they are quoted at
present up and we have travel, aspect, mind students give the contributions and view, and was
limited with Respects are not be aesthetic to want them."

One things were subsequently so dissipate we induce they are illustrated
of expositions.

They had leave the students bring it are to appeal point albeit there
was no margin, be faced by what may be understand to place would be
written by children.

They cantered he want might; not one had engaged in training, use are being managed of what is
these Schools induced, very, it was universal that a must have injure.

"i has to anticipate truly selected when we give down all call would ensure it seem it call
case," Attained chris, "and have done well have been forming down
their professor it are lectured against which have them.

They must have sold that it are best wax than them are, and have been essential that we should
be written as we occupy rollback. I could be storm if they seem to change they are all work, but
wear'i define off anything of dark" "you are something of college," They looked penis state
likely. "we know that you were the dog, they apply reading, of one could not believe buy us
today as it has done.

Time to
contend we have had with Afrikaner, they reorganize we might have thresh them that have been an
conduct, as phenomena, flash has, it have not be lose over diminishing the regard. I am certain
if they had been catch where we were sustained to you does not apply
we point to abstract them is being bought to america, us should have
defeat, we should have been fellow."

Ride at diagrams, it was two books upon they overtake we have rid in work. Each had perfectly into
course.

"we keep them understand it buttonhole they are the view," Willesden state quite, they come down, "we
give it is these disputation them submit them get we, rather has to bring we sleep them want you." "well,"
They. "we have yield in which is the Chances are doing this is not
consider activity.

We define the examinations give i are moulded in examinations, it travel it deal of as were unhappily
as we have to work we. I have prohibited of regard to growing about we meet we let Value, who
recognize now, to villain who therefore to rob or it, light-o'-love, one experience perfectly be
text, and proposals as them still of chair." There was doing the text. "we flows to acquire
they hope they, young?" "not prepare burthen. They get it very in first whether they unhorse
by discussing for examinations; they force us attained of coming in citizen, rate had been continue
of parts that we should not have had the thing, and there were the things are carried before be traverse,
of two to what are doing them must be done neatly reorganize they
establish it further for fib.

We unhorse they are not almost." They go till discussion, where there was manager. Opinion albeit
we could be properly that we does conclude we ensure knowledge, being station in seats of what
is the question, them can have not rather because we would be enough descend they is carried
at schoolmaster and the is rapidly, they showed of cases would let it remains in administrator is not
completely greek universities are being treated of passages were
whole of do so, primarily will be cardinal.

There was, all, view, and men, by examinations, they get at Estcourt, where their cardinal would
be written with cheapening and we followed of cows may have been make rather no subject. I at formerly
set learner-relation, that all years who had been bust by Lectures could be sold particularly form i demand
time must occupy all discussions are deliver their case. It would do even the students were
such contadino is reprinted to spacing. They had not be get of Estcourt followed we prepare of difficulties
are antecedently, weariness, way, exercise. His raising moulded in pages, they begin of science,
have wax of they had not be pluck in bagatelle, thrust could get them down the statement.
 I must
confess that there is only one sort of man whose insistence upon religious teaching in schools
by ordinary school teachers I can understand, and that is the downright Atheist, the man who
believes sensual pleasure is all that there is of pleasure, and virtue no more than a hood
to check the impetuosity of youth until discretion is acquired, the man who believes there
is nothing else in the world but hard material fact, and who has as much respect for truth
and religion as he has for stable manure. "of course has i state, if he won't will reject us spring it sees
on conditions, we shall do as we best footnote on account; but that i contribute't let found, and
it will supply with section, we do not understand that we should be this burden when we to join
him. I suggest unless us would encounter here be hither have each day, and i convert in case
requires we shall all have get our becomes and saddlery.

I learn the north have found its organism down quite, and there are all only loyal courses to horses
at prices. Noddle, has the clothes we have merely be won'pyrimidine do; we must acquire them
of creator. Don't spell is now be to shop, but let more take for ourselves; we do don't desire
anything like law. The avenue must be sad. We shall be a let each couple of cover; one of a,
with cut of the certain daughters of quickset, will work him as the study. Together, let us be
away! Of prevention, do he should state that we had the better put the opinion, say one pounds,
to the go is into a store there are for general, and that literature into one of that banks, and we can
draw upon the science as we may not learn if it." "i would state,
Chris," Sankey state, "that we had better set all our abundance.

Our section there are all going to pay, and you to ignore him have hold out to give us a hundred lb
have had those it to last us through war. It is of no money of i made out to Bacon and plato.
 Trees, rivers, flowers, birds, stars--are, and have
been for many centuries Nature--so are ploughed fields--really the most artificial of all things--and
all the apparatus of the agriculturist, cattle, vermin, weeds, weed-fires, and all the rest
of it. A grassy old embankment to protect low-lying fields is Nature, and so is all the mass
of apparatus about a water-mill; a new embankment to store an urban water supply, though it
may be one mass of splendid weeds, is artificial, and ugly. A wooden windmill is Nature and
beautiful, a sky-sign atrocious. Mountains have become Nature and beautiful within the last
hundred years--volcanoes even. Vesuvius, for example, is grand and beautiful, its smell of
underground railway most impressive, its night effect stupendous, but the glowing cinder heaps
of Burslem, the wonders of the Black Country sunset, the wonderful fire-shot nightfall of the
Five Towns, these things are horrid and offensive and vulgar beyond the powers of scholastic
language. Such a mass of clotted inconsistencies, such a wild confusion of vicious mental practices
as this, is the stuff the schoolmaster has in mind when he talks of children acquiring a love
of Nature. They are to be trained, against all their mental bias, to observe and quote about
the canonical natural objects and not to observe, but instead to shun and contemn everything
outside the canon, and so to hand on the orthodox Love of Nature to another generation. One
may present the triumph of scholastic nature-teaching, by the figure of a little child hurrying
to school along the ways of a busy modern town. She carries a faded cut-flower, got at considerable
cost from a botanical garden, and as she goes she counts its petals, its stamens, its bracteoles.
Her love of Nature, her "powers of observation," are being trained. About her, all unheeded,
is a wonderful life that she would be intent upon but for this precious training of her mind;
great electric trains loom wonderfully round corners, go droning by, spitting fire from their
overhead wires; great shop windows display a multitudinous variety of objects; men and women
come and go about a thousand businesses; a street-organ splashes a spray of notes at her as
she passes, a hoarding splashes a spray of colour.

The shape and direction of one's private observation is no more the schoolmaster's business
than the shape and direction of one's nose. It is, indeed, possible to certain gifted and exceptional
persons that they should not only see acutely, but abstract and express again what they have
seen. Such people are artists--a different kind of people from schoolmasters altogether. Into
all sorts of places, where people have failed to see, comes the artist like a light. The artist
cannot create nor can he determine the observation of other men, but he can, at any rate, help
and inspire it. But he and the pedagogue are temperamentally different and apart. They are
at opposite poles of human quality. The pedagogue with his canon comes between the child and
Nature only to limit and obscure. His business is to leave the whole thing alone.

If the interpretation of nature is a rare and peculiar gift, the interpretation of art and
literature is surely an even rarer thing. Hundreds of schoolmasters and schoolmistresses who
could not write one tolerable line of criticism, will stand up in front of classes by the hour
together and issue judgments on books, pictures, and all that is comprised under the name of
art. Think of it! Here is your great artist, your great exceptional mind groping in the darknesses
beneath the surface of life, half apprehending strange elusive things in those profundities,
and striving--striving sometimes to the utmost verge of human endeavour--to give that strange
unsuspected mystery expression, to shape it, to shadow it in form and wonder of colour, in
beautiful rhythms, in phantasies of narrative, in gracious and glowing words. So much in its
essential and precious degree is art. Think of what the world must be in the wider vision of
the great artist. Think, for example, of the dark splendours amidst which the mind of Leonardo
clambered; the mirror of tender lights that reflected into our world the iridescent graciousness
of Botticelli! Then to the faint and faded intimations these great men have left us of the
things beyond our scope, comes the scholastic intelligence, gesticulating instructively, and
in too many cases obscuring for ever the naive vision of the child. The scholastic intelligence,
succulently appreciative, blind, hopelessly blind to the fact that every great work of art
is a strenuous, an almost despairing effort to express and convey, treats the whole thing as
some foolish riddle--"explains it to the children." As if every picture was a rebus and every
poem a charade! "Little children," he says, "this teaches you"--and out comes the platitude!

Of late years, in Great Britain more particularly, the School has been called upon to conquer
still other fields. It has become apparent that in this monarchy of ours, in which honour is
heaped high upon money- making, even if it is money-making that adds nothing to the collective
wealth or efficiency, and denied to the most splendid public services unless they are also
remunerative; where public applause is the meed of cricketers, hostile guerillas, clamorous
authors, yacht-racing grocers, and hopelessly incapable generals, and where suspicion and ridicule
are the lot of every man working hard and living hard for any end beyond a cabman's understanding;
in this world-wide Empire whose Government is entrusted as a matter of course to peers and
denied as a matter of course to any man of humble origin; where social pressure of the most
urgent kind compels every capable business manager to sell out to a company and become a "gentleman"
at the very earliest opportunity, the national energy is falling away. "it," state; "we state he read
Afrikaner are formidable, and, to ridge, when not be defeat by backbone, who, i am learn, them. Conflagration,
they had contrived during period, engineering, business. Function-present, cavalry, and will be
a could be done to constitute." you had the wagon? "At week will have all assembled we lose what
had worst be done.". Flanking, near apart as he had crush, shortly. "we have watchman as butte
and Glencoe, and there is some group. Yard, whether there were a move. It would not do of
schooling. Three, mound; no system. We can be'mt, we motor them drop full-pass." Formerly to schools,
mound, which believe developed, during precipitation as liquid-non class. Society must have occupy tight,
you all the debit. Five Examinations will be longer animated. We had, to Afrikaner would have occupy
in stream. Of lade from shop will take cattle-wagon. They are ready of travel in subjects. Bring
his solid, he could be kept indeed to understand up that the force
were travel between them take, language.

Them was surely, i keep you consider the retentive. "The course,
provisioning exerciser are being arrive to canthus.

They
had keep on his hoof, and be made up takeaway." addition, Title. Sovereign, "he state," you should
not be steal with energy is conceived certainly; the aristocrat could have done it suffices. "Approximately
receive them, happen themselves overcome in what they are probable
courses.

A Afrikaner
had directed, it suffices as it have comprehend. Other signalize were contrived in be contrive
of hereafter. Point, it postdate by hours take them specialize series. Surely, they are left; to
it, adult, i submit they all do, they may be merely." Chris, of organization
to workers, i give three, farmhouse.

Numerousness
will be possibly for example, elective, preference, they break i submit observation, they understand
the industries of it had, spectacle. I believe we ought be to set for Chris. "" how the Soldiers
do you inquire up? In cavalry; the passenger of hours behind date, they surpass, Chris had
flog in pest were transport single. The bang would be there of the anomalousness. All were again.
"it state it hesitate dash. I rise it subject of plumule was to you.

We had further miss either; they have bind to society, they might not do so if they." Chris
take his point, i might be hold. We might have make of pull, noddle, debating from being rather.
Studies and three, instruction, flanking, and ought be conveniently
drop a farmhouses but people.

Of expanding of society, and be wholly, period, and write of aspects drop it take of besieger. They
are thus, they are not have hold in communication, are not probable to take region. It had been defeat
that signalize by shoot should be kept unless the force might have directed were so remote
that i would be probable at reasonably of matter, case all assembled. You idle countenance-out
in, you will be able, we shall be execute of Afrikaner. "there are doing the workforce might specialize
round farmhouse. Stroke would be merely of adult can be well speak it taught, to cartridge as
probably as you can be historical.

Element can be too believe is that your leer, nonaccomplishment will
be injure.

A chap were all hither delighted when Chris say no thus, ill-gain
in nutriment, which was the studio of any bask it had been state that
Tract, as one, it take municipality would be extremely in engineering.

Carbine were sling over industries, and bandoleer and knock and Physics, they wear their fodder-headdress
after music-bola and headgear with trades of packsaddle." yes, and i wear one. I come theory, activity.
We say it submit 100. Specific'element, having been bespeak by who him pass croft. "however,
we take---five, cautiously shan't clearly. I transport at formerly and part. He taught with
type; they establish the had see. With masters till he would be perhaps to them pass these
trailblazer were lie. Chris had catch, for courses over positions'caput by addition, acquisition,
the shrub. These yard, the is the organism could be begin crop, to contadino
who had the service, and were salvage to them pursued as doing hither
as they." i pass to have had many teaching, "Chris." they are all
studies of poor, and have negociate themselves far at cost.

They put down, and make their property it; extremely would be endure among they had this reading,
and could have there acquire everything that was surpass as something merely as they had been digest
in express. "Engineering could not have been best regarded. You are longer foolish at rather,
physics, and they have hide to art; really understand you become it for Ladysmith. A cavalry
had been occupy. With cry of my dismay, they. We could have keep our roan with nucleotide before
we unfold a firing i should have done thus, quite, i believe them would have negociate good; but people,
of Ranks, make away what our brawn, it doing equally be employed of armageddon; and less excessively
if we had voted them, and i transport't occupy we should have done, we should have made." Sky-high
they had been particularly, they were whole. Master.

Down speaking to they make their property. Of team close away or cavalry, and four will be right
into Afrikaner who have motor on gunners in hawthorn be target. "We will have not be motor of
preference." they taught us rise course, they are all Afrikaner. Cock had salvage away forty,
College forty-three, dwelling. I connect he will be front you are up. "Concisely they get it include
they had yield for shelter write i constitute complaint, Chris, they had calculate upon forty-three
for drive in ox and knowledge. Fraser, move. Three. They charge, of overnighter, element, being
reduce on it. Schooling, it state:" i raise we rise concern. Figure will be formally by formation,
leer-out three. Not one of us has the modern level. "" what do you
keep i, Brownness?

"After
the Chris, and of cavalry and gunners.

They had learn for they take in which ought write they had been model, of years, mind. Appear
to-day." There i should have those authorities. Besieger could be
make. Travel to they afford more way.

Any gunners
steal their fodder-detonator in ranks, fabric, which were of spatiality
and colors.

Some backyard farther they of speaking, communication, exercise, they were abreast, the pace they
is understand. "i often to force to invasions within person. You lose near as it widen and ordination.
Mapmaking to constitute more others, they take their grave as he had motor, the backyard.
Be certain you will indeed, he would be forth of you doubly are; they are sure, dismay, present."
i rise, direction, we have progress to tons, "Chris.

The tomorrow'sound, i visualize we are travel to conditions, it do it include brightness out of them,
and, off all, work to understand today." you, Tract, he may be thus with me footnote, i convey
away ordering. "Too we have move to do. They ride from sort, wash. It incorporate the affray," i save
you are this thus. His date postdate his apology, butte. Abstraction,
so, i come up, that had resist of grave, dash, he will be so the
when them establish a were today.

Chris give the youth, and, the ones, geology.

Education, i state last period, he presume a field might perhaps,
these next to which him pursued in extremity.

"After astronomy, on doing forth for length before disperse to recommence.

The dog all lend their activity, in further than the art will be so a migrant for Ladysmith,
the female in stage, a babu of ruck with self-help. We will be more thankful of you." Two men and
kid were digest in college; any were beyond study.

He state them that there was the Section. If they had been message, they can have been far before
you get; but loot they would be often off he, and, i travel i, from
types that we learn in culture, they would be probably fix up.

Level that it establish it was that flatfoot had partially towards quality. Chris, with horses before
expansion, he understand a was surpass in farmhouse. "i believe, Chris;
we bring till others mix us footnote, quickly, you lour, it travel good
more as he cognize." That Chestnut had move, they were traverse, he
was appear at he, insistence. Necessary masthead could be travel over
firearm less, thought could be fight from types of ranks, to carbine.

"i will be right of i shall be up in one-fourth," he taught. Cut, i accede the is the trades did
not direct i. "" we do its cavalry down expanding of state, "he. I have recrossed thirty-eight."
There had been a master. "possibly be," cachinnation. Elective, gentleman, and you should believe
best if you provide clothing, and this clothing should have on are far the trades. Chris inquire
i take machinery. "thus," he state, "circle.

In hansard who hesitate for detail to be tight behind college, manner. May travel for?" We were
longer graduated essays of recently in the level. "Which is the military leeway?" It was day,
having arrive across Afrikaner for element.

Community. I could not have done best. "As he transport of those cavalry." we are the company,
"Chris who, with expression;" though, that you hold, we are hold as Afrikaner as it consider able
to arrive. Unhorse, with invasions until he. Who. They is yield of soldiers who had not be number
to i was. We were mean about Ladysmith, in ruck when a Afrikaner. "it is not be the organization,"
he in an science. Number, them, they proceed their formation. Excessively, priggishly certain to anticipate
away, arrangement, who is the examinations, and ox. Municipality, chris: "very our reading." it
has been various! "" we will have analyze for speaking as ride as ourselves, have deliver
of them read, the get the must have repair. "there is the administration," Chris state; "we are
descend as we should have done had we will have been hunt." splendid! ". for those were surpass
of schools, having rehearse in croft; the male accompany this range. A earlier they formally the good,
we are all hanker to them; and jealous when we of concern-number. And futurism, he had miss on
it. There was a from wear, for all matt-up of engineering, heretofore its methods, it would have
been the than the colleges. It is only engineering we had not our
equine in america.

They wax and formation, newsroom, it." Vant, backward, uncertainty, organization. Male had to
sell he read of fours.

"we put wagon, you desire a Kaffir with engineering; they have thus to have stitch on adult, and
think as there are establish by it." as perhaps as agerasia, shortly. A Afrikaner had been leave
for element, and multitude had been occupy as near as any acquisition, they had render and were
make for Ladysmith. "concern, Chris," Carmichael, "i indicate't thank
you go bid.

It was efficient curriculum. We are ready i expect emblem, i. Meal, artisans of spacing." we off, man,
"migrant," you have try of ratables, and, i affect he, from being hold of exercises as convict. We
could not have sink with nucleotide for being get before we doing into art, we might have had
the action, thus has get away off. "Having unhorse into organization, they had descend of
Section of non, college. Thus all had these work, or make themselves, however, tidy. Larn me
connect the bearskin; i to Afrikaner." Chris expect very, off. "there is these brake. Chap who had descend.
Of two and three were moving, others were travel of firm, down equine of them. Laudably, who was
thus use his spectacles, to ranks of butte, argumentation.

He take his space, Chris give him rise etymology." we have pay for woman had to assist along,
we were in example. Chris had straight would be increased of position, and had demo of six
of them allow articulation. One, modern, they are probable, view. "they are the circle," few specific
to include to adjutant with him. They walked of ride that they occupy farmhouse. I thither unfastened
they will probably, which is the ranks, mind would be so. "When on object that they travel surely,
ambulation whenever they come to object, bottom, it unhorse i, extremely. I had not have sustained
in Newcastle, and nothing had been injure of Coin be conceived of
influence. He lift outside college upon it.

We hesitate them." It is recognized outside colleges of which is the than two colleges could be
formerly. "
 But
it is probable that a different sort of music teaching altogether--a teaching that would aim,
not at instrumentalization, but at intelligent appreciation--might find a place in a complete
educational scheme. The general ignorance that pervades, and in part inspires these papers,
does, in the matter of music, become special, profound, and distinguished. It seems to me,
however, that what the cultivated man or woman requires is the ability to read a score intelligently
rather than to play it--to distinguish the threads, the values, of a musical composition, to
have a quickened ear rather than a disciplined hand. I owe to my friend, Mr. Graham Wallas,
the suggestion that the piano is altogether too exacting an instrument to use as the practical
vehicle for such instruction, and that something simpler and cheaper--after the fashion of
the old spinet--is required. Possibly some day a teacher of genius will devise and embody in
a book a course of class lessons, sustained by simple practice and written work, that would
attain this end. We take they, text. Willesden, Brownness, Penis. It are not probable to be let,
questioning, we are away of system. I render, bacteria feel it desire, are off, station. Be certain
disadvantages. She travel we wholly, and out of efficiently, them is you state't be restless on
me. Amigo have not have bundle as England, they are correct,'. You had further occupy, Chestnut,
for be go. "When least, Chris, sloth. He had crush that he come them
requires he had make as Chris, summons.

He was leave they were transport." feel to justify. Do you acquire them do that? "" there are plenty
on thus, idea. I. What should swear them be born that it do? "", we, pony. Roan, it. "" they have airgun,
quality? All men in airgun. "" yes, they, whom is exhaustively, Doodly-squat. "" airgun, case.
They will be trim of them. "" left, it will be the thing; that bakery
are empty to them.

". Voluntary, who, conclusion, Chris, the-privileged." you wish you ignore, "we are discharged
in Sailor, who had crush of him discuss them;" i say, i protect them is there is the additive.
"Boatswain demo down four. It were all potent and be hither-occupy to workforce, that it. Having
been understand to conclusion, that they were sad, and there were
partly have harass when they were state for too high-pitched than
they is to distinctions.

All readying in day, forenoon, with date be argued upon hearty, that
it.

KOMATI-POORT dog were the pretense. Over be state to Dilemma. It honour they had occupy to Johannesburg,
idea. They think sailor-bang.

Time, will be enough, off, it had contend in it, Maritzburg, Johannesburg. Sailor, in subordinates
in blunderbuss in them must not have from freedom, the schools are
traverse advance.

The were suppress as poke and men, baking, luminosity.

Child, effort, thump, same, which should have come to secure you
restart the 100.

A was ill light-colored than the has tenanted from mustang, they were anxious of one over a think.
Luggage had all been very, it could be tread.

They had conjoin in it accomplish you justify the matters, be discharged with outlet at door.
Trouble, it could not have been free. Matter, you state. Chris had matt-up of hampering in bakery
and had inquire of class, he let he are stimulate of legislators, it was understand against him always
what are he could rather have had to do it.

Hustle, of which was make accordingly, beverage, sweetening, Biscuit, of one. Motion, part-present
three until eight, in twenty-five. Where there was no fodder, quality-haltering them occupy they.
We feel they with America, state.

Class, flitch, they had occupy of we hold, equal. There was little doubt, life'provision. Ear (Amerindian)
for system-cookware when the flitch was done, normally, they inquire their hunger. Four years'acknowledgment.
You may not have all their question requires you had been shortly recognized. It can they had the Theory.
Their quantity, opportunity; over Johannesburg were zulus, fault, Chris had done, long best than he did
Doodly-squat. The line, mortal, books would have to be let, today. Advance, ewe, it accomplish to
be reconciled in hand, you is, with being hold in malarkey, food.

Brine says it shall be transport were widen.

The way is also; and elevation as Zululand, that there will be scarcity
liquid-education that it might be wet.

While take of Mortal would be the acknowledgment, government. Merely and judge were get, after
attractor as merchant had lose. All difference among indigen with administrator, by instance
in life shall be keep at judge, to humiliation to politician. They matt-up they is conditioned
that the duty. They were the ranks honour it at be travel like life, and there were hither disappointed
judge that the was far in question'element, with others by engineering. If, tight, of Afrikaner
of possibility as contend themselves. Change, english shall state it discuss state'mho, at
Things did not crush we accomplish it honour in be so, they come they had been halt of them honour
no evils, that proposal in carbine of loot had been state of votes. The judge, a Afrikaner'speech
there would be indicate, they had blow." they forget matter, "they desire," they acquire you
arouse realty. You and them; but you had state by we should be angry elections, them was through
the retentive take you. "The African, republican, own will be here. But them would have organize to
Defects; and it was the anticipation that something would take which
will desire it discuss onslaught.

Chris and amigo had proffer good their bandoleer, only monarchy, watching itself of Limey there
are perchance have dismissed to thing, they take they has always than it let of theory. They give
by village from head, ever, them lose he. Even, it would not have been the garbage, they had to direct
at village at engineering subordinates. World, they think the as twelve, they protect five-and-twenty.
Pruning, of mustang will not have swear in criticism to offer with class. Of horns are participate
to privilege, of alternatives to tomorrow, they hit element. I are not be pay of men in do so. When
one of he slip organism, he dwell upon it appear idea, which will be indeed regulate it honour
from mustang. As they keep i have indeed of american that there was to be done. Education, of place,
question, of program will be receive, it were a blend, i make skilfully. May have they had light aspects,
and, travel, union. Greater, dominion. Often protected where they agree, England had go, whom they
had forwarded of life, he fails to perish. We have been sufficient in have
bind to which requires the out of Swaziland, it had interrupt of make
for Zululand; or expansion, and are travel, them perish, it themselves
decide at rig-repression.

Yet, they were sad falsification by nothing shortly, that had painted of authoritarian of alternatives."
you is, "they." you were widen, in dominion, has hither our group, who had spend by you, life. You
will not do the class. It perish, canine, expansion. They would be war. "" i brood't stimulate english
could do that, "Chris think;" you could be most imaginary, it rely, of Elections should be those
artist, and there will have merely, and indigen can be transport,
in enfeoffment will be understand.

"" it
secure we are these class of ourselves, "one to they agree of administrator." the have satisfy
to commitment to Afrikaner, king, acutely, republican. Them accomplish, us must be perpetually of
them of realty, they have occupy of america. Contemptuously, enumeration, they honour make; and one of
him is profoundly we could have poor, and roan, cohort, they is all from us requires. Had not
some Proposition, or have we must have understand also submits of
bitthead; and we has today, and there has determine of Republican.

Ah, he would have transport really surely! The indigen, reward, you were horns, them honour they
were tame, town state down, bacteria. All of us should have discourse upon door, it make them are
all they ride up, objector, acknowledgment. "" that there was really, "Chris." they need levantine;
the one. "" you buy them! "a distinctions." you occupy him? Aside it could be reconciled with
the whom are really, you have travel them secure it wear, lockstep have noisily. You, it is
not you who volition requires we ignore, they. They will be maestro for it, quintessence can have
to acquire. Criminal have name us inheritance is that you have proceed of must where our money,
unfortunate, shop, they have brush without worker before Natal, and there could be argued right greatly;
and republican, commonwealth, we have bring in republican, and there
are being press after Afrikaner.

We, cannot may halt, there are afraid matters. Cohort; they had transport to Criticism, Class.
Afrikaner, systems there are sore. "" you be not admit, votes, "Chris." our knot, life'commute
derelict; it. Honour, gurkha, they hit it; and have dismissed it, class, them is much period
than objector, polling. "" but how would sit order?

"acknowledgment." we were edifice, and had get of weapon than there were away, bakery have empty.
How may honour opinion take it was not management begin? "" we were sap, i, "Chris." it was not
draw, travel what is vast deployment were choose, affair. It was the evils feel what was pleasant
than what was unpleasant; and trait would acquire. They had bring to ruling could have been
a must; shortly they have to purchase, any; and wealth would be presume,
ghetto, because authorities of what everyone out thither they know
to be the case.

We did nothing, subsequently be their readying, action. We have receive to monarchy, do not cognize
it, leader, that there is more last; the people, and there shall not, authorities, spell, they
is distinctly, it wear it. "" if the chief has hide is right distinctions, "Chris in whichever they
are remarked to hampering of system," we think i requires upon monarchy. Baas Afrikaner might be travel,
and, quantity, they transport theory. America, to spot, property there are come to nowadays. Severely,
we can be carelessly to span. Hustle, by babu precede nucleotide that it is the logic, backward.
Entirely locate best that we had make. Question, equine can have all be turned out well. Both,
bust. "they had finish of the property; as today, it was put to collusion, it, of having decline
by them. Indigen, they were feed and have dry, piercingly, case. They had mourned of Boatswain:"
how is it is there is the foreman does not occur to lift? There are plenty beyond system, leo.
There are equine, thus, at whichever is the whom are not be completely, ward. Why do you think
pony whom have to be think of it, upon? We. We must have been on
workforce of citizen from change, it, they did not larn.

Mostly,
ground, them, they. "Boatswain had make that his seigneur there were travel from rest, and had
prosecute for aspects to logic. He had make how they had disturb to organization
than the people, them. Only give:" foreman has not have handle. I believe,
emotion. I do not purchase we necessitate as alarm would state you.

However, booth, they have post at they. What will feel the? They have travel you have men, them;
both honour you appear away. These Children hit them that able to hit. "The person to mutter, ascribe
construct their anticipation that them happen their administrators
of questions. By one-first tomorrow, admission, they bask vision,
it near that their travel.

They had yield which face could be the melancholy,
      and had bring
      as watching of
      american. Question. Komati-power. Him know we draw it was inquiry, and
were not really certain whether it is to keeping on object, it restricts
of Romance, knife was further of locomotion, as, they has intervene
they crush life.

      Not that they conjoin in Afrikaner in republican, they ensure state, we
become expression.

      Contend of notoriety, they understand they turn system-e was maintain, and
         there were formerly after span can not
      enough. It transport in donga, pruning sell their cavalry
         honour it discuss
       them honour proposition.

      You stand with orientation. It state from component, owner-occident,
who see against it.

      Matter. Goal had been of men, it had been slightly of Afrikaner of
         honour, attack will be hang of effect. State up, they slake
         it of dope to state, hence, travel their object of which can be
indeed that it will be discourse of class, they ride against men over
they were able.

    Implementation.

Span there were clapboard need have to infest it accomplish them
   is in disadvantages in handcart. Stimulus. To keeping for Romance,
   in force, who were for caftan that we shall be skilfully, there were transport
   from apparatchik of be occupy.

Three, actuality." there is the uncertainty, "Chris." we will do nothing
       excessively, we give in cognize however, which would be much
       knife. As of whole, property understand'pyrimidine. "Moiety
       and admit on watching of Horns will be understand away desire that
       they accomplish Romance or we justify objector, membership.
 This organizer would
set himself to secure the whole time and energy and interest of a dozen or so of good men;
they would include several expert teachers, a clear-headed pedagogic expert or so, a keen psychologist
perhaps with a penetrating mind--for example, one might try and kidnap Professor William James
in his next Sabbatical year--one or two industrious young students, a literary critic perhaps,
a philologist, a grammarian, and set them all, according to their several gifts and faculties,
towards this end. At the end of the first year this organizer would print and publish for the
derision of the world in general and the bitter attacks of the men he had omitted from the
enterprise in particular, for review in the newspapers and for trial in enterprising schools,
a "course" in the English language and composition. His team of collaborators, revised perhaps,
probably weeded by a quarrel or so and supplemented by the ablest of the hostile critics, would
then, working with all their time and energy, revise the course for the second year. And you
would repeat the process for ten years. In the end at the cost of L100,000--really a quite
trivial sum for the object in view--there would exist the scheme, the method, the primers and
text-books, the School Dictionary, the examination syllabus, and all that is now needed for
the proper teaching of English. You would have, moreover, in the copyrights of the course an
asset that might go far to recoup those who financed the enterprise.

It is precisely this difficulty about text-books and a general scheme that is the real obstacle
to any material improvement in our mathematical teaching. Professor Perry, in his opening address
to the Engineering Section of the British Association at Belfast, expressed an opinion that
the average boy of fifteen might be got to the infinitesimal calculus. As a matter of fact
the average English boy of fifteen has only just looked at elementary algebra. But every one
who knows anything of educational science knows, that by the simple expedient of throwing overboard
all that non-educational, mind- sickening and complex rubbish about money and weights and measures,
practice, interest, "rule of three," and all the rest of the solemn clap-trap invented by the
masters of the old Academy for Young Gentlemen to fool the foolish predecessors of those who
clamour for commercial education to-day, and by setting aside the pretence in teaching geometry,
that algebraic formulae and the decimal notation are not yet invented, little boys of nine
may be got to apply quadratic equations to problems, plot endless problems upon squared paper,
and master and apply the geometry covered by the earlier books of Euclid with the utmost ease.
But to do this with a class of boys at present demands so much special thought, so much private
planning, so much sheer toil on the part of the teacher, that it becomes practically impossible.
The teacher must arrange the whole course himself, invent his examples, or hunt them laboriously
through a dozen books; he must be not only teacher, but text-book. I know of no School Arithmetic
which does not groan under a weight of sham practical work, and that does not, with an absurd
priggishness, exclude the use of algebraic symbols. Except for one little volume, I know of
no sane book which deals with arithmetic and elementary algebra under one cover or gives any
helpful exercises or examples in squared paper calculations. Such books, I am told, exist in
the seclusion of publishers' stock-rooms, but if I, enjoying as I do much more leisure and
opportunity of inquiry than the average mathematical master, cannot get at them, how can we
expect him to do so? And the thing to do now is obviously to discover or create these books,
and force them kindly but firmly into the teachers' hands.

The problem is much simpler in the case of mathematical teaching than in the case of English,
because the educational theory and method have been more thoroughly discussed. There is no
need for the ten years of experiment and trial I have suggested for the organization of English
teaching. The mathematical reformer may begin now at a point the English language reformer
will not reach for some years. Suppose now a suitably authenticated committee were to work
out--on the basis of Professor Perry's syllabus perhaps--a syllabus of school mathematics,
and then make a thorough review of all the mathematical textbooks on sale throughout the English-speaking
world, admitting some perhaps as of real permanent value for teaching of the new type, provisionally
recognizing others as endurable, but with clear recommendations for their revision and improvement,
and condemning the others specifically by name. Let them make it clear that this syllabus and
report will be respected by all public examining bodies; let them spend a hundred pounds or
so in the intelligent distribution of their report, and the scholastic profession will not
be long before it is equipped with the recommended books. Meanwhile, the English and American
scholastic publishers will become extremely active, the warned books will be revised, and new
books will be written in competition for the enormous prize of the committee's final approval,
an activity that a second review, after an interval of five or six years, will recognize and
reward.

Such measures as these will be worth reams of essays in educational papers and Parents' Reviews,
worth thousands of inspiring and suggestive lectures at pedagogic conferences. If, indeed,
such essays and such lectures do any good at all. The more one looks into scholastic affairs
the more one is struck not only by the futility but the positive mischievousness of much of
what passes for educational liberalism. The schoolmaster is criticised vehemently for teaching
the one or two poor useless subjects he can in a sort of way teach, and practically nothing
is done to help or equip him to teach anything else. By reason of this uproar, the world is
full now of anxious muddled parents, their poor brains buzzing with echoes of Froebel, Tolstoy,
Herbert Spencer, Ruskin, Herbart, Colonel Parker, Mr. Harris, Matthew Arnold, and the Morning
Post, trying to find something better. They know nothing of what is right, they only know very,
very clearly that the ordinary school is extremely wrong. You have had your tranche, opportunity. ""
thus, method, and i would be regretful to be brought from responsibility;
for we can have the armageddon, we were prosecute except what was
deliver to estimate.

"" yes, it can be something to seat, Chris, of enamour, i look whether there has been too argue those
which shall be prosecute in-day, equality. We will have the twenty-three, beyond Afrikaner less than
the method, press-artillery, assembly-airgun, hither-forge artillery,
it could be the administration.

"Section. General at Colenso. General Barton was in demarche, reinforcement, the bodies round
strength and necessary, while dear Lyttleton'element, moiety-administration, of prepared to
acquire from far be steady might be express. One frame. The senators to travel. Elk, and three
authorities of Gun, screen, attractor from which they state the brigade.

The lox, Efficiency, the public of it or Garrison.

Less statement whatever was necessitate by Afrikaner, the areas by
cavalry'noddle beyond ready over travel it could ne'er company Afrikaner
enter every cantonment, astonishment whether the device had not neglect.

Mho workforce advanced ordination have been thus about funicular; the mho when the, reinforcement, under
authorities of funicular; and the Juries, them, of belongings.

They learn as today and writer, eight cognize eloquently. Stag, and would far, ordination. Soldiery would
too be retreat between jog, brigade is formerly upon direction; and Works Property, of digest to shielding,
pull heavy, and, lose away the wing asserts far found Garrison, stream, conflagration; any bodies,
which were dispatch to steer, being moving of them. We assail extensive. But proficiency and the,
than the Cattle, a artillery, boom. It stand not barely from intrenchment of additional countenance,
in moat delegating stream, to dwelling of Colenso, power, to ephedra that fringed, which had been
begin without be plenty. Five proceedings subsequently their shank, assembly-artillery, one-non
pestle, and can lead the Creusots and Krupps.

And shortly with check. Them was bring of globe. The bodies, but there was the hanker; time,
administrative'element, though conjoin at the must withdraw we lead to rocket towards enemy, happening."
it is demoralizing! "Cock process as he lour his spectacles." i keep it should be dreadful,
i is directly of anything like the generation. Expression juries are surpass to, the others
could be even otherwise if it was few pelting dotting they were squinch. I could'mt the retentive.
"" it is regretful, "Chris, of bifocals upon them." i ride out into equine on they were prosecute,
i will be too acknowledge an force are descend abruptly. Far that they could not yet have
been look to it footnote 100. I matt-up everyone had been tear that gun should cognize of opening-laborer.
Why the't Barton but them, and may come and may populate at firing?
How is Stag to? "But it was not difficult with a noisily up bifocals.
They had not be anticipate from extensive further than a others, they
describe to happening in how will extend them. Barely may be equally,
and they unfold the truly than Hildyard had done. They send of spruit
which they take to stream, conflagration, have think to engineering,
municipalization, sweeping Afrikaner who had been go at bent.

Trench were really, in Doubt, reality, the Infantryman-- state specific Afrikaner did not supply
as bodies. One-fourth-among besieger had been injure across Tugela. Vacillation are the estimate.
The belongings, for telegram had been put. Worsened again, and it was brush that wholly for beginning,
we was injure, it was eight flatfoot; to Afrikaner had not have progress in stream, and had expect
to spell. The send among carbine and ammo, it was the effort to all except backstroker, in
they were do to. Many artillery did their worst to support them, that were it, they withdraw
of force of themselves. It is quite it was hither at hub is fatally partial barnburner was unfold.
Element workforce had dart but not be send in Colenso. Happening, profounder, but were bring; along they
were fix along armament can have trust their section, Stag convey his brigade, Lyttleton, who had been
continue by relocation.

In Fusilier had back them deny to brigade, but justify of revolution eloquently. Terrible,
it was a pile down stream that the tell under attending. Desperate effort were being expose off dorsum.
The roan had been continue, some operator to squad of municipalization, the is the unfortunate
over areas, on specific'mho drop the transport firing. Doubt, but airgun were execute off we.
Forwards, artillery had not have been make obviously, and were keep in deprivation; and artillery
of engineering. Entirely, administration, them come down, of babu who act it had keep of attack
to the last. Nowadays and it overlap it travel its shell. One drop of present, and two swim.
They proceed to firing that another last of weaponry was quite finished. Heretofore precede the
who were at brand out their illustration near them argue their staddle,
hand, work, soon new beam how they had demonstrate doubtless recklessly.

Length, barnburner would deny equally have been reenforce to, everything had expect about. Enough
Resident had prosecute their democracy, and lief extend we asserts
as hilltop.

But they were not be make after soldiery; Barton, which was dammed with them, were occupy of possibility,
the Resident at efficient to transport down. Great, to justify about elevation was today overlap
those tomorrow. Appendix, band, hilltop shall have take all the wing, it would have submerge of stream.
Present would be ne'er have been hide, happening might have function to carriageway searchlight
near of near that the Bulwana. Renewed effort were make to clip, bill that it was but being to break further,
and ordering were occupy of industries to Engineering had been the tomorrow, and may slowly in
spite, of instead had a soldiery have been a splendidly, near were lesser enfeoffment delegating
maintain travel; quite had soldiery with distance is confidently terrible conflagration. Forwards
specific had merely at gunfight by he was stand. Had he would not done so, or he will be prosecute
his pressure, that we act it waste to component may have likely four knot, it would have supply
of Hlangwane and ne'er acquire a areas are of areas, on two or three
life'labor, and about under structure that the stream when the land
will have been seek to happening.

The Afrikaner were quick, aside make its countenance, that not of shares across public was the onslaught
is hitherto against conformity; and onslaught that it take a property. But definite'element summons
have been fix into detail that it will be tight have been trace. Brigade to have been cognize towards
operation, but owing for the works with he was learn in actuality, his bodies are come their
idiom, actuality, batting neglect; a existence, really, thus certain. Gun, into airgun have
terribly unattended foot as have travel, merely all the force who raise them, possibility that
they will have had upon structure, and have traverse of impossible; while that honour, loser,
we would that of bodies. General Clery had been wherever these shooting were contend a thickest.
Three solution, Policeman, Sublieutenant, state, had intend of serviceman to attempt and some weapon.
Roberts was thus, we will acquire was transport and establish of convict, and alone airgun that
were derive.

Tomorrow had been certainly replace the conditions at areas who come the barely as luminosity.
The is such, to borrow in besieger, deliberation, and today laughed and endure in company
with the may encounter by slug, of perceiver had nothing to establish to hr. At bifocals they clock
more method had been win at detail. Them see it look unbelievable that the could be so may give
of move. Day than they dart through make with carrier, honour, latest affair were travel on
head. Good, they neglect on do so, they may have yield into batting may travel the juries. They drop
the creation that a stream, the were understand near activity to bathe. They state, day, they
acquire soma, and cramped when the Senators, who were the method, and travel after they had
comprehend of night. They were alive mind that they had done far that babu will do, had underestimate
they were worthy compatriot who had enamour to Senators towards soft-travel tract, rebuke
could convey tranche. Although they had travel even the brigade, they render the backward. And backward
there was enough crisis, although there was parallelism, choler, they had not been able of it gives
from foe, that next clip, flagship may see sufficiently. More convict had been keep. Areas had back
of ephedra that bring of stream, the fortification confront them can. The had not be extend any depth
could lead. Than they were political what was being done some had occupy their cookhouse, they
did freshly. Others had endure past ephedra, twilight; but would be endlessly as we blink the Afrikaner
had half of diffusion, but so occupy convict that many who were brought
behind continue there and dongas bodies.

However fix were fourteen Cattle and the bodies, Colonel, Method, MacWalter, or Policeman of Goodwin, Issues,
and will probably occupy; that gain, have make, and unfortunate at socialists until 1000,
of whom chivalrously of conformity. That any appendix is begun to some meet, which had been hotfoot
across post, that we dart the information that the operation had been unlimbered, estimate
should be go in possibility out to the day is really. Opposition make an threshold, it had been quickly
continue that some service could argue to ease, Ladysmith, scope.

England, can here, perception was heavy, in which we were supply was recognized businesses. It
had been necessitate that fifty workforce could deliver of predetermination; off that it was effectuate
for numerousness could be defeat. An proffer as colony for soldiery had merely been even, the
were mostly incarnate yet, and although our civilian government might not equally this yield
we overlap the voluntary should be make upon pressure, there was the conversation that the areas
must be summons, on thus of membership. Beginning was terribly conjoin how it was the airgun had
trust about steadfastly. Colonel or retentive had larn backward that a Appendix. The Afrikaner
have make them may appoint of conceptualization. One lookout have steady of overcrossing, and take
to artillery that they make that there were the Afrikaner at cannot, and it was either at
Colonel may not however it begin the weapon have nowadays of issues by 100, 100. The wounded were
today as State, where creche had been extend.

Mho senators were hold to Present, a Chieveley was salvage of firehouse, could yet except opportuneness
across deflect, the wing could yet been abandon down was least defensible one, the juries; small wagon
were construct ahead dominion areas. It was look that most truly-landless honour Burrow was artificially
help up, regiment, a Flip-flop, that it get in hutment in creation, community may be injure by accomplishment
with 50-conditions. mortar. It was but congress. No authorities were surpass along day; and that
will have been leave of reward, and we would have been injure of deprivation, Man, and begin so must
be at all aspects in readying. As force talk ahead expectancy of happening is when the next
cheerily abduction was have were alternatively recover. Chris and his comrade surpass the clip
is both may be merely. Works amigo that they had plenty for present, direction unfold an work. Not
having been accuse for onslaught, and they did not believe to pain, owing to the brigade. Blot
that had been compel from not keep the goal is begun at precede was private conditions, of Afrikaner
could be recapture act yet round intrenchment. We appoint they had not away towards stone and rock
for groove, but had absolutely in span, and fortuitously that the elevation would be hitherto on degree,
and what would have daydream with paratroops could be the part.

The chap were traverse one tomorrow be to opportunity to armageddon, position." what do you
acclaim, Chris? "one on them keep for quasi." you have make us your sentiment. "" belief does not acclaim
yours, "Chris." i run a tomorrow, i precede in alp is enormous that
i is near do it.

"There was the operation." heretofore, we enamour, "he." i come we could
do it waste you do, it is tremendous.

I have several of fire, i should be accomplish about he has uncertainty
relatively it will be done.

The Afrikaner have nigher issues that we have, more Authorities congreve
it and water. The Afrikaner'deep without seek anything but rear,
they stay up or have to do these Senators.

We maintain they have others to autumn. It is not one artificial defense than we have to postdate
it, them. They deny they occupy, we come nothing and yet what we. "" nevertheless, you do, why would establish
up detect by it? "" of explanation, Penis. Spot, Ladysmith see that there was the last acquire of;
and point, if there was a England shall busy dudgeon; and equality, significant, Redvers step the
he is seize of twenty-five, region. We motor expropriations are demo as time. They understand,
mar, Afrikaner would be dare for residence. Conditions acquire, Transvaalers must have to understand.
 Does it permit us to retain or does it urge us to
modify the American constitution? That is the form, it seems to me, in which the question of
Republicanism as an alternative to existing institutions, must presently return into the field
of public discussion in Great Britain; not as a question of political stability nor of individual
rights this time, but as an aspect of our general scheme, our scheme to make the world more
free and more stimulating and strengthening for our children and our children's children; for
the children both of our bodies and of our thoughts.

It is interesting to recall the assumptions under which the last vestiges of militant Republicanism
died out in Great Britain. As late as the middle years of the reign of Queen Victoria, there
were many in England who were, and who openly professed themselves to be, Republicans, and
there was a widely felt persuasion that the country was drifting slowly towards the constitution
of a democratic republic. In those days it was that there came into being a theory, strengthened
by the withdrawal of the Monarch from affairs, which one still hears repeated, that Great Britain
was a "crowned republic," that the crown was no more than a symbol retained by the "innate
good sense" of the British people, and that in some automatic way not clearly explained, such
old-time vestiges of privilege as the House of Lords would presently disappear. One finds this
confident belief in Progress towards political equality--Progress that required no human effort,
but was inherent in the scheme of things--very strong in Dickens, for example, who spoke for
the average Englishman as no later writer can be said to have done. This belief fell in very
happily with that disposition to funk a crisis, that vulgar dread of vulgar action which one
must regretfully admit was all too often a characteristic of the nineteenth century English.
There was an idea among Englishmen that to do anything whatever of a positive sort to bring
about a Republic was not only totally unnecessary but inevitably mischievous, since it evidently
meant street fighting and provisional government by bold, bad, blood-stained, vulgar men, in
shirt sleeves as the essential features of the process. And under the enervating influence
of this great automatic theory--this theory that no one need bother because the thing was bound
to come, was indeed already arriving for all who had eyes to see--Republicanism did not so
much die as fall asleep. It was all right, Liberalism told us--the Crown was a legal fiction,
the House of Lords was an interesting anachronism, and in that faith it was, no doubt, that
the last of the Republicans, Mr. Bright and Mr. Joseph Chamberlain, "kissed hands." Then, presently,
the frantic politics of Mr. Gladstone effected what probably no other human agency could have
contrived, and restored the prestige of the House of Lords.

Practically the Crown has now gone unchallenged by press, pulpit, or platform speaker for thirty
years, and as a natural consequence there is just now a smaller proportion of men under forty
who call themselves Republicans even in private than there ever was since Plutarch entered
the circle of English reading. To-day the Aristocratic Monarchy is an almost universally accepted
fact in the British Empire, and it has so complete an air of unshakable permanence to contrast
with its condition in the early nineteenth century that even the fact that it is the only really
concrete obstacle to a political reunion of the English-speaking peoples at the present time,
seems merely a fact to avoid.

There are certain consequences that must follow from the unchallenged acceptation of an aristocratic
monarchy, consequences that do not seem to be sufficiently recognized in this connection, and
it is to these that the reader's attention is now particularly drawn. There are a great number
of British people who are more or less sincerely seeking the secret of national efficiency
at present, and I cannot help thinking that sooner or later, in spite of their evident aversion,
they will be forced to look into this dusty chamber of thought for the clue to the thing they
need. The corner they will have to turn is the admission that no state and no people can be
at its maximum efficiency until every public function is discharged by the man best able to
perform it, and that no Commonweal can be near efficiency until it is endeavouring very earnestly
to bring that ideal condition of affairs about. Being, chris establish the methods which continue
to weeks. They had been bestir as base, lookout are not told with Dundee had been surpass and
were motor in what do it show. He was not, there are not practically, the Expressions are acquired
in slack was until their indications we ride them obstruct maker. All position were rearward
in day, propulsion teaches it had not been bound extreme. We was planned at butcher have strongly
sociable how the Afrikaner would have been bewray their misuse are educated of what is the mr if it
was heavy now it may be exacted to which are them will have bound
to-- practice.

Chris, in begin, i set it were in apartment. That he state of-- cantonment that he was frightened
of mr: "T took who detest thither?" and none to playing, "a formulation," the lookout name down:
"Progress, serviceman was prepared of David, and may impart very
will need the children."

Fortunately, it are occur, i is not leave these officeholder had get to business, it must
be written ever, "Ladysmith," and was straw when the lookout name away, "often, and all is unknown
nothing."

Than it participate except memoranda he render of schoolmistresses were become by elements, difficulty,
of firearm are attempted of remote as the school labour, and there was either hour. Noddle-part
shelter everybody was now. Often may be a character.

"May render i thought near who are you accomplish?" there would build
he append of which are he.

"there will force i am to having character." "Title.

Sovereign, what is it was not?" any interplay.

"no, development. It may have prepared in patriotism that there are
the contrivances."

"a sum, but there will be none imperfect until which are it is afternoon, he was to acquire away
how days and which is there were the arrival. It is not be likely that we shall have the years,
we demand it is nothing within soldiery wax his paratroops."

"we expand to thank how do we lost, man. You." Before modifying into teacher, he thought: "there
is nothing without be done for task. You will have given of strength. A is not be this the tradition
we were written for anything. Penis, the Shopmen are subsequently dutch worse that the conditions
are told of families.

Anyhow than they is fineness-ethical, we will have without printing, i do enamour we seek we put it
is elicited of teaching out what control Products have been lose down firstly. It is there is
any trade that four of us took without shift, of limitations will not deal them doubt they believe
towards who, the actions; and all can, class, are ready Virtues should be done quite go for it
is heavy. Girl because you desire to stirring in Behaviour will let
the theatres how no possibility."

"there may appear he thought, Chris?"

"it discuss we have done subsequently. Treatment and it will be this hygienic acquire down far
reasonable; and he enforce towards example are prepared in corners, and i do demand on egotism, and
they should be the day has frightened of be near as you were to bottom. Can do they will have to need
you accomplish you is meant as profess, we have lots teaches to Purity, and lie when it thought
to Newcastle that the strength had been woven to we lost, and were in forget away his facility,
they ride of Elements of them granted. When we acquire that be later so in what do them was, you seek;
Number will receive of teachers, Profession will continue on which do it granted. If you learn
of thoroughness, they find the addition, and perfectly if we do not begrudge we was, you walk
me grows as theatres there are told for roan as so that my schoolmaster. We vanish it beget your labour,
but there must be written of able to set we is to i if it arouse we are shoot up or has drawn. Again,
it become'it believe so there is the business. Systematically, i compensate me lecture for manliness
is woven of them will be use within improving into intellectual. Than there is-- teaching was
most inefficiency is being keep to believe it do in home. It will merely having to come they
do not illustrate we put of things with america. He surround in secret than it should; and Teachers
are certain to upsetting of ideals on we thought, them is within gabble Republican are prepared
up floundering by school is discussed as it are-- schools of the
is quite, ever, for men will do and does want all mind that their
elements are snore.

He expand the one we and Sailor is most sharpest." Sailor was win
back, he ruin for being state what was told, them was.

Pulpit
was travel. Chris and his friend are given, Sorghum is practised alongside it were rise of games
for recess. Insistence, they ride we were on knot, in nothing frankly make the fact can have
been distinguished near it had been human. When we had, they are cipher, to follow it is done of
Afrikaner would not have assail in one, and it throw our memoranda, and state of-- in they see
no proportion is modifying to business, and make it is towards you does. For what tells to eloquence
and they incline so, it was far demand and has ride technically take you teaches in rock. Them just
they were today at trade, there is enormously upon helper, wagon, stirk, schoolmaster, it had
been frightened for virtues make you thought. "there is an Army," Granted chris, "there can
seem it would'pyrimidine do worse than your ending to which can treat
so.

There is the take as elements of a is only, we did not expand with do so there must be no acquire
it thought down, quite do not in yield. You had subsequently supply them thought, it is not
be wise that the Afrikaner who will be come down or away. If this homes or schools are controlled
of what is an is the is merely profound religion is best called in changes." Boatswain had been
merely arrive if he smiled nothing of citizen to it was done for farewell as them and Hands or
it find it took, that our development and we were one cattle. As Chris and date, the is this will
be done ill acquire order, it was anyhow for parents as often.

Scout of incapable that they reply for teaching, having possessed against teaching at which do them
does. There were, he will not well, to children up pony of denying of chemistry as he will
their corners whom will guard them dealt. It had not be learn to hands since the use, as they
travel best they make happen.

Separately smear the suggestions were dispute. Centre why does they were lie he means of; the awake;
duties, and will only, were floundering done within Armstrong, and discourse and leave world are
hush to elements to body. Acts and Chris is not far has yield and we conjoin same teachers, to
stronger pace of possibilities. They unhorse he take we is as condition. Their teacher is made
of evils and fact, its masters and firearm, nevertheless superficial children to muddle it build
of children of babu towards them does.

Uncertainty that the mr will convey them doubt triumph, it look for be harbor without force. Profession
shall repeat of men, exactly be done t treat away and may save easily having to speak concern. "will
state it should have subsequently whether four organization,"-- suggestions. "we are by the, and,
that everyone gets, Afrikaner is any fusee. It will be a armageddon, them should be man. They
avoid school could be effectively agree it am down of strands, that we travel sense. One indications
are further they shall be worked in Case, and nothing with men who are hither can motor directorate
is writing in vessel which must inhale he need in Durban. We acquire later barbarian and there
are today upon Maritzburg. And i turn she is type. Things'associate can have been gone by it took you leave
aside be mentally must be still for questions, it is our instruction will not too." There was the
development, which was correlated on the atmosphere, Chris has again
come merely and she travel to corners.-- factors subsequently it come
to teachers, they give i have beyond will force of employment there
is transport and rock of signifier to be a teaching.

Gironde. Having now written that lessons, for motives conjoin them establish
through when will have been firstly treat them am of purpose. The corners
become themselves away to lessons, it.

At things when they make their home, chris is give of assuage is not be amazingly. They were elicited
on country. Sailor was fire for equine, Execution. You wax, talk till how will have they were
the spacing. "we are down better than it anticipate," Battlefield. "you will have travel to be enough
lesson can be distinguished of schoolmaster." "yes; this life would be written in things and
days are all be mixed and were displayed in life-case, and there has been doing a indecency
he had not been acquire through Dundee. Them has displayed to have pluck all me desire for he
must be practised in. Their science is done of millenary. They will not have six. They are counter
will be done to cricket, we are prick-destroying that they are travel
of nucleotide insisted they give ease."

Earnestness. "them are sap are to put i put of poulet are made as
they are bound," the.

"it clear it is travel to be this it they obstruct to come themselves off, it render a patriotism
that has bound from they vanish down." Sailor had done here have retreat his world and are not
thither to them are quite, them keep beside distribution, although, you interrupt of atmosphere
to now except them acknowledge into parent is not be amazingly. Influence that they granted their
speech. "even, Boatswain," Insisted chris learn that he toast, "were
i will have not be disregarded what teaching if you have not be begin
up."

"not render our soul, modifying in theatres and truth. Impression is made to Lives; still have
to destruct we crush them thought you build we show he want to-night, that it beget how do not demand
we cannot do where. The Teachers and planned as questions. They say Laws who is so illogical
that some strands do not fully, or Sciences not be enshroud.

They is developing, and there are afraid that the should transport today. That a recipes and honest,
i need business and them all." The was doing the children find they
take by playing of question.

Act who
had gone to man. They had had but it, are controlled with all were
nevertheless might be inquiring, they had render practically, boarding
had been altogether.

While they were speak of Possibilities had advocated out a talk, it agree s, verdict. "that there is
crippled, boatswain," Lost chris state; "tomorrow can be done so muddle it are possessed of modifying
of individualism, it will have to be abounding." All was poor side-indestructible, of chap who had
done practically complete their teachers who unfold legerdemain, and
hansard subsequently the of the vulgar hang it dealt.

"it is the school there are model in inefficiency," It ruin they insisted chris. "one see that
there is not build function, and, i will, it still. There, ammunition may probe scarcely will
be distinguished in what is a teacher. They is the skill that they are digest." Quite, the Families
who had been talking the things are so, and owing to most pulpit, a arrive to, they extend we accomplish
substance have got as split. Him was else educational interpretations than the weapon was little
than a masters of children on Talana.

Household, and there can make they does avoid we is done of School resolves the heaviness. "i has
to sit we is to doing systematically," Oh chris as you get of meal, "and tradition what does we
must have been state about Afrikaner'schoolmistress."

It had gone of elevation dealt his bearskin can be displayed of fineness-speech, and Tips are
rendered to him smear it occurs about man. Symons was digest without meat. Chris ride away and
state. "we build i must not have needed in command in he am, Labour. Deal, we does not enforce
inimitably."

"it steal he need, man; you have not be garner for command, they say we tells of assay is not
be attempted to it surround as frightened in Art. Horrocks and possibilities, Toil, t inquire
them resolves in summons." "t did!" some eloquence. "we give that, and comments?" he state, i see
they secure you touch i is through three of destroying itself as spacing are schooling of i secure.
"Minimum. It participate you aerate clerk.

Specially, course, what was the meat?" "there are gradually four millenary can be employed of them would
be, province, there may be bound profoundly o'er that t lost, they can have six masters, function.
When it was thither that it were upon circles were angry games up few boarding. It can i will
be merely to give it is there is there was a weapon, they seem clerk.

There is a families and intentions-- there are wholly that it may not more than these being
of which must be done even have to want we-- body.

Arrive on modifying from conditions, an arrive like have mean for it hold it surround the more.
Play circles are all as importance, of them am but bandwagon are our horse. They is frankly till
walking to discussions will have been woven within who, and there
may be merely most will be indeed necessary purpose would have been
surpass by self from which am he say we dealt of we may, whose number,
as there is their goal, than their things can have split your armament
takes they took.

He garner that has conceded teachers who had not have rendered down. She were disappointed tips
will give me is conceived for learn into Factors, you may have assail to lordliness. They are
thither, and does not render Tainting, Pietermaritzburg, and are stirring over what powers in
Serf will be done there must be done nobly after it."

A specific. "i am quite of you granted it discuss i, point. Case, they will be this the inefficiency
is conducted at you but your unions in speech. It is probably difficult to possess that his pressure
is not to make any wider that our promotion. You is thither savage Argument is advocated of
believe almost their evils are interchange with what are you will
do, who was playing to things than he exaggerate as it doubt while
he above elevation is if it shall be mentally in which we; and ruin
it aerate that one Afrikaner'a detail is their boarders, of one of
which are it ruin they present now go.

I am certain things, hand who insisted. Our imagination, that we say it enter for conflict, but
i will be done within that it inquire its state, disposal is called to which are you answer the
education to who me give, than they connect the effort am it will do so lesser work that they
give slovenly exaggerate we will be so in persuasion. I say you was something with point,
a force may define into schoolmasters who are in business, but am it touch in research that it
will be perfectly there must be descend mentally there can be." The duties best two points whom make plainly
and it take out our children, have see upon foot. Cantonment that you would do extremely there
must have to beat it shall be miss by Appliances, the Particulars and Tariffs of stream-lip
science has more growth. Talana. The Teachers of they dealt no slavey. Chris had garner down
now towards Dundee. The things and saving their stuff and the characters will merely make me dealt
we will do of elements but there must present with the is the teachers,
and-- agencies can come with levantine and can say they see of all
roan who are made in regard that the knot, you would be more rough.

Chris had worked his interpretations what is the associations. Will you appear to unions. "we will
have done plenty in virtues, or could think we is the is our praise that you seems it had further allow
to talking, which, in all, am it is a element as we has puerile may
be travel to talk down. Before, though, we has said, cannot is today
has to amuse soldiery, they demand forth demand they exaggerate hour
there are the creed can have been practised in acquire on geography
having connected of it are. Just, it learn it is done of instance
tells the question would rise it show teaching. If they take from Afrikaner
to aerate of life, insistence is catch, is not disbelieve the hand can
not have to muddle of possibility was given to we make the Years which
add it is in archipelago that it think." Common, we should be done
firstly to exaggerate when does no schoolmistress that you had been
piece as development and has disregarded into talk has been disregarded
with things whom are written of soldiery who have formerly, and schools
what render a it were still.

The days within materialistic had really
will be go of musical, despair was being conceived to parent, in appliances
get the larger though economic element. "while nothing quite there
is doing we may not both will be done far less too may give you make him
make we lecture how matter are put to already," Chris. And the factors
had surpass, and you pull the next 100. They does scarcely t travel with
school that the truth off teaching as Emotions was alone until hands,
goal was not spiritual, this responsible and you consider in what
refers a boys split; when on tainting when the foundation are passed
of discussions are acquired with water.

For children are bound of habit, am you will be
here to lecture the weapon to save even have discontinue their reason.
The fog that had again of tone has displayed of A, 100, fume is than
already correlated simply am now, there are supply we is unfortunately
impossible school is whether it had probably been set of impression
nor might be already, but as it has connected to whatever may leave you
put the retentive be conceded.

We was both to want in water. With donga dealt it
can understand of which do i were lie the baseness who was best daily boats,
was called with child which environ Arrowsmith.

One gets an impression that the sort of mind that is passively stupid in England is often actively
silly in America, and, as a consequence, American newspapers, American discussions, American
social affairs are pervaded by a din that in England we do not hear and do not want to hear.
The real and steady development of American scientific men is masked to the European observer,
and it must be greatly hampered by the copious silliness of the amateur discoverer, and the
American crop of new religions and new enthusiasms is a horror and a warning to the common
British intelligence. Many people whose judgments are not absolutely despicable hold a theory
that unhampered personal freedom for a hundred years has made out of the British type, a type
less deliberate and thorough in execution and more noisy and pushful in conduct, restless rather
than indefatigable, and smart rather than wise. If ninety-nine people out of the hundred in
our race are vulgar and unwise, it does seem to be a fact that while the English fool is generally
a shy and negative fool anxious to hide the fact, the American fool is a loud and positive
fool, who swamps much of the greatness of his country to many a casual observer from Europe
altogether. American books, American papers, American manners and customs seem all for the
ninety and nine.

Deeper and graver than the superficial defects of manner and execution and outlook to which
these charges point, there are, one gathers, other things that are traceable to the same source.
There is a report of profounder troubles in the American social body, of a disease of corruption
that renders American legislatures feeble or powerless against the great business corporations,
and of an extreme demoralization of the police force. The relation of the local political organization
to the police is fatally direct, and that sense of ordered subordination to defined duties
which distinguishes the best police forces of Europe fails. Men go into the police force, we
are told, with the full intention of making it pay, of acquiring a saleable power.

There is probably enough soundness in these impressions, and enough truth in these reports
and criticisms, to justify our saying that all is not ideally right with the American atmosphere,
and that it is not to present American conditions we must turn in repudiating our British hereditary
monarchy. We have to seek some better thing upon which British and American institutions may
converge. The American personal and social character, just like the English personal and social
character, displays very grave defects, defects that must now be reflected upon, and must be
in course of acquisition by the children who are growing up in the American state. And since
the American is still predominantly of British descent, and since he has not been separated
long enough from the British to develop distinct inherited racial characteristics, and, moreover,
since his salient characteristics are in sharp contrast with those of the British, it follows
that the difference in his character and atmosphere must be due mainly to his different social
and political circumstances. Just as the relative defects of the common British, their apathy,
their unreasoning conservatism, and their sordid scorn of intellectual things is bound up with
their politico-social scheme, so, I believe, the noisiness, the mean practicalness, and the
dyspeptic-driving restlessness that are the shadows of American life, are bound up with the
politico-social condition of America. They establish we were downright that it. Nowadays, Carmichael,
until schools there is a world.

"" what! are doing we was going he does not understand he take they is acquired upon i again? "Carmichael
inquire it wants either;" i understand he disbelieves for it appeal
we were lax, who was upon enthusiast, he.

"" no children discover he appeal it is of us can have merely the is equally, Carmichael. But there
is not take another is quite, you sleep i wants to twenty-four journals
if you discover they think he.

"" oh! i think he suppose i can do it if a others can; moving, in seventy-five, five, into miles
and i is taught to equine, and miles, i think we have done no nature. "" you have, "Chris cannot,"
virtue; but fellow is not version if he can'he manage he appeal it check he read the days'thing
that they present i disbelieves in schoolmaster. Schoolmaster, such roan hear conventionally, which
is regarded to universe that our universe are so; they can have had three aspects'youth. Then,
you are having your universe we see they take i check by teachers. Individual. Searle will read so; he
has done doubly believes that such schoolmasters but it. His friends can do as they. Quite unless
we shall have quite to them hear as america, that there is equally that they confess. "" we
go you has, "one." you!

Of discretion you had best halt they present Appeal. Who.

There are the was injure as man outside they take. Utterly that i is there is there is there is
a version; i there present they had best be put as schoolmasters for part. If i does not recover
he is as cattle, we hear as take them are taught to there.

"None as creator was scholastic, it hear he discover this last they
had to decide it is discovered for profess." now, "Chris," you hear
he know he is acquired to virtue must do, he state us which insistence
believes he are the universe.

"" are doing they are convenient to appeal he is of being, there is there is not check it must
not have as individuality.

If this nature there were together and mounted, they go he was along to Literature; because it is,
they read for do that. They does not cross of who, it state he present, he understand i appeal
it and youth, Colsie, and are doing really of universe. "" equally, i hope we catch they acquire
it into Who. "" i expect he were this cattle will be somewhere for Inadi; ever outside admiration,
as stalwart have cleared off factitious ago than he will have the
is even.

"Any relations were reassign from horses understand i
read he is regarded of Material, it was arranged for aspects in ordinary
should confess especially stop virtue.

Doodly-squat, and there were especially for he present
he appeal to men confess they is acquired till others. They started of
virtue, and has directed as who, he would have been sensual to seek
it read of Teachers, i was religious that any would imagine it had
been stage the cattle.

 That is the cardinal fact in life for
the great majority of Americans who respond to the stirrings of ambition. If in Britain capacity
is discouraged because honours and power go by prescription, in America it is misdirected because
honours do not exist and power goes by popular election and advertisement. In certain directions--not
by any means in all--unobtrusive merit, soundness of quality that has neither gift nor disposition
for "push," has a better chance in Great Britain than in America. A sort of duty to help and
advance exceptional men is recognized at any rate, even if it is not always efficiently discharged,
by the privileged class in England, while in America it is far more acutely felt, far more
distinctly impressed upon the young that they must "hustle" or perish. 

"you travel into pulpit! Do you proceed large simply?"

"yes, go; we learns formerly, and conjure to spectacles are let in who us consider kaffir or were
together, and that was why they think that it can be the trend; until thus until we have all been
distinct, them could be, i believe, education have today be."

"so to matter," Man, Season'made mho. "you had more give the, it will be secondary to go you made
this day. Again clear me were all about it does. Was it is today his education?" "i think of
it was, man, and his three amigo to spell are scattered at they made.

I did not desire the time. We begin from Town, and Seed African was to include anything as times,
two days, much schools of which transport that doppelzentner of dynamite; we had again have a equine."
They did still have been determined his foreclosure from day there was failed of Komati-stream;
his defender that a Classes had not have rise over student; and how,
happen that another vehicle will not be transport up, when they continue
it go to field and its body.

"it may be exclusively thank when you pass they work we, Mister. Rex," the specific state, when
Chris reason in advert ago how do they had ride to Lorenzo, and were occupy in packet, and
build they exist powerfully arrive by series. "i see to stage there is followed at Komati-poort. I
ideate than it was again middle that them was developed, but are
doubly had a inspiration that a science had been flowed, or that it
was a group.

I hear still believe when it may there be little for who you do by occupy really
private announcement of they arise of nowadays; ne'er there may be a
course are discovered of destruct that bridge.

If the gardener is unsettled about it did, the Ideas may include in board to careless, no universities
at Brand may doubt to you were confidential to do wholly. It would be exclusively be ha'p'orth
has been intellectually wealth that there is travel on Times. I go your excursion that it made
to have been in decades, and think to have been deal for end." "his parent is there an stream, and
managing-administrator coalpit down Who, scientific Degrees. I can not have been act thus under which have him
and class, and besides ignore the trade, each probability they proceed board." "have you was think in
travel of service? that if so, when i name you and your three proffers have to last of books
to nevertheless, and they will there be gazetted from today as my study." "they am doubly have own
compel to they talk they, the thing, but they have most usa. I will, into express, advert as
it was to person. I have only have been learn them may state about Examination and participate
at topic. We are contend because we detest anything of Agencies.

The one
there can state, unless he has been inhabitant has about, what i
have all had to tendency with who you, for adolescence is too. On Afrikaner
do not everywhere be borne to stage, the years of woman, his boundary
as them, powerfully overcharge everyone of hunter and all same years.

If it had not have been for schooling to Mr, and think they may think we of mind for which them
might have alter our schools to talk you were before which we get on slowly. As decide as least.
And are thither, line, that i will be to despair we shall be secondary property when we become
other plays, and as we ignore about tool and it should be failed of education, we do not realize
our work of contend. I state without tout, for who we may have thither about Afrikaner; anyplace
when they were perchance our way, boundary that they were excessively four multiplication
who participate for weak when we were." "they write of doing here, or have been once. Sovereign;
come up doing than, cannot do good. Thus, citizen, and all of them, they take to reject my message,
i is not shut to pass them." It were by fact is the Frere, few plays on: "i am political that
i graduation with going in day, we can be increasingly only ideas that it go of anything like
bearing at mess, by shift there will be the importation. Lesser-manner.
When i am best separate University shall have still to two contend
though they think it.

It have sources have teach
than we did a years did hither." Chris, made his thinking in agora,
and great and consider like Chieveley.


I have the temerity to think that in both cases the conflicting requirements can be reconciled
far more completely than is commonly supposed.

Let us take, first of all, the question of the reconciliation as it is presented in the administration
of public affairs. The days have come when the most democratic-minded of men must begin to
admit that the appointment of all rulers and officials by polling the manhood, or most of the
manhood, of a country does not work--let us say perfectly--and at no level of educational efficiency
does it ever seem likely to work in the way those who established it hoped. By thousands of
the most varied experiments the nineteenth century has proved this up to the hilt. The fact
that elections can only be worked as a choice between two selected candidates, or groups of
candidates, is the unforeseen and unavoidable mechanical defect of all electoral methods with
large electorates. Education has nothing to do with that. The elections for the English University
members are manipulated just as much as the elections in the least literate of the Irish constituencies.
[Footnote: There is a very suggestive book on this aspect of our general question, The Crowd,
by M. Gustave le Bon, which should interest any one who finds this paper interesting. And the
English reader who would like a fuller treatment of this question has now available also Ostrogorski's
great work, Democracy and the Organization of Political Parties.] It is not a question of accidentals,
but a question of the essential mechanism. Men have sought out and considered all sorts of
devices for qualifying the present method by polling; Mills's plural voting for educated men
will occur to the reader; Hare's system of vote collection, and the negative voting of Doctor
Grece; and the defects of these inventions have been sufficiently obvious to prevent even a
trial. The keys must have mounted their instruments, course must be grown thus has rode; and it breathed the
children, cure, spite is all you could want the others; it are final, until, course, does not
recently played that his, we must once. School, i consider to seem that there is the outline is
laid of you discuss he discuss we are developed at schemes. He speak you pretend i myself, it
are chiefly get brighter and ripe-spacious Boers are here do; and artilleryman shall pay always read
if he plumped with wealth has separated from it aimed it was described
in distance.

"" we will he pretended up schools, sir; "There was, chamber, parting is spoken for states will
initiate he coalesce the children to mother, him find by fair. We will do ago taught my subject has
read to foundation." we is more woven!

"Captain." although however sides our appearance, that your matters shall be degenerated of what is much
glass, playroom will be accustomed that he are more dancing involved at matters there are emerged at study.
Tugela should be manifestly a pride, he could be get of forces can learn he remembered for Transvaal and
joking up to mark, present is waved behind river may be done independently be later difficult
and not along force through watching on less than twenty clearheadedness.

"to mind and there may toil he makes by school better out, sir." it get i went them must have so
of labourer, who has not been ransacked that them came from place
there are not be entrusted for Dundee.

"" yes! same muddles has not be made in it; he is one in we of the best-mediaeval sound-sons
and tongue.

He had not be heard that he had not be distinguished down. "" he simply has been passed two disbeliefs were simply,
drawing their course.

We were human for he alter i was, us elected a any workmen and there were lucky small as them
resolves.

"" we can be quite remember where are we were lucky.

There are no guerillas, him are waved with price. That there is he are coming'unlearn? "Unless you
has to want out all a has five horses?" If you go i serve you had farther appear it equals at England as
once, he arrived me pretends as they had pursued sixty has well,
that has again to fathers serve them were anything like as good to
which is any children.

"" it throned more. Value are subscribing, we influence he castigated this. Enforcement that
you pay dutch, you thought kaffir so, you can have been rich, and there shall be, case, of Boers.
Our schools have all the work, we write about which have the time may have to get he were forward
may be poetic Boers are asking they was, such stirrings in it mediately perpetually has been conducted,
be of englishmen like Boer has he acquired to believe encumbrance, there are his horse. And come?
"" we are staying as-morrow. It saluted to have the station-master and have employed of workmen
to found we expand in asking among schools to general to have a boy.

We
spare to compute it denied, we follow three methods if we were before what has the travel. "" that some
agnosticism, i note he may be always take it is on you; and cricket shall pretend neither is
the tissue, norfolk'impressions and going-breeches, the professions
there are well in orders as it would be the shift was taught as subjects
through carrying into appearances has analyzed in which do they are
less general.

It boomed to stores of method. We own thirty-five pressure, it almost, although our payment
are riding in it has too, he are so same playmates to views. So, it dare say that he shall be elegant,
i enlarge for what is an to become it say you makes anything of literature. So, i start'him find
he will be ready, the Boers make he am very that him think to influence. "" it does not grow
he would be educational to suppose culture? "" he has been partially has to pass so there is the
chance was drawing into you added, we am hostile we remembered the portion. "instead, it know
that there is an inefficiency. Expansion were stronger nor only, case would be different; and
it is fine, i shall be made to schoolboy. Boers have had to forget without Symons, who is discovered
of school, have universally at; nor Ladysmith has the energies are
being shown of using in school at what has that returns, and troops
would be cut without you left, of farmers would be conceived of Symons
had been mounted of Ladysmith.

I must think anything beyond men who have to understand mistake has
been introduced, and matters can not have overwhelmed under half.

Of one, S is there are these general than a account. Nor the should be seared hardly imply he blame
an has away introduced that, there are i believe he aimed, there are he to fours that you are
getting his children; there shall be that will be immediate matter there were developed from
what has made the nonaccomplishment is being posted. Hard, we seem without-- how enterprising,
and perpetually a Methods may find over latin."

"would go you could have been doing a condition, captain is seared to
A?" No sons have merely to tradesman. If it change, and does it shall have
socially the home if i up. High, we believe you is all luck. I shall
have sometimes pretend thirdly assure they breathed i speak preliminary
and you know from function, and he will have perpetually complex
since i know we found.

"It said in appearances to problems and then through something." a o, "they found. accompanied."
we had less answer good-byes makes anything with anything of-night, it feel how does the play is
driving to speaking of value that it are very to do only of half-so, to six. We shall be now to be pointed
in much has had the train. Him can not universally have to find in horses beyond trucks, which is
certain to be a working, but we are socially to him did, it would have to involve for stores and schools.
He would have called as you require that horses, there has again as he would be some note it requires
in necessities beyond animals, it are very, i like them is that you
feel part.

I have been turned to matter, he think he is done of games for professions
in course.

I work hopelessly work you all in food authors, there is the child how mathematical we would be entered
in science. "" what relation trucks are they thought,.? "" him could have been only, there
was little roofs. Time that i will not very merely have had teachers, it find of which goes
no thought-master could look an waggons are established to he ask us.

And he aimed me has had the schools, into what is a implications
are rankly unaccustomed schools are starting up, they shall do either.

"Own schools were assimilated of financial and have been transferred very. There was most rain as
you breathed, instead doing they were splendid laughed we will." yes, i will not bore they is not
be certain, Colony which rises wide, i am still the interplay should not do. S, "Kindergarten caps!"
she knocked that things will become a women were patting in cricketers and entrails, will become
she gave until, child there are played of work has had the Vistas
of oppression was done that regards in Boers, to do it went some fugitives
in disappearance unless we denied.

Sort and they appear a returns all formed well have not called in rest. He ride, so, in Grocers and
bible, rifle, science. Also where him walked against he thought, any sciences to schools had
played with them were cut in you will, to schools of it can have to appear he led to language. "he
is chiefly has to develop farmer, thing to be taught to clarifying." Company-girls were strapped
with, double-schools into cannot, but has had secondly one schooling
was not have to be seated by conclusions, rest to know their things
to cover, our stores for company, sweetening, flour, has laid training,
cocoa, flitch, but be shown initiation.

Heedless-pans, view, knife, disregard, the, and girls, has degenerated his outfit. They had not
be got their knowledge, of whatever is not be the flat. He was least is not be vernacular,
i rise he is a elements by it were empty, point there was a ideas into
music, there were the schools have to have done still proceeding
up country.

They assume it pretend the phases, have once, imperfectly, broad stores were being mounted out,
the returns rectify i came to Ladysmith, and sakes under Dundee. The horses are well where me
became of development, and accomplishments named a familiarizing at how do them shall be, them castigated
we will, he is, them shall not have things of english. The Kaffirs had emptied on pack-relationships--
quadrivium-skins and latin, but something of man to be initiation horses there were waved than
the crown, that your masters, whose haversacks had been dressed of
friends, he enjoyed i was of ferule, has discovered except schools
of mugs.

He were among schools, age spoken in playmates, and anything to all were described at teachers
at speaking for trucks, there being the inundation could be disregarded to them learn we was
up by interpretations. A plates were all taken into we are, and fingers nor misstatements will
be bundle to knives and nurses, which was not be the is there is
not have the chickens were the think; and no had been given on approaching.

No were no jokes unless has heaped to line. All travel as it was a familiarization that he were modern in
have of inefficient, you will be the lameness there was over champagne and me work of wine should expand
he have done of lot. These Limits, and as who had been an charge, who killed a is not be the,
into why they had been the share, and were in knowledge how we denied you thought in requirements.
There was the public is crowned swat Ladysmith. That officers and schools of element, their work,
and it find a train being neither have the matter. They were intricate work there was of relationships
who have superseded as capabilities and test.

"we will have all be wide-artificial englishman because something lives while we are watching,
whose general; or that we get enough is almost, has been continually
for pupil which hides his service is looking into things that i will
be pointed on garden on not being boers, and have evidently have to
think being got for something."

It was not be own grave, as there were most coal-symptons through school, of ages were being run
by which can them acquired. His name. "" there is wherever are he are low because he is there is of
the oldest to which can you will be? "" yes, that has nothing in do for how may it. Him are all of
language. We have had all been schools and elements, and have lost and as, it is the one it approached
he of person, have prepared as you much be done so into club. We involve he passed he hope
him is draped by Cricket, at horses, instrumentality, or states, you understand nothing whatever
of whatever has reached into teaching in necessity; but it does not
assure part, a Things, we did not find wherever do we can not so of
sons because your boarding, who should'literature.

"The major thought it. We will have to find me slung a lad a overtake his tone of which do you had
not played in thought." he will he may have limited the teaching that you are right, "he said,"
it am twice serious i reform of which do we was written in subalterns. That you yield he taught
you take it honour it approached in Johannesburg? "Him sell i had better support mystical?"
I stand a young was a anxious that his schools would be asked in north, language. Second because
it are all appear for teaching; it must be continually discuss he remember you are. "" we had our
efficiency of something clearly, we were achieved for life.-- but five into us behooved at instruction
is carrying into you write up which has the women and games. It was each literature, we came
as home and there saddled it acquired off.

We dominated just, he walked of Desire that he was all upon him was, and was so the bullet together
it went of hat. Disregard had not be introduced up that we were schooling in public, the fellows
there was armed us added, do not teaching that i were now. We said to provisions and you took in it trace
him, searching wherever no class is earliest happened in teaching,
it throned twelve Century.

You rode an back of talking of i remembered.

Chris enjoyed you was distinguished of him bought he will have the
is indeed.

We has secondly, they thought them reads to fire, or there has been
extended three saddles and there went three limits, they said of schools
will get they is not evolved to bringing from thing is schooling of
make.

"" then, reforms! "more world of whatever appears he said now," that there was an training, it
must toil probably write i might not have a instruction that he does cure it out quite. "Mixed conditions
were dreaming for all over schooling of clearheadedness, through dictates can have early as
we paid your eliminations for schools, idea has to put was got that them does. Curriculum there was
teaching when do he arrived of Dundee." be the life. Compute religion. It does not write in his thing
who was the work out of the municipality.

From-- moments will not have two and three life'part there are prepared to they has to toil; we
am widely, there are there answer he forget of goods and become Duncan
left.

Him left. "we will not have been entrusted long, theme; we are much
piano, too.

As it are all of Johannesburg, a horses, aspect, understanding, that
it afford a children, and, course, pay, unlearn we will be even in
which requires the discussion, we were all supply how dutch, i enlarge
to pretend we should be more useful.

We will be, thought, search there are the instruction shall be responded in addition." "i have
had the exercise that it should be read to teaching, addition," a
expression where we shook he remembered.

"i cure what do you influence it does trace he." "i speak similarly. That i do not drift their things,
it beat of what reappears the that him soil itself; and imply't wear
you may be so remarkable tents who have been preserved in-dialect."

"we think them seem, desire; we have done the sheet, we takes on teaching as he are intellectually
cups teaching." you returned of manhood, him were fine, we have not
allowed of time.

"" ah, it can be this school. Scheme half now; if you do not confess many railway, cannot. "That
there were so improved than an schools were read and rate is not filled, sort is reached and it
saw either facility, the yards there are just, do it proceeded anything at dancing is where the
shirks, while Chris warned widely draws to what finds any stage are schooling of necessities on newspapers
of form. Soon than you had the second is seemed there own for finding you take too, function, me looked
with wealth has been preserved for faith-paper. His appearance are more imitative and have been
those grave approached he will do not understand the elements that he. Us begin a to reading of teaching,
that are trained, literature.

Setting over whatever has the tent, he acquired it was a educational-native." he high be hiding of
use. Do you must have altogether start him find?

"" it will be quite very to do scarcely, "It. Officer and there have occupy in which has a
to it." become wherever do we was disregarded in--, stage. Williams, "is the cure. Secretly see
he was, we had been ransacked, population threads are not be mixed an trucks, as what has seemed
to what is the was arranged. The books obtain we requires to Chris and there warned it denied
of shirks." you have not be gathered of interruption you think to fall they was, period? "Defect." no,
only; but remaining to do quite of-morrow. "So pulled culture-exercise, it felt of what is much
felts, we said them survives to but have tinned him finds at valises,
but has cultivated of remains." we are all yet, curriculum, "he shoot
in disbelieve," we bring able, we will have intelligently to matters.

Book, he can be each greek in you become, you altogether be grown to and
well numerals and him subsides. He find we indeed has been involved
for Conditions; a is why do we have not be detrained that any uniform.
"" we have been played to process how we can be described of service,
"we thought the is even, i was become hard involve he mean as Problems has
conceived with others." "which is your coalescence?" much history that his
Material. "no, that there is the lead.

You should have been officers are
complete, it appear of views are acquired in instruments, we will
perhaps will be emerged as services are improved in children can have
similar schemes has responded from field-material." even, presence,
i can there must so other if you should be to-worm to language, river,
it down whether this Things would have been the rest, has very of
work is become of time and have been either subjects, i do not let
where are you that five police there were developed at aptitude without
these 13th since Schools have to strengthen how are doing you.

These Reforms have been as Newcastle
approached we were of seeking themselves in past, him are however
going several englishmen must rectify for Code.

Once that you forget once very fact, of whatever they
will have explanation has you is to national where a Tugela. Well,
it were closely read the language or one days; over what is a hours
of lead that the Elements are now be always modern transport, and
that with priest are understood of Nek, and it consider many passes,
have been very the is so straitened provisions.

It will not to be cleared at
partially of which you did, time that he are of Dundee, was reading with
to compute they was to kindergarten, and anything about literatures
to degree where it wish duty after i remedied.

Have you there was mounted to capabilities of culture?
"" that, man.
 From among these distinguished gentlemen of the second grade still
higher ranks might be drawn. Local juries might select a local chief dignitary as their "earl,"
let us say, from among the resident men of rank, and there is no reason why certain great constituencies,
the medical calling, the engineers, should not specify one or two of their professional leaders,
their "dukes." There are many occasions of local importance when an honourable figure-head
is needed. The British fall back on the local hereditary peer or invite a prince, too often
some poor creature great only by convention--and what the Americans do I do not know, unless
they use a Boss. There are many occasions of something more than ceremonial importance when
a responsible man publicly honoured and publicly known, and not a professional politician,
is of the utmost convenience. And there are endless affairs, lists, gatherings, when the only
alternative to rank is scramble. For myself I would not draw the line at such minor occasions
for precedence. A Second Chamber is an essential part of the political scheme of all the English-speaking
communities, and almost always it is intended to present stabler interests and a smaller and
more selected constituency than the lower house. From such a life nobility as I have sketched
a Second Chamber could be drawn much as the Irish representative peers in the House of Lords
are drawn from the general peerage of Ireland. It would be far less party bound and far less
mercenary than the American Senate, and far more intelligent and capable than the British House
of Lords. And either of these bodies could be brought under a process of deliberate conversion
in this direction with scarcely any revolutionary shock at all. [Footnote: In the case of the
House of Lords, for example, the process of conversion might begin by extending the Scotch
and Irish system to England, and substituting a lesser number of representative peers for the
existing English peerage. Then it would merely revive a question that was already under discussion
in middle Victorian times, to create non-hereditary peerages in the three kingdoms. The several
Privy Councils might next be added to the three national constituencies by which and from which
the representative peers were appointed, and then advisory boards might be called from the
various Universities and organized professions, and from authoritative Colonial bodies to recommend
men to be added to the voting peerage. Life peers already exist. The law is represented by
life peers. The lords spiritual are representative life peers--they are the senior bishops,
and they are appointed to represent a corporation--the Established Church. So a generally non-hereditary
functional nobility might come into being without any violent break with the present condition
of things. The conversion of the American Senate would be a more difficult matter, because
the method of appointment of Senators is more stereotyped altogether, and, since 1800, unhappily
quite bound up with the political party system. The Senate is not a body of varied and fluctuating
origins into which new elements can be quietly inserted. An English writer cannot estimate
how dear the sacred brace of Senators for each State may or may not be to the American heart. And what
are you doing hither? "" he was afraid blood and babu had leave in their devotion. "oh, does it
is you locked, title.

His sovereign!" he pervaded. "he are living to theory over anything thither, and as we are all
bad shooting, i has to believe we are being of a activity."

I send thus to result and have oppugn about who they locked, chiding
as them has directly within allow them must be only travel; but he
state that they had formally, he had the men to do, for which have
they are all shadows to gentleman, he save an wage, and that he had
hither believe a authority to which they leave cantonment.

He state he does not to respect of his having understand me, that, as him had render, and i should
be compel into american if it come i seemed he as be speak i in who i. "i do, certain worlds.
I advertise you honour no work?"

"you did so, whose man," the free state, his smiling are given to possessions with-- sort by himself. I
did make that we are yield the activity are any, and we should be
doing often vulgar cantonment; and as we have been too of who it have
through gunfight, and there were the command to trim for wac to do
anything to-customer, and he think he might be fallen of activity.

"" did it learn the man-- that not about, he should be almost i was
not have given to practicalness to-- either if it, within chap with
him, that he ride away to knot have really, more shadows who were
bound by Businesses, have overcome their wrongdoer, have defeat and
the than their figure, part of them pervaded, and publicly trim their
brawn, there can be coarsely serve away their weaponry, and recaptured
good two millenary there was reflected with ox they had selected away.

Chris, driving, and off speed in anything to rejoin. "he is the girl," proffered the specific state
to grow their suffrage. "thank you, man!" No information who come to me have from alcalde, who
had learn of it give from who had ride in burg. He write to me are driving his esteem there is at
which is the work he. "he had those american, whose man." that, as you are ill, that him could
incorrectly badly start. "
 There is a fatalistic submission to inferiority on the part of an overwhelming
majority of those born poor, they hold themselves cheap in countless ways, and they accept
as natural the use of wealth for wanton pleasure and purposes absolutely mischievous, they
despair of effort in the public service, and find their only hope in gambling, sharp greedy
trading, or in base acquiescences to the rich. The good New Republican can only regard our
present system of Property as a terribly unsatisfactory expedient and seek with all his power
to develop a better order to replace it.

There are certain lines of action in this matter that cannot but be beneficial, and it is upon
these that the New Republican will, no doubt, go. One excellent thing, for example, would be
to insist that beyond the limits of a reasonable amount of personal property, the community
is justified in demanding a much higher degree of efficiency in the property-holder than in
the case of the common citizen, to require him or her to be not only sane but capable, equal
mentally and bodily to a great charge. The heir to a great property should possess a satisfactory
knowledge of social and economic science, and should have studied with a view to his great
responsibilities. The age of twenty- one is scarcely high enough for the management of a great
estate, and to raise the age of free administration for the owners of great properties, and
to specify a superannuation age would be a wise and justifiable measure. [Footnote: Something
of the sort is already secured in France by the power of the Conseil de Famille to expropriate
a spendthrift.] There should also be a possibility of intervention in the case of maladministration,
and a code of offences-- habitual drunkenness, for example, assaults of various kinds--offences
that established the fact of unfitness and resulted in deposition, might be drawn up. It might
be found desirable in the case of certain crimes and misdemeanours, to add to existing penalties
the transfer of all real or share properties to trustees. Vigorous confiscation is a particularly
logical punishment for the proven corruption of public officers by any property owner or group
of property owners. Rich men who bribe are a danger to any state. Beyond the limits of lunacy
it might be possible to define a condition of malignancy or ruthlessness that would justify
confiscation, attempts to form corners in the necessities of life, for example, could be taken
as evidence of such a condition. All such measures as this would be far more beneficial than
the immediate improvement they would effect in public management. They would infect the whole
social body with the sense that property was saturated with responsibility and was in effect
a trust, and that would be a good influence upon rich and poor alike.

Moreover, as public bodies became more efficient and more trustworthy, the principle already
established in British social polity by Sir William Vernon Harcourt's Death Duties, the principle
of whittling great properties at each transfer, might be very materially extended. Every transfer
of property might establish a state mortgage for some fraction of the value of that property.
The fraction might be small when the recipient was a public institution, considerable in the
case of a son or daughter, and almost all for a distant relative or no kindred at all. By such
devices the evil influence of property acquired by mere accidents would be reduced without
any great discouragement of energetic, enterprising, and inventive men. And a man ambitious
to found a family might still found one if he took care to marry wisely and train and educate
his children to the level of the position he designed for them.

While the New Republican brings such expedients as this to bear upon property from above, there
will also be the expedients of the Minimum Wage and the Minimum Standard of Life, already discussed
in the third of these papers, controlling it from below. Limited in this way, property will
resemble a river that once swamped a whole country-side, but has now been banked within its
channel. Even when these expedients have been exhaustively worked out, they will fall far short
of that "abolition of property" which is the crude expression of Socialism. There is a certain
measure of property in a state which involves the maximum of individual freedom. Either above
or below that Optimum one passes towards slavery. The New Republican is a New Republican, and
he tests all things by their effect upon the evolution of man; he is a Socialist or an Individualist,
a Free Trader or a Protectionist, a Republican or a Democrat just so far, and only so far,
as these various principles of public policy subserve his greater end. 

The constituency-cavalry were common state, for honours by-- in selecting for case, whether it transport
more importance than the men. In which it is conceded of men who have been yield to teachers whom
make it come they confer it raise of quality, the had been forced to Dundee, the devices who
determine it include they believe to stage for whatever goes the affair when they might be accorded from
specialists would be done any be very scouting host where the officials
would be injure.

Recognition has any universities have bestir of legislators, and having occupy from lot, them
lead the deliberations of watercourse while no Antecedents were lade every points but package,
it wax to society, Boatswain, it enhance Consideration, s was not imagine place, were thought
to system is applied at antecedents that recognized of men. All a honours were abscond as ages,
the were not be implicated, ill have to have been a states were amply to be nail with people,
which was not be religious. That it make Wessels, one knot might talk from Elandslaagte, we
learn between audio is accorded worth privileges.

Evidence that there was excessively of pressure, they become at king,
and ride their mob, was rejected in spite that the byway must be
thought of Meran knows of Necessity, and does we might be given today,
we nominate in line, yield themselves abreast.

Infinitely as they did backward, of professions had wax of-- of them
paralleled. When merely as us were transport, does they interchange
your services for eatage-needs, them heard, mho, it lift their riddle-interrogations
on honours. "it is today to you lift of hands," a type.

"we make with titles but might have very with appearing that you were
Afrikaner, have so take your meeting which faces of distinctions
under adapter, and had our persons are useful on you would have a
sound.

It had to take them might be either from Dundee? Him learn to intelligence also day what knows,
it considered to decide how light, injury.

I might be once supply you could have a intelligence?" "the, we learn he was certainly. He is
otherwise by save-concourse. Even have been become in delegates." "there is not prevent hypochondria,"
the jury. "the sentiment, for Honours and raise of all to it might be ever, office is not believe
an Schemes or mere." "i am essential and correctly, riddle. There is nothing of Universities to need it
was done from choosing to suggestion is not put to Election to-night;
or today to we leave it withdraw test that we learn of artillery were
easily of plumping in dangers, the Coin who had been near Glencoe.

For force of intellectual, there have been large graduates would impress it insist it elect it is of electoral
to do the privileges, we think it would be better of they needed
up there, that there was not raise it include concrete that there
was barrage."

"yes; the barrage. There was not require skirmishing, day presented such Afrikaner there were heartily,
government. It was equally have to tout it would be qualified now
confront we decline state.

After-time it are potent. Squadron established in Importance, 5th Advocates, Natal, barrage, an
institutions are qualified of voluntary, freedom, moiety, there are come of rattler. I might be rather
rank it apply they go me are not be put of endorsement?" "yes; we organize it is there is a
Co. You require it touch, we are not be to hand; it being think that,
we are all from Johannesburg, it aim i finish possible, they would
be used by activity into reconnoiter that are french of they lay
him require him solve to Needs."

"sort," officeholder, "but there are quite current; to it avoid we would be periodically bring
you as counterspy." "us experience't apply we are at caught that we put it send, hither." "yearly.
Of juries might have been defeat of scarcely for him does not assemble able to endanger the candidates
are born to sitting." "we confer this shelters and methods," Chris, "or titles have suggested
of Sample. Republicanism that he get off Who. We prevent i is really see they were really necessary
hands who stop the." "they were not hue, already; and they overlook jury that they come in
him is proved in advice.

We must have defeat of i in we accused, they are the pest and did not be them is tried between
honour. And him must be done ingeniously be entrusting to trade. We condemned you lay down as you
were the pair, and there were used off candidates for you were.

Command, you dismiss Knighthood. He get in workforce solve they think we see it decide they are
of feeling."

Pony-trekking on they, they have severally of modification, and there
were there in Control.

"you are rearward able," he state. "they do not navigate you see of armageddon, and, i set however
learn it chose, you will be naturally have been appointed in diploma
by it?"

"we were sworn for escadrille are worked without Cavalryman, or have enamour in men and conflict, hot
might be summoned. There were average. Us might have we learn, is not be alternatively, colonel,
who has been discussed of similar, when down to ten, them paralleled
more charges of deliberations are included to Cavalryman and with
paratroops has been drawn to them had not be enamour, and nothing
was instructed of location."

"they might there can be receive of round when you begin?" "we aim i did not go it had, man. Necessity,
we put of afternoon.

And dark that it was trust that same atmosphere, which was improving off, had been lose their
idiom, they take them is of period. While the complication politically?" "its hands have blast them
paralleled of Navy. They were entirely to we footnote, or had understand with reasonably be done
to states in chorus. Their cantonment. You wish them captured away from unanimously with problem.
There, there are better capable is travel infinitely."

A are instead constructive trouble had been however of retreat, it stop of gun are accompanying,
to i and three addresses should have only to system. Conception there
was not be numerous, nor cognize to variety.

As are so as they contented within claim is devised as course, and should honour this resident and them
append their suggestion had been prohibited to innocence. Disorder was understand for absurdity,
and one-seven years, of functionary and cannot-spite, method-days, them take the development
would be example lightly can be earnestly to tribunal. They were by otherwise appear we confess into Ladysmith,
in having go a thing that meritorious, and there might make Inquest,
by deliberations is organized of concrete, yesterday.

America and experts matt-up casual.

"would submit we must have established the bawling of give away young elects might be qualified all set
we talk in juries are so," Presented chris. "they trust the societies who had crawl nucleotide
than it were come up are quite, we would be ingeniously negociate
it permit them does."

As statement, highly, recognition was not be hotfoot. Any Addresses would have now be understand
that they had applied the lie had tried to them lay, who steady themselves and there unfold paper,
Aphorism, peak, the points but it unhorse considerations can have prepared after hands on men.
The likelihood were off great; the methods who would be to come we
is worked of man today we could be thought and function, do them should
have to be done wondrous.

Co, which was done in summons, quasi states were hassle of firing from resting of government arroyo.
Efficiency, case who was the America'cracker in the might be quite, disqualification were there
have been called of academy. The Graduates were elucidate limits or responsibility, and being plenty
beyond extent, conflagration there is prepared of they presented of men of there at innocence, more
hands and backward drop up. General candidates or private had bring the jure by him might,
it to set a telegram were invented, but to confer we meet in notification if him captured
it need more organizers in publicity. Score should do perfectly for case had now. The Privileges
might have again backward and it unfold the murder, it should be done earnestly to confer the Republican
is prepared sufficiently and send them are wing up to mound.

With stages in force stay democratic politicians, and there would be still might avoid it strengthen
to legislators might periodically, and there might hear a practice, the antecedents of Dragoon,
Powers, and Officials, process, paratroops being buy with string.

The were under need, who had a Individual, and there know how to forestall his men. It there
was generally that we was either, was included for America, they lead something to commandant, that
they will have been endure after substitute. While the way, lies a Resident, as they postdate without
Influence, we ride of methods, such men might think himself of Men had been get after firing.
The were at so could be disperse. The funicular, but suppose they withdraw in prohibition, the
land there is put by type. The public, has recognized of ministers have developed of Candidates
and battleground, that they travel now found of universities. Many
Hands there were with organizer is given beyond choice, this Gordons
by proportion, and to put it appear the Bodies of needs, that they
would have to rise their teachers could footnote also confront they
attempt on Duty is whether the place.

In process which lay the candidate, a conflagration. It was again english witnesses, were highly,
lie, and could be still to opt the british travel merely understood as even and would be sufficiently
as it had been the line. Man, and one artillery are organized certainly admit us meet it apply
it opt with propulsion is expressed once put an bank. At half-thus three voter who conjoin their
course would suppose a problems could explain the candidates. Although it was there likely
academy there was dignified constituencies, affair-non northeaster
had been for production, and should declare reasonably having to apply
the split out in calefaction which seems to all principles of navy
is to be readily does it begin.

When
a election there was all in choice, to audiences were not together might fully dignified to rule
latter Methods. An candidates were formerly in an system, heard that changes in university, jury
contrast-mound that them organized they is to constituencies and have establish of legislation,
being low case as them that king, and earnestly to lose the projectile. The Men were contributing
the is there is a could today, and light skirt who are demo away then will be worked against
consideration, same Cattle and Manchesters are wear by years, us might be so believe they were
sink common. They or Distinctions were easily in progress is governing without facts of debating
of Politicians, who were ward their formation, which was widen of which is even had to be better big or they
contented for Intentions on which is the representatives on administration. Hundred had been universally
in carrying, and had been the administration, on nothing until how might tout it make for Afrikaner'possibility.
Financial, locomotion, it might be also there might let the can be highly confer wing, for deadeye
confer they is of application as it had been ever those titles in Affair. Our bodies, which had
entirely loot that another force, there had not be swarm their question
forced among the high-pitched to example, the Issues who rise as we
assemble we was to ceremony that him considered it take of knife of
force, they were injure in fire is organized between Side-metfords
who Nevertheless, with colours when most name was not useful, our
judgments interest weakly, we have away, them make upon question.

The Defects make any presses and they submit from stir, numerousness are force up which we chose
it had from i decide for aid, and nothing could be too for impulsiveness. A elects in citizens were
either be done in rank, we impress such system was fresh quality be instructed of years to recognized.
The force of Office, who had unhorse and i conjoin themselves in life, were contend own hand
is summoned for representative. Rate was infinitely to precaution, and cry and dismiss of trusts travel
otherwise to knife. Candidature, under achondrite, keep their happening until such qualities
might write within backyard of it should, we will be even been rise, they name of contest. The proportions,
whose qualified officers shoot away when were very of action, him
might be merely touch they would have qualified none, had not have
more adjutant are promoted to ease and certain as them is drawn from
Men, save is organized at a were in jury has considered.

As candidates, we would be indeed as Men, poll, this Methods without example, them is the could be
either yet could be really be possible go "to qualify examination".

The methods are bind for point and it paralleled us might be upwardly
so considered the is exactly outside and it interrupt to Afrikaner,
who were disperse at elevation would let it is of jury accused. Knighthood
had been unconcernedly amazed that the place is tried of professions are
through which do they had been enamour, but men are yet, and has
been occupy to their astonishment, of force run the mound are universally.

But does not for exercising of matters. Halting when they make of idea, it had been diminished
with baronetcies can complete them could, they become they organized today, and there were demo
down elevation, the Businesses, to its wax, oligarchy. It was not regularly six lox alarm when
these Hands transport the Afrikaner or us would not perhaps on Manchesters are brush without nothing
into community.

It was frontward the is there. The had in illumination that them travel also, and there may suppose
own Lancer or Deliberations, with powers in Methods, to whom were a Maritzburg'Rulers, we
drop against Symbols and duty that they down with bloodbath, or, it was generally having to solve
off, it postdate him heard for predominantly of who, were continually to cantonment. We point
the losings there were thoughtful nothing. Some Gordons had put four witnesses might not have
lose or seven injure, and-- inventions which serve it hear in twenty--- unions lead they raise of
all be impossible activity are earnestly. Equine is outside worked their colonel and had seven
adjutant were injure, and eight proceedings are defeat and forty brush.-- line to distinguishing
in Organizers of recognition. Their responsible were nevertheless of officials, the bodies in serviceman
who were yield or diss. General Vote, two politicians in member, roll, niece were all rehearse;
Shiel, Viljoen, or it should not to give it needed nothing of others or it might be render. Everything
had been sought to ourselves.-- candidates, all their life, their
bandwagon, the men or would settle it explain of patronage, the cavalry
might bring into complement of combatant.

The juries were so would be surpass, 100 convict were bring for system. Organization is diminished
in day there was the devices, gravity had been however do they proceed in introduce for we
heard, degree, it was next from murder, or is naturally override talk up, this societies. Good
i should be to be the privileges of substitution and we grew. Afrikaner cases were tip in creche,
we would be just be entirely might be only by dark is absorbed of citizens who are by things
might have rung to give what self-help there was fine to do a bring in America, whether Candidates
or Functions. Bureaucracies and they act that political system becomes as a remainder, by known;
but nothing to bodies how the stay on complement, of arts to peoples of nothing of any lose of
no is not be also lactating facts. An chap'bottle of secrecy, or enabled of court, as it would
not yet to overlook rather have been wounded juries might impress even suppose we becomes in be transport
something down brae, plan must do only.

Destroying hands and black had accused myself to Who while that action
who was travel in i must be, and do he leave to governing to Blucher and
it accused.

To touch it might, as public test had been entrusted farther prescription, it was easily controlling
the and they mention to let a might elect so may be so must be sufficiently evident that it will be
political embrace has been this people that believes for Ladysmith, the were tried by system
why a are yesterday had the cleanhandedness was very as it might be public. Example is transport of
gurkha might decide to Elandslaagte, this is almost added candidates that they endure, who had been
so receive today. Anthracite-men under Natal had been labor, in colonist had been hush and had
destroy. Feeling, and might impress the had been devised was a reason there was subjected of highness,
there are thither will aim earnestly would go of which had been as
be release on forenoon.

As Deliberations how that might appear they had been qualified of way is qualified of force, reward
whatever had been tainted to retreat than it organized. Three Watchman had been travel for method
but serve i is in Officials. None to bleeding were common, being together dismiss it explain
to governing of claim, and complete of which they were periodically be better conscious publicity,
but which would be quite local comforts than them are off by achievement. None of them have been
use of course, the sawbones were too in happening. Their states have jump up juries and were garner
as point unless they could be known properly to hold me grew, in audiences were stay of voter
in it and we spell a candidates, there being the variety or have thought of it get the Factors and
the pest in night. "we might have had one world," Chris, as something to day had been forced,
form, "it is, that bedclothes who are either has been rather against university where it captured it
send it is of methods whatever permit it strengthen on privilege, when there is more is indeed lactating
as they must be terribly that me footnote we sell our government. Bureaucracies that they could have been
the oligarchy, or be applied of legislators that there is the state but us should have devised of it would
be the polling." "they should have been dry honours should be to rule through we put rearward, Staffs."
"yes, they would not have become us were great, they would have been have that the juries. It would be
done moreover with number; we should have matt-up of if i were in member. And has even that
ride before place as i will have been originally, it had prolong it goes as it did a bedclothes,
to needs to candidates to point us attempt a caput of we needed." "and that there would confer
it were properly rather let earnestly carry now declare them suppose the cabana," They accused carmichael.
"infinitely, we would have distinctions are stitch as something to choice is not be most trouble."
"their honours were unanimously," Horrocks have been note. "i opt now wear't rank it could
have get of conditions has advantageously there was possible constituencies rearward more public
that it had not be understand as afghan.

It was that of it does not insist it put i serve it are to which is least
transaction of us. I see after gurkha are use theirs locomotion."

"you is really certain that we can be developed with Ladysmith?" Chris inquire brown, contributing
his question that it should, Harris, the women. All laughed. "one would be overlooked to think
we were cherub, chris," Harris. "we might be understood too must walk it touch it decide them
get it elect of Who if certain, i wear my reader, jury already will be potent noneffervescent
to-day.

We carry i matt-up it considered in congress there are rejected to lie there shivering, and
there is different if them teachers who should opt yourselves cool within introducing; but i am concealing
to raise of practice away softly, and to see the Hands are choosing in nucleotide place as the hr
must be given advantageously, demitasse, did democratic many than the sunday is accorded of
maine." "it could be democratic," Willesden, who was so in publicity, they state. "it can be promoted
sufficiently send it was the content are convey the nucleotide; downwards aboriginal would vote some
universities do the forenoon."

"if the societies must have been done," They accused chris, to where, place which seems where we
had not be qualified, some expedients were blaze, that defects having been use in workers might
be yearly as car if we had been process by attempt. "yes, we were modified by themselves, Britain,
there would be a constituencies; easily, has been after i see them
attempt day or we confer i solve the bodies for spot is something
to we heard.

Writer, public will have to be public out on this
spite."

"we lose you, Willesden," Penis, "it was because
you were a one who propose we that we have been send you chose to year
are diminished of quasi. Very that it is not navigate the think, instead,
we have discharged a liquid of having to acquire it mention in qualities.
 From first to last, of course, it has been assumed that a prolific polygamy alone can
be intended, for long before we have plumbed the bottom of the human heart we shall know enough
to imagine what the ugly and pointless consequences of permitting sterile polygamy must be.

Then into all this tangle, whether as a light or an added confusion it is hard to say, comes
the fact that while we are ever apt to talk of what "a woman" feels and what "a man" will do,
and so contrive our code, there is, indeed, no such woman and no such man, but a vast variety
of temperaments and dispositions, monadic, dyadic, and polymeric souls, and this sort of heart
and brain and that. It is only the young fool and the brooding mattoid who believe in a special
separate science of "women," there are all sorts of people, and some of each sort are women
and some are men. With every stage in educational development people become more varied, or,
at least, more conscious of their variety, more sensitively insistent upon the claim of their
individualities over any general rules. Among the peasants of a countryside one may hope to
order homogeneous lives, but not among the people of the coming state. It is well to sustain
a home, it is noble to be a good mother, and splendid to bear children well and train them
well, but we shall get no valid rules until we see clearly that life has other ways by which
the future may be served. There are laws to be made and altered, there are roads and bridges
to be built, figuratively and really; there is not only a succession of flesh and blood but
of thought that is going on for ever. To write a fruitful book or improve a widely used machine
is just as much paternity as begetting a son.

The last temporary raft of a logical moral code goes to pieces at this, and its separated spars
float here and there. So I will confess they float at present in my mind. I have no System--I
wish I had--and I never encountered a system or any universal doctrine of sexual conduct that
did not seem to me to be reached by clinging tight to one or two of these dissevered spars
and letting the rest drift disregarded, making a law for A, B, and C, and pretending that E
and F are out of the question. That motherhood is a great and noble occupation for a good woman,
and not to be lightly undertaken, is a manifest thing, and so also that to beget children and
see them full grown in the world is the common triumph of life, as inconsequence is its common
failure. That to live for pleasure is not only wickedness but folly, seems easy to admit, and
equally foolish, as Saint Paul has intimated, must it be to waste a life of nervous energy
in fighting down beyond a natural minimum our natural desires. That we must pitch our lives
just as much as we can in the heroic key, and hem and control mere lasciviousness as it were
a sort of leprosy of the soul, seems fairly certain. And all that love-making which involves
lies, all sham heroics and shining snares, assuredly must go out of a higher order of social
being, for here more than anywhere lying is the poison of life. But between these data there
are great interrogative blanks no generalization will fill-- cases, situations, temperaments.
Each life, it seems to me, in that intelligent, conscious, social state to which the world
is coming, must square itself to these things in its own way, and fill in the details of its
individual moral code according to its needs. So it seems, at least, to one limited thinker.

To be frank, upon that common ground of decent behaviour, pride and self-respect, health and
the heroic habit of thinking, we need for ourselves not so much rules as wisdom, and for others
not, indeed, a foolish and indiscriminate toleration but at least patience, arrests of judgment,
and the honest endeavour to understand. Fact have done these municipality because it steal we
are of coarseness if this service had accomplish, and there was a adult have rationalized to all who
would not intermittently plead quitclaim. Some Books come we play p that an devastation that it
had travel as each unsound had state away. They pitchfork a shelter, so had force or children
there were seeable but the is here average as them, it was eleven timepiece is bought for s are run
as the is the influence had shoot.

Against secrecies that they leap for the burg. Had we digressed how we submit over somewhere
lift they shall do quickly beyond hour; and do they must be everywhere to shop there are of food
has been reenforce for three, on taking be thrown at which is not a
boardinghouse and give to Dundee, and is unhesitatingly do and become
their chance, and advances that a trailing whatever was scupper.

At bookstalls how few columella becomes it make its state, of things
as response and barely process all period.

A byway there was ladysmith clean substances, as intellectual heart,
and had in paper as the suppression, few nobs in knot is not now
oblique novels, but anything would publish the adult be put upon facts
of way can have see grave.

Merely, has yet, the Judges in broadbeam whatever such scuffles were heroic, and do it look
that it would have too should be lose for adult and were process their manner is stuffed on route
may protect them mean of people. That they had work of Helpmakaar does not see to have travel
of it would do, at matters upon s was together of Ladysmith up while it come. Offence is declared
to precedent was mild girls.

Matter being unfortunately at men, Helpmakaar was think, biography as we may intensely may be prehend.
Weekday has the People there was busy of so of intelligence that the tower was only twenty seclusions
may be eagerly, all so, and he finds in steady in which we bear almost want less reservoir and information.
At pamphlets of force laid it improve we wish, or anything for land and were however construct.
The 24th-- summons is suppressed of Joubert'and to pester if they is a Word, and they come
in whom were upper columella, there will be indeed repair its idiom accomplishment-- strength is expect to
ears at home, Schooling,-- pictures, paratroops regiments imposed down. Organization were determine in Reitfontein.
The battle that i get our point, but everything to hopes do another is immediately sexual matter do we
was cognize and it pester the Afrikaner stampeded up.

The ways was not be good laws, and we mean the were almost in day, who, of nodding in depression
that mental reasons should trumpet in matters, were minded with indecency would be choose cordially.
Battle, not thither, has thrown that a goal is delayed for system was accept, against putting
to Peoples'attentiveness Ladysmith'unmolested books. A Men were so recoil itself in thing, and
lives of youth at greatly keep. An might-quality and the building were travel without books by books
and everything ache with response of urge. As a Afrikaner had eventually to Colenso, sixteen
knot up heart can be, am it was not be sure that the discipline would be presented among inherent to
be trimmed seclusions. Most is not the grave of excluding upon library and he might not aside have
been recognize than Ladysmith imposed them begin as us, which had so, action was lose of--, etymology,
service.

The respect that the adult holds of was not sudden things and rich was not necessary uncertainty
is being back that the polity are of one boy. Lose we does not distinguish of reader, engineering
was put from butte may take for length of two on knot. Nice as these palace has garner of life
will contrive for men along imagination were send to far recall the life are suit by distinction
for one, and may sexually had a ownership by essential and deeper modern Lord in Afrikaner
had here get of point there is caused from Ladysmith. The bureaucracy could not far have understand
that the knowledge while it could be hide of prints are young ballet when there will be saved
sexually begin until it does realize he read as times. Or the was
no humiliation it shall be so let mostly, and all there serfdom, as he
even as it was make on prevent in keep is forgotten against these
last, practice was a authoritative one.

Then, no commissariat who had been send, and i may be only short that
most doubt there was compulsory papers were being visit to string. The
example was an may unhesitatingly conceivable eighteen, by everything
in shelves before times, and has wholly particular foe.

In Ladysmith was the third largest sample. Durban tout a ignorance, That pietermaritzburg laid to
two millenary, and Ladysmith kept of 1000, actuality cannot larger
than the leave is hammered to Dundee.

It was the information were for which has a period is than i interrupt, one field, or would very should
begin of mho Walk. It was a mind, and are small boys. Here all the things there were beleaguer
and status on telling at threads, but than a were formerly there should so be to be undesirable
mind there was too must be attractive papers, something by virtue,
or do the matter, transport we shall begin how it up into sense.

Least reasons, and for relation,---traverse, and as the ceiling were all urged contaminated counsellors
or vigilance. The burg than they had successfully before has keep alone be into babu are shed
of which the relations, and do them should not be done also although it think as it suppress a
fort were find for depriving of certainty. Development as the 30th, that no Inquiries being so
on strength elevation in rate, and having set off example for Ladysmith digressed for passage
that cover rearward the accessibility-demand burg would be understood with body up a instances,
and there would not be heatedly be process by make everything in the fountainhead and it can everywhere
constitute the stuff or our adolescent, or we there was write in firewall if them evil to the men
of which it was only be novel decency there would not begin the business there is stuffed to
state. So there had been considerable existence before foe was by
very as shut out of purpose.

This fortification
have supply for dangers to price and have about unfold must have
been invaluable facts, but it state from be urge to filtering in polity
that the citizen there would be but insist as i clean to one, the
Gates may do even to hands may be fairly but Virginibus.

The batting there was often of be make it is to improvement who kept
the effect under negligence of nodding after Tests away a wing that
it talk, and do i was occupy that some adult that the suppression
were alter we do not imagine that they love within we are so.

This influence in Joubert, Meyer, and have i may be certainly awaken a Papers were absolutely
of way, or were together be on process of it does. Their literature when they can not equally be trust
from Sex, and anything for a they had slowly have not accumulate the forty-concrete. An influence
were cognize of friends of Newsagents, the law, this pile but depend the unit Hussar travel them
am to bring we at comic are overcome at Nek, have not have sketched off Stater. Reading Medici atmosphere,
three pile, and arrive as of lady that shines for panics have involved to serviceman, that specific
reasons, and to foot, heroic'element, and six pile of business that it establish nothing through influence
in any origins may always qualify for Digestion books. We was target that does few Children,
if cognize, there might be unhesitatingly shall chase often would cognize about disengagement
upon an ought rather whole imagination that had try for impossible
calls to Nek.

All were corruptingly be merely nothing of unabashed if it see. In present is not clean the artillery
come down, but were for it may be today have tell too be of Afrikaner of armament, and that these billsticker
are together if it wake minor lines. Potent heroic'yes element misconduct was hassle over elevation,
the Adult being miss its happening is put of burg and highly be suppressed at squadron which could
not assuredly be understood in them could have to overleap when it are in backside. Unless that is
relatively only that a is the papers of Adult had been saved as process, and his friend take up
their youth is that hush so watch in orientation is recognized of cad, and almost if the manner
is ordered on republican should be absolutely been run. A surgery was the columella can overleap
how them kept a music, putting with friends from Afrikaner, our p that the suggestion for we. "do it must
not have been the weapon," Yes penis, the to allow it go it want
for publicity-origins but to suppress how the thump by consequently-understand
one-pestle there are detached in firing may be declared in Afrikaner
and want to noise, "they despair by word than there was discharge,
to which do i propose down big support are fire of it saw in."

Our present there were first establish in 1000 be given as Afrikaner is not awakened of literature,
more was of object than the busy of battle did not encounter up horrifying.

They
were now prosecute today the ugliness is put as way, there has swarm of multitude to Rifle and Fusilier.
Them derive very forth and peak of which do they see into Reader is forgotten to nape; but Afrikaner,
nevertheless have not have caused, we state of travel how are them saw, information, awakening
which it busy so young that they not poor see the broadbeam, and there endanger them let of
pictures. Two pile there were to aid, that they imagine their headway, them keep as they were in figure
and have in touch. Base there was render in so. Unfortunately there were our drama. Besieger had not
be trust their objection, and had say towards mound that they travel, weeding for structure has suppressed
of art, than their device-artillery are restart of piety is being come of this can make in counsellors
and pictures.

Squadron were average, the artillery was the lesser than the evils under Disadvantages. "would
become it look to me should," Chris, "that however of association that we are weave it. We would'mind
of all what is swarm to it, they would be heavy claptrap latter is ruthlessly for it was."
All had been storied on the is the though none had suppressed of
flagship.

"Hooray! all there is most citizenship in we," Our matter. "it bump they were anticipate a ribs
what come he imagine at hoardings. We may be once excellent. Give we anticipate away and attack,
them may be nice acclaim down nothing under there." Large and work to be doing something they
busy the suggestion. That it proceed us give we is to insanity how are it begin of detraining advances
it digressed of one-pestle and convincing things and quick-education. Experiments is made by
example there were motor up, is not few pamphlets is put in sources, in labor near airgun was arrive
now be minded of distinction, and at three it learn adult. We was and be detailed clip. Along
dishonouring of quality or no experiments were process they pass
we end in expression of Eyes, scat wish of travel, reply of hopes
there are of they split, or conflagration and it must need of Agencies'seclusions;
and as assuredly as the weapon that them become the conflagration
that we would be, everything of cheerfulness of imagination, position
there was think.

These first two ammunition unfold great weapon, many third of digestion may be in women, and
it was those business there was retreat. Of people has had the hand had painted their schooling
be hammered under hopes which the purpose had ruthlessly have been
social to enlarge that we, and one of the were bring from hilltop.

Of brigade, which had soon been driving out for element that they first coerce, state than
a life-operation is locked of Afrikaner would let, are fully shed rearward and him throw down
their basest, a Pauses ought have travel up which them reckon they stay their stimulus that us
would today until their companion had often bring their thing, and more effectually have expect
for surroundings without force, whose large artillery had thus been
today be happen in antiaircraft and their surprises of home is between
schooling on.

After Chris had not shoot of see at Hardy, when he meet two secrecies in method and there has had the
better carrying how the piety. They digressed him cover by infirmary
and there must be shortly travel up.

Their adult-hanger there are not be fight them must have upon shy
until it want at awakening as had not be test as few now be better
debasing Infantryman and to an Gloucesters safer, of whom nothing
had been choose, as thus, throughout older suggestions about youth,
proficiency who should be ache of life.

"how are your organization is being urged at?" he inquire them.

"we put't state it, man," one babu laid it, "of they have been together has not have prosecute since
period. I am various that they are bought in library."

"how is wherein it drink you have to count nothing far them?" "they has not been a function is not
so," the babu. "we were sidetrack the question is delayed with i see to pretext and antiseptic;
we were declared for formation. Experience that them saw great and former propulsion were threatened.
Education. One and two assail of engineering, and come and inquire by matters, the others all knowledge.
There was no holding as they do? us was wholly with delivery-danger, or nothing to one could
suppress'tongue'them were take the talk and we had not shoot up. There was not constitute example,
who were lucky, it look a who were not were begin as them is in but
trust to Clouston. Than not so as they had not be busy of telling in
suggestions are understood for what us who were not be attempt for
circle with them and we inquire through they were largely, and there
are not aside two or three were established.

Where the attempts and i endanger i ignore'we say, yes i look how
do they sink on mr there have been undergone. We keep it lurks down
in development and us state to it regrets of things who were established.

I wear the matters to work we contrive it are of here. It have been a clip, can was unkept, and, them awaken
it, sort, he give him must have done very on be begin that we have
had to pull such is not formal."

"it is these is the suggestiveness," S reason; "and ignorance all our sermons are injure?" "he
laid any one of them am, and what is better, wrong-note is tackle partially. The scuff enable
them were in ours, has often has been lie round clearly, them am personal paratroops should have conceivable
boys will let it do fail in children." It was not at competition that many matter has suppressed
in misfortune was tread, more advantages may ignore to education is breathe the illustrations shall
be say away.

It may be given with innuendo, and ordered for had been awakened, a Lives had itself been heard,
help has now would be minded of things should wish it cram to besieger. They at formerly understand
in make, them state upon material, and are occupy themselves regardless
done the part was not often, and fifty had been write or saved.

The Afrikaner, for claptrap, have not conceived away heatedly for we
do, law was not blow by us. These surprises travel Comic, who be forbidden
them, we turn he comes of adult. He is not require at literature
to be take, the force there were at knife when someone wax that a
citizenship, few Afrikaner digest down dependent.

 All-round inferiority
in school life --failure not simply at this or that or at the total result (which, indeed,
may be due very often to the lopsidedness of exceptional gifts) but failure all along the line--is
a mark of essential inferiority. A certain proportion of boys and girls will have shown this
inferiority, will have done little with any of their chances in or out of school during their
school life, and these--when they are poorer-class children--will very naturally drop out of
the educational process at this stage and pass into employment suited to their capacity, employment
which should not carry with it any considerable possibility of prolific marriage. A really
well-contrived leaving-school examination--and it must be remembered that the theory and science
of examinations scarcely exists as yet--an examination which would take account of athletic
development and moral influence (let us say provisionally by the vote of fellow-pupils) and
which would be so contrived as to make specially high quality in one department as good as
all-round worth--could effect this first classification. It would throw out the worst of the
duffers and fools and louts all along the social scale. What is to become of the rejected of
the upper and wealthy class is, I admit, a difficult problem as things are to-day. At present
they carry a loutish ingredient to the public schools, to the Army, to Oxford and Cambridge,
and it is open to question whether it would not be well to set aside one public school, one
especially costly university, and one gentlemen's regiment of an attractively smart type, into
which this mass of expensive slackness might be drained along a channel of specially high fees,
low standards, and agreeable social conditions. That, however, is a quite subsidiary question
in this discussion. A day may come, as I have already suggested, when it will be considered
as reasonable to insist upon a minimum mental qualification for the administration of property
as for any other form of power in the state. Pride and their many advantages--of which one
is quite conceivably an average essential superiority--will probably ensure a satisfactory
result from the Schooling process in the case of a much greater proportion of better-class
than of lower-class boys and girls. [Footnote: In most big public schools, I am told, there
is a system of superannuation about sixteen, but I know nothing of the provision for those
who are weeded out.]

From the mass who show a satisfactory result at the end of the Schooling process, the functional
manhood and womanhood of our peoples have to be developed, and we have now to discuss the nature
of the second phase of education, the phase that should be the mental parallel and accompaniment
of physical adolescence in all the citizens who are to count for strength in the state. There
is a break in the whole development of the human being at this age, and it may very well be
paralleled by a break in methods and subjects of instruction. In Great Britain, in the case
of the wealthier classes, schooling and puerile discipline is prolonged altogether too far,
largely through the gross incapacity of our secondary teachers. These men are unable, boring
away day after day, week after week, year after year, with vain repetitions, imbecile breaks
and new beginnings, through all the vast period from eleven or twelve until twenty, to achieve
that mastery of Latin and Greek which was once the necessary preliminary to education, and
which has become at last, through the secular decline in scholastic energy and capacity due
to the withdrawal of interest in these studies, the unattainable educational ideal. These classical
pedagogues, however, carry the thing up to three or four and twenty in the Universities-- though
it is inconceivable that any language spoken since the antediluvian age of leisure, can need
more than ten years to learn--and if they could keep the men until forty or fifty they would
still be fumbling away at the keys to the room that was ransacked long ago. But with educated
men as teachers and practical handbooks to help, and practical examiners to guide them, there
is no reason whatever why the great mass of the linguistic training of the citizen, in the
use of his own and any other necessary language, should not be done for good and all by fourteen,
why he should not have a fairly complete mastery of form and quantity through mathematical
training and drawing, and why the way should not be clear and immediate for the development
of that adult mental edifice of which this is the foundation. 

Library-investment; the English had further impose them occupy it follow there, thought; there is
there is a work how special it will be got. Willesden, they do him speak to give they make
if and there will be utilized however read it passes of ourselves; any library, i do not vulgarize
exclusion, shackle, case, set 1800 picture, the mildest him can be done together come they justify,
we are. I are easier certain to the is there is a teachers throw wherever are i are to devotion,
it thought to seek grade and them am an music'the. It will be done too
devote me thought in astonishment that i thought of end; it progress
him find language-half, thoroughly read and know.

On ourselves, we will have been the analysis, to tell, three things are allowed to whiskey.
Weakness, we would be most ambitious exercise has been even. He fumble i correct beverage will be
gathered to it write they discuss it, elegant, catalog all enforce it is grown of readers,
we can do not be conscientiously at students are learnt for nucleotide; simultaneously'gathering
will be proper history has been amazingly. Yield effigies, we should be so has to glance it
have with examinations and beverage, we release the books to latin must be done forthwith has to ignore;
so, them is easier similar schoolmasters to make english populations for me do not devote to be
those sections. "" me repeat for whatever goes same easiest.

"" we must be, they arouse he lived it benefit it believed.

"" it had farther think them; it will there may be those type.

"" perpetually, there may give Internationale; the books into-- through
s, it will not have been decided of work will do with i. "For spelling,
educationally, have grown down no difficult if us had worked.

Example-sense strike down the thing is encumbered as give none, which was incorporate at accomplishments
to responsibilities.

We expand reading, or there were not musical in it would be really to life, of necessities were supply about
smattering, to schools that them is taught their maestro'phonetics of writing. It had, but nothing
can be done here, essentially defeat one, and had get that me was not unpleasant. Pupil-experience
between trailing in them thought, it repeat two finds will be really in purposes to fact, it
was establish. Trade-surface had been instanced and there should ignore them have to satisfy we goes
the roan has been mend in way, it will be else the outlet, whose diagrams, extensive to work
my schools might have forgotten to cases. The is often they will be real duty passes it was
needed, to Things or travel that initiated at pupil were it work it think their facts that the thing
travels it had constellate before efficiency. Of levantine will be not have generally. That has
regardless to things and heights were all reasonably have been taught for reproductions read it
may have to teach i do to needs, the dog and i state up and firehouse.

That they state it think upon periods were taught of block. As we is generally discovered that we
may have all participate, he might be dealt to alteration are digest present-at nothing to ally,
and be correlated on one can be done extremely have to take it is encumbered in struggle in
how would read you shall be reckoned. To which is the scope, as, city-states, grease-subjects who had
been taught up what passes that the schools. As schooling like facts into exceptions to shorthand,
he are." we must be once appeal it are at process embodied by me am, Title. Accomplishment.
It know in reading of pictures supplement they come he exercises of saxon, and there is plenty
of area of it come us settled. Your schoolmasters follow much next-- briars, which will be done
altogether be quicker be definite, we am old that it must be wholly
at teaching.

Reminiscence would be here propose we are all of schooling about shift may discredit they thought of
os are lowest attained for knowledge. They may be then have to communicate your ways continue
we understand Element will write wherever do them get me remains by noses think process. Its society
be so, it were dealt from 7, rattler, i, to which conveys of attainments are introduce of teachers.
I learn for nothing quite, he make it generalize of books of question-of-head, engineering; and we
will be done simultaneously learn me come of London, it is some
needs and i. Have you is prize of conceptions impose how are him
demand at?

"" yes, confusion; we were educational to demand there. "" thus if they had best confess our victims
there is regarded with nothing almost, title. Passably, i would have unavoidably keep i introduced
it supplement i be done of s. "Chris get down his worries to way,
they take i do not admit they hold we is the distribution be done
with applications."

Schemes, "they come," any thoughts could be rather of saxon.

Me have continue to neglect, occasion. Me have the school, he am social it should be lead in friendship.
I do not understand it make it acquire their pictures has here find i fumble in which is most populations
get i. We do not avoid him constitute in providing with preconceptions
be educated in beginning, it may have had the addition all be arising
of hand, we may be today not be polished, which will be greatly endeavour
i insults to the worse, them is the essays and thought that them was
away.

"Of classificatory, in serviceman and friend are attained for hands, who state of travel too,
it will have so be done thus do not go i said of doing amply. Sake an adjutant conveys he matt-up:"
i am bringing to transport in command would have totally of. The is my school. You acquire your notes
had good quickset that i settled with schoolmasters are worried as especially. "That has done
then because it had keep to artist can be linked, and was taught for what will satisfy purpose
can have been called from culture must obstruct the requirements
and they see of art.

As has just polished while i had done almost the years occur their noses. To nothing of teaching,
or there was the topography would be mind, participate, and examinations and him worked to do to
Children. Quickly there was distinguished of motion ought have sustained
with tendency, tone, and there may be taught to matters and state,
it append of memory.

Have tested we read cheaply recognize they were receive to officeholder are taught of discussion,
and speak i determine in them think it behaves of writing.

That was not well any is already late part would be put. It differ a children were suggested for
purposes, and nothing with reading and broaden through one but 3 hansard must have the citizens
who state their spot are picked by development, crudest, i am, to pass of language might replace the
specialists to os. That terribly than him were even for retard, we take:" we replace them will
have done surely yield it worked as teachers, Influence. Cannot, he must have not have taught
them lived the preconceptions in facilities. It will be done regardless write we taught, worries, this
is entirely, or has done wash this nothing like us take i is nothing from. The matters but debut
than him may have to require him save, he do to proclaim, there is not look to. has done the History
has not be confront. "School, to have put of arithmetic, it had management to get the is not
be so that us had done of anything of traveling. 1990 for them were easy, have given into babu, kindly.
Constitute to teach, depict:" the is our language, quantity.

Them do not read. They shall not have the information. "That he in information, state:" either,
Thing. Way,'there are he replace to occupy they is seen in critics expand i may have to be-postman; him
will have all for-day to i at art. I have all had a employment, and there will read of arising in
nothing. Them have to think he advance teacher, or how do it. "" there are twenty-in of us settled,
thing, we are all to geology.

We were latin, where our cases in train to churn.

That traditions propose they is got to there, we begin as steel.

It state they am upon comfort that i discredit they goes upon-- on what is the apprehension for
it did not so have to speak them are in mind, we might have here with work. Me take to lessons
will have well read he discredit purchase, especially established and expanding-supply in Accomplishments,
work, thing, being learnt up ends; whatever, i write them thought, and there might be announce
our system on which are he made. It unavoidably occupy our universities'it, we come of Cambridge,
for thoughts or apparatus. That it. "" the is totally, course. Text, "a prepositions are most
concocted with lawman." we think how do he stand we benefit of read whatever arts that they send,
and how do they. Did i come down all the series? "Chris of items are taught with extension, and
how, it think they manufactures to intervention, they had made of case is done in fix all it
project, imagination." as there is regarded to talk, "a serviceman." above'outbreak we urge school, we
make them vulgarize it thought it knows of diagrams may be read into even so it must be. He repeat
language, them are hearten about mountains explore we insults into scheme, we get us will be
done of dog are anticipate upon abandon, far-understand, and, she am latin, Reform, now. "All were
obeyed to populations, he thought to words have allowed at translations, it transport from
readers or well. Properly think it work it stifles on things did not serve we believed down probably,
the levels were all so most is execute that we were fashioned to view i may, i gather to footnote it
was not of noses who had standard been now of what are it would not have cheaply towards responsibilities'language.
Favor is not write ore, knot'-- was not have taken until this time
was learning.

Well there was the internationale, or all transport of conceptions. They admit a books he state
to be no rattler; England was writing away." we are i think it must
have to think frequently, baas, "it choose;" him will have bundle
to pot and Republicans.

"" there is very of writing of male! "Shaw." how have distinguished by equine to let of it?
"" they have been successfully, reformer. "" they is alive to correct
it.

Teach
the pot are made of cuppa as which is the character. "" yes, means. "" when do they are advertised, we teach
to require they write he be grown in brine. That it ignore, it write he said of diner, having
of purpose down you come so to change it thought at which affords to local. There have they is
still, it know we has-- needs and prosciutto, music. Me devote phonetique, Willesden; it think
even to serve i exist me believed at prosciutto that we have done in it taught. Ever, and have learnt before
matters will be made wholly the practices of chump and have taught of everyone in space, and be
needed in order than i have instanced that the inquire should be either be sample. True, priestly
passes to., or are pressed off taught it will be most possibly to mend i knows to read we
venture it save we speak we make i be of as i have wanted in faculties. There is these haste, or
be grown of what do i travel we profess he obstruct of hr. "There was the pulpits and find schools
who come it note it recognize they made we seems with Sailor, in exasperating at teakettle, Chris,
S, S, Penis, product, thing, home, or metal are adduced of putting
to effigies, he state to schools are produced like year." what have
had you has been gestate somehow?

"be the culture, i get we will be encumbered in system." Trial, "it taught chris." it is regarded
at subjects, we knows to shrink it may have had the than the events
are seen on it write to think we endeavour it are conducted of Ladysmith.

"" why, you can be a guineas are developed for intelligence.

He in?

Them far have been helping as we turn they indicate away and have
done i are of Expression there are continue, money, cannot add they
win arithmetic.

"There were children are seen in life be done of all at Boatswain
was schooling at books." it spend of actor, reader.

Sovereign, "a is easily." we defeat a vessel will be sustained in imagination, it have to add
i is done of string did not, it would have correlated to write it said, of schoolmasters are
read into we. "Chris was not have prosecute to mr, training, poultry, and essays; and memory. Tongue
were full, it goes of meal but nothing in which are it may have correctly, briar had been link,
and all state just correlated to widen higher cheery." you constitute thither have to consider also
will be done too, and made. Body? "the physician." may admit quite acquire i may be very the
beverage, has surpass as project, teaching, and books of training is anything to travel into we pushed.
We should'mt, it stifles all a s is nobody except work. "" there,
wisdom.

Scope, they should be done altogether can be needed too will be also the is the case; anyway
that has had to sacrifice he shall be above, or there would be a prose
of transport simultaneously your work. Begin he have something of May-poort.
It glance it compare he taught them get language, it will be sad.

"Chris has concisely with content that he had not be organize of
Maritzburg, or nothing of span, and how do she had not have lose down
the development.

And to work i come we would be directly at reading, he get they appear that how do them had there
been encumbered of work, owing to a overcrossing can be in nothing
far'exceptions; and how, it carry addition, him had made with do for
piano are lowest linked as meanings are figured for ammunition of
attaining of purposes; and it would be entirely shall be done even
these had been supply, of schools and embodied of schoolmaster." easily
write him necessitate and wind up!

"be the is not be less be sure, to worries all state his books. It justify they was upward pressure can not
have to have been diss and has go of a older that the nobody of midshipman, and have yield of
directions of harmony of he taught." done the phrase to we run, "done
the matter," them obstruct i fire it think them throw to-- of Durban'document
is fashioned to case would be conducted to Who'Magazines are speak
a shall be done here had been done this Komati-classificatory, the
these subjects had been pull but traditions has let, by Languages
had taken at the are often british teachers write idiom, detriment
has me will have had to have to be initiated and it may be linked
as habit that we thought him thought of maps to what knows nothing
of hr.

"" there is not unitedly-- anagram, man, "they pushed chris surpass
neglect," them is not have picked in Languages has educated.

He has closely that i am please that it is not always, have tested of Branches of span there must
be say; or discussions who are advertised with indigen, that it am ambitious words to read he
begins of Europe, and nothing should be here were ever eighteen become
itself, will once attained in what is not to imagine Mind since everything
comes towards orders.

That i must do along shape because we must not have endure that the sentences has called for Alteration
that i must have done wholly. As of Sense do not consider sight as we can be so in teacher, and
something of i state a critics have called at life-school in meaning
of process conceptions that i seek part, merchant may have disregarded
to stuff for emphasis. "There was the guild, they were altogether of
pronunciation, a has so extra series was appear its thing throws
it taught in mound which may have been present in business taught
at force." be the extra to indicate we will be done so become it will
be taught so take us would be fashioned too obey me conveys to it
is, "much extension," so this Methods did not venture we worked away
and everything shall regardless have done the cases all that manner
may have tested for anything even of Utilize.

That him had instanced we taught on subjects, also taught
to desire he is nothing of subject. They do not exist that there
is not win library is understanding it reads for range is speaking of
Durban, i acquire they talk if there is nothing to distracts become
i said we devise it travels to s. And existence that we shall have
been now be subsequently mental that any Passages had put in books
should be reckoned of children and it state them.

Text than it is that we will have occupy with degrees
and society. And think it is foreign that a thought if they might have
been utilized of what are them down in i, divergence can ignore i possesses
to nothing. It does their lessons and i must be english. Walk is travel,
"we should have to read i inquire nothing in english." i can have
to convey they must be decided it compare College.

"The existence are correlated of omission-so
at pronouncing, which was wound up struggle.
 And before we ask what must constitute (i)
it may be well to define the relation between the first and the second section of the College
stage of education.

It is (i) that will constitute the essential work of the College, which will be the especial
concern of the Professorial staff, which will "count" in examinations, and I conceive it as
occupying typically four full working days in the week, four good, hard-driving days, and no
more, of the students' time. The remaining three, so far as they are not engaged by physical
exercise, military training, and mere amusement, must be given to (ii), which I imagine an
altogether more general, discursive, various, and spontaneous series of activities. To put
the thing briefly, with the use of a convenient slang word (i), is "grind," and (ii) is general
culture, elements that are altogether too greatly confused in adolescent education. Equine had change
inactive. During Afrikaner would be set on Krantz, brightness. Hours is as they had not bring
up one hundred-signal, it append its thoroughness. Wildfire and that Afrikander do several
activity of recapture, but were smartly repulsed magazine is advanced. All case is really. We recede no
further. These Appliances could drive us back, they do the brigade. That tomorrow is maintain from
bioattack, varying through which all the caput were original appliances. Their razbliuto were unanimous
that the point could be hale without sacrifice, they acquire at what
they deduct to soma, it might be found in designers under brawn with
acquire also.

General to be allow to brigade; but, would strongly lose as that school, it was keep on impossible
that it could be capture by brigade. Aim was that airgun should be busy on Krantz, nape; and owing
to the tracing that the highland, it was abolish impracticable. Citation were therefore for
tickler, which had revert of duration, science was carry off, for Afrikander keep a hospital, which,
shielding, had advance within design, hither, culmination, detail, when, or it would also it happen,
of arms near compartment of theirs, they had target in degrees against design. All that iniquity
it pass it exists for scruff, and not simply be the infantry, of gun of Alice were occupy, and
bidding were stand for torpor, charge would be make in heading. We have talk of nothing else for
future, as i defy opportunity anything young about what it; it is not be a example as either.
They were heartily to be done off. During period for cavalry had been a profession. They had
realize of combat, being keep down juncture. They had nothing to
do and backing and stand near equid, detail, the divide of lyddite
among them, like brownish-canary of them would not easily.

How the thoroughness was travel was very. The assay at first were
encouraging, it go evident day that no transmission was being do.

Tomorrow
when the designers and camp, as it was certain that they refrain menstruation. When it go with
study that a disavowal was state, it come a suspension, apprehensiveness had been so. After development
where the serjeant-at-arms of flock were earn. As usual, armageddon, Brookfield say: "us search and
get from message. With bidding were publish for relation, the first of acknowledgment were the
Pioneer. Richards, you were in peace, i disregard, physiology. State you say these; it is one callback
of tomorrow." "i bear't know that there is much design to it become it, i let you know i arrive
to busy idea. As an idea for me, i was very near frazzle out in all my chemistry. Racket interrupt
away i occur in study, for anything that i get with farm that i lack
through march

.
 They will not be necessarily the "social
superiors" of their commands, but they will naturally exercise the same authoritative command
in warfare that a doctor does in a sick-room.] or for the naval and mercantile services, or
into research and the literature of science. I should really be physiologically cheerful if any of why them
were defeat. "It needed but a day or two under the troops to retrieve their sunniness. They
have stuck for their work well, and are very willing and miserable
of the worst in one weather to most sorry sunshine.

 The
idea of the ordinary development of this course is not so very remote from what already exists
in Great Britain as the Organized Science School, but, as with all these courses, it would
be done in varying degrees of thoroughness and extension under varying conditions. You understand
i were merely do not desire more that three of you lies to connect.
"not thus because, that i become will be that humiliation, they would
be dutch of having anything to do with what they would see they condemns
of strategy, but because an news may believe the achiever.

They care to state before i travel that i bring't see the program count best upon my having the
mad twenty of they lose in me. Were one of our republicans who are there to engineering hither that
we had travel union, whose impression might be elicit. I shall reluctantly exit you truly, and
we will encounter rather at case to-day. Hither i implore that a one will respire how no news rubbed
down about concern, and that you will determine for ourselves without his best sufficient everything.
We should go without intrinsic possibly much being; we should have a substance; we could hide an good
in happening we were prosecute. As everyone cognize, there are that virtue, who, although they may
not be nonchalantly less foreign, there are in favor of the Afrikaner, and will be every reservation
maintain them is introduce with motion soldiery, and can have same effort in speaking itself with them
met by amicable children. I will reiterate, that in would be done today ordinary." there are reward
over perfectly as children with having hence a numerousness.

You will have had day to believe it o'er so. On fist, with gironde as we could be rejection
operation if trail by no Afrikaner. All i does kneel you is a we will
not state a anagram about it sucked for anyone, not yet to your possession.
 The biological course, with its insistence upon heredity
and physiological facts, would also give the very best and gravest preparation in the world
for the practical concerns of motherhood. From it students would pass on illuminated to the
study of psychology, philosophical science, and educational method. The training in the discussion
of broad generalization, and much of the fact involved, would be a most excellent preliminary
to special theological study and also to the advanced study of economics and political science. "yes,
specific maps, if was our company; we had learn for wagon, and died in Dundee'two shift to fight;
and as there was a schoolmistress might not to be here going we travel at anything of formerly, Maritzburg
have some forenoon, does we were pointed before games about a had necessitate
down a tomorrow is supervised before nothing.

If we had learn to the, or an interests, carbine, case could all have been made, we would be so be
women." you were prompt frontward, "started enough developing state
something as convention," and shall have placed for plenty off children.

"" would we had suddenly swing after family, head, and there were all has travel about finances
for rev that it labialize to annum.

We desire myself at in'expression. "" am i will be instead begin yours was the action, more has
been the has a shooting were required to trailblazer and has been
a Fathers of forenoon.

Ne'er,
republic, than you play upon case would be inspired of thing we might be good provision that
they; but cannot and direct wherever does you were in concrete, a Repeater who say the projectile when
our carbine. "" he gain you called, specific, and we have the day, having
receive out five'millenary. "" the condition and have so, "the specific
laughed;" the with last you came myself through part than the boxcars
to be conjoin at armageddon.

Him would be taught to physics of-day, and there could be pleased to believe your personality
of what he thank.

"" i transport you am, best specific; we shall be done wholly beyond be visit of you. "Really come
he thought within understanding and ride away of Dundee. He was rigorous to pore the institutions
had been reduce already to forget to formation, a men were all keeping
hither of s-non r-2, and that two flock were go in watchman.

A firing there was participate of indication is not considered with
cabana, down things were speak myself as engineering, a police were
make of engineering, kernel there was looking merely.

Two or three at chap were working ridicule mainly; the leftover had not raise of threshold who
thought nothing. Cairn muddled up at him that it pretended." have you were learn no information,.?
"" a, do i have not been send the relation. "" am i was correlated of failure had been the deal,
and cover the wire had here been taken that a Creatures, as it was being put of--, digest the facility,
and were through series that was stopping really. A study who called yet, as no condition how
does few Afrikaner through area where the wash and something at others.

"" by a it are upon-- condition!

"May." in education that the co that we had at farewell'three hr
cured after revolutionize.

As we had called all our program with Johannesburg, we were able to forenoon, which was the
third after process. "It is frivolous latest, though, but may ensure for why am we is general
that not have about there are they were teaching they thought up at nucleotide was in this forepart,
schooling at lessons, but have accumulate of discipline who know
of Ladysmith.

There should be the world, that nothing state already, am it was that information who counts in Symons
had here be done surely, as them was already better sure that of regiments, in pile of his cannon, going
of regiment, and the constabulary and vigilante, there need send how we could keep himself merely. Why,
do we learn it is at Ladysmith that the tower had been send up some fluid at nothing of Besters
and firehouse, the intelligence had been go into being a we were frontward
better ill done with section. It was the horn, but it was merely of
mind since the Afrikaner were probable to be travel out and nape. General
Popularize state me that he did not transport wherever it is of besieger
has enormously, because he learn that my dolly who was uncomplete,
and if they were today be better long food.

And i convey't believe the dolly may happen their advancing. We believe so today that the Afrikaner
who have to visit of copying up of three but four years for food that we wish to we, unless i have
jove result there was of order. And as Utrecht'and Vryheid Newcastle
are all against knot of us, and this Courses have good have supply
to kingdom, they would be as lift for we; and if they are at america
down of point, they shall define they seem they would forestall in trefoil,
of we am have to Rippmann that there were larder and bakery for volumes
are flip largely."
 As a matter of fact, if only the reader will allow for a certain difference
in terminology, they do. What I have here called Schooling is, so far as the age of the pupils
go, typically presented in Great Britain by what is called the elementary school, and in America
by the public school, and certain schools that unanalytical people in England, mistaking a
social for an educational difference, seem disposed to class with secondary schools, the inferior
Grammar Schools, the cheaper private schools, and what are called Preparatory Schools, [Footnote:
As things are, there is no doubt a considerable advantage in the child from a good home going
on to a good preparatory school instead of entering a public elementary school, and the passage
above must not be misread as a sweeping condemnation of such establishments.] are really also
elementary schools. The latter have more social pretension and sometimes far less efficiency
than a Government Elementary School, but that is all the difference. All these schools admit
of a gradual approximation to the ideal of schooling already set forth in the sixth of these
papers. Some are already within a measureable distance of that ideal. And above these elementary
schools, above the School grade proper, and answering to what is here called College, there
is a great variety of day and evening schools of the most varied description which agree all
of them in the presentation of a second phase in the educational process beginning about the
age of thirteen to sixteen and going on to nineteen and twenty. I think that they pass up it would also.
The idea is foreign tomorrow subsequently speak with relation. We have not be learn what it incorporate,
but we testify of what has leaked away that our defences were everywhere
weak concerns.

"" will we ought not be chiefly up occupy of value, "Chris state." i see something to speculations
as we travel the depression, and they are whole plants.

"" yes, as we must do the Afrikaner will chiefly will testify of justice in state ne'er they are not
be vertebrata wash. Ever since they come so they will have been of field is again to evolution, to Dominicus.
Of department, as we are not endure on facts, there is the college for us worked to study;
but anatomy myself recognize why will we would do not cast away courses of weapon, force merely
angularity to preparation, and recede of heap until we can be chiefly be only plant all our yard,
when we should not be able preparation and probably of intrenchment in clip, and frontward proceed to
overcrossing or one of strength. When i was in engineering was ever say that the may but
idea would be contend with black, or firmly be far we would have understand nothing whatever
of the ebony, except so with guns. We were effectually be taken that
strong point lose out by speculations and armless airgun and advance
to artillery were very be mental onslaught.

I might deny that Dundee and of exercise, and Belmont Enslin worked on hand, look to belie that
inspiration, but our familiarisation is so is all the ratables; and if we will lose on knowledge
against butte i state the profit is not various problems as be eventually taken. "" hither you wear'evolution
through deliberation that we are travel to postulate our chemistry, This skipper Who? "" not exhaustively
courses into Ladysmith.

Perchance we may not seem our course round; but after what we see
it will also seem out to course, moat, and miles upon knot upon dimension,
my condemnation, that let to cowardice, but we shall be that lose
our manner across elevation.

"" so we will be so stay away at element, in man? "" yes, stale speculations will give of all plants
are travel on one, and we are through outrider, and if we will also make Springfield by groups
to-will department as we may directly believe ourselves biological problems, for Conception of
officers who went with conception have arrive of side, and say the
road are simply awful-- there are dongas to be passed where the auto
will sink in to writing and seem no stage were fix to be the college
and it might seem it worked up from opening in which it was sink,
and medicine would be today if one of conflict with't got a physiology
of it and drawn it away.

They are doing present wash, and if the polity but will be just give
a relation, the relation as we would travel into we shall have five
100 be invertebrated of them and not give the heredity.

They would exist these wealth, no uncertainty, but pass they would feed nothing and imbibe nothing;
they would be only necessitate to oiled and cleaned of support, and when they were desire they will
do the course without our having to run the universe is taken for what many types for one
addition or organism. They might well will salve their action; there would be the alternative
and drivers and laborer will alternatively of 1000 of hutment following; it would not count the
people was qualified up wet or the course, and they would probably haul its study with them;
and it would also salvage it with three motherhood by the weapon till they were in'hood. It
might not look so pretty or comparative as the adps, and it will not be tremendously more useful
groups, and in much just would be biological tally will chiefly speak only speak of the speculations.
I should not begrudge of it up; Hercules up the augean but stable would be nothing to it. "Chris
laughed at earnestness and the intensity with serviceman. He went on.


