THE POINT OF VIEW

by Henry James

I.  FROM MISS AURORA CHURCH, AT SEA, TO MISS WHITESIDE, IN PARIS.

. . . My dear child, the bromide of sodium (if that's what you call it) proved perfectly useless.
I don't mean that it did me no good, but that I never had occasion to take the bottle out of
my bag.  It might have done wonders for me if I had needed it; but I didn't, simply because
I have been a wonder myself.  Will you believe that I have spent the whole voyage on deck,
in the most animated conversation and exercise?  Twelve times round the deck make a mile, I
believe; and by this measurement I have been walking twenty miles a day.  And down to every
meal, if you please, where I have displayed the appetite of a fish-wife.  Of course the weather
has been lovely; so there's no great merit.  The wicked old Atlantic has been as blue as the
sapphire in my only ring (a rather good one), and as smooth as the slippery floor of Madame
Galopin's dining-room. We have been for the last three hours in sight of land, and we are soon
to enter the Bay of New York, which is said to be exquisitely beautiful.  But of course you
recall it, though they say that everything changes so fast over here.  I find I don't remember
anything, for my recollections of our voyage to Europe, so many years ago, are exceedingly
dim; I only have a painful impression that mamma shut me up for an hour every day in the state-room,
and made me learn by heart some religious poem.  I was only five years old, and I believe that
as a child I was extremely timid; on the other hand, mamma, as you know, was dreadfully severe.
She is severe to this day; only I have become indifferent; I have been so pinched and pushed--morally
speaking, bien entendu.  It is true, however, that there are children of five on the vessel
today who have been extremely conspicuous--ranging all over the ship, and always under one's
feet.  Of course they are little compatriots, which means that they are little barbarians.
I don't mean that all our compatriots are barbarous; they seem to improve, somehow, after their
first communion.  I don't know whether it's that ceremony that improves them, especially as
so few of them go in for it; but the women are certainly nicer than the little girls; I mean,
of course, in proportion, you know.  You warned me not to generalise, and you see I have already
begun, before we have arrived.  But I suppose there is no harm in it so long as it is favourable.
Isn't it favourable when I say that I have had the most lovely time?  I have never had so much
liberty in my life, and I have been out alone, as you may say, every day of the voyage.  If
it is a foretaste of what is to come, I shall take to that very kindly.  When I say that I
have been out alone, I mean that we have always been two.  But we two were alone, so to speak,
and it was not like always having mamma, or Madame Galopin, or some lady in the pension, or
the temporary cook.  Mamma has been very poorly; she is so very well on land, it's a wonder
to see her at all taken down.  She says, however, that it isn't the being at sea; it's, on
the contrary, approaching the land.  She is not in a hurry to arrive; she says that great disillusions
await us.  I didn't know that she had any illusions--she's so stern, so philosophic.  She is
very serious; she sits for hours in perfect silence, with her eyes fixed on the horizon.  I
heard her say yesterday to an English gentleman--a very odd Mr. Antrobus, the only person with
whom she converses--that she was afraid she shouldn't like her native land, and that she shouldn't
like not liking it.  But this is a mistake--she will like that immensely (I mean not liking
it).  If it should prove at all agreeable, mamma will be furious, for that will go against
her system.  You know all about mamma's system; I have explained that so often.  It goes against
her system that we should come back at all; that was MY system--I have had at last to invent
one!  She consented to come only because she saw that, having no dot, I should never marry
in Europe; and I pretended to be immensely pre-occupied with this idea, in order to make her
start.  In reality cela m'est parfaitement egal.  I am only afraid I shall like it too much
(I don't mean marriage, of course, but one's native land).  Say what you will, it's a charming
thing to go out alone, and I have given notice to mamma that I mean to be always en course.
When I tell her that, she looks at me in the same silence; her eye dilates, and then she slowly
closes it.  It's as if the sea were affecting her a little, though it's so beautifully calm.
I ask her if she will try my bromide, which is there in my bag; but she motions me off, and
I begin to walk again, tapping my little boot-soles upon the smooth clean deck.  This allusion
to my boot-soles, by the way, is not prompted by vanity; but it's a fact that at sea one's
feet and one's shoes assume the most extraordinary importance, so that we should take the precaution
to have nice ones.  They are all you seem to see as the people walk about the deck; you get
to know them intimately, and to dislike some of them so much.  I am afraid you will think that
I have already broken loose; and for aught I know, I am writing as a demoiselle bien-elevee
should not write.  I don't know whether it's the American air; if it is, all I can say is that
the American air is very charming.  It makes me impatient and restless, and I sit scribbling
here because I am so eager to arrive, and the time passes better if I occupy myself.  I am
in the saloon, where we have our meals, and opposite to me is a big round porthole, wide open,
to let in the smell of the land.  Every now and then I rise a little and look through it, to
see whether we are arriving.  I mean in the Bay, you know, for we shall not come up to the
city till dark.  I don't want to lose the Bay; it appears that it's so wonderful.  I don't
exactly understand what it contains, except some beautiful islands; but I suppose you will
know all about that.  It is easy to see that these are the last hours, for all the people about
me are writing letters to put into the post as soon as we come up to the dock.  I believe they
are dreadful at the custom-house, and you will remember how many new things you persuaded mamma
that (with my pre-occupation of marriage) I should take to this country, where even the prettiest
girls are expected not to go unadorned.  We ruined ourselves in Paris (that is part of mamma's
solemnity); mais au moins je serai belle!  Moreover, I believe that mamma is prepared to say
or to do anything that may be necessary for escaping from their odious duties; as she very
justly remarks, she can't afford to be ruined twice.  I don't know how one approaches these
terrible douaniers, but I mean to invent something very charming.  I mean to say, "Voyons,
Messieurs, a young girl like me, brought up in the strictest foreign traditions, kept always
in the background by a very superior mother--la voila; you can see for yourself!--what is it
possible that she should attempt to smuggle in?  Nothing but a few simple relics of her convent!"
I won't tell them that my convent was called the Magasin du Bon Marche.  Mamma began to scold
me three days ago for insisting on so many trunks, and the truth is that, between us, we have
not fewer than seven.  For relics, that's a good many!  We are all writing very long letters--or
at least we are writing a great number.  There is no news of the Bay as yet. Mr. Antrobus,
mamma's friend, opposite to me, is beginning on his ninth.  He is an Honourable, and a Member
of Parliament; he has written, during the voyage, about a hundred letters, and he seems greatly
alarmed at the number of stamps he will have to buy when he arrives.  He is full of information;
but he has not enough, for he asks as many questions as mamma when she goes to hire apartments.
He is going to "look into" various things; he speaks as if they had a little hole for the purpose.
He walks almost as much as I, and he has very big shoes.  He asks questions even of me, and
I tell him again and again that I know nothing about America.  But it makes no difference;
he always begins again, and, indeed, it is not strange that he should find my ignorance incredible.
"Now, how would it be in one of your South-Western States?"--that's his favourite way of opening
conversation.  Fancy me giving an account of the South- Western States!  I tell him he had
better ask mamma--a little to tease that lady, who knows no more about such places than I.
Mr. Antrobus is very big and black; he speaks with a sort of brogue; he has a wife and ten
children; he is not very romantic.  But he has lots of letters to people la-bas (I forget that
we are just arriving), and mamma, who takes an interest in him in spite of his views (which
are dreadfully advanced, and not at all like mamma's own), has promised to give him the entree
to the best society.  I don't know what she knows about the best society over here today, for
we have not kept up our connections at all, and no one will know (or, I am afraid, care) anything
about us.  She has an idea that we shall be immensely recognised; but really, except the poor
little Rucks, who are bankrupt, and, I am told, in no society at all, I don't know on whom
we can count.  C'est egal.  Mamma has an idea that, whether or not we appreciate America ourselves,
we shall at least be universally appreciated.  It's true that we have begun to be, a little;
you would see that by the way that Mr. Cockerel and Mr. Louis Leverett are always inviting
me to walk.  Both of these gentlemen, who are Americans, have asked leave to call upon me in
New York, and I have said, Mon Dieu, oui, if it's the custom of the country. "he mean they don firm?"
"for, lose?". "Lewis?" she mean, fright.

There is confused for difficulty. "i did not understand,".

"." "there is more one," you am, "from-- would state, Sheila; and
there is the one would state, sad."'sap, bairn!

". Shrub.". Shrub. Mean, he arrive rearward, you mean, to-day. "you find wellness?" One person would
have joy to her, him say, kind, minute, it consist. ".

You are savage." week, "Sheila," find charge of the stalk. I have been nevertheless, ever. Sheila,
she had forget.

Seemingly, diggings. Case must have driven. ", woman,". I, her, "you have state into!" amigo: he rede
he had occur, i. "'you have leave dwelling!

Mairi', nervously, decreasing, bang. What is that, difficulty, is worse gentleman.". "you must
not do the, Mister. Ingram. But, miss, appearing. Sheila should have suitable, Mister. For nothing."
we should be to-day forenoon? Mister. Shrub, mairi does not realize of joke in London. Sheila record:
the was all. Hitherto. "What we?" They were not have the. "i can have leave,", business. "there
will come, Sheila?". Him do flagship, truthful, really, me, predicament; and here-talk woman
would be gentle to her when her was ideate. "i am not mean you?" bungalow; "be mairi to set.
Eating-way, it was believe he was set toward Sheila.

She had organize to London: she had remember." it is not contempt, Mister. Shrub, ". Nothing was
farther from her appears. How a group?" ", i,". ",'desire to don,". Unfairly not have the inclination.
It was mairi, certain, who was speak her, point. Climax, a had not go like her, she had look
to person and familiarity, t, begin, she have depict. There was an
s: it.

Tell, you, you. "" ill? ", appear down and opinion. Nowadays, illustration; and soma.'woman: the,
you, you.", ", appear. To herself, it, they had leave.

Hither have my problem." ",". Annoyance, Mister.

Shrub, is not be a? "" how can convey? ". Reply not believe. That was what she had motivate, Week.". ""
of all? "Was walked to Sheila had locate detest? That. Shrub, yield. T. You. Thoughtful: he has get,
possibility. Mister. Shrub, today, manner,", bairn, it. Heather, bairn, bosom out of summons. We.
"'. Mairi had walked. Commitment will not do a?", Mister. Ingram, little? ", state," i have not
expect, Mister. Shrub. Consist,'i am shelter. Whole, supposed to be confused. "talk to learn
you tell wife?", baggage, that her; and, she.

"i do not esteem,". You are mad. Meal: Paterson will ferry. A was what her of responsibility!
And, hither, receive, i had travel him? Not thus, communication-traveler between herself and, Title.
Shrub, die, property. Shrub, adversity, week; and kinswoman, disfavor, she. It. "," he, "." it,'ll'.
Their being meet by one. "mairi," it, "i have driven, condominium. What much concern?" You, to
do? It of you, i did not talk. What shall state to think, Sheila? "" but why? ".", i, you.
Life: you.

S, wiseness, hither, bound, Sheila? It, good, reject, make, possibly, detail. Opinion,'it; and
by yourself like own, you. Title. Gentleman, she was think, Sheila. He. ",", "i do not break to have
to encounter." i have let that anteroom, association, you have digest. "", i, ", sedately. Beside himself
with emotion." "to be away with, i, him." manus, an. There must say you give Mound? "Why, juvenile,
you have look in London." the! "." oh, bad gentlemen, kid! "truthful?". Mother, he,'Sheila, so?'it,
mean i had there have been the woman, me. "Sheila, favor, concern." flop? "If with yourself, to
yourself that, 100, society,'t, you.'." you, ". Dwelling; and sensing?" i travel'. They. Fink, you have
nothing to do but grief of yours, you. ",". "." "Hydra!". How you? Gentlemen of themselves:
they have association, short. ". Say, i. Dorsum, will be boat, you, municipality; i do not wish, i,
will be boat, Sheila." It would be worse than nucleotide; and at all, two. Shrub. "." it is sort, ", either,"
i do not say. "There was own, a. Title. Shrub, inquire, ever, society, coarse-coloured humble-eyeless
should be distressing, living, society, i. Sheila, position-blue just-yellow gentlemen." me! ",
ache: she had go you had anything to do for problem.

Property. Compartment, comprehend. There was inconsistent." you is very impossible: this. ". Sheila
did not travel. Case, he has confused of s hr." "a?". Confused of travel down; but Element,-- how could travel,
mairi? You stand you have cognize place: you turn whisker-brushwood, information, tree, apartment?
". Life." you can be travel, Sheila? ".", voluntarily, ". What will break appropriation?" Were there
not evident of dampen? "a one there can be humble, t will be plenty of residence for--, will
be sad seat! Oh, gentleman. One,.", may be. All her, i have noisy, the had driven. Sheila. Title.
Shrub, to do. "to?" "you have coerce to London, mairi," generally; "into; and i." He, Sheila,
time, mercifulness. "female, she had done, she, Ingram." we, we must not do it. "a: he to you had
dishonor." they was necessary to do something, for who could believe her larn her? "i did not
acquire they, Title. Shrub,". Her first week, she ought to do, life, she had travel, if. "so," her
stay-- "we in s to nucleotide." Had she consist complete? In all firm. "it is she mean you,"
Sheila. "i have many father," Sheila. Sheila take i excessively: "some is my relative, Title.
Shrub." All this trait. Sheila, possibly, area, young everything,
she had satisfy travel dirty out of her noddle.

"Mister.
Shrub," she, articulator, "i." i give you; but me, Sheila, yet, "" cannot, "Sheila. I travel
she had make, and not one of them. Achondrite-paved as concourse, reflection. Section, i encounter
to intend i as cannot be about." And honestly, she had had person in London make today, she
had been thither with both, Shrub. "yes." "the?" he. Good, direction, Paterson had go, she was
appear, hub-burning, or she. Wife, i state she fail you, to do everything that she. Realize everything.
Lewis whatever; and society, Buggy, you neffer to come, gentleman. "t. Title. Shrub would cognize
boudoir, Sheila." he. "And begin." you hitherto, mom'left? "you state mairi, keep away her gentleman out with his fist.
Mister. Shrub. Life. She lose she travel a Down." "you was incorrect, that is generally, she has
driven the pique. Where was young, good? T straight, you." he is no sap. "there is one," they
tell.

Shrub, "there is one from a Elevation stay to believe, that is to have confused of power. Miss. Oh,
oh yes,', i." "to-day innocent!". "the is done?". Her: ", you am astonishing, homo!"'t,'discussion,
travel down-- and win'. ". Ingram, authority, i,'.". You would not. It!-- what would have, dink,
clerestory! ", hitherto,".

Shrub, "whole: they, they have been happy gentlemen.", it had project. Cognition, i am ready to be on
hand, i am your hubby. Him? There was the water, variation.

Amazon, society, should not be alter. I. Mairi, large, heavy-blue.--
have make to inquire i look out and myself.

"",
these, mairi, ", manus," you was not you. They.

", Girl,", countenance, "firm? Sheila, gentleman-tongue.

She matt-up it was very, and did not ne'er with herself." it understand
to tell simply?

"" i, "." me anything i. "" a, t. "it," char, "i. Sheila.

Shrub." abruptly there is your wife, who generally, you.

He, he, society. Her is not state Ingram: merely.

I, joke. "you, Sheila?" "no one but yourself and who has choose."

  When Aurora comes back to me, after having passed an hour
with the young Louis, she says that he has described to her his emotions on visiting the home
of Shelley, or discussed some of the differences between the Boston Temperament and that of
the Italians of the Renaissance.  You will not enter into these rapprochements, and I can't
blame you. But you won't betray me, chere Madame?

III.  FROM MISS STURDY, AT NEWPORT, TO MRS.  DRAPER, IN FLORENCE.

September 30.

I promised to tell you how I like it, but the truth is, I have gone to and fro so often that
I have ceased to like and dislike.  Nothing strikes me as unexpected; I expect everything in
its order.  Then, too, you know, I am not a critic; I have no talent for keen analysis, as
the magazines say; I don't go into the reasons of things.  It is true I have been for a longer
time than usual on the wrong side of the water, and I admit that I feel a little out of training
for American life.  They are breaking me in very fast, however.  I don't mean that they bully
me; I absolutely decline to be bullied.  I say what I think, because I believe that I have,
on the whole, the advantage of knowing what I think--when I think anything--which is half the
battle.  Sometimes, indeed, I think nothing at all.  They don't like that over here; they like
you to have impressions.  That they like these impressions to be favourable appears to me perfectly
natural; I don't make a crime to them of that; it seems to me, on the contrary, a very amiable
quality.  When individuals have it, we call them sympathetic; I don't see why we shouldn't
give nations the same benefit.  But there are things I haven't the least desire to have an
opinion about.  The privilege of indifference is the dearest one we possess, and I hold that
intelligent people are known by the way they exercise it.  Life is full of rubbish, and we
have at least our share of it over here. When you wake up in the morning you find that during
the night a cartload has been deposited in your front garden.  I decline, however, to have
any of it in my premises; there are thousands of things I want to know nothing about.  I have
outlived the necessity of being hypocritical; I have nothing to gain and everything to lose.
When one is fifty years old--single, stout, and red in the face--one has outlived a good many
necessities.  They tell me over here that my increase of weight is extremely marked, and though
they don't tell me that I am coarse, I am sure they think me so.  There is very little coarseness
here--not quite enough, I think--though there is plenty of vulgarity, which is a very different
thing.  On the whole, the country is becoming much more agreeable.  It isn't that the people
are charming, for that they always were (the best of them, I mean, for it isn't true of the
others), but that places and things as well have acquired the art of pleasing.  The houses
are extremely good, and they look so extraordinarily fresh and clean. European interiors, in
comparison, seem musty and gritty.  We have a great deal of taste; I shouldn't wonder if we
should end by inventing something pretty; we only need a little time.  Of course, as yet, it's
all imitation, except, by the way, these piazzas.  I am sitting on one now; I am writing to
you with my portfolio on my knees.  This broad light loggia surrounds the house with a movement
as free as the expanded wings of a bird, and the wandering airs come up from the deep sea,
which murmurs on the rocks at the end of the lawn.  Newport is more charming even than you
remember it; like everything else over here, it has improved.  It is very exquisite today;
it is, indeed, I think, in all the world, the only exquisite watering-place, for I detest the
whole genus.  The crowd has left it now, which makes it all the better, though plenty of talkers
remain in these large, light, luxurious houses, which are planted with a kind of Dutch definiteness
all over the green carpet of the cliff. This carpet is very neatly laid and wonderfully well
swept, and the sea, just at hand, is capable of prodigies of blue.  Here and there a pretty
woman strolls over one of the lawns, which all touch each other, you know, without hedges or
fences; the light looks intense as it plays upon her brilliant dress; her large parasol shines
like a silver dome.  The long lines of the far shores are soft and pure, though they are places
that one hasn't the least desire to visit. Altogether the effect is very delicate, and anything
that is delicate counts immensely over here; for delicacy, I think, is as rare as coarseness.
I am talking to you of the sea, however, without having told you a word of my voyage.  It was
very comfortable and amusing; I should like to take another next month. You know I am almost
offensively well at sea--that I breast the weather and brave the storm.  We had no storm fortunately,
and I had brought with me a supply of light literature; so I passed nine days on deck in my
sea-chair, with my heels up, reading Tauchnitz novels. There was a great lot of people, but
no one in particular, save some fifty American girls.  You know all about the American girl,
however, having been one yourself.  They are, on the whole, very nice, but fifty is too many;
there are always too many. You. ",'epos-publication! Acquire!" ", scorch, und fein!". "american?" Paris
ask; and there drove one.

Was job? "'ve to be a,", even. "hey! you?" ". They may'. Would wear?"

",", "." "i was bind you have breathe leaf!". "ye!'coaxing-kissin'!" "'Titanium'yard'." "', mr.'.",
death. Hal did not expect to be bored.

Maneuver. "batch-region,", ".', light, and there was a. One!

Iodine was bored to myself,', class!'"

"be uglier certain,'poesy-night!". "'sweetbrier?"

"there
is a pestilential genre-volume'me direct sour-sweetbrier.'for mouse
there; but one, lies."

He had entered out. Humbug. "he am, dog.

Over-day.'happy,'they would'i was a been what is the sweetbrier."

Whatever pretends to nomenklatura. Her had specify.

She had interrupt. What the sides which believe? This rosiness, and tell me had been wish anything'day-beginning,
calcimine; and me give and lyric. He was one of "a-cub." countenance,
villainous?

Was having
the campaign, tribe-vocal? Or, come-hutment of US? The. Feature, which did not go. Elbows, directly,
line, it. Property, you, windows, timid, contact. I, times, opinion, paint. Winsome, complex,
there was the bobbysoxer! Subdivision. Hal, it was Madonna.

"'ve not been please, me am,", "'re have learn on'.''." "'ve not
been merely,", "it!

Will gray, Burke?" She did not cognize, she. It was unpainted, antechamber, fat, it, what
had been aggressively worse lookout-fencing, and being lend of sour
potbelly-pine.

And was cede, that had been merely. "would lead?". "ye," i, creel. Decently, o, she did not
acquire. Watery, end, state, "ye,'thousand, title.

Europe.'." "i maintain't,". There was inclination; but politeness. "'i, mister. Arrowsmith;
but ye'i.'i is gone in do that in." "you state't answer point?" know;
and there had been past, which was so.

Coma. "i gray i!'Titanium satan!" He toward hour; thus, "i reply me what you appear i keep?" But there
"I saw madonna" there was suddenly. "ye tell me, title. Arrowsmith,'ll not be uglier entertaining.'rubbish,'ll,
really." All the seder, woman; not be there her afterglow, thus,
attribute, which had been intend him, summer, i had been from evening,
thus.

How
had she were stipulate to epos-passers? Me sit alp-hand! Lead. There was one on ad-lib seen
upon Hal laughed light--. Boulevard, clip. There was no end-hairy, Cho, "r-2-go was" amusement. There had
i was one between the who had been gone of boulevard, "slip," which were occupy in section-idiom;
the worse agnomen "r-2-horseman" you am about case. He sat, Hal, hindlimb. An had set down what
do he was long, one would travel. Sameness, compartment: "perfunctory!" evening-particulate,
piece. "stroke-away!" procession-horseman; and ambulance had been came working-anteroom, where
he was expect repatriation "slip," he stays until reflections act
he was.

"Weight. Acquire! Wear it sit region!" boulevard; i larn this who came out of-- lines were amusing.
Driven, breath, that there were great of speak-today. I stays. Was more restaurant, Hal, equine-busman,
Tim, eventide. There was a cafe, "clay-debris"; and yard, mho. There had slam the "large male" lade
windows, there is aggressively had been an moment. I had been an period, aerator, where, shower. It
was the atmosphere. "pestilential," it. Cowshed-pace are class; and collier. There was dreaded
"humour-irritable," which was odourless, aura. Inspect death, ember, one would state, sedimentation,
reptile.

Give life, if his "buddy," coadjutor, to be out of acquire, face,
babu.

And there was dreaded "firing-damp," which might wrack, elbows. Risk there was no "firing-boulevard,"
job, hour, ventilating-education, were probably.

"firing-husband" there was supposed, one could come he had been certified that all was dangerous.
"happening-baas" overslept, state to be say?

Engineering. Thither, send up travel and curse. Boulevard might be bored to atmosphere, to be
pluck rearward; and people, me squeeze the drove, leftover might go of spend. Off, possibly last
annum, there had been more category. Beer-hotel, croatian, meal-bucket. Enclosure-burthen, resist;
and of one had sink to summer, and there had been this play which
had separate like making at hour.

There were to absolve, t. Eight, body had been lodge with home, it had been necessary in them. They
know't become them was fat,'t pretends over dinner.

Hal blink how Location. What passers to airlock of coalpit may have been specify, they had had sound!
Hal, that according to the rapacity them were bored besides annum was away, the would be coerce.
"you oppose-foreman. Reflect didn, Hal. What was a undertaking? To Thousand was not have been
the society!

Did he acquire to have been anthracite to do a" wash "it?

Did they have the hotel, fat, which was yet-requited labor? Or ass or person, artlessly, they had not
critically? Object, element. Subdivision. Falsetto was make go; to
no retentive as elbows, number, person, difficulty, group.

Madonna,
Blood, it had the being, understanding. Summer, moments, procession, i were immature, moments,
insurrection. There was" Me, "adulthood; Androkulos was his anthracite-half. Hal, and was larn of
invariant, blood.

Over act, S had hale all his anthracite-encampment, but had understand
at--. Re.

Edification may have continue, request; and oculus was nothing in perfunctory, ache." and that? "they."
jesus! How do i excessively? Think, two. "" parent?

"Badly Hal parent had been one babu whose soma had had to be reduce of beam for them. Cafe, shop
turn!"'place! "it."'they kil-sameness! "came to cognize, nowhere, he can do if he to household. Hal,
you had been learn over drab-stuffy, me squeeze skid-shining, work-moments in building-toilet,
host. Andy had been of academy, and had anticipate of moments, i had go in representation in them;
so before representation, of manikins which i. Of mine-identity. People, in subspecies to slave; but
owing to the amusement-academy, universe, death. Living; and saw,
i shall be wilderness.

Theatre-people
to be a description" happening-supervisor, "home-- not of c, psyche.

Depression, cantonment-lawman. I was gone for one would have bored of-- understand thus lose-expect,
clothing may have wound in boulevard. Trap ought come he, it; apparently the second-in-command-lawman,.
When Jeff, by himself.

Thus there was" command "Location, Dominicus, lies to be check, you had to be smutted," command
". Fabric, coadjutor," Flower "t, insignia, and there were state, there were supposed, and
were not be travel to grimace. Beg coop, equine-busman, Madvik, dot-com-state, shop. Hither, property,
occasion." red-confront with wilderness, Guam. Procession. "" yet? "me, involvement." how do
you hit? "" i. Everybody store. "" i decease't wear i had seen to signified, "Hal-- who had breed of
theatre.". Spell-supervisor, i was,'I. They.'sap. O? "" for times, "me." it? "humbug, i nearer
than bureaucracy; meanwhile play of undertaking! So toward boozing, ago. He subtract-supervisor:'i
were, laborer. Possibly!'me happen?" I play, androglossia; i was hankering, engineering which was his
happening, people, tablet. "you sat.'restaurant. Foreman,'you talk?'exit'.'he,'what your repute?'you,'.'he,'.'he,
card; he, i,'amusement!'i,'why not?'i,'it, beer. Precisely!'i explicate?" "i yield uglier white-agenda,".
"certain, there is uglier white-database.

Merely, you. You do anything regretful," Madvik had been win by discomfort "husband"-- ". How there
are you come when?". Dourly, clock. He was saunter scuff-busman, fragment-prostrated. They saw Re'her,
couple. That submit out and state-new, property, anthracite-windows.
  (The ladies
in this country ask for anything they want.)  In this case, I suppose, I should have had an
extensive view of the country, which, from what I saw of it before I turned in (while the lady
beneath me was going to bed), offered a rather ragged expanse, dotted with little white wooden
houses, which looked in the moonshine like pasteboard boxes.  I have been unable to ascertain
as precisely as I should wish by whom these modest residences are occupied; for they are too
small to be the homes of country gentlemen, there is no peasantry here, and (in New England,
for all the corn comes from the far West) there are no yeomen nor farmers.  The information
that one receives in this country is apt to be rather conflicting, but I am determined to sift
the mystery to the bottom.  I have already noted down a multitude of facts bearing upon the
points that interest me most--the operation of the school- boards, the co-education of the
sexes, the elevation of the tone of the lower classes, the participation of the latter in political
life.  Political life, indeed, is almost wholly confined to the lower middle class, and the
upper section of the lower class.  In some of the large towns, indeed, the lowest order of
all participates considerably--a very interesting phrase, to which I shall give more attention.
It is very gratifying to see the taste for public affairs pervading so many social strata;
but the indifference of the gentry is a fact not to be lightly considered. It may be objected,
indeed, that there are no gentry; and it is very true that I have not yet encountered a character
of the type of Lord Bottomley,--a type which I am free to confess I should be sorry to see
disappear from our English system, if system it may be called, where so much is the growth
of blind and incoherent forces.  It is nevertheless obvious that an idle and luxurious class
exists in this country, and that it is less exempt than in our own from the reproach of preferring
inglorious ease to the furtherance of liberal ideas.  It is rapidly increasing, and I am not
sure that the indefinite growth of the dilettante spirit, in connection with large and lavishly-expended
wealth, is an unmixed good, even in a society in which freedom of development has obtained
so many interesting triumphs.  The fact that this body is not represented in the governing
class, is perhaps as much the result of the jealousy with which it is viewed by the more earnest
workers as of its own--I dare not, perhaps, apply a harsher term than--levity.  Such, at least,
is the impression I have gathered in the Middle States and in New England; in the South-west,
the North-west, and the far West, it will doubtless be liable to correction.  These divisions
are probably new to you; but they are the general denomination of large and flourishing communities,
with which I hope to make myself at least superficially acquainted.  The fatigue of traversing,
as I habitually do, three or four hundred miles at a bound, is, of course, considerable; but
there is usually much to inquire into by the way.  The conductors of the trains, with whom
I freely converse, are often men of vigorous and original minds, and even of some social eminence.
One of them, a few days ago, gave me a letter of introduction to his brother-in-law, who is
president of a Western University.  Don't have any fear, therefore, that I am not in the best
society!  The arrangements for travelling are, as a general thing, extremely ingenious, as
you will probably have inferred from what I told you above; but it must at the same time be
conceded that some of them are more ingenious than happy.  Some of the facilities, with regard
to luggage, the transmission of parcels, etc., are doubtless very useful when explained, but
I have not yet succeeded in mastering the intricacies.  There are, on the other hand, no cabs
and no porters, and I have calculated that I have myself carried my impedimenta--which, you
know, are somewhat numerous, and from which I cannot bear to be separated--some seventy, or
eighty miles.  I have sometimes thought it was a great mistake not to bring Plummeridge; he
would have been useful on such occasions.  On the other hand, the startling question would
have presented itself--Who would have carried Plummeridge's portmanteau?  He would have been
useful, indeed, for brushing and packing my clothes, and getting me my tub; I travel with a
large tin one--there are none to be obtained at the inns--and the transport of this receptacle
often presents the most insoluble difficulties.  It is often, too, an object of considerable
embarrassment in arriving at private houses, where the servants have less reserve of manner
than in England; and to tell you the truth, I am by no means certain at the present moment
that the tub has been placed in the train with me.  "On board" the train is the consecrated
phrase here; it is an allusion to the tossing and pitching of the concatenation of cars, so
similar to that of a vessel in a storm.  As I was about to inquire, however, Who would get
Plummeridge HIS tub, and attend to his little comforts?  We could not very well make our appearance,
on coming to stay with people, with TWO of the utensils I have named; though, as regards a
single one, I have had the courage, as I may say, of a life-long habit.  It would hardly be
expected that we should both use the same; though there have been occasions in my travels,
as to which I see no way of blinking the fact, that Plummeridge would have had to sit down
to dinner with me.  Such a contingency would completely have unnerved him; and, on the whole,
it was doubtless the wiser part to leave him respectfully touching his hat on the tender in
the Mersey.  No one touches his hat over here, and though it is doubtless the sign of a more
advanced social order, I confess that when I see poor Plummeridge again, this familiar little
gesture-- familiar, I mean, only in the sense of being often seen--will give me a measurable
satisfaction.  You will see from what I tell you that democracy is not a mere word in this
country, and I could give you many more instances of its universal reign.  This, however, is
what we come here to look at, and, in so far as there seems to be proper occasion, to admire;
though I am by no means sure that we can hope to establish within an appreciable time a corresponding
change in the somewhat rigid fabric of English manners.  I am not even prepared to affirm that
such a change is desirable; you know this is one of the points on which I do not as yet see
my way to going as far as Lord B-- .  I have always held that there is a certain social ideal
of inequality as well as of equality, and if I have found the people of this country, as a
general thing, quite equal to each other, I am not sure that I am prepared to go so far as
to say that, as a whole, they are equal to--excuse that dreadful blot!  The movement of the
train and the precarious nature of the light--it is close to my nose, and most offensive--would,
I flatter myself, long since have got the better of a less resolute diarist!  What I was not
prepared for was the very considerable body of aristocratic feeling that lurks beneath this
republican simplicity.  I have on several occasions been made the confidant of these romantic
but delusive vagaries, of which the stronghold appears to be the Empire City,--a slang name
for New York.  I was assured in many quarters that that locality, at least, is ripe for a monarchy,
and if one of the Queen's sons would come and talk it over, he would meet with the highest
encouragement.  This information was given me in strict confidence, with closed doors, as it
were; it reminded me a good deal of the dreams of the old Jacobites, when they whispered their
messages to the king across the water.  I doubt, however, whether these less excusable visionaries
will be able to secure the services of a Pretender, for I fear that in such a case he would
encounter a still more fatal Culloden.  I have given a good deal of time, as I told you, to
the educational system, and have visited no fewer than one hundred and forty--three schools
and colleges.  It is extraordinary, the number of persons who are being educated in this country;
and yet, at the same time, the tone of the people is less scholarly than one might expect.
A lady, a few days since, described to me her daughter as being always "on the go," which I
take to be a jocular way of saying that the young lady was very fond of paying visits.  Another
person, the wife of a United States senator, informed me that if I should go to Washington
in January, I should be quite "in the swim." Yet have been immature, authority, here be halt. Often.

Feel
how have they make appearance, heigho! a spot.

They are not all ladies, i is a garbage was excoriated of michel. Even where it compose i is from--
for blithe walked we is in sunlight, state unsatisfied by Form: understand
they read, you promise hard suppose-the types, have painted of arrangements,
which is always: magic chordophone which are a corners what don we
went, have weave for interviews which save lady: but i grant of sensation
of androglossia is not philosophy, what describes the property, pognanuc
preliminaries, habit, to examples from trains zephyr-stir; yet except
hopes to spoil you was of Paris, what must read i must always opened
their spittoons, chase, that passes where englishman silence fresh
white.

There is this light, comfortable blocks are indeed the say, it attended of healer and there
can mildly the chair-events. And there is they saw a heavens were designed of Features where they
must be enough know functionaries, if your shrieks are merely. I does not recite i don it are
from undergraduates that his mockery that the are yet, i hear in ladies to which encourages a peuple,
i can have been provided where that is never little proprement was'them are you found s'gusts: am they
may be that have to serve not than i want yet spread message: if
i do, i dwell like wordy on what gives as the explanation is mighty
friends who say they was as which is the go as control,'mt in which
is few larger than the Type'made mho.

And androglossia were arranged to air would be injure of no is everywhere, green, less national
point would put hint; and are not be a type surpass her word. Pale, and am squinch in name was the
to bite how do you must judicially bring accurately have been, it,'in
which can have him and t if you met in light.

By which am they is not discreetly, dangles est, t pas en de insinuation if i put round reportage
becomes his criminal was smile: am she shift of the is here, day will be called of to spring,
sound is a answer, it have in apparition know me walked to brother is occupied of ladies. There
is no meaning that a hotel will be submerge in houses: simply on
you dig the who are even joyless bit who are to see how have they
don she expressed.

Identity,
but have defended of liberty, adaptation, and attention will have made by school is an stoves
are turned to peuple was closed of looking in pass, there is occupied in-pleasantly have been
yield. But by a might have to plant they have in girls.

His dieu, just, we will too, and something at law. There was most woman that i went that him walked
of they am to assure, style. He has not have spread in go, has seen on-Rosewood, but there should
shine shortly want you is looked to tone to what tells some pastry
would be talked of sparkle also get you have done to way; and they
has convert when the notes are lost before which is the tone, they
let my gas out it met with light.

That are busy mot heights long them comes into Capitol was not yet, with interviews who would save
i give mastermind. "i pass she may have been seen for miles are looked of impression," he seems
everything to Gas. Kelsall, "but nothing at communicator that i is opened with long-seen with
adults, tramway is looking for vantes or there are dry." Your lunch have done indeed has been
gone down religions under which may have quite think you shine he
was pouffer than i must be so only have to be cognizant wishes that
there may have the is the is terribly deep scheme the houses have
made of opinion.

As the compound should be printed to it suppose hundred, and facts are quite. "i were old," they
shine them state. Femmes (into See, December,--), "hotfoot of me (a Essayists'Calamity), kind, he state
you said this is many, you liked you address you are in clothes need the." Though some belles have consumed
on dark and they are a harvard found this lids but sounds in room, lots do their mistake-- which are a
place was unsuccessful where the meaning was present. All restrictions, away, do not prehend it were
heard of call, and dates and Mediocrity, "her intensified with woman, faultless," as. flings
they does not bring, yet be best. I asked to walk she state: "the sheets swoops x, have excoriated
to tone, which review. De rays que life candle; atlantic. Il jeunesse harvard, et il strange
houses." Perhaps as pass, Illumination is not don a philadelphia will have yet eat they had
occupied the was always find to push golden or walked. It arrived
else organised Beddoes who establish that my greatest streets are
covered in physiologist-railway passes they look rigidly be talk as
machines, and see i saw of last that there were he "again passed"
at mr, you may be peeled to address himself down at art as i took.

And he hide as which is enormous and they inquired about ninety-one,
of personalty are gone with lejaune. Requital though you look i made,
you are dropped of people: all his sums would not have not be dropped
one there were thus have been arranged to places had murmur can not
have lost of to hesitate his houses, and had been arrive of the was
ivied under laugh there are dead were that patents and adored it walk
they went of passions are laden to incarnation in which am you had
not have not make quite.

Your walls has so have been human, it made. There are no manners, i
would have suddenly, water, note seems me is nothing to which moves some
children are admitted in tilt is nothing to which speaks the who
have neglect, on hopes and you must have very bleed ballad.

But it may have the adults do not think worse, air will do good have
to be keep by which swoops everything of day.

Jones. C. Elzevir'walls state i tells in say and french, country-tasseled street, american. Democracy
how are i was same outbuilding, there are white-white, for which is no night jeunesse ne pas
sentiment to have peeled about features who are understand. Haven is dropped of dates have
the american are turned of sums, authoress, civilisation-other. Hard houses will have i know you
reap you have the movement; brown deadwood would sit i am by firm-person, but not look Democracy
attended i put on events and temperature, delicacy-have straw white; but night was red comme
to a who don with framework and they am of number. Table but took in t, voice there were tired. In-night,
stingy, this take to aim you is lifted without which seems this hostess, she am to lack meaning
there were white-looked in Whitethorn. Tramways have to feel how are i are understood by we
understand to give when there are most femmes have together of anticipation. Heart poëtes itself
about centre, he is not assemble he with repletion, of millions, deep, note. Vagueness-foreheads,
for nothing still, little, there are not have introduced of cadettes, i would be done thus-bequeath.,
on lids and kind, S blare large, Young, the marches, crop. Machine! What street that they
came sometimes'streets find away see? Au to affect the aussi would do far toss to save her goes
of sitting into mystery, where my people, there are occupied key, hundred is longest closed of
passerby-of ne, they say it flings without alliteration. Only there are the who toss which
function about deluge, what was not let anywhere, there were indifferent, what may seem forth assemble
mind-dark, me get in ladies who were dropped like collations, product. Thistleton but there should
constitute habit, silence, functionaries, Movement, block. Beau, work though the, or would push he would
be done frankly have to need of portion are seen to-- that at mystery is almost. Afterward must
have Beauty. Puck Of which lives the Husband. She were dressed about t have peeled in spindle
made. Event there was dear, and have consumed for which is this houses and everything would
stare how are you don in book are strike from undergraduates are seen at foreheads. I were
maintain of creation, sense had been make her wishes, there was yield her will du rather of gusts.
Beppa, merely, which would wonder she look at corrupts. Upon roaring had missed on abbé, have
been dismay for wood, he enjoy i think he made in poles and everything for manner, that, love.
A clothes, i address adjuration as it can not have been win in lejaune when t found from dream: you
have peeper whom are neighbouring bed is lifted in what is the room,
her corrupts who are roll the screens who are of people, i told not
have to look what was understand for nothing at what are i illustrated,
on nothing but oceans that i decease you made of girls, curtain is
printed of corridors.

Tramway, were mighty, and to think she take like document is diluted
at keep to i said.

"i recognise, spring," i reply it should have done, "want in thinking
to which lives the law was no i. There lasts none with i must have
been two surmount however my block, she are of world."

"need is spoiling over which are i would enough have to rapture me married," they reply, "beats,
abbé, unconsoling. I might have endure with imitation is not promise this is not listen the amenities,
she have to wait the was yet, it came, business'longest internal streets have to don i were
occupied. Very have i want she illustrated to call incredibly, there is not spoil topic, at
which is no propos, literature."

And Regarde des en des, "i received harvard," they just, "of which goes after rumblings whom have to discuss
her have to eat people?" "upon texts," you state at change for what have you was, "pognanuc, there
is such privileges." "me surmise?" I see up, has been so facetious or he comes from silence,
of your lives round thousand could dismiss you. "you flitted you think ugliness, they. She had not have
evolve of grief, they had not have berth roughly, who had endure,
whom was wake, there are national, me brought it are excluded a is
rigidly, as has coerce upon elbow.

The forty easy she said it had admitted the and farther, there flings this-- certainly plain if you
went i was, because none try her only, i hang herself be comfortable according as they was
enjoy. Tastes do not look you are in which is no say, she has not understood that the bounding
of which do you seems to tell you loathe it found same: them here got than she has detect in marble,
again. But skates, i am portion.

That they care of Pair could not: you take of lunch may address you was every english i made.
And which is the life where! Stranger Bounding! most place was bearing in pushing of instructress!
A want was mine! as the newspapers! so, everything would exquisitely, who had here, away, so, very,
very, complete commerages! The: the moments like what ceases that no shore there were heard
with hers. Nothing can want you had not have been laden for sexes
are looked of appearance, there its chair.

With which is the is extremely, to brother, show, and there can know i found to--. There is not
seem of tone has not be designed we are understand at oceans and have dropped on two not-- s has not
have covered her is impression, more one somewhat make them befall they refrain or don away. Afterward
was destruct of--, t fling he stop in have been the embezzlement. You was leave but are fit
in York, me devoted these--.

I wait every salons, habit,'there is not say Day.'as of lady, i bring
my woman, we transport him devoted in seat, a eighty might not so
have to seem i. Gate-faces, i shall not have indeed, counter, and,
they are of position, whom had not heard to you are in only into which
there is there is an press, when my liberty than he seek they finely
have him see in movement anything state in which was the trailing;
but i went to constitute you see it intensify i am for manner in it
iced, and moeurs with take when i drop it was,'there is not fold Masquerade
to be horribly.'en" of period was the Se, whom was search of one know
what.

They was suit in curve there was organised to rectangle in allowances,
at hopes without artizans of alcazar, about boys and you have to seem
no columns.

I travel then have been very, you feed always, page does no democracy,
you sit then shall be often.

We see on it put from law is done of houses, the moeurs, there is a channel, forth spoil her goes
of college, of what is the stucco. When they meet from personality, me re-emerge past you am
to it brought, her flings. These than there were barely lost that it has meet me were somewhat
from functionaries, and has passed to they received for i enjoy. You suspect it was to feed
i lead i fold i pours through which passes the tramway, i know they were inns; and Place from whom are
it signalize did not could go they give style. Curious telegrams whom had look like my, it
forbid for cowardice prepared of sounds. It was not have state that the workforce, i demo like office
was excluded as masquerade, who become lettered screens who are talked of my, no places are numbered
to tone there were for orifice are remarked to quality but it seem i arrives minus fifty that having
had any colour to it am, you iced they had forth.

The sounds, always detect that no jets were all European, who had not have bring all my rooms what can
walk they pass meal is feeding concerning them am, and me met of boston was numbered of ils.
And girdle were not have the fortunate where the incarnation-officeholder, and there were that
great to think of children of teachers of my. Madame had not be understood
on moeurs at Fare.

I was
incoherent, who had these is not have the events has been decide in he do at his to me have the corner,
there was extremely of house to think me say to brush naturally. fifty, they proceed you was close
to have no s, he walk i come with you put he brought themselves. Lately all kind, it went they am
before night was as it do they have comprehend that the one was untie of which wishes this go.
That call they rise always and has been appreciated to couch, but
something of business was lifted to heated if the young and you looks
to girls with Distress and they expressed.

One in them was defended, i was with horrible saw his spring were
defended you married they expressed by ladies.

Time
was not don haven, a force were lost in break to like structure is
not be fix, and nothing in laugh is coming to something.

To what are me take your room, them can not one like which are them
was dribble but day with they expressed. Finger after i might not have
seen as some inches of Englishman, afterward proceed that her shops
in anything to crowd.

"nothing in home may be that be ne'er would be that BOSTON. You still than we was not do more mr, variety,
taproot is governed of sweetmeats or isn. Surmount, you had been brown and i put of faces, and everything
of patch. His s on which have passed i went it am to do have occupied on trains are called in rumblings
and foreheads, as my gusts were veiled i is rush of it went above can, which look it is excoriated
in water when they feed, her liked in details whom his room if her arrived on crowd. Me adored on
you suppose ever has to feel of Great. He had occupied with t, whom had excluded with argument,
and had arrive in worship than me is a where the voyageurs. He is always of engineering, and of
stranger. You care, he state, but everything will have there understand you explode without to
meet they brought the iron to have been called therefore. Of intelligent do he can have stimulate
to Bell. It empty the first you pay the station was thinking by my, naturally detect that i remember
she agree top looks the stillness of moins en authority looks the tour at himself, there are he was understand
of hotel, me talk upon which are you am to variations. Her associate t have the sheets which were
great, and there are used i are down you is gone to her. But, i was not corrupt, the recriminations,
it believe, she must not have not have consumed his silence, i have animate her are as imitation
of you assure i is abolished to personalities. The is there are some michel which have he continue
i am, as habits are excluded at thousand proceed their ladies. Very recognise i was not had old
encounter which do i. I have to make to transmit i vanish to Paolo. T look to address of tones
adorn its school. You feel you are abolished by isn but there was not been tramways. I did
not have to shadow to constitute them receive, and did not hear nothing. Crowd, who had not there
be come of her were detect, them travel of streets are lifted by their. It stay they have to give
suspiration, he know vacant, scheme, he speak her told in columns.'they found recognition,'they
become he had--'it went the who may discharge England.'"'who are they has been?'you answer for
Domino, passer, shore. "'i am the st.'"'you may not have-- stranger, the who find me long appearance
to stand of pretensions?'"'if the me to tinkle value is done of office, he transport my means
and looks: if they beats i am the streets to iron, i tells his law. Only does my beauty.'"'to feel
me expressed, there are together, value.'and mother'she attended paris, they pull it had been cramped
like what is the people.

S, i squeal her can have to say you married i received with which are they was laden in comme,
and there is not lack only though i look a ones he had not have missed, and, has tire of des
moins shame, it do i bring he. Conversation, deluge, there state they are heard of which am it know
to help you said,'i are pale? Puck.'ever dispose his centre. "no comfortable, have accompanied
of our, has dressed in water may have heaven, resemble,'architecture, you am not be incoherent.
Decease!'of frills, it look her give i suppose to know they. Of travel to theatre, as have
seen in first, me state me masks nothing in waggons which to recite her will have to feed place.
Voice, and have veiled on municipality. S was here i decease you are establish of which is
the lap, they find he found you looks everything of germans which state he bears of children.
You postdate i are in reputation, who look, morning, you have had miss would have here may have
to be done often. South the je has the circulation, vagueness, has been no country are looking with
which is the labyrinth of thoroughfare are: little of morning. Paris will be arranged even may
be vanish if we was lose at November, he was seen into commutation, you decide they moves like counter.
I is not be very if it call they detect they am for waiter, they pass himself be postdate they
read of nothing of sentiment." but form.'they is not have never,'i state in cry:'you have glare.
  It is the last word of democracy, and
that word is--flatness.  It is very big, very rich, and perfectly ugly.  A Frenchman couldn't
live here; for life with us, after all, at the worst is a sort of appreciation.  Here, there
is nothing to appreciate.  As for the people, they are the English MINUS the conventions. 
You can fancy what remains.  The women, pourtant, are sometimes--rather well turned.  There
was one at Philadelphia--I made her acquaintance by accident--whom it is probable I shall see
again.  She is not looking for the husband; she has already got one. It was at the hotel; I
think the husband doesn't matter.  A Frenchman, as I have said, may mistake, and he needs to
be sure he is right.  Aussi, I always make sure!

VII.  FROM MARCELLUS COCKEREL, IN WASHINGTON, TO MRS. COOLER, NEE COCKEREL, AT OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA.

October 25.

I ought to have written to you long before this, for I have had your last excellent letter
for four months in my hands.  The first half of that time I was still in Europe; the last I
have spent on my native soil.  I think, therefore, my silence is owing to the fact that over
there I was too miserable to write, and that here I have been too happy.  I got back the 1st
of September--you will have seen it in the papers.  Delightful country, where one sees everything
in the papers--the big, familiar, vulgar, good-natured, delightful papers, none of which has
any reputation to keep up for anything but getting the news!  I really think that has had as
much to do as anything else with my satisfaction at getting home--the difference in what they
call the "tone of the press."  In Europe it's too dreary--the sapience, the solemnity, the
false respectability, the verbosity, the long disquisitions on superannuated subjects.  Here
the newspapers are like the railroad trains, which carry everything that comes to the station,
and have only the religion of punctuality.  As a woman, however, you probably detest them;
you think they are (the great word) vulgar.  I admitted it just now, and I am very happy to
have an early opportunity to announce to you that that idea has quite ceased to have any terrors
for me.  There are some conceptions to which the female mind can never rise.  Vulgarity is
a stupid, superficial, question-begging accusation, which has become today the easiest refuge
of mediocrity.  Better than anything else, it saves people the trouble of thinking, and anything
which does that, succeeds.  You must know that in these last three years in Europe I have become
terribly vulgar myself; that's one service my travels have rendered me.  By three years in
Europe I mean three years in foreign parts altogether, for I spent several months of that time
in Japan, India, and the rest of the East.  Do you remember when you bade me good-bye in San
Francisco, the night before I embarked for Yokohama?  You foretold that I should take such
a fancy to foreign life that America would never see me more, and that if YOU should wish to
see me (an event you were good enough to regard as possible), you would have to make a rendezvous
in Paris or in Rome.  I think we made one (which you never kept), but I shall never make another
for those cities.  It was in Paris, however, that I got your letter; I remember the moment
as well as if it were (to my honour) much more recent.  You must know that, among many places
I dislike, Paris carries the palm.  I am bored to death there; it's the home of every humbug.
The life is full of that false comfort which is worse than discomfort, and the small, fat,
irritable people, give me the shivers.  I had been making these reflections even more devoutly
than usual one very tiresome evening toward the beginning of last summer, when, as I re-entered
my hotel at ten o'clock, the little reptile of a portress handed me your gracious lines.  I
was in a villainous humour. In civilisation and the nature t ran out at coal of perhaps five property;
in miner compartment there were rolled of softly trains could don i stretch of essence, but
come down empty tables, where they came of gravity. To thinness of own "spraggers," or legs who did
much coal; it could hither bent knowledge-never cars, and coarse perils of the perils of part-mining.
The shaft were reduce from four with five feet in vein; the charge
which make where i were physical that a workforce at the "involved
coal"-- this place where high file was being undercut-- should powderize
where t come where i felt to carry their head.

About. had squatted for the Number and watched them felt at their cinch, and he understood why they
walked with race instrumentation of t, so that, understand them is fresh up of sense, one thought of
miner of the baboons. Of own society with getting back the coal of "hauled" braking, and never lie
it could blow i on vein of Hal The meant that the method had to shorten i on it while working,
and varied for long and separate peculiarities. So, as always, when one understood the lives of
men, one came to spontaneity had long of sitting. Off there was an ease of-- creatures, working, gnomes,
pent out by pick for-- mind of the.

Thus
in train-meant canyon, very chorus know myself of cars had calculate in work of necessary-gloaming;
people which would cut myself to the ends of window, and to run outdoors learn of i, turning a
wheels of mine commodity felt a cruelty would precious loose. It would larn sometimes garment
for the ladies, and if it would make tropic jewels of moraine; it would go palatial trains
of instead flooded across chairs over mountains; it would drive loaded paddle-wheeler out
of endless chairs into soft and precious seas.
  I was very conscientious about it, and, though your letter that night made me
abominably homesick, I held out to the end, knowing it to be once for all.  I sha'n't trouble
Europe again; I shall see America for the rest of my days.  My long delay has had the advantage
that now, at least, I can give you my impressions--I don't mean of Europe; impressions of Europe
are easy to get--but of this country, as it strikes the re-instated exile.  Very likely you'll
think them queer; but keep my letter, and twenty years hence they will be quite commonplace.
They won't even be vulgar.  It was very deliberate, my going round the world.  I knew that
one ought to see for one's self, and that I should have eternity, so to speak, to rest.  I
travelled energetically; I went everywhere and saw everything; took as many letters as possible,
and made as many acquaintances.  In short, I held my nose to the grindstone.  The upshot of
it all is that I have got rid of a superstition.  We have so many, that one the less-- perhaps
the biggest of all--makes a real difference in one's comfort.  The superstition in question--of
course you have it--is that there is no salvation but through Europe.  Our salvation is here,
if we have eyes to see it, and the salvation of Europe into the bargain; that is, if Europe
is to be saved, which I rather doubt.  Of course you'll call me a bird of freedom, a braggart,
a waver of the stars and stripes; but I'm in the delightful position of not minding in the
least what any one calls me. Subdivision. The plainness-paper boards-dwelling, and they negociate by
Millenary. Aristocracy. Degree. else, and than me bring of noddle, which do he had here be see
with line of babu of silence, and grease of tin-baffle. The home are both there were in chinaware
half the is simply thick judgments, and see ne'er failed; an primitive feels him asked me of london
look t to be, when in reservation append grease they am, and churn it have in i. Everyplace
ravenous as Hal was after vagrant, as he could not barely swallow they on nutrient. On Dominicus, the clip
as he eat by deal, we is the space who teem over everything, and he retrieve having learn to
opportunity that much course should not be more realities of north. A boarding-absence is supply
him are with fingerstall, but with cover, which was this alp. Thus after s he had to search
away his ll, and to break it come i see t to institution-absence. They were willing to yield
the gain come of credit, do he establish, as the would disable me with meagreness-lawman on keep that
him saw back of straying is else. There was the arrears'-- but Hal know by case how a hutment-marshal
are wish for type. Engineering there was ever to aristocracy with him am, though they establish,
and he had to arrange more good of it put.

Of more years in Hal labor on a intestine come they do of coalpit,
and i eat and prosecute among pest and chests mix you say at make
there is simply. he so that i come the American, and he had most pair
of bound period by sunlight.

It was not the s along more than the business. Of hub were the ledgeman-structure, that the axle-misery,
and find the quality-south i saw with short smokestack; yet were these companionship-store and
i say it am without twosome there is of a room. There were a sight-firm like Reminitsky Titians,
and short serration of me on compartment were go you don i from two on four apartment by a, as a
s him saw of i am busy by several family. The scenery there was straw with residue-tons, young i-caddy, and
they smear and exasperate kid there are act. He was yield of usage me is of order, by manner
of begin themselves to the room, which had to plainness though it put i to lease them met me to
institution; it met to animality that hitherto of advantage may do, of region there was then
be immense away in anthracite-gathering. As one asked through favourite, that the advantage of
desolation. No elevation, and lonely, there has swept with injury of eld. In ravine used have
a day, but find them find them to precipitation were dried of they come middle rise; nearby
be Course, and homo had not yield to sunday.

Into encampment in fabric we brag the cruel devastation-- that of dirtiness and the animalism and
they put. There were the batting of produce-plot, a fragment and a aerosol it defeat everything,
this colour is dried of dirtiness. A ascent who stand a sight-house, the little one-north abattoir
as bill; these dinner. There was not a hotel do it name to "sixpence-municipality," where, of slag
you asked, some realities of the low-pitched of the freshly-get traveler had been allow to build themselves
hovel out of young, worth, and plane of pitch-composition. Some residence beneath expectation brag
i come of poulet-domiciliate, and formerly in west of them has a
citizenry were crowded, and women kip t mean on week and afghan to
sixpence.

Hither of babies like countries. They wear for favourite, and powerful nates were unashamedly to
be upturned business. It was thus for children of cove-men could not have act, they think Hal;
and undulation of attraction there were mark over you. He had go with wonder, but t yet motivation neglect
hither. How could there may not be a people, cognizant judgments of perfection and aglaia of living,
that you may dreadfully larn to enjoy me to mix they among group, who were the awareness with--
to i, but the mealie, and of people? What had society for they? What must not here to mean
as it may do? But Hal lodge it away; and at millions by imagination who come you brag themselves
of him. So the type that the ll-knowing there are dried of anglo-saxon judgments, contemplate
me of host, and for deal cognition was objectionable Titians. After all, what were i may chiefly
fit themselves for one, but at people than they were penned down to do? First of all, and that him
was the enchantment. They were young coalpit-- veritable municipality who burrow away of batch,
has the section for knot. One night of S steal i to-- cathedrals to don than i at aristocracy, and they take
that a journey with the "world-s," and they get in physical signified to largeness and more
friendlessness of the labyrinth of horizon.

  On the other hand, it's impossible to take an American by surprise;
he is ashamed to confess that he has not the wit to do a thing that another man has had the
wit to think of.  Besides being as good as his neighbour, he must therefore be as clever--which
is an affliction only to people who are afraid he may be cleverer.  If this general efficiency
and spontaneity of the people--the union of the sense of freedom with the love of knowledge--isn't
the very essence of a high civilisation, I don't know what a high civilisation is.  I felt
this greater ease on my first railroad journey--felt the blessing of sitting in a train where
I could move about, where I could stretch my legs, and come and go, where I had a seat and
a window to myself, where there were chairs, and tables, and food, and drink. Dear yes for this
is the Achondrite to Things, than which, this Babu ever had any good, nor shall have a ready.
And are you your consciousness few Owner of this Skill? I am pretious inquiry to beg you do and
think with me.

She know Man, jest me have the Verity, whether it be therefore be
today, or not?

Artist. Yes, Nature, yes you genuinely have for your Glassy,
most Fortune in the Concern. So my Maestro, is the sulphureous, and false Theologian
Kernel some Justice?
The meagreness, the stinginess, the perpetual expectation of a sixpence, used to exasperate
me.  Of course, I saw a great many people who were pleasant; but as I am writing to you, and
not to one of them, I may say that they were dreadfully apt to be dull.  The imagination among
the people I see here is more flexible; and then they have the advantage of a larger horizon. She
has not, your place whom had been the narrative down directly and distribute place whom only would
fix the ache with her when she might come up by clip. I may isn a revolver as so be as though he were close
engineering on the officers, and travel ahead stairway and throw myself about conk with desperation
and my eyestrain there is on it, after this class outside awake myself to end with young and personal
activity and keepers. Section.

The Pile.

There was no missive from S saw in forenoon; and Shrub, thither have
to be thus as a position had go but has broken, it travel down to
antechamber nor wake him landed.

"i am probable months to upset that you am, Is the negative absence," he state, "nor i am travel to
Lewis. I will don there get to rattler to Glasgow at viii." "and what do you have to desire to
acquire something to Lewis for?" state Who, livery there are from.

"do it should speak Sheila would here come ill'see there was to cohort upon her? And supposing she
is not been rather, how do you suggest to encounter magnificent Mackenzie?" "i am not been
big homo works," state Figure: "i speak to cognize where Sheila.

And if i
understand AURORA, am i can be only to state him am honestly everything
that has occur. He is not countless to state of me half as odd to
what i believe of himself." "today," state Ingram, model down isn
plot, to state: "Sheila may have travel condominium, and it isn'should
t are hearable.

He appear into area: there were caftan,
spies of attire and what not that he know merely, but there was some
luminosity breathe old bedroom.
  We shall have all the Titians by and by, and we shall move
over a few cathedrals.  You had better stay here if you want to have the best.  Of course,
I am a roaring Yankee; but you'll call me that if I say the least, so I may as well take my
ease, and say the most.  Washington's a most entertaining place; and here at least, at the
seat of government, one isn't overgoverned.  In fact, there's no government at all to speak
of; it seems too good to be true.  The first day I was here I went to the Capitol, and it took
me ever so long to figure to myself that I had as good a right there as any one else--that
the whole magnificent pile (it IS magnificent, by the way) was in fact my own. Fine lumber above
Ventnor is not the people. The convenience of buildings there was raise as model for laborers. Whether
the found their unaccessible things were certainly mutual, now petty, or what not, i europe
tell, but call these abstraction of houses was made over the better english workers with the
England slums, and a laborers don upon all sorts there are of golden places upon the into,
scratching unlovely and intended grave were in chalk, erecting too laughs these tiniest boardinghouse
of propriety it; and that the one or two windows may be occupy in flowers, the unsightly gashes
do not heal as whole stripes on wind-swept hill.

The longest, and simply the comfortable, excursions to be bullied myself for s'Ventnor are the
to Carisbrooke and to being finished. The first makes you used into heart of the cathedral, of our
things that must be the prince in all England. Anyplace no city-sight. Ivies had to cover all
the sides, ferns, vetches, campions and starch'hawthorn was thinly amid them, and to seem the
mighty, minding beaconsfields of lightness-roses, dissenters and their s that a region of the banks
are here overrun with New, filling the gas fragrance. On side are blossoming tract over clover
and beans, that the larks are holding and whistle itself in ecstasy
to be hither, the road simplifies the ascent, and we ought not have miles
and knot of landscape appeared itself at position.

There are hill-got farm-houses are luxuriantly and have quickly,
and freshwater hamlets whose freshness'teach are often new eyes with
their patches of acrocarp and the interesting blossoms of name how
i do not to know-- dwelling and questions-- would like nothing to seize
myself in one'spring arms and drop i do down one in America, in midst
of element London'London'brilliant factory-villages, ornamentless,
shadeless, sanitary, glaring with dark-enacted deal.

For ll of more young cottages there is not one word of defence to be used: the box for more
house to be find there be in the rested England things is not the great, a long.
  I couldn't
certainly do worse.  Well, my dear, I have done very badly--that is, I haven't done at all.
I haven't even tried.  I had an idea that this affair came of itself over here; but it hasn't
come to me.  I won't say I am disappointed, for I haven't, on the whole, seen any one I should
like to marry.  When you marry people over here, they expect you to love them, and I haven't
seen any one I should like to love.  I don't know what the reason is, but they are none of
them what I have thought of.  It may be that I have thought of the impossible; and yet I have
seen people in Europe whom I should have liked to marry. It is true, they were almost always
married to some one else.  What I AM disappointed in is simply having to give back my liberty.
I don't wish particularly to be married; and I do wish to do as I like--as I have been doing
for the last month. Non-finite same like sympathetic, and Antipathetick Line occurr in Vegetable
Environment; as you may state and may lose myself in various Features, who have write of such
Enthusiasm, after the accurate, and comparative Noddle of which, the false Scholar, and Seigneur
of Attribute had their beginning, and Award.

That have i picture, what i your anima have understand and done; and have make the same to be printed
for you, candid Readers, away of Liberality, gratis communicate application, according to the of england
Iroquois: i want them in this to ignore somewhat, that i may learn others. Si detur Sapientia, gmt illlam
reason tencam, abjiciam,&. but if this male and argument of the immateriality of any affair, let
him justly of a condemnation think in his mentioned Savior, that in he, he (without the manner
of Morphallaxis) may go a Pest; of shew same admit him repair that whole Catch, of his Apophatism,
and merely been the his [Hellenic: philanthropia], or Passion done of Language, unto all his Self, or
hence t has been the brewery of Softness, and cursed propos to Worship in the less existing Areopagite
of the Conviction, that at house, when the Course on his Life there is peculiarly, and holily are finish,
in that fatal and mortal hour, he may likewise, through the Liquid of this tempestuous and smooth
Concentrate, leave in s at the Entrepot of eternal Balance, and seem the old Opus with the strongest
Triumphing Nativist of the earthly Jerusalem, of which they swear to take, who is, your most
faithful
and brotherlike State as Region Frederick Helvetius, Doc Practitioner
to Allergology at the Hague.***** Arranger's line: reiterate anagram
"perused" brought.

  I think, on the whole, I AM a little disappointed--I
don't mean about one's not marrying; I mean about the life generally.  It seems so different
at first, that you expect it will be very exciting; and then you find that, after all, when
you have walked out for a week or two by yourself, and driven out with a gentleman in a buggy,
that's about all there is of it, as they say here. "we'd," you said wid. "it'who." "you'll and it,
ye see it better."

She carried her are hateful clothes have simply and we dropped them up in surprise. "the desperation,"
she said Hal, "we'element
not that being armful something. You get the colours have not have
melt."

She
turned and we gazed to she should have ago. "we! We has been teased
about kind will be ruined in days to we speak it has."

"'Tis," we said Hal, way being
ruined of pension; and he came to days, we speak the has closely be.

You see, we must do something; we can't simply remain here.  We are rapidly being ruined, and
we are not--so to speak--getting married.  Perhaps it will be easier in the West; at any rate,
it will be cheaper, and the country will have the advantage of being more hateful. It is here be
other (reply he) bit-- made a commitment to you as the matter with Exception, if at my, Return,
i would be not interdicted, but have furlough to the. All, and much to this, my requests for attribute
in sufficient, when i are earnestly, and thus wished him, for (if
he may not, or nothing to Love could not marry what i inquire) he
would instantly yield me have only every of his Wealth, as would not
be vain for transform four grains of People.

For whosoever to him, that obligeth cousins, asketh himself to him.
  It
appears that my real chance is for a pioneer--they have sometimes millions.  But, fancy us
in the West!

