I, who have the honour of speaking to you to-day in the name of the Government and who have
at my back the strongest majority that was ever known in Belgium, owe it to truth to say that
our opinions have not a corresponding preponderance in the country; and I believe that, if
that majority were always correctly expressed, we should gain in stability what we might lose
in apparent strength. Gentlemen, in the actual state of things, to whom belongs the Government
of the country? It belongs to some two or three thousand electors, who assuredly are neither
the best nor the most intelligent, who turn the scale at each of our scrutin de liste elections.
I see to the right and to the left two large armies--Catholics and Liberals--of force almost
equal, whom nothing would tempt to desert their standard, who serve it with devotion and from
conviction. Well, these great armies do not count, or scarcely count. On the day of battle
it is as if they do not exist. What counts, what decides, what triumphs, is another body of
electors altogether--a floating body too often swayed by their passions, by their prejudices;
or, worse still, by their interests. These are our masters, and according as they veer from
right to left, or from left to right, the Government of the country changes, and its history
takes a new direction. Gentlemen, is it well that it should be so? Is it well that this country
should be at the mercy of such contemptible elements as these?

How often have I longed to see a Premier in this, my adopted country, rise to such fervid heights
of patriotism as this?

M. Bernhaert is right. It is the party Government that is essentially the weak Government.
It cannot afford to estrange or offend any one who commands votes. It is said that every prominent
politician in the British House of Commons is being perpetually tempted and tormented by his
friends not to be honest, and perpetually assailed by his enemies in order to be made to appear
to be dishonest. The Opposition is prepared to trip up the Ministry at every step. It exaggerates
mistakes, misrepresents motives, and combats measures which it believes to be good, if these
are brought forward by its opponents. It bullies in public and undermines in secret. It is
always ready to step into the shoes of the Ministry, to undergo similar treatment. This is
the sort of strength which is supposed to be imperilled if the nation were equitably represented
in the Legislature. In the present state of the world, especially in the Australian States,
where the functions of government have multiplied and are multiplying, it is of the first importance
that the administration should be watched from all sides, and not merely from the point of
view of those who wish to sit on the Treasury benches. The right function of the Opposition
is to see that the Government does the work of the country well. The actual practice of the
Opposition is to try to prevent it from doing the country's work at all. In order that government
should be honest, intelligent, and economical, it needs helpful criticism rather than unqualified
opposition; and this criticism may be expected from the less compact and more independent ranks
in a legislative body which truly represents all the people. Party discipline, which is almost
inevitable in the present struggle for ascendancy or defeat, is the most undemocratic agency
in the world. It is rather by liberating all votes and allowing them to group themselves according
to conviction that a real government of the people by the people can be secured. When I look
back on the intention of the framers of the Commonwealth Constitution to create in the Senate
a States' rights House I am amazed at the remoteness of the intention from the achievement.
The Senate is as much a party House as is the House of Representatives. Nothing, perhaps, describes
the position better than the epigrammatic if somewhat triumphant statement of a Labour Senator
some time ago. "The Senate was supposed to be a place where the radical legislation of the
Lower Chamber could be cooled off, but they had found that the saucer was hotter than the cup."

The long illness and death of my ward, Mrs. Hood, once more gave to my life a new direction.
History was repeating itself. Just as 40 years earlier Mrs. Hood and her brothers had been
left in my charge on the death of their mother, so once again a dying mother begged me to accept
the guardianship of her three orphan children. Verging as they were on the threshold of manhood
and womanhood, they scarcely needed the care and attention due to smaller children, but I realized
I think to the full, what so many parents have realized--that the responsibilities for the
training of children of an older growth are greater and more burdensome than the physical care
of the infant. The family belongings were gathered in from the four quarters of the globe to
which they had been scattered on my giving up housekeeping, and we again began a family life
in Kent Town. Soon after we had settled, the motion in charge of the Hon. D. M. Charleston
in favour of the adoption of proportional representation for Federal elections was carried
to a successful issue in the Legislative Council. The Hon. A. A. Kirkpatrick suggested the
advisableness of preparing a Bill at this stage. A motion simply affirming a principle, he
said, was not likely to carry the cause much further, as it left the question of the application
of the principle too much an open one. The league, he thought, should have something definite
to put before candidates, so that a definite answer could be obtained from them. In New Zealand,
Mr. O'Regan, a well-known solicitor, had also introduced into the House of Representatives
during 1898 a Bill for the adoption of effective voting. Unfortunately members had become wedded
to single electorates, and when a change was made it was to second ballots--a system of voting
which has for long been discredited on the Continent. In France, it was stated in the debates
on electoral reform in 1909, for 20 years, under second ballots, only once had a majority outside
been represented by a majority inside the Chamber, and the average representation for the two
decades had amounted to only 45 per cent. of the voters. Writing to me after the New Zealand
elections in 1909, the Hon. George Fowlds (Minister of Education), who has long supported effective
voting, said, "The only result of the second ballot system in New Zealand has been to strengthen
the movement in favour of proportional representation." And Mr. Paul, a Labour member in the
Dominion, is making every effort to have effective voting included in the platform of the New
Zealand Labour Party. Further encouragement to continue our work came when Belgium adopted
the principle of proportional representation in 1898.

The closing year of the century found the Effective Voting League in the thick of its first
election campaign. There is little doubt that the best time for advancing a political reform
is during an election, and it was interesting to note how many candidates came to our support.
We had an interesting meeting at Parliament House for members just about that time. An opponent
of the reform, who was present, complained that we were late in beginning our meeting. "We
always begin punctually under the present system," he remarked. "Yes," some one replied, "but
we always finish so badly." "Oh, I always finish well enough," was the pert rejoinder; "I generally
come out on top." "Ah," retorted the other, "I was thinking of the electors." But the doubter
did not come out on top at a subsequent election, and his defeat was probably the means of
his discovering defects in the old system that no number of successes would have led him into
acknowledging. From the two or three members who had supported Mr. Glynn in the previous Parliament
we increased our advocates in the Assembly during the campaign to 14. The agitation had been
very persistent among the electors, and their approval of the reform was reflected in the minds
of their representatives. We inaugurated during that year the series of citizens' meetings
convened by the Mayors of the city and suburbs, which has been so successful a feature of our
long campaign for electoral justice, and at the present time very few of the mayoral chairs
are occupied by men who are not keen supporters of effective voting.

The Hon. Theodore Bruce's connection with the reform dates from that year, when he presided
at a meeting in the Adelaide Town Hall during the temporary absence of the Mayor. A consistent
supporter of effective voting from that time, it was only natural that when in May, 1909, the
candidature of Mr. Bruce (who was then and is now a Vice-President of the league). for a seat
in the Legislative Council, gave us an opportunity for working for his return, against a candidate
who had stated that he was not satisfied with the working of the system of effective voting,
we availed ourselves of it. So much has been written and said about the attitude of the league
with regard to Parliamentary candidates that, as its President, I feel that I ought to take
this opportunity of stating our reasons for that attitude. From its inception the league has
declined to recognise parties in a contest at all. Its sole concern has been, and must be to
support effective voters, to whatever party they may belong. To secure the just representation
of the whole electorate of whatever size, is the work of the Effective Voting League, and,
whatever the individual opinions of the members may be, as an official body they cannot help
any candidate who opposes the reform for which they stand.

I remember meeting at a political meeting during a subsequent general election a lady whom
I had known as an almost rabid Kingstonian. But the party had failed to find a position for
her son in the Civil Service, although their own sons were in that way satisfactorily provided
for. So she had thrown in her lot with the other side, which at the time happened to gain a
few seats, and the lady was quite sure that her influence had won the day for her former opponents.
Leaning forward to whisper as if her next remark were too delicate for the ears of a gentleman
sitting near, she said, "Do you know, I don't believe the Premier has any backbone!" I laughed,
and said that I thought most people held the same belief. To my amusement and astonishment
she then asked quite seriously, "Do you think that is why he stoops so much?" There was no
doubt in her mind that the missing back bone had reference to the physical and not to the moral
malformation of the gentleman in question.

CHAPTER XXII.

A VISIT TO NEW SOUTH WALES.

Early in the year 1900 the Hon. B. R. Wise, then Attorney-General of New South Wales, suggested
a campaign for effective voting in the mother State, with the object of educating the people,
so that effective voting might be applied for the first Federal elections. Mrs. Young and I
left Adelaide on May 10 of that year to inaugurate the movement in New South Wales. During
the few hours spent in Melbourne Professor Nanson, the Victorian leader of the reform, with
another earnest worker (Mr. Bowditch), called on us, and we had a pleasant talk over the proposed
campaign. The power of The Age had already been felt, when, at the convention election, the
10 successful candidates were nominees of that paper, and at that time it was a sturdy opponent
of proportional representation. The Argus, on the other hand, had done yeoman service in the
advocacy of the reform from the time that Tasmania had so successfully experimented with the
system. As we were going straight through to Sydney, we were able only to suggest arrangements
for a possible campaign on our return. Our Sydney visit lasted eight weeks, during which time
we addressed between 20 and 30 public meetings. Our welcome to the harbour city was most enthusiastic,
and our first meeting, held in the Protestant Hall, on the Wednesday after our arrival, with
the Attorney-General in the chair, was packed. The greatest interest was shown in the counting
of the 387 votes taken at the meeting. Miss Rose Scott, however, had paved the way for the
successful public meeting by a reception at her house on the previous Monday, at which we met
Mr. Wise, Sir William McMillan, Mr. (afterwards Sr. Walker), Mr. (now Sir A. J.) Gould, Mr.
Bruce Smith, Mr. W. Holman, and several other prominent citizens. The reform was taken up earnestly
by most of these gentlemen. Sir William McMillan was appointed the first President of the league,
which was formed before we left Sydney. During the first week of our visit we dined with Dr.
and Mrs. Garran, who, with their son (Mr. Robert Garran, C.M.G., afterwards the collaborateur
of Sir John Quick in the compilation of the "Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth"),
were keen supporters of effective voting. Among the host of well-known people who came after
dinner to meet us was Mr. (now Sir) George Reid, with whom we had an interesting talk over
the much-discussed "Yes-No" Policy. We had both opposed the Bill on its first appeal to the
people, and seized the occasion to thank Mr. Reid for his share in delaying the measure. "You
think the Bill as amended an improvement?" he asked. "Probably," replied Mrs. Young, "but as
I didn't think the improvement great enough, I voted against it both times." But I had not
done so, and my vote on the second occasion was in favour of the Bill.

But, as Mr. Reid admitted, the dislike of most reformers for federation was natural enough,
for it was only to be expected that "reforms would be difficult to get with such a huge, unwieldy
mass" to be moved before they could be won. And experience has proved the correctness of the
view expressed. Anything in the nature of a real reform, judging from the experience of the
past, will take a long time to bring about. I am convinced that had not South Australia already
adopted the principle of the all-round land tax, the progressive form would have been the only
one suggested or heard of from either party. Politicians are so apt to take the line of least
resistance, and when thousands of votes of small landowners are to be won through the advocacy
of an exemption, exemptions there will be. The whole system of taxation is wrong, it seems
to me, and though, as a matter of expediency, sometimes from conviction, many people advocate
the opposite course, I have long felt that taxation should not be imposed according to the
ability to pay so much as according to benefits received from the State. We are frequently
warned against expecting too much from Federation during its earlier stages, but experience
teaches us that, as with human beings, so with nations, a wrong or a right beginning is responsible
to a great extent for right or wrong development. I have the strongest hopes for the future
of Australia, but the people must never be allowed to forget that eternal vigilance, as in
the past, must still in the future be the price we must pay for our liberty. Later, Mr. Reid
presided at our Parliament House meeting, and afterwards entertained us at afternoon tea. But
one of our pleasantest memories was of a day spent with the great freetrader and Mrs. Reid
at their Strathfield home. I was anxious to hear Mr. Reid speak, and was glad when the opportunity
arose on the occasion of a no-confidence debate. But he was by no means at his best, and it
was not until I heard him in his famous freetrade speech on his first visit to Adelaide that
I realized how great an orator he was. At the close of the no-confidence debate the triumphant
remark of an admirer that "Adelaide couldn't produce a speaker like that" showed me that a
prophet sometimes hath honour, even in his own country.

Mr. Wise was a brilliant speaker, and a most cultured man, and a delightful talker. Of Mrs.
Parkes, then President of the Women's Liberal League, I saw much. She was a fine speaker, and
a very clear-headed thinker. Her organizing faculty was remarkable, and her death a year or
two ago was a distinct loss to her party. Her home life was a standing example of the fallacy
of the old idea that a woman who takes up public work must necessarily neglect her family.
Mrs. Barbara Baynton was a woman of a quite different type, clever and emotional, as one would
expect the author of the brilliant but tragic "Bush Studies" to be. She was strongly opposed
to Federation, as, indeed were large numbers of clever people in New South Wales. Frank Fox
(afterwards connected with The Lone Hand), Bertram Stevens (author of "An Anthology of Australian
Verse"), Judge Backhouse (who was probably the only Socialist Judge on the Australian Bench),
were frequent visitors at Miss Scott's, and were all interesting people. An afternoon meeting
on effective voting was arranged at the Sydney University, I think, by Dr. Anderson Stuart.
We were charmed with the university and its beautiful surroundings. Among the visitors that
afternoon was Mrs. David, a charming and well-read woman, whose book describing an expedition
to Funafuti, is delightful. We afterwards dined with her and Professor David, and spent a pleasant
hour with them.

I was not neglectful of other reforms while on this campaign, and found time to interest myself
in the State children's work with which my friend, Mrs. Garran, was so intimately connected.
We went to Liverpool one day to visit the benevolent institution for men. There were some hundreds
of men there housed in a huge building reminiscent of the early convict days. If not the whole,
parts of it had been built by the convicts, and the massive stone staircase suggested to our
minds the horrors of convict settlement. I have always resented the injury done to this new
country by the foundation of penal settlements, through which Botany Bay lost its natural connotation
as a habitat for wonderful flora, and became known only as a place where convicts were sent
for three-quarters of a century. Barrington's couplet, written as a prologue at the opening
of the Playhouse, Sydney, in 1796, to a play given by convicts--

    True patriots we, for be it understood
    We left our country for our country's good--

was clever, but untrue. All experience proves that while it is a terrible injury to a new country
to be settled by convicts, it is a real injury also to the people from whom they are sent,
to shovel out of sight all their failures, and neither try to lessen their numbers nor to reclaim
them to orderly civil life. It was not till Australia refused any longer to receive convicts,
as Virginia had previously done, that serious efforts were made to amend the criminal code
of England, or to use reformatory methods first with young and afterwards with older offenders.
Another pleasant trip was one we took to Parramatta. The Government launch was courteously
placed at our disposal to visit the Parramatta Home for Women, where also we found some comfortable
homes for old couples. The separation of old people who would prefer to spend the last years
of their life together is I consider, an outrage on society. One of my chief desires has been
to establish such homes for destitute couples in South Australia, and to every woman who may
be appointed as a member of the Destitute Board in future I appeal to do her utmost to change
our methods of treatment with regard to old couples, so that to the curse of poverty may not
be added the cruelty of enforced separation. Women in New South Wales were striving for the
franchise at that time, and we had the pleasure of speaking at one of their big meetings. And
what fine public meetings they had in Sydney! People there seemed to take a greater interest
in politics than here, and crowded attendances were frequent at political meetings, even when
there was no election to stir them up. It was a Sydney lady who produced this amusing Limerick
in my honour:--

    There was a Grand Dame of Australia
    Who proved the block system a failure.
    She taught creatures in coats
    What to do with their votes,
    This Effective Grand Dame of Australia!

The third line will perhaps preclude the necessity for pointing out that the author was an
ardent suffragist! To an enlightened woman also was probably due the retort to a gentleman's
statement that "Miss Spence was a good man lost," that, "On the contrary she thought she was
a good woman saved." "In what way?" he asked. "Saved for the benefit of her country, instead
of having her energies restricted to the advantages of one home," was the reply. And for this
I have sometimes felt very thankful myself that I have been free to devote what gifts I possess
to what I consider best for the advantage and the uplifting of humanity. Before leaving Sydney
I tried once more to find a publisher for "Gathered In," but was assured that the only novels
worth publishing in Australia were sporting or political novels.

I was in my seventy-fifth year at the time of this visit, but the joy of being enabled to extend
the influence of our reform to other States was so great that the years rolled back and left
me as full of life and vigour and zeal as I had ever been. Our work had by no means been confined
to the city and suburbs, as we spoke at a few country towns as well. At Albury, where we stopped
on our way back to Victoria, we were greeted by a crowded and enthusiastic audience in the
fine hall of the Mechanics' Institute. We had passed through a snowstorm just before reaching
Albury, and the country was very beautiful in the afternoon, when our friends drove us through
the district. The Murray was in flood, and the "water, water everywhere" sparkling in the winter
sunshine, with the snowcapped Australian Alps in the background, made an exquisite picture.
Albury was the only town we visited in our travels which still retained the old custom of the
town crier. Sitting in the room of the hotel after dinner, we were startled at hearing our
names and our mission proclaimed to the world at large, to the accompaniment t of a clanging
bell and introduced by the old-fashioned formula, "Oyez! oyez! oyez!" Our work in Victoria
was limited, but included a delightful trip to Castlemaine. We were impressed with the fine
Mechanics' Hall of that town, in which we spoke to a large audience. But a few years later
the splendid building, with many others in the town, was razed to the ground by a disastrous
cyclone. Returning from Castlemaine, we had an amusing experience in the train. I had laid
aside my knitting, which is the usual companion of my travels, to teach Mrs. Young the game
of "Patience," but at one of the stations a foreign gentleman entered the carriage, when we
immediately put aside the cards. After chatting awhile, he expressed regret that he had been
the cause of the banishment of our cards, and "Would the ladies not kindly tell him his fortune
also?" He was as much amused as we were when we explained that we were reformers and not fortune
tellers. I have been a great lover of card games all my life; patience in solitude, and cribbage,
whist, and bridge have been the almost invariable accompaniments of my evenings spent at home
or with my friends. Reading and knitting were often indulged in, but patience was a change
and a rest and relief to the mind. I have always had the idea that card games are an excellent
incentive to the memory. We had an afternoon meeting in the Melbourne Town Hall to inaugurate
a league in Victoria, at which Dr. Barrett, the Rev. Dr. Bevan, Professor Nanson, and I were
the principal speakers. Just recently I wrote to the Victorian Minister who had charge of the
Preferential Voting Bill in the Victorian Parliament to ask him to consider the merits of effective
voting; but, like most other politicians, the Minister did not find the time opportune for
considering the question of electoral justice for all parties. I remained in Victoria to spend
a month with my family and friends after Mrs. Young returned to Adelaide. The death of my dear
brother John, whose sympathy and help had always meant so much to me, shortly after my return,
followed by that of my brother William in New Zealand, left me the sole survivor of the generation
which had sailed from Scotland in 1839.

CHAPTER XXIII.

MORE PUBLIC WORK.

For the co-operative movement I had always felt the keenest sympathy. I saw in it the liberation
of the small wage-earner from the toils of the middlemen. I thought moreover that the incentive
to thrift so strongly encouraged by co-operative societies would be a tremendous gain to the
community as well as to the individual. How many people owe a comfortable old age to the delight
of seeing their first small profits in a co-operative concern, or their savings in a building
society accumulating steadily and surely, if but slowly? And I have always had a disposition
to encourage anything that would tend to lighten the burden of the worker. So that when in
1901 Mrs. Agnes Milne placed before me a suggestion for the formation of a women's co-operative
clothing factory, I was glad to do what I could to further an extension in South Australia
of the movement, which, from its inception in older countries, had made so strong an appeal
to my reason. A band of women workers were prepared to associate for the mutual benefit of
the operatives in the shirtmaking and clothing trades. Under the title of the South Australian
Co-operative Clothing Company, Limited, they proposed to take over and carry on a small private
factory, owned by one of themselves, which had found it difficult to compete against large
firms working with the latest machinery. I was sure of finding many sympathizers among my friends,
and was successful in disposing of a fair number of shares. The movement had already gained
support from thinking working women, and by the time we were ready to form ourselves into a
company we were hopeful of success. I was appointed, and have since remained the first President
of the board of directors; and, unless prevented by illness or absence from the State, I have
never failed to be present at all meetings. The introduction of Wages Boards added to the keen
competition between merchants, had made the task of carrying on successfully most difficult,
but we hoped that as the idea gained publicity we should benefit proportionately. It was a
great blow to us, when at the close of the first year we were able to declare a dividend of
1/ a share, the merchants closed down upon us and reduced their payments by 6d. or 9d. per
dozen. But in spite of drawbacks we have maintained the struggle successfully, though sometimes
at disheartening cost to the workers and officials of the society. I feel, however, that the
reward of success due to this plucky band of women workers will come in the near future, for
at no other time probably has the position looked more hopeful than during the present year.

