"It is beautiful in its wording, almost poetry."--Birmingham Ledger.

"Harold Bell Wright has given to the world a literary gem that will live."--Oregon Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WINNING OF BARBARA WORTH

"It is a novel with 'body,' with a large and timely idea back of it, with sound principles
under it, and with a good crescendo of dramatic thrills."--Chicago Record-Herald.

"To the reader the characters will appear as real as friends they know--all of their aims,
and likes, and hatreds being portrayed as true to life as snapshots caught by moving-picture
cameras."--Boston Globe.

"The characters take the reader with them wherever they go, and they are characters that seem
to have temporarily stepped from real life into the pages of the book."--Pittsburg Chronicle-Telegraph.

"The romance of the novel is told in a very charming love story which has 'Barbara Worth' for
its inspiration. With her winning the author has deftly interwoven an epic of national reclamation
work and present-day good business."--Richmond Times-Dispatch.

"With a vividness that assumes reality Mr. Wright shows how capital may be used to gain its
end and at the same time save the community and still be 'good business'."--Omaha Bee.

"'The Calling of Dan Matthews' was a fine tale; 'The Shepherd of the Hills' was an inspiration. Easy
BOTANY.

       June, of its rounded freshness glorious by a leaf, its wood paths
gay with flowers, its unsullied sunsets and sunrises, its perfection
with beauty and sweetness-- June has passed along to make room for
the fervid July.

JULY.


"'Their Yesterdays,' by Harold Bell Wright, is a really great book. You feel better, you feel
refreshed, and you feel a desire to drop to your knees and thank Almighty God for such a book
and for permitting you to read it."--Memphis News Scimitar.

"This is the gentle story of the love of a man and a woman in which the vigor of 'That Printer
of Udell's,' the kindliness of 'The Shepherd of the Hills,' the power of 'Dan Matthews' and
the grace of 'Barbara Worth' are all woven into a strain more delicate and more beautiful than
this great writer has ever before penned. Through this medium has Mr. Wright told more plainly
than before the inmost secrets and joys of his big heart."--Boston Globe.

"Some one has called Harold Bell Wright 'the apostle of the wholesome' in fiction, and his
latest volume, 'Their Yesterdays,' certainly bears out his claim to the title. Also it shows
the man's remarkable genius. We may liken the perusal of the book to listening to some magnificent
organ played soft and low by a master hand. And, as one never wearies of gazing upon great
paintings nor of listening to the uplifting strains of fine music so one reads this volume
with deep appreciation and pays the tribute of regret when it is ended."--Nashville Tennessean.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EYES OF THE WORLD

"Tense situations, clear-cut, strong characters, the struggle of right over advancement, and
cleanliness against wealth are all pictured in 'The Eyes of the World' with all the vigor for
which the author has become known."--Spokane Chronicle. 

All the colonists stood by them. The King called his american subjects "rebels," and proceeded to punish
the people of Boston. That tea party make the obedient government really angry. British troops
were sent of make the Americans british vassals instead to loving
subjects.

"When the author produced 'The Winning of Barbara Worth,' the reading public believed he had
written his masterpiece of fiction but this literary genius, the wizard of American novelists,
has surprised the literators in 'The Eyes of the World.' * * * the most intense and dramatic
novel of today."--Grand Rapids Herald.

"The Eyes of the World' is an unusual novel. It is that rare event, a pure love story. It deals
sledgehammer blows at animalism and sensualism, and is as a strong white light on a rock illumining
the dark valley below."--Portland Oregonian.

"It is a protest of a prophet against modern society and a strong story of the triumph of high
ideals."--Baptist Standard.

"Harold Bell Wright has told his story in a way to honor purity and loveliness and to depict
in their real colors their opposites."--Worcester Gazette.

"The description is poetic and rich in literary merit, while the story is full of action and
purpose."--Sacramento Bee.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHEN A MAN'S A MAN

Illustrations and Decorations by the Author

When a Man's a Man is a fine, big, wholesome novel of simple sweetness and virile strength.
While the pages are crowded with the thrilling incidents that belong to the adventurous life
of the unfenced land depicted--Northern Arizona--one feels, always, beneath the surface of
the stirring scenes the great, primitive and enduring life forces that the men and women of
this story portray. In the Dean, Philip Acton, Patches, Little Billy, Curly Elson, Kitty Reid
and Helen Manning the author has created real living, breathing men and women, and we are made
to feel and understand that there come to everyone those times when in spite of all, above
all and at any cost, a man must be a man.

NOTE: Harold Bell Wright's books appear in these advertising pages in their order of publication