 Before he left, he promised, the next morning Kreisphysikus send, from which you can
was that he thought of no immediate danger.

Meanwhile came the Kreisphysikus, Mrs von Imhoff moved to that evening. It was the medical officer
Dr Albert. He studied with great care Caspar, and when he had finished, He was very thoughtful.
Quandt, irritated by strange said, almost defiantly: "It flows so
no blood from the wound."

"The blood seeps inside," said the medical officer with the teacher only grazing View. He put
an envelope of mustard plaster on the heart and recommended the greatest
possible peace.

Quandt hand to his forehead.

"What," he said to his wife, "should be the guy in have caused his
recklessness but serious damage?

"

The teacher said nothing.

"I doubt it, I must doubt it," continued Quandt.

"Look at yourself, the otherwise self-pitying man complains so not a word about pain. "

He also answered no when you ask him, "added the woman.

At nine clock began Caspar delirious. Quandt was determined to not to delirium . Believe When Caspar
was going to jump out of bed, he screamed at him: "Do not make such
disgusting circumstances, Hauser!

Go speedily back to your bed. "

The pastor carter just stepped into the room and heard this.

"But Quandt! Quandt, "said He shocked.

"A little kindness, Quandt, in the name of our religion."

"Oh," said Quandt, shaking his head, "clemency is appropriate here
bad.

In Nuremberg, where but even so he has listed a warped comedy, he behaved exactly like that, and I
I have been told that he is of two men were held.

       As for me, I would so not have a play.

"

Mrs. von Imhoff had sent a nurse from the hospital, overnight camp Caspar monitored. He slept
two to three hours.

Early in the morning appeared a Judicial Commission. Caspar was fully conscious. From Coroner
asked, he told him to have a stranger artesian wells appointed to the courtyard garden.

"Ordered to what end?"

"I do not know."

"He said nothing about it?"

"But, he said, you could see the keys of the well."

"And then you have already followed him? What was he like? "

Caspar was a short, demolished slurred description and the way he punched the stranger. Otherwise
there was nothing out of him.

* * * * *

It was sought by witnesses. It is presented witnesses. Too late to prosecute the offender. The
very first ad, was the complicity Quandt, delayed irresponsible.

When they wanted to investigate at the crime scene contained traces of blood, it turned out that by
now too many people had been there and had trampled the snow. From such an important fact had to
draw benefits to be dispensed from the start.

Witnesses were found enough.

The circle hostess at the Rose Lane testified against two clock was A man came to her house,
she never seen before, and I wondered when a returns go to Nördlingen. The man was about thirty-five
years old, of medium Size, brownish in color and leaves scars on the face.

He had a blue coat with fur collar, a round black hat, green trousers and Boots worn with yellow
Schraubsporen. In his hand he held a riding crop.

He only stayed five minutes and very little talking, it was striking that he did not say wanted,
where he stayed.

This is how well the assessor Donner, a man whom he at three in the courtyard next to the clock
Lindenallee seen, in company with two other men, but the assessor
had not considered.

A mirror worker named Leichhardt took a few minutes to four clock from his home on the new way
through the post road to the promenade and from there across the
palace square.

He saw forth from the castle, two men on the street and walk, leaving the arena on the left, for
Hofgarten go. He recognized one of them Caspar Hauser. As for the two lamp-post on the corner of
the riding came, turned to Caspar Hauser, looking up the Palace Square, so that the observer
him again and just had to see. remained at the bar the stranger want to leave with a polite
gesture Hauser to take the lead. The worker thought for itself: how it might go for a walk, the
men with such a storm and snow.

"Three quarters of an hour later," and told the man, "when I when from an errand Büttner Pfaffenberger
came back, stood on the Schlossplatz, many people complained and said, of the houses had been stabbed
in the garden. "

       

And again. A gardener's assistant, who works in the Orangerie hears
about four clock voices.

He looks out the window and sees a man run over in the mantle.

The man goes through a good going. The voices are about a rifle shot was far from the Orangerie
building, not as far as the Uzsche monument. There were two voices, a bass and a bright Voice.

In
addition to the Willow Mill home of a seamstress.

Your window is the backyard garden, she looks up in the two against the wooden temple at the leading
avenues. In respect of poor light she the man in the jacket, he emerges from the new gate and
climb the slope of the Rezatwiese down. He stops short as he stands before the hochgeschwollenen
water. He turns around and turns Stäffelchen against the mill, is beyond the bridge on the Eiberstraße
and disappears. The woman was able to perceive from his face only one forward speed, black beard.

It
reports also the writer Dillmann to a statement. The unbreakable habit the old clerk is, every
afternoon, the weather is such also, two hours long to stroll in the garden. He saw Caspar and the
stranger. He asserts, however, Caspar was not preceded by a stranger, but he went back parts.
He is him followed, following the lamb to the butcher to slaughter, "he says.

Too late. Too late, the zeal. Too late the adopted warrants and raids the police. It could no
longer bear fruit, that it even Rezatstrom from his bed, led by perhaps to discover the murder
weapon, which have thrown the stranger in his escape from the liked.

What could this dagger?

What was the witness?

What was in the interrogation?

What was the evidence, resulting in a tardy Justice trimmed its inability
boastful?

It was said that the investigations haphazard and were run headless. It was said that a mysterious
hand was in the game, that Machinations culminated in to obscure the real traces gradually and
deliberately and misdirect the attention of the Authority. Who said it could not of course
explore be, because public opinion, a thing, just as cowardly as elusive oracle, only safe
ambushes. And very soon they were silent here, where libel, malice, lies, Stupidity and hypocrisy
of a beautiful image of man as between mill wheels crushed, until nothing remained but a poor
tale, of which the people of these areas rough Winter evenings in
front of the oven has.

* * * * *

On Sunday afternoon Quandt met the young Feuerbach, the philosopher, on the road.

"How's the house?" Asked the teacher.

"Oh, he is quite out of danger, thanks to 'demand, Doctor," Quandt said garrulous; "The jaundice
occurred, but that is indeed the usual consequence of a violent agitation
be.

I am convinced that he is in a few days to leave the bed. "

They talked for a while of other things, mainly from the recently
between Nuremberg Fuerth and planned rail steam train, a company against
which a whole cannonade Quandt let fly from skepticism, then he said
goodbye to the quiet young man with the Gratitude of a speaker applauded
and hurried, resistant hinlächelnd the right home.

He was in a very confident mood, a mood in which one is willing to take the to be worst enemies
bestowed leniency. Why, that want to know the gods. Was beautiful day to blame? One must not
forget that was in Quandt also a kind of poet; or was it the proximity of Christmas, which
every good Christian man as it were a Renewal of his soul promises?

Or was it in the end, the fact that currently as many noble and distinguished persons who
visited his modest home and that he was in the middle this humble
home a position of unprecedented importance held?

Enough, such as the also might be, he was satisfied with it, hence
the smile came from the purest Source.

Prior to his apartment, he met the police lieutenant.

"Ah, back from vacation," he greeted him with unthinking ease. A moment later he said to himself,
with whom I have still a Bone to pick with.

Hicks expressed his eyes and looked as if he wanted to laugh.

They went up together.

Caspar sat bare-chested body in bed, leaning against pillows piled up, stiff as a Figure from
clay, pumice gray as the face, the skin of the body like a bright
white Magnesium flame.

The doctor had just removed the bandage and wash the wound. It was also still present a Commission
actuary. This had taken place at the table, a Log form was with him, on which were the laconic words:
"The remains Damnifikat in his previous depositions. "On a captured highwayman you would have
to can not express better and cuter.

No sooner had the Caspar occurring Hickel maintained, as he like a broken flower cup lowered head sideways
and straightened with eyes wide open, in which a very unspeakable Terror, was the newcomer stared
in the face.

Without speaking, Hicks raised his finger threateningly. This gesture seemed to fear Caspar
to drive to the extreme: he folded his hands and muttered, groaning:
"Do not come near!

I've done so but not themselves. "

"But Hauser!

What you crazy, "Hickel said with a cheerfulness that one instance
in Tavern on display with, and his yellow teeth gleamed between the
full lips, "I 've got you so threatened just because you have gone
without permission in the courtyard garden.

Do you want to deny perhaps? "

"No arguments, if you please," warned the medical officer angrily.

He had the association renewed, now the teacher pulled aside and said softly, seriously: "I can not
deny that houses probably will not survive the night. "

Open mouth stared Quandt to the doctor. His knees were soft as butter. "What? What? " he breathed,
"is it possible?" He looked all present in order to slow with his Face resembled that of a
man, who was just pleasant place to eat and the suddenly bowl, plate, knife and fork, so the whole
table is spirited away.

"Come with me, sir," said a hoarse voice Hickel, who was standing at the stove and rubbed his hands
with meaningless bustle of the tiles.

Quandt nodded and walked forward mechanically.

"Is it possible," he muttered again as he stood on the stairs. "Is it possible," Help Seeking
He looked at the lieutenant. "Oh," he continued mournfully, "we had put our good faith Part
done. Faithful to care we have it not be truly missing. "

"Let but the nonsense, Quandt," replied the lieutenant coarse. "Tell me rather, what the Hauser has
said everything in his madness? "

"Nonsense, sheer nonsense," Quandt said sadly.

"Look out, sir, as you look down times," Hickel said, adding he was over the railing bent.

"What?" Quandt was back in alarm, "I do not see anything."

"You see anything? Potz pot I do not either. It seems we both see nothing. "He laughed strange,
was directed back on straight and dry coughing. Then he left, however, Quandt him not a little
affected nachguckte.

Where it should also come with the world if people like Hicks came under the ghosts Rather? On
their sturdy shoulders rest the foundations of order, obedience,
and all state recognized virtues.

May it have been in this particular case, such that the offspring of praiseworthy qualities subjects
still fell prey to an impulse evil conscience, Now, it must be said that this evil conscience
blessed with a menacing look was that it developed for all meals an enviable appetite and that
it is the gentlest Pillow for a unique sound sleep, was by no bell
and no fire Te Deum could be disturbed.

In the room Caspar Commission actuary had recently begun a trial.

Caspar should To say whether a third person was present, while in
the appeal court with the foreign Mann said.

Caspar matt replied that he had no one noticed, just before the gate
had been people.

"Poor People always there to fit me, "he said," for example, a certain
Feigelein who've I sometimes given a cruiser, the draper's widow Weigel.

"

The actuary wanted to ask, but Caspar whispered. "Tired - very tired"

"How you is home?" Asked the nurse.

"Tired," he repeated; "'ll now soon go away from this truck world."

For a while he cried and spoke for himself, afterwards he was again very quiet.

He saw a light that slowly went out. He heard sounds that penetrate to the inside of his ear
appeared, it sounded like when you skin with a hammer on a metal bell. He sees a long, lonely,
dusky level.

A human figure runs fast over it.

O God, It is Schildknecht.

What are you running so Schildknecht? he calls out to him. Have a hurry, a hurry, answer that
one. Suddenly shrinks Schildknecht, until he is a spider on a glowing filament to branch of a huge tree
emporklimmt. Tears of horror fall like rain from Caspar's eyes.

He saw a strange building, it resembled a colossal dome and it had no gate, no door no windows.
But Caspar could fly, fly up and looked through a circular opening
in the interior, which was filled with sky-blue air. was on sky-blue
marble tiles a woman.

Before this was a man who can hardly be seen more clearly as a shadow, and he shared with her,
that Caspar had died. The woman raised her arms and screamed in pain,
that the curvature trembled.

Since the ground gapes open and there was a long train of people, all of wept. Caspar and saw
that her heart quivered and twitched like a living fish in the Hand of the fisherman. And
one came out, who was armed and carrying a sword, who spoke enormous terms of which revealed the
whole secret. And all who heard were pressed, hands to their ears
closed, eyes and fell to the ground in grief.

       

Then everything was transformed. Caspar felt himself full of miraculous powers. He felt the
metals in the earth, from deep down they went to him and he could feel the stones, the veins
of ore had.

In between rested many seeds, and he set out and shot the Würzlein
and trembling is lifted the grasses.

From the ground sources such as fountains and jumped up on their
Peaks shone the welcome sun.

And in the midst of the universe is a tree stand with a wide Peaks
and innumerable ramifications; red berries growing from the branches,
and on the crown above were the berries that form a heart.

Inside the trunk blood flowed, and where the bark was broken, blackish drops trickled through.

Amidst
this desperate waves of images and morbid delights, it was Caspar,
as if someone was wearing it in a room where there was no air to breathe.

Since no half struggles and trees, it wore him out and a cool wind blew through his hair, his
fingers curled themselves, as if looking for somewhere to hold.

It was a nameless exhaustion, from which the futile struggle was accompanied.

On the road, drove by the Nuremberg-coach, and the coachman was blowing his horn.

It came to the evening many people to ask about his health. Mrs. von Imhoff was long sitting on
his bed.

At eight clock sent the nurse to the pastor, the truck driver, who arrived with great speed.
He put his hand on his forehead Caspar. With big eyes looked anxiously at Caspar; his shoulders
were shaking. He took his index finger on the quilt movement, as would Leave it. That did not
last long.

She once said to me, my house, that you trust in God and with his
help want to fight every battle, "said the minister.

"Do not know," whispered Caspar.

"Have you already prayed to God and called him to his assistance?"

Caspar nodded.

"And how is you been to this? Have you not felt strengthened? "

Caspar silent.

"Will not you pray again?"

"I'm too weak, pass me the same thoughts And after a while, he said, as if to himself. strange droning:
"The weary head asks for peace."

"Then I will say a prayer," said the priest, "you pray in silence. Father, not my - "

"But your will be done, completed Caspar" breathy.

"He who has so prayed?"

"The Savior."

"And when?"

"Before - his -. Dying" At this word
resisted his body up and down his face was a most painful twitch.
He ground his teeth and shouted shrilly three times: "Where am I?"

"But,
at home, in your bed you are," he reassured Quandt. "It is indeed
more common in patients before that they think of being in another
place, "he turned to the explanatory Pastor Fuhrmann.

"Give him drink,"
said the latter.

The teacher brought a glass of fresh water.

When
Caspar was drunk, he wiped the cold sweat Quandt of the forehead.
He himself trembled in every limb. He bent over the boy and asked
urgently, solemn entreaty: "Houses! Hauser! Did you tell me anything
more? See me once quite frankly to, Hauser! Do you confess to me no
more? "

As the highest of heart Caspar grabbed the hand of the teacher.
"Oh God, oh God, scrape, so have in disgrace, "he exclaimed plaintively.

Those
were his last words. He turned a little on the right side and turned
the Face to the wall. Each member of his body died on an individual.

Two
days later he was buried. It was afternoon and the sky of cloudless
blue. The whole town was in motion. A famous contemporary, the Caspar
Hauser's child Europe calls told it was standing at the hour the sun
and moon in the sky at the same time, those in the east, the west,
and both stars have shone in the same pale gloss.

* * * * *

About
a half weeks later, three days after Christmas, it was evening, and
Quandt and his Woman just wanted to go to bed, strong blows resounded
against the front door. Very frightened, Quandt hesitated for a while;
only when the repeated blows he took the Light and went to open it.

Woman
stood outside of Kannawurf. "Take me in Caspar's room," she said to
the teacher.

"Now even more? On the night? "Dared to object this.

"Now,
at night," insisted the woman.

Your being intimidated Quandt one
such that he silently stepped aside, she was preceded and followed
with the light.

Caspar's room in a little reminiscent of the deceased.
It was moved and displaced in all. Only the wooden horses stood still
on the corner table near the window.

"Let me alone," commanded Lady
of Kannawurf. Quandt put down the candlestick, remote in silence and
waited in communion with his wife at the bottom of the stairs. "It
is very good-natured of me that I put up something in my house, "he
grumbled.

Clara walked by with folded arms Kannawurf the room and
down. Her eyes fell on the table where a copy of the autopsy records
was, it was clear from the fact that after Caspar's death, the side
wall of his heart had found all pierced. Clara took the paper with
both hands and crumpled it in her fists.

Which bears fruit all the
pain and regret? You can not make back what has been from the air;
Earth can not abfordern their prey. Tears calm, but these mourners
had no more tears, for they were not stars anymore, no glory of heaven,
for they grew no More fragrant grass, no flower more, you could not
taste more of the day and night no longer for they had everything
and bustle, and even the creation of the elements in a single dark
cloud of never aggregated irreversible debt.

It might be half an
hour elapsed, when Clara came down again. She stayed very close before
the teachers are, and as she looked at him with wide open eyes, she
said, trembling and cold, "murderer."

This was Quandt, much as if
they'd kept him a sulfur fire under his nose. It is conceivable, the
brave man was completely unaware, in a dressing gown, embroidered
Coping with home and slap shoes on his feet he waits for the uninvited
guest to his house leave again, and there is a word, as it can not
even produce a bad dream.

"That woman is crazy! I will call them
to account, "he raged still in bed.

Clara lived with Imhoff. She
found her friend to have. Mrs. von Imhoff told her that one tomorrow
would go to the cemetery, because the cross on Caspar Hauser's grave
would be built. Mrs. von Imhoff felt Clara's silence like a nightmare
and told said. Much Caspar, many of those who were around him. Quandt
wanted to write a book in which he minutely intend to prove that Caspar
was an impostor, that Hicks had left the service and move away from
Ansbach, where to, nobody knows that all efforts to stop the terrible
crimes been to get to the bottom, were in vain.

Clara was like stone.
When they parted for the night, she said softly and with uncanny Gentleness:
"You too are his murderer."

Mrs. von Imhoff started back. But Clara
also went on softly and gently, "You know it because not? Do not you
want's to know? Do you hide from the truth like Cain before God's
call? Do not you know who he was? Do you think that the world is silent
forever about is, as it is silent now? He will rise again, Bettine,
he will hold us accountable call our names and cover them with shame,
he will haunt the conscience of Nachgebornen, He will be so powerful
in death than he was powerless in life. The sun brings it to light.
"

Then left the room quietly Clara like a shadow. Once they saw a female figure running with
uplifted arms by one of the rooms. She shouted to herself furiously.

"The unfortunate," said Quandt upset.

It was Henrietta. Their cries continued uninterrupted until released some women, including Wife
of Stichaner. Quandt went with Casper to the threshold of the state chamber. The women sought
to Henrietta, but she gave each of his fists on his own. "I've known" she cried, "I've known him have
me poisoned, poisoned him," Your eyes were bloodshot, and her eyes were red. She stormed into
another room, the loose nightgown fluttered behind her, and always
shrill cries echoed her: "You have poisoned him! poisoned! poisoned!

"

Caspar had no other resting place for his eye as the Napoleon picture
that he faced.

It seemed to him as though the Emperor be painted already tired of
the incessant majestic Rotation that made his neck.

"Said Let us go home," Quandt, "it is too much of misery."

In the hall stood the Government of President Mieg in conversation
with Hicks.

The lieutenant reported details of the disaster. In Ochsenfurt am Main have His Excellency being
unwell complained and had gone to bed at night he feverishly, the doctor had called him allowed
to bleed and have stated that the disease is irrelevant.

The next morning was suddenly entered the end.

"And of cause, the doctor wrote to his death?"

Asked M. de Mieg and bowed at the same time, as wife of Imhoff and wife of Kannawurf came to his
side. Wife Imhoff was crying.

Hicks shrugged. "He believed in heart failure," he said.

Despite the early morning the whole city was already on his feet. Above the roof of the Court
of Appeal two black flags waved.

Caspar was the day in his room. No one bothered him. He lay on the sofa, his hands under his head,
staring into the air. Late afternoon he was hungry and went into the living room. Quandt was not there.
The teacher said: "At four in the body clock has arrived and you should actually go, Hauser,
and see him again before he is buried. "

Caspar choked on a piece of bread and nodded.

"You see how right I was behind with the dead women," continued the talkative teacher continued,
"but the men always think everything is going as it's work out."

The corridor of Feuerbach's house was full of people. Caspar was expressed in a Angle and stand
for a while unnoticed. He was trembling in every limb. The peculiar smell, who reigned in the
house, took away the senses. Then he felt himself seized by the hand.

Looking up, he recognized Mrs. von Imhoff. She gave him a sign to follow her. She led him
into a large room, was laid out in the middle of the dead. Feuerbach's three sons were sitting
at the head his father, Henry was thrown over the motionless body.

At the window stood the Councilor Hofmann, director of the archive worm. No one else was in
the room.

The face of the dead was yellow like a lemon. To the angle of the sharp, bitter mouth had formed
large muscle knots. The slate-gray hair was like a close-cropped Animal fur. There was nothing of size
in these features, only teeth-gritting pain and a inhuman, icy fear.

Caspar had never seen a dead person. His face got a painful-curious Expression, the eyeballs
turned into the corner, and with all ten fingers he umkrampfte Chin and mouth. His whole heart
dissolved into tears.

Henriette Feuerbach raised his head from the gurney, and when she saw the young man, distorted
her features horribly.

"For your sake he had to die," she cried in a voice trembled before them all.

Caspar opened the lips. bent far forward, he stared at the half-mad
woman.

Twice he knocked his hand against his chest - he seemed to be laughing
- suddenly gave he a dull sound at all and crashed to the ground unconscious.

Everyone

was petrified. The sons of the president stood up and looked on anxiously the young man lying
on the ground.

Director worm ran when he had composed himself to the door, probably to call a doctor. The prudent
Councilor stopped him and said that one should not take unnecessary
Make a stir.

Woman kneeling next to Caspar von Imhoff and moistened his temples with her Smelling water.
He slowly came to himself, but it took fifteen minutes until it rise and could go. Mrs. von Imhoff
accompanied him out. So they do not by the amount to push the visitors in the corridor needed,
they led him through a back staircase to the Garden and volunteered
to bring him home.

"No," he said softly unnatural, "I want to go alone. "He stuck his
nose in the air and sniffed unconscious.

His pulse was so fast that the veins in the neck literally flew.

He wrenched himself to the loving encouragement of the young woman and walked with slow steps towards
the main avenue of the garden. Before the portal, he encountered
the police lieutenant.

"Well, Hauser!" Hickel spoke to him.

Caspar stopped.

"The grief you have created the occasion," Hickel said, with ominous
emphasis, "for those who Feuerbach is a weighty replace pronoun?

"

Caspar said nothing and looked as it were by the police lieutenant through, as if he were made
of glass.

"Good evening," came as a bell-clear voice that touched Caspar miraculous. Wife Kannawurf came to
his side. Hickel's face turned a shade paler. "My dear Wife, "he said with a gallantry, the
exception convulsively," I may chance That use to be giving you my unbounded devotion to feet?
"

Wife of Kannawurf was involuntarily take a step back and looked frightened.

The lieutenant had the air of a man who plunges into deep water.

He bent down, and wives of Kannawurf could prevent it, he grabbed her hand and pressed a kiss
upon it, with his bare teeth, and when he straightened up, his lips were still separated. Without
speaking a syllable more, he hurried away.

With wide eyes he looked after by Mrs Kannawurf. "Terrible is my man," whispered them. Caspar
remained completely indifferent. Wife of Kannawurf accompanied him home in silence.

When he was in his room, his eyes were a ghostly sheen and flashed in like two fireflies at dusk.
He stood in the middle of the room, and from head trembling at the
feet, imploring tone he said the following:

"Do I know call you,
'I love you.

Are you the mother, so I hear.

I go to you. I must be to you.

A messenger I send you.

Are you the mother, so I ask you: why the long Wait?

No fear have I more, and the need is great. Kaspar Hauser are they called me, but you call
me different.

To you I must go to the palace.

The messenger is faithful, God will lead him and the sun shine to
him.

Say to him, give me customer through him. "

Suddenly he took a strange calm.

He sat down at the table, took a sheet of paper and wrote without
him from the darkness, down the same words.

Then he folded lighted the bow together, and he had no wax, the candle, he, had the tallow Drizzle
on paper, and pressed the seal on that presented a horse with the
legend: Proud, yet gentle.

It passed a half hour, he sat motionless and smiled with his eyes
closed.

Sometimes it seemed as if he prayed, because his lips moved in searching.

He thought of Schildknecht.

He longed with all the power of his soul.

And as if this wish would normally hold the power to create reality,
echoed at once from the farm up the well-denominated Triolenpfiff.

Caspar went to the window and opened; It was Schildknecht.

"I come down," he shouted to Caspar.

At the bottom, he grabbed by the coat sleeve Schildknecht and pulled
him through the gate on the lonely street.

There he asked him to dumb to follow him further.

Sometimes he was tentatively held and looked around. They arrived at the cottage of the tax collector,
and over a Meadow. On the Rain was a farm wagon. Caspar sat on the pole and pulled Schildknecht
side. He approached his lips to the ear of the soldier and said, "need now" I ask. "

Schildknecht nodded.

"It's about everything," continued Caspar.

Schildknecht nodded.

"There's a letter," said Caspar, "to get to my mother."

Schildknecht nodded again, this time full of devotion. "I know," he replied, "the Princess Stephanie
- "

"How do you know?" Breathed Caspar affected.

"Do's read. Got it in the book read by the State Council. "

"And you know, where you must go, Schildknecht?"

"Is it white. If indeed our country. "

"And you want to give the letter?"

"Will it."

"And swear your salvation, that you yourself give her the letter? go to the castle? In the church
when she is there? Your car RESIDED when she goes on the road? "

"If there is no swearing necessary. I do, and when it rains tubers. "

"If I wanted to do it, Schildknecht, I came 'not to the next village. They would tell me intercept
and incarcerate. "

"Is it white."

"How you gonna do it?"

"Peasant dress clothes, sleeping by day in the forest run at night."

"And where are hidden the letter?"

"Under the sole, in the stocking."

"And when you can continue?"

"When you please. Tomorrow, today, the same, if you please. Although desertion, but does nothing. "

"If
it succeeds, it does not matter. Do you have money? "

"Not a dollar. Does not matter. "

"No. Money is necessary. Need a lot of money. Go with me, I'll get money. "

Caspar jumped up and strode forward in the direction of Imhoffschlößchens. At the gate commanded
Caspar to wait for the soldier. He went in and told the doorman that he had to wife Kannawurf
. Speak There was something in his appearance, which made the old
caretaker legs. Wife Kannawurf met him once.

She led him on a staircase in a small room, who was not enlightened. A high wall mirror glittered
in the moonlight. The porter made Light and away reluctantly.

"Ask me anything," Caspar said breathlessly to her friend, the speechless powerful was, 'I need
ten ducats. Give me ten ducats. "

She looked at him anxiously.

"Wait," she said quietly and walked out.

It seemed an eternity Caspar until she returned. He stood at the window and ran resistant with
one hand on his cheek. Still, as they went, returned wife Kannawurf and handed him a small role.
He took her hand and muttered something. Her face twitched over and over, her eyes swam like
the fog. Did she understand him? You probably had to guess, but they did not ask. A dim smile
strayed about her lips as she also accompanied Caspar.

She was moving well at this moment.

Schildknecht was leaning against the wall, pillars of the gate and looked seriously at the
moon. They were courting city ​​side, and after a few hundred yards was Caspar stand and gave
the letter Schildknecht and the role of money. Schildknecht said not a word. He puffed out his
cheeks a little and saw from harmless.

Before Kronacher Buck said Schildknecht, it would be better if they are no longer together saw. A handshake,
and they parted. Schildknecht then turned around and shouted seem cheerful, "Goodbye!"

Caspar was a long time are jinxed in the same spot.

It felt like the grass and to throw his arms into the ground digging, for which he suddenly
felt gratitude.

Late he came home, but remained unquestioned fortunately, because
Quandt was an important meeting half ordered to Councilor Hoffman.

He brought a piece of news.

"Just listen, Jette," said he, "the State Council during the last
days that he together with the police lieutenant had renounced the
cause of the houses completely.

He should even be handled with the plan the memorandum for Hauser explain to the public as a mistake.
"

"Who's he say?" Asked the teacher.

"The police lieutenant, and it is also generally Sun The Councilor is the same view. "

"It also means that the State has been poisoned."

"Oh, silly talk," went on Quandt.

"Beware only that you announced the like leaves. The police lieutenant, has threatened that
he was on the distributors of such dangerous phrases arrest and pull inexorably to account. What
makes the houses? "

"I think he's gone to bed. Afternoon, he was with me in the kitchen and complained about the many
flies in his room. "

"Further, he now has no worries?

That looks like him. "

Yes. I told him that he will chase them out yet. The tu 'I replied yes, he did, but then will always come
in again. "

"Twenty?" Quandt said disapprovingly. "Why twenty? It's just an arbitrary figure? "

They went to bed.

On the day of Feuerbach's funeral arrived Daumer and von Tucher of
Nuremberg and increased the "star" from.

Daumer immediately went to Caspar. Caspar was against his first protector free and open, and
yet had the agonizing Daumer impression that I see and hear him Caspar
Not at all.

He was pale, become larger, silent as always, and by a strange Laughter, yes, quite shut, wrapped
entirely in this serenity, the strange-acting, dark shadow cast around
him.

In a letter to his sister Daumer wrote, among other things: "I would be lying if I say would it
make me happy to see the boy.

No, I is painful to see him, and you ask me why, I must respond like a dumb student: I do not
know. Besides, he lives here in peace, and will probably be reported sadly, all through his
days figure as an obscure clerk or the like. "

While Mr. von Tucher again departed that afternoon, and that to without Caspar take care, Daumer
remained three days in the city because he had business with the government. At the funeral
of the President, he saw Caspar not, he later learned that his wife
Imhoff had known presence prevented.

He soon made the humiliating discovery that Caspar he deliberately evaded. An hour before his departure,
he spoke to the teacher about Quandt.

"Can a man of your insight to explain this conduct be embarrassed?" Said Quandt surprised. "It's quite
clear that he now that he is an ever-growing indifference caused by the looks and must feel
the consequences every day that he now by the Sight of his friends in Nuremberg is at a loss and
seeks to avoid by forces. For there he stood in floribus yes # # and thought what wonderful
for raisins in his cake stuck. But we, dear sir, are close on the track, it will not be long
and you will hear strange news. "

Quandt looked troubled, and his words were fanatical. If no thumb straight with hopeful Breast the
trip took up to his home district, is doubtful. He almost how quiet that night, as he pressed
the flesh and spirit in Caspar itself, lamenting over the summer
fields called: Man, oh man!

But it had not be content. A foreclosed brooding seized the bewildered man, ferment in his
brain as it bad conscience, and slowly, the decision to act and Punishment awakening, for much
too late Fact and Punishment was a first clue to the truth.

A losing game

Over the following weeks there were in the lounges and public rooms of the city all kinds of especial
to whisper things. Without that the talk took certain forms, they wanted but suddenly in the
Death of President Feuerbach continue to see nothing but the fruit of a mysterious Conspiracy.
A tangible expression was not, of course, the Whisperer took in eight. Very secretly whispered
to them, even Lord Stanhope was involved in this conspiracy, and gradually turned up the particular
rumor that the Lord deal with it, a criminal case Trying to Caspar
Hauser, and had been of assistance to the end of a major Lawyers insured.

Suddenly no one more familiar to the earlier enthusiasm for the count, the superb memory, he left,
was blurred, and in some influential families, where he was the idol, said it already with anxious
care his name.

Caspar's friends were worried. Mrs. von Imhoff was looking one day the police lieutenant and
asked what to make of the rumors. With a cool regret Hickel said, that public opinion on this
point is irrelevant. "The tide has just turned over," he said, "His Lordship sees Caspar Hauser
now only a common swindler."

Imhoff left out of the woman police lieutenant, without a word counter and unrecognized.

Ah, the gentle souls who sneered Hickel of itself, the horror she
seizes.

Hickel had rented a new apartment on the promenade and lived
like a gentleman. Where may he have the means? people asked. He is
lucky at the card table, some people said other claimed the opposite,
that he continually lose large sums.

Even so the conversation was
not exhausted. One other oddity: in the summer was over Infantry barracks
a soldier disappeared unenlightened ways. At another time would be
such an event might have gone unnoticed. Now pinned by the fact all
sorts of Fables. It was said that soldier, who had supervised the
houses of certain secrets Become aware and had been stashed away.
It was scary, it closed at Night carefully the front doors. There
was not haunted in the good, quiet town. Who foreign name had been
viewed with suspicion.

Even Madame de Kannawurf learned such suspicions,
even though they had to something untouchable, that the defamatory
words, the force robbed. However, it was noticed that they of dealing
escaped with their peers and are instead often among people of the
lowest class of people running about. She spent many hours in spirited
conversation with loose peasant women and working-class women, went
up to their towers, or joined to the children who were returning from
school. As it happened often that it excessive to the amazement of
the citizens encountered a noisy Swarm of boys and girls had gathered
around him and smiling in their midst by the Lanes moved.

Probably
she is a demagogue, they said. Staunchness parents forbade their offspring,
to take part in the scandal lifts. No doubt, the Authority found the
driving offensive, because once the evening had been observed that
the police lieutenant before Imhoffschlößchen Items seized, two hours
he was in the darkness stood motionless under a tree.

It is true,
wife of Kannawurf was a remarkable person and behaved remarkably.
But their strange actions had an appearance of lightness, even nonchalance.
She had a Kind of smile, which is self-forgetful devotion to any thought,
felt mixed with despair over the inadequacy of his own touching again.
They lived in and all in all, as it died with every sigh, then, flew
with joy in every one ethereal region.

One evening in August she
entered the room of her friend, threw himself out of running such
breathless on the sofa and was not able to talk long.

"What you have
just driven back, Clara said Mrs. von Imhoff reproachfully;?" Does
not mean the live, that is burned. "

"It does not help," murmured
the young woman relaxed, "I must go."

Imhoff kind of woman shook
her head disapprovingly. These words she had for three Months of often
heard. "Up to our family party will you stay still, Clara," she replied
warmly.

How much will power but sometimes this is not to execute
a decision, "said Clara Kannawurf of himself, and after a pause of
silence, she turned the face of Friend counter and asked, "Why, Bettine,
you can not take you Caspar into the house? He should not stay longer
and the teacher must Quandt. to enter this house is impossible for
me. Its location is horrible, Bettine. Why do I say that! You know,
yes you know it all; she regrets it all, but none touched his finger.
No one, no one has to take the courage to what he wants to have done
if this happened, what he fears to himself. "

Mrs. von Imhoff looked
enter their handiwork. "I am not happy and not unhappy enough with
the sacrifice of his own to give myself a strange fate, "she said
finite.

Clara leaned his head on his hand. "You read a good book,
you see a moving drama and be shocked by them only imagined suffering,
"she continued moving and haunting continued. "A sad song you can
get out of tears, Bettine, just remember how you cried, from the other
day when Miss Stichaner> Wanderer <Schubert sang. At the words: there,
where you are not, is lucky to have you crying. You could not sleep
one night, when we were told, over in vineyards a mother had to starve
her own child. Why is it always the unreal or the distance by which
you wasted your participation? Why always only believe the word, the
sound, the image and not the living man, whose Distress is palpable?
I understand it do not understand it not, that bothers me, because
yes because I burn. "

The soft, melodic little voice went by in a
breath. Mrs. von Imhoff rested his head in the hand and was silent
a long time. Then she got up, sat next to Clara, stroked Front of
her friend and said, "Say it with time. He should come to us. I will
enforce it. "

Clara embraced her with both arms and kissed it gratefully.
But had not the heart to open Mrs. von Imhoff come to this decision,
and she was breathing strangely with relief as her most Next day the
wife of Kannawurf opening made Caspar had inexplicably stubborn against
the proposal reluctant to leave the house of the teacher. First, he
had no reason call for his refusal to do, but when he carried Clara's
distress, he said: "There has spent to me, and I will stay there.
I do not think it is, in the Quandt, he's not been good enough, as
it was taken out of pity, the Imhoff. I have so my bread and my bed,
everything I do not need, and the bed is the very best I've met in
the world, everything else is bad. "

Since no objection fertilized
more. "Finally, you can indeed do with me what you want," he added,
"but that I should go there voluntarily, which will not happen. What
for? Lang's can never take. "

So he was for the word escaped. Therefore,
the deep gleam in his eyes? Looked He therefore with silent tension
along the streets when he went in the morning to appeal court? That's
why he refused for hours at the window and peered over to the highway?
That he pricked up their ears greedy when he saw two people talking
quietly to each other somewhere? That he daily had to be there when
the mail coach arrived, and that he questioned the letter carrier,
whether he had nothing for him?

The enigmatic nature of the time
did not diminish. It was wife of Kannawurf because of him snatch constraint
that it withdraw an intimate relationship with the surrounding world
and each activity had to make merry foreclosed. 

Below, he told the facts of his wife and she agreed that behind it a boyish Despite stick, nothing
more. The next morning, he also reported the Councilor about this wrote a short note to Caspar
and gave it to the teacher. Caspar read the letter in Quandt's presence, and when he had finished,
he handed it to the teacher, visibly upset. The letter warned him gently before the Councilor
properties which only common natures leaving, however, it was the wording, "our houses are not
able to seem strange."

On the same evening, again after supper, brought one of the Quandt workbooks Caspar to light and
said, "For this issue, a leaf is cut out, Hauser.

You know but that I have been banned countless times. "

"I had made in the paper a stain, and I do not want him in the Scriptures," said Caspar.

Instead of answering, Quandt called upon the youth to come with him in his study. His wife, he said,
may she light the candle, took the lamp, and went forward.

In reached the other room, he closed both doors carefully, said Caspar
take a seat and began: "They are surely not expect me that I accept
your excuse at face value?"

"What an excuse," asked Matt Caspar.

"Well, with the spots. I do not believe in these spots. "

"Why do you believe it not?"

"You know the saying: A liar, is not believed, and if he also Speaks truth. You, my friend lying
more than once. "

"I do not lie," said Caspar equally dull and toneless.

"You dare to say to my face?"

"I do not know that I'm lying."

"Oh, mischievous pettifogger," Quandt said bitterly.

"If I have your frequent falsehoods not Persuade each time, so I intended to gradually gained
insight that I would of but can not cure the evil. So why should I grieve in vain? They are accustomed
to so long to say no until you have been so transformed that you
can not say no; and then talk but not a yes.

"

"Should I say yes, if not it? Prove to me that I lied. "Saw the Caspar Teachers with one of those
looks in which this used to be described as treacherous.

"Oh, Hauser, as it hurts me to see me over so," said Quandt.

"I 'm not embarrassed by evidence and have so many that I do not know where to start. Do not
you remember the story with the candlestick? They claimed, was the
handle canceled, and it's irrefutable evidence that it was melted off?

"

"It was what I said."

"So I will not be fobbed me. Incidentally, you can rest assured that I do a Incident was recorded with
all diligence, that is written to, if necessary full accounting give information about you
to. "

Caspar was a very concerned face, he was silent.

"And further, we consider a recent case," continued Quandt, "it was all the same, Whether you yesterday
finished the translation, or whether you wanted to make the first in the room. Since you were
busy during the day, it could and were allowed to do the work in the evening. Why you said
you were finished, while you had not done the least about it? "

"I mean, you ask whether I had prepared."

"Ridiculous. They had recently been the audacity to twist my words simple. I I asked clearly:
If you make your translation? My wife was present and a witness. "

"If you said it, I've just seen's different."

"The usual excuses.

They had not even prepared. You can untie someone It is not known as accurately as I do. I wish
I had never met you, at the end You still get there by the reputation of an honest man. But
you will not see through, only me but also by others. There are only a few families in which
you kindly valid and sincere, and most recognize that an everyday imagination and a have low pride
that you are indifferent and arrogant towards less noble, as soon as you find in higher rank
access. And as for your hypocrisy, I am lawyer offers Them in each individual case on its head
to promise, if you are stuck with the truth; what is in and out of your horizon, what can captivate
your attention and what not.

I'll give you a pretty Exempelchen from the last time.

It was at the dinner table talk Government of flow. My wife said it was the good old man unpleasant
that he not with his family could be in Worms. I noticed then that the Government a large
family in the Rhine district and so and so have many grandchildren. Then you said: Eleven
grandchildren He added that it was spoken with the General Inspector of it. I replied that
I nineteen Grandchildren heard you insured but there were eleven. I knew the now but nothing
to oppose, but I knew for certain that you had taken the number only in the speed, to impress
us, to take the name of the Commissioner-General in his mouth and we can to show that you are familiar
with the circumstances of people who visited that house. Honestly,'s not so "?

"Someone has spoken at the table of eleven grandchildren. Certainly. "

"I do not think so."

"Yes."

"Shame shame, you, Hauser, persevere in such a serious moment on the
lie.

This is a high degree of misery, not to say worthlessness.

In the matter yes even little lies, but your continued brazen assertion can look deep. You shows
that you never take a mistake on his own account, that you never admit a weakness want and leave
it at that arrive to the extreme. In the first free hour, I am the Government ask yourself how
many grandchildren he has. Is it really eleven, so I'm going to give proper satisfaction, in
the other case, I will shame you in a way that you are at I should think. "

Caspar resulting lowered his head.

"But the real thing, I hold you come yet, dear friend," began Quandt After a pause, during
which the storm is thundering against the window and the fireplace heard whimpering. "It's
now about time that you are a man like me, your Fate unfeigned interest shall make the truth. They
seem to still the Think the whole world was your fairy tale of the mysterious imprisonment
or even the high birth Noteholders alike. You are in a shameful mistake, dear Hauser. At first,
I admit it, has been paid to working as a mysterious process but gradually but all reasonable
people come to the conclusion that it is the Victims - let me call
the property does not, that they had become victims.

I I think probably, houses that you wanted to push the stop was not originally so far. In Last
winter, when the signature of the president appeared than they showed
themselves Scared of the consequences of your act, and you reminded
me of a child a little has played with fire and suddenly sees the
whole house in flames.

They feared losing the feeding ground, had to be procured through your cunning you, you had
just as a discovery and a well-deserved punishment to fear, where your deluded friends lucky
for you saw. Test yourself but in your interior, whether I'm right. "

Caspar saw the teacher with a lifeless look in the eye.

"All right, I will not force you to answer," went on to Quandt gloomy
satisfaction.

"It is now quiet again become of you, Hauser. Strangely quiet it has become. They want not take
care of everything right about you. So still it was time to become you, before the has alleged
assassination attack in the home of Professor Daumer happened. No man at all the many thousands who
live in the city of Nuremberg, at the critical time or later one
person observed that even remotely associated with such an atrocity
could be considered.

Your friends still believed the masked monster, as it the fantastic
jailer believed that you have taught reading and writing should.

Nevertheless, it has set the Professor Daumer immediately outside the door. He is probably have
to know why. And now your case is such that you have to decide. Their most powerful patron, the
State Council, the Lord Stanhope, the wife has Behold, the temporal leave. Recognize it is not
a sign from the heavens? It has even now no purpose for you to maintain the fiction. You're now a man,
you want to but a be a useful member of human society. Talk to me, houses, open You! Talk to
your real mouth, from the very heart! "

"Yes, what should I speak?" Said Caspar dull and slow, however, his form fell like an old man and
were also loud in his face senile wrinkles.

The teacher came to him and grabbed his heavy stone-cold hand. "The truth will you ! Talk, "he
said imploringly. "Oh, Hauser, yes it is a pity you to look at how
the bad conscience ghostly peers from each of your eyes.

Your mind is depressed. On! the tortured breast, Hauser! Let the sun shine into it at last! Courage,
courage, confidence! The truth! The truth!

"Caspar He grabbed the collar of his coat as if he wanted him and his hands wrest the secret.

What?
What? Caspar thought, and his eyes fluttered around woe full.

wants to meet "I will," said Quandt. "Let's Establish a tangible. As for you Nuremberg came, they
showed a letter.

They carried in the pockets of your blended dress coats several books, there were old monastic
writings, including one entitled: Art, the lost Years to introduce. Who wrote the letter?
Who gave you the books? "

"Who?" The one where I was. "

"It is clear," Quandt said with an excited smile, "but you should
tell me how the was said to have been in the.

They will not keep me but for so foolish that I think They knew not. Without doubt it was your
father or your uncle or a brother or a playmate, the same amount.

Hauser! Imagine, if you were before God. And God would ask: Where are you from? Where is my country,
the place where you were born? Who has imputed to you a false name and what your name is the
name that you in the cradle have received? Who has taught you and taught to deceive the people?
What would They reply in your anguish, what answer, if the sublime God to justify calling on
the atonement of deceit perpetrated? "

Caspar stared breathlessly at the teacher. The blood stopped. The whole world upside to him.

"What would you answer," Quandt repeated in a tone between fear and hope;? Him It seemed as if
he were about to blow the locked door.

Caspar stood up heavily and said, with quivering lips: "I would reply:
You are not God, when thou ask of me.

"

Quandt bounced back and clasped hands. "Blasphemer," he cried in a
piercing Voice.

Then he stretched out his right arm and shouted, "Get thee gone, you lust, you damned Lying spirit!
Out with you, infamous! Besudle my air no more! "

Caspar turned around, and while he groped for the doorknob, he croaked
behind the wall clock ten strokes in the Sturmgebrodel.

Sighing, sleepless in Quandt tossed all night on the pillow. His intensity might regret it, because
in the course of the next day he tried to Caspar to approach again. But Caspar was cold and withdrawn.
Quandt evening brought the conversation to the Government Flow, he
said that he had inquired, and said jokingly to Caspar: "Eighteen
grandchildren, Hauser, eighteen are!

Well, you see that I was right? "

Caspar silent.

"But at home, you eat nothing at all more," said the teacher concerned.

"I have no appetite," said Caspar, "almost as soon as I started to
eat, I am already full.

"

On Wednesday, the eleventh of December, Quandt arrived late and very excited at the table.
He had to had his way home from school a violent scene with a carter, in the mountainous Pfarrgasse
his horse was beaten to shame, because the heavily loaded wagon could not go up to the port market.
Quandt had made representations to the crude sidekick and added some people coming to witness
the inhuman cruelty called.

This was gone off the carter with a raised whip on him and had shouted at him, he should go
to hell and not take care of things that did not concern him. "God Thanks be to me the name of the guy
is known, and I will report about the police lieutenant To report "concluded Quandt. He was
not tired to describe how the poor nag ago the vehicle was pulled
over again in vain on the lines and how the black blood hervorgequollen
was under his ribs.

"The rascal," he growled, "I'll show him an animal to toil so. "

Afterwards, had gone as Caspar asked him his wife if he did not notice because Was that Caspar had left
no word about the story.

"Yes, he was completely silent, it has come to me," confirmed Quandt.

Half an hour later he went to Caspar's room and asked him a written complaint against the carter
that he had written to deliver at home Hickel. returned at three
clock Caspar the message back, the police lieutenant had made a multi-day
vacation and was away.

# # Aenigma sui temporis

It happened on the next day, a Friday, when Caspar shortly after twelve,
the court building wanted to leave, that he addressed in the corridor
outside the bottom of the stairs by a strange man was a noble apparently
very man who was tall and slender, a black shoe- and chin beard wearing,
and asked him to give him a few minutes hearing.

Caspar was taken aback, because it was in the voice of the man some very pressing and very little
respect.

They walked a few paces to one side of the stairs, where no one could
pass by.

The Stranger smiled encouragingly, noticing Caspar's shyness, and began at once in the same
urgent and respectful manner, "You are Caspar Hauser?

To date you have been. Tomorrow you will strip off that name. As already taught me the first glimpse
of your face and rocked! Prince, my Prince! Let me kiss your hand.

"

He bent down quickly and kissed her hand reverently Caspar.

Caspar had no words. He looked like one who suddenly stops the heart.

"I come from the farm, I come as emissary of your mother, I come to fetch you," went continued the
stranger, no less hasty, no less respectful met.

"I suspect that you are prepared for a long time. But we must be on guard. We have big obstacles
to spare. You have to fly with me. Everything is ready. The only question is whether to are
to trust me without reserve, and if I click on your absolute confidentiality
can expect?

"

How should Caspar be able to answer that? He looked into the man's face, him the extraordinary in
every way, even a fairy tale appeared, and with stupid attention stuck his view of the numerous
small leaves scars on the nose and cheeks the stranger were visible.

"Their silence is eloquent to me," said the stranger with a quick bow. "The Plan is: They can
be found tomorrow afternoon at four clock in the courtyard, and that in addition to the avenue
of lime trees, if one comes from Freiberg's house. You will be from there to a waiting Lead car.
The nightfall will facilitate our escape. Come without a coat, as you are, you will find befitting
clothes. At the first rest stop at the Limit that we can reach in three hours, you will clothe
themselves. I owe you unknown. They should face the unknown not passed in good faith. Before get
into the car, I'll nimble a sign at which you no doubt see know that I am acting on my behalf
of your mother. "

Caspar did not move.

Only his whole body swayed a little as if he were frozen and the wind threatened to blow it.

"May I see this all as settled," asked the stranger.

He had to repeat the question. As Caspar nodded - serious, heavy, and it was at once throat burnt.

"Will
you arrive at the appointed hour in the appointed place, my lord?"

My Prince! Caspar was deathly pale. He looked again the leaves scars with consumable Attention to.
Then he nodded again, with a movement that the appearance of cold or had of sleepiness.

The stranger raised his humble politeness with his hat, then he went and disappeared into the
Direction against the Swan Lane.

Throughout the presentation, which had lasted about eight to ten minutes, so do not a single
word of Caspar's lips come.

Was it joy, Caspar felt? Joy was such that it made one shiver to the bone? That resistant shudder
ran down my spine like cold water?

He made only a half-dozen steps and then stopped because he thought the ground falling under his
feet. Man goes out of my way, he thought, hurt me not, Snow; Wind, do not be so wild. He looked
at his hand and touched the tip of his finger thoughtfully rigid body to which the stranger kissed
him.

Why the shoemaker still working, it's lunch time, he mused, as he in passing looked in a shop.
The incessant horror ran down his neck down.

It was nice to know that went with each step, with every glance, every thought with time. Because
that it was now all alone, that the time passed.

When he came home he said to the maid, he would eat nothing, and locked
himself in his One room. He stood at the window, and while the tears
ran down his cheeks, He said: "Dukatus has come."

His thoughts were
a bit wild on a night flight birds. Until today I was Caspar Hauser,
he thought, tomorrow I'm at the other, and what am I now? Yesterday
I was Schreiberlein another, and tomorrow I'll probably wear a blue
coat with gold Trimmings, is a sword to bring me Dukatus, long and
narrow and upright as a Binsenhalm. But is all true, can it be? Of
course, it may be because it it must be.

Until it was completely
dark, lit Caspar on the light. The teacher sent up and asked whether
he wanted nothing to eat. He asked for a piece of bread and a glass
of milk. This was brought. He then began to remove his shop; a pile
of papers and letters he has thrown into the fire, the exercise books
and books he arranged with meticulous care. He opened a chest and
pulled out the stuff under various wooden horse, which he nor captivity
on the Vestnerturm ago had. He looked at it long: it was painted white,
with black spots, and had a tail, which fell to the boards. O steed,
thought he saw me through many a year, what will happen to you? I
will come back and pick up and becoming a silver stall 'I will build.
He carefully put the game thing a Ecktischchen next to the window.

It
may properly be surprising that a mind like his, so with gifted idea,
so with experience filled a variety of ways, from the first moment
of the alleged conversion of his fate fell into a faith so blind that
not even a spark of distrust, fear or erglomm only the dubious wonderment
in it. A task-based as far outside the Real, so adventurous in its
suddenness, so zierdelos and simple, that a student a child, a madman
it would have taken offense, and he, so many people's faces were unvermummt
entmummt or by debt to come, he to whom the world is nothing else
was like what the swallow that comes from the South, the nest was
destroyed by boys hands, he seized with unwavering confidence in the
unknown hand that he is an unknown dark held out, the rigid, cold,
silent hand.

But with him was no other hope. Or was it even hope
of the question. Here was the course finite, the transcendent proof,
without being asked, which no word of human language, not even a thought,
an idea, a vision more come close and could be predetermined so accomplished
as the rising of the sun when it is day. O müdgetriebenen their limbs,
their chains on the limbs, their sluggish minutes, her silent Hours!
Only the lime crackles in the wall, still barking in the distance
a dog, nor the blows The snow storm to the window, nor the light crackles
on the candle, and all this will finish Wickedness, because it seems
so stable, so slowly passes.

At nine clock he went to bed. He was
fast asleep, and later in the night he heard every quarter hour strikes
of the churches. Sometimes he sat up and looked anxiously in the darkness.
Then had a dream in the sleep and waking flowed imperceptibly into
each other. He dreamed, namely, He stood before the mirror, and he
thought: How strange, I have such a certain feeling of the smoothness
of the mirror glass, and yet I only dreaming. He woke up or thought
to wake up, left the bed, or thought to do, was in the room to create,
lay down again out, fell asleep, woke up again, and pondered: Should
I just dreamed that with the mirror have? Now he stood before the
mirror, I saw his shadowed image, found something strange that whereof
he shuddered, and covered the mirror with a cloth that was blue and
gold Had braids. When he was now lying down and after a while really
woke up, as recognized he, that everything was just a dream, because
the mirror was not imposed.

It was a long night.

In the morning
he walked onto court as usual.
    Her soldier, closing with the foe,
    Gives for thy sake a deadlier blow;
    His plighted maiden, when she fears
    For him, the joy of her young years,
    Thinks of thy fate, and checks her tears. 

Caspar had, in the fast departure of the guests in the small dressing room for the actor hiding.
The young people got rid of her suit and hastily disappeared. After some time a servant to wipe out the
lights, and discovered that Caspar. As Caspar against the stairs, he heard footsteps behind
him, and wife of Kannawurf came to his side. She asked him if he wanted to go home, and he
said yes. "It is raining," said them down at the gate and stretched out her hand. She waited a
bit, pass to the rain to leave, but there was a heavy cast it, and rattled noisily on the water Trees
and the parched ground. A cold damp air power against them beat, and Ms. by Caspar Kannawurf
invited to go with her into the room, it could take too long. He still followed.

Upstairs they turned on the light, they stood looking pensively into
the flames.

Her shoulders trembled fröstlich. Kaspar was sitting on the sofa. Gradually, he felt such a
great fatigue, that it formally hintüberzog him, and he had to lie on your back. As Clara came
to him and took his hand, which he hastily snatched her but again. He closed his eyes, and for
a moment his face was completely lifeless. Wife of Kannawurf uttered a faint Cry of anguish
from his side and fell to his knees. Then she called her maid and asked for water; she gave
a full glass and handed it to him to drink. He drank a few sips. "What is you, Caspar, "she whispered,
and for the first time they" du "him. He smiled gratefully. "You 're like a sister, "he said
shyly and touched with the fingers of her hair over it bowed head. This word sister had in
his mouth a peculiar sound, it sounded like that was formerly spoken word.

Clara clung to his side, she felt as she had to warm him, he advanced
but anxious away because they wanted to rise again, but he touched
her arm with his hand and looked of pleading with an expression of
pain and love.

"Clara," he said, and believed they pass away or to have to wake up to another life must be, for
the shy-type supplication, he pronounced that name was something supernatural.

There was now such that on hour after hour passed and they were always side by side, silent, silent,
motionless and trembling all over both.

She stretched out her hand to him, and the breath His mouth was flowing in the air equal to theirs.

When
it struck the castle clock twelve, Clara shuddered. She stood up and said deeper affirmation
to himself.

"Never, never, never, never," Then they walked to the window and opened it it. The rain had long
since ceased, the sky was clear, the whole sky was ablaze because of her. Their full chest pushed
against the unknown worlds, because of this, to which she lived, she was satisfied.

She said to Casper, he could stay the night in the castle, but he
replied that this would he did not.

They then went out to see whether Mrs. von Imhoff was still awake. She walked the dining room
over, where the gentlemen were still sitting at the wine and talking loudly. The baroness
had likewise not go to bed. Clara told her that far in Caspar it had been. Mrs. von Imhoff nodded,
but her friend looked a little embarrassed and surprised at. "I'll pack my bags and go tomorrow
morning," said Clara quietly and with a Expression irrevocable certainty of her own and was
sometimes their children's trains strange hard and suffering made. Mrs. von Imhoff got surprised
and came close to the Friend approached. Suddenly, they fell into each other's arms, sobbing
and Clara.

They understood each other, and it was not necessary to speak.

When Clara broke loose, she said she would accompany Caspar still in the city. "That can you possibly
do, "objected Mrs. von Imhoff," or I'll at least give to the servant. "

"Please do not, said," Clara smiled, "you know, that I have no fear. It confuses me too, when one
is anxious on my account. The night is good for me, and I look forward to the lonely way back.
"

Fifteen minutes later, she emigrated with Caspar on the wet road against the city. They talked
and nothing now, and before the teacher's house, they shook hands. "Now you probably go away
from me, Clara, "said Caspar, and suddenly she looked with a veiled
glance.

She was as surprised as moved by these words that betrayed a deep foreboding. As his eyes are beautiful,
they thought they are light brown like a deer, but he is like otherwise
a deer, the sad and puzzled in the dark forest stands.

"Yes, I go," she said at last.

"And why? With you I felt comfortable. "

"I'll be back," she assured with a forced cordiality, behind a cry
died.

"I'll be back. We will write to us. At Christmas, I'll be back. "

"I'll be back, this I have ever heard," Caspar said bitterly. "Until Christmas is long. And do write
'I do not. What has the letter is after all just paper. Go only, goodbye. "

"It can not be otherwise," whispered Clara, and her eyes sought the stars. "Look, Caspar, up there
is the eternal. We will not forget how all the others. We want to forget anything. Oh, forget,
forget, it is all the evil in the world. We own the stars, Caspar, and if you look up, I am with
you. "

Caspar shook his head. "Goodbye," he said wearily.

On the ground floor, a window was opened, and the crowned with a cap main bed of the teacher
was visible in order to disappear again immediately afterwards. It
was a silent reminder.

I will pray Bettine that she visits him every day, thought Clara, as she alone the deserted
streets was, and I'll bring him harm if I stay, a chasm yawns to
meet me, how terrible he is not thinking.

Sister! As I was, when he saw me sister called! The heavenly bliss I knocked at the breast. So I'd lost
a brother found, and even more, but, just God, it must not be more. To touch him! His Disturb sleep!
O criminal lips, a kiss that means nothing! 'Had I done it, I would have called his killer,
I can do better than run away? Genius is a good protect him, measured, would I feel protected by
my poor presence of him, a so noble a thing can not be destroyed, because two eyes turn away
from him.

This confused and excited ideas Episode unveiled a hopelessly tangled mind, the In his enthusiasm
the decision interpreted a victim despondent, dazzled by the sight of so much sadness in his fate
and going astray at the crossroads of love.

The view constantly directed to the sky, on the beautiful constellation of the car, the like
a frozen sponge teeth flash in dark blue, Clara did not notice that the portal a figure of
the castle declined. They bounced back only when her nocturnal person,
the Disguised way.

O God, the gruesome, she thought.

Hickel, because this was bowed to the bewildered woman. "Pardon, madam, pardon," he murmured. "And
not just for this attack, and for the other.

You are too good, Madame. If you had the grace to consider that your sublime beauty leaps around
with my head like a mischievous boy and his circle, if you would consider that even the comedy
game is a point where the crazed imagination of which their Wishes and sullied the pictorial
jealous thinks something real, you would perhaps Their contrite servant
by a comforting word happy.

"

All this sounds simple, informal, adorned, scornful and desperate.

He seemed the words crush between his teeth, and you could see him,
that he was only with difficulty stiff and kept quiet.

Clara took a step back, crossed his arms, pressed firmly against the chest and commanding said:
"Let me pass!"

"Madame, your mouth is the hour from some," continued Hicks and raised his arm with the rigid
motion of a wax figure. "I'm never been a beggar. Here I stand and
beg. Do not deny your face, believe it can be an angel!

"

He stood aside silently walked past him, Clara. She rang, and the porter, on the they waited,
opened at once.

When she was inside, she felt a terrible sickness. Its brain was a little torn as. On the stairs
she stopped, she felt as if they had to turn back and the terrible man once again address.

When Caspar was the next afternoon to Imhoff, he was informed that Madame Kannawurf had already
left. He asked Mrs. von Imhoff, they would show him Clara's image
that he has the first social evening, which he attended at the palace,
not seen.

The Baroness led him into a bay room where the portrait of two ancestral portraits hanging on the
wall.

He sat down and looked at it before long in silent attention.

When he left, promised Mrs. von Imhoff to let him make a drawing
of the image.

He was so distracted that he did not even thanked.

Quandt is making the final assault on the secret

Although for a time by a disciplinary transfer Hickel was mentioned, was reported about nothing
Details, and the matter seemed gradually to be forgotten.

No doubt there were all sorts of hidden influences in the game, which
ensured the police lieutenant.

"The man is not be solved, "said the insider," he's too dangerous and knows too much, "Of course.
Hickel was useful in the service and feared by his subordinates extremely.

It was His life changes and more impenetrable, except in the casino and in office, he said, with no
People.

At the police station he was half the night, but the only reason to harass his people.

Quandt had even learned to fear him. One afternoon in October, the teacher sat with his Mrs. Caspar
and the coffee came, suddenly saber rattling Hicks walked into the room without greeting to
Caspar and asked imperiously: "Tell me, houses, you may know something
about the whereabouts of the soldier Schildknecht?

"

Caspar was ashen. The lieutenant stared at him with sparkling eyes and thundered, impatient
about the long silence: "Do you know anything or know anything?

Speak, man, or, so help me God, I'll let you on the spot to prison! "

Caspar rose. A button of his jacket became entangled in the fringe
of the tablecloth, and as he backed away, the coffee pot fell down
and the black brew poured over the cloth.

The teacher gave a cry, but Quandt made an angry face, for the cocky Occurrence of the police
lieutenant enraged him, and he felt the more surprising as Hickel Caspar is just over zealous
for months of a stiff and grim restraint had. "What's he supposed to have to do with the deserter,"
he said indignantly.

"You can be my only concern," roared Hickel.

"Oho, lieutenant, in my home I contact I made a polite manner," said Quandt.

"Oh! You are a Schwachmatikus, Teacher. What does not grow on your crap, the ästimieren They do not.
Anyway, what is it?

Two years's ago since the person living with you, and we are just as smart as before. If that
was all your art, you can only . Home fiddling "

The blow was sitting.

Quandt swallowed his anger and said nothing.

"But it is over now," continued Hicks, "I'll talk to the Councilor, and Hauser comes to me in the care.
"

"So that you will do me just a favor," said Quandt and walked erect the room.

The teacher sat with downcast eyes. Hicks walked hastily up and down and dried with the sleeve
of his forehead. "Like me is how I am alone," he murmured, almost bewildered. Then He turned back
grumbling to Caspar. "Wretch condemned wretch!

What a devil came over you! By the way, "he added softly, and stood next to Caspar, "The boy
has been arrested and will be delivered. If the Plassenburg the guy. "

"That's not true," said Caspar, also quietly, stretched and some singing. He smiled, Then he
laughed and laughed so that he, with his face turned pale strong.

Hickel was suspicious. He chewed on his lip and looked gloomily into
space.

Suddenly he attacked according to his cap, and with a nasty, hasty glance at Caspar he withdrew.

Quandt
was not inclined to the insult done to him the police lieutenant, is sitting on to leave. He
complained to the Councilor Hofmann, but he did not seem very willing to interfere. The teacher
took the opportunity to bring yet another matter to a head.

Since Feuerbach's death was the Councilor for the supervision of Caspar's care. To help as
which was the Count Stanhope likely no longer had the mayor and the Enders Community approached
for support, but a decision was still pending. Meanwhile Caspar received by the court a small
pay rise for his writing, the money provided he time the teachers. The limited conditions did
not allow him the slightest Freedom in its spending. In early October he had been confirmed, and
awaited with longing he called the daily allowance, which had him suspended by the city for it.
Displeasure over the Disappearance, he turned to the priest Fuhrmann,
advised him that he should the teacher To ask to go to the municipal
office to operate the payment.

"So little do I not, your Excellency,
I am not the supplicant, my pride allows not, "said Quandt.

The Councilor
shrugged his shoulders. "Give him the time being but the few dollars
from your pocket" he said, it "s certainly will replace you soon."

is
"In terms of the houses there are no certainties," said Quandt, "I
have already Expenses enough and do not know if I can see so far.
"

The Councilor thought. "He's still wealthy and powerful friends,"
he said, "can but help. "

"Oh my God," sighed the teacher, "which
he is much too interesting in that they at his little necessities
think. "

"I will come to you again tomorrow and the house to ask
for what he really so urgent Money needs, "concluded the Councilor
the call.

Of the evening came late at Caspar Quandt room and begged
him with uplifted hands, him but not to enter the house, he would
indeed do everything you ask of him, "only not a police lieutenant,
everything, just not, "he said.

The teacher reassured him by force
and said it could temporarily be no question of Police lieutenant
had just scare him do. "No," said Caspar, "even the officiant Maier
has spoken today on the court like this. "

"Well, Hauser, now you
behave like a little boy but, yet they are finally a grown man, "Quandt
said reproachfully. "I can not take it too seriously, you'll love
to overdo it and put themselves childish. The lieutenant would not
you bite off his head, though I admit that sometimes he has some rough
manners. But you 're now a Christian in the full meaning of the word,
and no doubt you have the Heard saying: treat your enemies well so
you will heap coals of fire on her head. "

Caspar nodded. "It is
about a Gesätzlein in Dittmar> wheat grains," he said.

That's right,
yes we have gone through together, "went Quandt continued brisk. "You
know what! You retain the beautiful mark-word right in the memory,
I propose that you, me Your own thoughts about it all down. I want
it for my sake as a workload for to consider and you can use the whole
afternoon to tomorrow. "

Caspar seemed to agree.

The Councilor was
not, as he promised, the next, but only at the second following day.
When he entered the room, the teacher is just talking with angry gestures
at Caspar. On the question of the Privy Councillor, which Caspar had
done wrong, said Quandt, "I myself have quite too much to bother with
it. Day before yesterday I asked him a theme for the German essay,
he promised me to draw it, and he had the whole of yesterday afternoon
to time. Just I demand now his book, here and convince yourself, your
Excellency, not even a Line he has written. 

She lowered her, while she gave me her hand, his head so deep that her eyes I do not could
see, but I could see her small white teeth dug deep into her lip.

We danced together since, with only a few rounds, because they might also feel that I was not about
dancing. Soon we were standing together before the big Ausgangstuer, the two Wings were opened
wide. I looked out involuntarily, and it was very dark, only The tribes of the next book were
illuminated by the glow falling out. But a Current moving night air drove refreshing approach
towards us, and while from one side the screech of violins and the shuffling of the dancers to beat
my ear, I heard at the same time trickling out of the dream in the
leafy crowns of the forest.

The girl standing next to me, without speaking, his eyes .-- beaten to the ground I made up
A Heart. "How will it go Chris?" I asked.

She shuddered and mumbled something I did not understand, but on her
pale cheeks were two dark red spots visible.

"What he would say," I continued, "if he were here!"

I saw her gasping for breath as her hand fumbled herabhaengende desperately to the dress. "Oh
please," she exclaimed softly, "not here, not only here!"

"Where?" Do you hear me, Lore? "

She looked up at me. "Outside," she said softly, "I'll come out the same, let You assign to us
after this round - I ask you already do, but I just now you Sitting in the next room looked. "

We
danced again, and then I took her to court and stepped through the door in the small Colonnade
addition .-- It thundered in the distance, and when I went down two steps into the open, weather,
the light was that I for a moment, the individual tree trunks up to the lake down down there
and distinguish the flashing of the water level was.

I walked around the house to the bowling alley and waited.

Not long, I saw the gleam of a white dress, I heard the light step
of the girl, and immediately later she was even deep sigh of relief
to me .-- So I was at last alone with her, in the dark, in the summer
night, but there were other times.

Before I could speak to her, had pulled a paper from his pocket,
the appearance of lightning went about it, and I recognized postmark
and stamp the letter.

"It's Chris," said Lore, by put the paper in my hand that I had involuntarily
extended thereafter.

"From Chris!" I cried. "When you have received the letter?"

"Today!" she said softly.

"And you're here?"

She was silent.

"May I read the letter, Lenore?"

"I wanted to ask."

I went to one of the lighted hall window in the rear facade of the house .-- Lenore was I followed
slowly, and I feel like while reading their eyes constantly on me were addressed.

It was a long letter, Chris gave an account of his silence. He had the business his uncle's taken
over, but the conditions had long been in limbo since everything
depended on the marriage of a daughter to a wealthy chimney sweep;
already he was, just as a curious Schneider had visited him from home,
with the devices busy with her wedding chamber was as if the whole
matter be tabled again in question was set.

But now everything was finally arranged, the daughter had been married,
and he himself was to acquire in the next few days, the champion right
in the strange city.

Then he invited her to come because he could not continue to get them. "As soon as I answer
your have, "were the last words of the letter," I will send you the
fare, it is already counted and sealed.

The house you will easily see, in addition to the green bank, is by the door, a lime tree,
is as at home in front of your parents house, a room that I for the
young people themselves masters have prepared, is quite like the shade.
"-

I had folded the letter and handed it back. But Lore shook his
head. "Write to him, Sir Philip!" she said as a tear after another
about their Cheeks, dripped, and quietly, and laboriously she added:
"He meant well."

"And you do not come himself?" I asked.

She looked
at me, so with a look of pleading despair that I regretted this question
have done for them. "Lore," I said, "because nobody can help?"

She
lowered her head by leaning his forehead on a windowpane, the White
Rose was still fragrant on the shiny black hair. After in
the interval we met in the stables, she pretended she did not know me. Once when we Looking at
each other with the same horses were, they took between me and the Count she hastily my hand
and pressed it a little, without looking at me, and while in conversation remained with her friends.

It
was something, it was a handshake!

After she sat across from me again, majestic, and candy shoved in her mouth. After the performance
I saw it with the count in an automobile proceeding, looks of admiration followed her. I felt
exhausted, I was full of envy, full of agonizing jealousy, full of defiant, rebellious feelings.
I wanted to be at her side - to hell with this Swedish Count!

Morose, a listed lover went, I alone through the streets and then in a wine bar to have dinner.
An accursed chance would have it there already Jamaica was sitting with her friends, with oysters
and wine. She looked surprised and smiled. She had To think that I had traced her. So I left the
restaurant, went into another and my anger was drowned in Burgundy.

The next morning came a note in which she apologized for higher duties would have prevented
it, etc. The term "higher duties" not amused me, but annoyed me.

She came to tea one afternoon. Slim, in brown silk, discreet and attracted exemplary. She smoked
cigarettes, chatted from my Turkish, theater and racing course and felt obviously very comfortable
in my comfy armchairs and on the Lama coat of my divan. It was me a pleasure to watch. God knows,
she sometimes moves to feel where you said that she was surrounded by an invisible ermine. Sometimes
they sat in silence suddenly there, with a clever, slightly melancholy brilliance in mind when they
thought of something enormously Serious. She was a little nervous, especially her hands, the
rest they gave the impression a secular, but elegant young woman. Just as they kissed and how
they sometimes sucking put his arms around me, that was courtesans-Art.

She came often. We did not talk about love, although I loved it from time to time violent but
I wanted her to hide my feelings. Then, one afternoon, when I chatted to the couch was lying
and she sat with me, she suddenly threw her arms around me, staring at me with eyes of a beautiful
animal, and while the color of her face darkened, flowed through her like lava from her lips: "I love
you" was followed by a breakout! Sun unbridled passion that I thought she would suffocate me.

From
that day on, was a shade of humility in their nature to me, which
I loved and the I was delighted.

We spent happy hours, just the thought of the Swedish Count tortured me and caused me sleepless
nights. Whenever I start to like her wanted, she pressed me in silence her little hand over
her mouth so that I do not speak was allowed. Yes, I was jealous, but I noticed they had not
the slightest intention of to separate from the count. I had no special means, and she was
very spoiled.

One day she told me laughingly that she would travel to a few weeks in a seaside resort, the Swede
would go on a month to relatives in his home. She asked that I should stay with her. I said
at once, after which she danced skipped across the room.

A few days later we arrived in a lovely beach nearby Baltic Sea, the whole of beech and Coniferous
forests surrounded.

We rented a beautiful villa situated on the heights of the porch, we overlooked the beach and
the expanse of the sea.

Delightful were the days that followed.

We rode a lot, it was very useful horses Rent, and Jamaica in the saddle felt very happy. We often
trotted in first morning along the sea when the sun is still struggling with the silver morning
clouds and the morning breeze vigorously blew across the water.

On the beach we had dug a castle and decorated with numerous colorful streamers. Jamaica usually wore
a dark blue cloth skirt, a bright silk blouse and Panama. She lay on like rotten in the sand
by sliding grains pleasant trickling through the fingers was staring
into the blue sky, or they read Maupassant and smoked cigarettes.

I they always saw with a fine, comforting feeling of being in love in front of me: the slender
Body, the dark hair on pale sands, the bloodless hands, the delicate bonds of Feet below the
broken silk stockings.

The food we took on the porch of our room. Next door, a couple was eating with his two teenage boys,
on the other an Englishman. That we saw more often, as he the balustrade and leaned out his
porch smoking a Shagpfeife. He had a clear-cut Face and clear, water-colored eyes. Jamaica him
sometimes imitated by the grotesque Supported on the balustrade, staring out with a stiff neck and
pushed forward a little lower lip, A few clouds tobacco hinpaffte
forward and a long-drawn "= o = yes was heard."

A In the morning we met him on horseback. The horse was too small for him, his long legs hung
down, and from a distance he looked like Don Quixote. He greeted us, as he rode past. Jamaica
saw several times, laughing at him, which I thought was unnecessary.

Yes, first they laughed at him and made fun of him, but I soon realized that he they took an
interest in more detail, more than themselves, perhaps even suspected. When I was a At noon
came home and stepped on the porch, I saw that Jamaica over the balustrade rejected, as the Englishman
next door, and that they talked to each other. I confess, It went through me hot with jealousy.
Jamaica had such a brilliant and, I found almost sacrificial face
as she spoke to him that I was inwardly outraged this betrayal and
how in a flash has suddenly everything foresaw how it had come.

As she saw me, she was totally at ease and introduced me as her husband. After at table she said.?
"He is really very nice" So I asked.

She was also henceforth trusting and loving to me how I was used, but those Nuance of humility,
of which I spoke earlier and which I loved so much, I meant not to feel. I was somewhat locked in my
nature, I laughed not so at ease, and Then soon came day when I realized it clear that Jamaica's
feelings were lukewarm. She had still a little cuddly, but I felt she forced herself, she took
pains to lovingly to me to be, because they wanted me to grieve. With pain, I took all this
is true and it could not prevent. Their changed nature meant that my love only grew. She noted
that the increasing passion, and I felt embarrassed to her. The mutual subterranean torture,
the two people could be so nervous, began already, I swirled in it like being in an agitated water,
but I controlled myself yet completely.

In this state, was a nonsensical idea up to me, namely the idea of ​​Jamaica could marry, so
they do not escape me, and this idea soon took possession of me completely.

One morning we visited the English in our castle on the beach. Jamaica was just reading, they looked
up and a quick shine on your face. He showed us a small fossils, he had found, and since Jamaica
was so excited about it, he gave her.

His behavior was in fact completely correct, just annoyed me, the
excessive calm in character, the slightly Was arrogant.

He asked to be allowed time to ride in the morning with us, Jamaica
was very pleased with this proposal.

Then he gave us two hands and left.

can "be" You could kind to him, "said Jamaica, when he was gone.

"Do you think I asked only;?

Nothing else.

You read on and held it, I saw it, surrounded the small fossil set
in her soulful hand.

In the afternoon we had ordered horses. We rode along the beach, it
was a hot, enervating day.

We spoke little, it was something between us that we desire to speak adopted.

We rode a small horse, and I saw Jamaica sharply from the side, then I said:

"Jamaica, I want to know something about you."

"What?" She asked in a deep breath and looked at me astonished.

"You love the British?"

She shook her head.

"But," I said, 'You think, I do not notice? I can not stand it.

"

She handed me the hand over, with a friendly, sympathetic smile. So there one hand a good child
to leave, I thought. I do not take it.

"Jamaica, I love you," I said now. "I do not know, I think, in future without You should spend.
I want you from now on only belong to me - do you understand? - Only me and no other. Tell me,
will you be my wife? "

She said nothing and saw only muted view of the mane of her horse.

"I want that we get married. Jamaica, say something!

"

My words sounded as if they were on their knees before her, - but she smiled.

"No, never," she said firmly.

"You do not want?" I cried and hurt hard.

"Never!"

The anger took hold of me. It opposed the request, they struggled against this gift through which
I wanted to give me their very own?

"I will," I cried again. "I will force you!"

"I hate you," she shouted towards me now, her eyes glowed with anger. "I despise you! I love the
English! "

As I raised my whip and let it fly down with force on her beautiful back. You let out a scream verängsteten,
where she sank like a child, and her horse went through.

I saw them driving out mad, and could not help it. Hi, I thought, what is things be? She stayed
for a while, then I realized the forces she left, she stumbled back and forth and finally fell to the
ground. Fortunately, they are not stuck in the stirrup, I was relieved. The horse made shortly after
stop, looked around in wonder and jumped in small Rates move up and down.

I rushed up to them, dismounted and raised in Jamaica.

It was chalky pale and almost passed out.

"Sorry," I said, she said nothing and did not look at me. She was breathing quickly and leaned
a little bit at me, very tired.

"Sorry," I said again. Finally, I gave her the reins of my horse and went, to capture the theirs.
It could be quite willing to take, and it was soaked and steamed like a chimney. I brought
to Jamaica, they had huddled with weakness in the sand; as they sat,
beautiful and pale as a pearl, it looked pathetic.

Now she rose, I realized she wanted to mount the horse again.

"Help me," she said.

I helped her into the saddle and then jumped himself.

"I rode home alone," she said flatly. I dared make no answer. In step, the very broken, she rode the
seas along at home, a sad picture.

I trotted in the opposite direction. I often looked around - it was always the same melancholy
sight: a weary step in the steaming horse trotted meaning the tired
Jamaica about themselves.

I pulled out into the woods, came on a lake, on forest houses in several villages over and
delayed for hours before I rode home.

When I came home at night, Jamaica was gone, without leaving a word. By the host I learned that even
the British had left. I had to smile though I feel bad was. I lit a cigar, sat on the balustrade
of the veranda and looked for a long sea, defiant, alone, with tangled mess stormy emotions.

The
next day I traveled, not home, but a friend of the country. We sat for hours while the sun was in
a boat and fished, shot at birds of prey, swam, rode saw the peacocks, as they beat on the lawn
wheel and shouted Pao! Pao! - And the evening came the forester and the pastor of the nearest
village to carouse with us.

When I tanned after weeks back in town and arrived in a cab from the train station headed for out
of my apartment, I saw pass by Jamaica on me, lovely in a summer dress, I did not know. She
sat on the side of the Englishman, her face of unspeakable Serenity. As a flexible flower
of the South, they sat there, upright and proud of the beautiful
back I suggested.

Farewell, Jamaica. Farewell.

Castle Carnin

I,
Konrad Tedrahn, painter by profession, tell a story. I play a sad
Role in it, but I tell them.

I was a guest of the Count Lockwitz
at Castle Carnin. The castle is an old manor house with tall windows
and a terrace in front of the driveway. On this terrace, we often
sat. She was the center where they met - in this case we took the
coffee after dinner, sitting here We in the evenings, dressed in light
coats, chatted and puffing blue smoke into the air, while the roar
from the meadows of grazing cows or penetrated across from the village
a song the young girls who went through the evening.

A circular lawn,
bordered by gravel paths lay in front of the terrace. Then came the
view of an avenue of lime trees capped, which formed the entrance
to the castle. saw behind the avenue to them in fields and a mill
with Rafter wings. The rape bloomed in the fields, lemon yellow, and
swollen clouds of his scent over when a gust of wind came. On both
sides of the lock He was the park was delicious old trees that towered
into the country, and was a Waters flowing through the pond-like widened
in some places, and hidden in the Angles garish green algae and inextricable
Alisma overgrown. Had they walked through the park, then one came
to the dike. And it was hinangestiegen the dike, we looked into the
valley the Elbe, in the willows by narrow water creeks rose and flew
wild ducks. At the back, a silver-gray band, you could see the stream.
Large ships sailed on it to the valley, spooky like phantoms, and
in the distance, miles away, we knew the sea.

Pentecost was imminent,
and it fell into the second week of June. I was still on the hard
Carnin spend, then I wanted to say goodbye to this lonely house in
this park and this People who were dear to me. I had many painted
on Carnin. The count was loving art and recorded with taste. We often
sat in front of the same reasons, I painted and drew it. The Countess,
apparently younger than her years, was musical. Not infrequently,
when I in the park sat broke over their melodies she played piano
and sang with a soul moving Voice. Sometimes they sang little songs
to the lute, in the evening when we were sitting on the terrace. During
the day she was devoted to her children. The eldest daughter, Countess
Anna was, seventeen years seemed rather old and the sister of the
Countess to be. Outwardly it resembled the mother, only it was bigger.
Yes, if the two slim figures arm in arm through the garden went, and
they saw from afar, we would have like to swear that they were sisters.

Then
came a thirteen-year-old Komteßlein named Charlotte, a serious child
with delicate limbs and a lively spirit. She made verses and wrote
them in a pink silk book, she went often alone and thoughtful under
the trees of the park or driving in the car, flowers in the Lap, and
you could hear if you passed around as they sang. Among all the volcanoes, which I visited, only the Jorullo in Mexico even more difficult
to To climb because the whole mountain is covered with loose ash.

When the sugar loaf covered with snow, as in the case of winter, so the slope of the appendix
in the greatest danger to travelers bring. Le Gros showed us the spot where Captain Baudin on
his trip to Tenerife was nearly killed. Muthig had it towards the end of December 1797 with the
naturalists adveniens, Mauger and Riedl climbing the summit of the volcano made. In half the
height of the cone, he fell and rolled up to the Rambleta small plane down, luckily made a
snow-covered Lavahaufen that He did not fly down even further with accelerated speed. As I
am assured, is a traveler, who rolled down the slope covered with
a firm turf of the Col de Balme , was found suffocated.

Once on the top of the Piton, we wondered not a little that we hardly took place, sit down
comfortably. We faced a small circular wall of porphyry-type Lava stone base with pitch, this
wall hinterte us to look down into the crater. [La Caldera or the boiler of the Pics. The name
recalls the Oules * * of the Pyrenees.] The wind blew so violently from the west, that we could
hardly stand up. It was eight in the morning and clock We were numb with cold, although the thermometer
stood slightly above the freezing point. Since long we were used to a very high temperature,
and the dry wind increased the frost feeling because he the small
layer of warm and moist air, which by the perspiration formed around
us, constantly led him away.

The crater of the Pic has, as far as the rim, the craters of most other volcanoes, I have visited,
such as that of the Vesuvius, and the Jorullo Pipincha, no resemblance. In this keeps the Piton
its cone shape to the summit, the whole slope is the same angle inclined and uniformly with
a layer of very finely-divided pumice covered, one has the head of these three volcanoes is
reached, you can look up freely on the floor of the pit. The Peak of Teneriffe and Cotopaxi,
however, are built quite differently, at its peak running a comb or a circular wall around
the crater, and from afar, this wall is like a small cylinder At present in a truncated cone
Cotopaxi When one recognizes this peculiar structure than 2000 toises far with the naked eye,
wherefore also no man to the crater of this volcano has come. At the Peak of Tenerife is the
comb that as a Parapet around the crater is so high that he could not go to the Caldera * * if
not to the east is a gap territory find to arise from a very old Lavaerguß seems. Through this
gap, we went down to the bottom of the funnel, which is elliptical; the major axis running from
northwest to southeast, approximately North 35 degrees East. The greatest width of the opening we
estimated at 300 feet [97 m], the smallest at 200 feet [65 m]. These data are in fairly with
the measurements of Berguins, Verela and Borda, according to these travelers measure the two
axes 40 and 30 fathoms. [Cordier, who visited the summit of Pics, four years after my estimates
the major axis to 65 toises.

Lamanon it is at 50 T., Odonnell, there are the craters 550 Baras (236 toises) Scope.]

It is easily seen that the size of a crater not only on the height and mass of the Mountain
depends whose main opening it forms. Its length is even rare in relation with the intensity of volcanic
fire, or the activity of the volcano. At Vesuvius, the against the peak of Tenerife just a hill, the
crater is five times larger in diameter. Considering that very large volcanoes eject from their
peak a few substances of side columns one could try to adopt be, that the lower the volcanoes,
their craters, at same force and activity, the greater should be-ing. However, there are huge
volcanoes in the Andes, which only have very small openings, and it could be considered a geological
Law stand up, that the colossal mountains at their summits the craters of small size have, if
not in the Cordilleras several examples [The great volcanoes Cotopaxi and Rucupichincha to have
my measurements crater with a diameter of more than 500 and 700 fathoms.] the opposite behavior would
find strength. I will find in the pursuit of this opportunity to establish facts necessary to state
that once on what may be called the external structure of volcanoes, some light could throw.
This building is as varied as the volcanic phenomena themselves, and wants you to rise geological
ideas that are worthy of the grandeur of nature, so one must give up the view, as if all the
volcanoes, the model of Vesuvius, Stromboli and Aetna would be built.

The outer edges of the caldera * * are almost perpendicular, they represent something like The
Somma, seen from the Atrio dei Cavalli. We got to the bottom of the crater on Streak of broken
lava, which runs up to the gap in the enclosure. Heat was only feel about some columns from
which water vapor flows with a peculiar humming. Some of these air holes or gaps are äußerhalb
circumference of the crater, the outer Edge of the parapet which surrounds the crater. A accommodated
in the same thermometer rose rapidly to 68 and 75 degrees. He showed without doubt an even
higher temperature, but we could See the instrument only after we pulled out, we did not want
his hands Incinerate. Cordier has found several columns in which the heat of the boiling water
was the same. One would think these vapors that come out in bursts containing hydrochloric acid
or sulfuric acid, but it is allowed to condense on a cold body, they show no peculiar taste, and the
attempts by several physicists prove with reagents that the fumaroles Pic of the exhale only pure
water, and appearance, with my observations in the crater Jorullo of the match, the more deserves
more attention than hydrochloric acid in most Volcanoes occurs in large quantities and Bauquelin
even in the porphyritic lavas of similar Sarcouy found in the Auvergne
hydrochloric acid.

I have in place the view of the inner crater rim shown how he presents himself, when we descend
to the site located gap. Nothing stranger than this succession storage of lava show the curves,
such as the Alpine limestone. These benches are huge sometimes horizontally, sometimes inclined
and undulating wound, and every indication that once the whole mass was liquid, and that several
disturbing causes conspired to each current his specific direction to give. At the top of peripheral
wall you can see the odd branches, how to observe it from the desulfurized coal. The northern
border is the highest; Southwest against the wall decreases significantly and at the outer
edge is a tremendous slagged lava caked. West against the rock is broken, and by a wide column
you can see the ocean horizon.

Perhaps the force of elastic vapors the moment when the lava in the crater, which has now overflowing,
torn here.

The interior of the funnel indicates that the volcano for thousands of years, only his Sides spit fire.
This assertion is based not on it because the bottom of the Caldera no large openings show, as
one might expect. The physicist, the nature have observed yourself, know that many volcanoes filled
in the meantime, two outbreaks and seem almost extinct, but that in the volcanic layers are very
rough throat, and slags are sounding brilliant. We notice small increases, distension of the elastic
vapors, small spatter and cinder cones, including those of the openings. The crater of the Peak
of Tenerife keien shows these characteristics, not its bottom is
in the state remained as an outbreak leaves him.

Due to the ravages of time and the influence of the vapors Are the walls chipped and have the
pool covered with large blocks of lava stoned.

It can be reached safely on the floor of the crater. In a volcano whose Hauptthätigkeit the
goes to top, as in the Vesuvius, changes the depth of the crater before and after each outbreak;
on the Peak of Tenerife, however, the depth seems a long time remained the same to . Being
Edens, they estimated in 1715 to 115 feet [37 m], Cordier in 1803 to 110 [35.5 m]. After the
eyes measure I would have thought that the funnel was not even that deep. In his current state,
it is actually a Solfatara he is a great scope for interesting Observations,
but impressive is not his vision.

Great, the point is only through the Height above sea level, by the deep silence in the region,
through the immense Earth-space, which overlooks the eye at the top of the mountain.

The ascent of the volcano of Tenerife is not the only way attractive that they reach us so Material
for scientific research provides, it is still far more by being the, has the sense of the grandeur
of nature provides a wealth of scenic attractions. Such sentiments to describe a difficult task,
they inspire us to more deeply, as it somewhat vague have, as the immensity of space and the
size, novelty and variety of We bring objects around with them. If a traveler to the high peaks
of our Globe, the cataracts of the great rivers, to describe the winding valleys of the Andes
has, he runs the risk of the reader through the monotonous expression of his admiration to
tire. It seems to me the purpose that I have with this itinerary in mind, reasonable, to describe
the peculiar character that distinguishes every land. It teaches the Physiognomy of a landscape
deste know better, the closer one conceives of the individual features,
compares them with each other and so in the way of analysis investigates
the sources of pleasure, offers us the big picture of nature.

The travelers know from experience that one on top of high mountains often such a beautiful Views
and has watched as varied scenic effects than on the peaks of the Height of Mount Vesuvius, the
Rigi, the Puy de Dome. Colossal mountains like Chimborazo, the Antisana Mont Blanc or have such a large
mass that is covered with the rich vegetation Levels only at a great distance and see a bluish
fragrance uniformly all over the landscape content. Its slim shape and its peculiar situation
now united by the Pic Tenerife, the advantages of lower peaks with those who offer it as very
significant heights. Overlooking at its peak not only an immense sea horizon on the highest
mountains of the neighboring islands goes up, you see the forests of Tenerife and the inhabited
coastal areas near such a way that still shapes and colors in the most beautiful contrasts emerge.
It is as if the volcano, the island that serves as the basis crushed him; it rises from the bosom
of the sea three times higher than the clouds move in the summer. If half centuries since
his fire extinguished crater of Stromboli as sheaves ejections of Aeolian Islands, Tenerife
was the peak of the skipper in a radius of more than 260 miles to
serve as a lighthouse.

We camped at the edge of the crater, looking first to the northwest, where the coasts adorned
with villages and hamlets are. By the wind-driven continuously back and forth masses of vapor
our feet gave us the most diverse show. A flat layer of clouds between us the deep regions of the
island, the same one of which was discussed above, was here and there by the small air currents breached,
which nigh the Earth's surface warmed by the sun sent up to us. The port of Orotava, which
is anchored ships, the gardens and vineyards around the city were visible through an opening
which at any moment to be larger appeared. For these solitary regions, we looked down into an
inhabited world, and we amused us on the vibrant contrast between the barren flanks of the PIC,
its covered with slag steep slopes, its plant-less plateau, and the laughs end sight of the cultivated
land; we saw how the family divide by decreasing temperature with height in zones. Under the Piton
start braiding the slagged, shiny lava overdraft, a violet [Viola cheiranthifolia], which is
the Viola decumbens close to the slope of the volcano goes up to 1740 toises [3390 m] high, higher
herbaceous plants not only as the others, but even higher than the grasses, which in the Alps
and on the back of the Cordilleras directly knocking the plants from the family of the cryptogams.
Garnish with flowers bedechte Retamabüsche the small, of the rain flows cracked and blocked by the
side valleys of outbreaks; under the Retama follows the region of ferns and in this tree-like
that of the Gentiles. Forests are of laurels, Rhamnus and strawberry trees between the heaths
and the vines with and fruit trees planted grounds. A rich green carpet stretches from the
plane the broom and the zone of Alpine herbs, to the groups of palm trees and muses, that purging
to walk the ocean seems. I indicate here only the main features of this plant map to, the following
I give some details concerning the plant geography of the island of Tenerife.

That on top of the village Pics, vineyards and gardens on the coast of a placed so close seem to
bear the astonishing transparency of the air at much. Despite the significant Distance, we saw
not only the houses, the trees, the rigging of the ships, we shine also saw the rich vegetation of the
plains in the most vivid colors. This phenomenon is not only due to the high position, she points to a
peculiar nature the air in the hot countries. In all zones, an object appears, who is on the
Sea level is and from which the light beam horizontally in the direction of less bright, as if
he was from the summit of a mountain, see where the water vapor layers of air reach of decreasing density.
Equally striking differences from the influence of Climates conditional, shines the mirror of
a lake or a wide river at the same distance less if he was from the crest of the Swiss Alps, as if
he was from the summit of the Cordilleras seen from Peru or Mexico. The more pure and serene, the air
is, the more complete is the Light weakened during its passage. If one of the South Pacific ago
on the plateau of Quito or Antisana comes, one wonders in the first few days, moved as near objects
That appear in seven or eight miles away. The Peak of Teyde not only enjoys but of advantage
to lie within the tropics, but the dryness of the air columns, which continually Go up to the
neighboring African plains and bring about the westerlies rapidly gives the air of the Canary Islands,
a transparency, behind not only the air Naples and Sicily, but even the clear sky of Peru and Quito
to stand back. On this transparency primarily the beauty of the landscapes is based in the tropics;
it raises the brightness of the colors of the plants and increases the effect of their magic harmonies
and their contrasts. If a large mass of light around the objects common in certain Hours of
the day tires the external senses, so the inhabitants of southern climates by moral Pleasures
for compensation. Momentum and clarity of mind, inner serenity meet the transparency of the
surrounding air. This gives these impressions, without the limitations of to go beyond Europe, and
I appeal to the travelers, those who through the miracle of have seen and thought of Kusnt glorified
countries, the happy climes Greece and Italy.

Nothing that we extended our stay at the top of Pics, awaiting the moment when we spend the
whole archipelago of the Happy Isles (18) would be overlooked.

We saw our Feet Palma, Gomera and the Grand Canaria. The mountains of Lanzerota, the haze at
sunrise been, were soon covered themselves in dense clouds. Only the ordinary refraction provided
overlooks the eye in clear weather from the summit of the volcano, a piece of Earth's surface of 5700
Square miles [115,000 square miles], so as much as one-fourth of the surface of Spain. Often The question
was raised whether one can see from this pyramid ungeheurn the African coast could. But the next
lines of this coast are 2 degrees 49 minutes in the bow, or 56 miles [252 km] away, because
now the face of the horizon radius of Pics 1 degree is 47 minutes, Cap Bojador may be visible only
if you give him 200 toises above sea level. Wiire know no idea how high the Black Mountains at
Cape Bojador, as well as the south of the Pic Promontory, called by the sailors Peñon grade. Would
be the height of the volcano of Tenerife accessible, so there could be no doubt in certain wind
directions, the effects of unusual Refraction observed. Reading the reports of Spanish and Portuguese
writers about the existence of the fabulous island of San Borondon or Antilia, we see that
in these has excellent lines of moist west-south-west wind mirages result, (19), however, do not we believe
with Viera, "that by the play of the terrestrial refraction the islands the green foothills,
and even the Appalachian Mountains in America see the inhabitants of the Canaries be. can "

The cold that we felt on top of the pics was very important for the season. The centigrade thermometer
(20) was removed from the bottom of the fumaroles and the hot Emit fumes in the shadow of 2 °,
7 The west wind was so contrary to that of a much of the year Tenerife
supplies the hot air through the burning deserts of Africa rises.

Since the temperature in the port of Orotava, according to Mr. Savagis observation, 22 °, 8,
was so the heat was at 94 toises height from one degree. This result agrees completely with in
line with what Lamanon and Saussure on the tips of pics and the Aetna, although in very different
seasons, have observed. [Lamanon observation ergiebt a degree in 99 fathoms, although the temperature
of Pics by 9 ° from the observed by us differed. Etna Saussure was the decrease of 91 toises.]
The slim shape of these mountains, offers the advantage that one can monitor the temperature
of two air layers nearly perpendicular to each other, and In this respect, the same observations
made in the ascent of the volcano Tenerife makes those who can do that with a driveway in
a balloon. However, it is be noted that the lake because of its transparency and because of evaporation
less heat sends the higher layers as the layers, so it is on the sea surrounding mountain peaks colder
in summer than in mountains located in the country, this factor has only slight influence to
the decrease in air heat because the temperature of the deep areas near the sea is also lower.

It
is different with the influence of wind direction and speed of the ascending Current, the latter
often increases the temperature of the highest mountains to a surprising degree. On the slope
of the Kingdom of Quito Antisana I saw in 2837 toises height of the thermometer 19 ° are; Labillardiere
observed at the crater rim of the Peak of Tenerife, 18 °, 7, where it all conceivable precaution
was used to exclude the influence of random factors. Since the temperature of the road of Santa
Cruz at the same time was 28 degrees, so the difference was between
the air at the coast and on the Pic 9 °, 3 instead of 20 degrees,
a heat loss of a level correspond to 94 toises.

 The islands and coasts, whose products
the sailors are supposed to meet, fall outside the scope of the state movements Europe. If longer
restrict the freedom war at sea, so shall the warring Powers against each other passports, and
the hatred between people and people to withdraw if it is different from the promotion of knowledge
is, that is the common cause of the people.

In contrast, when only a private citizen at his own expense a trip to the interior of a continent
undertakes that Europe has taken into his system of colonies. May well be the traveler a plan
design, as he him for his scientific purposes and for state Circumstances of individual countries to prepare
the most adequate seems he might obtain the means him away from the native country for years
to ensure the independence, but often resist even unforeseen obstacles to his plan when he said
just to be able to run it. Not easy but has a traveler had to fight with as many difficulties
as I before my departure for the Spanish America. I would like to be left over and would have
my travelogues with the ascent of the Peak of Tenerife started, if not the Failure of my first
plans on the direction of my journey to return from the Orinoco have expressed considerable
influence. I was therefore a cursory description of these processes, relevant to the science of
no concern, of which I must do, however, that they really be assessed. Now, once the curiosity of
the audience are often more in the person of the Travelers attached as to his works, and so
are the circumstances under which I mean first Travel plans designed, conceived quite been wrong.
(1)

lived from early youth to the ardent desire in me, distant, little visited by Europeans countries
to be allowed to travel. This urge is indicative of a time in life when this before us like a boundless
horizon, where nothing so much attracts us as a strong emotion Images and physical dangers. Raised
in a country which in no immediate Intercourse with the colonies in the Indies, is located in a far
later from the sea, live by strong mining famous mountains, I felt the urge to sea and wide
Trips are becoming more powerful in me. Things that we only from the vivid descriptions of
travelers know, have a special charm for us, all in remote Unclear Contoured captivates our
imagination; pleasures that we can not reach, seem us far more enticing than what has us in
the narrow circle of civic life. The joy of Botanisiren, the study of geology, a trip to Holland,
England and France in Company of a famous husband, Georg Forster, who had been lucky to Captain
Cook to accompany on his second trip around the world, contributed to the travel plans that I
only eighteen years, nurtured, to give shape and purpose. If I am still in the Life jackets,
drew beautiful countries of the hot, so it was no longer the desire for an exciting Wandering,
it was the drive, a wild, wonderful, rich in manifold nature products to see nature, to gather the views,
experiences, which promoted the sciences. My circumstances allowed me then not to implement ideas
that made me so vividly employed, and I had six years to me with the observations I made in
the New Imaginary world to make, prepare to travel to several countries in Europe and the chain
to investigate the high Alps, I compare the construction in the wake of the Andes of Quito and
Peru could. Since I worked at different times with different instruments of Construction,
I chose at the end of those that I as the most accurate and most durable while in transit appeared, I
took the opportunity to measurements taken prior to the most stringent methods were to be repeated,
and learned the limits of errors automatically know to which I must have been taken.

In 1795 I had traveled a part of Italy, but the volcanic lines in Naples and Sicily can not attend.
I would not like to leave Europe without Vesuvius, Stromboli Aetna
to have seen, I saw to many geological phenomena, especially in the
trap formation, properly understood, I had with the phenomena, as
yet active volcanoes they offer, have made known in detail.

I decided, therefore, in November 1797, to go back to Italy. I have long held in Vienna, where
the excellent Collections and the ease of Jacquin and Joseph van der Schott me in my preparation
Surveys showed exceptionally, and I ran through with Leopold von Buch, from ever since, an excellent
Work on Lapland was published, several parts of Salzburg and Styria, countries, have for the
geologists and landscape painter attractive about the same amount, but when I on Go the Tyrolean
Alps, I wanted to see me through the war broke out in Italy forced to abandon the plan the trip
to Naples.

Shortly before, a passionate lover of art, which is already the coasts of Illyria and Greece thumsforscher
as age had visited, I made the suggestion it out on a journey accompany Upper Egypt. The trip
was to last only eight months, skillful draftsman and astronomical tools should accompany us,
so we wanted to go up the Nile to Aswan and examine the area between
the cataracts and Tentyris part of the Saïd exactly.

I had so far with my plan never had a non-tropical country in the eye, but could I resist the temptation
to visit countries in the history of culture such a significant role. I accepted the proposal,
but on the express Condition that I kept on returning to Alexandria alone through Syria and
Palestine should travel. I immediately directed my studies after the new plan, which I later good
was when it acted like this, the raw monuments of the Mexicans that the peoples the Old World
compared. I had the near prospect of embarking for Egypt, because I forced the political conditions
that have occurred to give up a trip that I promised so much enjoyment. In the East, things
were such that even a single traveler had no chance there to make studies that even in the
most peaceful times are considered by the government with suspicious eyes.

At the same time France was in an expedition to the South Pacific under the command of Captain
Baudin in the works. The original plan was great, bold, and would have earned under careful
line to be executed. They wanted the Spanish possessions in South America visit from the mouth
of the Rio de la Plata to the kingdom of Quito and the isthmus of Panama. The two corvettes
should immediately go to the islands of the Pacific to Australia; the coasts of Van Diemen's
Land to investigate the same Nuytsland, create in Madagascar and
return via the Cape of Good Hope.

I had come to Paris when we do meet to prepare for this journey began. The character of Captain
Baudin was just not capable of I instill confidence, the man was my friend, the young botanist
van der Schott, brought to Brazil, and the Court of Vienna was there bad been happy with him,
and there But I never take with their own resources so long a journey and such a beautiful piece of
World could meet, so I decided to join the expedition for good luck. I received permission, with
my tools on one of the Corvettes that after the South Sea should go, embark, and only made it
a condition that I am by Captain Baudin should separate where and when I pleased. Michaux, who
already Persia and part of North America had visited and Bonpland, which I followed, and since
my most intimate remained friends, should join the journey as a naturalist.

I had a few months looking forward to such a great and honorable enterprise to be allowed to take
part, since the war broke out in Germany and Italy of new, so that the French government the funds
they need to discover the retreat, and the same postponed indefinitely. With grief I saw all my
hopes destroyed, The Notebook was the plan which I designed several years of life, put an end;
I decided just as soon as possible as it may be, to get away from Europe, something to do that
could distract my displeasure.

I was with a Swedish consul Skiöldebrand, aware of the dey of Algiers Gifts on the part of his court
and had to get through Paris was to embark at Marseilles. This achtenswerthe husband had been
long made on the African coast, and there he had written to me in the Algerian government, he could
affect me that I was allowed to travel to that part of the Atlas chain, to which the major studies
Desfontaines did not cover. He sent every year a vehicle to Tunis, where the pilgrims went to
Mecca, and he promised me to carry on this way to Egypt. I I thought for a moment, to use such
a good opportunity, and I said now the plan that I designed before
my trip to France, to run immediately.

Up now had no mineralogist investigated the high mountain range in Morocco to the border of eternal
snow rises. I could count on that after I lines in the Alps Barbary done a lot to science, in Egypt at
the great scholars, were met for several months to the Institute of Cairo, the same concession
found that I was in Paris so richly become part. I quickly added my collection of instruments
and gave me the works on the contributing countries to clean up. I took leave from my brother, who
had by counsel and example of my mind help determine the direction. It approved the motives
of my decision to leave Europe, a secret voice said us that we would meet again. This hope has
not deceived us, and she soothed the pain of a long separation. I left Paris with the decision
to me to Algiers, Egypt embark, and how even now ruled by chance in all human life, I saw when
returning from the Amazon and from Peru to my brother again, without the mainland of have entered
Africa.

The Swedish frigate, which should Skiöldebrand transfer to Algiers to Marseille expected in the
last days of October. Bonpland and I went at this time then, and hastened the more so since we
bought during the trip more to come too late and the ship Unmissable. We had no idea what new calamities
were before us first.

Skiöldebrand was as impatient as we reach to its destination. We climbed several times on the
day the mountain Notre Dame de la Garde, from which one can look far beyond into the Mediterranean.
Each Sail was visible on the horizon, sat us in excitement, but after two months in big trouble
in vain waited, we learned from the newspapers that the Swedish frigate which was to transform
us into a storm off the coast of Portugal suffered heavily and in
the port of Cadiz had to enter in order to be repaired.

Private letters confirmed the message, and it was certain that the Jaramas - that was the frigate
- before spring could not come to Marseille.

We could not win over us until then to stay in Provence.

The country, especially the climate, we found wonderful, but the sight of the sea reminded us constantly
of our shattered hopes. On a trip to Hyeres and Toulon, we found in the latter Port the frigate
Boudeuse that Bougainville had been in command on his journey around the world. I was in Paris
when I was preparing to join Expedititon of captain Baudin, to enjoy the special favor from the famous
navigator had. Could only with difficulty I to describe what I felt at the sight of the ship
to the islands of Commerson South Seas brought. There are scenes in which a feeling of pain in
all our feelings mixed.

We were still holding firmly to the idea of ​​us going to the African coast, and this tough decision
we had almost been fatal. In the port of Marseille was a time for Ragusa small car, ready to
go to Tunis under sail. This seemed a opportunity, so we came this way in the vicinity of
Egypt and Syria. We have been agreed with the captain for the voyage price, the next day we
should Sailing to go, but delayed the departure Fortunately, by a very insignificant in itself
Circumstance. The cattle that we should serve as provisions on the voyage, was in large Cabin
housed. We demanded that for the convenience of passengers and the safe Lodging will be provided
the essentials of our instruments around. Allermittelst was learned in Marseille, that the Tunisian
government to follow in Barbary established French and that all would
be thrown out of French ports, the people arriving in prison.

By this customer, we escaped a great danger, we had to postpone the execution of our plans and
decided to spend the winter in Spain, in the hope of us next spring, if indeed the political
conditions in the East, it allowed, or embark in Cartagena in Cadiz to.

We traveled through Catalonia and the Kingdom of Valencia to Madrid. We visited on the The ways
of the old ruins of Tarragona and Sagunto, made a trip from Barcelona to Montserrat, whose towering peaks
are inhabited by hermits, and the Contraste of strong vegetation and bare, barren rocks of
a peculiar Landscape features. I found an opportunity by astronomical calculation, the position
of several to determine the geography of Spain important points, I measured using the barometer
that Height of the Central Plateau and presented some observations on the inclination of the magnetic
needle and the intensity of the magnetic force on. The results of these observations is the are
published, and I am not spreading further on the nature of a natural Country where I was staying only
six months, and in recent times by so many taught men has been driven through.

On reaching Madrid, I soon found the cause, I wish luck to the fact
that we decided to the peninsula to visit.

The Baron Forell, Saxon ambassador at the Spanish court, came me in a way contrary to my purpose
has been very beneficial. He connected with wide mineralogical knowledge of the liveliest interest
for activities to promote science. He meant that I, under the administration of an enlightened
minister of Don Mariano Luis de Urquijo, view, had at my expense in the interior of Spanish
America to be allowed to travel. After all the tribulations that I experienced, I remembered
not Moment to take this idea.

In March 1799 I was presented to the court of Aranjuez. The king took me very kindly on. I
developed the reasons which induced me, a trip to the new continent, and to to take the Philippines,
and handed the secretary of state on a related memorandum one.
 A simple monument
in the midst of a little park marks his grave. At eleven clock he closed the inkwell, admitted here too neatly together and
away still.

Quandt was gone because of a teachers' meeting over lunch from home. Caspar sat with the woman
alone at the table. She talked constantly about the weather. "The storm has the vent on our roof
knocked down, "she said," and the tailor next door through the desert
is falling Brick was nearly beaten to death.

"

Caspar gazed out in silence: he could hardly see the opposite building,
rain and snow, mixed whirled through the darkened streets.

Caspar only ate the soup, came as the meat, he got up and went to
his room.

Point three clock he came down again, only with his old brown coat and wearing no coat.

"Where you going, home?" The teacher called him from the kitchen.

"I must get something in the Commissioner-General," he said quietly.

"No coat? In the cold? "The woman asked in surprise and stood on the threshold.

He looked down at himself distracted, then he said: "Goodbye, teacher wife went," and.

Before he closed the door, he threw a parting glance in the hall, the curly Railing of the
stairs, the old brown cabinet with brass buckles, between the kitchen and living room door, stood
on the dust-bin in the corner, with the potato skins, cheese rinds, Bone, wood shavings and broken
glass was filled, and the cat who always secretly genäschig and crept around here. Despite the
lightning-fast way seemed contemplation of these things It Caspar, as if he had never seen it
more clearly, and never so strange.

When the latch was snapped, had the almost unbearable pressure which tied his chest, a little,
and his lips twisted into shells into a smile.

The teacher shall I write, he thought, or no, it is better to come myself, and if the winter is
over, I shall come and take the car out of the house, I'll set it up, that it will be afternoon,
as he is at home.

When he steps outside the gate, 'I will not him shake hands, I want to ask me as though I were
someone else, in my nice clothes he will not recognize me, yes. He will make a low bow: graciously
"Will your worship ? Occur, "he will say. If we are in the room, vice 'I before him, and ask:
? "You recognize me now" He will fall to his knees, but I give him my hand and say: "You see
now that you have done me wrong?" He will see it. "Oh," I say, "You show me your children and
send you to the police lieutenant." The children I will not 'bring me presents, and then comes
when the police lieutenant, to the expectant' To talk to, I'll just
look, just look at ...

From Gumbertuskirche struck half past three.

It was still too early. On the lower market Caspar went all around the houses. Before the rectory,
he stopped for a while musing. As a result of its internal heat, he hardly felt the cold. He saw
only a few people who, as the Wind whipped quickly vorüberhuschten.

As he turned from the right against the Hofapotheke Schloßdurchlaß, it struck three quarters. As
someone shouted, and he looked up, the stranger was standing by his side yesterday. He wore
a coat with several collars and more still a fur collar. He bowed and said a few polite words.
Caspar did not understand him, because the wind was just so violent that would have have to shout
to hear each other. Therefore, the stranger was just a gesture by the he asked Caspar to be
allowed to go with him. Apparently he had been on the same plane, the visit the place of rendezvous.

Until
the courtyard there were only a few steps. The stranger opened the door and let Caspar precedence.
Caspar went ahead as if it must be so. A mixture of simple-minded Devotion and a quiet pride was evident
in his face, with a strange rapidity Expression of horror to make way for the moment was too
strong, he could force his not endure. In the period that he needed to recover from over the wicket
dichtbeschneiten Orangerie place to go to the trees of the first
avenue, he experienced within himself a Range of completely unrelated
scenes from the distant past, a phenomenon of Soul researchers can
be attributed to the same root such as the fact that a one glide Falling
tower during the time of the overthrow his whole life to be seen.

He saw, for example, the blackbird, which lay with outstretched wings on the table, then he saw
with extraordinary clarity the water container, from which he drank in his dungeon, and then he saw
a beautiful gold chain, which showed him the Lord of the treasure,
which the pleasant Sensation was connected to it aroused Stanhope
white, delicate hand, he also found himself in Hall of Nuremberg Castle,
where Daumer him out, and his eyes stayed on the soft line a Gothic
arch window with a delight that he had not then surely felt.

They came to the crossroads, as the stranger rushed forward with outstretched
arm, and gave some sign.

Caspar saw behind the bushes, two other people, their faces drawn up by the Coat collars were
covered completely.

Who wrote this? "He hesitated and asked are, because he believed this
was the appointed place.

With his eyes, he searched the car.

The snow did not allow more than ten to see Ellen.

"Where's the car?" He asked.

Since the stranger did not answer to both questions, he looked helpless against the two behind
the bushes. This is approaching, or seemed to, anyway.

They called the pock-something, first one and then the other. Then they removed again and
then stood on the other side of the road.

The stranger turned around, reached into the pocket of his jacket, brought a purple purse to light
and said in a hoarse voice: "Open it and you will find in it the
sign, which gave us your mother.

"

Caspar accepted the purse. While he tried to entknüpfen the string by it was tied up, lifted the stranger
a long, glittering object in his hand and jumped with his arm against Caspar's chest.

What is it? Caspar'm shocked. He felt something icy slither deep into his flesh. Oh God, it stings
so, he thought, and stumbled here. He dropped the bag.

O monstrous, monstrous horrors!

He grabbed one of the Baumstämmchen and tried to To shout but could not. Suddenly he broke into
the knee. Before his eyes was black. He wanted to ask the stranger that he would help him, but
the man's feet, which he still a Second before seen, were gone. The blackness in front of more
again, he found himself to no one was there anymore, nor the two were behind the bushes gone.

He crawled on all fours on a little scrub down and lowered her head down to to protect his face
from the wet snow dust that sprayed the wind against him. He made a few movements with the body,
as if looking for a cavity in the earth to slip, could then no further,
and remained seated.

It seemed as if something Riesle inside his body. It froze him now pathetic.

Want to see 'what's in the bag, he thought, while his teeth chattered.

O monstrous Terror that held him to look after that place where the stranger stood.

If I only knew one word in which I would readily, he thought, as one who by to protect spells imagines.
And he said twice: "Dukatus.

What a miracle, suddenly it was easy. He thought to get up and go home to. He got up. He saw
that he could walk. After he made some staggering steps, caught it to run. He was as if his body
is not heavy, he felt as if he could fly.

He ran ran, ran. passing through the market at the church, up to the gate of the garden, the palace
square; to Kronacher Buck up in the hallway of the house Quandt, ran, ran, ran.

Bathed in sweat, he collapsed in the hallway.

Then I went no more, he leaned panting on the wall. The maid saw him first. appalled by his appearance,
she gave a piercing Cry from him.

As Quandt came out of the room, his wife followed him.

Caspar stared at them, but said nothing, but merely pointed to his
chest.

"What happened?" Quandt said rough and short.

"Hofgarten - engraved," stammered Caspar.

And Quandt? We see him smile. Nothing else: we see him smile. And even centuries, solemnly done
in purple like the angels on our ewe lamb and implore us to the facts
not to distort, there is nothing else to say than that Quandt smiled,
smiled strangely.

"Where have you been stung, my dear? Asked," he drawled.

Caspar again pointed to his chest.

Quandt unbuttoned his coat, vest and shirt, to look at the wound. True, there was a Stich, no
bigger than a hazelnut. But not the slightest trace of blood was noted. A wound without blood, that
does not exist, it's like an assertion without proof.

"So stung," said Quandt.

"So let us turn immediately and show me the place in the courtyard garden, where this should be
happening, "he added forcefully. "What have you got to this hour and had to do in such weather
in the courtyard? March, please come! The thing must be informed immediately. "

Caspar did not argue. He dragged himself to the teacher's side back into the street. Quandt took him
like a cripple creeping Caspar there.

After a long silence, Quandt said in a grim tone: "This time you have your stupid trick made, Hauser.
This time it will not take as good as the output Professor Daumer,
I can give you in writing.

"

Caspar stopped, threw a quick glance toward heaven and said. "God - to know"

"Do not fool only," clamored Quandt, "I know what I know. If you are still rely so much on God,
that you have no luck with me, because you are a wicked man from scratch. I can only advise,
do not play longer the Muette de Portici and admit you prefer the same. Make a little worried you
would like us, the people you want to each other rush.

Razor? Who are you supposed to have engraved? Maybe you about your miserable to take some dough
from the bag? What nonsense! Do not go so slowly home, my Time is running out. "

"The bag - I want to get," Caspar stammered softly.

"What's that for a bag?"

The man - me. "

"What a man?"

"The stabbed me."

But Hauser, Hauser, it's outrageous! Do you imagine for one, that I to this Man believe in the
slightest? Just as in the buck. Educate yourself because one that I am the real culprit for a
moment in doubt? Confess as much!

Confess You think you have yourself a little stung. I will be silent about the matter again,
I will let mercy take the law. "

Caspar was crying.

Just in front of the courtyard, he suddenly collapsed. Quandt was confused. There were some
men of the way, this he asked that they want to lead the youth home,
he even wanted to Police.

The men had to wait until some time until Caspar had recovered a
little; even then it was difficult to persuade him to leave.

It was later described by doctors as an incomprehensibility that Caspar terrible with the Injury
in the chest had been able to route from the backyard garden for the teacher's house, and after
that from the teacher's house to Palace Square, and finally back down from the Castle Square home the first
time running, the second time in the arm Quandt, the third time taken
by the men half throughout the more than sixteen hundred yards.

As Quandt struck out for the town hall, it was dark.

The officiant on duty explained that without a special order of the mayor, who was in the bath, not
the display should be logged. The teacher talked for a while with
him, then he went angry and annoyed in one quarter to the city, the
small meal Czech spa industry, where the mayor was sitting in the
circle of his friends in beer. Quandt argued the case. Man marveled,
doubted, argued, ascended the red tape and allowed then the formal
Log recording. At six clock was the product of great acts in lanterns
and candlelight the Municipal Court for further examination passed.

Quandt
returned home. In the street outside his apartment he found many people,
and Although there were people in any state that the storm had come
in spite of and in a silence persisted, which made the teacher suspicious.
He immediately went into the room, Caspar, had been put to bed. The
doctor Horlacher was present. He had the wound been investigated.

"What's
the score?" Said Quandt.

The doctor replied that it was not a cause
for serious concern exists.

"The thought 'I," said Quandt.

Now appeared
Councilor Hofmann. A police soldier had him down the purple bag pass,
which was found at the crash site.

"Do you know this bag?" Said the
Councillor.

With feverish eyes Caspar looked at the bag, the opening
of the Councillor. It was a Note the fact that, so it seemed at first,
was covered with hieroglyphics.

The teacher, who stood by, shook
his head. She pulled her husband aside and said to him: "It is still
owned, as were the houses always puts together his letters, as the
paper folded in the bag was. "

Quandt nodded and took the side of
the Councillor, the only the note and looked searchingly then asked
for a hand mirror.

"It's probably mirror writing," Quandt said, smiling.

"Yes,"
said the Councilor, "a strange childish."

He presented letters and
mirror each other from opposite and read: "Caspar Hauser is you just
can tell what I look like and who I am. Savings to the house of the
trouble, for he could must be silent, but I want to say for itself,
where I come from. I come from the Bavarian Border river. I will even
tell you my name: MLO "

"That sounds almost mockingly," said the
Councilor for an astonished silence.

Quandt nodded bitterly to himself.

When
Caspar had heard the words read aloud, his head fell heavily into
the pillow and a boundless despair painted itself in his features.
It closed its mouth with a Expression, as if to say from now on no
more. And that he could talk, so this M. L. O. apparently had not
expected, he felt well into the fever as a kind of painful Triumph.

Quandt,
the slip of paper given him the Councillor, in his hands, walked out
excitedly and forth. "These are nice tricks," he exclaimed, "nice
tricks! Hold the pity The best of her century, Hauser. You deserve
a beating that you deserve. "

The Councilor frowned. 'Room, sir,
let it yet, "he said with unusual! serious tone.

[142-5] David Crockett is so interesting a character that a longer account of him is given
on page 29 of this volume. Latitudes, the ship was twenty-four hours sometimes 18 up to 26 miles
driven to east. Initially was the direction of the current South East ¼, but near the strait,
it was exactly East. Capitan Macintosh and one of the most educated Navigators of our time,
Sir Erasmus Gower, observed the changes which in this Movement of water at different times of
the year occur. It is not uncommon, that sailors visiting the Canary Islands, located off the
coast of Lancerota, while they thought land in Tenerife can be. Baugainville was on his passage
from Cape Finisterre to the Canaries in the face of the island of Ferro at 4 degrees further to the
east, as he led his bill.

Generally you explain the flow, located between the Azores Islands, the south coast of Portugal
and the Canaries makes noticeable, the fact that the water of the Atlantic by the Strait of Gibraltar
get a train to the east. De Fleurieu even claims in the Comments on the journey of Captain
Marchand, the fact that the Mediterranean Sea from evaporation lose more water than throw in the
rivers, bring a motion in the adjacent ocean forth, and the influence of the strait Sey six hundred
miles [2700 km] wide open sea to feel. With all the respect that I am a sailor guilty of the
very rightly estimated works I have to thank a lot, it must be-ing allowed me to this important
subject to look at from a far more general considerations.

If you look at the Atlantic or the deep valley, the western coasts of Europe and Africa and
the east coasts of the new continent, we observe in the movement the water opposite directions.
Between the tropics, especially between Senegal at the African coast and the sea of ​​the
Antilles is, the general, the seafarers the longest known flow continuously from morning to evening.
The same is the name * * Denotes Aequinoctialstrom. The average speed of the same under different
Latitudes in the Atlantic Ocean and the South Pacific roughly the same. They can be on 90-10
miles [40-45 km] in 24 hours, so at 0.59 to 0.65 feet [0.18 to 0.21 m] estimate in a second
(2). The speed with which the water in these regions after West flow is about one-fourth of
that of most major European rivers. This the rotation of the globe opposite movement of the
ocean is probably related to that phenomenon together only in so far as the rotation of the
earth, the polar winds, which lower the Layers of air, the cold air from high latitudes to the equator out,
converted into trade winds be. The Aequinoctialstrom is the result of the general movement, in
which the sea surface offset by the trade winds will, and local variations in the state of the air be
without noticeable influence on the strength and speed of the flow.

In the Canal, the Atlantic Ocean between Guyana and Guinea from 20
to 23 Length degree 8. or 9 to 2 or 3 dug degrees north latitude is
where the trade winds often be interrupted by winds from south ode
South-South-West, the direction of Aequinoctialstroms less constant.

The African coast to the ships driven off to the southeast, during Allerheiligenbai and the promontory
of St. Augustine, where the vessels after the mouth of the La Plata control, do not like to
get close to the general train of water through a particular flow is masked. The latter flow is from
the Cape St. Roch to the island of Trinidad palpable, it is directed against northwest at
a speed of between one and a half Feet per second.

The Aequinoctialstrom, albeit weak, even beyond the Tropic of Cancer in 26 and 28 degrees of latitude
felt. In the vast basin of the Atlantic, seven to eight hundred Miles from the African coast,
are gaining the course of European ships, which go to the West Indies
before they enter the hot zone.

Further to the north, under 28 to 35 Degrees, between the parallels of Tenerife, Ceuta, below 46
to 48 degrees of Length, we noticed no constant motion, for a 140-mile-wide zone separating the Aequinoktialstrom,
who goes to West, from the great mass of water that flows to the east and by striking high temperature
prevail. This water mass, known as the Gulf Stream * * (Gulf Stream), the physicist since 1776
carefully Franklin and Sir Charles Blagden beautiful observations become. As anxious in recent
days, American and English sailors are safe, the determine the direction of the same, so we must go back a
further general point to ienen recovered for the phenomenon.

The Aequinoctialstrom drives the waters of the Atlantic Ocean to the shores of the Mosquito Indians and
Honduras. The stretched from south to north in this new continent maintains current like a
dam. The water will first go towards the northwest, through the Straits Catoche between Cap and Cap.
St. Anthony in the Gulf of Mexico, and follow the curves the Mexican
coast from Veracruz to the mouth of the Rio del Norte, and from there
mouth denUntiefen west of the Mississippi and from the eastern tip
of Florida.

After this huge Turn to the West, North, East and South takes the flow back towards the north, and
urges with violence in the channel of Bahama. There I had in May 1804, at 26 and 27 degrees width,
a speed of 80 miles in 24 hours, so by 5 feet in a second observed, although just blew a very
strong northerly wind. At the exit of the channel of Bahama, under the parallel of Cape Canaveral,
the transport of the Gulf Stream or current from Florida to northeast. He is like a rushing
river here and sometimes reaches the speed of five miles hour. The tax man, once he reaches
the edge of the flow, with tolerable Safely assumed what he erred in his estimation, and how far
he still in New York, Philadelphia and Charles Town has, and the high temperature of the water,
his high salinity, the indigo blue color, and floating masses of seaweed, finally, the very
noticeable in winter Increase in air temperature can provide to identify the Gulf Stream. To the
north, takes its speed , whereas its width increases and the waters are cool. Between Cayo and Biscaino
Bank of the Bahamas is only 15 miles, parallel with less than 28 ½ degrees latitude already 17,
and the Charles Town, Cape Henlopen over, 40 to 50 miles wide. Where the flow at the narrowest
, it reaches a speed of 3 to 4 miles per hour, further north amounts to the same, only a mile. The
waters of the Mexican Gulf to keep on their mighty course to the northeast for their high temperature
so that I am under 40 and 41 degrees of latitude with 22 ° 5 (18 ° Reaumur), while outside
of the current water on the surface barely 17 ° 5 (14 ° R.) was warm. In showing the breadth of New York
and Oporto Thus the Gulf Stream the same temperature as the tropical oceans below 18 degrees
latitude, so The width of Porto Rico and the islands of the green foothills.

From the port of Boston, and under the meridian of Halifax, under 14 ° 25 'of latitude and 67
° the length is reached, the current to 80 nautical miles wide. Here he turns at once to East,
so that its western edge of the bend at the northern boundary of the moving water and he is
wegstreicht at the top of the great Bank of Newfoundland, the ingenious Bolney the bar at the mouth
of this stream is called ungeheurn sea. Most striking is the distance between the temperature
of cold water on this bank and the warmth of the waters of the hot zone, which are driven by
the Gulf Stream to the north, that was after my Observation 8 ° 7
- 10 (7 - 8 ° R.), these 21 - 22 ° 5 (17 - 18 ° F.).

In these lines the Heat in the oceans most strangely divided the waters of the Bank are colder
than at 9 ° 4 adjacent sea, and this is colder than 3 ° of the current. These zones can their
temperatures not offset, because each has its own heat source or heat due to the decrease has,
and continue to have both elements resistant (3).

By the Bank of Newfoundland, or the 52nd Degree of latitude remains up to the Azores, the Gulf
Stream to east or east-south-east directed. Still does not scroll down the waters of the shock,
they thousand miles from there in the sea end of Florida, between the island of Cuba and the
Shoals of the Turtle Islands, have received. This distance is twice the Length of the barrel
of the Amazon or the passport of Jaen Manseriche of the Gran-Para. In Meridian Corvo and Flores islands,
the westernmost of the Azores, takes the flow a sea route of 160 miles in width. When the ships
on the way back from go to South America to Europe, these two islands
in order to correct their length so perceive they always clear the
train of water to the southeast.

Umter 33 degrees of latitude puts the tropical Aequinoctialstrom the Gulf Stream is very close. In
the bars of the world ocean can be at one Days from the waters that run to West get into those
to the southeast or East-southeast flow.

From the Azores to take the power of its direction against the Florida Strait of Gibraltar,
the island of Madeira and the Canaries of the group. The gate at the Pillars of Hercules accelerated
without doubt the train of water to the east. And in this sense, one may rightly claim the
straits, which are connected by the Mediterranean Sea and Atlantic Ocean, outside their influence
very distant, very likely would, however, even if the strait did not exist, Vessels sailing to Tenerife,
yet driven to the southeast, and that as a result of Contention, the source you have to look
at the coasts of the New World. In the vast ocean basins all movements away, just as in the
sea of ​​air plants.

If we follow the trends reverse to its distant sources, there is one account of the change in
speed, why it decreases quickly, as between the Canal of Bahama and the Bank of Newfoundland, now
growing again, as in the vicinity of the Straits of Gibraltar and the Canary Islands, can not
be-ing about it in doubt that the same cause, which the waters in the Gulf Mexico turns around, it
also sets in motion the island of Madeira.

South of the latter island, the flow can be in its direction to south-east and south-south-east track
towards the coast of Africa between Cape Cantin and Cape Bojador. In these lines If a ship in calm
weather looks close to the coast, if not corrected after the Estimate believes still far away.
If the opening at Gibraltar the cause of motion of the water, then why has the flow south of
the strait is not the opposite Direction? On the contrary, but it is going down the 25th and
26 Degree of latitude after South and then southwest. Cap Blanc to Cap Verd the most is also executing
Promontory seems to influence to express it in that direction, and
add to the width of the same the water, their movement, we followed
the coast of Honduras, the African have to start with the great tropical
current to the drive from east to west again.

We have already noticed that several hundred kilometers west of the Canaries of the peculiar Aequinoktialgewässer
the train already in the temperate zone, from 28 and 29 Latitude, it is noticeable, but in the
meridian of the island of Ferro, they are ships south to the Tropic of cancer before they are estimates
east of its true length.

But as the northern limit of the tropical trade winds and the flow with the seasons shifts,
so is the Gulf Stream on the position and direction as the variable. These fluctuations are
particularly striking, 28 Latitude to the large volume of Newfoundland, equally between the 48th
Degrees west of Paris and the meridian of the Azores. The changing Winds in the temperate zone
and the melting of ice at the North Pole where in July and August, a significant mass flows of fresh
water to the south, appear as the principal Causes change of what is in these high latitudes strength
and direction of the golf toms.

We have seen that between 11 and 43 Degree of latitude waters of the
Atlantic Oceans means of currents around out continuously in a circle.

Suppose a water particles return to the same spot from which it assumed, it can be, after what we
yet know the speed of the currents calculated that it's 3800 miles long circulation took two
years and ten months. A vehicle, in which the effect of the wind came refrained, in thirteen months from
the Canary Islands to the coast of Caracas. It took ten months to come to the Gulf of Mexico and around
to the Shoals of the Turtle Islands to get across from the Port of Havana, but only forty to fifty
days from receipt of the Straits of Florida to Newfoundland. The speed the declining flow of the bench
to the coast of Africa is difficult to estimate; take it in the middle
of 7 or 8 miles in twenty-four hours shall arise in respect this last
stretch ten to eleven months.

Such are the effects of the slow but steady Train that runs around the waters of the ocean. The
water of the Amazon and used by Tomependa to the Gran Para-about forty-five days.

Shortly before my arrival in Tenerife had the sea on the road of Santa Cruz a tribe of Cedrela odorata,
or with the bark, ejected. This tree grows only American in the tropics or in the first neighboring
countries. He was without doubt on the coast Terra Firma or Honduras were demolished. The quality
of the wood and the lichens on the cortex was evident that the stem not from one of the submarine
Stemmed forests, which embedded with old Erdumwälzungen Flötzgebilde in the northern countries
have been. If the Cedrelastamm, instead of being thrown from Tenerife to the land, further
passes to the south, he would probably run around the entire Atlantic Ocean and have been using
the general tropical stream gets into his native country. This Conjecture is supported by an
earlier case, the general Abbé Viera in his History of the Canaries mentioned. In 1770, a vehicle laden
with grain, the should go from the island Lancerota to Santa Cruz on Tenerife, driven on the high
seas, when nobody was on the team on board.

The train of waters from east to west led it to America, where it was stranded off the coast
of Guyana in Caracas.

At a time when the maritime art was less developed, provided the spirit of the Gulf Stream Christopher
Columbus is a sure sign of the existence of westward situated countries. Two bodies, belonging
to their physicality an unknown tribal people were at the end 15th Century in the Azores islands to
land thrown. About the same time Columbus was brother Peter Borrea, governor of Porto Santo,
on the shore of this island powerful pieces of bamboo that had been washed ashore by the currents
and the west winds. These bodies, and these pipes made the Genoese sailor attention, and he guessed
that both had to originate from a nearby mainland to the west. We now know that in the hot zone,
the tropical trade winds and the power at any wave motion in the direction the rotation of the
earth resist. Products of the new world in the ancient world only arrive at high latitudes and
in the direction of the flow of Florida. Often fruits different trees of the West Indies on the
shores of the islands Ferro and Gomera driven.

Before the discovery of America believed the Canaries, these fruits come from the charmed Island
of St. Borondon that after the sailor tales and legends westward in a certain strokes should be of
the ocean, constantly shrouded in mist the sey.

This survey of the currents in the Atlantic ocean, I wanted darthun mainly that the train of
the waters from southeast of Cape St. Vincent to the Canary Islands, a Effect of general movement,
in which the surface of the ocean on its western end is. We therefore only briefly mention the
arm of the Gulf Stream, the 45th under the and 50 Degree width, at the Bank Bonnet Flamand, from
southwest to northeast towards the coast of Europe directed. This part of the current is very
rapid, when the wind from West Long has blown. Equal to that of the past sweeps of Ferro and
Gomera, he throws every year to the West coast of Ireland and Norway, fruit trees, which the
torrid zone of America are peculiar. On the shores of the Hebrides there are seeds of Mimosa
scandens, Dolichos urens, Guilandina bonduc, and various other plants of Jamaica, Cuba and
the adjacent Mainland. The flow drives often well preserved in barrels of French wine, of ships
in the sea of ​​the Antilles shipwreck suffered.

Besides these examples of the large migrations of plants are different, which employ the imagination.
The Tilbury wreckage of the English ship that was burned in Jamaica, were on the Scottish
Coast found. In the same lines sometimes occur several species of turtles, which inhabit the sea
of ​​the Antilles. If the west wind long pause, the result in the high latitudes, a flow, from
the coasts of Greenland and Labrador to the north of directed Scotland to just east-south-east
is. As Wallace reported came, twice, in the years 1682 and 1864, American savage of the tribe
of Eskimos, a storm in their Canoes made of fur on the high seas devious means of the flow to
the orcad Islands. This last case deserves the more attention, as will be seen from the way
to a Time when the shipping was still in its infancy, the movement of the waters of the ocean
a Agents are able to spread the various tribes of men on earth.

The little that we as yet about the true location and the width of the Gulf Stream, so as to know
the continuation of the same against the coasts of Europe and Africa, is the fruit of some random
observation taught men that over in different directions the Atlantic Ocean are down. Since the currents
Kenntiß to shorten the voyages can contribute significantly, it would be of such great concern
for the practical seamanship, as scientific interest when vessels with excellent chronometers
Gulf of Mexico and northern Ocean between 30 and 54
 At the outbreak of the volcano Temanfaya rose from the seabed two pyramidal Stony hill
of lava and gradually merged with the island Lanzerota.

With the weak wind and the flow we get out of the Canal of Alegranza not allowed, it was decided
during the night between the island and the Clara Roca del Oeste to cross. This, would almost
have had very bad consequences for us. It is dangerous with no wind near this reef stop against
which extends the current exceptionally strong. To Midnight we began the effect of the trends and
movements. The vertically near us out of the water rising rocks we behaved the few wind that blew,
and the Corvette answered the helm almost no more and every moment feared stranded. It is difficult
to understand how a single basalt hill in the middle of vast oceans, the water in such Excitement
can move. These phenomena, which the full attention of physicists earn, by the way the sailors
are well known: these occur in the South Pacific, including in the small archipelago of the
Galapagos Islands, in a terrible scale. The temperature difference between the liquid and the rock
mass is able to train the flow towards them not to To explain and how should they find it credible
that the water at the foot of the cliffs in plunges, and that in this ongoing train down the
water particles the resulting looking to fill empty space (7)?

On 18 In the morning the wind was a little fresher, and so we managed to get out of the Canal.
We came very close to the Infierno again, and now we noticed large gaps in the rock, probably escaped
through which the gases when the basalt cap was lifted. We lost the small islands Alegranza,
Montaña Clara and Graciosa in the face. They seem ing never to have been inhabited by Guanche and
they now attended only to Orseille there to collect, this plant is actually less sought for
so many other lichen species from northern Europe provide valuable dyes. Montaña Clara is famous
the beautiful Weger Canarienvögel that occur there. The singing of these birds changes after swarms,
as indeed also with us the song of the finches in two adjacent regions is often another. At
Montaña Clara, there are also goats, to prove that the island in the interior is not as bleak
than the coast that we saw. The name comes from Alegranza "La Joyeuse," as the first Conqueror
of the Canaries, two Norman barons, and Jean de Béthencourt Gadifer de Salle, the island named.
It was the first point where they landed. After a stay of some Days on the island of Graciosa,
which we saw a little bit, they decided to to seize the neighboring island Lanzerota, and were
Guadarfia, chief of the Guanche received so hospitable, as Cortez in Montezuma's palace. The
Shepherd King, no other resources than his goats had been so shamefully betrayed, as the Mexican
Sultan.

We went there on the coasts of Lanzerota, Lobos and Fort Aventura.

The second appears earlier with the other interrelated zuhaben. This geological hypothesis was
already in the seventeenth Century by a Franciscan, Juan Galindo placed. He was even considered
King Juba have mentioned only six Canary Islands, because at that time three of them only one
formed. Without going into this unlikely hypothesis, have learned geographers the archipelago
of the Canaries in the islands Innonia, the islands Rivaria, Ombrios, Canaria and Capraria
said the old woman.

As the horizon was hazy, we could all over the passage of Lanzerota to Tenerife the summit of Peak
de Teyde not be in sight. The volcano is really 1905 toises [3712 m], such as trigonometric Bordas
indicating last measurement, the summit must be to 43 nautical miles [80 km] to see one, that is
the eye believed to sea level and the refraction equal to 0.079 the distance. It has been
called into question whether the Pic Lanzerota between Aventura and Fort, to the Varela Map
2 ° 29 'or about 50 miles (leagues) is from being seen been sey. The point seems, however,
by some officers of the Royal Spanish Navy Being chosen to have, I have on board a ship Corvette
Pizarro diary in your hands had stood in the one pic of Tenerife Sey in 135 nautical miles [250
km] away at the southern Promontory of Lanzerota called Pichiguera seen, been, and indeed appeared
to peak at such a large angle that the observer, Don Manuel Bazuti believes that the volcano would
have 9 miles away can still be seen. That was in September, towards evening, with very wet Weather.
If you add 15 feet of an increase in the eye of the lake, I think that in order to to explain phenomenon
that has to take a refraction equal to 0.158 of the bow, what the temperate zone is not very
much. vary according to the observations of General Roy England in the refraction between 1
/ 20 and 1 / 3, and if it is true that they on the coast reach the outer limits of Africa, which
I doubt very much it could, under certain Also from the deck of a ship the Pic to be seen to
61 nautical miles.

Seafarers incursions, these lines and think about the causes of natural phenomena, wonder that the Pic
de Teyde and the Azores (8), sometimes in very great distance come to light, other times a
much closer range are not visible, although the Sky is clear and the horizon is not hazy.
These circumstances warrant attention the physicist more so than many vehicles on the way back to Europe
impatience of the Await publication of these mountains in order to correct their length after
that, and they are off again away believe it when they are in truth, if they do in clear weather
at distances where the angle of vision must have been very significant, can not see. The state
of the atmosphere has the greatest influence on the visibility of distant objects. In general, can
to assume that the peak of Tenerife in July and August, in very warm, dry weather; is seen
quite often very far, however, that he was in January and February, with light overcast Sky and
immediately after or several hours before a heavy rain in very great distance to face is. The transparency
of the air seems, as noted above, be increased to a surprising measure of when a certain amount
of water uniformly in the same widespread. Moreover, one must not be surprised if the Pic de Teyde
very rare well see, but the peaks of the Andes, which I have such a long time to observe. The Pic
is not as high as that part of the Atlas, on whose slopes the city of Marocco, and not like
this covered with eternal snow. The Piton * * or * Sugar *, the highest peak Pics of the forms,
throws back, however much light because the ejected from the crater Pumice is whitish in color,
but this small truncated cone measuring only a twentieth part the whole amount. The walls
of the volcano are available with black lava blocks slagged or covered with a vigorous plant
growth, the mass of the less light reflects back, as the tree leaves are separated by shadows, which
have a larger scope than the illuminated parts.

It shows that the Peak of Tenerife * apart from * Piton, one of the mountains, you how Bouguer
expressed on long distance * only * looks negative because the Light
field, moving from the outer limits of the atmosphere to us, and we
their existence are only aware of because the light in the surrounding
air and that the particles of air propagate between the mountains
and the eye of the observer, of varying intensity are.

[From the experiments of the same observer it appears that when this Unterschi8ed for our
bodies are noticeably, and the mountain should stand out clearly from the sky, a light must
at least be-ing more than one-sixtieth part of the other.] If one removes from the Island of Tenerife,
there remains the Piton or Sugarloaf fairly long * positive * visible, because He reflektirt white
light from heaven and hell apart, but since this cone is only 80 toises [156 m] high and the
Spizte 40 fathoms [78 m] wide, one has recently been the question raised as to whether he can
be with such insignificant mass more than 40 miles visible and whether or not it is likely that
in the lake Pic only as a cloud of the horizon will be aware of when starting up already reset
the base of the Piton. Taking the average width of the Sugar Loaf to 100 fathoms [200 m], which
we find that the small Cone in 40 miles away in the horizontal direction or at an angle of more
than 3 minutes appears. This angle is large enough to make an object visible and if the Piton
would be considerably higher than broad at the base, the angle is expected in Being even smaller
horizontal direction, and the subject was still an impression our bodies; from micrometric observations
indicate that a minute only then the limit of visibility is, if the objects in all directions
of the same diameter are can be seen in a vast plain single tree trunks with the naked eye,
although the visual angle only 25 seconds is.

Since the visibility of an object that stands out dark in color, depending on the amount of
light the two lines reach the eye, one of which ends at the mountain, while the other is to
Limit of the sea air runs away, it follows that the further one of the subject wegrückt, the
smaller the difference is between light of the surrounding air and the light of prior the mountain air
inside layers. Hence it is that is not very high mountain peaks, if they to show themselves above the
horizon start at first appear as dark peaks to be provides a very
large distance.

Likewise is the visibility of mountains that can only negatively becomes aware, not only on the condition
of the lower atmospheric layers from which our meteorological Observations are limited, but
also on the transparency and the physical nature the higher regions, because the image stands
out better, the stronger the light in the Air that comes from the limits of the atmosphere,
initially, or the less loss it has suffered during his run. This circumstance makes it understandable
to a certain extent, why close to the same blue, with all the same thermometer and hygrometer
to the earth's surface, the Pic on ships, which are the same far from the visible einemal at another
is not. Probably you would not even be able to see the volcano frequently if the amount of ash cone
at its tip is the crater opening, one-fourth would be all over the mountain height, it had the Vesuvius
is the case. The ashes, grated to powder Pumice stone throwing, the light does not return
as strong as the snow of the Andes. It makes that the Mountain at very large distance is not
bright, but much weaker dark colors stand out. You thus contributing to say to the portion of the spread
in the air light, their changing Differences make a subject more or less visible in balance.
Kahle Limestone, granite sand covered mountain peaks, the high plains of the Cordilleras, [Los Pajonales,
by paja grass. Is the name of the zone of grass-like plants which in the region of eternal Snow
is.] Which are golden yellow occurred, however, more apparent in a short distance as objects that
can be seen negatively, but according to the theory, there is a certain limit, beyond which
the latter stand out from some blue sky.

In the colossal mountains of Quito and Peru, which exceed the limit of perpetual snow, work together
all the favorable circumstances in order to make them visible under very small angles. We have
already seen that the truncated summit of the Peak of Tenerife only about 300 toises added [580 m] in
diameter. According to the measurements that I made in 1803 to Riobamba, is the peak of the Chimborazo
153 fathoms [298 m] below the top, so at one point, the 1300 toises [2533 m] is higher than the
peak, there are 673 toises (1312 meters) wide. Also takes the zone of perpetual snow one-fourth
of the whole mountain height, and the base of this zone is seen from
the South Pacific, 3437 fathoms (6700 meters) wide.

But though to the Chimborazo two-thirds higher than the Pic, you can see him but because of the curvature
of the earth, only 38 1 / 3 Miles farther. When, in the port of Guayaquil at the end of the rainy
season appears on the horizon, lectual snow so strongly believe that one should, he would very
much visible in the South Seas . Being Credible Schiffer have underinsured me, they have him
on the cliff Muerto, southwest seen from the island of Puna, to 47 miles [211.5 km]. Whenever
he was seen further, , the information unreliable because the observers were not certain of its
length.

The increased light spread in the air by falling on the mountains, the visibility of those which
are positive visible, the thickness of the same reduces the contrary, the visibility of Objects
which, like the Peak of Tenerife and the Azores, stand out dark colored. Bouguer has found theoretically
that, under the condition of our atmosphere Mountains can be seen negatively no further than 35 miles.
The experience - and this Remark is important - contrary to these accounts. The Peak of Tenerife
is often 36, was 38, even seen at 40 miles.

Even more on the way to the Sandwich Islands has reach the summit of Mowna-Roa (9) and at a time
when no snow was on close to the Horizon seen 53 miles. This is so far the most striking known
example of the visibility of a mountain, and what is still more remarkable, these are from
a Object which is visible only negative.

I thought together, these observations at the end of this chapter should, because they belong
to one of the most important problems in optics, to the weakening of the light beams in its passage
through the layers of air, yet not without practical value are. The volcanoes of Tenerife and
the Azores, the Sierra Nevada of St. Martha, the peak of Orizaba, the Silla in Caracas, Mowna-Roa
and St. Elias mountain are scattered in many Sea routes or on the coasts of continents, and thus
serve the mariner, the means has not, to determine the location of
the ship by star observations, as if buoys in the fairway.

Everything related to the visibility of these natural buoys is for the safety of navigation of
concern.

------------------

1 I must here remark that I got from a work in six volumes, the under the strange title: "Around
the world and in South America, A. von Humboldt, published by Vollmer in Hamburg, "Never knowledge
have taken. This travel book written in my name seems to in the newspapers and news given by
individual papers that I did in the first class of French Institute
read, written together with Being.

                            To make the audience aware that it was the compiler for appropriate,
a trip to some countries of the new continent to give more attractive
title of a "trip around the world."

    
      
      2 I have the observations I made in two hemispheres had the opportunity
      to make, together with those in the works of Cook, Lapérouse, d'Entrecasteur,
      Vancouver, Macartney, Krusenstern and Marchand are given, and after
      that vary the speed of the general flow in the Tropical
      5-18 miles in 24 hours, so between 0.3 and 1.2 feet per second.
      
      3 If this is the sea temperature, one has carefully to distinguish
      four quite separate phenomena: 1) Temperature of the water on the
surface at various Latitudes, the sea was adopted as a quiet, 2) the
decrease in the heat the other is mounted on a water layers, 3) the
influence of Shallows to the temperature of the sea, and 4) the temperature
of the Currents, with a constant speed, the waters of the a zone of
quiescent water through the other lead.

    
      
      4 These camels, used for field crops and the meat is in the
      long sometimes eat salted lived, not here before the conquest
      of Islands to the Béthencourt. In the sixteenth century had the
      ass on Fort Aventura in such increased that they were wild and
      you had to hunt them down.

    They fired their several thousand, so the crops were not a basis. The
      horses are from Fort Aventura Berber race and awarded beautiful.

5
      In 32 fathoms, the Fucus lit by a candle been be, that is 203mal
      stronger than the moon, same half of the light that a tallow candle
      at 1 foot distance disseminated. According to my direct tests, however,
      the Lepidium saticum the shining light of two Argand lamps hardly
      noticeably green.
      

    6 I note here that those already on the famous cliff Venetian map of Andrea
      Bianco indicated that but the name Infierno, as well as on the oldest
      map of the Picigano, Tenerife is known, probably because the Guanches
      the Pic regarded as the entrance of hell.
      
      7 With astonishment we read in an otherwise very useful, under the Seafarers
      very popular book in the ninth edition of the Practical Navigator
      by Hamilton Moore, p. 200, in consequence of the Massenattractien
or get a vehicle of universal gravitation hard away from the coast
and become the sloop of a frigate this self-energized.

    
      
      8 The height of this pics is to de Fleurie 1100 toises [2,144 m],
      by Ferrer 1238 [2413], to Tofino in 1260 [2457], but this measure
      are only approximate estimates. The captain of the Pizarro, Don
      Manuel Cagigal did me in his diary that he PIC Azores has seen 37
miles away, to a time when he its length was at least up to 2 minutes,
certainly.

    The volcano South was seen in 4 ° east, so that the error in
      the length of the have estimated the distance only very marginal influence
      could. Meanwhile the angle at which the Pic of the Azores appeared
      so great that Cagigal believes that the volcano had on more than 40
      or 42 leagues Being seen.

    The distance of 37 leagues requires a level ahead of 1431 toises [2789
      meters].
      
      9 is the Mowna-Roa in the Sandwich Islands after Marchand of 2598
      Toises high, according to King 2577, but these measurements are, despite
      their random coincidence, no reliable way to achieved.

     

It was a very warm September day, as against six in the evening appeared clock the invited guests,
in all about fifty people, the women in great pomp, dressed to kill unreasonably, the men in frock
coats and embroidered uniforms. The podium for the comedy took the narrow wall of the hall a totally,
scenery and props, and a number of extras were the manager of the Castle Theatre been made available.
The board was in an adjoining room, and there had also the band arrived, for should be dancing
after dinner.

At seven clock rang a bell, all went to the courts. The curtain rolled
on, and the king began his arrogant tirade.

As the cavalcade turned the corner of the mountain, they paused for one last look at the scene
of that fearful triumph. The city was initially San Baltazar de las Arias, but the Indian Name
those displaced, as the name the name of Caracas Santiago de Leon, whom you frequently of our
cards can see, into oblivion.

When we opened the barometer, we saw to our surprise, the mercury barely 7.3 Lines are lower
than on the coast, and yet the instrument seemed to be very good standard The plane, or rather
the plateau is at Cumanacoa; is not more than 104 toises is above sea level, and this three or
four times less than people think in Cumana, because get there from the cold in the most exaggerated
Cumanacoa has ideas. But the climatic Difference between two places so close stirred perhaps less
of the high position of the latter than from local conditions, which we expect that the forests very
close, the declining Air currents, as in all enclosed valleys, often, the rain precipitation and
the fog very strong, so a large part of the year, the direct effect of Solar radiation is weakened.
As the temperature decreases in the tropics and summer in the temperate Zone is about the same, should
the small height difference of 100 toises only one difference cause the average temperature of 1 to 1
½ degrees, but we will soon see that the same four degrees. This cool air is so much more,
as there is in the City of Carthage, in west Tomependa on the banks of the Amazon and in the
valleys of Aragua, Caracas, very hot, loud places, which lie in 200-480 toises of absolute elevation.
In the plane, as in the mountains, the lines the same heat (isotherms) are not always the equator
or the earth's surface in parallel, and herein lies the great task of Meteorology, to determine the
course of these lines, and by all local causes of deviations round to capture the constant
law of the distribution of heat.

The port of Cumana is Cumanacoa of only about seven nautical miles. At the former places rains
It almost never while in the latter, the rainy season lasts six to seven months. The dry Season
lasts from Cumanacoa in the winter to the summer day and night are equal. Dash rain In April, May
and June, quite often, but later it is again very dry, the summer solstice by the end of August, now
enters the real rainy season, which lasts until November and in which the water pours in torrents
from the sky. On the width of the sun Cumanacoa the einemal on 16 April, at another on 27 August
through the zenith, and from the just mentioned it is clear that these two passages with the onset of
long rains and rains the electric discharges are the same.

Our first visit to the missions fell into the rainy season. Each night the sky with heavy clouds
moved like a thick veil, and was only through cracks in the clouds I do some star gazing. The
thermometer stood at 18.5 to 20 ° (14 ° from 0.8 to 16 ° F.) and this is in the hot zone and
the feeling of the traveler who comes from the coast, significantly cool. In Cumana, I saw the
temperature at night never drop below 21 °. The Delucsche Hygrometer showed Cumanacoa 85 °, and, more
strikingly, when the clouds dispersed and the stars shone in all its glory, was the instrument
back from 55 °. Against Morning the temperature was due to the strong evaporation is slow and
even at ten clock it was not over 21 °. The hottest period is from noon to three clock, then
where the thermometer is at 26-27 °. At the time of greatest heat, about two hours after the
passage of the sun the meridian, moved fairly regularly from a storm that came to a head. Thickness,
black, very low passing clouds dissolved into rain, which lasted two casts to three hours,
and during the same thermometer fell by 5-6 degrees. heard about five clock the rain really,
the sun came up on the sinking is not easy to light and Hygrometer went to the dry areas, but
at eight or nine clock in the evening we were back wrapped in a thick cloud layer. This weather
change is how we were assured, quite legitimately months a day like the others, and yet can not
be the least Draft notice. For comparative observations, I must assume that in the case in Cumanacoa
Night by 2-3, day by 4-5 degrees cooler than in Cumana. These differences are very significant, and
if you asked instead of meteorological instruments only his feelings, so one would consider
more important.

The vegetation on the plain surrounding the city is very monotonous,
but due to the high humidity the air extremely fresh.

Its main characteristics are a tree-like Solanum, the 13 m is high, the Urtica baccifera and a new
species of the genus Guettarda. The soil is very fruitful, and he would irrigate easily when
one of the many rivers, whose sources throughout the year not ending, channels rising up. The
main product is tobacco, and only that it owes the small, ill-built town, if it has a certain
reputation. Since the introduction of the lease (Estanco real de Tabaco) in 1779, the cultivation
of tobacco in the province Cumana almost entirely limited to Cumanacoa. The entire tobacco harvest
must be sold to the government be, and to control the smuggling, or rather restricting it, it was
almost only build on a points tobacco. Guards roaming the land, they destroy each planting, they
find outside the districts allotted to the construction, and give the unfortunate to dare to smoke
homemade cigars. These guards are mostly Spaniards and almost just as rude as the people who drive
in Europe this craft. This rudeness has not done little to stir up hatred between the colonies
and the motherland.

After the tobacco on the island of Cuba and the Rio Negro, the most
Cumana Arom.

He surpasses all of New Spain and the province Barinas. We share good stuff about the construction
of the same with, because it differs significantly from the cultivation of tobacco in Virginia. The
very fact that Cumanacoa in the valley of the plants from the Solanaceae family of so exceptionally
well developed are, especially the many species of Solanum arborescens, dismissed Aquartia and
Cestrum out out that there must be-ing the soil for the cultivation of tobacco very suitable. The
sowing in September made, so sometimes you wait until December, but for the failure of the harvest
not so good. The root leaves show on the eighth day, we covered the young plants with large
heliconias and banana leaves to them the immediate effects of the sun to To withdraw and reutet
the weeds that shoots up in the tropics terribly quickly, carefully from. The tobacco is now
one and a half months after the seeds absorbed in a fat, well-loosened soil was added. The plants
are in straight rows three, four Put another foot, they are busy weeding and heads the main
stem several times to bluish green spots on the leaves as a symbol of maturity * * seen. In the
fourth month begins one to take them off, and this first harvest is over in a few days. It would
be better the leaves one after take off, as they are dry. Cut in the good years Planters the floor,
if the four feet high, down, and the root lap take in so quickly to new Sheets that they have
on 13 or 14 Days can be harvested. These have very loose Tissues, they contain more water, more
protein and less of the sharp, volatile, bound in the water insoluble material to which the
peculiar irritating effect of tobacco seems.

The tobacco is in Cumanacoa treated according to the method of the Spaniards de cura seca means.
It depends on the leaves of Cocuizafasern [Agave americana], replaces
the ribs and turns it into strands.

The prepared tobacco should be made in June in the Royal Magazine be, but out of laziness and
because they the construction of the corn and cassava more attention To give the people get
ready the tobacco rare before August. Understandably, the leaves lose of flavor when they stay too
long exposed to the humid air. The administrator makes the tobacco sixty days untouched in
the royal magazines are, then you cut to the bundle, to check the quality. Finds the manager of
tobacco prepared well, so he paid the Planters for the Aroba of twenty-five pounds three piastres.
The same weight is on account the crown of twelve half piastres resold. The lazy (potrido) tobacco,
ie has gegährt again, is publicly burned, and the planter, of King of the Received advance
lease is irrevocable for the fruits of his long work. We saw in the square pile of five hundred
Arobas destroy, from which we in Europe would have made sure snuff.

The floor of Cumanacoa appropriate for this Culturzweig so well that the tobacco Wherever the
seed moisture finds growing wild. He is the Cerro del Cuchivano and, at the Cave of Caripe.
In Cumanacoa, as in the neighboring districts of Aricagua and San
Lorenzo, by the way only the Tabaksart with large sitting leaves,
the so-called Virginian tobacco built [Nicotiana tabacum].

Entirely unknown, the tobacco leaves with stalked [Nicotiana rustica], the real Yetl * * the
ancient Mexicans, the one in Germany, strangely enough, Turkish tobacco called.

If the cultivation of tobacco-free, so could the province of Cumana a great part of Europe provided
it; yes, other districts seem to produce these colonial produce quite as well suited to as the valley
of Cumanacoa, where excessive rain often leaves the flavors of the entry does. At present, where the cultivation
of tobacco is limited to a few square miles, is the All proceeds
of the harvest only 6,000 Arobas.

The two provinces of Cumana and Barcelona consume but 12,000, and the loss is covered by the Spanish
Guiana. In the area of ​​Cumanacoa give, on average, from only 1,500 individuals with the cultivation
of tobacco, all white, and the natives of the tribe of Chaymas can rarely prospect of gain to
tempt, even holding make it to the lease not fallen, the same advances.

On closer examination of the history of our cultivated plants, so you can see with surprise, that
before the conquest of the use of tobacco over the greater part of America spread was during the
potato, either in Mexico, nor did the West Indies, where they are employed at mountainous locations
away as well.

It was built in Portugal in the year 1559 tobacco during the potato at the end of the seventeenth
and early eighteenth century in European agriculture was over. The latter plant, which for
the good of the human Society has become so important, has spread far more slowly on both continents,
as a product that can only apply for a luxury item.

The main product after the tobacco is in the valley of the Cumanacoa Indigo. The plantations
in Cumanacoa, San Fernando Arenas and deliver a commodity which is commercially more valued as the
indigo of Caracas, he shine and body color is often the Indigo Guatimala
close.

From the latter province is the seed of Indigofera tinctoria Indigofera Anil, in addition built,
will come first on the coast of Cumana. As in the valley of Cumanacoa very much Rain falls,
it is a four-foot tall plant no more than three times smaller dye in the dry valleys of Aragua,
west of the city of Caracas.

All Indigo factories that we have seen, are furnished on the same plan. Two Weichküpen, where is
"the rotten cabbage," side by side. Each measures fifteen square
feet is two a half feet deep.

For these runners, the upper water to enter the crushing box between which the water mill is located.
The tree of the great wheel runs between these Box-by, and on it sit on long stalks the spoon
to pitching. From a wide Abseiheküpe is the color-containing sediment in the dry box and is there
on boards spread from Brazil wood, which means smaller roles can be finalized, if unexpected rain
occurs. These inclined, very low roofs give the dry box by far the reputation of greenhouses.
In the valley of Cumanacoa runs the fermentation of cabbage, that one "can be lazy," very rapidly.
Usually it lasts no longer than four to five hours. This, can only come from the moisture of
the climate and the fact that during development the plant, the sun is not shining. I think the
comment made on my travels to have that the drier the climate, the blade is slower so the stems
and at the same time more Indigo from the lowest oxidation mentioned. In the province of Caracas,
where 562 cubic feet of loosely piled give herb 35-40 pounds of dry indigo, is the liquid until
after twenty, thirty or thirty-five hours in the hammer. Probably were the inhabitants of
Cumanacoa more color fabric from the herb, when the same longer soft in the first runner left. I
have during my stay in the somewhat Cumana heavy copper-colored Indigo Cumanacoa of Caracas
and in comparison to sulfuric acid dissolved and the dissolution of the former seemed to me
far more saturated blue.

Despite the excellent quality of the products and the fertility of the soil Farming in the
Cumanacoa still completely in childhood. Arenas, San Fernando and bring Cumanacoa in the trade only
3,000 pounds of indigo, which is the land worth 4500 piastres.

There is a lack of human hands and the weak population is increasing daily from the emigration
to the Llanos. This immense Savannahs nourish the human lot, because the cattle there so easily
propagated, whereas the indigo cultivation of tobacco and a lot of worry and trouble making. The yield
of the latter is more uncertain, soon as the rainy season long, or shorter the duration. The planters are
of the royal rents, advances makes them totally dependent, and here, as in Georgia and Virginia,
is building it's better food than tobacco plants. They had recently the government made the suggestion,
at the public cost five hundred negroes to create and deliver the planters in the Would be able
to take in two or three years of the purchase price. This was hoped the to bring annual tobacco
harvest to 15,000 Arobas. To my delight, I have many landowners speak out against this project listen.
It was not to hope that we, following the example Some provinces of the United States, after
a certain number of years the Black or would give their offspring the freedom, the more it
seemed questionable, especially after the horrific events on St. Domingo, the slave population in Terra
to increase company. As politics has often the same consequences as the finest and rarest of emotions
Justice and charity.

The courtyards and covered with indigo and tobacco plantations level of Cumanacoa by mountains surrounded,
the higher rise particularly to the south and the same for the physicist and the geologist interesting.
Everything indicates that the valley is an ancient seabed, also fall
the mountains, which once formed the shore of it, perpendicular to
the lake from.

The lake had Arenas just a drain. Digging of house foundations were discovered in layers on
Cumanacoa sediment, with small bivalve shells underneath. After the entry of multiple credible
People are even more than thirty years later in the gorge San Juanillo two enormous Leg bones
were found that were four feet long and weighed about thirty pounds. The Indians were, as now
the people in Europe for big bones, while the half-scholar in the country who have the privilege
to explain everything, in all seriousness insured, it Seyen Nature games, and no great worth considering.
These people relied on their claim to the fact that human bones in the bottom of Cumanacoa quickly
rot. For decoration the churches on All Souls' is allowed to head in the cemeteries are on
the coast, where the Soil is impregnated with salts. The supposed giant bones were taken to Cumana. I
then looked around in vain after that, but according to the fossil bones that I made other lines
of South America brought home and was examined by Cuvier exactly were the huge leg bone of an
extinct Cumanacoa probably Elephantenart at. It may seem strange that the same in such a small height
above the current water level been found for it is very strange that the fossil remains of mastodons
and elephants, which I brought from the tropical countries of Mexico, Neugrenada, Quito, and Peru,
not in low-lying lines (where in temperate zones Megatherien Rio Luxan (50) and in Virginia,
large mastodons on the Ohio and fossil elephants occur at Susquehanna) but on the were collected
in six hundred to fourteen hundred feet high plateaus.

As we approached the southern edge of the pool of Cumanacoa we saw before the Turimiquiri we have. A
huge rock wall, the remains of an ancient coastline rises, in the middle up in the woods. Farther
west, at Cerro del Cuchivano, appears as the mountain chain by an earthquake torn from each other.
The column is about one hundred and fifty toises broad and vertical cliffs surround it. Deep
shade of the trees, not to their branches entwined Have room to spread,
took the column like a sinkhole caused by a Pit.

A stream, the Rio Juagua, passes through the column, which is extremely picturesque and Risco
del Cuchivano means. The small river rises seven miles southwest from the foothills of the Brigantine
is beautiful, and cases before it expires at the level of Cumanacoa.

We often visited a small courtyard, Conuco de Bermudez, the chasm of Cuchivano over. It is building
on a damp floor bananas, tobacco, and several kinds of cotton-trees, especially those whose wool
is nanking-yellow, and on the island of Margarita is so common. The owner told us that inhabits
the chasm of Sey Jaguars. These animals bring the day in caves and creep at night around the
homes. Since they have ample food, they are to six feet long.

Such a tiger had eaten during the past year, a horse belonging to the farm. He dragged his prey in
bright moonlight on savannah under a huge thick Ceiba tree. From the whining of the dying horse awoke
the slaves in the yard. They moved in the middle the night off, armed with spears and machetes * * (51).
The tiger was lying on his prey and she was quietly approaching, and he died after a long
stubborn resistance. This case and many others of which we received on-site customer, shows
that the Great Jaguar [Felis Onca, Linnaeus, Buffon the panthère oillée calls and Africa feels at
home. We will later have the opportunity to come back to this for zoology and animal geography
important point.] by Terra Firma, still the Jaguarete in Paraguay and the real Asian tigers, the
People do not flee if he is to this body, and the number of assailants did not makes shy.
Zoologists now know that Buffon is the largest American cat species throughout has judged wrong.
As the famous writer of the cowardice of the new Tiger World says, is only valid from the small
ocelot, panther or cat, and we shall soon see that on the genuine American Orinoco Jaguar sometimes
crashes into the water to the Indians attack in their canoes.

The court Bermudez against the openings of two large caves are located in the crevice of the Cuchivano
and from time to time to beat it flames up, you see at night very much. The neighboring mountains
are then lit it, and the size of the rocks through which those burning fumes hinanfreichen
would think you try that several hundred Feet tall. During the last big earthquake in Cumana
was the appearance of an underground Dull accompanied sustained roar. She comes from excellent
in the wet season, and the owners of the mountain Cuchivano warrant
to lying plantations, the flames show up more frequently since December
1797th

On a botanical excursion to Rinconada we tried in vain to
penetrate the column.

We had the rocks to hide in their lap the causes of this strange fire seemed like further
investigated, but the lush vegetation that looped into each other Vines and thorn bushes did
not let us move forward. Fortunately, the residents took the Valley active part of our research,
not so much because they are from a volcanic Outbreak feared than because they had put into
his head to the Risco del Cuchivano contains a gold mine. It did not matter that we explained to them
why we at Gold do not believe in the shell could, once they wanted to know "what the German miner
the wealth of the vein. "side think of Charles V and time since the Welser, Alsing and Sailer
in Coro and Caracas sat as governor, has in the people of Terra Firma
Belief in the special mining skill of the German received.

Where am I in South America came across when it was learned that I hersey, I was shown samples of ore.
In the colonies every Frenchman is a doctor, every German a miner.

The planters and their slaves blazed a path through the forest to the first case of the Rio Juagua,
and on 10 September we made our trip to the Risco del Cuchivano. Hardly We had entered the gorge,
we noticed that Tiger was in the area, both on a freshly torn porcupine, as the smell of their
feces, which the European cat similar. As a precaution, the Indians went back to the farm and
brought dogs from very small Race with. They say when you meet the Jaguars on a narrow path,
the first jump to the dog go, not to humans. We did not grow on the banks of the stream, but on
the Rock face above the water up. You go out on a two or three hundred feet deep abyss on a
very narrow lead, like in the way of Grindelwald on Mettenberg towards large Glacier. If the projection
so narrow that we do not know where to put one's foot is so, one descends to the creek, waded through
or can be a slave over , Bear and climbs on to the other slope.

The low-climbing is quite cumbersome, and one can not rely on the vines, like large ropes from
the tree tops hang down. The vines and parasitic plants hang loosely connected to the branches,
they entwine, their stems together a very respectable weight, and if you on a slope Ground is
to the body, swinging from, you run the risk of tearing down an entire green foliage. The farther
we went, the denser the vegetation was. At several points had the tree roots, which had grown into
the cracks between the layers, shattered the limestone.
 It is surprising that in a salt value, formerly of the British, Dutch and other maritime
powers aroused jealousy, no village or even a farm is located. Hardly find at the end of the
headland of Araya some poor Indian fishermen's huts.

It overlooks the island from here also Cubagua, the high peaks of Margarita, the ruins of the
castle of St. Jacob, the Cerro de la Vela and the limestone mountains of the Brigantine, limited
to the south the horizon. How rich the Araya Peninsula of cooking salt, was Alonso Niño already
famous when he in 1499 in Colombo's djeda's and Amerigo Vespucci's Footsteps of the countries
visited. Although the Native Americans among all the peoples of the Globe consume the least salt,
because they live almost entirely of plant foods, seem but have already dug the Guaykari in
the clay soil and salt of the * Punta Arenas about. Self are now the * new * called salt works,
at the end of the promontory Araya, were already in the earliest time in motion. The Spaniards,
the first on Cubagua and soon afterwards on the coast had settled in Cumana exploited, even
at the beginning of the sixteenth century Salt marshes in that stretch north-west as lagoons from Cerro
de la Vela. Since the Cape Araya then had no permanent population, made the Dutch the natural wealth
advantage of the soil, they looked for a common property of all nations. These days, each colony
their own salt works of art and the shipping is so advanced that the Cadiz Merchants with low
cost Spanish and Portuguese salt 1900 miles [8500 km] Send in the far eastern hemisphere can
to Montevideo and Buenos Aires with their needs to provide for the salting. Such advantages were
unknown at the time of conquest, the Industry in the colonies was still so far behind that of
the salt with large Araya Costs to the Antilles, to Cartagena and Portobelo was shipped. In
1605 sent the Madrid court armed vehicles to Punta Araya, with the command there, on station lay
down and expel the Dutch with violence. This continued none the less secretly collect salt until
they built in 1622 at the salt works of a fort under the name of Castillo Real Fuerza de Santiago
or de Araya has become famous.

The large salt marshes are the oldest Spanish maps as soon as a bay, lagoon as soon specified.
Laet, Novus Orbis who wrote his in 1633 and very good news from had said these shores, even
explicitly, the lagoon from the sea by a Sey on the Fluthhöhe located isthmus been apart. In
1726 destroyed an extraordinary Saline was the event of Araya and the fort, which cost over
a million hard piastres was useless. We felt a strong gust of wind, a rarity in these lines, where
the sea is usually not more restless than the water of our rivers and the tide penetrated far
into Country was in and by the incursion of the sea of ​​salt lake in a several miles long Gulf
transformed. Since then, one north of the ridge, which the castle of the North coast of the peninsula
separates created artificial container or box. The salt consumption was in the years 1799 and
1800 in the two provinces of Cumana and Barcelona between nine and ten thousand fanegas, each
to sixteen kilos or four hundredweight. This consumption is very significant and result in
this case, if one settles 50.000 Indians, the very consume little salt, sixty pounds on his
head. In France, one expects, according to Necker, only twelve to fourteen pounds, and the difference
is due to that one as much salt for salting needs. The salted beef, tasajo * * called, is the
principal trade of Barcelona Export items. From nine to ten thousand fanegas salt, which combines
the two provinces will deliver only three thousand of the salt works of Araya, the rest is in Morro
de Barcelona, Pozuelos, Piritu and in the Golfo Triste * * derived from sea water. In Mexico
the only delivered Salt Lake * * Pennon Blanco year over 250,000 fanegas impure salt.

The province of Caracas has beautiful salt works at the cliffs los
Noquez; the little earlier from the Tortuga island located has been
destroyed on the orders of the Spanish government.

They dug a Channel through which could penetrate the sea to the salt marshes. Other nations, the
smaller the Antilles colonies, visited this uninhabited island, and the court of Madrid in fear
suspicious of his politics, the salt works of Tortuga would rise to a fixed be established, whereby
the company would slow trade with Terra as a pretext. The salt mines of Araya only since 1792,
operated by the government itself. Until then, they were in the hands of Indian fishermen
who were preparing to taste salt and sold, what it the government only the moderate sum of
300 piastres paid. The price the Fanega was four reals; [in this itinerary are all prices
in hard Piastres and silver real, real de plata expressed. Eight go to a real hard Or 105 piastres
Sous French money.] But the salt was very dirty, gray, and contained a lot of hydrochloric acid
and sulfuric acid magnesia. Moreover, since the exploitation of the working sides was run
very irregularly, so there was often of salt for salting of the meat and fish, which in these
countries for the progress of the industrious of great concern is because the Indian lower classes
and the slaves of some fish and tasajo * * live. Since the province is under the Cumana Intendauz
of Caracas, there is a salt directed, and the Fanega, which sold the Guayqueries for a half
piastres costs, and a half piastres. For this price increase makes only minor damages, that the
salt is pure and that the fishermen colonists, and it can get the whole year in abundance.
The administration of saline Araya introduced in 1799 the treasury 8000 piastres a year. From
these statistical notes shows that the salt-making in Araya considered as an industry, of no great
Relevant.

The clay from which the salt is to Araya won, comes with the * * Salzthon agree that in Berchtesgaden
and in South America in Zipaquira happens with the rock salt. The salt-soda in this clay is not
disseminated in visible particles, but can be Vorhandenseyn make
easily noticeable.

If one wets the ground with rain water and exposed to the sun, score the salt in large crystals.
The lagoon west of the castle shows all Santiago Phenomena as observed by Lepechin, Gmelin and
Pallas in the Siberian salt lakes have been. It takes only way the rain water percolating through
the Thonschichten and at the lowest point of the peninsula collected. As long as the lagoon the
Spanish and Dutch served as a salt factory, she was in no way associated with the sea, recently
we have now this Content, lifted by at the place where the sea broke in 1726 was a Faschinendamm
landed. After severe drought still from the bottom of the lagoon three to four cubic feet of large
chunks crystallized up promoted very pure salt soda. That the burning sun-exposed salt water of the
lake evaporates on the surface, in the saturated solution of salt crusts form fall to the ground,
and as crystals of the same attract the same composition and shape each other, grow the crystalline
Masses from day to day. It is observed generally that the water everywhere, where laughter have
formed in the clay soil, is salty. In the new salt plant in the batteries of Araya However, you redirect
the sea water into the pit, as in the salt marshes in the mid-day France, but on the island of
Margarita in Pampadar preparing the salt only in that sweet water to leach the salt-containing
clay can be.

The salt contained in Thonbildungen should not be confused with the salt, the is exploited
in the sand on the seashore to occur and the on the coast of Normandy. This are two phenomena
observed from geological point of view, almost nothing with in common. I have saline Thon at
sea, at Punta Araya, and in 2000 Toises high in the Cordilleras of
Neugrenada seen.

When the same at the first place among a Muschelbreccie of education is very new, so he enters
the other hand, at Ischl in Austria as a powerful shift in the alpine limestone on which, although
also younger than the existence of organic Beings on the earth, but very old, as evidenced by
the many mountain limbs, which he deposited are. We do not want to cast doubt that the pure
[the Wieliczka and Peru], or saline clay blended rock salt [that of Hallein, and Ischl Zipaquira]
of precipitation could be-ing of an ancient sea, all but points out that under natural conditions
had to have formed, which differ very significantly from those under which the present sea as a result
of gradual evaporation here and there a few grains of salt-soda in the shore sands . Reflected As
the sulfur and the coal very widely separated formations members, including the rock salt is
now in the transition plaster, now in the alpine limestone, sometimes in a with very new shell
sand stone covered Salzthon (Punta Araya), now in a cast before, the younger than the Cretaceous.

The
new plant of Araya salt consists of five containers or boxes, of which the largest one regular
form and 2300 have Quadrattoisen surface. The average depth of eight inches. They use both
the rainwater that is characterized by infiltration at the lowest point of the Level gathering,
as the sea water that is brought passed through channels when the wind Lake to the coast is
driving. This salt mine is located not as favorable as the lagoon. The water the latter in the
fall, comes from steeper slopes and has a larger base piece leached.

The Indians with the hand pump sea water from a main reservoir in the Box. Easily could be, however,
use the wind as a driving force because the sea breeze constantly Strong blowing from the coast.
You never thought about not carry away the earth already arrived, niederzutreiben shafts still
in Salzthon to seek out films that are rich in hydrochloric acid Soda are. The salt workers
often complain about lack of rain, and the new salt plant seems it difficult to ascertain me that
Quantum of salt alone on account of the lake water is. The natives appreciate it from a six-part
of the whole income. The evaporation is very strong and is enhanced by the constant breeze,
the salt is also on the eighteenth until the twentieth day after it filled the tank, pulled out.
We found (on August 19 Clock afternoon at 3) the temperature of the salt water in the box 32 °, 5, while
the air 27 ° in the shade, 2, and the sand on the coast in six inches deep, 42 °, 5 showed. We
emerged the thermometer into the lake and saw him rise to our surprise only to 23 degrees. This
low temperature is due perhaps her from the shallows, which the Araya Peninsula and the Margarita
Island is surrounded, and in its waste to deeper water layers, the superficial mix.

Although the salt-soda from the Araya Peninsula is not prepared as carefully as in European salt
mines, it is still pure and contains less salt and acid sulphate Earth. We do not know whether
that portion attributable to the purity of salt, the sea provides, is, for if the amount of
dissolved salts in seawater most likely under every zone is the same (46) so we do not know
yet whether the relationship between the muriate of soda, the hydrochloric acid and sulfuric
acid magnesia and sulphate of and calcium carbonate are the same.

After the salt is "we had finished our geodetic work, we set on the evening, a few miles further
on in an Indian hut near the ruins of the The castle of Araya to spend the night. Our tools and our mouths
stocks sent we assume, for if we exhausted from the heat and the reverberation of the soil were we felt
in these countries only in the evening and the morning chill my appetite. We turned to South
and went first to the bare saliferous clay layer and then covered with two sandstone existing hills,
between which lies the lagoon. The night we were surprised, while We followed a narrow path,
on the one hand from the sea, on the other hand, on vertical rock
walls limited.

The tide was rapidly rising and our way more concentrated with each step one. Once at the foot
of the old castle of Araya was a natural picture with a melancholy, Romantic painting in front
of us, and yet was neither the coolness of the dark forest, nor by the magnificence of plant forms
raised the beauty of the ruins. They are on a bare, barren mountains, with agaves, cacti and mimosa
covered and the same not so much a work of human hands, rather than rocks, the oldest in the
upheavals of the globe was shattered.

We wanted to stop, to enjoy the great acting and the demise of Venus to observe the disk from time to
time between the walls of the castle appeared; but the mulatto, who served as leader of thirst,
was lively and penetrated in us to turn back. He had long since realized that we were lost, and as
he hoped, by the fear of to affect us, "he said constantly by tigers and rattlesnakes. Venomous
reptiles are However, the castle of Araya very often, and were recently at the entrance of the village
Maniquarez two jaguars were killed. After the skins preserved to them were not much smaller
as the East India Tiger. In vain we conducted our guide to mind that these animals occur along a coast,
where the goats provide them plenty of food, not people, and we had
to give in and go where we had come.

After we three quarter hours of a covered by the rising tide beach gone, the negro came to us,
our Mundvorrath had been wearing, so he will not see us, he had become restless and walked
towards us. He led us through a thicket of thorns to torch the hut of an Indian family. We were welcomed
with the warm hospitality that you people in these countries all castes place. From the outside,
was the hut in which we secured our hammocks, very clean, we found there, fish, bananas, etc.
And, in the hot area on the choicest food goes, excellent water.

The next day at dawn we saw that the hut where we spent the night, into a heap on the bank owned
homes kleienr of the salt lake. These are the weak Remnants of a considerable village, which
once formed around the castle. The debris a church were half buried in the sand and overgrown
with shrubs. Once in 1762 the castle of Araya to save the maintenance costs of the occupation,
completely destroyed been, was subjected to the gradually in the neighborhood settled by Indians and people
of color Maniquarez, Cariaco and in the Indian suburb of Cumana. Only a few remained out of
attachment Heimathboden on the wild, desolate place. These poor people live off fishing and the Coasts
and on the shoals in the vicinity is very productive. They seemed content with their lot and
found the question strange, why they had no gardens UNSD did not build usable plants. "Our
Gardens," she said, "are over there across the strait, we bring fish
to Cumana and give us for bananas, coconuts and cassava.

"This economy, the inertia appeals, is Maniquarez in and around the peninsula of Araya custom.
The main wealth of the Population consists of goats, which are very large and beautiful. They
run around freely as the goats on the Peak of Tenerife, they are completely wild and they are
characterized as the mules, since, according to appearance, color and pattern would be indistinguishable.
The wild goats are light brown and not different colors like the tame. When a colonist on the
hunt a Goat shooting that is not his own, he brings them immediately its neighbor to whom it belongs.
For two days we heard was from a rare talk of baseness, that a population of Maniquarez a goat got lost,
and that probably a have family in the neighborhood güthlich done with it. Such trains for
large moral purity speak the common people are, often in New Mexico, and Canada in the countries west
of the Aleghanys.

are the colored people, whose huts around the salt lake, was a shoemaker by Castilian Blood. He
took us to the seriousness and the complacency that under these climates almost all people
are intrinsically, regard themselves as particularly talented. It was precisely because the to
tension string of his bow and arrows pointed to, to shoot birds. His trade as a Schuster was
in a country where most people go barefoot, do not register much, he also complained that the
European powder as expensive sey and a man like him the same Weapons would fall as the Indians.
The man had learned the oracles of the village, he knew how the salt is formed by the influence of
the sun and full moon, he knew the sign the earthquake, the characteristics, where gold and silver
found in the soil, and medicinal plants, he, like all colonists of hot chili to California,
and in cold [irritating or debilitating, sthenic or asthenic one healed after Brown's system].
He had the historical traditions the country gathered, and gave us interesting notes about
the pearls of Cubagua, which Luxuries he treated most contemptuously.

To show us what he learned in the holy Font Sey, he led well-pleasing to the saying of Job, that wisdom
is to weigh more than Beads. His philosophy did not extend beyond the narrow circle of life needs.
A firmer ass that a capable charge could carry bananas to the landing place was the highest
The aim of his desires.

After a long speech about the vanity of human glory, he pulled out a leather bag very small and
dim beads and pressed on us the same. He also called us, in our Whiteboard to record that a
poor shoemaker of Araya, but a white man and Castilian noble blood, was able to give us something,
the other side of the sea for a great treasure is true. I am the promise I gave to the brave
man, a little late and look forward to, it can be noted that his altruism is not allowed him to accept
any remuneration. At the Pearl Coast, however, it looks like poor, as in the "Gold and Diamond Country,"
in Choco and Brazil, but coupled with the misery is not here the unbridled greed, as generated
by the treasures of the mineral kingdom.

The pearl mussel is on the shoals, they extend from Cape Paria to Cape Vela, very frequently.
The island of Margarita, Cubagua, Coche, Punta Araya, and the mouth of the Rio la Hacha were in the
sixteenth century, famous in antiquity as the Persian Gulf and the
island Taprobante.

[Strabo lib. XV. Pliny, Lib IX, c. 35, Lib XII, c. 18. Solinus, polymath c. 68, specially Athenaeus,
Deipnosoph. Lib III, c. 45 It] is not correct, as several historians , Assert that the natives
of America, the beads do not as a luxury item to have known. The Spanish, who first landed
on Terra Firma saw at the Wild necklaces and bracelets, and among civilized peoples in Mexico
and Peru beads of beautiful form, were immensely sought. I have brought to the basalt bust of
a Mexican priest, [Humboldt, Atlas pittoresque Table 1 and 2] their head-dress, which otherwise
with the * * Calantica the Isisköpfe Similarity has is covered with beads. Las Casas and Benzoni
tell, and not without Exaggeration, how cruel they dealt with the Indians and Negwer that one
to the pearling needed. In the first period of conquest gave the
island Coche only 1,500 marks Beads monthly.

* * The fifth, which the royal officials collected taxes of beads, totaled to 15,000 ducats,
according to the then value of the metals and in consideration of the strong smuggling a very large
sum. By the year 1530 seems to be the value of the sent to Europe Pearl amount on average to more than
800,000 piastres to have. To assess be of any importance of this branch of trade in Seville, Toledo,
Antwerp and Genoa liked one must remember that at the same time all the mines of America not two
million piastres delivered and that the fleet was for Ovando immensely rich because they face 2600
silver marks led.
 The
beautiful butterfly with large wings, the nymphal flying multiplied enormously high, is: Everything
indicated that we were not far from the coast and an area, where the mean daily temperature of
28-30 degrees is the hundredth part quality scale.

The sky was overcast and threatened with one of the fonts, which at times from 1 to 1.3 inches
of rain falls in one day. The sun shone every now and then the trees, and although we are
against her beam was protected, we almost suffocated from the heat. Even the thunder rolled
in the distance, the clouds were hanging at the top of the high Guacharogebirgs, and the plaintive
howl Araguatos of which we had heard so often in Caripe at sunset, announced the close Outbreak
of the storm. We had the first opportunity, this Heulaffen close to see. They belong to the
genus alouates (Stentor, Geoffroy), the different types of zoologists have long been confused.
While the small American Sapajus that as sparrows whistle, have a simple thin hyoid bone, the
tongue is the large Monkeys, and the alouates Marimondas, to the bones of a large drum. does
your upper throat six pockets, in which the voice starts, and two of which, dove nest-shaped, large
resemblance with the lower larynx have the birds. Of the Araguatos own pitiful sound produced
when the air force flows into the bony drum. I have this very anatomists incompletely known
institutions signed on the spot and the description in my Return to Europe published [Observations
de zoology]. Considering how large at Alouatos the bone box is and how many Heulaffen in the
forests of Cumana and Guyana sit together on a single tree, one wonders not so much about the
strength and extent of their combined voices.

The Araguato, called by the Indians Tamanacas Aravata, on Maypures Maraver resembles a young
bear. He is from the apex of the small, heavily-tapered head to the top the winding tail three
feet long, and his fur is thick and reddish brown in color, also chest and belly are pretty
hairy, not naked as the mono colorado or Buffon roux alouates we have followed closely on
the way from Carthagena to Santa Fe de Bogota. The face the Araguato is blue black, the skin of
the same folded and fine. The beard is rather long, and despite his small face angle of only 30
degrees, he has in view and facial expression as much as people like the marimonda (Simia Belzebuth)
and the Capuchins on the Orinoco (P. chiropotes). For the thousands of Araguatos to us in
the provinces of Cumana, Caracas Guyana and came to face, we have never not on individual
species, yet all Tied a change in the red brown of fur on the back and shoulders perceived.
By Distinct color variations seemed to me at all in the monkeys not to be so often accept as
the zoologist, and the gregarious species they are entirely rare.

The Araguato at Caripe is a new species of the genus Stentor, which I named Simia did ursina
known. I love him so appointed by the color of the fur, and indeed more so, since the Greeks
already have a hairy ape by the name Arctopithekos knew. The same is different from both the Uarino (Simia
Guariba) than on alouates roux (P. seniculus). Look, voice, gait, everything about him is gloomy.
I have very young Araguatos seen, reared in the huts of the Indians, they never play as the small
Sagoins, and Lopez del Gomara describes the beginning of the sixteenth century, her grave
Being very naive when he says: "* The Aranata de los Cumaneses * has a human face, a Goat's
beard and a solemn attitude (Honrado gesto). "I have remarked elsewhere made that the monkeys
are more gloomy, the more people they have similarities. Their Vivacity and mobility decreases,
the more develop the mental powers to them seem.

We had halted to watch the Heulaffen as to thirty or forty in a row
from tree to tree subject to the tangled branches horizontally across
the path.

During this new play we all took advantage of us came against a squad of Indians, the mountains
treat injuries sustained from Caripe. They were completely naked, as most of the natives in
this country. The rather heavily laden women joined the train, the men, even the smallest boy
were all armed with bows and arrows. They still moved, his eyes on the ground, their way. We
would like to hear from them, whether it is still far to the Mission Santa Cruz Sey, where
we wanted to stay. We were completely exhausted and thirst tormented us terribly. The heat was
aching, the closer to the storm, and we found our way to a source, to delete the thirst. The
Indians always si Padre, no Padre replied said they thought we understand a little Spanish. In
the eyes of the natives is every white monk, a priest, for in the missions is characterized by the
clergyman more than skin color by the color of the dress from. As we are the Indians with questions
of how far it still Sey, afflict, they replied apparently at random si or no, and we were out of
their answers nothing of it. This, to us was the more vexatious, as her smile and her gestures
game , Betrayed that they would have liked us complacent, and the woods are more dense appeared.
We had to separate us, the Indian leaders who understood the Chaymassprache, were still far back as
the laden mules rushed at each step in the canyons.

After several hours of constant downward scattered boulders we found ourselves unexpectedly at
the end of the forest of Santa Maria. As far as the eye, a grassland
in front of us, the had planted fresh in the rainy season.

Links We saw into a narrow valley, which is the Guacharogebirge tightens and in the background
with dense forest covered. The glanced away over the treetops, the 800 feet below the road like
a spread out, dark green Carpet exceptions. The clearings in the forest resembled large funnels,
in which we at the dainty Form and the feathery leaves and Praga Irassepalmen recognized. Completely
picturesque the landscape in that the Sierra del Guacharo lies ahead. Its northern, the Gulf of Cariaco
facing slope is steep and forms a rock wall, a nearly vertical Profile, over three thousand feet high.
This wall is covered so weak in that the lines the limestone can follow with the eye. The
peaks of the Sierra is flattened, and only at the eastern end rises, like an inclined pyramid,
the majestic Pic Guacharo. His Shape is reminiscent of the Aiguilles and horns in the Swiss Alps (Schreck
horns, Finsteraarhorn). Since most of the higher mountains with steep slopes appear as they
really are, so it is not surprising that one is in the missions of the opinion that the rage
of Guacharo Turimiquiri and the Brigantine.

The savannah, which we are attracted to the Indian village of Santa Cruz, consists of several very
flat plateau, the floors are like each other. This geological phenomenon which occurs in all climates
seems to indicate that here a long time pool each other and were
poured into each other.

The limestone is no longer sufficient to light; it is covered with a thick layer of earth embankment.
Where we him in the forest of Santa Maria for the last time looked, we found nests of iron ore
in it, and if we are right seen, a hippocampus; we did not succeed to break out there. It measured
seven inches in diameter. This observation is more interesting than we otherwise in this part
of South America never an ammonite have seen. The Mission Santa Cruz is located in the plane. We arrived
there in the evening , it's thirsty half because we had had almost eight hours, no water. The thermometer
showed 26 degrees and we were only 190 toises above the sea. We spent the night in a the Ajupas
to, called "houses of the king," and which, as noted above, the traveler serve as Tombo * * or
Caravanserai. Because of the rain was not thinking about stargazing, and we sat the other day,
23 September, our way to the Gulf of Cariaco down continued. Beyond Santa Cruz begins the dense
forest of new. We found there under Melastomenbüschen a lovely fern with leaves like those
of Osmunda, in the order of the Polypodiaceae a new genus (Polybotria) forms.

Of the mission, we wanted Catuaro east of Santa Rosalia, Casanay, San Josef, Carupano, Go Rio
Caribe and the mountain heard pariah, but unserern to great annoyance, that the strong Rain the roads impassable
and have already done, we risk, our freshly collected losing plants. A wealthy should Cacaopflanzer
us from Santa Rosalia to the port accompanied by Carupano.

We had not heard at the right time for him to stores in Cumana needed. So we decided for us, and just
about to embark in the Cariaco Gulf, place between the island of Margarita and Araya through the
isthmus, to Cumana to go back.

The mission Catuaro is extremely wild environment. Tall trees are still the Her church and the tigers
eat at night the Indians their chickens and pigs. We lived to the priest, a monk of the Congregation
of the Observance, to which the Capuchin Mission had passed, because
it lacked its own order of people.

He was a doctor of Theology, a small, thin, almost exaggerated lively man, he kept us constantly
of the lawsuit, which he led with the Gardian of his monastery, from the enmity of his brothers,
of the injustice of the Alcade that it regardless of their class privileges in the Prison
thrown. Despite this adventure it was, unfortunately, remained the hobby, with metaphysical questions,
as he put it to address. He wanted to hear my views on the free will, the means of the spirits
from her body to make bands sound, particularly but over the souls of animals, all things that he had the
strangest ideas. If you In the rainy season, worked through the woods, one is little speculation
of the kind placed. Besides, in the little mission Catuaro Everything was unusual, even the rectory.
It had two floors and therefore had a heated argument between the secular and ecclesiastical
authorities given cause. The Gardian of the Capuchins, it seemed too grand for a missionary
and he had to force the Indians to break down, the governor strong objection had done, and
enforced his will on the monks. I like to mention the minor incidents only because they look in
the internal administration the missions can take that is not always as peaceful as one believes
in Europe.

We met in the Mission District Catuaro the Corregidor, an amiable, well-educated Man He gave
us three Indians with their machetes in front of us a path through the Forest should pave.
In this less-trodden country, the vegetation in the rainy season is luxuriant that a man on horseback
on the narrow, winding and climbing plants with tree branches covered
pavements almost did not come through.

Much to our chagrin was the missionary of Catuaro accompany us well for Cariaco. We could not refuse:
he left us now with his drivel on the souls of animals and human free will in peace, he had
been talking to us but now from a very different, sadder subject. The Independence movement
that led in 1798 in Caracas almost an outbreak , had been a great excitement among the Negroes,
Coro, and Cariaco Maracaybo previous and followed. In the latter city, a poor Negro had been
condemned to death, and our host, the minister of Catuaro went back now to offer him his spiritual
advisor. How long before we came to the way in which we had to engage in negotiations "about
the necessity the slave trade, have the innate viciousness of the blacks, the blessings which
the Race accrue that they live as slaves among Christians! "

Compared to the "code noir of most other nations, which possessions" in both India have Spanish legislation
is unquestionably very mild. But few, hardly on reclaimed Floor living Negro in ratios that
justice, far from it vigorously in life to protect, not even able to barbarity is punished by which they
died Life come. On passing an investigation, we write the death of his slaves To ill-health, the
hot, wet climate, the wounds that you taught him, however, but not
deep, and certainly not have been dangerous.

The civil authority is in all, in terms of domestic slavery, impotent, and if they say, how favorable
the law That act by which must have the whip and the form and only so many tricks * Can be given
at once *, so this is pure illusion. People who are not in the colonies or still have only lived
in the West Indies are usually of the opinion as it is in the interest of the Mr lie that his
slaves get him to stay, they must be treated more better the less their Seyen. But even in
Cariaco, a few weeks before I came to the province, killed a planter, who had only eight blacks,
their six by inhuman blows. He destroyed wantonly the greater part of his property. Two of
the slaves were left dead on the spot; with the four others, who seemed stronger, he embarked
for the port of Cumana, but they died on the voyage. Prior to this heinous deed in the same
year committed under similar circumstances equally outrageous. Such terrible misdeeds remained virtually
unpunished, and the spirit that makes the laws, and that they have accomplished, nothing in
common. The governor of Cumana was a just, humane Man, but the legal forms are strictly prescribed
and the authority of the governor's not so far to remedy abuses that are now once from each
European Colonisationssystem inseparable.

The path through the forest of Catuaro is not much different than the mountains of Santa Maria
down; even the worst places here just as strange as baptized there. It is like in a narrow,
flushed through the mountain of water, then with a fine, tough clay-filled groove. reduce the
steep slopes at the mules and slides down the cross, this is called Saca-Manteca * now * because
the mud is so soft as butter * *. With the great skill of the native mules, this sliding down
without any risk. The path leads through the rock layers down, which form the outgoing steps
of different heights, and so it is here true "chemin the Echelle." Furthermore, if one is out of the
forest, to get to the mountains * Buena Vista *.

He deserves the name, because from here you can see the town of Cariaco in a wide, with plantations,
huts and coconut palms of groups covered plain. West of Cariaco spreads the wide gulf that
separates a rock wall from the ocean; show against East to the same blue clouds, the high mountains
of Paria and Areo. It is one of the broadest, magnificent views of the coast of New Andalusia.

We
found in Cariaco a large part of the inhabitants in their hammocks ill on intermittent fever.
These malignant fever in the autumn and will become stirring. Considering how extremely fertile and moist
the plane, and the immense mass of decomposed vegetable matter here is, one can see why the
air can be more here than not as healthy as the dry Bottom of Cumana. Not easily found in
the hot zone great fertility of the soil, frequent, long lasting water rainfall, an unusually lush
vegetation together, without that these advantages would be balanced by a climate, the health
of whites, more or less dangerous. For the same reasons that make the soil so fertile and the
accelerate development of the crop, are developing and gases from the soil, with mix the air
and make them unhealthy.

We will have frequent opportunities to link return to these phenomena, if we describe the Cacaobau
and the banks of the Orinoco, where there are spots where even the natives acclimatisiren difficult.
In the valley of Cariaco is the way the unhealthiness of the air not only from the above-mentioned
general From causes, make it, it also maintains local conditions. It is not without interest
be, the land that the Gulf of Cariaco and Paria separated from each other, closer to be considered.

From
the limestone of the Brigantine and Cocollar a strong road running north and is related to the
Primitive rocks on the coast together. This road is called Sierra de Meapire, leads to the town
of Cariaco He called Cerro grande de Cariaco. He seemed, on average, not 150-200 toises high,
where I could examine him, it consists of the limestone banks of the stroke. Marl and limestone
with another switch, which quartz grains. Who the relief formation of the country makes its own
particular study must find it extraordinary that a cross-specified Ridge at right angles two chains,
combines one of which, southern, from secondary Mountain building there, while the other, northern,
is primitive rocks. At the top of Cerro de Meapire you can see the mountains on the one hand to the
Gulf of Paria, on the other hand, after that of the Cariaco incline. Eastward and westward from
the ridge is a low, marshy Soil that sweeps away any break, and it is believed that the two
Gulf by arose that the ground has been torn apart by earthquakes
and has settled, so one must assume that the Cerro de Meapire resisted
these violent shocks added so that the Gulf of Paria and did not merge
into one of Cariaco could.

If this rock dam is not there, there were thus not likely the isthmus. From the castle Araya
to Cape Paria would parallel the whole mountain mass on the coast of a narrow, Margarita running
four times form long island. These views are based not only on immediate Investigation of the
soil and the conclusions from the relief formation of the same; A glance at the outlines of
the coasts and the geognostic map of the country must bring the same thoughts. The island
of Margarita, it seems, formerly with the coast chain of Araya Peninsula by Chacopata The Caribs
and Lobo and Coche islands are interrelated, as the chain now related to the mountains of Cocollar
and Caripe by the ridge Meapire.

In the present state of things you can see the damp plains, the eastern and west of the Stress and
improper hot comb the valleys of San Bonifacio and Cariaco, continually extend into the sea. The
sea pulls back, and this displacement of the coast is particularly striking in Cumana. If conditions
indicate the amount of soil that the Gulf of Cariaco and Paria previously had a far greater extent,
it can be also do not take into doubt that at present the country is gradually increased. In
Cumana was in 1791, a battery, called the Bocca, built close to the sea, in 1799 we saw them lie
far in the country. At the mouth of the Rio Nevari, the Morro de Nueva Barcelona the sea pulls back
even faster. This local phenomenon is probably due to Alluvium ago, the increase ratios are not
observed properly.

Starting from the Sierra de Meapire which the isthmus between the plains of San Bonifacio and forms
of Cariaco, down, we come to the east of the great Putacuao, of the Rio Areo is connected and 4-5
miles wide. The mountainous country to this basin is only known to
the natives.

Here, again, the large boas, which the Indians Chaymas Guainas * * To call and which they ascribe
a sting in the tail. Starting from the Sierra Meapire down to west, one first enters a "hollow ground"
(tierra Hueca) used in the great earthquake of 1766 threw out a viscous oil, wrapped in asphalt,
still seen a host of hot, hydrogen sulfide-containing springs burst from the ground, and finally
to get to the lake Campoma whose exhalations in part the unhealthiness of the climate of Cariaco
. Cause The natives believe that the hollow ground Sey Wherefore, because the warm water, have
been dammed, and after the sound of the hooves seem to underground Cavities from west to east
to Casanay, three or four thousand toises extend too far. A River, the Rio Azul, runs through these
levels. They are broken as a result of earthquakes, here have a special oven and propagate
rare to Cumana.

The water of the Rio Azul is cold and pale, and he rises on the western slope of the Meapire,
and it is believed Wherefore he Sey so strong because the waters of Lake Putacuao on the other
side of the mountain trickles. The stream and the hydrogen sulfide-containing sources pour
together in the Laguna de Campoma. It means a vast marsh, which in the dry season three basins breaks
that lie northwest of the city at the end of the Cariaco Gulf. Evil-smelling fumes rise up from
the constant standing swamp water. They smell of hydrogen sulfide and also of rotten fish
and decomposed vegetable matter.

The miasma formed in the valley of Cariaco just like in the Roman Campagna, but by the tropical heat
will increase their destructive power. The location of the Lagoon of Campoma the northwest, which
blows very often after sunset, the inhabitants of the small Cariaco most dangerous city. His
influence is subject to the less open to doubt, as the Intermittent fever to the swamp, which
is the main focus of foul miasma, and more frequently in typhoid fever . Pass Whole families
of free Negroes, on the north coast of the Gulf of Cariaco small Plantations have lie with
the onset of rainy season sick in their hammocks. This fever assume the character of malignant
remittent fever, if you are, exhausted from a long Work and strong Hautansdünstung, exposing the
fine rain that falls frequently in the evening. The colored people, especially the Creole negro
withstand the climatic influences more than any other breed of people. Treating the patient
with lemonade, with the infusion of scoparia dulcis, rarely with Euspare, that is with the
cinchona bark of Angostura.

On the whole, is lower in the Cariaco epidemics in the mortality rate, than one would expect.
If the intermittent fever infects several consecutive years a person, it attacks the Body
strong and to bring him down, but this weakness, in unhealthy areas so common, does not lead
to death. Also, it is remarkable that here, as in the Roman Campagna, faith prevails, the air
unhealthy to the extent Sey become ever more acres Country is cultivated.
 

About eleven clock morning, we got a very low island to face, on which some sand dunes collected.
Through the telescope had discovered no trace of inhabitants or cultivation. Hin and resisted
as Cactus cylindrical chandeliers. The ground seemed to be almost free of plant moving wavy due
to the strong refraction suffered by the sun rays when they pass through layers of air, which
rest on a very hot area. The Mirage makes that in all zones deserts and sandy beach moved
to exclude such lake.

The flat land we had before us was true, too bad the idea that we of the island of Margarita made.
While you were employed to compare the details of the cards without having to bring in harmony, can be
signaled from the mast a few small fishing boats. The captain of the Pizarro she called in
with a gun, but such a sign used to do in countries where the weak, if he meets the strong,
believes only must be prepared for rape. The boats fled to the west, and we saw here in the
same embarrassment as when we arrived on the Canaries before the small island of Graciosa.
There was no one on board had ever been in the area around the country. So calm the lake was,
but seemed close to a little islet a couple of feet high Precautions to erheischen. They contributed
no more to the country, and hastily threw out the anchor.

Coasts, seen from a distance, behave like clouds, in which each observer the objects seen employing his
imagination. As our pictures and the text of the chronometer with the cards that we were on
hand, stood in contradiction, so we lost in vain Conjectures. Some were piles of sand for Indian
huts and pointed to the point where had to be after them the Fort Pampatar, others saw the
Ziegenheerden, which in the dry Valley of San Juan are so common, they showed the high mountains
of Macanao to them in half Clouds seemed wrapped. The captain decided to send a tax man to land,
was placed Hand, to let the sloop into the water, the boat through the roads of Santa Cruz the
surf had suffered greatly. As the coast was quite far away, was able to return to the Corvette
will be difficult if the wind was strong in the evening.

When we were just preparing to go ashore, they saw two canoes go to the coast. They were called
by a second cannon shot, and although one of the flag of Castile had raised, but they were brought about
only slowly. These canoes were, like all the natives, from a tree trunk, and each is eighteen
Indians were the tribe of Guayqueries [Guaykari], naked to the waist and of high growth. Her body
became the father of great muscular strength and their skin color was a cross between brown and copper
red. From a distance, as they are immobile sat and stood out from the horizon, they could hold
for bronze statues. This was us the more striking because it corresponded so little to the notion
that we are after some travel reports of the peculiar physical appearance and the great physical
weakness made the natives had. We made as a result of the experience, and needed the borders
of the province Cumana to exceed, as striking the outside of the Guayqueries Chaymas and The
Caribs are different. So close to all the peoples of the Americas seem related to each other,
since they belong to the same race, so different but the stems often much in stature, in the more
or less dark color, an eye, the one from the peace of mind and gentleness, speaks with an uncanny
means other thing of gloom and wildness.

As soon as the canoes were so close that you could call the Spanish Indians, they lost their
distrust and drove almost on board. We learned from them, the low island, with where we anchored
in the Sey Coche Island, which had always been uninhabited and the Spanish Ships coming from
Europe, usually to the north between it and the island Margarita by going to the port of Pampatar
a pilot, to take. Unknown in the Area, we had fallen into the canal south of Coche, and as the
English cruisers then frequently in these regions showed us had the Indians for an enemy vehicle
considered. The southern passage, however, has significant advantages for ships of Cumana go
to Barcelona, ​​and has less depth than the north, far narrower aufzufahren passage, but as
is the risk when you get close to the islands of Lobos and Moros del Tunal holds. The canal
between Coche and Margarita is on the shoals north-western promontory of Coche and concentrated
by the bank at the punt de Mangles.

The Guayqueries belong to the tribe of civilized Indians, on the coasts of Margarita and live
in the suburbs of Cumana. According to the Caribs of Guyana, they are the Spanish most beautiful
race of men in Terra Firma. You can enjoy various privileges, as it has the first period of conquest
have proven to be true friends of the Castilians. The King of Spain calls her thus in his own hand "his
dear, noble and true Guayqueries." The Indians, on which we encountered in the two canoes were,
the port of Cumana, in the Night after night. They wanted to get into the timber Cedrowäldern
[Cedrela odorata Linnaeus], ​​the from Cape San Jose to beyond the mouth of the Rio Carupano
extend beyond. They gave us fresh coconuts and some fish of the genus Choetodon whose colors
do not we have enough could admire. What treasures contained in our eyes, the boats of the
poor Indian! Immense Vijaoblätter [. Heliconia Bihai] covered banana bunches, and the shell
of a shed Tatou [armadillo, Dasypus, Cachicamo], the fruit of Crescentia cujete that the natives
used as drinking vessels, natural bodies, which belong to the European Cabinet to the commonest, were
uncommon charm for us, because they warned us strongly because we are in hot Life jackets were and
the long-desired goal was achieved.

The Patron * * The canoes offered to remain on board the Pizarro to us as pilots to serve. The
man took his leave with his whole being, he was a keen observer and had a lively curiosity in the
marine products such as with the native plants given. A happy coincidence would have it, the first
Indian to whom we in our land met, the man was whose acquaintance our trip was extremely beneficial
purposes. With pleasure I write this story down in the name of Carlos del Pino, that was the
Man who gave us sixteen months on our trains along the coastal and inner land has accompanied.

Towards
evening, the Captain of the Corvette clear the anchor.

Before the shoal or the Placer at Coche left, I determined the length of the eastern headland
of the island and it was 66 ° 11 '53 ". Westwärts controlling, we soon had the little island
Cubagua before us, which is very bleak now, but was formerly famous for pearl fishing. Here
the Spaniards just after Columbus and Ojeda founded the city under the name Travel Neucadix, of
which no trace exists. At the beginning of the sixteenth century, the beads Cubagua of Seville
and Toledo, as known to the great masses of Augsburg and Bruges. Since Neucadix had no water,
so it had to be on the adjacent coast of the Manzanaresflusse To get it though, I do not know
why, accusing that cause eye inflammation. The writers of that time is all the wealth of the first
settlers, and the luxury, the driven it, and now the sand dunes of charge on the uninhabited coast
and the Cubagua name is listed on our maps no.

Once in the lines, we saw the high mountains of the west of the island
of Cape Macanao Margarita rise majestically in the distance.

After the elevation angles, which we in 18 miles Distance measures like these peaks 500-600
toises absolute height. After Louis Berthoud's Chronometer is Cap Macanao under 66 ° 47 '5
"length. I took the rocks at the end of the promontory on, not the very low promontory that sweeps
away to the west and in a shallow loses. The length I found for Macanao, and the one I described
above for the eastern tip the island of Coche specified soft, Fidalgo of observations from
only 4 Zeitsecunden.

The wind was very weak, the captain considered it more advisable, tacking up to daybreak. He was
afraid at night in the port of Cumana to enter, and an unfortunate coincidence who had just recently
occurred here, this seemed to caution areas. A packet boat had cast anchor, without lighting
the lanterns on the stern, we considered it a enemy vehicle and the batteries of Cumana opened
fire on it. The captain of the steamer one leg was torn off and he died a few days later in Cumana.

We
spent the night in part on the deck.

The Indian pilot, entertained us of the animals and plants in his country. We listened to
our delight, a few miles Sey from the coast is a mountainous, inhabited by Spaniards land where
bitter cold rule, and the levels are two very different crocodiles [crocodilus acutus and
C. Bava.] Before, and also Boas, electric eels [Gymnotus electricus, Temblador.] And several
Tiger species. Although the words Bava * * * * * and Cachicamo Temblador us * were quite unknown,
made us the naive description of the shape and the manners of the animals immediately recognize
the species, which the Creoles call Sun We did not think that these animals over vast tracts of land
are scattered, and hoped to be able to observe the same in the woods near Cumana. Nothing excites the
curiosity of nature more knowledgeable than the report of the wonders of a country that he should
enter.

On 16 July 1799, at dawn, was a green, picturesque coast before us. The mountains of New Andalusia
limited, half veiled by clouds, the horizon to the south. The city Cumana with its castle
appeared between groups of Cocosbäumen. At nine in the morning clock, a and forty days after
our departure from Corunna, we were anchored in the harbor. The patients dragged themselves on
deck at the sight of a country feast, where your suffering End should be found.

                            ------------------

31 That continued while an upper air flow from
the equator to the poles and a lower proceeds from the poles to the
equator, Diess, the Arago dargethan has already been recognized by
Hooke.

   His ideas on this by the famous English physicist, in a speech of the
      year 1686th "I think," he adds, "that several phenomena in the air
      and at sea, particularly the winds from Polar currents can explain.
      "Hadley out this interesting Point not to, on the other hand takes
      Hooke, which he abandoned the trade winds to speak for himself is,
      Galileo's erroneous theory, after the move the earth and
      air with different velocities should.
      
      32 The Spanish sailors called the very strong trade winds in Cartagena
      de los brisotes la Santa Martha and in the Gulf of Mexico las brizas
      pardas.

   The latter winds, the sky is gray and clouded.
      
      33 Phoenician vessels appear in "in 30 days with shipping and The East
      Wind "to sea grass * * came to be, that the Spaniards Portuguese
and Mar de Sargazo means.

   I have elsewhere shown that this passage in the book of Aristotle's
      De Mirabilibus "is probably not, as a similar point in the Periplus
      of the Scylax, the can relate coast of Africa. If we assume that
      the grass covered sea that the Phoenician ships stayed in their
      course, Mar de Sargazo do, one need not assume that the Old in the Atlantic
      Ocean beyond 30 Longitude of Meridian Seyen also come from Paris.

34
      The maps of Jefferys and van Keulen indicate four islands, the nothing
      but imaginary dangers are: Garca Islands and Santa Anna, west of
      the Azores, the island green (at 14 ° 52 ' Width, 28 ° 30 'length)
      and the island Fonseco (under 13 ° 15' latitude 57 ° 10 'length).

   How can the existence of four islands of Thousands of ships traffic
      strokes believe, since so many small reefs and shoals, the last hundred
      years of leichtgläubien sailors have been noted, hardly two or
      three have come true? As regards the general question, with what degree
      of probability can be assumed that between Europe and America of a
      mile island visible will be discovered, they could be a strict accounting
      To submit if you knew the number of vehicles that have been
      three hundred years, each year the Atlantic, sail, and if this is the
      uneven distribution of vehicles in various Strokes flan. JURISDICTION
      the Maalstrom after Van culling indication below 16 ° latitude
      and 39 ° 30 'length, so we would on 4 July also drove away.
      
      35 law to the other pole of the firmament Offered to represent
      four stars from my sight, The only permitted the first pair to behold.

Your
      glow seemed to delight the sky: O mitternächt'ger sheet so orphaned,
      Because you refresh them up never can!
      
      (After Kannegießer translation).

         
      
      36 In the Atlantic, is a line where the water is always milchigt appears,
although the lake is very deep there.

      This remarkable Phenomenon is reflected in the
      width of the island of Dominica and about
      below 57 ° of longitude.

      If at this point, still further east than Barbados, a sunken volcanic
island in the sea level lie?

   
      
      CHAPTER FOUR
      
      EVERYBODY PASSING first in Cumana. - The banks of the Manzanares
      

We were on 16 July at dawn on the anchorage, opposite the mouth of
the Rio Manzanares, Once there, we were able to disembark, but only
late in the morning, because we are visiting the port officials had
to wait.

         Our eyes were hanging on the groups of Cocosbäumen that lined the
shore and ruled that more than sixty feet [20 m] high strains the
landscape.

The plane was covered with bushes of Cassie, Capparis and the tree-like mimosa, which, like the pine
of Italy its branches spread out like an umbrella. The feathery leaves of palm trees stood out from
a Blue sky from which no trace of clouded haze. The sun rose rapidly to the zenith, a dazzling
light was spread in the air and lay on the hills with scattered whitish columnar cactus, and [on
the ever-calm seas, the shores of Alcatras A brown Pelican on the size of the swan. Pelicanus
fuscus, Linnaeus.], Herons and flamingos populated are. The bright daylight, the colors of
the plants, the shapes of plants, the colorful plumage of birds, all bore the stamp of the
great tropical nature.

Cumana, the capital of New Andalusia is a mile [4.5 km] from the landing place or Battery de
la Bocca, in which we increased to the country after we have the bar of the Manzanares down.
We had to cross a vast plain [El Salado], between the suburbs the
Guayqueries and the coast.

The extreme heat was the radiation of the partially plants without soil even further. The
centigrade thermometer, inserted in the white sand, was 37 °, 7 Salt in small pools of water he was
at 30 °, 5 while in the port of Cumana, the Sea temperature at the surface usually 25 °, 2
to 26 °, is 3. The first plant we picked on the American mainland, was the Avicennia tomentosa
(Mangle prieto) which is hardly two feet high. This shrub, which Sesuvium, the yellow and Gomphrena
Cactus cover the soil impregnated with salts of soda, they are among the few Plants, which, like
the European nations, social life, and the like in the hot zone only on the seaside and on the
high plateaus of the Andes occur. No less interesting is the cuman Avicennia by another peculiarity:
is this plant the shore and the coast of Malabar Community.

The Indian pilot, took us through his garden, which built much more than a wood one The country
was like. He showed us as evidence of the fertility of the climate a cheese tree (Bombax heptaphyllum)
had its root in the fourth year already with a half feet [75 cm] in diameter. We have made
on the banks of the Orinoco and the Magdalena River, the observation
that the Bombax, the Carolinee that Ochromen and other trees from
the family of hollyhocks grow exceptionally fast.

I do believe however, that the statement of the Indian over the age of the cheese tree somewhat exaggerated
was, for in the temperate zone, on the moist and warm soil of North America between the Mississippi and
the Aleghanis the trees in ten years about a foot [32 cm] thick, and the growth there is generally
only one-fifth faster than in Europe, even if one chooses to compare the plane-tree, the tulip
tree and Cupressus disticha, the 9:00 to 15:00 foot [3 and 4.5 m] to be thick.
 The small
town is situated on a bare, almost circular, surrounded by high mountains and level takes from
the outside very gloomy. The population is barely 2300 souls strong, the time the Father Caulin
in 1753 it amounted to only 600

The renowned Wouter (or Walter) Van Twiller was descended from a long line of Dutch burgomasters,
who had successively dozed away their lives and grown fat upon the bench of magistracy in Rotterdam,
and who had comported themselves with such singular wisdom and propriety that they were never
either heard or talked of; which, next to being universally applauded, should be the object
of ambition of all magistrates and rulers. People who a day
at this hour saluted without speaking to each other, stopped, made anxious or surprised faces, shrugged
their shoulders and finally expressed with a specific gratitude to conventional hands are at
ten paces stopped again. They had obviously a need to communicate something As for all and
interested. At the corner of Ferdinand Street read a porter in a circle of men and maids a place
of "Tschesky curir," and went a bit further, an older gentleman from a coffee house and said to
his companion in German: "Very dangerous people should have this one ..." What's not to was to not
understand. The Lord was very self-conscious in a very shiny Shoes on and the younger one next to him
nodded at every word confirmed it humbly, he seemed to be all the same opinion. When it came Bohush
in the vicinity of the National, recognized Norinski it behind a window, the others who could
not see anything in his heroic nature seemed to explain. Hesitated for a while the hunchback.
Then he joined not but the quay went down to his apartment. He was tired.

Norinski was, however, came to an end.

He drank his coffee pose a lavish - it should not have to be a poisoned chalice - and said large:
None of you "will say I am not a good Czech.
 With
significant benefit we would probably still more concerned with the natural products of the countries
the goal of our research was, but it pushed us too much of the rebate, which the Court granted
us, to exercise, but that we should postpone our departure can. Since one years I had encountered
so many obstacles that I could not believe it, that my greatest wish would finally come true.

We left Madrid about the middle corn. We traveled through a part of old Castile, by the Kingdom
of Leon and Galicia to Corunna, where we embark to the island of Cuba should. The winter had been
severe and long and now we enjoyed on the trip to the mild Spring temperature, which usually come
so far to the south owned only the months of May and April is. Snow still covered the high peaks
of granite Guadarama, but in the deep valleys Galicia, which are reminiscent of the picturesque
landscapes of Switzerland and Tyrol were all Rocks with Cistus in full flower and tree heather
covered. You are happy when If the Castilian plateau behind it, which almost entirely of vegetation
Bared and where it is very cold in winter, is oppressively hot in summer. According to the
few observations I myself could do, there is the interior of Spain from a broad level, the 300 Toises
(584 feet) above the surface of the sea with secondary formation of mountains, sandstone, Gypsum,
rock salt, Jurassic limestone is covered, the climate of Castile is much colder than that
of Toulon and Genoa, the average temperature of 15 degrees errecht hardly a hundredth part
quality scale. It is surprising that among the width of Calabria, Thessaly and Asia Minor,
the orange trees outdoors no longer get away. The plateau in the middle of the country is surrounded
by a low-lying, narrow zone where at several points Chamaerops, the date tree, sugar cane, the
banana and Spain and northern Africa many common plants occur without to suffer from winter frost.
In the 36 - 40 Degree of latitude, the mean temperature 17-20 degrees, and by the association
of conditions that can not be enumerated, is this happy land of the principal seat of the industrious
and spiritual formation become.

Coming in the Kingdom of Valencia from the coast of the Mediterranean
against the plateau of La Mancha Castile and up, it is thought, deep
in the country, widely extended steep slopes the old coast of the
peninsula in front of you.

This strange phenomenon is reminiscent of the Tell the Samothracier and other historical evidence,
which seem to point out extended that by the outbreak of water from the Dardanelles, the basin
of the Mediterranean been torn apart and the southern part of Europe and the Mediterranean
is swallowed. If one of these legends Seyen no geological dreams, but really based on the recollection
of an ancient upheaval, it would have the Spanish Central level the impact of the huge waves
resisted until the water from between the Pillars of Hercules which forms the end of sea outflow
of, so that the decreased levels of the Mediterranean and gradually Lower Egypt on the one hand,
other hand, the fertile plains of Tarragena, Valencia and Murcia have been drained. Which is related
to the formation of this sea, the existence of such significant influence on Culturbewegungen
the earliest of mankind was, is of particular interest.
 

My eyes searched Lore, and they need not look far. She sat the billiard room compared to between
a pair of younger girls who spoke vividly to her, while she listless peeped on.

In her hair she wore a white rose, a rarity in this time of year, but on her face Rose was the time
passed, no longer shone red through these delicate, pale cheeks.

Even the Raugrafen I saw he was sitting with crossed legs, like fatigue, on the other Side of
the room .-- I was standing near him. As the musicians their instruments at hand took one of the
younger students came to him.

"Let me the lore for this dance!" said He Shy.

"Another time, Fox!" replied the Raugraf and rejected his beautiful, but pale head Back against
the wall. The music was, but he did not get to his partner to fetch, and he raised his hand
and made negligent against them through a sign with his fingers. I saw how they threw an angry
glance at him and then without getting up, her eyes in the hand propped buried. The Raugraf
folded his forehead, and after a while he jumped up and walked down the hall until he stood before
her .-- When she still does not look up, he put his arm around her and pulled her with a quick
movement up to him. He seemed to some Hervorzustossen words with
violence, however, I was too far away to understand something like
this to be able to.

Then he went with her to the top of the other couples and opened the dance.

She was a full-grown Maedchengestalt, but nevertheless they gave him only up to the breast.
I watched them for a long time: she had let her head fall back, while it was almost taken from
his arm and touched only tiptoe the ground, he leaned over her and his eyes were still as that
of a young bird of prey on her face, she held out to him with closed
eyes.

When the dance was over, he led her to her place and made them easy to slip from his arms on the
chair.

The pause lasted not long, however. Soon came a restlessness in the hall, the music started at
breakneck pace, and the couples lined up against one another stormy.

The dance began again, laughter and boisterous calls flew through the rounds, always wild I saw the little
frivolous little feet glide over the dark spots on the floor. Finally, there was a tour through
the boisterous version, the number of poor Children was inevitably brought to the event.

Then at a sign as the music ceased, and while her dancers, laughing over them, jumped stood it
up with hot faces and stroked the hair from his forehead, or sought to beat the dust from
their hard-earned Ball State .-- I do not know it was still a remnant
of the Zerstoerungstriebe of the child, or was it all of the inherent
human Urge against the rebel, whose influence can not escape - it
seemed as if the academic youth in the woman's not cocky Herabwuerdigung
could make satisfaction.

Lore, which I left not out of eight, was sitting alone in the same
place where they from Raugrafen had been kept.

She seemed to have forced that to that punch No one had even asked only.

During soon, maybe the sake of contrast, a counter-dance with all the solemnity was executed, I went
with a friend in the side room.

We met several older Students, and soon we were, our beer mugs in front of us, in all the equally
of interest Talking about deepening the contingencies of the upcoming exam.

As a next door put down the music, even some of the couples came to our table, and the Raugraf Lore
was also among them .-- They sat next to him while he looked at the menu, and soon the waiter
a few bowls and a bottle of champagne was placed before the two. The cork was removed carefully - never
let the Raugraf popping champagne corks a -, and the sparkling wine flowed in the glasses.
The other girl, which a simpler Meal was served, her dancers met secretly with the elbows,
and my attention was almost exclusively on this pair had addressed .-- Lore her pale face
in the a hand-held, while the other as forgotten at the foot of the
full glass rested; the Raugraf busied himself comfortably with his
Lerch Salmi and sipped in silence his wine.

"Will you not eat, Lore?" he asked at last.

She shook her head.

He looked at her a moment. "It was because he was still alive, only
one poor foolish man, "she said, her voice almost broke into subdued sobs," but he was my father,
and it took me so loved but no one else - he would tell me even now not yet failed. "

When she had said this, we were both silent, only I had, I knew that without it, their both
hands taken, and they let me. - I heard from the other side of the house, from the hall here, the
voice of the Raugrafen call her name.

She shuddered. "Lore," I said, "because you can not get rid of that man?"

Her eyes looked at me big and sad.

"Oh yes!" she said softly, and I felt as If I saw a smile on her lips, but a smile as veiled
malice .-- By was called once more and more in our vicinity.

She dried her eyes hastily. "Good-bye, Philip, farewell!" she whispered.

I felt the pressure of the two small hands, then she was gone.

As long as I have gone among the trees and down, I do not know. I only came back consciousness
of things around me, than inside the hall suddenly stops the dance
music and I heard the screaming instead of the large owls, which drove
her deeper in the forest sector.

When I meet to get the stone steps to the footpath at the front of the Vorueberging house, I saw Lore
again.

She was in the hall, his arm around one of the Wrapped columns, and looked through the trees
down to the lake, where just a weather note shone brilliantly over the water.

On the beach

I had a long sleepless located on a cushion, meditating on a Plane, I Lore with Open the help
of my mother and would like another refuge, perhaps the most difficult was, how I can persuade
them to accept one such.

When I awoke late the next morning, Fritz was mayor, as we as a boy wont to call, in my bed I sat
and laughed with his faithful eyes .-- Soon we had side by side on
the sofa, and Fritz fully to tell friends of Community, he left behind
in Heidelberg.

But I heard only half listening, my thoughts were with the experience of the previous night.

Some time afterwards, when we leave the house and to my proposal on the shore along in the shady
elm avenue next to each other were, I lightened my heart and told
him all that I had to learn about Lore with her own.

Fritz listened in silence, sometimes he just muttered a curse crude by the stones lying in the
way fortstiess with his foot, or he led a blow in the air as he would have a racket in hand.

There
was not even in this sign, eight days later he was standing on the scale of the Raugrafen opposite.
But the Raugraf struck a dangerous third, and Fritz was a "scar" the scar even now, when the rising
anger him like a red flash over his face flames .--

When we came out of the alley in the forest and had nearly reached
the point where the Walk the hill after the dance house goes up, we
saw on the other side of the trees are several people on the beach.

They stood close to the water and seemed to busy, something that
could not distinguish one set down to the ground.

In the same Just then a man up in fishermen's clothes in his way.
"What's down there?" I asked in temporarily.

"No good, sir!" was
the reply. "A young woman had an accident."

"Lore!" I cried and involuntarily
grabbed the hand of my friend.

He uttered a sound of terror. For a moment nodded they're
all the friends, and put some small word, like a bashful charity in the hand of justice. But
eventually, they all looked at - it was so tempting alone and as one might easily have done so a
few confessions. Pátek summarily condemned these Cave romance, but which would not even in
the novels of rights and the poet Machal, which is only a very vague idea of ​​what had happened
had yawned, and threw between two Gähnversuchen one that the whole thing seemed to him brutally, horribly
brutal. Karas of every day is a cosmopolitan feel, delivered a long speech, during which his
"Adam's apple" like a frog in doubt tortured and descended. His end was that one to the outside
of the state of affairs because of the view that these young people are not alone Martyrs of
their idea, but the fallen heroes were a national cause, with all Funds would have to maintain
that he himself - here - can not help such Immaturity, he said almost - immature - to condemn
teenage boys. Man is yet to be made to one did, after all, that one's rights by large national
Bethätigungen in life and on the political theater (a word which in his Karas Feuilletons used
resistant) could save more than by such improprieties. He probably had a few familiar phrases in
the pool, but he stopped suddenly. He knew itself is not why. The other looked up and there stood
before them Rezek. The student, in his pale face, her dark eyes were burning, overlooked the
hands that held out to him. Perhaps he had heard the last words of the critic, but he said
nothing, sat quietly at his usual place and drank his Tschaj. His hands were shaking hard quietly.
They dared not speak. Finally began to Pátek to talk about a new book, and The artists are all lost
in these discussions. These were stories in the style Maupassant, which would appear to be a young
colleague. There were some difficulties the question of money and other publishing matters, and
we discussed whether we come to the aid of the author should. The mighty Karas was not very
inclined to do so. Cried Pátek indignantly: "But I Please, this is a national cause, "

Rezek rose with an icy smile: "Are you Czechs," he said.

All were silent and looked at each move.

Schileder had risen.

"Are you Czech?" Repeated the student.

Karas soothingly: "What are you thinking, Rezek? Do not provoke.

"

"But are you ready? What? "Continued the away. »Mature and ready."

"He's
drunk," Machal whispered contemptuously.

Rezek clenched his fists.
But he restrained himself, "I know that you are accustomed to just
to keep anger for ordinary drunkenness. I know. Quandt, "

Caspar, while still half asleep, thought the voice Hickel
seen.

It was somewhere a window open, said of the street something that could not understand Caspar, was
soon afterwards a door in the house. It then stayed quiet for a while. Caspar lay on its side
to weiterzuschlafen, since there was a knock at his door. "What is it?" Said Caspar.

"Have to, Hauser," said Quandt's voice.

Caspar jumped out of bed and pushed back the bolt.

Quandt, fully dressed, entered on the threshold.

His face looked pale in the dawn of greenish.

"The president is dead," he said.

In a dizzy feeling in Caspar sat
on the bed.

"I am about to go if you want to join, do quickly" went
Quandt muttering continued. This place, which is more than 1530 toises [2982 m] on the
Coast, called Estancia de los Ingleses (14), without doubt, because the sooner the British Pik
visited most often. Two overhanging rocks form a sort of cave protection the wind offers.
 Schileder was
indignant face it: he said something about the courage of young people and the fact that they
do not just wanted words made, fine words, but to act. He could not articulate intimidated and remained
silent when he was not too vigorous assent.