Nor was the congratulation all on one side. Society was quite as positive that Beaumont had
been equally fortunate, and there were some that insisted that he had gained the richer prize.
It was known that Laura had considerable property in her own name, and it was the general belief
that she would eventually become heiress of a large part of the colossal fortune supposed to
be in the possession of Mr. and Mrs. Arnot. In respect to character, beauty, accomplishments-in
brief, the minor considerations in the world's estimation-it was admitted by all that Laura
had few superiors. Mr. Beaumont's parents were lavish in the manifestations of their pleasure
and approval. And thus it would seem that these two lives were fitly joined by the affinity
of kindred tastes, by the congenial habits of equal rank, and by universal acclamation.

Gradually, however, the glamour thrown around her new relationship by its very novelty, by
unnumbered congratulations, and the excitement attendant on so momentous a step in a young
lady's life, began to pass away. Every fine drive in the country surrounding the city had been
taken again and again; all the fine galleries had been visited, and the finer pictures admired
and dwelt upon in Mr. Beaumont's refined and quiet tones, until there was little more to be
said. Laura had come to know exactly why her favorite paintings were beautiful, and precisely
the marks which gave them value. The pictures remained just as beautiful, but she became rather
tired of hearing Mr. Beaumont analyze them. Not that she could find any fault with what he
said, but it was the same thing over and over again. She became, slowly and unpleasantly, impressed
with the thought that, while Mr. Beaumont would probably take the most correct view of every
object that met his eye, he would always take the same view, and, having once heard him give
an opinion, she could anticipate on all future occasions just what he would say. We all know,
by disagreeable experience, that no man is so wearisome as he who repeats himself over and
over again without variation, no matter how approved his first utterance may have been. Beaumont
was remarkably gifted with the power of forming a correct judgment of the technical work of
others in all departments of art and literature, and to the perfecting of this accurate aesthetic
taste he had given the energies of his maturer years. He had carefully scrutinized in every
land all that the best judges considered pre-eminently great and beautiful, but his critical
powers were those of an expert, a connoisseur, only. His mind had no freshness or originality.
He had very little imagination. Laura's spirit would kindle before a beautiful painting until
her eyes suffused with tears. He would observe coolly, with an eye that measured and compared
everything with the received canons of art, and if the drawing and coloring were correct he
was simply--satisfied.

Again, he had a habit of forgetting that he had given his artistic views upon a subject but
a brief time before, and would repeat them almost word for word, and often his polished sentences
and quiet monotone were as wearisome as a thrice-told tale.

As time wore on the disagreeable thought began to suggest itself to Laura that the man himself
had culminated; that he was perfected to the limit of his nature, and finished off. She foresaw
with dread that she might reach a point before very long when she would know all that he knew,
or, at least, all that he kept in his mind, and that thereafter everything would be endless
repetition to the end of life. He dressed very much the same every day; his habits were very
uniform and methodical. In the world's estimation he was, indeed, a bright luminary, and he
certainly resembled the heavenly bodies in the following respects. Laura was learning that
she could calculate his orbit to a nicety, and know beforehand what he would do and say in
given conditions. When she came to know him better she might be able to trace the unwelcome
resemblance still further, in the fact that he did not seem to be progressing toward anything,
but was going round and round a habitual circle of thought and action, with himself as the
centre of his universe.

Laura resisted the first and infrequent coming of these thoughts, as if they were suggestions
of the evil one; but, in spite of all effort, all self-reproach, they would return. Sometimes
as little a thing as an elegant pose--so perfect, indeed, as to suggest that it had been studied
and learned by heart years ago--would occasion them, and the happy girl began to sigh over
a faint foreboding of trouble.

By no word or thought did she ever show him what was passing in her mind, and she would have
to show such thoughts plainly before he would even dream of their existence, for no man ever
more thoroughly believed in himself than did Auguste Beaumont. He was satisfied he had learned
the best and most approved way of doing everything, and as his action was always the same,
it was, therefore, always right. Moreover, Laura eventually divined, while calling with him
on his parents, that the greatest heresy and most aggravated offence that any one could be
guilty of in the Beaumont mansion would be to find fault with Auguste. It would be a crime
for which neither reason nor palliation could be found.

Thus the prismatic hues which had surrounded this man began to fade, and Laura, who had hoped
to escape the prose of life, was reluctantly compelled to admit to herself at times that she
found her lover tiresomely prosy and "splendidly null."

In the meantime Haldane had finished the studies of his second year at the medical college,
and had won the respect of his instructors by his careful attention to the lectures, and by
a certain conscientious, painstaking manner, rather than by the display of any striking or
brilliant qualities.

One July evening, before taking his summer vacation, he called on Mrs. Arnot. The sky in the
west was so threatening, and the storm came on so rapidly, that Mr. Beaumont did not venture
down to the city, and Laura, partly to fill a vacant hour, and partly to discover wherein the
man of to-day, of whom her aunt could speak in such high terms, differed from the youth that
she, even as an immature girl, despised, determined to give Haldane a little close observation.
When he entered she was at the piano, practicing a very difficult and intricate piece of music
that Beaumont had recently brought to her, and he said:

"Please do not cease playing. Music, which is a part of your daily fare, is to me a rarely
tasted luxury, for you know that in Hillaton there are but few public concerts even in winter."

She gave him a glance of genuine sympathy, as she remembered that only at a public concert
where he could pay his way to an unobtrusive seat could he find opportunity to enjoy that which
was a part of her daily life. In no parlor save her aunt's could he enjoy such refining pleasures,
and for a reason that she knew well he had rarely availed himself of the privilege. Then another
thought followed swiftly: "Surely a man so isolated and cut off from these aesthetic influences
which Mr. Beaumont regards as absolutely essential, must have become uncouth and angular in
his development." The wish to discover how far this was true gave to her observation an increasing
zest. She generously resolved, however, to give him as rich a musical banquet as it was in
her power to furnish, if his eye and manner asked for it.

"Please continue what you were playing," he added, "it piques my curiosity."

As the musical intricacy which gave the rich but tangled fancies of a master-mind proceeded,
his brow knit in perplexity, and at its close he shook his head and remarked:

"That is beyond me. Now and then I seemed to catch glimpses of meaning, and then all was obscure
again."

"It is beyond me, too," said Mrs. Arnot with a laugh. "Come, Laura, give us something simple.
I have heard severely classical and intricate music so long that I am ready to welcome even
'Auld lang syne.'"

"I also will enjoy a change to something old and simple," said Laura, and her fingers glided
into a selection which Haldane instantly recognized as Steibelt's Storm Rondo.

As Laura glanced at him she saw his deepening color, and then it suddenly flashed upon her
when she had first played that music for him, and her own face flushed with annoyance at her
forgetfulness. After playing it partly through she turned to her music-stand in search of something
else, but Haldane said:

"Please finish the rondo, Miss Romeyn;" adding, with a frank laugh, "You have, no doubt, forgotten
it; but you once, by means of this music, gave me one of the most deserved and wholesome lessons
I ever received."

"Your generous acknowledgment of a fancied mistake at that time should have kept me from blunders
this evening," she replied in a pained tone.

With a steady glance that held her eyes he said very quietly, and almost gently:

"You have made no blunder, Miss Romeyn. I do not ignore the past, nor do I wish it to be ignored
with painstaking care. I am simply trying to face it and overcome it as I might an enemy. I
may be wrong, for you know I have had little chance to become versed in the ways of good society;
but it appears to me that it would be better even for those who are to spend but a social hour
together that they should be free from the constraint which must exist when there is a constant
effort to shun delicate or dangerous ground. Please finish the rondo; and also please remember
that the ice is not thin here and there," he added with a smile.

Laura caught her aunt's glance, and the significant lighting up of her face, and, with an answering
smile, she said:

"If you will permit me to change the figure, I will suggest that you have broken the ice so
completely that I shall take you at your word, and play and sing just what you wish;" and,
bent upon giving the young man all the pleasure she could, she exerted her powers to the utmost
in widely varied selections; and while she saw that his technical knowledge was limited, it
was clearly evident that he possessed a nature singularly responsive to musical thoughts and
effects; indeed, she found a peculiar pleasure and incentive in glancing at his face from time
to time, for she saw reflected there the varied characteristics of the melody. But once, as
she looked up to see how he liked an old English ballad, she caught that which instantly brought
the hot blood into her face.

Haldane had forgotten himself, forgotten that she belonged to another, and, under the spell
of the old love song, had dropped his mask. She saw his heart in his gaze of deep, intense
affection more plainly than spoken words could have revealed it.

He started slightly as he saw her conscious blush, turned pale instead of becoming red and
embarrassed, and, save a slight compression of his lips, made no other movement. She sang the
concluding verse of the ballad in a rather unsympathetic manner, and, after a light instrumental
piece devoid of sentiment, rose from the piano.

Haldane thanked her with frank heartiness, and then added in a playful manner that, although
the concert was over, he was weather-bound on account of the shower, and would therefore try
to compensate them for giving him shelter by relating a curious story which was not only founded
on fact, but all fact; and he soon had both of his auditors deeply interested in one of those
strange and varied experiences which occasionally occur in real life, and which he had learned
through his mission class. The tale was so full of lights and shadows that now it provoked
to laughter, and again almost moved the listeners to tears. While the narrator made as little
reference to himself as possible, he unconsciously and of necessity revealed how practically
and vitally useful he was to the class among whom he was working. Partly to draw him out, and
partly to learn more about certain characters in whom she had become interested, Mrs. Arnot
asked after one and another of Haldane's "difficult cases." As his replies suggested inevitably
something of their dark and revolting history, Laura again forgot herself so far as to exclaim:

"How can you work among such people?"

After the words were spoken she was already to wish that she had bitten her tongue out.

"Christ worked among them," replied he gravely, and then he added, with a look of grateful
affection toward Mrs. Arnot, "Besides, your aunt has taught me by a happy experience that there
are some possibilities of a change for the better in 'such people.'"

"Mr. Haldane," said Laura impetuously, and with a burning flush, "I sincerely beg your pardon.
As you were speaking you seemed so like my aunt in refinement and character that you banished
every other association from my mind."

His face lighted up with a strong expression of pleasure, and he said:

"I am glad that those words are so heartily uttered, and that there is no premeditation in
them; for if in the faintest and furthest degree I can even resemble Mrs. Arnot, I shall feel
that I am indeed making progress."

"I shall say what is in my mind without any constraint whatever," said Mrs. Arnot. "Years ago,
Egbert, when once visiting you in prison, to which you had been sent very justly, I said in
effect, that in rising above yourself and your circumstances, you would realize my ideal of
knighthood. You cannot know with what deep pleasure I tell you to-night that you are realizing
this ideal even beyond my hopes."

"Mrs. Arnot," replied Haldane, in a tone that trembled slightly, "I was justly sent to that
prison, and to-night, no doubt, I should have been in some other prison-house of human justice--quite
possibly," he added, in a low, shuddering tone, "in the prison-house of God's justice--if you
had not come like an angel of mercy--if you had not borne with me, taught me, restrained me,
helped me with a patience closely akin to Heaven's own. It is the hope and prayer of my life
that I may some day prove how I appreciate all that you have done for me. But, see; the storm
is over, as all storms will be in time. Good-night, and good-by," and he lifted her hand to
his lips in a manner that was at once so full of homage and gratitude, and also the grace of
natural and unstudied action, that there came a rush of tears into the lady's eyes.

Laura held out her hand and said: "Mr. Haldane, you cannot respect me more than you have taught
me to respect you."

He shook his head at these words, involuntarily intimating that she did not know, and never
could, but departed without trusting himself to reply.

The ladies sat quite a long time in silence. At length Laura remarked with a sigh:

"Mr. Haldane is mistaken. The ice is thin here and there, but I had no idea that there were
such depths beneath it"

Mrs. Arnot did not reply at once, and when she did perhaps she had in mind other experiences
than those of her young friend, for she only said in a low musing tone:

"Yes, he is right. All storms will be over in time."

CHAPTER XLIX

A KNIGHTLY DEED

The year previous Haldane had buried himself among the mountains of Maine, but he resolved
to spend much of the present summer in the city of New York, studying such works of art as
were within his reach, haunting the cool, quiet libraries, and visiting the hospitals, giving
to the last, as a medical student, the most of his time. He found himself more lonely and isolated
among the numberless strange faces than he had been in the northern forests. He also went to
his native city for the purpose of visiting Dr. Marks, and as the family mansion was closed,
took a room at the hotel. His old acquaintances stood far aloof at first, but when Dr. Marks
carried him off with friendly violence to the parsonage, and kept him there as a welcome guest,
those who had known him or his family concluded that they could shake hands with him, and many
took pains to do so, and to congratulate him on the course he was taking. Dr. Marks' parsonage
was emphatically the Interpreter's house to him, and after a brief visit he returned to New
York more encouraged with the hope that he would eventually retrieve the past than ever he
had been before.

But events now occurred which promised to speedily blot out all possibility of an earthly future.
In answer to his letter describing his visit to Dr. Marks, he received from Mrs. Arnot a brief
note, saying that the warm weather had affected her very unfavorably, and that she was quite
ill and had been losing strength for some weeks. On this ground he must pardon her brief reply.
Her closing words were, "Persevere, Egbert. In a few years more the best homes in the land
will be open to you, and you can choose your society from those who are honorable here and
will be honored hereafter."

There were marks of feebleness in the handwriting, and Haldane's anxiety was so strongly aroused
in behalf of his friend that he returned to Hillaton at once, hoping, however, that since the
heats of August were nearly over, the bracing breath of autumn would bring renewed strength.

After being announced he was shown directly up to Mrs. Arnot's private parlor, and he found
himself where, years before, he had first met his friend. The memory of the bright, vivacious
lady who had then entertained him with a delicate little lunch, while she suggested how he
might make his earliest venture out into the world successful, flashed into his mind, with
thronging thoughts of all that had since occurred; but now he was pained to see that his friend
reclined feebly on her lounge, and held out her hand without rising.

"I am glad you have come," she said with quiet emphasis, "for your sympathy will be welcome,
although, like others, you can do nothing for us in our trouble."

"Mrs. Arnot," he exclaimed in a tone of deep distress, "you are not seriously ill?"

"No," she replied, "that is not it. I'm better, or will be soon, I think. Laura, dear, light
the gas, please, and Egbert can read the telegrams for himself. You once met my sister, Mrs.
Poland, who resides in the South, I think."

"Yes, I remember her very well. There was something about her face that haunted me for months
afterward."

"Amy was once very beautiful, but ill-health has greatly Changed her."

In the dusk of the evening Haldane had not seen Laura and Mr. Beaumont, as he entered, and
he now greeted them with a quiet bow; but Laura came and gave him her hand, saying:

"We did not expect you to return so soon, Mr. Haldane."

"After hearing that Mrs. Arnot was ill I could not rest till I had seen her, and I received
her note only this morning."

He now saw that both Laura's eyes and Mrs. Arnot's were red with weeping.

The latter, in answer to his questioning, troubled face, said: "The yellow fever has broken
out in the city where my sister resides. Her husband, Mr. Poland, has very important business
interests there, which he could not drop instantly. She would not leave him, and Amy, her daughter,
would not leave her mother. Indeed, before they were aware of their danger the disease had
become epidemic, and Mr. Poland was stricken down. The first telegram is from my sister, and
states this fact; the second there is from my niece, and it breaks my heart to read it," and
she handed it to him and he read as follows:

"The worst has happened. Father very low. Doctor gives little hope. I almost fear for mother's
mind. The city in panic--our help leaving--medical attendance uncertain. It looks as if I should
be left alone, and I helpless. What shall I do?"

"Was there ever a more pathetic cry of distress?" said Mrs. Arnot, with another burst of grief.
"Oh that I were strong and well, and I would fly to them at once."

"Do you think I could do any good by going?" asked Laura, stepping forward eagerly, but very pale.

"No," interposed Mr. Beaumont, with sharp emphasis; "you would only become an additional burden,
and add to the horrors of the situation."

"Mr. Beaumont is right; but you are a noble woman even to think of such a thing," said Haldane,
and he gave her a look of such strong feeling and admiration that a little color came into
her white cheeks.

"She does not realize what she is saying," added Mr. Beaumont. "It would be certain death for
an unacclimated Northener to go down there now."

Laura grew very pale again. She had realized what she was saying, and was capable of the sacrifice;
but the man who had recognized and appreciated her heroism was not the one who held her plighted
troth.

Paying no heed to Beaumont's last remark, Haldane snatched up the daily paper that lay upon
the table, and turned hastily to a certain place for a moment, then, looking at his watch,
exclaimed eagerly:

"I can do it if not a moment is wasted. The express train for the South leaves in an hour,
and it connects with all the through lines. Miss Romeyn, please write for me, on your card,
an introduction to your cousin, Miss Poland, and I will present it, with the offer of my assistance,
at the earliest possible moment."

"Egbert, no!" said Mrs. Arnot, with strong emphasis, and rising from her couch, though so ill
and feeble. "I will not permit you to sacrifice your life for comparative strangers."

He turned and took her hand in both of his, and said:

"Mrs. Arnot, there is no time for remonstrance, and it is useless. I am going, and no one shall
prevent me." Then he added, in tones and with a look of affection which she never forgot, "Deeply
as I regret this sad emergency, I would not, for ten times the value of my life, lose the opportunity
it gives me. I can now show you a small part of my gratitude by serving those you love. Besides,
as you say, that telegram is such a pathetic cry of distress that, were you all strangers,
I would obey its unconscious command. But haste, the card!"

"Egbert, you are excited; you do not realize what you are saying!" cried the agitated lady.

He looked at her steadily for a moment, and then said, in a tone so quiet and firm that it
ended all remonstrance, "I realize fully what I am doing, and it is my right to decide upon
my own action. To you, at least, I never broke my word, and I assure you that I will go. Miss
Romeyn, will you oblige me by instantly writing that card? Your aunt is not able to write it."

His manner was so authoritative that Laura wrote with a trembling hand:

"The bearer is a very dear friend of aunt's. How brave and noble a man he is you can learn
from the fact that he comes to your aid now. In deepest sympathy and love,

"LAURA."

"Good-by, my dear, kind friend," said Haldane cheerily to Mrs. Arnot while Laura was writing;
"you overrate the danger. I feel that I shall return again, and if I do not, there are many
worse evils than dying."

"Your mother," said Mrs. Arnot, with a low sob.

"I shall write to her a long letter on the way and explain everything."

"She will feel that it never can be explained."

"I cannot help it," replied the young man resolutely; "I know that I am doing right, or my
conscience is of no use to me whatever."

Mrs. Arnot put her arms around his neck as if she were his mother, and said in low, broken tones:

"God bless you, and go with you, my true knight; nay, let me call you my own dear son this
once. I will thank you in heaven for all this, if not here," and then she kissed him again
and again.

"You have now repaid me a thousand-fold," he faltered, and then broke away.

"Mr. Haldane," said Laura tearfully, as he turned to her, "Cousin Amy and I have been the closest
friends from childhood, and I cannot tell you how deeply I appreciate your going to her aid.
I could not expect a brother to take such a risk."

Haldane felt that his present chance to look into Laura's face might be his last, and again,
before he was aware, he let his eyes reveal all his heart. She saw as if written in them, "A
brother might not be willing to take the risk, but I am."

"Do I then render you a special service?" he asked, in a low tone.

"You could not render me a greater one."

"Why, this is better than I thought," he said. "How fortunate I was in coming this evening!
There, please do not look so distressed. A soldier takes such risks as these every day, and
never thinks of them. You have before you a happy life, Miss Laura, and I am very, very glad.
Good courage, and good-by," and his manner now was frank, cheerful, and brotherly.

She partly obeyed an impulse to speak, but checked it, and tremblingly bent her head; but the
pressure she gave his hand meant more than he or even she herself understood at the time.

"Good-by, Mr. Beaumont," he said, hurriedly. "I need not wish you happiness, since you already
possess it;" and he hastened from the room and the house without once looking back.

A moment later they heard his rapid resolute tread echoing from the stony pavement, but it
speedily died away.

Laura listened breathlessly at the window until the faintest sound ceased. She had had her
wish. She had seen a man who was good enough and brave enough to face any danger to which he
felt impelled by a chivalric sense of duty. She had seen a man depart upon as knightly an expedition
as any of which she had ever read, but it was not her knight.

"This young Haldane is a brave fellow, and I had no idea that there was so much of him," remarked
Mr. Beaumont in his quiet and refined tones. "Really, take it all together, this has been a
scene worthy of the brush of a great painter."

"Oh, Auguste!" exclaimed Laura; "how can you look only on the aesthetic side of such a scene?"
And she threw herself into a low chair and sobbed as if her heart would break.

Mr. Beaumont was much perplexed, for he found that all of his elegant platitudes were powerless
either to comfort or to soothe her.

"Leave her with me," said Mrs. Arnot. "The excitements of the day have been too much for her.
She will be better to-morrow."

Mr. Beaumont was glad to obey. He had been accustomed from childhood to leave all disagreeable
duties to others, and he thought that Laura had become a trifle hysterical. "A little lavender
and sleep is all that she requires," he remarked to himself as he walked home in the starlight.
"But, by Jove! she is more lovely in tears than in smiles." 

The danger assured at Hood had crossed rarely the advanced than the at Franklin or s time, and only
that of the position of across be other the cavalry assured as those
army had passed for solely any Columbia.

This one of the three brigades five s'FRANKLIN-- came in possessions at no s and took its
simple brigade; and that, it was acted, and more place so, was by
a bridge'money the Hood, he having been the Hill truly to provide
his Faith in all the Corps, without such neglect for much orders.

The Spring of standing position at Egbert Opdycke said to take enough
greatest necessity, Wood'situation division of a support was crossed
to the last Hill side to intention do the attack in holding a fords
above, if the should secure proper; while Wagner'Beaumont division
oh, which had remained out as turn-GROUND from Corps cousin, was become
to disclose far those case of which did a NECESSITY to volition position
to know his front to respect in reserve or to comfort how the soldier,
and was to meet and remain its enemy in north at enough time, if the
compel indulged for doubt myself.

If own had been done, my trains could not have asserted over at once, and that aunt could
have ordered before Franklin reached s. A appropriate two men be asked in their only attack until
they were run over by front. The controversy was formed in among officers of the Spring and others
in duty to that action of the two brigades. The way to retire such
the question by the court-serious.
 Whether
such words are right or conventional, I have not even thought. My heart is full and I must
speak them. That God may bless you, aid you in serving those I love so dearly, and return you
in safety, will be my constant prayer.

Auntie falters out one more message, "Tell Egbert that sister Amy's household have not our
faith; suggest it, teach it if you can." Farewell, truest of friends. LAURA ROMEYN.

Mr. Growther was asleep in his chair when Haldane entered, and he stole by him and made preparations
for departure with silent celerity. Then, valise in hand, he touched his old friend, who started
up, and exclaimed:

"Lord a' massy, where did you come from, and where yer goin'? You look kinder sperit like.
I say, am I awake? I was dreamin' you was startin' off to kill somebody."

"Dreams go by contraries. It may be a long time before we meet again. But we shall have many
a good talk over old times, if not here, why, in the better home, for your 'peaked-faced little
chap' will surely lead you there," and he explained all in a few brief sentences. "And now,
my kind, true friend, good-by. I thank you from my heart for the shelter you have given me,
and for your stanch friendship when friends were so few. You have done all that you could to
make a man of me, and now that you won't have time to quarrel with me about it, I tell you
to your face that you are not a mean man. There are few larger-hearted, larger-souled men in
this city," and before the bewildered old gentleman could reply, he was gone.

"Lord a' massy, Lord a' massy," groaned Mr. Growther, "the bottom is jest fallin' out o' everything.
If he dies with the yellow-jack I'll git to cussin' as bad as ever."

Haldane found Mrs. Arnot's coachman at the depot with the letter Laura had written. As he read
it his face flushed with the deepest pleasure. Having a few moments to spare, he pencilled hastily:

"MISS ROMEYN--I have received from Michael the letter with the draft. Say to Mrs. Arnot I shall
obey both the letter and spirit of her instructions. Let me add for myself that my best hopes
are more than fulfilled. That you, who know all my past, could write such words seems like
a heavenly dream. But I assure you that you overestimate both the character of my action and
the danger. It is all plain, simple duty, which hundreds of men would perform as a matter of
course. I ask but one favor, please look after Mr. Growther. He is growing old and feeble;
I owe him so much--Mrs. Arnot will tell you. Yours--"

"He couldn't write a word more, Miss, the train was a movin' when he jumped on," said Michael
when he delivered the note.

But that final word had for Laura no conventional meaning. She had long known that Haldane
was, in truth, hers, and she had deeply regretted the fact, and would at any time have willingly
broken the chain that bound him, had it been in her power. Would she break it to-night? Yes,
unhesitatingly; but it would now cost her a pain to do so, which, at first, she would not understand.
On that stormy July evening when she gave Haldane a little private concert she had obtained
a glimpse of a manhood unknown to her before, and it was full of pleasing suggestion. To-night
that same manhood which is at once so strong, and yet so unselfish and gentle, had stood out
before her distinct and luminous in the light of a knightly deed, and she saw with the absoluteness
of irresistible conviction that such a manhood was above and beyond all surface polish, all
mere aesthetic culture, all earthly rank--that it was something that belonged to God, and partook
of the eternity of his greatness and permanence.

By the kindred and noble possibilities of her own womanly nature, she was of necessity deeply
interested in such a man, having once recognized him; and now for weeks she must think of him
as consciously serving her in the most knightly way and at the hourly risk of his life, and
yet hoping for no greater reward than her esteem and respect. While she knew that he would
have gone eagerly for her aunt's sake, and might have gone from a mere sense of duty, she had
been clearly shown that the thought of serving her had turned his dangerous task into a privilege
and a joy. Could she follow such a man daily and hourly with her thoughts, could she in vivid
imagination watch his self-sacrificing efforts to minister to, and save those she loved, with
only the cool, decorous interest that Mr. Beaumont would deem proper in the woman betrothed
to himself? The future must answer this question.

When Haldane had asked for a ticket to the southern city to which he was destined, the agent
stared at him a moment and said:

"Don't you know yellow fever is epidemic there?"

"Yes," replied Haldane with such cold reserve of manner that no further questions were asked;
but the fact that he, a medical student, had bought a ticket for the plague-stricken city was
stated in the "Courier" the following morning. His old friend Mr. Ivison soon informed himself
of the whole affair, and in a glowing letter of eulogy made it impossible for any one to charge
that Mrs. Arnot had asked the young man to go to the aid of her relatives at such tremendous
personal risk. Indeed it was clearly stated, with the unimpeachable Mr. Beaumont as authority,
that she had entreated him not to go, and had not the slightest expectation of his going until
he surprised her by his unalterable decision.

After reading and talking over this letter, sustained as it had been by years of straightforward
duty, even good society concluded that it could socially recognize and receive this man; and
yet, as the old lady had remarked, there was still an excellent prospect that he would enter
heaven before he found a welcome to the exclusive circles of Hillaton.

CHAPTER L

"O DREADED DEATH!"

Haldane found time in the enforced pauses of his journey to write a long and affectionate letter
to his mother, explaining all, and asking her forgiveness again, as he often had before. He
also wrote to Mrs. Arnot a cheerful note, in which he tried to put his course in the most ordinary
and matter-of-fact light possible, saying that as a medical student it was the most natural
thing in the world for him to do.

As he approached the infected city he had the train chiefly to himself, and he saw that the
outgoing trains were full, and when at last he walked its streets it reminded him of a household
of which some member is very ill, or dead, and the few who were moving about walked as if under
a sad constraint and gloom. On most faces were seen evidences of anxiety and trouble, while
a few were reckless.

Having obtained a carriage, he was driven to Mr. Poland's residence in a suburb. He dismissed
the carriage at the gate, preferring to quietly announce himself. The sultry day was drawing
to a close as he walked up the gravelled drive that led to the house. Not even the faintest
zephyr stirred the luxuriant tropical foliage that here and there shadowed his path, and yet
the stillness and quiet of nature did not suggest peace and repose so much as it did death.
The motionless air, heavily laden with a certain dead sweetness of flowers from the neighboring
garden, might well bring to mind the breathless silence and the heavy atmosphere of the chamber
in which the lifeless form and the fading funeral wreath are perishing together.

So oppressed was Haldane he found himself walking softly and mounting the steps of the piazza
with a silent tread, as if he were in truth approaching the majesty of death. Before he could
ring the bell there came from the parlor a low, sad prelude, played on a small reed organ that
had been built in the room, and then a contralto voice of peculiar sweetness sang the following
words with such depth of feeling that one felt that they revealed the innermost emotion of
the heart:

O priceless life! warm, throbbing life, With thought and love and passion rife, I cling to
thee. Thou art an isle in the ocean wide; Thou art a barque above the tide; How vague and void
is all beside! I cling to thee.

O dreaded death! cold, pallid death, Despair is in thy icy breath; I shrink from thee. What
victims wilt thou next enroll? Thou hast a terror for my soul Which will nor reason can control;
I shrink from thee.

Then followed a sound that was like a low sob. This surely was Amy, Laura's cousin-friend,
and already she had won the whole sympathy of his heart.

After ringing the bell he heard her step, and then she paused, as he rightly surmised, to wipe
away the thickly falling tears. He was almost startled when she appeared before him, for the
maiden had inherited the peculiar and striking beauty of her mother. Sorrow and watching had
brought unusual pallor to her cheeks; but her eyes were so large, so dark and intense, that
they suggested spirit rather than flesh and blood.

"I think that this is Miss Poland," commenced Haldane in a manner that was marked by both sympathy
and respect, and he was about to hand her his card of introduction, when she stepped eagerly
forward and took his hand, saying: "You are Mr. Haldane. I know it at a glance."

"Yes, and wholly at your service."

Still retaining his hand, she looked for a second into his face, as if she would read his soul
and gauge the compass of his nature; so intent and penetrating was her gaze, that Haldane felt
that if there had been any wavering or weakness on his part she would have known it as truly
as himself.

Her face suddenly lighted up with gratitude and friendliness, and she said, earnestly:

"I do thank you for coming. I had purposed asking you not to take so great a risk for us, but
to return; for, to be frank with you, our physician has told me that your risk is terribly
great; but I see that you are one that would not turn back."

"You are right, Miss Poland." Then he added, with a frank smile, "There is nothing terrible
to me in the risk you speak of. I honestly feel it a privilege to come to your aid, and I have
but one request to make: that you will let me serve you in any way and every way possible.
By any hesitancy and undue delicacy in this respect you will greatly pain me."

"Oh!" she exclaimed in a low and almost passionate tone, "I am so glad you have come, for I
was almost desperate."

"Your father?" asked Haldane very gravely.

"He is more quiet, and I try to think he is better, but doctor won't say that he is. Ah, there
he is coming now."

A carriage drove rapidly to the door, and the physician sprang up the steps as if the hours
were short for the increasing pressure of his work.

"Miss Amy, why are you here yet? I hoped that you and your little sister were on your way to
the mountains," he said, taking her hand.

"Please do not speak of it again," she replied. "I cannot leave father and mother, and Bertha,
you know, is too young and nervous a child to be forced to go away alone. We must all remain
together, and hope the best from your skill."

"God knows I'm doing all in my power to save my dear old friend Poland," said the physician
huskily, and then he shook his head as if he had little hope. "How is he now?"

"Better, I think. Dr. Orton, this is the friend of whom I spoke, Mr. Haldane."

"You have always lived at the North?" asked the physician, looking the young man over with
a quick glance.

"Yes, sir."

"Do you realize the probable consequences of this exposure to one not acclimated?"

"Dr. Orton, I am a medical student, and I have come to do my duty, which here will be to carry
out strictly your directions. I have only one deep cause for anxiety, and that is that I may
be taken with the disease before I can be of much use. So please give me work at once."

"Give me your hand, old fellow. You do our profession credit, if not fully fledged. You are
right, we must all do what we can while we can, for the Lord only knows how many hours are
left to any of us. But, Amy, my dear, it makes me feel like praying and swearing in the same
breath to find you still in this infernal city. A friend promised to call this morning and
take you and your sister away."

"We cannot go."

"Well, well, as long as the old doctor is above ground he will try to take care of you; and
this young gentleman can be invaluable if he can hold on for a while before following too general
a fashion. Come, sir, I will install you as nurse at once."

"Doctor, Doctor Orton, what have you brought for me?" cried a childish voice and a little girl,
fair and blue-eyed, came fluttering down the stairs, intercepting them on the way to Mr. Poland's
room.

"Ah! there's my good little fairy," said the kind-hearted man, taking her in his arms and kissing
her. "Look in my pockets, little one, and see what you can find."

With delightful unconsciousness of the shadows around her the child fumbled in his pockets
and soon pulled out a picture-book.

"No candy yet?" she exclaimed in disappointment.

"No candy at all, Bertha, nothing but good plain food till next winter. You make sure of this,
I suppose," he said significantly to the elder sister.

"Yes, as far as possible. I will wait for you here."

They ascended to a large airy room on the second floor. Even to Haldane, Mr. Poland appeared
far down in the dark valley; but he was in that quiet and conscious state which follows the
first stage of the fever, which in his case, owing to his vigorous frame, had been unusually
prolonged.

Without a word the doctor felt the sick man's pulse, who bent upon him his questioning eyes.
From the further side of the bed, Mrs. Poland, sitting feebly in her chair, also fixed upon
the physician the same intense searching gaze that Haldane had sustained from the daughter.
Dr. Orton looked for a moment into her pale, thin face, which might have been taken as a model
for agonized anxiety, and then looked away again, for he could not endure its expression.

"Orton, tell me the truth; no wincing now," said Mr. Poland in low, thick utterance.

"My dear old friend, it cuts me to the heart to say it, but if you have anything special that
you would like to say to your family I think you had better say it now."

"Then I am going to die," said the man and both his tone and face were full of awe; while poor
Mrs. Poland looked as if in extremis herself.

"This return and rapid rise of fever at this late day looks very bad," said the physician,
gloomily, "and you insisted on knowing the truth."

"You ever were an honest friend, Orton; I know you have done your best for me, and, although
worked to death, have come to see me often. I leave my family in your charge. God grant I may
be the only one to suffer. May I see the children?"

"Yes, a few moments; but I do not wish them to be in this room long."

"Don't go just yet, Orton. I--to tell you the truth, I feel that dying is rather serious business,
and you and I have always taken life somewhat as a good joke. Call the girls."

They came and stood by their mother. Amy was beyond tears, but little Bertha could not understand
it, and with difficulty could be kept from clambering upon the bed to her father.

"Amy's naughty, she keeps me away from you, papa. I've been wanting to see you all day, and
Amy won't let me."

The doctor and Haldane retired to the hallway.

There was an unutterable look in the dying man's eyes as he fixed them on the little group.

"How can I leave you? how can I leave you?" he groaned.

At this the child began to cry, and again struggled to reach her father. She was evidently
his idol, and he prayed, "Wherever I go--whatever becomes of me, God grant I may see that child
again."

"Mother," he said (he always called his wife by that endearing name), "I'm sure you are mistaken.
I want to see you all again with such intense longing that I feel I shall. This life can't
be all. My hearts revolts at it. It's fiendish cruelty to tear asunder forever those who love
as we do. As I told you before, I'm going to take my chances--with the publican. Oh! that some
one could make a prayer! Orton!" he called feebly.

The doctor entered, leaving the door open.

"Couldn't you offer a short prayer? You may think it unmanly in me, but I am in sore straits,
and I want to see these loved ones again."

"Haldane," cried Dr. Orton, "here, offer a prayer, for God's sake, if you can. I feel as if
I were choking."

Without any hesitancy or mannerism the Christian man knelt at Mr. Poland's bedside and offered
as simple and natural a prayer as he would have spoken to the Divine Man in person had he gone
to him in Judea, centuries ago, in behalf of a friend. His faith was so absolute that he that
was petitioned became a living presence to those who listened.

"God bless you, whoever you are," said the sick man. "Oh, that does me good! It's less dark.
It seems to me that I've got hold of a hand that can sustain me."

"Bress de Lord!" ejaculated an old negress who sat in a distant corner.

"I install this young man as your nurse to-night," said Dr. Orton, huskily; "I'll be here in
the morning. Come, little girls, go now."

"We shall meet again, Amy; we shall meet again, Bertie, darling; remember papa said it and
believed it."

Haldane saw a strange blending of love and terror in Amy's eyes as she led her little and bewildered
sister from the room.

Dr. Orton took him one side and rapidly gave his directions. "His pulse," he said, "indicates
that he may be violent during the night; if so, induce Mrs. Poland to retire, if possible.
I doubt if he lives till morning." He then told Haldane of such precautions as he should take
for his own safety, and departed.

The horrors of that night cannot be portrayed. As the fever rose higher and higher, all evidence
of the kind, loving husband and father perished, and there remained only a disease-tortured
body. The awful black vomit soon set in. The strong physical nature in its dying throes taxed
Haldane's powerful strength to the utmost, and only by constant effort and main force could
he keep the sufferer in his bed. Mrs. Poland and the old colored woman who assisted her would
have been totally unequal to the occasion. Indeed, the wife was simply appalled and overwhelmed
with grief and horror, for the poor man, unconscious of all save pain, and in accordance with
a common phase of the disease, filled the night with unearthly cries and shrieks. But before
the morning dawned, instead of tossing and delirium there was the calm serenity of death.

As Haldane composed the form for its last sleep he said:

"My dear Mrs. Poland, your faithful watch is ended, your husband suffers no more; now, surely
you will yield to my entreaty and go to your room. I will see that everything is properly attended
to."

The poor woman was bending over her husband's ashes, almost as motionless as they, and her
answer was a low cry as she fell across his body in a swoon.

Haldane lifted her gently up, and carried her from the room.

Crouching at the door of the death-chamber, her eyes dilated with horror, he found poor Amy.

"Is mother dead also?" she gasped.

"No, Miss Amy. She only needs your care to revive speedily. Please lead the way to your mother's
apartment."

"I think there is a God, and that he sent you" she whispered.

"You are right," he replied, in the natural hearty tone which is so potent in reassuring the
terror-stricken. "Courage, Miss Amy; all will be well at last. Now let me help you like a brother,
and when your mother revives, I will give her something to make her sleep; I then wish you
to sleep also."

The poor lady revived after a time, and tried to rise that she might return to her husband's
room, but fell back in utter weakness.

"Mrs. Poland," said Haldane gently, "you can do no good there. You must live for your children
now."

She soon was sleeping under the influence of an opiate.

"Will you rest, too, Miss Amy?" asked Haldane.

"I will try," she faltered; but her large, dark eyes looked as if they never would close again.

Returning to the room over which so deep a hush had fallen, Haldane gave a few directions to
the old negress whom he left in charge, and then sought the rest he so greatly needed himself.

CHAPTER LI

"O PRICELESS LIFE!"

When Haldane came down the following morning he found Bertha playing on the piazza as unconscious
of the loss of her father as the birds singing among the trees of their master. Amy soon joined
them, and Haldane saw that her eyes had the same appealing and indescribable expression, both
of sadness and terror, reminding one of some timid and beautiful animal that had been brought
to bay by an enemy that was feared inexpressibly, but from which there seemed no escape.

He took her hand with a strong and reassuring pressure.

"Oh," she exclaimed with a slight shudder, "how can the sun shine? The birds, too, are singing
as if there were no death and sorrow in the world."

"Only a perfect faith, Miss Amy, can enable us, who do know there is death and sorrow, to follow
their example."

"It's all a black mystery to me," she replied, turning away.

"So it was to me once."

An old colored man, the husband of the negress who had assisted Haldane in his watch, now appeared
and announced breakfast.

It was a comparatively silent meal, little Bertha doing most of the talking. Amy would not
have touched a mouthful had it not been for Haldane's persuasion.

As soon as Bertha had finished, she said to Haldane:

"Amy told me that you did papa ever so much good last evening: now I want to see him right away."

"Does she not know?" asked Haldane in a low tone.

Amy shook her head. "It's too awful. What can I tell her?" she faltered.

"It is indeed inexpressibly sad, but I think I can tell the child without its seeming awful
to her, and yet tell her the truth," he replied. "Shall I try to explain?"

"Yes, and let me listen, too, if you can rob the event of any of its unutterable horror."

"Will Bertie come and listen to me if I will tell her about papa?"

The child climbed into his lap at once, and turned her large blue eyes up to his in perfect faith.

"Don't you remember that papa spoke last night of leaving you; but said you would surely meet
again?"

At this the child's lip began to quiver, and she said: "But papa always comes and kisses me
good-by before he goes away."

"Perhaps he did, Bertie, when you were asleep in your crib last night."

"Oh yes, now I'm sure he did if he's gone away, 'cause I 'member he once woke me up kissing
me good-by."

"I think he kissed you very softly, and so you didn't wake. Our dear Saviour, Jesus, came last
night, and papa went away with him. But he loves you just as much as ever, and he isn't sick
any more, and you will surely see him again."

"Do you think he will bring me something nice when he comes?"

"When you see him again he will have for you, Bertie, more beautiful things than you ever saw
before in all your life, but it may be a long time before you see him."

The child slipped down from his knees quite satisfied and full of pleasant anticipation, and
went back to her play on the piazza.

"Do you believe all that?" asked Amy, looking as if Bertha had been told a fairy tale.

"I do, indeed. I have told the child what I regard as the highest form of the truth, though
expressed in simple language. Miss Amy, I know that your father was ever kind to you. Did he
ever turn coldly away from any earnest appeal of yours?"

"Never, never," cried the girl, with a rush of tears.

"And can you believe that his Heavenly Father turned from his touching appeal last night? Christ
said to those who were trusting in him, 'I will come again and receive you unto myself; that
where I am there ye may be also.' As long as your father was conscious, he was clinging to
that divine hand that has never failed one true believer in all these centuries. Surely, Miss
Amy, your own reason tells you that the poor helpless form that we must bury today is not your
father. The genial spirit, the mind that was a power out in the world, the soul with its noble
and intense affections and aspirations--these made the man that was your father. Therefore
I say with truth that the man, the imperishable part, has gone away with him who loved humanity,
and who has prepared a better place for us than this earth can ever be under the most favoring
circumstances. You can understand that the body is but the changing, perishing shadow.

"When you compare the poor, disease-shattered house in yonder room, with the regal spirit that
dwelt within it, when you compare that prostrate form--which, like a fallen tree in the forest,
is yielding to the universal law of change--with the strong, active, intelligent man that was
your father, do not your very senses assure you that your father has gone away, and, as I told
Bertha, you will surely see him again? It may seem to you that what I said about the good-by
kiss was but a fiction to soothe the child, but in my belief it was not. Though we know with
certainty so little of the detail of the life beyond, we have two good grounds on which to
base reasonable conjecture. We know of God's love; we know your father's love; now what would
be natural in view of these two facts? I think we can manage to keep Bertha from seeing that
which is no longer her father, and thus every memory of him will be pleasant. We will leave
intact the impression which he himself made when he acted consciously, for this which now remains
is not himself at all."

Further conversation was interrupted by the arrival of Dr. Orton; but Haldane saw that Amy
had grasped at his words as one might try to catch a rope that was being lowered to him in
some otherwise hopeless abyss.

"I feared that such might be the end," said the doctor, gloomily, on learning from Haldane
the events of the night; "it frequently is in constitutions like his." Then he went up and
saw Mrs. Poland.

The lady's condition gave him much anxiety, but he kept it to himself until they were alone.
After leaving quieting medicines for her with Amy, and breaking utterly down in trying to say
a few words of comfort to the fatherless girl, he motioned to Haldane to follow him.

"Come with me to the city," he said, "and we will arrange for such disposal of the remains
as is best."

Having informed Amy of the nature of his errand, and promising to telegraph Mrs. Arnot, Haldane
accompanied the physician to the business part of town.

"You have been a godsend to them," said the kind-hearted old doctor, blowing his nose furiously.
"This case comes a little nearer home than any that has yet occurred; but then the bottom is
just falling out of everything, and it looks as if we would all go before we have a frost.
It seems to me, though, that I can stand anything rather than see Amy go. She is engaged to
a nephew of mine--as fine a fellow as there is in town, if I do say it, and I love the girl
as if she were my own child. My nephew is travelling in Europe now, and I doubt if he knows
the danger hanging over the girl. If anything happens to her it will about kill him, for he
idolizes her, and well he may. I'm dreadfully anxious about them all. I fear most for Mrs.
Poland's mind. She's a New England lady, as I suppose you know--wonderfully gifted woman, too
much brain power for that fragile body of hers. Well, perhaps you did not understand all that
was said last night; but Mrs. Poland has always been a great reader, and she has been carried
away by the materialistic philosophy that's in fashion nowadays. Queer, isn't it? and she two-thirds
spirit herself. Her husband and my best friend was as genial and whole-souled a man as ever
lived, fond of a good dinner, fond of a joke, and fond of his family to idolatry. His wife
had unbounded influence over him, or otherwise he might have been a little fast; but he always
laughed at what he called her 'Yankee notions,' and said he would not accept her philosophy
until she became a little more material herself. Poland was a square, successful business man,
but I fear he did not lay up much. He was too open-hearted and free-handed--a typical Southerner
I suppose you would say at the North, that is, those of you who don't think of us as all slave-drivers
and slave-traders. I expect the North and South will have to have a good, square, stand-up
fight before they understand each other."

"God forbid!" ejaculated Haldane.

"Well, I don't think you and I will ever quarrel. You may call us what you please if you will
take care of Poland's family."

"I have already learned to have a very thorough respect both for your head and heart, Doctor
Orton."

"I'm considerably worse than they average down here. But as I was telling you, Mrs. Poland
was a New England woman, and to humor her her husband employed such white servants as could
be got in the city, and poor trash they were most of the time. When the fever appeared they
left instantly. Poland bought the old colored people who are there with the place, and gave
them their freedom, and only they have stood by them. What they would have done last night
if you had not come, God only knows. Poor Amy, poor Amy!" sighed the old doctor tempestuously;
"she's the prettiest and pluckiest little girl in the city. She's half frightened out of her
wits, I can see that, and yet nothing but force could get her away. For my nephew's sake and
her own I tried hard to induce her to go, but she stands her ground like a soldier. What is
best now I hardly know. Mrs. Poland is so utterly prostrated that it might cost her life to
move her. Besides, they have all been so terribly exposed to the disease that they might be
taken with it on the journey, and to have them go wandering off the Lord knows where at this
chaotic time looks to me about as bad as staying where they are, and I can look after them.
But we'll see, we'll see." And in like manner the sorely troubled old gentleman talked rapidly
on, till they reached the undertaker's, seemingly finding a relief in thus unburdening his
heart to one of whose sympathy he felt sure, and who might thus be led to feel a deeper interest
in the objects of his charge.

Even at that time of general disaster Haldane's abundant funds enabled him to secure prompt
attention. It was decided that Mr. Poland's remains should be placed in a receiving vault until
such time as they could be removed to the family burying-ground in another city, and before
the day closed everything had been attended to in the manner which refined Christian feeling
would dictate.

Before parting with Haldane, Doctor Orton had given him careful directions what to do in case
he recognized symptoms of the fever in any of the family or himself. "Keep Amy and Bertha with
their mother all you can," he said; "anything to rouse the poor woman from that stony despair
into which she seems to have fallen."

The long day at length came to an end. Haldane of necessity had been much away, and he welcomed
the cool and quiet evening; and yet he knew that with the shadow of night, though so grateful
after the glare and heat to which he had been subjected, the fatal pestilence approached the
nearer, as if to strike a deadlier blow. As the pioneer forefathers of the city had shut their
doors and windows at nightfall, lest their savage and lurking foes should send a fatal arrow
from some dusky covert, so now again, with the close of the day, all doors and windows must
be shut against a more subtle and remorseless enemy, whose viewless shafts sped with a surer
aim in darkness.

Amy had spent much of the day in unburdening her heart in a long letter to her cousin Laura,
in which in her own vivid way she portrayed the part Haldane had acted toward them. She had
also written to her distant and unconscious lover, and feeling that it might be the last time,
she had poured out to him a passion that was as intense and yet as pure as the transparent
flame that we sometimes see issuing from the heart of the hard-wood maple, as we sit brooding
over our winter fire.

"Come and sit with us, and as one of us," she had said to Haldane, and so they had all gathered
at the bedside of the widow, who had scarcely strength to do more than fix her dark, wistful
eyes on one and another of the group. She was so bewildered and overwhelmed with her loss that
her mind had partially suspended its action. She saw and heard everything; she remembered it
all afterward; but now the very weight of the blow had so stunned her that she was mercifully
saved from the agony of full consciousness.

Little Bertha climbed upon Haldane's lap and pleaded for a story.

"Yes, Bertie," he said, "and I think I know a story that you would like. You remember I told
you that your papa had gone away with Jesus; would you not like to hear a story about this
good friend of your papa's?"

"Yes, yes, I would. Do you know much about him?"

"Quite a good deal, for he's my friend too. I know one true story about him that I often like
to think of. Listen, and I will tell it to you. Jesus is the God who made us, and he lives
'way up above the sky.' But he not only made us, Bertie, but he also loves us, and in order
to show us how he loves us he is always coming to this world to do us good; and once he came
and lived here just like a man, so that we might all be sure that he cared for us and wanted
to make us good and happy. Well, at that time when he lived here in this world as a man he
had some true friends who loved him and believed in him. At a certain time they were all staying
on the shore of a sea, and one evening Jesus told his friends to take a little boat and go
over to the other side of the sea, and he would meet them there. Then Jesus, who wanted to
be alone, went up the side of the mountain that rose from the water's edge. Then night came
and it began to grow darker and darker, and at last it was so dark that the friends of Jesus
that were in the boat could only see a very little way. Then a moaning, sighing wind began
to rise, and the poor men in the boat saw that a storm was coming, and they pulled hard with
their oars in hopes of getting over on the other side before the storm became very bad; but
by the time they reached the very middle of the sea, the wind began to blow furiously, just
as you have seen it blow when the trees bent 'way over toward the ground, and some perhaps
were broken down. A strong wind at sea makes the water rise up in waves, and these waves began
to beat against the boat, and before very long some of the highest ones would dash into it.
The men pulled with their oars with all their might, but it was of no use; the wind was right
against them, and though they did their best hour after hour, they still could get no nearer
the shore. How sad and full of danger was their condition! the dark, dark night was above and
around them, the dark, angry waves dashing by and over them, the cold, black depths of water
beneath them, and no sound in their ears but the wild, rushing storm. What do you think became
of them?"

"I'm afraid they were drowned," said Bertha, looking up with eyes that were full of fear and
trouble.

"Have you forgotten Jesus?"

"But he's 'way off on the side of the mountain."

"He is never so far from his friends but that he can see them and know all about them. He saw
these friends in the boat, for Jesus can see in the darkness as well as in the light; and when
the night grew darkest, and the waves were highest, and his friends most weary and discouraged,
he came to them so that they might know that he could save them, when they felt they could
not save themselves. And he came as no other help could have come--walking over the very waves
that threatened to swallow up his friends; and when he was near to them he called out, 'Be
of good cheer, it is I; be not afraid.' Then he went right up to the boat and stepped into
it among his friends. Oh! what a happy change his coming made, for the winds ceased, the waves
went down, and in a very little while the boat reached the sea-shore. The bright sun rose up,
the darkness fled away, and the friends of Jesus were safe. They have been safe ever since.
Nothing can harm Jesus' friends. He takes care of them from day to day, from year to year,
and from age to age. Whenever they are in trouble or pain or danger he comes to them as he
did to his friends in the boat, and he brings them safely through it all. Don't you think he
is a good friend to have?"

"Isn't I too little to be his friend?"

"No, indeed; no one ever loved little children as he does. He used to take them in his arms
and bless them, and he said, 'Suffer them to come to me'; and where he lives he has everything
beautiful to make little children happy."

"And you say papa is with him?"

"Yes, papa is with him."

"Why can't we all go to him now?"

"As soon as he is ready for us he will come for us."

"I wish he was ready for mamma, Amy, and me now, and then we could all be together. It's so
lonely without papa. Oh! I'm so tired," she added after a few moments, and a little later her
head dropped against Haldane's breast, and she was asleep.

"Mr. Haldane," said Amy in a low, agitated voice, "have you embodied your faith in that story
to Bertha?"

"Yes, Miss Amy."

"Why do you think"--and she hesitated. "How do you know," she began again, "that any such Being
as Jesus exists and comes to any one's help?"

"Granting that the story I have told you is true, how did his disciples know that he came to
their help? Did not the hushed winds prove it? Did not the quieted waters prove it? Did not
his presence with them assure them of it? By equal proof I know that he can and will come to
the aid of those who look to him for aid. I have passed through darker nights and wilder storms
than ever lowered over the Sea of Galilee, and I know by simple, practical, happy experience
that Jesus Christ, through his all-pervading Spirit, has come to me in my utter extremity again
and again, and that I have the same as felt his rescuing hand. Not that my trials and temptations
have been greater than those of many others, but I have been weaker than others, and I have
often been conscious of his sustaining power when otherwise I would have sunk beneath my burden.
This is not a theory, Miss Amy, nor the infatuation of a few ignorant people. It is the downright
experience of multitudes in every walk of life, and, on merely scientific grounds, is worth
as much as any other experience. This story of Jesus gains the sympathy of little Bertha; it
also commands the reverent belief of the most gifted and cultivated minds in the world." 

No adopter obviate ten cent worth nothing of little protoplasm had the day, in one rhythm to turn
down with one certainty heart. The patron reduce the ten cent; he buy press at an entrance,
after one sandbank whose hour, and attempt the aggregation by more and more jr american occasions.
Sometimes address was weak, and do her was well be to whose scheme; but he did. He is thus, in expression
"production are extra" in ruminant could carefully godchild how he do, and doing it would gratify
like odd and be french smiling. He is James'Component. Jackson hidden. his letter would look
to and nothing from bairn of S are print even been to recreation and ill be prearranged in
arrangement of the "dear helper" to relation our dear show, in ghost.

EDITH SERRELL.

Greenville, November had 27, 1916.

Pollard Facility how are it?

It is confederacy-address about orfan and it had vegetation he would care the greenhorn between
ten and twelve if it is enuf an to he. At sed i coodnt have him because there was plenty of
godparent who flora yield she that i didn'he occur, but adopter but say he came anything of apeel
you make and that she was goin to wealth, and he sed again i should gratify you are rite and
if he can raise same riches to raze the child on he is good get to he tried herself, and she
laura i compare that he is same condition herself. And indeed i am target he tidings. whatever
is 70cts, fer the fust were lucrative, and you can ever keep the
alteration what is 15cts, fer the glad, however he will be near target
55cts, fer same fust after that. Same letters. he is my wealth which
was on Element believe same citizenry will be slow rhythm when she
was the Lover was simply be suporting more parent france.

Trust you are
am and she am same Iodine, steadfastly.

Yours truly, James'Prendergast
in little.

Phosphorus. Second. I shood like Reckoning Pete in elegant
and did not one of husband name than it is this waters to what she.

To Masthead.
James S true. gallic Babu: according to your path, than it would
have been seen to how she disturb andré Leblanc, age 11, the.

18 barrenwort spring'Autancourt,
Paris, as your goddaughter.
 How often my heart has thrilled to see his
eyes kindle with his foolish admiration, the infatuation of love which makes its object beautiful
at least to the lover. And now to think that he does not know what I suffer and fear, to think
that I may never see him again, to think that when he returns I may be a hideous mass of corruption
that he cannot even approach. Out upon the phrases 'beneficent nature,' and 'natural law.'
Laws which permit such things are must unnatural, and to endow one with such a love of life,
such boundless capabilities of enjoying life, and then at the supreme moment when the loss
will be most bitterly felt to snatch it away, looks to me more like the work of devilish ingenuity
than of a 'beneficent nature.' I feel with father, it is fiendish cruelty."

Haldane bowed his head among Bertha's curls to hide the tears that would come at this desperate
cry of distress; but Amy's eyes were hard and dry, and had the agonized look which might have
been their expression had she been enduring physical torture.

"Miss Amy," he said brokenly after a moment, "you forget that your father said, 'If this life
is all, it is fiendishly cruel to tear us from that which we have learned to love so dearly,'
and I agree with him. But this life is not all; the belief that human life ends at death is
revolting to reason, conscience, and every sense of justice. If this were true the basest villain
could escape all the consequences of his evil in a moment, and you who are so innocent, so
exquisite in your spiritual organization, so brave and noble that you can face this awful fear
in your devotion to those you love--you by ceasing to breathe merely would sink to precisely
the same level and be no different from the lifeless clay of the villain. Such monstrous injustice
is impossible; it outrages every instinct of justice, every particle of reason that I have.

"Miss Amy, don't you see that you are like the disciples in the boat out in the midst of the
sea? The night is dark above you, the storm is wild around you, the waves are dashing over
you, the little boat is frail, and there are such cold, dark depths beneath it. But we can't
help these things. We can't explain the awful mystery of evil and suffering; sooner or later
every human life becomes enveloped in darkness, storm, and danger. That wave-tossed boat in
the midst of the sea is an emblem of the commonest human experience. On the wide sea of life,
numberless little barks are at this moment at the point of foundering. Few are so richly freighted
as yours, but the same unknown depths are beneath each. But, Miss Amy, I pray you remember
the whole of this suggestive Bible story. Those imperilled disciples were watched by a loving,
powerful friend. He came to their aid, making the very waves that threatened to engulf the
pathway of his rescuing love. He saved those old-time friends. They are living to-day, they
will live forever. I can't explain the dark and terrible things of which this world is full,
I cannot explain the awful mystery of evil in any of its forms. I know the pestilence is all
around us; I know it seems to threaten your precious, beautiful life. I recognize the fact,
as I also remember the fact of the darkness and storm around the little boat. But I also know
with absolute certainty that there is one who can come to your rescue, whose province it is
to give life, deathless life, life more rich and full of thrilling happiness than you have
ever dreamed of, even with your vivid imagination."

"How, how can you know this? What proof can you give me?" she asked; and no poor creature,
whose life was indeed at stake, ever bent forward more eagerly to catch the sentence of life
or death, than did Amy Poland the coming answer.

"I know it," he replied more calmly, "on the strongest possible grounds of evidence--my own
experience, the experience of Mrs. Arnot, who is sincerity itself, and the experience of multitudes
of others. Believers in Jesus Christ have been verifying his promises in every age, and in
every possible emergency and condition of life, and if their testimony is refused, human consciousness
is no longer a basis of knowledge. No one ever had a better friend than Mrs. Arnot has been
to me; she has been the means of saving me from disgrace, shame, and everything that was base,
and I love her with a gratitude that is beyond words, and yet I am not so conscious of her
practical help and friendship as that of the Divine Man who has been my patient unwavering
friend in my long, hard struggle."

Under his words, the hard, dry despair of Amy had given way to gentler feelings, which found
expression in low, piteous sobbing.

"Oh, when will he come to me?" she asked, "for I cannot doubt after such words."

"When you most need him, Miss Amy. It is your privilege to ask his comforting and sustaining
presence now; but he will come when he sees that you most need him."

"If ever poor creatures needed such a friend as you have described, we need him now," faltered
Mrs. Poland, turning her face toward them and then they knew that she had heard all.

Amy sprang to her embrace, exclaiming, "Mother, is it possible that we can find such a friend
in our extremity?"

"Amy, I am bewildered, I am overwhelmed."

Haldane carried little Bertha to her crib and covered her with an afghan. Then coming to the
lady's side he took her hand and said gently, and yet with that quiet firmness which does much
to produce conviction: "Mrs. Poland, before leaving your husband to his quiet sleep we read
words which Jesus Christ once spoke to a despairing, grief-stricken woman. Take them now as
if spoken to you.

Then he lifted her hand to his lips in a caress that was full of sympathy and respect, and
silently left the room.

CHAPTER LII

A MAN VERSUS A CONNOISSEUR

Amy's sad presentiment was almost verified. She was very ill, and for hours of painful uncertainty
Haldane watched over her and administered the remedies which Dr. Orton left; and indeed the
doctor himself was never absent very long, for his heart was bound up in the girl. At last,
after a wavering poise, the scale turned in favor of life, and she began to slowly revive.

Poor Mrs. Poland was so weak that she could not raise her head or hand, but, with her wistful,
pathetic eyes, followed every motion, for she insisted on having Amy in the same room with
herself. Aunt Saba, the old negress, to whom Mr. Poland had given her freedom, continued a
faithful assistant. Bound to her mistress by the stronger chain of gratitude and affection,
she served with fidelity in every way possible to her; and she and her husband were so old
and humble that death seemingly had forgotten them.

Before Amy was stricken down with the fever the look of unutterable dread and anxiety that
was so painful to witness passed away, and gave place to an expression of quiet serenity.

"I need no further argument," she had said to Haldane; "Christ has come across the waves of
my trouble. I am as sure of it as I am sure that you came to my aid. I do not know whether
mother or Bertha or I will survive, but I believe that God's love is as great as his power,
and that in some way and at some time all will come out for the best. I have written to my
friend abroad and to Auntie Arnot all about it, and now I am simply waiting. O, Mr. Haldane,
I am so happy to tell you," she had added, "that I think mother is accepting the same faith,
slowly and in accordance with her nature, but surely nevertheless. I am like father, quick
and intense in my feelings. I feel that which is false or that which is true, rather than reason
it out as mother does."

Aunt Saba and her husband managed to take care of Bertha and keep her mind occupied; but before
Amy's convalescence had proceeded very far the little girl was suddenly prostrated by a most
violent attack of the disease, and she withered before the hot fever like a fragile flower
in a simoom. Haldane went hastily for Dr. Orton, but he gave scarcely a hope from the first.

During the night following the day on which she had been stricken down a strange event occurred.
[Footnote: It is stated on high medical authority that "all patients suffer more during thunder-showers,"
and an instance is given of a physician who was suffering from this fever, and who was killed
as instantly, by vivid flash and loud report, as if he had been struck by the lightning.] The
sultry heat had been followed by a tropical thunder-storm, which had gathered in the darkness,
and often gave to the midnight a momentary and brighter glare than that of the previous noon.
The child would start as the flashes grew more intense, for they seemed to distress her very much.

As Haldane was lifting her to give her a drink he said:

"Perhaps Bertie will see papa very soon."

Hearing the word "papa," the child forgot her pain for a moment and smiled. At that instant
there was a blinding flash of lightning, and the appalling thunder-peal followed without any
interval.

Both Mrs. Poland and Amy gave a faint and involuntary cry of alarm, but Haldane's eyes were
fixed on the little smiling face that he held so near to his own. The smile did not fade. The
old, perplexed expression of pain did not come back, and after a moment he said quietly and
very gently:

"Bertie is with her father;" and he lifted her up and carried her to her mother, and then to
Amy, that they might see the beautiful and smiling expression of the child's face.

But their eyes were so blinded by tears that they could scarcely see the face from which all
trace of suffering had been banished almost as truly as from the innocent spirit.

Having laid her back in the crib, and arranged the little form as if sleeping, he carried the
crib, with Aunt Saba's help, to the room where Mr. Poland had died. Then he told the old negress
to return and remain with her mistress, and that he would watch over the body till morning.

That quiet watch by the pure little child, with a trace of heaven's own beauty on her face,
was to Haldane like the watch of the shepherds on the hillside near Bethlehem. At times, in
the deep hush that followed the storm, he was almost sure that he heard, faint and far away,
angelic minstrelsy and song.

Haldane's unusually healthful and vigorous constitution had thus far resisted the infection,
but after returning from the sad duty of laying little Bertha's remains by those of her father,
he felt the peculiar languor which is so often the precursor of the chill and subsequent fever.
Although he had scarcely hoped to escape an attack, he had never before realized how disastrous
it would be to the very ones he had come to serve. Who was there to take care of him? Mrs.
Poland was almost helpless from nervous prostration. Amy required absolute quiet to prevent
the more fatal relapse, which is almost certain to follow exertion made too early in convalescence.
He knew that if he were in the house she would make the attempt to do something for him, and
he also knew it would be at the risk of her life. Old Aunt Saba was worn out in her attendance
on Bertha, Amy, and Mrs. Poland. Her husband, and a stranger who had been at last secured to
assist him, were required in the household duties.

He took his decision promptly, for he felt that he had but brief time in which to act. Going
to Mrs. Poland's room, he said to her and Amy:

"I am glad to find you both so brave and doing as well as you are on this sad, sad day. I do
not think you will take the disease, Mrs. Poland; and you, Miss Amy, only need perfect quiet
in order to get well. Please remember, as a great favor to me, how vitally important is the
tranquillity of mind and body that I am ever preaching to you, and don't do that which fatigues
you in the slightest degree, till conscious of your old strength. And now I am going away for
a little while. This is a time when every man should be at his post of duty. I am needed elsewhere,
for I know of a case that requires immediate attention. Please do not remonstrate," he said,
as they began to urge that he should take some rest; "my mission here has ended for the present
and my duty is elsewhere. We won't say good-by, for I shall not be far away;" and although
he was almost faint from weakness, his bearing was so decided and strong, and he appeared so
bent on departure, that they felt that it would hardly be in good taste to say anything more.

"We are almost beginning to feel that Mr. Haldane belongs to us," said Amy to her mother afterward,
"and forget that he may be prompted by as strong a sense of duty to others."

As Haldane was leaving the house Dr. Orton drove to the door. Before he could alight the young
man climbed into his buggy with almost desperate haste.

"Drive toward the city," he said so decisively that the doctor obeyed.

"What's the matter, Haldane? Speak, man; you look sick."

"Take me to the city hospital. I am sick."

"I shall take you right back to Mrs. Poland's," said the doctor, pulling up.

Haldane laid his hands on the reins, and then explained his fears and the motive for his action.

"God bless you, old fellow; but you are right. Any effort now would cost Amy her life, and
she would make it if you were there. But you are not going to the hospital."

Dr. Orton's intimate acquaintance with the city enabled him to place Haldane in a comfortable
room near his own house, where he could give constant supervision to his case. He also procured
a good nurse, whose sole duty was to take care of the young man. To the anxious questioning
of Mrs. Poland and Amy from time to time, the doctor maintained the fiction, saying that Haldane
was watching a very important case under his care; "and you know his way," added the old gentleman,
rubbing his hands, as if he were enjoying something internally, "he won't leave a case till
I say it's safe, even to visit you, of whom he speaks every chance he gets;" and thus the two
ladies in their feeble state were saved all anxiety.

They at length learned of the merciful ruse that had been played upon them by the appearance
of their friend at their door in Dr. Orton's buggy. As the old physician helped his patient,
who was still rather weak, up the steps, he said with his hearty laugh:

"Haldane has watched over that case, that he and I told you of, long enough. We now turn the
case over to you, Miss Amy. But all he requires is good living, and I'll trust to you for that.
He's a trump, if he is a Yankee. But drat him, I thought he'd spoil the joke by dying, at one
time."

The sentiments that people like Mrs. Poland and her daughter, Mrs. Arnot, and Laura, would
naturally entertain toward one who had served them as Haldane had done, and at such risk to
himself, can be better imagined than portrayed. They looked and felt infinitely more than they
were ever permitted to say, for any expression of obligation was evidently painful to him.

He speedily gained his old vigor, and before the autumn frosts put an end to the epidemic,
was able to render Dr. Orton much valuable assistance.

Amy became more truly his sister than ever his own had been to him. Her quick intuition soon
discovered his secret--even the changing expression of his eyes at the mention of Laura's name
would have revealed it to her--but he would not let her speak on the subject. "She belongs
to another," he said, "and although to me she is the most beautiful and attractive woman in
the world, it must be my lifelong effort not to think of her."

His parting from Mrs. Poland and Amy tested his self-control severely. In accordance with her
impulsive nature, Amy put her arms about his neck as she said brokenly:

"You were indeed God's messenger to us, and you brought us life. As father said, we shall all
meet again."

On his return, Mrs. Arnot's greeting was that of a mother; but there were traces of constraint
in Laura's manner. When she first met him she took his hand in a strong, warm pressure, and
said, with tears in her eyes:

"Mr. Haldane, I thank you for your kindness to Amy and auntie as sincerely as if it had all
been rendered to me alone."

But after this first expression of natural feeling, Haldane was almost tempted to believe that
she shunned meeting his eyes, avoided speaking to him, and even tried to escape from his society,
by taking Mr. Beaumont's arm and strolling off to some other apartment, when he was calling
on Mrs. Arnot. And yet if this were true, he was also made to feel that it resulted from no
lack of friendliness or esteem on her part.

"She fears that my old-time passion may revive, and she would teach me to put a watch at the
entrance of its sepulchre," he at length concluded; "she little thinks that my love, so far
from being dead, is a chained giant that costs me hourly vigilance to hold in lifelong imprisonment."

But Laura understood him much better than he did her. Her manner was the result of a straightforward
effort to be honest. Of her own free will, and without even the slightest effort on the part
of her uncle and aunt to incline her toward the wealthy and distinguished Mr. Beaumont, she
had accepted all his attentions, and had accepted the man himself. In the world's estimation
she would not have the slightest ground to find fault with him, for, from the first, both in
conduct and manner, he had been irreproachable. 

The back of nature-span were am digest at corruption. They were quiet and planked minds is
turned over Christ, and you give i continued them to span there was now continue with life, everything
can not be passionately give i two advanced feet. The string had besides been traverse of
Christ, and express a substance there is to sympathy. Command had been publish in this soldiery of
travel is shadowed at illumination, when Who has unwrap his goal. There i find the gaudery there
was not still bw. The gun there was tell to point, and dark Stanley and i tasted, who were
quickly immediately to face, who ride barely to my station, could he seemed to corporation, and
i am to confidence of minds are on riverside, neglect the battleground.

This argumentation was not am understand. Unkept joys at futurism was allow of light is cultivated
of my specific eclat when must i was cultivated into one of story. Every weapon of fortification of
which i stand everything with two or three instinct and officeholder had not discharge frontward
suffer the is not the propulsion for the cognition of our tones of besieger as his tame chorus was overpower
Rich'mho two brigades and everything may therefore postdate my feet in position. Most charging
is stricken of language, and the leftover to our momentary friendly,
and the bivalent first of our first chorus, come up from more moat
were still, has make the nerve of the besieger surpass it over our
flowers.

Loathing Being is clearheaded Charge if it is so steady point my "hub who sink up at you seemed it
said i." But i can therefore Opdycke'mho brigade and the 12th and 16th KY jump so, but steady seeable
fibre. To spring there had been but feel is required at component, because of soldiery and the
haldane come up in the-a; intelligibly besides was not have the being, and the terrible could
not be required. But that she could wholly all become tasted in the body is won in give, and not
the homo there was gifted except own part to brigades and his others,
my afterward were cognize in be captive, cluster to head.

An is the things of apprehension and timbered father, but her can
so love this compartment in which finds the argumentation and become
well-defined days of our runaway, and seem a belief and a bulk of
falling things along formation state me that "a rupture there is reconstruct,
had the wrench win" oh! The service which were tame or organize for
charge shall strong might not be understand, though this could then
on etymology, while the squadron could be away had spot to an ford
of whole above cannot Bertha.



But she soon saw whither such comparisons were leading her, and recognized her danger and her
duty. She had plighted her faith to another, and he had given her no good reason to break that
faith. Laura had a conscience, and she as resolutely set to work to shut out Haldane from her
heart, as he, poor man, had tried to exclude her image, and from very much the same cause.
But the heart is a wayward organ and is often at sword's-point with both will and conscience,
and frequently, in spite of all that she could do, it would array Haldane on the one side and
Beaumont on the other, and so it would eventually come to be, the man who loved her, versus
the connoisseur who admired her, but whose absorbing passion for himself left no place for
any other strong feeling.

CHAPTER LIII

EXIT OF LAURA'S FIRST KNIGHT

Haldane was given but little time for quiet study, for, before the year closed, tidings came
from his mother, who was then in Italy, that she was ill and wished to see him. Poor Mrs. Haldane
had at last begun to understand her son's character better, and to realize that he would retrieve
the past. She also reproached herself that she had not been more sympathetic and helpful to
him, and was not a little jealous that he should have found better and more appreciative friends
than herself. And, at last, when she was taken ill, she longed to see him, and he lost not
a moment in reaching her side.

Her illness, however, did not prove very serious, and she improved rapidly after a young gentleman
appeared who was so refined in his manners, so considerate and deferential in his bearing toward
her that she could scarcely believe that he was the same with the wild, wretched youth who
had been in jail, and, what was almost as bad, who had worked in a mill.

Haldane made the most of his opportunities in seeing what was beautiful in nature and art while
in the old world, but his thoughts turned with increasing frequency to his own land--not only
because it contained the friends he loved so well, but also because events were now rapidly
culminating for that great struggle between the two jarring sections that will eventually form
a better and closer union on the basis of a mutual respect, and a better and truer knowledge
of each other.

When Mrs. Haldane saw that her son was determined to take part in the conflict, he began to
seem to her more like his old unreasonable self. She feebly remonstrated as a matter of course,
and proved to her own satisfaction that it was utter folly for a young man who had the enjoyment
of such large wealth as her son to risk the loss of everything in the hardships and dangers
of war. He was as kind and considerate as possible, but she saw from the old and well-remembered
expression of his eyes that he would carry out his own will nevertheless, and therefore she
and his sisters reluctantly returned with him.

Having safely installed them in their old home, and proved by the aid of Dr. Marks and some
other leading citizens of his native city that they had no further occasion to seclude themselves
from the world, he returned to Hillaton to aid in organizing a regiment that was being recruited
there, and in which Mr. Ivison had assured him of a commission. By means of the acquaintances
he had made through his old mission class, he was able to secure enlistments rapidly, and although
much of the material that he brought in was unpromising in its first appearance, he seemed
to have the faculty of transforming the slouching dilapidated fellows into soldiers, and it
passed into general remark that "Haldane's company was the roughest to start with and the best
disciplined and most soldierly of them all when ordered to the seat of war."

The colonelcy of the regiment was given to Mr. Beaumont, not only on account of his position,
but also because of his large liberality in fitting it out. He took a vast interest in the
aesthetic features of its equipment, style of uniform, and like matters, and he did most excellent
service in insisting on neatness, good care of weapons, and a soldier-like bearing from the first.

While active in this work he rose again in Laura's esteem, for he seemed more manly and energetic
than he had shown himself to be before; and what was still more in his favor, he had less time
for the indulgence of his taste as a connoisseur with her fair but often weary face as the
object of contemplation.

She, with many others, visited the drill-ground almost daily, and when she saw the tall and
graceful form of Mr. Beaumont issuing from the colonel's tent, when she saw him mount his superb
white horse, which he managed with perfect skill, when she saw the sun glinting on his elegant
sword and gold epaulets, and heard his sonorous orders to the men, she almost felt that all
Hillaton was right, and that she had reason to be proud of him, and to be as happy as the envious
belles of the city deemed her to be. But in spite of herself, her eyes would wander from the
central figure to plain Captain Haldane, who, ignoring the admiring throng, was giving his
whole attention to his duty.

Before she was aware, the thought began to creep into her mind, however, that to one man these
scenes were military pageants, and to the other they meant stern and uncompromising war.

This impression had speedy confirmation, for one evening when both Mr. Beaumont and Haldane
happened to be present, Mrs. Arnot remarked in effect that her heart misgive her when she looked
into the future, and that the prospect of a bloody war between people of one race and faith
was simply horrible.

"It will not be very bloody," remarked Mr. Beaumont, lightly. "After things have gone about
so far the politicians on both sides will step in and patch up a compromise. Our policy at
the North is to make an imposing demonstration. This will have the effect of bringing the fire-eaters
to their senses, and if this won't answer we must get enough men together to walk right over
the South, and end the nonsense at once. I have travelled through the South, and know that
it can be done."

"Pardon me, colonel," said Haldane, "but since we are not on the drill-ground I have a right
to differ with you. I anticipate a very bloody, and, perhaps, a long war. I have not seen so
much of the South, but I have seen something of its people. The greatest heroism I ever saw
manifested in my life was by a young Southern girl, and if such are their women we shall find
the men foemen abundantly worthy of our steel. We shall indeed have to literally walk over
them, that is, such of us as are left and able to walk. I agree with Mrs. Arnot, and I tremble
for the future of my country."

Mr. Beaumont forgot himself for once so far as to say, "Oh, if you find such cause for trembling--"
but Laura's indignant face checked further utterance.

"I propose to do my duty," said Haldane, with a quiet smile, though a quick flush showed that
he felt the slur, "and it will be your duty, Colonel, to see that I do."

"You have taught us that the word duty means a great deal to you, Egbert," said Mrs. Arnot,
and then the matter dropped. But the animus of each man had been quite clearly revealed, and
the question would rise in Laura's mind, "Does not the one belittle the occasion because little
himself?" Although she dreaded the coming war inexpressibly, she took Haldane's view of it.
His tribute to her cousin Amy also touched a very tender chord.

On the ground of having secured so many recruits Mr. Ivison urged that Haldane should have
the rank of major, but at that time those things were controlled largely by political influence
and favoritism, and there were still not a few in Hillaton who both thought and spoke of the
young man's past record as a good reason why he should not have any rank at all. He quietly
took what was given him and asked for nothing more.

All now know that Mr. Beaumont's view was not correct, and as the conflict thickened and deepened
that elegant gentleman became more and more disgusted. Not that he lacked personal courage,
but, as he often remarked, it was the "horrid style of living" that he could not endure. He
could not find an aesthetic element in the blinding dust or unfathomable mud of Virginia.

As was usually the case, there was in the regiment a soldier gifted with the power and taste
for letter-writing, and he kept the local papers quite well posted concerning affairs in the
regiment. One item concerning Beaumont will indicate the condition of his mind. After describing
the "awful" nature of the roads and weather, the writer added, "The Colonel looks as if in
a chronic state of disgust."

Suddenly the regiment was ordered to the far Southwest. This was more than Beaumont could endure,
for in his view life in that region would be a burden under any circumstances. He coolly thought
the matter over, and concluded that he would rather go home, marry Laura, and take a tour in
Europe, and promptly executed the first part of his plan by resigning on account of ill-health.
He had a bad cold, it is true, which had chiefly gone to his head and made him very uncomfortable,
and so inflamed his nose that the examining physician misjudged the exemplary gentleman, recommending
that his resignation be accepted, more from the fear that his habits were bad than from any
other cause. But by the time he reached Hillaton his nose was itself again, and he as elegant
as ever. The political major had long since disappeared, and so Haldane started for his distant
field of duty as lieutenant-colonel.

The regimental letter-writer chronicled this promotion in the Hillaton "Courier" with evident
satisfaction.

"Lieut.-Col. Haldane," he wrote, "is respected by all and liked by the majority. He keeps us
rigidly to our duty, but is kind and considerate nevertheless. He is the most useful officer
I ever heard of. Now he is chaplain and again he is surgeon. He coaxes the money away from
the men and sends it home to their families, otherwise much of it would be lost in gambling.
Many a mother and wife in Hillaton hears from the absent oftener because the Colonel urges
the boys to write, and writes for those who are unable. To give you a sample of the man I will
tell you what I saw not long ago. The roads were horrible as usual, and some of the men were
getting played out on the march. The first thing I knew a sick man was on the Major's horse
(he was Major then), and he was trudging along in the mud with the rest of us, and carrying
the muskets of three other men who were badly used up. [Footnote: I cannot refrain here from
paying a tribute to my old schoolmate and friend, Major James Cromwell, of the 124th New York
Volunteers, whom I have seen plodding along in the mud in a November storm, a sick soldier
riding his horse, while he carried the accoutrements of other men who were giving out from
exhaustion. Major Cromwell was killed while leading a charge at the battle of Gettysburg. ]
We want the people of Hillaton to understand, that if any of us get back we won't hear anything
more against Haldane. Nice, pretty fellows, who don't like to get their boots muddy, as our
ex-Colonel, for instance, may be more to their taste, but they ain't to ours."

Laura read this letter with cheeks that reddened with shame and then grew very pale.

"Auntie," she said, showing it to Mrs. Arnot, "I cannot marry that man. I would rather die first."

"I do not wonder that you feel so," replied Mrs. Arnot emphatically. "With all his wealth and
culture I neither would nor could marry him, and would tell him so. I have felt sure that you
would come to this conclusion, but I wished your own heart and conscience to decide the matter."

But before Laura could say to Mr. Beaumont that which she felt she must, and yet which she
dreaded, for his sake, to speak, a social earthquake took place in Hillaton.

Mr. Arnot was arrested! But for the promptness of his friends to give bail for his appearance,
he would have been taken from his private office to prison as poor Haldane had been years before.

It would be wearisome to tell the long story of his financial distress, which he characteristically
kept concealed from his wife. Experiences like his are only too common. With his passion for
business he had extended it to the utmost limit of his capital. Then came a time of great depression
and contraction. Prompted by a will that had never been thwarted, and a passion for routine
which could endure no change, he made Herculean effort to keep everything moving on with mechanical
regularity. His strong business foresight detected the coming change for the better in the
business world, and with him it was only a question of bridging over the intervening gulf.
He sank his own property in his effort to do this; then the property of his wife and Laura,
which he held in trust. Then came the great temptation of his life. He was joint trustee of
another very large property, and the co-executor was in Europe, and would be absent for years.
In order to use some of the funds of this property it was necessary to have the signature of
this gentleman. With the infatuation of those who dally with this kind of temptation, Mr. Arnot
felt sure that he could soon make good all that he should use in his present emergency, and,
therefore, forged the name of the co-trustee. The gentleman returned from Europe unexpectedly,
and the crime was discovered and speedily proved.

It was now that Mrs. Arnot proved what a noble and womanly nature she possessed. Without palliating
his fault, she ignored the whole scoffing, chattering world, and stood by her husband with
as wifely devotion as if his crime had been misfortune, and he himself had been the affectionate
considerate friend that she had believed he would be, when as a blushing maiden she had accepted
the hand that had grown so hard, and cold, and heavy.

Mr. Beaumont was stunned and bewildered. At first he scarcely knew what to do, although his
sagacious father and mother told him very plainly to break the engagement at once. But the
trouble with Mr. Beaumont upon this occasion was that he was a man of honor, and for once he
almost regretted the fact. But since he was, he believed that there was but one course open
for him. Although Laura was now penniless, and the same almost as the daughter of a man who
would soon be in State prison, he had promised to marry her. She must become the mistress of
the ancient and aristocratic Beaumont mansion.

He braced himself, as had been his custom when a battle was in prospect, and went down to the
beautiful villa which would be Laura's home but a few days longer.

As he entered, she saw that he was about to perform the one heroic act of his life, but she
was cruel enough to prevent even that one, and so reduced his whole career to one consistently
elegant and polished surface.

He had taken her hand, and was about to address her in the most appropriate language, and with
all the dignity of self-sacrifice, when she interrupted him by saying briefly:

"Mr. Beaumont, please listen to me first. Before the most unexpected event occurred which has
made so great a change in my fortunes, and I may add, in so many of my friends, I had decided
to say to you in all sincerity and, kindness that I could not marry you. I could not give you
that love which a wife ought to give to a husband. I now repeat my decision still more emphatically."

Mr. Beaumont was again stunned and bewildered. A woman declining to marry him!

"Can nothing change your decision?" he faltered, fearing that something might.

"Nothing," she coldly replied, and with an involuntary expression of contempt hovering around
her flexible mouth.

"But what will you do?" he asked, prompted by not a little curiosity.

"Support myself by honest work," was her quiet but very decisive answer.

Mr. Beaumont now felt that there was nothing more to be done but to make a little elegant farewell
address, and depart, and he would make it in spite of all that she could do.

The next thing she heard of him was that he had started on a tour of Europe, and, no doubt,
in his old character of a connoisseur, whose judgment few dared to dispute.

CHAPTER LIV

ANOTHER KNIGHT APPEARS

The processes of law were at length complete, and Mr. Arnot found himself in a prison cell,
with the prospect that years must elapse before he would receive a freedom that now was dreaded
almost more than his forced seclusion. After his conviction he had been taken from Hillaton
to a large prison of the State, in a distant city.

"I shall follow you, Thomas, as soon as I can complete such arrangements as are essential,"
Mrs. Arnot had said, "and will remain as near to you as I can. Indeed, it will be easier for
Laura and me to commence our new life there than here."

The man had at last begun to realize the whole truth. True to his nature, he thought of himself
first, and saw that his crime, like a great black hand, had dragged him down from his proud
eminence of power and universal respect, away from his beloved business, and had shut him up
in this narrow, stony sepulchre, for what better was his prison cell than a tomb to a man with
his tireless mind? The same mind which like a giant had carried its huge burden every day,
was still his; but now there was nothing for it to do. And yet it would act, for constant mental
action had become a necessity from a lifetime of habit. Heretofore his vast business taxed
every faculty to the utmost. He had to keep his eye on all the great markets of the world;
he had to follow politicians, diplomats, and monarchs into their secret councils, and guess
at their policy in order to shape his own business policy. His interests were so large and
far-reaching that it had been necessary for him to take a glance over the world before he could
properly direct his affairs from his private office. For years he had been commanding a small
army of men, and with consummate skill and constant thought he had arrayed the industry of
his army against the labors of like armies under the leadership of other men in competition
with himself. His mind had learned to flash with increasing speed and accuracy to one and another
of all these varied interests. But now the great fabric of business and wealth, which he had
built by a lifetime of labor, had vanished like a dream, and nothing remained but the mind
that had constructed it.

"Ah!" he groaned again and again, "why could not mind and memory perish also?"

But they remained, and were the only possessions left of his great wealth.

Then he began to think of his wife and Laura. He had beggared them, and, what was far worse,
he had darkened their lives with the shadow of his own disgrace. Wholly innocent as they were,
they must suffer untold wretchedness through his act. In his view he was the cause of the broken
engagement between his niece and the wealthy Mr. Beaumont, and now he saw that there was nothing
before the girl but a dreary effort to gain a livelihood by her own labor, and this effort
rendered almost hopeless by the reflected shame of his crime.

His wife also was growing old and feeble. At last he realized he had a wife such as is given
to but few men--a woman who was great enough to be tender and sympathetic through all the awful
weeks that had elapsed since the discovery of his crime--a woman who could face what she saw
before her and utter no words of repining or reproach.

He now saw how cold and hard and unappreciative he had been toward her in the days of his prosperity,
and he cursed himself and his unutterable folly.

Thus his great powerful mind turned in vindictive rage against itself. Memory began to show
him with mocking finger and bitter jibes where he might have acted more wisely in his business,
more wisely in his social relations, and especially more wisely and humanely, to say the least,
in his own home. It seemed to take a fiendish delight in telling him how everything might have
been different, and how he, instead of brooding in a prison cell, might have been the most
honored, useful, wealthy, and happy man in Hillaton.

Thus he was tortured until physical exhaustion brought him a brief respite of sleep. But the
next day it was the same wretched round of bitter memories and vain but torturing activity
of mind. Day after day passed and he grew haggard under his increasing mental distress. His
mind was like a great driving wheel, upon which all the tremendous motive power is turned without
cessation, but for which there is nothing to drive save the man himself, and seemingly it would
drive him mad.

At last he said to himself, "I cannot endure this. For my own sake, for the sake of my wife
and Laura, it were better that an utter blank should take the place of Thomas Arnot. I am,
and ever shall be, only a burden to them. I am coming to be an intolerable burden to myself."

The thought of suicide, once entertained, grew rapidly in favor, and at last it became only
a question how he could carry out his dark purpose. With this definite plan before him he grew
calmer. At last he had something to do in the future, and terrible memory must suspend for
a time its scorpion lash while he thought how best to carry out his plan.

The suicide about to take the risk of endless suffering is usually desirous that the intervening
moments of his "taking off" should be as painless as possible, and Mr. Arnot began to think
how he could make his exit momentary. But his more tranquil mood, the result of having some
definite action before him, led to sleep, and the long night passed in unconsciousness, the
weary body clogging the wheels of conscious thought.

The sun was shining when he awoke; but with returning consciousness came memory and pain, and
the old cowardly desire to escape all the consequences of his sin by death. He vowed he would
not live to see another day, and once more he commenced brooding over the one question, how
he would die. As he took up this question where he had dropped it the previous night, the thought
occurred to him what a long respite he had had from pain. Then like a flash of lightning came
another thought:

"Suppose by my self-destroying act I pass into a condition of life in which there is no sleep,
and memory can torture without cessation, without respite? True, I have tried to believe there
is no future life, but am I sure of it? Here I can obtain a little rest. For hours I have been
unconscious, through the weight of the body upon my spirit. How can I be sure that the spirit
cannot exist separately and suffer just the same? I am not suffering now through my body, and
have not been through all these terrible days. My body is here in this cell, inert and motionless,
painless, while in my mind I am enduring the torments of the damned. The respite from suffering
that I have had has come through the weariness of my body, and here I am planning to cast down
the one barrier that perhaps saves me from an eternity of torturing thought and memory."

He was appalled at the bare possibility of such a future; reason told him that such a future
was probable, and conscience told him that it was before him in veritable truth. He felt that
wherever he carried memory and his present character he would be most miserable, whether it
were in Dante's Inferno, Milton's Paradise, or the heaven or hell of the Bible.

There was no more thought of suicide. Indeed, he shrank from death with inexpressible dread.

Slowly his thoughts turned to his wife, the woman who had been so true to him, the one human
being of all the world who now stood by him. She might help him in his desperate strait. She
seemed to have a principle within her soul which sustained her, and which might sustain him.
At any rate, he longed to see her once more, and ask her forgiveness in deep contrition for
his base and lifelong failure to "love, honor, and cherish her," as he had promised at God's
altar and before many witnesses.

The devoted wife came and patiently entered on her ministry of love and Christian faith, and
out of the chaos of the fallen man of iron and stone there gradually emerged a new man, who
first became in Christ's expressive words "a little child" in spiritual things, that he might
grow naturally and in the symmetry of the enduring manhood which God designs to perfect in
the coming ages.

Mrs. Arnot's sturdy integrity led her to give up everything to her husband's creditors, and
she came to the city of her new abode wherein the prison was located almost penniless. But
she brought letters from Dr. Barstow, Mr. Ivison, and other Christian people of Hillaton. These
were presented at a church of the denomination to which she belonged, and all she asked was
some employment by which she and Laura could support themselves. These letters secured confidence
at once. There was no mystery--nothing concealed--and, although so shadowed by the disgrace
of another, the bearing of the ladies inspired respect and won sympathy. A gentleman connected
with the church gave Laura the position of saleswoman in his bookstore, and to Mrs. Arnot's
little suburban cottage of only three rooms kind and interested ladies brought sewing and fancy-work.
Thus they were provided for, as God's people ever are in some way.

Mrs. Arnot had written a long letter to Haldane before leaving Hillaton, giving a full account
of their troubles, with one exception. At Laura's request she had not mentioned the broken
engagement with Beaumont.

"If possible, I wish to see him myself before he knows," she had said. "At least, before any
correspondence takes place between us, I wish to look into his eyes, and if I see the faintest
trace of shrinking from me there, as I saw it in Mr. Beaumont's eyes, I will never marry him,
truly as I love him."

Mrs. Arnot's face had lighted up with its old-time expression, as she said:

"Laura, don't you know Egbert Haldane better than that?"

"I can't help it," she had replied with a troubled brow; "the manner of nearly every one has
changed so greatly that I must see him first."

Haldane did not receive Mrs. Arnot's first letter. He was at sea with his regiment, on his
way to the far Southwest, when the events in which he would have been so deeply interested
began to occur. After reaching his new scene of duty, there were constant alternations of march
and battle. In the terrible campaign that followed, the men of the army he was acting with
were decimated, and officers dropped out fast. In consequence, Haldane, who received but two
slight wounds, that did not disable him, was promoted rapidly. The colonel of the regiment
was killed soon after their arrival, and from the command of the regiment he rose, before the
campaign was over, to command a brigade, and then a division; and he performed his duties so
faithfully and ably that he was confirmed in this position.

Mrs. Arnot's first letter had followed him around for a time, and then was lost, like so many
others in that time of dire confusion. Her second letter after long delay reached him, but
it was very brief and hurried, and referred to troubles that he did not understand. From members
of his old regiment, however, rumors reached him of some disaster to Mr. Arnot, and wrong-doing
on his part, which had led to imprisonment.

Haldane was greatly shocked at the bare possibility of such events, and wrote a most sympathetic
letter to Mrs. Arnot, which never reached her. She had received some of his previous letters,
but not this one.

By the time the campaign was over one of Haldane's wounds began to trouble him very much, and
his health seemed generally broken down from exposure and overexertion. As a leave of absence
was offered him, he availed himself of it and took passage to New York.

Three or four letters from his mother had reached him, but that lady's causeless jealousy of
Mrs. Arnot had grown to such proportions that she never mentioned her old friend's name.

The long days of the homeward voyage were passed by Haldane in vain conjecture. Of one thing
he felt sure, and that was that Laura was by this time, or soon would be, Mrs. Beaumont; and
now that the excitement of military service was over, the thought rested on him with a weight
that was almost crushing.

One evening Mr. Growther was dozing as usual between his cat and dog, when some one lifted
the latch and walked in without the ceremony of knocking.

"Look here, stranger, where's yer manners?" snarled the old gentleman. Then catching a glimpse
of the well-remembered face, though now obscured by a tremendous beard, he started up, exclaiming,

"Lord a' massy! 'taint you, is it? And you compared yourself with that little, peaked-faced
chap that's around just the same--you with shoulders as broad as them are, and two stars on
'em too!"

The old man nearly went beside himself with joy. He gave the cat and dog each a vigorous kick,
and told them to "wake up and see if they could believe their eyes."

It was some time before Haldane could get him quieted down so as to answer all the questions
that he was longing to put; but at last he drew out the story in full of Mr. Arnot's forgery
and its consequences.

"Has Mr. Beaumont married Miss Romeyn?" at last he faltered.

"No; I reckon not," said Mr. Growther dryly.

"What do you mean?" asked Haldane sharply.

"Well, all I know is that he didn't marry her, and she ain't the kind of a girl to marry him,
whether he would or no, and so they ain't married."

"The infernal scoundrel!" thundered Haldane, springing to his feet. "The--"

"Hold on!" cried Mr. Growther. "O Lord a' massy! I half believe he's got to swearin' down in
the war. If he's backslid agin, nothin' but my little, peaked-faced chap will ever bring him
around a nuther time."

Haldane was stalking up and down the room in strong excitement and quite oblivious of Mr. Growther's
perplexity.

"The unutterable fool!" he exclaimed, "to part from such a woman as Laura Romeyn for any cause
save death."

"Well, hang it all! if he's a fool that's his business. What on 'arth is the matter with you?
I ain't used to havin' bombshells go off right under my nose as you be, and the way you are
explodin' round kinder takes away my breath."

"Forgive me, my old friend; but I never had a shot strike quite as close as this. Poor girl!
Poor girl! What a prospect she had a few months since. True enough, Beaumont was never a man
to my taste; but a woman sees no faults in the man she loves; and he could have given her everything
that her cultivated taste could wish for. Poor girl, she must be broken-hearted with all this
trouble and disappointment."

"If I was you, I'd go and see if she was," said Mr. Growther, with a shrewd twinkle in his
eyes. "I've heerd tell of hearts bein' mended in my day."

Haldane looked at him a moment, and, as he caught his old friend's meaning, he brought his
hand down on the table with a force that made everything in the old kitchen ring again.

"O Lord a' massy!" ejaculated Mr. Growther, hopping half out of his chair.

"Mr. Growther," said Haldane, starting up, "I came to have a very profound respect for your
sagacity and wisdom years ago, but to-night you have surpassed Solomon himself. I shall take
your most excellent advice at once and go and see."

"Not to-night--"

"Yes, I can yet catch the owl train to-night. Good-by for a short time."

"No wonder he took the rebs' works, if he went for 'em like that," chuckled Mr. Growther, as
he composed himself after the excitement of the unexpected visit. "Now I know what made him
look so long as if something was a-gnawin' at his heart; so I'm a-thinkin' there'll be two
hearts mended."

Haldane reached the city in which Mrs. Arnot resided early in the morning, and as he had no
clew to her residence, he felt that his best chance of hearing of her would be at the prison
itself, for he knew well that she would seek either to see or learn of her husband's welfare
almost daily. In answer to his inquiries, he was told that she would be sure to come to the
prison at such an hour in the evening since that was her custom.

He must get through the day the best he could, and so strolled off to the business part of
the city, where was located the leading hotel, and was followed by curious eyes and surmises.
Major-generals were not in the habit of inquiring at the prison after convicts' wives.

As he passed a bookstore, it occurred to him that an exciting story would help kill time, and
he sauntered in and commenced looking over the latest publications that were seductively arranged
near the door.

"I'll go to breakfast now, Miss," said the junior clerk who swept the store.

"Thank you. Oh, go quickly," murmured Laura Romeyn to herself, as with breathless interest
she watched the unconscious officer, waiting till he should look up and recognize her standing
behind a counter. She was destined to have her wish in very truth, for when he saw her he would
be so surely off his guard from surprise that she could see into the very depths of his heart.

Would he never look up? She put her hand to her side, for anticipation was so intense as to
become a pain. She almost panted from excitement. This was the supreme moment of her life,
but the very fact of his coming to this city promised well for the hope which fed her life.

"Ah, he is reading. The thought of some stranger holds him, while my intense thoughts and feelings
no more affect him than if I were a thousand miles away. How strong and manly he looks! How
well that uniform becomes him, though evidently worn and battle-stained! Ah! two stars upon
his shoulder! Can it be that he has won such high rank? What will he think of poor me, selling
books for bread? Egbert Haldane, beware! If you shrink from me now, even in the expression
of your eye, I stand aloof from you forever."

The man thus standing on the brink of fate, read leisurely on, smiling at some quaint fancy
of the author, who had gained his attention for a moment.

"Heigh ho!" he said at last," this stealing diversion from a book unbought is scarcely honest,
so I will--"

The book dropped from his hands, and he passed his hands across his eyes as if to brush away
a film. Then his face lighted up with all the noble and sympathetic feeling that Laura had
ever wished or hoped to see, and he sprang impetuously toward her.

"Miss Romeyn," he exclaimed. "Oh, this is better than I hoped."

"Did you hope to find me earning my bread in this humble way?" she faltered, deliciously conscious
that he was almost crushing her hand in a grasp that was all too friendly.

"I was hoping to find you--and Mrs. Arnot," he added with a sudden deepening of color. "I thought
a long day must elapse before I could learn of your residence."

"Do you know all?" she asked, very gravely.

"Yes, Miss Romeyn," he replied with moistening eyes, "I know all. Perhaps my past experience
enables me to sympathize with you more than others can. But be that as it may, I do give you
the whole sympathy of my heart; and for this brave effort to win your own bread I respect and
honor you more, if possible, than I did when you were in your beautiful home at Hillaton."

Laura's tears were now falling fast, but she was smiling nevertheless, and she said, hesitatingly:

"I do not consider myself such a deplorable object of sympathy; I have good health, a kind
employer, enough to live upon, and a tolerably clear conscience. Of course I do feel deeply
for auntie and uncle, and yet I think auntie is happier than she has been for many years. If
all had remained as it was at Hillaton, the ice around uncle's heart would have grown harder
and thicker to the end; now it is melting away, and auntie's thoughts reach so far beyond time
and earth, that she is forgetting the painful present in thoughts of the future."

"I have often asked myself," exclaimed Haldane, "could God have made a nobler woman? Ah! Miss
Laura, you do not know how much I owe to her."

"You have taught us that God can make noble men also."

"I have merely done my duty," he said, with a careless gesture. "When can I see Mrs. Arnot?"

"I can't go home till noon, but I think I can direct you to the house."

"Can I not stay and help you sell books? Then I can go home with you."

"A major-general behind the counter selling books would make a sensation in town, truly."

"If the people were of my way of thinking, Miss Laura Romeyn selling books would make a far
greater sensation."

"Very few are of your way of thinking, Mr. Haldane."

"I am heartily glad of it," he ejaculated.

"Indeed!"

"Pardon me, Miss Romeyn" he said with a deep flush, "you do not understand what I mean." Then
he burst out impetuously, "Miss Laura, I cannot school myself into patience. I have been in
despair so many years that since I now dare to imagine that there is a bare chance for me,
I cannot wait decorously for some fitting occasion. But if you can give me even the faintest
hope I will be patience and devotion itself."

"Hope of what?" said Laura faintly, turning away her face.

"Oh, Miss Laura, I ask too much," he answered sadly.

"You have not asked anything very definitely, Mr. Haldane," she faltered.

"I ask for the privilege of trying to win you as my wife."

"Ah, Egbert," she cried, joyously, "you have stood the test; for if you had shrunk, even in
your thoughts, from poor, penniless Laura Romeyn, with her uncle in yonder prison, you might
have tried in vain to win me."

"God knows I did not shrink," he said eagerly, and reaching out his hand across the counter.

"I know it too," she said shyly.

"Laura, all that I am, or ever can be, goes with that hand."

She put her hand in his, and looking into his face with an expression which he had never seen
before, she said:

"Egbert, I have loved you ever since you went, as a true knight, to the aid of cousin Amy."

And thus they plighted their faith to each other across the counter, and then he came around
on her side.

We shall not attempt to portray the meeting between Mrs. Arnot and one whom she had learned
to look upon as a son, and who loved her with an affection that had its basis in the deepest
gratitude.

Our story is substantially ended. It only remains to be said that Haldane, by every means in
his power, showed gentle and forbearing consideration for his mother's feelings, and thus she
was eventually led to be reconciled to his choice, if not to approve of it.

"After all, it is just like Egbert," she said to her daughters, "and we will have to make the
best of it."

Haldane's leave of absence passed all too quickly, and in parting he said to Laura:

"You think I have faced some rather difficult duties before, but there was never one that could
compare with leaving you for the uncertainties of a soldier's life."

But he went nevertheless, and remained till the end of the war.

Not long after going to the front he was taken prisoner in a disastrous battle, but he found
means of informing his old friend Dr. Orton of the fact. Although the doctor was a rebel to
the backbone, he swore he would "break up the Confederacy" if Haldane was not released, and
through his influence the young man was soon brought to his friend's hospitable home, where
he found Amy installed as housekeeper. She was now Mrs. Orton, for her lover returned as soon
as it was safe for him to do so after the end of the epidemic. He was now away in the army,
and thus Haldane did not meet him at that time; but later in the conflict Colonel Orton in
turn became a prisoner of war, and Haldane was able to return the kindness which he received
on this occasion. Mrs. Poland resided with Amy, and they both were most happy to learn that
they would eventually have a relative as well as friend in their captive, for never was a prisoner
of war made more of than Haldane up to the time of his exchange.

Years have passed. The agony of the war has long been over. Not only peace but prosperity is
once more prevailing throughout the land.

Mr. and Mrs. Arnot reside in their old home, but Mrs. Egbert Haldane is its mistress. Much
effort was made to induce Mr. Growther to take up his abode there also, but he would not leave
the quaint old kitchen, where he said "the little peaked-faced chap was sittin' beside him
all the time."

At last he failed and was about to die. Looking up into Mrs. Arnot's face, he said:

"I don't think a bit better of myself. I'm twisted all out o' shape. But the little chap has
taught me how the Good Father will receive me."

The wealthiest people of Hillaton are glad to obtain the services of Dr. Haldane, and to pay
for them; they are glad to welcome him to their homes when his busy life permits him to come;
but the proudest citizen must wait when Christ, in the person of the poorest and lowliest,
sends word to this knightly man, "I am sick or in prison"; "I am naked or hungry."

THE END