By virtue, therefore, of his prerogative royal, and in consideration of the rents, covenants,
and agreements therein expressed, His Majesty granted to William Wood, his executors, assigns,
etc., "full, free, sole, and absolute power, privilege, licence, and authority," during fourteen
years, from the annunciation of the Blessed Virgin, 1722, to coin halfpence and farthings of
copper, to be uttered and disposed of in Ireland, and not elsewhere. It was provided that the
whole quantity coined should not exceed 360 tons of copper, whereof 100 tons only were to be
coined in the first year, and 20 tons in each of the last thirteen, said farthings and halfpence
to be of good, pure, and merchantable copper, and of such size and bigness, that one avoirdupois
pound weight of copper should not be converted into more farthings and halfpence than would
make thirty pence by tale; all the said farthings and halfpence to be of equal weight in themselves,
or as near thereunto as might be, allowing a remedy not exceeding two farthings over or under
in each pound. The same "to pass and to be received as current money, by such as shall or will,
voluntarily and willingly, and not otherwise, receive the same, within the said kingdom of
Ireland, and not elsewhere." Wood also covenanted to pay to the King's clerk or comptroller
of the coinage, £200 yearly, and £100 per annum into his Majesty's treasury.

Most of the accounts of this transaction and its consequent agitation in Ireland, particularly
those given by Sir W. Scott and Earl Stanhope, are taken from Coxe's "Life of Walpole." Monck
Mason, however, in his various notes appended to his life of Swift, has once and for all placed
Coxe's narrative in its true light, and exposed the specious special pleading on behalf of
his hero, Walpole. But even Coxe cannot hide the fact that the granting of the patent and the
circumstances under which it was granted, amounted to a disgraceful job, by which an opportunity
was seized to benefit a "noble person" in England at the expense of Ireland. The patent was
really granted to the King's mistress, the Duchess of Kendal, who sold it to William Wood for
the sum of £10,000, and (as it was reported with, probably, much truth) for a share in the
profits of the coining. The job was alluded to by Swift when he wrote:

"When late a feminine magician, Join'd with a brazen politician, Expos'd, to blind a nation's
eyes, A parchment of prodigious size."

Coxe endeavors to exonerate Walpole from the disgrace attached to this business, by expatiating
on Carteret's opposition to Walpole, an opposition which went so far as to attempt to injure
the financial minister's reputation by fomenting jealousies and using the Wood patent agitation
to arouse against him the popular indignation; but this does not explain away the fact itself.
He lays some blame for the agitation on Wood's indiscretion in flaunting his rights and publicly
boasting of what the great minister would do for him. At the same time he takes care to censure
the government for its misconduct in not consulting with the Lord Lieutenant and his Privy
Council before granting the patent. His censure, however, is founded on the consideration that
this want of attention was injudicious and was the cause of the spread of exaggerated rumours
of the patent's evil tendency. He has nothing to say of the rights and liberties of a people
which had thereby been infringed and ignored.

