Once this little bad boy stole the key of the pantry, and slipped in there and helped himself
to some jam, and filled up the vessel with tar, so that his mother would never know the difference;
but all at once a terrible feeling didn't come over him, and something didn't seem to whisper
to him, "Is it right to disobey my mother?  Isn't it sinful to do this?  Where do bad little
boys go who gobble up their good kind mother's jam?" and then he didn't kneel down all alone
and promise never to be wicked any more, and rise up with a light, happy heart, and go and
tell his mother all about it, and beg her forgiveness, and be blessed by her with tears of
pride and thankfulness in her eyes.  No; that is the way with all other bad boys in the books;
but it happened otherwise with this Jim, strangely enough.  He ate that jam, and said it was
bully, in his sinful, vulgar way; and he put in the tar, and said that was bully also, and
laughed, and observed "that the old woman would get up and snort" when she found it out; and
when she did find it out, he denied knowing anything about it, and she whipped him severely,
and he did the crying himself.  Everything about this boy was curious--everything turned out
differently with him from the way it does to the bad Jameses in the books.

Once he climbed up in Farmer Acorn's apple tree to steal apples, and the limb didn't break,
and he didn't fall and break his arm, and get torn by the farmer's great dog, and then languish
on a sickbed for weeks, and repent and become good.  Oh, no; he stole as many apples as he
wanted and came down all right; and he was all ready for the dog, too, and knocked him endways
with a brick when he came to tear him.  It was very strange --nothing like it ever happened
in those mild little books with marbled backs, and with pictures in them of men with swallow-tailed
coats and bell-crowned hats, and pantaloons that are short in the legs, and women with the
waists of their dresses under their arms, and no hoops on. Nothing like it in any of the Sunday-school
books.

Once he stole the teacher's penknife, and, when he was afraid it would be found out and he
would get whipped, he slipped it into George Wilson's cap poor Widow Wilson's son, the moral
boy, the good little boy of the village, who always obeyed his mother, and never told an untruth,
and was fond of his lessons, and infatuated with Sunday-school.  And when the knife dropped
from the cap, and poor George hung his head and blushed, as if in conscious guilt, and the
grieved teacher charged the theft upon him, and was just in the very act of bringing the switch
down upon his trembling shoulders, a white-haired, improbable justice of the peace did not
suddenly appear in their midst, and strike an attitude and say, "Spare this noble boy--there
stands the cowering culprit!  I was passing the school door at recess, and, unseen myself,
I saw the theft committed!"  And then Jim didn't get whaled, and the venerable justice didn't
read the tearful school a homily, and take George by the hand and say such boy deserved to
be exalted, and then tell him come and make his home with him, and sweep out the office, and
make fires, and run errands, and chop wood, and study law, and help his wife do household labors,
and have all the balance of the time to play and get forty cents a month, and be happy.  No
it would have happened that way in the books, but didn't happen that way to Jim.  No meddling
old clam of a justice dropped in to make trouble, and so the model boy George got thrashed,
and Jim was glad of it because, you know, Jim hated moral boys.  Jim said he was "down on them
milksops."  Such was the coarse language of this bad, neglected boy.

But the strangest thing that ever happened to Jim was the time he went boating on Sunday, and
didn't get drowned, and that other time that he got caught out in the storm when he was fishing
on Sunday and didn't get struck by lightning.  Why, you might look, and look, all through the
Sunday-school books from now till next Christmas, and you would never come across anything
like this.  Oh, no; you would find that all the bad boys who go boating on Sunday invariably
get drowned; and all the bad boys who get caught out in storms when they are fishing on Sunday
infallibly get struck by lightning.  Boats with bad boys in them always upset on Sunday, and
it always storms when bad boys go fishing on the Sabbath.  How this Jim ever escaped is a 
mystery to me.

This Jim bore a charmed life--that must have been the way of it.  Nothing could hurt him. 
He even gave the elephant in the menagerie a plug of tobacco, and the elephant didn't knock
the top of his head off with his trunk.  He browsed around the cupboard after essence-of peppermint,
and didn't make a mistake and drink aqua fortis.  He stole his father's gun and went hunting
on the Sabbath, and didn't shoot three or four of his fingers off.  He struck his little sister
on the temple with his fist when he was angry, and she didn't linger in pain through long summer
days, and die with sweet words of forgiveness upon her lips that redoubled the anguish of his
breaking heart.  No; she got over it.  He ran off and went to sea at last, and didn't come
back and find himself sad and alone in the world, his loved ones sleeping in the quiet churchyard,
and the vine-embowered home of his boyhood tumbled down and gone to decay.  Ah, no; he came
home as drunk as a piper, and got into the station-house the first thing.

And he grew up and married, and raised a large family, and brained them all with an ax one
night, and got wealthy by all manner of cheating and rascality; and now he is the infernalest
wickedest scoundrel in his native village, and is universally respected, and belongs to the
legislature.

So you see there never was a bad James in the Sunday-school books that had such a streak of
luck as this sinful Jim with the charmed life.

THE STORY OF THE GOOD LITTLE BOY--[Written about 1865]

Once there was a good little boy by the name of Jacob Blivens.  He always obeyed his parents,
no matter how absurd and unreasonable their demands were; and he always learned his book, and
never was late at Sabbath-school.  He would not play hookey, even when his sober judgment told
him it was the most profitable thing he could do.  None of the other boys could ever make that
boy out, he acted so strangely.  He wouldn't lie, no matter how convenient it was.  He just
said it was wrong to lie, and that was sufficient for him.  And he was so honest that he was
simply ridiculous.  The curious ways that that Jacob had, surpassed everything. He wouldn't
play marbles on Sunday, he wouldn't rob birds' nests, he wouldn't give hot pennies to organ-grinders'
monkeys; he didn't seem to take any interest in any kind of rational amusement.  So the other
boys used to try to reason it out and come to an understanding of him, but they couldn't arrive
at any satisfactory conclusion.  As I said before, they could only figure out a sort of vague
idea that he was "afflicted," and so they took him under their protection, and never allowed
any harm to come to him.

This good little boy read all the Sunday-school books; they were his greatest delight.  This
was the whole secret of it.  He believed in the good little boys they put in the Sunday-school
book; he had every confidence in them.  He longed to come across one of them alive once; but
he never did.  They all died before his time, maybe.  Whenever he read about a particularly
good one he turned over quickly to the end to see what became of him, because he wanted to
travel thousands of miles and gaze on him; but it wasn't any use; that good little boy always
died in the last chapter, and there was a picture of the funeral, with all his relations and
the Sunday-school children standing around the grave in pantaloons that were too short, and
bonnets that were too large, and everybody crying into handkerchiefs that had as much as a
yard and a half of stuff in them.  He was always headed off in this way.  He never could see
one of those good little boys on account of his always dying in the last chapter.

Jacob had a noble ambition to be put in a Sunday school book.  He wanted to be put in, with
pictures representing him gloriously declining to lie to his mother, and her weeping for joy
about it; and pictures representing him standing on the doorstep giving a penny to a poor beggar-woman
with six children, and telling her to spend it freely, but not to be extravagant, because extravagance
is a sin; and pictures of him magnanimously refusing to tell on the bad boy who always lay
in wait for him around the corner as he came from school, and welted him so over the head with
a lath, and then chased him home, saying, "Hi! hi!" as he proceeded.  That was the ambition
of young Jacob Blivens.  He wished to be put in a Sunday-school book.  It made him feel a lithe
uncomfortable sometimes when he reflected that the good little boys always died.  He loved
to live, you know, and this was the most unpleasant feature about being a Sunday-school-boo
boy.  He knew it was not healthy to be good. He knew it was more fatal than consumption to
be so supernaturally good as the boys in the books were he knew that none of them had ever
been able to stand it long, and it pained him to think that if they put him in a book he wouldn't
ever see it, or even if they did get the book out before he died it wouldn't be popular without
any picture of his funeral in the back part of it.  It couldn't be much of a Sunday-school
book that couldn't tell about the advice he gave to the community when he was dying.  So at
last, of course, he had to make up his mind to do the best he could under the circumstances--to
live right, and hang on as long as he could and have his dying speech all ready when his time came.

But somehow nothing ever went right with the good little boy; nothing ever turned out with
him the way it turned out with the good little boys in the books.  They always had a good time,
and the bad boys had the broken legs; but in his case there was a screw loose somewhere, and
it all happened just the other way.  When he found Jim Blake stealing apples, and went under
the tree to read to him about the bad little boy who fell out of a neighbor's apple tree and
broke his arm, Jim fell out of the tree, too, but he fell on him and broke his arm, and Jim
wasn't hurt at all.  Jacob couldn't understand that.  There wasn't anything in the books like it.

And once, when some bad boys pushed a blind man over in the mud, and Jacob ran to help him
up and receive his blessing, the blind man did not give him any blessing at all, but whacked
him over the head with his stick and said he would like to catch him shoving him again, and
then pretending to help him up.  This was not in accordance with any of the books.  Jacob looked
them all over to see.

One thing that Jacob wanted to do was to find a lame dog that hadn't any place to stay, and
was hungry and persecuted, and bring him home and pet him and have that dog's imperishable
gratitude.  And at last he found one and was happy; and he brought him home and fed him, but
when he was going to pet him the dog flew at him and tore all the clothes off him except those
that were in front, and made a spectacle of him that was astonishing.  He examined authorities,
but he could not understand the matter.  It was of the same breed of dogs that was in the books,
but it acted very differently.  Whatever this boy did he got into trouble.  The very things
the boys in the books got rewarded for turned out to be about the most unprofitable things
he could invest in.

Once, when he was on his way to Sunday-school, he saw some bad boys starting off pleasuring
in a sailboat.  He was filled with consternation, because he knew from his reading that boys
who went sailing on Sunday invariably got drowned.  So he ran out on a raft to warn them, but
a log turned with him and slid him into the river.  A man got him out pretty soon, and the
doctor pumped the water out of him, and gave him a fresh start with his bellows, but he caught
cold and lay sick abed nine weeks. But the most unaccountable thing about it was that the bad
boys in the boat had a good time all day, and then reached home alive and well in the most
surprising manner.  Jacob Blivens said there was nothing like these things in the books.  He
was perfectly dumfounded.

When he got well he was a little discouraged, but he resolved to keep on trying anyhow.  He
knew that so far his experiences wouldn't do to go in a book, but he hadn't yet reached the
allotted term of life for good little boys, and he hoped to be able to make a record yet if
he could hold on till his time was fully up.  If everything else failed he had his dying speech
to fall back on.

He examined his authorities, and found that it was now time for him to go to sea as a cabin-boy.
He called on a ship-captain and made his application, and when the captain asked for his recommendations
he proudly drew out a tract and pointed to the word, "To Jacob Blivens, from his affectionate
teacher."  But the captain was a coarse, vulgar man, and he said, "Oh, that be blowed! that
wasn't any proof that he knew how to wash dishes or handle a slush-bucket, and he guessed he
didn't want him." This was altogether the most extraordinary thing that ever happened to Jacob
in all his life.  A compliment from a teacher, on a tract, had never failed to move the tenderest
emotions of ship-captains, and open the way to all offices of honor and profit in their gift
it never had in any book that ever he had read.  He could hardly believe his senses.

This boy always had a hard time of it.  Nothing ever came out according to the authorities
with him.  At last, one day, when he was around hunting up bad little boys to admonish, he
found a lot of them in the old iron-foundry fixing up a little joke on fourteen or fifteen
dogs, which they had tied together in long procession, and were going to ornament with empty
nitroglycerin cans made fast to their tails.  Jacob's heart was touched.  He sat down on one
of those cans (for he never minded grease when duty was before him), and he took hold of the
foremost dog by the collar, and turned his reproving eye upon wicked Tom Jones.  But just at
that moment Alderman McWelter, full of wrath, stepped in.  All the bad boys ran away, but Jacob
Blivens rose in conscious innocence and began one of those stately little Sunday-school-book
speeches which always commence with "Oh, sir!" in dead opposition to the fact that no boy,
good or bad, ever starts a remark with "Oh, sir."  But the alderman never waited to hear the
rest.  He took Jacob Blivens by the ear and turned him around, and hit him a whack in the rear
with the flat of his hand; and in an instant that good little boy shot out through the roof
and soared away toward the sun with the fragments of those fifteen dogs stringing after him
like the tail of a kite.  And there wasn't a sign of that alderman or that old iron-foundry
left on the face of the earth; and, as for young Jacob Blivens, he never got a chance to make
his last dying speech after all his trouble fixing it up, unless he made it to the birds; because,
although the bulk of him came down all right in a tree-top in an adjoining county, the rest
of him was apportioned around among four townships, and so they had to hold five inquests on
him to find out whether he was dead or not, and how it occurred.  You never saw a boy scattered
so.--[This glycerin catastrophe is borrowed from a floating newspaper item, whose author's
name I would give if I knew it.--M. T.]

Thus perished the good little boy who did the best he could, but didn't come out according
to the books.  Every boy who ever did as he did prospered except him.  His case is truly remarkable.
It will probably never be accounted for.

                         THOSE ANNUAL BILLS

                           BY MARK TWAIN

               These annual bills! these annual bills!
               How many a song their discord trills
               Of "truck" consumed, enjoyed, forgot,
               Since I was skinned by last year's lot!

               Those joyous beans are passed away;
               Those onions blithe, O where are they?
               Once loved, lost, mourned--now vexing ILLS
               Your shades troop back in annual bills!

               And so 'twill be when I'm aground
               These yearly duns will still go round,
               While other bards, with frantic quills,
               Shall damn and damn these annual bills!

The noble Red Man has always been a friend and darling of mine.  I love to read about him in
tales and legends and romances.  I love to read of his inspired sagacity, and his love of the
wild free life of mountain and forest, and his general nobility of character, and his stately
metaphorical manner of speech, and his chivalrous love for the dusky maiden, and the picturesque
pomp of his dress and accoutrements. Especially the picturesque pomp of his dress and accoutrements.
When I found the shops at Niagara Falls full of dainty Indian beadwork, and stunning moccasins,
and equally stunning toy figures representing human beings who carried their weapons in holes
bored through their arms and bodies, and had feet shaped like a pie, I was filled with emotion.
I knew that now, at last, I was going to come face to face with the noble Red Man.

A lady clerk in a shop told me, indeed, that all her grand array of curiosities were made by
the Indians, and that they were plenty about the Falls, and that they were friendly, and it
would not be dangerous to speak to them.  And sure enough, as I approached the bridge leading
over to Luna Island, I came upon a noble Son of the Forest sitting under a tree, diligently
at work on a bead reticule.  He wore a slouch hat and brogans, and had a short black pipe in
his mouth.  Thus does the baneful contact with our effeminate civilization dilute the picturesque
pomp which is so natural to the Indian when far removed from us in his native haunts.  I addressed
the relic as follows:

"Is the Wawhoo-Wang-Wang of the Whack-a-Whack happy?  Does the great Speckled Thunder sigh
for the war-path, or is his heart contented with dreaming of the dusky maiden, the Pride of
the Forest?  Does the mighty Sachem yearn to drink the blood of his enemies, or is he satisfied
to make bead reticules for the pappooses of the paleface?  Speak, sublime relic of bygone grandeur--venerable
ruin, speak!"

The relic said:

"An' is it mesilf, Dennis Hooligan, that ye'd be takon' for a dirty Injin, ye drawlin', lantern-jawed,
spider-legged divil!  By the piper that played before Moses, I'll ate ye!"

I went away from there.

By and by, in the neighborhood of the Terrapin Tower, I came upon a gentle daughter of the
aborigines in fringed and beaded buckskin moccasins and leggins, seated on a bench with her
pretty wares about her. She had just carved out a wooden chief that had a strong family resemblance
to a clothes-pin, and was now boring a hole through his abdomen to put his bow through.  I
hesitated a moment, and then addressed her:

