The "France" is a good hotel, and its host is one of the kindest of mortals, but it is in many
ways Russian rather than Continental in its atmosphere. That ought to have pleased and excited
so sympathetic a soul as Henry. I am afraid that this moment of his arrival was the first realisation
in his life of that stern truth that that which seems romantic in retrospect is only too often
unpleasantly realistic in its actual experience.

He stepped into the dark hall, damp like a well, with a whirring snarling clock on the wall
and a heavy glass door pulled by a rope swinging and shifting, the walls and door and rack
with the letters shifting too. In this rocking world there seemed to be no stable thing. He
was dirty and tired and humiliated. He explained to his host, who smiled but seemed to be thinking
of other things, that he wanted a bath and a room and a meal. He was promised these things,
but there was no conviction abroad that the "France" had gone up in the world since Henry Bohun
had crossed its threshold. An old man with a grey beard and the fixed and glittering eye of
the "Ancient Mariner" told him to follow him. How well I know those strange, cold, winding
passages of the "France," creeping in and out across boards that shiver and shake, with walls
pressing in upon you so thin and rocky that the wind whistles and screams and the paper makes
ghostly shadows and signs as though unseen fingers moved it. There is that smell, too, which
a Russian hotel alone, of all the hostelries in the world, can produce, a smell of damp and
cabbage soup, of sunflower seeds and cigarette-ends, of drainage and patchouli, of, in some
odd way, the sea and fish and wet pavements. It is a smell that will, until I die, be presented
to me by those dark half-hidden passages, warrens of intricate fumbling ways with boards suddenly
rising like little mountains in the path; behind the wainscot one hears the scuttling of innumerable
rats.

The Ancient Mariner showed Henry to his room and left him. Henry was depressed at what he saw.
His room was a slip cut out of other rooms, and its one window was faced by a high black wall
down whose surface gleaming water trickled. The bare boards showed large and gaping cracks;
there was a washstand, a bed, a chest of drawers, and a faded padded arm-chair with a hole
in it. In the corner near the window was an Ikon of tinsel and wood; a little round marble-topped
table offered a dusty carafe of water. A heavy red-plush bell-rope tapped the wall.

He sat down in the faded arm-chair and instantly fell asleep. Was the room hypnotic? Why not?
There are stranger things than that in Petrograd.... I myself am aware of what walls and streets
and rivers, engaged on their own secret life in that most secret of towns, can do to the mere
mortals who interfere with their stealthy concerns. Henry dreamt; he was never afterwards able
to tell me of what he had dreamt, but it had been a long heavy cobwebby affair, in which the
walls of the hotel seemed to open and to close, black little figures moving like ants up and
down across the winding ways. He saw innumerable carafes and basins and beds, the wall-paper
whistling, the rats scuttling, and lines of cigarette-ends, black and yellow, moving in trails
like worms across the boards. All men like worms, like ants, like rats and the gleaming water
trickling interminably down the high black wall. Of course he was tired after his long journey,
hungry too, and depressed.... He awoke to find the Ancient Mariner watching him. He screamed.
The Mariner reassured him with a toothless smile, gripped him by the arm and showed him the
bathroom.

"Pajaluista!" said the Mariner.

Although Henry had learnt Russian, so unexpected was the pronunciation of this familiar word
that it was as though the old man had said "Open Sesame!"....

V

He felt happy and consoled after a bath, a shave, and breakfast. Always I should think he reacted
very quickly to his own physical sensations, and he was, as yet, too young to know that you
cannot lay ghosts by the simple brushing of your hair and sponging your face. After his breakfast
he lay down on the bed and again fell asleep, but this time not to dream; he slept like a Briton,
dreamless, healthy and clean. He awoke as sure of himself as ever.... The first incantation
had not, you see, been enough....

He plunged into the city. It was raining with that thick dark rain that seems to have mud in
it before it has fallen. The town was veiled in thin mist, figures appearing and disappearing,
tram-bells ringing, and those strange wild cries in the Russian tongue that seem at one's first
hearing so romantic and startling, rising sharply and yet lazily into the air. He plunged along
and found himself in the Nevski Prospect--he could not mistake its breadth and assurance, dull
though it seemed in the mud and rain.

But he was above all things a romantic and sentimental youth, and he was determined to see
this country as he had expected to see it; so he plodded on, his coat-collar up, British obstinacy
in his eyes and a little excited flutter in his heart whenever a bright colour, an Eastern
face, a street pedlar, a bunched-up, high-backed coachman, anything or any one unusual presented
itself.

He saw on his right a great church; it stood back from the street, having in front of it a
desolate little arrangement of bushes and public seats and winding paths. The church itself
was approached by flights of steps that disappeared under the shadow of a high dome supported
by vast stone pillars. Letters in gold flamed across the building above the pillars.

Henry passed the intervening ground and climbed the steps. Under the pillars before the heavy,
swinging doors were two rows of beggars; they were dirtier, more touzled and tangled, fiercer
and more ironically falsely submissive than any beggars that, he had ever seen. He described
one fellow to me, a fierce brigand with a high black hat of feathers, a soiled Cossack coat
and tall dirty red leather boots; his eyes were fires, Henry said. At any rate that is what
Henry liked to think they were. There was a woman with no legs and a man with neither nose
nor ears. I am sure that they watched Henry with supplicating hostility. He entered the church
and was instantly swallowed up by a vast multitude.

He described to me afterwards that it was as though he had been pushed (by the evil, eager
fingers of the beggars no doubt) into deep water. He rose with a gasp, and was first conscious
of a strange smell of dirt and tallow and something that he did not know, but was afterwards
to recognise as the scent of sunflower seed. He was pushed upon, pressed and pulled, fingered
and crushed. He did not mind--he was glad--this was what he wanted. He looked about him and
found that he and all the people round him were swimming in a hazy golden mist flung into the
air from the thousands of lighted candles that danced in the breeze blowing through the building.
The whole vast shining floor was covered with peasants, pressed, packed together. Peasants,
men and women--he did not see a single member of the middle-class. In front of him under the
altar there was a blaze of light, and figures moved in the blaze uncertainly, indistinctly.
Now and then a sudden quiver passed across the throng, as wind blows through the corn. Here
and there men and women knelt, but for the most part they stood steadfast, motionless, staring
in front of them. He looked at them and discovered that they had the faces of children--simple,
trustful, unintelligent, unhumorous children,--and eyes, always kindlier than any he had ever
seen in other human beings. They stood there gravely, with no signs of religious fervour, with
no marks of impatience or weariness and also with no evidence of any especial interest in what
was occurring. It might have been a vast concourse of sleep-walkers.

He saw that three soldiers near to him were holding hands....

From the lighted altars came the echoing whisper of a monotonous chant. The sound rose and
fell, scarcely a voice, scarcely an appeal, something rising from the place itself and sinking
back into it again without human agency.

After a time he saw a strange movement that at first he could not understand. Then watching,
he found that unlit candles were being passed from line to line, one man leaning forward and
tapping the man in front of him with the candle, the man in front passing it, in his turn,
forward, and so on until at last it reached the altar where it was lighted and fastened into
its sconce. This tapping with the candles happened incessantly throughout the vast crowd. Henry
himself was tapped, and felt suddenly as though he had been admitted a member of some secret
society. He felt the tap again and again, and soon he seemed to be hypnotised by the low chant
at the altar and the motionless silent crowd and the dim golden mist. He stood, not thinking,
not living, away, away, questioning nothing, wanting nothing....

He must of course finish with his romantic notion. People pushed around him, struggling to
get out. He turned to go and was faced, he told me, with a remarkable figure. His description,
romantic and sentimental though he tried to make it, resolved itself into nothing more than
the sketch of an ordinary peasant, tall, broad, black-bearded, neatly clad in blue shirt, black
trousers, and high boots. This fellow stood apparently away from the crowd, apart, and watched
it all, as you so often may see the Russian peasant doing, with indifferent gaze. In his mild
blue eyes Bohun fancied that he saw all kinds of things--power, wisdom, prophecy--a figure
apart and symbolic. But how easy in Russia it is to see symbols and how often those symbols
fail to justify themselves! Well, I let Bohun have his fancies. "I should know that man anywhere
again," he declared. "It was as though he knew what was going to happen and was ready for it."
Then I suppose he saw my smile, for he broke off and said no more.

And here for a moment I leave him and his adventures.

VI

I must speak, for a moment, of myself. Throughout the autumn and winter of 1914 and the spring
and summer of 1915 I was with the Russian Red Cross on the Polish and Galician fronts. During
the summer and early autumn of 1915 I shared with the Ninth Army the retreat through Galicia.
Never very strong physically, owing to a lameness of the left hip from which I have suffered
from birth, the difficulties of the retreat and the loss of my two greatest friends gave opportunities
to my arch-enemy Sciatica to do what he wished with me, and in October 1915 I was forced to
leave the Front and return to Petrograd. I was an invalid throughout the whole of that winter,
and only gradually during the spring of 1916 was able to pull myself back to an old shadow
of my former vigour and energy. I saw that I would never be good for the Front again, but I
minded that the less now in that the events of the summer of 1915 had left me without heart
or desire, the merest spectator of life, passive and, I cynically believed, indifferent. I
was nothing to any one, nor was any one anything to me. The desire of my heart had slipped
like a laughing ghost away from my ken--men of my slow warmth and cautious suspicion do not
easily admit a new guest....

