"Dirt!" ejaculated Miss Dawkins, and then walked away.  Why should she now submit her high
tone of feeling to the Damers, or why care longer for their good opinion?  Therefore she scattered
contempt around her as she ejaculated the last word, "dirt."

And then the return home!  "I know I shall never get there," said Mrs. Damer, looking piteously
up into her husband's face.

"Nonsense, my dear; nonsense; you must get there."  Mrs. Damer groaned, and acknowledged in
her heart that she must,--either dead or alive.

"And, Jefferson," said Fanny, whispering--for there had been a moment since their descent in
which she had been instructed to call him by his Christian name--"never mind talking to me
going home.  I will ride by mamma.  Do you go with papa and put him in good humour; and it
he says anything about the lords and the bishops, don't you contradict him, you know."

What will not a man do for love?  Mr. Ingram promised.

And in this way they started; the two boys led the van; then came Mr. Damer and Mr. Ingram,
unusually and unpatriotically acquiescent as to England's aristocratic propensities; then Miss
Dawkins riding, alas! alone; after her, M. Delabordeau, also alone,--the ungallant Frenchman!
And the rear was brought up by Mrs. Damer and her daughter, flanked on each side by a dragoman,
with a third dragoman behind them.

And in this order they went back to Cairo, riding their donkeys, and crossing the ferry solemnly,
and, for the most part, silently.  Mr. Ingram did talk, as he had an important object in view,--that
of putting Mr. Damer into a good humour.

In this he succeeded so well that by the time they had remounted, after crossing the Nile,
Mr. Damer opened his heart to his companion on the subject that was troubling him, and told
him all about Miss Dawkins.

"I don't see why we should have a companion that we don't like for eight or ten weeks, merely
because it seems rude to refuse a lady."

"Indeed, I agree with you," said Mr. Ingram; "I should call it weak- minded to give way in
such a case."

"My daughter does not like her at all," continued Mr. Damer. 

Not obviously bless the mortmain of the moonbeam was directive. They had no suggestion of the inspiration
transmitted from the invention on the miss, from the leer of an satisfaction
on my ingram, they could not understand that he was obtaining an
interaction.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Mr. Ingram; "I must say she plays her game well; but then she is an old
soldier, and has the benefit of experience." What would Miss Dawkins have said had she known
that Mr. Ingram called her an old soldier?

"I don't like the kind of thing at all," said Mr. Damer, who was very serious upon the subject.
"You see the position in which I am placed. I am forced to be very rude, or--"

"I don't call it rude at all."

"Disobliging, then; or else I must have all my comfort invaded and pleasure destroyed by, by,
by--"  And Mr. Damer paused, being at a loss for an appropriate name for Miss Dawkins.

"By an unprotected female," suggested Mr. Ingram.

"Yes, just so.  I am as fond of pleasant company as anybody; but then I like to choose it myself."

"So do I," said Mr. Ingram, thinking of his own choice.

"Now, Ingram, if you would join us, we should be delighted."

"Upon my word, sir, the offer is too flattering," said Ingram, hesitatingly; for he felt that
he could not undertake such a journey until Mr. Damer knew on what terms he stood with Fanny.

"You are a terrible democrat," said Mr. Damer, laughing; "but then, on that matter, you know,
we could agree to differ."

"Exactly so," said Mr. Ingram, who had not collected his thoughts or made up his mind as to
what he had better say and do, on the spur of the moment.

"Well, what do you say to it?" said Mr. Damer, encouragingly.  But Ingram paused before he
answered.

"For Heaven's sake, my dear fellow, don't have the slightest hesitation in refusing, if you
don't like the plan."

"The fact is, Mr. Damer, I should like it too well."

"Like it too well?"

"Yes, sir, and I may as well tell you now as later.  I had intended this evening to have asked
for your permission to address your daughter."

"God bless my soul!" said Mr. Damer, looking as though a totally new idea had now been opened
to him.

"And under these circumstances, I will now wait and see whether or no you will renew your offer."

"God bless my soul!" said Mr. Damer, again.  It often does strike an old gentleman as very
odd that any man should fall in love with his daughter, whom he has not ceased to look upon
as a child.  The case is generally quite different with mothers.  They seem to think that every
young man must fall in love with their girls.

"And have you said anything to Fanny about this?" asked Mr. Damer.

"Yes, sir, I have her permission to speak to you."

"God bless my soul!" said Mr. Damer; and by this time they had arrived at Shepheard's Hotel.

"Oh, mamma," said Fanny, as soon as she found herself alone with her mother that evening, "I
have something that I must tell you."

"Oh, Fanny, don't tell me anything to-night, for I am a great deal too tired to listen."

"But oh, mamma, pray;--you must listen to this; indeed you must."  And Fanny knelt down at
her mother's knee, and looked beseechingly up into her face.

"What is it, Fanny?  You know that all my bones are sore, and I am so tired that I am almost dead."

"Mamma, Mr. Ingram has--"

"Has what, my dear? has he done anything wrong?"

"No, mamma:  but he has;--he has proposed to me."  And Fanny, bursting into tears, hid her
face in her mother's lap.

And thus the story was told on both sides of the house.  On the next day, as a matter of course,
all the difficulties and dangers of such a marriage as that which was now projected were insisted
on by both father and mother.  It was improper; it would cause a severing of the family not
to be thought of; it would be an alliance of a dangerous nature, and not at all calculated
to insure happiness; and, in short, it was impossible.  On that day, therefore, they all went
to bed very unhappy.  But on the next day, as was also a matter of course, seeing that there
were no pecuniary difficulties, the mother and father were talked over, and Mr. Ingram was
accepted as a son-in-law.  It need hardly be said that the offer of a place in Mr. Damer's
boat was again made, and that on this occasion it was accepted without hesitation.

There was an American Protestant clergyman resident in Cairo, with whom, among other persons,
Miss Dawkins had become acquainted.  Upon this gentleman or upon his wife Miss Dawkins called
a few days after the journey to the Pyramid, and finding him in his study, thus performed her
duty to her neighbour, -

"You know your countryman Mr. Ingram, I think?" said she.

"Oh, yes; very intimately."

"If you have any regard for him, Mr. Burton," such was the gentleman's name, "I think you should
put him on his guard."

"On his guard against what?" said Mr. Burton with a serious air, for there was something serious
in the threat of impending misfortune as conveyed by Miss Dawkins.

"Why," said she, "those Damers, I fear, are dangerous people."

"Do you mean that they will borrow money of him?"

"Oh, no; not that, exactly; but they are clearly setting their cap at him."

"Setting their cap at him?"

"Yes; there is a daughter, you know; a little chit of a thing; and I fear Mr. Ingram may be
caught before he knows where he is.  It would be such a pity, you know.  He is going up the
river with them, I hear. That, in his place, is very foolish.  They asked me, but I positively
refused."

Mr. Burton remarked that "In such a matter as that Mr. Ingram would be perfectly able to take
care of himself."

"Well, perhaps so; but seeing what was going on, I thought it my duty to tell you."  And so
Miss Dawkins took her leave.

Mr. Ingram did go up the Nile with the Damers, as did an old friend of the Damers who arrived
from England.  And a very pleasant trip they had of it.  And, as far as the present historian
knows, the two lovers were shortly afterwards married in England.

Poor Miss Dawkins was left in Cairo for some time on her beam ends. But she was one of those
who are not easily vanquished.  After an interval of ten days she made acquaintance with an
Irish family--having utterly failed in moving the hard heart of M. Delabordeau--and with these
she proceeded to Constantinople.  They consisted of two brothers and a sister, and were, therefore,
very convenient for matrimonial purposes.  But nevertheless, when I last heard of Miss Dawkins,
she was still an unprotected female.