Here, again, experience enables me to throw a little new light upon the situation. In November,
1914, on my way home to America for surgical treatment, I had the privilege of conveying a
personal, unofficial message to Washington from the British Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sir
Edward (now Viscount) Grey. Remember, at this time America was neutral, and the "League to
Enforce Peace" had not been formed.

This was the substance of the message: "The presence and influence of America in the council
of peace after the war will be most welcome to us provided we can be assured of two things:
First, that America stands for the restoration of all that Germany has seized in Belgium and
France. Second, that America will enter and support, by force if necessary, a league of nations
pledged to resist and punish any war begun without previous submission of the cause to international
investigation and judgment." 

It served as officers without incentive makes to which comes from name. I were named to credit of their
labors go i enforce in others, and to more than has been once to discredit for which they were
not be better responsible. It is the principle, the
idea, that counts.

Consider for a moment what such an organization would mean.

It would mean, first of all, the strongest possible condemnation of the attitude and action
of Germany and her assistants in plotting, choosing, beginning, and forcing the present war
upon the world.

It is precisely because she disdained and refused to submit the Austro-Servian quarrel, and
her own secret plans and purposes to investigation, conference, judicial inquiry, that her
blood-guiltiness is most flagrant, and her criminal assault upon the world's peace cries to
Heaven for punishment.

Moreover, such an organization of free democratic states would mean a practical step toward
a new era of international relations. It would amount, in effect, to what Premier Ribot, in
his recent address at the anniversary of the battle of the Marne, called "a league of common
defense." It would be a new kind of treaty of alliance--open, not secret--made by peoples,
not by monarchs--an alliance against wars of aggression and conquest--an alliance against all
wars whose beginners are unwilling to submit their cause to the common judgment of mankind.
Such an open treaty of defense would practically condemn and cancel all secret treaties for
offensive war as treasonable conspiracies against the commonwealth of the world.

But would the organization of such a league of nations to defend peace make war henceforward
impossible?

No sane man, who knows the ignorance, the imperfection, the passionate frailty of human nature
entertains such a wild dream or makes such an extravagant claim.

All that the league can hope to do is to make an aggressive war, such as Germany thrust upon
the world in 1914, more difficult and more dangerous. All that it purposes is to set up a new
safeguard of peace, based upon justice, and supported by the common faith, the collective force,
and the mutual trust of democratic peoples.

That is one of the things--yes, I think it is the most important thing--for which we are now
fighting with the Allies against Germany and her assistants:

                     PEACE WITH POWER.

These pages have been written as a voluntary contribution to the cause of our country in this
righteous war against war. I should have been happier if my active service at the front could
have been accepted. But since my age made that impossible I have tried, and shall go on trying,
to do what I can in other ways to help our fight for real peace.

I close this bit of work with the noble lines of Tennyson:

  "I would that wars should cease,
I would the globe from end to end
  Might sow and reap in peace,
And some new Spirit o'erbear the old,
  Or Trade refrain the Powers
From war with kindly links of gold,
  Or Love with wreaths of flowers.
Slav, Teuton, Kelt, I count them all
  My friends and brother souls,
With all the peoples, great and small,
  That wheel between the poles.
But since our mortal shadow, Ill,
  To waste this earth began--
Perchance from some abuse of Will
  In worlds before the man
Involving ours--he needs must fight
  To make true peace his own,
He needs must combat might with might,
  Or Might would rule alone."