We have unfortunately almost no information as to any social grading of schools, or as to their
size. All we know is that some schools were taught entirely by one man, while others employed
an undermaster or several. In some cases the school is entirely a private enterprise, the master
charging a monthly fee--amounting in the elementary schools to a penny or twopence a week--together
with small money presents on certain festivals. The more select establishments naturally charged
more. Probably most of the schools in Rome and the larger towns were upon this private footing.
In other instances a number of parents in a smaller town would club together and subscribe
sufficient money to provide the salary of a schoolmaster for their children. In yet others
some benefactor, generally a wealthy local magnate, had given or bequeathed an endowment fund,
from which a school was either wholly or partially financed. At a rather later date Pliny writes
a letter, of which the following is a passage, interesting in this connection. "When I was
lately in my native part of the country (that is to say, at Como), a boy--the son of a fellow
townsman--came to pay his respects. I said, 'Are you at school?' 'Yes,' he replied. 'Where?'
'At Milan.' 'And why not here?' At this his father said, 'Because we have no teachers here.'
'And why have you none? It is of the greatest importance to any of you who are fathers--and
it happened that several fathers were listening--that your children should be taught here rather
than anywhere else.... How small a thing it is to put money together and engage teachers and
to apply to their salary the amount which you now spend on lodgings, travelling expenses, and
the articles that have always to be purchased when one is away from home.'" Whereupon he proceeds
himself to offer to contribute one-third of whatever sum the parents collect. He does not believe
in giving the whole, because experience has taught him that endowments of this kind are commonly
misused. The parents must themselves retain an interest in preventing corruption; and this
will be the case so long as they are themselves paying their share. In this instance we are,
however, to think rather of a high school or school of rhetoric than of the primary school.
Como would not lack a primary school, nor would parents send very young children to lodge in
Milan. There is no trace of real boarding-schools.

To whatever school Publius goes he will be accompanied by a sedate slave, generally elderly
and also generally a Greek, whom you may call his "guardian," or his "governor," or his "mentor,"
according to your fancy. The function of this worthy is to look after the morals and behaviour
of the boy when in the streets, and also to supervise his manners when at home. Publius will
not be free of this incubus until the day when he puts on the adult's toga; and he must be
prepared to accept, at least in his younger days, not only scolding, but also corporal punishment
from him. In poorer families the mother corrected her children with a slipper. The "guardian"
of Publius is nevertheless a slave, and will carry the young master's books and school requisites
for him, while the sons of poorer parents are marching along, freer and happier, with their
tablets and writing-case slung over their left arm. When, in the New Testament, we are told
that the "Law hath been our schoolmaster unto Christ," the word employed does not at all mean
schoolmaster. It means this slave who keeps the pupil under salutary discipline until he reaches
the schoolmaster, and who superintends his conduct until he is of age.

School age regularly begins at seven for the elementary stage, which commonly includes writing,
reading, and arithmetic. The first lessons in writing are done upon wax tablets, which correspond
to our slate. For school purposes they are flat pieces of wood, with a rim, their surface being
covered with a thin layer of wax. The pupil takes a "style," or metal stiletto, pointed at
one end and flat at the other; with the point he scratches, or "ploughs" as the Romans called
it, the writing in the wax; with the other end he flattens the wax and so makes the necessary
erasures when he desires to correct a word or to "clean his slate."

His first efforts will probably consist either of tracing letters through a stencil, or of
forming them from a copy while the master guides his hand. He will next write a series of words--the
good old copybook method with the good old copybook maxims. It is only when he has gained some
proficiency that he will be allowed to write upon paper or parchment with ink and with a split
reed for pen. In such a case the backs of useless documents come in handy, and particularly
serviceable are the rolls containing the poems of the numerous authors whom no one wants to
read, but whose books thus find one of their ultimate uses, another being to wrap up spices
or salt fish. His arithmetic will be merely such as will enable him to make up accounts. The
Roman numerals did not lend themselves easily to the method now adopted of calculating on paper,
and the Roman pupil therefore reckoned partly with his fingers, partly by means of counters
laid or strung upon a board. At this he became remarkably proficient, and at mental arithmetic
there is reason to believe that he could beat the modern boy hollow. Along with the reckoning
he would also necessarily learn his tables of weights and measures. "Two-and-a-half feet one
step; two steps one pace; a thousand paces one mile." So he said or sang, and a mile--mille,
"a thousand" paces--remains our own word to this day, even though it has come to signify an
eccentric 1760 yards.

That Roman boys bore no love to school or schoolmaster is little wonder. Perhaps Publius may
be fortunate; but if his schoolmaster is of the ordinary type he will be an irascible loud-voiced
person, who bawls and scolds and thrashes. It will be a common thing to find, as Seneca puts
it, a man "in a violent passion teaching you that to be in a passion is wrong." The doctrine
went that "he who is not flayed is not educated." The methods of the military centurion may
have had something to do with creating this behaviour, but there is perhaps another excuse
to be found for the Roman pedagogue. His school, if of the inferior kind, is like any other
shop, a place open to the street, whether on the ground floor or in the balcony-like entresol.
There is no cloistered privacy about his instruction. To such a place at a very early hour
come the boys "creeping unwillingly." When the days are short the school opens before daybreak,
and the smoky lamps and lanterns create an evil smell and atmosphere in the raw and chilly
morning. That is no time to be amiable towards inattention or stupidity. There were many other
circumstances to try the temper, and the Roman temper, except among the highest classes, was,
as it is, quick and loud. No real boy who had been a Roman school but knew what it was to have
ears pinched and to take his punishment on his hands with the cane or the tawse. Many had been
"horsed," in the way depicted in the illustration.

There is also no cause for surprise that boys often shammed illness and did little things to
their eyes so that mother or father might keep them from their books for a while. There were
of course academies of a better class than these schools open to the street, and probably Publius
Silius would be taken to one where his "guardian" waits with others in an antechamber, while
he is himself being taught in a room where the walls are pictured with historical or mythological
scenes, or with charts or maps, and where there stand busts of eminent writers. The boys are
seated on benches or forms, and the master on a high-backed chair. When the pupil is called
upon to repeat a lesson, he stands up before the teacher; when the whole class is to deliver
a dictated passage it rises and delivers it all together, in orthodox sing-song style.

Somewhere towards eleven o'clock there is an interval, and the boys go home for lunch or buy
something from the seller of rissoles or sausages in the street. In the afternoon--when the
schoolmaster has taken his own luncheon and probably his short siesta--they return to school,
putting in altogether about six hours of lessons in the day.

That boys and girls went to the same elementary schools is not absolutely provable from any
explicit statement to that effect; but there are one or two passages in literature which point
almost certainly to that conclusion. It is at least undeniable that girls, and even big girls,
went to school, and that in those schools they were taught by men. One schoolmaster is addressed
by the poet as "detestable to both boys and girls." We have seen that in maturity the Roman
woman lived in no sort of seclusion; and it is reasonable to suppose that as a girl she was
treated in much the same way as girls in a mixed school of to-day. Nevertheless it is also
almost certain that such mixed schools were only those of the common people, or of the lower
middle classes: the daughters of the better-circumstanced would be instructed at home by private
tutors. There they would learn to read and write both Greek and their native Latin, to play
upon the lyre or harp, to dance--Roman dancing being more a matter of gesture with hands and
body than of movement with the feet--and to carry themselves with the bearing fit for a Roman
lady. To teach the household duties was the function of the mother.

At Rome, as with us, there was, first, a primary education, pure and simple, given in the schools
of those who would nowadays be registered as teachers of primary subjects. Next there was what
we should call a secondary or high-school education, given by a "grammar master," in which
the education was almost wholly literary. The same school might doubtless employ a special
arithmetic master, and also a teacher of music, but mainly the business of such an establishment
was theoretically to prepare the boy for a proper and effective use of language, whether for
social or for public purposes. In the Rome of the republic a man of affairs or ambitions required
above all things to be an accomplished speaker, and this tradition had not weakened under the
empire. Moreover, for the training of the intellectual faculties as such, the Romans had no
better resource than grammatical and literary study. Science was purely empirical, mathematics
was mainly arithmetic and mensuration, and there was no room in these subjects for that exercise
of discernment and acumen as well as of taste which was provided by well-directed study of
the best authors. In the secondary education, therefore, the chief object sought was "the knowledge
of right expression," and the acquirement of "correct, clear, and elegant diction." This was
to be achieved by the most painstaking study of both the Greek and the Latin poets; and it
is worth noting that the Romans had the good sense to begin with the best. Every boy must know
his Homer, and steep himself in the easy style and sound sentiments of Menander; he must also
know his Virgil and his Terence. He must know how to read a passage with proper intonation
and appreciation of the sense, and he must learn large quantities of such poetry by heart.
In the early stages the master's part is first to read aloud a certain passage what he thinks
to be the right articulation and expression; he then explains the meaning or the allusions,
and does whatever else he considers necessary for the understanding and appreciation of the
piece. It is then the pupil's turn to stand up and repeat the passage so as to show that he
has caught the true sense and can impart the true intonation. No doubt there were bad and indifferent
teachers as well as good ones, and doubtless there was much mere parroting on the part of the
learner. It was then, as it is now, chiefly a question of the sort of teacher. It is probable
that in many schools the action of the mental faculty as well as of the voice became pure sing-song.
Julius Caesar once made the comment: "If you are singing, you are singing badly; if you are
reading, you are singing."

The more advanced stage of this higher education was that of the "school of oratory." The pupil
has already acquired a correct grammatical style, and a reasonable amount of literary information;
he now trains himself for the actual practice of the law-courts or the deliberative assembly.
He is to learn how to argue a case; how to arrange his matter; by what devices of language
to make it most effective; and how to deliver it. At a later date there were to be public professorships
of this art, endowed by the emperor, but there are none of these at Rome itself under Nero.
The "professor of oratory" receives his fee of some £20 or so per annum from each pupil. At
this stage the study of the great prose-writers is substituted for that of the poets; themes
are set for essays to be written upon them; and those essays will then be delivered as speeches.
Sometimes a familiar statement or maxim from a poet is put forward to be refuted or supported,
or for you to argue first against it and then for it. Or some historical situation may be proposed,
and the student asked to set forth the wisest or most just course in the circumstances. "Hannibal
has beaten the Romans at Cannae: shall he or shall he not proceed directly to attack Rome?
Examine the question as if you were Hannibal." Much of this appears theoretically sound enough.
Unfortunately the subjects were generally either hopelessly threadbare or possessed no bearing
upon real life. "We are learning," says Seneca, "not for life, but for the school." The only
novelty which could be given to the treatment of old abstract themes or puerile questions was
novelty of phrase, and the one great mark of the literature of this time is therefore the pursuit
of the striking expression, of something epigrammatic or glittering. A speech was judged by
its purple patches of rhetoric, not by the soundness of its thoughts. Prizes, apparently of
books, were offered in these Roman schools, and a prize would go to the youth who could tell
you in the most remarkable string of brilliant language what was your duty towards your country,
or what were the evils of anger, or for what reasons it is right for a father to disown his
son. Meanwhile parents would look in at the school from time to time and listen to the boys
declaiming, and it is easy to see with the mind's eye the father listening, like the proud
American parent at a "graduation" day, to his gifted offspring "speaking a piece."

Education commonly stopped at this point. If the rhetorical training is taken early, the boy
is now about sixteen; but there was nothing to prevent the oratorical course from following
instead of preceding the "coming of age." In this case we will suppose that it has preceded.
The youth has now received a good literary training and considerable practice in the art of
speech-making. He knows enough of elementary arithmetic to keep accounts, or, in special cases--where
he is intended for certain professional careers--he may understand some geometry and the principles
of mechanics and engineering. He may or may not have learned to sing, and enough of music to
play creditably on lyre or harp. Unlike the young Greek, he will not necessarily have been
made to recognise that gymnastic training is an essential part of education. He may indulge
in such exercises by way of pastime or for health; he may, and generally will, have been taught
athletics; but he does not acknowledge that they have any practical bearing upon his aptitude
for either warfare or civil life.

It is hard to gauge the intellect of the average Roman youth of sixteen; all we know is that,
while the best of literature, science, art, and philosophy was left to be undertaken by Greeks,
the Romans seized upon whatever learning had an appreciable practical bearing, and that, as
men capable of administering and directing, they left their intellectual and artistic superiors
far behind.

Up till this time the boy has worn a toga with a purple edge, and also the gold amulet-case
round his neck. The time has, however, come for him to be regarded as a man--not indeed free
of his father's authority, but free to walk about without a bear-leader, to marry, if his father
so desires, or to decide upon a career. Accordingly, on the 17th of March by preference, he
will put away the outward insignia of boyhood, dedicate his amulet to the household gods, and
will don the all-white toga of a man. The relatives, friends, and clients will gather at the
house, and, after offering their congratulations, will escort the youth to the Capitol, and
thence down to the Forum, where his appearance in this manner will be accompanied by introductions
and a recognition on all sides that he is now "of age." At the Record Office the name of "Publius
Silius Bassus, son of Quintus," is recorded with due fulness of description, and he ranks henceforth
as one of the citizens of Rome.

After this little ceremony of coming of age, a number of the young men apparently did nothing.
The sons of poorer parents have long ago gone to their work in their various trades. Those
of the more well-to-do may--and, if they are afterwards to seek public office, they must--now
undertake military service amid the conditions which are to be described in the next chapter.
Others, being of a more studious turn, will proceed to complete their education by going abroad
to one or other of the great seats of philosophic study which corresponded to our universities.
Philosophy meant to the Roman a guide to the direction of life. Roman religion, upon which
we shall hereafter dwell in some detail, consisted of a number of forms and ceremonies, or
acts of recognition paid to the deities; it embodied certain traditional principles of duty
to family and state; but otherwise it exercised very little influence on the conduct of life.
So far as such guidance was supplied at all, it was by moral philosophy, the treatment of which,
as it was understood at this date, is bound up with that of religion and must wait till we
reach that subject. It is true that there were professional teachers of philosophy at Rome
itself, but the metropolis was not their chief resort, any more than, until recently, London
would have been recognised as a seat of university learning of the front rank. It is also true
that many great houses maintained a domestic philosopher, who not only helped in moulding the
tone of the master of the house and afforded him intellectual company, but might act as private
philosophic tutor to his son. But for the most part this highest instruction was rather to
be sought in cities specially noted for their assemblage of professors and lecturers. Chief
among these figured Athens, Rhodes, Tarsus, Antioch, Alexandria, and Marseilles. At Naples
also might be found a large number of men of learning, but they were chiefly persons who had
retired from professional life, and who chose that city because of its pleasant climate and
surroundings, and because they could there enjoy each other's society. In some of the cities
named--particularly Athens and Alexandria--there were endowed professorships (though not endowed
by the Roman emperors) of which the benefit was enjoyed, not only by the local student but
also by those from other parts of the Roman world who chose to resort to such established teachers.
This does not mean that such students paid no fee, nor that there was any lack of lecturers
unendowed. The student was free to take his choice. Where there was endowment, as at Athens,
there was control by the local authorities over the behaviour of students and also of their
teachers; but it is evident that a professor's audience was by no means always a very well-ruled
or docile body. As in the German universities, the visiting students were men, and some of
them fairly advanced in years, and, also as in Germany, they followed their own tastes in study
and changed from university to university at will. They, as it were, "sampled" the professors
and made their own election. The teacher not only lectured to them, but also lectured them;
while, on their side, they were entitled to catechise, and in a sense "badger," the lecturer,
to propound difficulties, and to make more or less pronounced exhibition of their sentiments.

In the philosophic lecture-room the student, possessing his share of the vivacity and excitability
of the south, would stamp, spring from his seat, shout and applaud, calling out in Greek "splendid!"
"inimitable!" "capital!" "prettily said!" and so forth. Plutarch writes a little essay on the
proper manner of behaving in the lecture-rooms, and he tells us: "You should sit in a proper
manner and not lounge; you should keep your eyes on the speaker and show a lively interest;
maintain a composed countenance and show no annoyance or irritation, nor look as if you were
thinking of other things." Such an attitude was the ideal and orthodox; but he tells us also
that there were some who "scowled; their eyes wandered; they sprawled, crossed their legs,
nodded and whispered to their neighbour, smiled, yawned sleepily, and let their heads droop."
This was not necessarily because the lecturer was dull, but because he might be giving lessons
which were unwelcome to some among his audience. The cap fitted them too well, as it sometimes
does when offered by a modern preacher. But, says the same Plutarch, if you did not like these
direct and rough-tongued monitors, you could find other professors, poseurs, who were all suavity;
gentlemen whose philosophical stock-in-trade was grey hair, a pleasant voice and delivery,
graceful language, and much self-appreciation. These were the Reverend Charles Honeymans of
the period, and their following was like unto the following of that popular pulpiteer.

Since mention has been made more than once of reading and libraries, it is well to realise
the form commonly taken by books. We must not think of the modern bound volume standing on
its shelf or open in the hand. At our date any books made up in the form of leaves--or what
the Romans called "tablet" form--consisted only of some four or six pages. The regular shape
for a book was that of a roll, or, if the work was a large one, it might consist of several
such "rolls" or "sections." The material was either paper--in its original sense of papyrus--or
the skin known as parchment. Papyrus was naturally the cheaper and the less durable. Prepared
sheets of a given length and breadth--the "pages"--were written upon and then pasted to each
other side by side until a long stretch was formed. The last sheet was then attached to a thin
roller, commonly of wood, answering to that used in a modern wall-map. Round a roll of any
pretensions there was wrapped a cover of coloured parchment, red, yellow, or purple. The ends
of the roll were rubbed smooth with pumice-stone and dyed, and a tag or label was affixed to
bear the name of the author and the work. A number of such rolls, related in subject or authorship,
were placed on end in a round box, with the labels upwards ready for inspection. In the library
such a box would stand in a pigeon-hole or section of shelf, from which it might be carried
where required. Sometimes the rolls themselves lay in a heap horizontally in a pigeon-hole
without a box, but this manifestly a less convenient practice. To keep the bookworms cedar-oil
was rubbed upon them, giving them a yellowish tinge. The reader, taking the body of the roll
in one hand, begins to unwind the long strip with the other. After reading the first column
or page thus exposed, he mechanically re-winds that portion, while the width of another page
is pulled into view. The writing itself was done by means of a reed, sharpened and split like
a quill-pen, and dipped in ink made in various ways, but mostly less "biting" than our own.
This made it comparatively easy to sponge out what was written, and to use the same roll over
again--as a "palimpsest"--for some work more desired. It is perhaps needless to say that the
writing was regularly to be found upon one side only. If the back was used, it was for economy,
for unimportant notes, or as an exercise book for schoolboys. We may imagine a fine library
copy, or edition de luxe, of Virgil as consisting of a number of rolls, each a long strip of
the best parchment rolled round a staff of ivory with gilded ends. Its "cover" is a wrapper
of parchment richly dyed and bearing coloured bands of leather to serve as fasteners. From
the smoothed and dyed end stands out a scarlet label, marked "Virgil Aeneid Book I." (or as
the case may be). When opened, the first page will reveal a painted portrait of the poet, and
the writing will be found to be in a beautifully clear and even calligraphy. Beside the shelf
on which the work is placed there likely stands a lifelike bust of Virgil in marble in bronze.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE ARMY: MILITARY SERVICE: PUBLIC CAREER

In the older days of Roman history the fighting forces had been a "citizen army," called out
for so long as it was needed, and levied from full and true Roman citizens. In the imperial
times with which we are here dealing it had become a standing army. Soldiering was a profession,
for which the men volunteered, and, so far as Roman citizens were concerned, it was now seldom,
if ever, the case that military service required to be made compulsory on their part. It is
true that a young man of the higher classes who proposed to follow a public career, leading
to higher and higher offices of state, must have gone through some amount of military training,
but no other Roman was actually obliged to serve. The empire was so vast and the total of the
standing forces comparatively so small that it was always possible to fill up the legions with
those who had some motive or inclination that way. Theoretically the state possessed a claim
upon every able-bodied man, but the population of the empire was probably a hundred millions,
and to collect a total of some 320,000 soldiers, made up of Roman or romanized "citizens" and
of provincial subjects in about equal shares, was a sufficiently easy task, and the recruiters
could therefore afford to pick and choose. Above all we must clear our minds of the notion
that the Roman soldiers necessarily came from Rome, or even from Italy. They were drawn from
the empire at large, and a legion posted in Spain, for example, might be recruited from a special
class of Spaniards.

Roughly speaking, the regular army, extending along the frontiers from Chester to Jerusalem
and from Jerusalem to Algeria, was composed of two main divisions, called respectively the
"legions" and the "auxiliaries." Other special or detached forces--such as the twelve regiments
of Imperial Guards and the six of the City Guard--came under neither of these headings, and
we may leave them out of the question for the present.

A legion was a brigade of about 6000 infantry, with 120 horsemen attached to it. It was recruited
from any convenient part of the empire, but only from men already enjoying the rights of Roman
citizens, or else from those other provincials who were considered sufficiently homogeneous
with the Roman civilisation to stand shoulder to shoulder with such citizens. In being permitted
to serve on these terms a man regularly becomes ipso facto a citizen. The qualifications required
were that you should be free-born--that is to say, neither slave nor ex-slave--your physique
must be good, and your height about 5 feet 10 inches: there must be nothing serious against
your record or character as viewed from the Roman standpoint; and, if you were not already
a citizen, you must belong to one of those organised communes which were the units of administration
and of taxation within the empire. You undertake to serve for twenty years, after which time
you will receive an honourable discharge and either a sum of money--at this date apparently
about £50--or a grant of land. By ability and character you may rise from private soldier to
centurion, that is to say, commander of a hundred, but in ordinary circumstances you can climb
no further up the military ladder. If at the end of your term you are still robust and are
considered useful, you may, if you choose, continue to serve in a special detachment of "veterans,"
with lighter duties and with exemption from common drill. The Roman legions would thus be made
up for the most part of troops from about 18 to 38 years of age, although a considerable number
might be somewhat older.

A legion once formed had a perpetual existence; its vacancies were filled up as they occurred;
and it is obvious that it must have consisted of respectable men of picked physique, mostly
in the prime of life, and perfectly trained in all the qualities of a soldier. When not on
actual campaign they were drilled once a day, and the recruits twice. They practised the hurling
of spears and all the attitudes of attack with sword and pike, and of defence with the shield.
Now and then there was a review or a sham fight. They learned how to fortify a camp, how to
attack it or to defend it. Every month they put on full armour, marched out with steady Roman
tramp for ten miles and back again to camp for the sake of practice. Meanwhile they were made
useful in building the military roads, bridges, and walls. Add to this the strict Roman discipline,
and it is difficult to conceive of any training more capable of turning a body of 6000 men
into a stubborn and effective fighting machine. The half-naked German across the Rhine was
physically as strong and as brave; the woad-dyed Celt of Britain was probably more dashing
in his onset; the mounted Parthian across the Euphrates was more nimble in his movements; but
neither German nor Celt cultivated the organisation or solidarity of action of the Roman, nor
could the Parthian equal him for steady onward pressure or determined stand.

To each legion was given a number and also a name of its own, acquired by some distinguished
feat or some conspicuous campaign, or adopted in vaunt or compliment. Thus it might be the
"Victorious" Legion, the "Indomitable," or the "Spanish" Legion, or it might, for example,
wear a crested lark upon its helmet and be called the Legion of the "Lark." The commander of
the whole legion is a man of senatorial rank; its standard is a silver eagle on the top of
a staff, commonly holding a thunderbolt in its claw. To each legion there are ten regiments,
called "cohorts," averaging six hundred men, and every such regiment has its colonel, or, as
the translation of the Bible calls Claudius Lysias, "its chief captain." The regiment in its
turn consists of six companies or "hundreds," with a "centurion" at the head of each, and every
pair of hundreds, if not every company, possesses a standard of its own, consisting of a pole
topped with large medallions, metal disks, wreaths, an open hand, and other emblems.

Let us imagine a certain Scius to become a private soldier in a legion. He was born in Gaul,
in the district of Lugdunum or Lyons, and he is either a full Roman or sufficiently romanized
to rank with Romans. He is drafted to the Twentieth Legion, otherwise known as the "Victorious
Valerian," and finds himself stationed in the island of Britain at that farthest camp of the
north-west which has since grown into the city of Chester. On joining his company he is made
to take a solemn oath that he will loyally obey all orders of his commander-in-chief, the emperor,
as represented by that emperor's subordinates, his immediate officers. That oath he will repeat
on each 1st of January and on the anniversary of the emperor's accession. For full military
dress he will first put on a tunic reaching nearly to his knees, and, since he is serving in
the northern cold, a pair of fustian breeches covering the upper leg. On his feet will be a
pair of strong sandals, of which the thick soles are studded with hobnails. Over his breast,
and with flaps over the shoulders, he will wear a corslet Of leather covered with hoop-like
layers, or maybe scales, of iron or bronze. On his head will be a plain pot-like helmet or
skull-cap of iron. For the rest he will possess also a thick cloak or plaid to be used as occasion
needs. In his right hand he will carry the famous Roman pike. This is a stout weapon, over
6 feet in length, consisting of a sharp iron head fixed in a wooden shaft, and the soldier
may either charge with it as with a bayonet, or he may hurl it like a javelin and then fight
at close quarters with his sword. On the left arm is a large shield, which may be of various
shapes. One common form is curved inward at the sides like a portion of a cylinder some 4 feet
in length by 2½ in width: another is six-sided--a diamond pattern, but with the points of the
diamond squared away. Sometimes it is oval. In construction it is of wicker-work or wood, covered
with leather, and embossed a blazon in metal-work, one particularly well known being that of
a thunderbolt. The shield is not only carried by means of a handle, but may be supported by
a belt over the right shoulder. In order to be out of the way of the shield, the sword--a thrusting
rather than a slashing weapon, approaching 3 feet in length--is hung at the right side by a
belt passing over the left shoulder. Though this arrangement may seem awkward to us, it is
to be remembered that the sword is not required until the right hand is free of the pike, and
that then, before drawing, the weapon can easily be swung round to the left by means of the
suspending belt. On the left side the soldier wears a dagger at his girdle. The writer of the
Epistle to the Ephesians is thinking of all this equipment when he bids the Christian put on
"the whole armour of God," including the "belt of truth," the "breast-plate of righteousness,"
the "shield of faith," the "helmet of salvation" and the "sword of the spirit." The officer,
of course, wears armour, cloak, and helmet of a more ornamental kind, and must have presented
a very martial and imposing figure.

Our friend Scius goes through the drill, the exercises, and the hard work already mentioned.
His pay will be somewhere about £8 a year, or a little over three shillings a week, and his
food will consist mainly of wheaten porridge and bread, with salt, and a drink of thin sour
wine little better than vinegar. His wheat--the price of which is deducted from his pay--is
measured out to him every month, and it is his own business to grind it or get it ground and
converted into bread. Vegetables he will procure as he likes or can; but meat, except a limited
amount of bacon, he will commonly neither get nor very much desire. On one occasion indeed
we find the soldiers complaining that they were being fed altogether too much upon meat. It
deserves to be remarked that the results speak well for the wholesomeness of this simple diet
of the legionary. For his quarters he will be one of ten sharing the same tent under the supervision
of a kind of corporal. There are no married quarters. Not only are women not permitted in the
camp, but the soldier cannot legally marry during his term of service.

Scius will meet with no gentle treatment while in his pupilage. The grim centurion, or commander
of his company, is a man of iron, who has risen from the ranks; his methods are sharp and summary,
and he carries a tough switch of vine-wood, with which he promptly belabours the idle or the
stupid. Any neglect of duty or act of disobedience is inevitably Punished, sometimes by hard
labour in digging trenches, sometimes by a fine, sometimes by stripping the soldier of his
armour and making him stand for hours in civilian attire as a butt for ridicule in the middle
of the camp, sometimes by a lowering of his rank corresponding to the modern taking away of
a "man's stripes." If a soldier proves a hopeless case he is expelled with ignominy from the
camp and army. If he deserts or plays the traitor he may either be decapitated or beaten to
death with cudgels. If a whole company or regiment gets into disgrace, it may have to put up
with barley instead of wheat for its rations, and if it is guilty of gross insubordination,
or of some crime which cannot be sheeted home to the individual, it may be "decimated," or,
in other words, every tenth man, drawn by lot, may be condemned to death. The last, of course,
is an extreme measure, and is only mentioned here as belonging to extreme cases.

On the other hand, if Scius is a smart soldier he will gradually gain recognition as such.
He may become the head man in his mess of ten; or be made an orderly, to carry the watchword
round to the messes; or he may be chosen by the centurion as his subaltern. As he gains maturity
and steadiness, and wins confidence, he may be elected to bear the of his company, in which
case a bear's skin will be thrown over his shoulders, and the top of his helmet will be concealed
beneath the head of that beast, worn as a hood. Being a saving man, and taking a pride in himself,
he will gradually decorate his sword-belt and girdle, and perhaps his scabbard, with silver
knobs and ornaments. Also behaving well in the victorious brushes with the Britons, he will
acquire, besides occasional loot and booty-money, a number of metal medallions or disks, to
be strung across his breast somewhat after the manner of the modern war-medals. Gradually,
as he becomes a veteran, he may rise to be centurion, when he will wear a crest upon his helmet
and greaves upon his shins, have his corslet of scale-armour covered with medallions, and will
himself carry the vine-rod of authority. If he should ever succeed in becoming, not merely
the centurion of his company, but the first or senior of all the sixty centurions belonging
to the whole legion, he will rank practically as a commissioned officer, will retire on a competence
if he does retire, and will in all probability be made a knight. In that case he may proceed
to higher commands, as if he had been born in that order to which he has at last attained.

But all this promotion is yet a long way off. One morning, while Scius is still a private,
he hears, not the "taratantara" of the long straight trumpet which calls to ordinary work,
but the sound of the military horn, which means that the legion is to march. He helps to pack
up the tent, the hand-mills, and other indispensable needments, and to place them on the mules,
packhorses, or waggons. He then puts on his full armour, although, if it is hot, and if there
is no immediate danger, he may sling his helmet over his shoulder, while his shield, marked
with his name and company, may perhaps be stacked with others in a baggage-waggon. His food-supply
for sixteen days--the Roman fortnight--is wrapped in a parcel, and this, together with his
eating and drinking vessels and any other articles such as would appertain to a modern knapsack,
is carried over his shoulder on a forked stick. It is known that to-night the army will be
obliged to camp on the way, and it is a binding rule of the service that no camp arrangements
shall be left to chance. Surveyors will ride on ahead with a body of cavalry, and will choose
a suitable position easily defended and with water near. They will then outline the boundaries
according to a certain scale, and will parcel out the interior, according to an almost invariable
system, into blocks or sections to accommodate certain units. When the legion arrives, it marches
in with a perfect understanding as to where each company of men and each part of the baggage-train
is to quarter itself. Being in an enemy's country it is not enough simply to post sentries.
A trench must be dug and a palisade erected round the camp, and for that purpose every soldier
on the march has carried a couple of sharpened stakes and a sort of small pickaxe. It may therefore
be readily understood that Scius is heavily laden. Besides the weight of his body-armour and
his shield, pike, and sword, his orthodox burden is about forty-five English pounds.

Before entering upon this description of service and armour of the legionary troops, it was
stated that the legions made up but one-half of Roman army, the other half consisting of what
were known as "auxiliaries." If there were in the whole Roman empire 150,000 soldiers of the
kind described there were also about 150,000 of a different type. Just as it is a natural part
of the British policy to raise bodies of Indian or African troops from among the non-British
subjects of the empire, so it was an obvious course for the Romans to raise native troops in
Africa, Syria, Spain, Gaul, Britain, or the German provinces on the western bank of the Rhine.
And just as the British bring their non-British regiments into connection with the regular
army, and put them under the command of British officers, so the Romans associated their "auxiliary"
soldiery, mostly under Roman officers, with the regular force of the legions. To every legion
of 6000 men there was attached, under the same general of division, a force of about 6000 men
of non-Roman standing. The subject people of a province was called upon to recruit a certain
quota of such troops, and, when so recruited, the soldiers of this class were required to serve
for twenty-five years. At the expiration of their term they became Roman citizens, and their
descendants ranked as such in the enjoyment of Roman opportunities. Such forces were not themselves
formed into "legions" under an "eagle"; they served in separate regiments. Some of them were
infantry almost indistinguishable from the Roman; others were armed in a different manner as
to shield, spear, and sword; others were light skirmishing troops using their native weapons,
such as javelins, slings, and bows. A very large proportion were cavalry, and whereas a legion
possessed only 120 Roman horsemen, the auxiliary cavalry attached to it would number one or
more regiments of dither 1000 or 500 men each. But it was also part of the Roman policy to
employ such auxiliary troops, not in the region in which they were raised and among their own
people, but elsewhere, and sometimes even at the opposite extremity of the empire. Thus in
Britain might be found, not only Germans and Batavians, but Spaniards or Syrians, while in
Syria there might be quartered Africans or Germans, and in Africa troops from the modern Austria.
We cannot call this custom an invariable one, but it was usual, and obviously it was politic.

To these two co-operating forces--legions and auxiliaries--we must add the Imperial Guards,
twelve regiments of 1000 men each, quartered in Italy, and generally congregated in a special
camp just outside the gate at the top of the Quirinal and Viminal Hills beyond the modern railway
station. Like other Guards, these were a picked body, containing many volunteers from Italy
itself, while others came from the most romanized parts of Gaul or elsewhere. They enjoyed
many privileges, wore a more gorgeous armour, served only sixteen years and received double
pay. Frequently it came to be the case that this particular body of troops was the one which
made and unmade emperors, chiefly under the influence of pecuniary promises or largess. Besides
these, 6000 City Guards were in barracks inside the metropolis for the protection of the town;
7000 gendarmerie, already mentioned, served as night-watch and fire-brigade, but perhaps scarcely
rank as soldiers. Here and there in the empire there also existed separate volunteer detachments
of various dimensions serving on special duty, and it was to one of these that belonged the
Cornelius of the Acts of the Apostles, who is there described as a centurion of the "Italian band."

It would carry us too far afield if we entered into detailed descriptions of Roman warfare--of
Roman marches, Roman camps, and fortifications, Roman sieges, and military engines. Otherwise
it would be highly interesting to watch the attack made upon an enemy's wall or gate by a band
of men pushing in front of them a wicker screen covered with hide, or holding their shields
locked together above their heads, so as to form a roof to shelter them from the spears, stones,
firebrands, and pots of flame which rained down from the walls.

Or we might see moving up on wheels a shed, from the open front of which protrudes the great
iron head of a ram affixed to a huge beam. If you were under the shed, you would see that the
beam was perhaps as much as 60 feet in length, and that it was suspended on chains or ropes
by which it could be swung, so that the head butted with a deadly insistence upon the masonry
of the wall. Meanwhile the enemy from the ramparts are doing their best to set the shed on
fire, to break off the ram's head with heavy stones, to pull it upwards by a noose, or to deaden
the effect of the shock by lowering stuffed sacks or other buffer material between it and the
wall. At another point, in place of the shed, there is rolled forward a lofty construction
like a tower built in several stories. When this approaches the wall it will overtop it, and
a drawbridge with grappling irons may be dropped upon the parapet. Elsewhere there is mining
and countermining. From a safer distance the artillery of the time is hurling its formidable
missiles. There is the "catapult," which shoots a giant arrow, sometimes tipped with material
on fire, from a groove or half-tube to a distance of a quarter of a mile. The propelling force,
in default of gunpowder or other explosive, is the recoil of strings of gut or hair which have
been tightened by a windlass. There is also the heavier "hurler," which works in much the same
manner, but which, instead of arrows, throws stones and beams of from 14 pounds to half a hundredweight,
doing effective damage up to a distance of some 400 yards.

Scius joins his legion as a private infantry soldier. He is in the "hobnailed" service. But
if our young noble, Publius Silius Bassus, enters upon a military career, he will probably
become one of the 120 Roman horsemen attached to the legion, and will be serving as a "knight"
or "gentleman," with servants to relieve him of his rougher work. The cavalrymen among whom
he serves do not ride upon a saddle with stirrups, but on a mere saddlecloth. On their left
arm is a round shield or buckler; they carry a spear of extreme reach, wear a longer sword
than the infantrymen, and on their back is a quiver containing three broad-pointed javelins,
very similar to assegais, which serve them as missiles. If by good service they obtain medallions
like the infantry, they will fasten them to the bridles and breast-straps of their horses,
and altogether will make a fine and jingling show. Through the influence of his family, Publius
will most likely be taken under the personal supervision of the general in command, will frequently
mess with him, and will perhaps act as a kind of honorary aide-de-camp. After a sufficient
initiation into military business, he will be appointed what may be called colonel of an infantry
regiment of auxiliaries, then colonel of a regiment of the legion, and subsequently, if he
is following the profession, colonel of a regiment of the auxiliary cavalry. He does not at
any time pass through the rank of centurion, any more than the British officer passes through
that of sergeant-major. The class distinction is at least as great in the case of the Romans.

When the young noble has completed this series of services--although the whole of it is not
absolutely necessary, and it will be sufficient if he has been six months titular colonel of
a regiment of the legion--he may perhaps return to Rome, and at the age of twenty-five may
enter upon his first public position, and so become himself a senator. His duties may be connected
with the Treasury at Rome itself, or more probably he will accompany a proconsul who is on
his way to govern a province for a year--perhaps Andalusia, or Macedonia, or Bithynia. To his
chief he stands for that year in a kind of filial relation. His main business will be to supervise
the financial affairs, to act as paymaster, and to keep the accounts of the province, but he
will also, when required, administer justice in place of the governor. In this capacity he
learns the methods of provincial government in readiness for the time when he himself may be
made a governor, whether by the senate or by the emperor. His next step upward will be to the
post of aedile, one of the officials who control the streets, public buildings, markets, and
police of Rome. By the age of thirty he may arrive at the second highest step on the official
ladder, in a position which qualifies him to preside over a court of law. Or it may bring with
it no greater function than that of presiding over "games" in the circus or amphitheatre, and
of spending a liberal sum of money of his own upon making them both magnificent and novel.
After this he may receive from the emperor the command of a brigade--the 12,000 men composed
of a legion and its auxiliaries--perhaps at Cologne or Mainz, perhaps at Caerleon-on-Usk, perhaps
near Antioch. In this position his movements are subject to the authority of the governor of
the province, who is the "lieutenant" or "deputy" of His Highness in the larger capacity, while
he himself is but a "lieutenant" of Caesar as commanding one of his legions.

He may now himself be appointed governor to a province, but hardly yet to those which are the
"plums" of the empire. There is still one highest post for him to fill. This is the consulship.
Under the republic the two consuls had been the highest executive officers of the state, and
the year was dated by their names. Nominally they were still in the same position, and the
sane emperors made a point of treating them with all outward respect. They took precedence
of all but "His Highness the Head of the State." But whereas under the republic there had been
but two consuls holding joint office for the year, under the emperors the post had become to
such a degree complimentary, and there were so many nobles who desired the honour or to whom
the emperor was minded to grant it, that it became the custom to hold the position only for
two months, so that twelve persons in each year might boast of being ex-consuls or having "passed
the consul's chair."

Publius Silius, we may suppose, passes up each step of the ladder, or what was called the "career
of honours," and becomes senatorial governor of no less important a province than "Asia"--that
nearer portion of Asia Minor which contained flourishing cities like Smyrna, Ephesus, and Rhodes.
In that office, as in any other which he may hold, it behoves him to comport himself with caution
and modesty. If he is a man of unusual influence or popularity he will do well to keep the
fact concealed. There must be nothing in his demeanour or his speech to lay him open to a charge
of becoming dangerous to the emperor. That emperor is Nero; and even stronger and saner emperors
than Nero watched suspiciously the behaviour of aspiring men.

CHAPTER XIX

ROMAN RELIGION--STATE AND INDIVIDUAL

To undertake to set forth with any definiteness the "religious ideas of a Roman" of A.D. 64
would be an extremely difficult task. Those ideas would differ with the individual, being determined
or varied by a number of considerations and influences--by locality, education, and temperament.
Silius would not hold the views of Scius and probably not those of Marcia. We may speak of
the "State religion" of Rome, as distinct from various other religions tolerated and practised
in different parts of the empire, but it is scarcely possible to define the contents of that
"State religion." There were certain special priests and priestly bodies who saw to it that
certain rites and ceremonies should be perfortied scrupulously in a prescribed manner and on
prescribed dates; but these were officers of the state, whose knowledge and functions were
confined to the ritual observances with which they had to deal. They were not persons trained
in a system of theology, nor were they preachers of a code of doctrines or morals; they had
no "cure of souls," and belonged to no church; they had no credo and no Bible or corresponding
authority to which to refer. Though most well-informed persons could have told the names of
the prominent deities in the calendar--such as Jupiter, Mars, Apollo, and Ceres--perhaps scarcely
any one but an encyclopaedist or antiquarian could have named one-half of the total. It is
not merely that the deities on the list were so numerous. There were other reasons for ignorance
or vagueness. In the first place, the line between the operations of one deity and those of
another was often too fine to draw, and deities originally more or less distinct came to be
confused or identified. Secondly, it was often hard, if not impossible, to make up one's mind
whether a so-called deity--such as Virtue, Peace, or Health--was supposed to have a real existence,
or whether it was simply the personification of an abstract quality. Thirdly, many of the ancient
divinities had fallen out of fashion, and to a large extent out of memory, while many new ones--Isis
and Serapis for example--had come, or were coming, into vogue.

The state possessed its old-established calendar of days sacred to a number of deities, and
its code of ritual to be performed in their honour. There were ancient prescriptions as to
what certain priests should wear, what they should do or avoid in their priestly character,
what victims--ox, sheep, or pig--they should sacrifice, what instruments they should use for
the purpose, and in what formula of words they should pray in particular connections. There
was a standing commission, with the Pontifex Maximus--at this date that excellent religious
authority, the emperor Nero--at its head, to safeguard the state religion, to see that its
requirements were carried out, and that no one ventured to commit an outrage towards it. But
the state could not have told you with any precision that you must believe in just so many
deities and no others; it could not have told you precisely what notions to entertain concerning
those deities whom it did officially recognise; it dictated no theological doctrines; neither
did it dictate any moral doctrines beyond those which you would find in the secular law. It
reserved the right to prevent the introduction of foreign or new divinities if it found sufficient
cause; but so long as the temples, the rites and ceremonies, the cardinal moral axioms of the
Roman "religion," and the basic principles of Roman society were respected, the state practised
no sort of inquisition into your beliefs or non-beliefs, and in no way interfered with your
particular selection of favourite deities.

Polytheism in an advanced community is always tolerant, because it is necessarily always indefinite.
What it does not readily endure is an organised attack upon the entire system, whether openly
avowed or manifestly implied. Even undisguised unbelief in any deity at all it is often willing
to tolerate, so long as the unbelief is rather a matter of dialectics than anything else, and
makes no attempt at a crusade. When a state so disposed is found to interfere with a novel
religion, it will generally be easy to perceive that the jealousy is not on behalf of the deities
nor of a creed, but on behalf of the community in its political, economic, or social aspect.
This, however, is perhaps to anticipate. Let us endeavour to realise as best we can the religious
situation among the Roman or romanized portion of the population.

Though we are not here directly concerned with the steps by which the Roman religion had come
to be what it was, we can scarcely hope to understand the position without some comprehension
of that development. The Romans were a conservative people, and many of the peculiarities of
their worship were due to the retention of old forms which had lost such spirit as they once
possessed.

In the infant days of the nation there had been no such things as gods in human shape, or in
recognisable shape at all. There were only "powers" or "influences" superior to mankind, by
whose aid or concurrence man must work out his existence. The early Romans and such Italian
tribes as they became blended with were, as they still are, extremely superstitious. In a pre-scientific
age they, like other peoples, were at a loss to understand what produced thunder and lightning,
rain, the fertility or failure of crops, the changes of the seasons, the flow or cessation
of springs and streams, the intoxication or exhilaration proceeding from wine, and a multitude
of other phenomena. Fire was a perplexing thing; so was wind: the woods were full of mysterious
sounds and movements. They could comprehend neither birth nor death, nor the fructification
of plants. The consequence was a feeling that these things were due to unseen agencies; and
the attempt was made to bring those powers into some sort of relation with mankind, either
by the compulsion of magical operations and magical formulae, or by sacrifices and offerings
of propitiation, or by promises. A superhuman power might be placed under a spell, or placated
with food and drink, or persuaded by a vow. Such "powers" were exceedingly numerous. Greatest
of all, and recognised equally by all, was the power working in the sky with the thunder and
the rain. Its presence was everywhere alike, and its operations most palpable at every season.
Countless others were concerned with particular localities or with particular functions. Every
wood, if not every tree, and also every fountain, was controlled by some such higher "power";
every manifestation or operation of nature came from such an "influence." There was no kind
of action or undertaking, no new stage of life or change of condition, which did not depend
for help or hindrance upon a similar power. At first the "powers" bore no distinctive names,
and were conceived in no definite shapes. They were not yet gods. The human being who sought
to work upon them to favour him could only do, say, and offer such things as he thought likely
to move them. But in process of time it became inevitable that these superhuman agencies should
be referred to under some sort of title, and the title literally expressed the conception.
Hence a multitude of names. Not only was there the ever-prominent Jupiter or "sky-father";
there a veritable multitude of powers with provinces great and small. Among the larger conceptions
the power concerned with the sowing of seed was Saturn that with the growth of crops was Ceres,
that with the blazing of fire was Vesta. Among the smaller the power which taught a babe to
eat was Edulia that which attended the bringing home of a bride was Domiduca. The ability to
speak or to walk was supposed to be imparted by separate agencies named accordingly. Flowers
depended on Flora and fruits on Pomona.

But to assign a name is a great step towards creating a "power" into a "god," and such agencies
began to take shape in the mind of those who named them. This was the second stage. Jupiter,
Ceres, Saturn, and almost all the rest became "gods." The powers in the woodlands--a Silvanus
or Faunus--became embodied, like the more modern gnomes and kobbolds. Once imagine a shape,
and the tendency is to give it visible form in an image "like unto man," and to honour it with
an abode--a temple or shrine. The earliest Romans known to us erected no images or temples,
but they were not long in creating them. Particularly rapid was the reducing of a god to human
form when they came into close contact with the Etruscans and the Greeks. For all the important
deities poetry and art combined to evolve an appropriate bodily form, which gradually became
conventional, so that the ordinary notion of a Jupiter, a Juno, a Mercury, or a Ceres was approximately
that which had been gathered from the statue thus developed. This trouble was not taken with
all the most ancient divinities. Many of the old rural and local deities, and many of those
with quite minor provinces, were left vague and unrealised. They were represented in no temples
and by no statues. Naturally as the Roman state grew from a set of neighbouring farms into
a great city, and from a small settlement into a vast empire, the little local gods fell into
the background. The deities which concerned the state, and to which it erected temples, were
those with the more far-reaching operations--such as the gods identified with the sky and its
thunders, with war, with fertility, with the sea, with the hearth-fire of all Rome. The rest
might well be left to localities or to domestic worship.

From the early days of Rome there existed a calendar for festivals to certain divinities important
to the little growing town, and a code of ceremonies to be performed in their honour, and of
formulae of prayer to be offered to them. The later Romans, in their characteristic conservatism,
adhered to those festivals, to that ritual, and to those formulae, even when some of the deities
had ceased to be of appreciable account, and when neither the meaning of the ritual nor the
sense of the old words was any longer understood by the very priests who used them.

Reflect a moment on this situation. First, we have a number of deities of the first rank, housed
in temples, embodied in statues, and recognised in all the Roman world; next a number of minor
divinities whose operations and worship may be remotely rural or otherwise local, and whose
functions are by no means always distinguishable from those of the greater gods; then a series
of more or less unintelligible ceremonials carried out by ancient rule in honour of divinities
often practically forgotten; outside these a number of vague powers presiding over small domestic
and other actions; finally, a peculiar Roman tendency--in keeping with the last--to erect into
divinities, and to symbolise in statue housed in temples, all manner of abstract qualities
and states, such as Hope, Harmony, Peace, Wealth, Health, Fame, and Youth.

Reflect again that, when the Romans, as they spread, came into contact with Greeks, Egyptians,
or other foreigners, they met with deities whose provinces were necessarily often identical
with or closely akin to their own. Then remember that there is no church and no official document
to define the complete list of Roman gods. Does it not follow, as a matter of course, on the
one hand, that the importation of new gods was an easy matter, and on the other, that no individual
Roman could draw the line as to the number of even the old-established deities in whom he should
or should not believe?

The guardians of the public religion were satisfied if the due rites were paid by the state
to those deities, on those dates, and precisely in that manner, which happened to be prescribed
in the official religious books. For the rest they left matters to the individual.

So much it has been necessary to say in order to account for existing attitudes. We must use
the plural, since the attitude of the state officials is but one of several, and, inasmuch
as the state officials themselves were not a theological caste but only secular servants of
the community administering the regulations for external worship as laid down in the records,
it often happened that their official attitude had nothing to do with their individual beliefs.
Often they did not know or care whether there was a real religious efficacy in the acts which
they performed; sometimes all that they knew was that they were doing what the state required
to be done properly by some one.

Cicero quotes a dictum of a Pontifex Maximus that there was one religion of the poet, another
of the philosopher, and another of the statesman. This is true, but it is hardly adequate.
We must at least add that of the common people. A well-known statement of more modern birth
puts the case--rather too strongly--that at our period all religions were regarded by the people
as equally true, by the philosopher as equally false and by the statesman as equally useful.
We may begin with the ordinary people of whatever station, who were not poets nor thinkers
nor magistrates. It is an error to suppose that such Romans of the first century were either
atheistic or indifferent to religion. Their fault was rather that they were too superstitious,
ready to believe too much rather than too little, but to believe without relating their belief
to conduct. They did not question the existence of the traditional gods, nor the characters
attributed to them; they were ready to perform their dues of worship and to make their due
offerings, but all this had no bearing upon their own morality. They believed with the terror
of the superstitious in omens and portents, and in rites of expiation and purification to avert
the threatened evil. They were alarmed by thunder and lightning, earthquakes, bad dreams, ravens
seen on the wrong side of the road, and other evil tokens. They commonly accepted the existence
of malign spirits, including ghosts. They were prepared to believe that on occasion a statue
had bled or turned round on its base; that an ox had spoken in human language; or that there
had been a rain of blood. There were doubtless exceptions, and superstition was less dire and
oppressive than once it was. More than fifty years before our date Cicero had said that even
old women no longer shuddered at the terrors of an underworld, and fifty years after it the
satirist asserts the same of children. But both writers are speaking somewhat hyperbolically.
Doubtless it had been wondered how two augurs could look at each other without a smile, but
there is nothing to show that even a minority of augurs were acutely conscious of anything
to smile at.

In the multiplicity of deities the ordinary people were prepared to accept as many more as
you chose to offer them, especially if the worship attaching to them contained mystic or orgiastic
ceremonies. By this date the populace had become exceedingly mixed, especially in the capital,
and the cool hard-headed Roman stock had been largely replaced or leavened by foreign elements,
especially from the East. The official worship of the state was formal and frigid; it offered
nothing to the emotions or the hopes. Many among the people felt an instinct for something
more sacramental, and especially attractive was any form of worship which promised a continued
existence, and probably a happier existence, after death. Even the mere mysteriousness of a
form of worship had its allurements. Hence a tendency to Judaism, still more to the Egyptian
worship of Isis and Osiris. The latter made many proselytes, particularly among the women,
and contained ideas which are by no means ignoble but to our modern minds far more truly "religious"
than anything to be found in the native Roman cults. To pass through purification, to practise
asceticism, to feel that there was a life beyond the grave apportioned to your deserts, to
go through an impressive form of worship held every day, and to have the emotions thus worked
upon--all this supplied something to the moral nature which was lacking in the chill sacrifices
and prayers to Jupiter and the other national divinities. In vain had the authorities, in their
doubt as to the moral effects, tried on several occasions to suppress this foreign worship;
it always revived, and it now held its established place both in the imperial city and in the
provinces, particularly near the sea, for it was especially a sailors' religion. Rome, like
Pompeii, had its temple of Isis and her daily celebrations. There was, however, no necessary
conflict between this worship and the official religion. It was quite possible to accept Isis
while accepting Jupiter. Nor, though this particular cult has required mention, must it be
taken as belonging to more than a section of the Roman population. Most Romans would look upon
it and other deviations with acquiescence, some with contempt, and perhaps some with a shake
of the head, while themselves satisfied with an indifferent conformity to the more established
customs of the state.

Setting aside the devotees of the mystic, the more ordinary point of view was that between
Romans and the established gods of Rome there is an understanding. The gods will support Rome
so long as Rome pays to them their dues of formal recognition. Their ritual must not be neglected
by the authorities; it is not necessary for an individual member of the community to concern
himself further in the matter. The state, through its appointed ministers, will make the necessary
sacrifices and say the necessary words; the citizen need not put in an appearance or take any
part. He will not do or say anything disrespectful towards the deities in question, and he
will enjoy the festivals belonging to them. If remarkable portents and disasters occur, he
will agree that there is something wrong in the behaviour of the state, and that there must
be some public purification or other placation of the gods. If the state orders such a proceeding,
he will perform whatever may be his share in it. So far he is loyal to the "religion of the state."

In his private capacity he has his own wants, fears, and hopes. He therefore betakes himself
to whatever divinity he considers most likely to help him; he makes his own prayers and vows
an offering if his request is granted. Reduced to plain commercial language his ordinary attitude
is--no success, no payment. A cardinal difference between the religion of the Romans and our
own is to be seen in the nature of their prayers. They always ask for some definite advantage--prosperity,
safety, health, or the like. They never pray for a clean heart or for some moral improvement.
Of more importance than the man's moral condition will be his scrupulous observance of the
right external practices. Unlike the Greek, he will cover his head when he prays. He will raise
his hand to his lips before the statue, or, if he is appealing to the celestial deities, he
will stretch his palms upwards above his head; if to the infernal powers, he will hold them
downwards. These are the things that matter.

At home, if he belongs to the better type of representative citizen, our Roman has his household
shrine and his household divinities, whom he never neglects. If he is very pious, he may pray
to them every morning, or at least before every enterprise. In any case he will remember them
with a small offering when he dines. There are the "gods of the stores"--his "penates"--certain
deities whom he has selected as guardians of his belongings, and who have their little images
by the hearth in the kitchen. There is the household "protector," or more commonly there are
two, who may be painted under the form of lightly-stepping youths in a little niche or shrine
above a small altar. To these he will offer fruits, flowers, incense, and cakes. And there
is the "Genius" of the master of the house, who is also painted on the wall, or who may be
represented by his own portrait bust or by the picture of a snake. That "Genius" means the
power presiding over his vitality and health and wellbeing. If he is an artisan and belongs
to a guild, he will pay special worship to the patron god or goddess of that guild--to Vesta,
if he is a baker, to Minerva, if he is a fuller. Out of doors he will find a street shrine
in the wall at a crossing, pertaining to the tutelary god of what may be called his "parish,"
and this he will not neglect. Like all other orthodox Romans he will not undertake any new
enterprise--betrothal, marriage, journey, or important business--without ascertaining that
the auspices are favourable.

In a general way he has a notion that the gods are displeased at certain forms of crime, and
that they approve of justice and the carrying out of compacts. The gods overlook the state,
because the state engages them so to do, and therefore to break the laws of the state is to
anger the gods of the state. But this is rather subtle for the common man, and there is generally
no understood immediate relation between these gods and his moral conduct, unless he has sworn
an oath by one or other of them. The purpose of calling a god to witness is to bring upon a
perjurer the anger of the offended deity. But he entertains no such conception as the modern
one of "sin" or of "remorse for sin." "Sin" is either a breach of the secular law or breach
of a contract with a deity and "remorse" is but fear of or regret for the consequences.

His morality is determined by the laws of the state, family discipline, and social custom.
For that reason his vices on the positive side will mostly be those of his appetites, and on
the negative side a want of charity and compassion. He may be guiltless of lying and stealing,
murder and violence; he may be honest and law-abiding; but there is nothing to make him temperate,
continent, or gentle. His avowed code is "duty," and duty is defined by law and tradition.

If this is the religious condition of the common-place man or woman--a blend of superstition,
formalism, and tolerance--it is by no means that of the educated thinker. Such persons were
for the most part freethinkers. Many of them, finding no better guide to conduct, conform to
the "religion" of the state without any real belief in its gods or attaching any importance
to its ceremonies. They do not feel called upon to propagate any other views, and they probably
think the current notions are at least as good for the ignorant as any others. If they are
poets, like Horace or Lucan, they will dress up the mythology, mostly from Greek models, and
write fluently about Jupiter and Juno, Venus and Mercury, either attributing to them the recognised
characters and legends, or varying them so as to make them more picturesque and interesting--perhaps
even improving them--but all the time believing no more in the stories they are telling, or
in the deities themselves, than Tennyson need have believed in King Arthur and Guinevere. The
gods are good poetic material and are sure to afford popular, or at least inoffensive, reading.
The poets doubtless do something to humanise and beautify the popular conception of a deity,
but they seldom deliberately set out with any such purpose. If the educated are not poets,
but public men of affairs, they may believe just as little, and yet regard the established
cult of the gods as an excellent discipline for the vulgar and the best known means of upholding
the national principle of "duty." If they are philosophers they may not, and the Epicureans
in reality do not, believe in the gods at all--certainly not as they are generally conceived--and
will openly discuss in speech and in writing the question of their existence or non-existence,
and of their character and nature if they do exist. They will endeavour to substitute for the
barren formalism of rites and ceremonies, or the inconsistent or incomplete traditional morality
of duty, another set of principles as a sounder guide to life and conduct. Some are monotheists,
some are simply in doubt. Says Nero's own tutor, Seneca, "Do you want to propitiate the gods?
Then be good. The true worshipper of the gods is he who acts like them." "Better," remarks
Plutarch, "not believe in a God at all than cringe before a god who is worse than the worst
of men." In the actual worship of images none of them believe. One conspicuous writer of the
time says: "To look for a form and shape to a god, I consider to be a mark of human feebleness
of mind." Concerning the schools of thought and in particular the tenets of those Stoics and
Epicureans whom St. Paul met at Athens, and whom he could meet in educated circles all over
the Roman Empire, we shall have to speak in a following chapter, when summing up the intellectual
and moral condition of the time. Meanwhile it should be understood that, though a profound
or anything approaching a professional study of philosophy was discouraged among the true Romans--more
than once the professional philosophers were banished from the capital--there were few cultivated
persons who did not to some extent dabble in it, and even go so far as to profess an adherence
to one school or another. None of these men believed in the "Roman religion" as administered
by the state, although many of them were administering it themselves. The same man could one
day freely discuss the gods in conversation or a treatise, and the next he might be clad in
priestly garb and officially seeing that the rites of sacrifice were being religiously carried
out in terms of the books, or that the auspices were being properly taken.

It does not, however, follow at all that because poet or public man cared nothing for the pantheon
and all its mythology, he was therefore without his superstitions. He might still tremble at
signs and portents, at comets, at dreams, and at the unpropitious behaviour of birds and beasts.
He might believe in astrology and resort to its professors, called the "Chaldaeans." On the
other hand he might laugh at such things. It was all a matter of temperament. It certainly
was not every man who dared to act like one of the Roman admirals. When it was reported that
the omens were unpropitious to an imminent battle because the sacred chickens "would not eat,"
he ordered them to be thrown into the sea so that at least they might drink. The freethinkers
were in advance of their times. "Science" in the modern sense hardly existed, and until phenomena
are explained it is hard to avoid a perplexity or astonishment which is equivalent to superstition.

Consider now these various states of mind--that of the people, ready to add almost any deity
to the large and vague number already recognised; that of the poet, who finds the deities such
useful literary material; that of the magistrate or public man, who, without enthusiasm or
necessary belief, regards religion as a thing useful to society; and that of the philosopher,
who thinks all the current religious conceptions unsound, if not absurd, and morally almost
useless.

Manifestly a society so composed will be one of unusual tolerance. The Romans had no disposition
to force their religion on the subject provinces of the empire. Their religion was the Roman
religion; the religion of the Greeks might be left Greek, the Jewish religion Jewish, and the
Egyptian religion Egyptian. Any nation had a right to the religion of its fathers. Nay, the
Jews had such peculiar notions about a Sabbath day and other matters that a Jew was exempted
from the military service which would have compelled him to break his national laws. All religions
were permitted, so long as they were national religions. Also all religious views were permitted
to the individual, so long as they were not considered dangerous to the empire or imperial
rule, or so long as they threatened no appreciable harm to the social order. If a Jew came
to Rome and practised Judaism well and good. It was, in the eyes of the Romans, a narrow-minded
and uncharitable religion, marked by many strange and absurd practices and superstitions, but
if a misguided oriental people liked to indulge in it, well and good. Even if a Roman became
a proselyte to Judaism, well and good, so long as he did not flout the official religion of
his own country. If the Egyptians chose to worship cats, ibises, and crocodiles, that was their
affair, so long as they let other people alone. In Gaul, it is true, the emperor Claudius,
predecessor of Nero, had put down the Druids. Earlier still the Druids had already been interfered
with; but that was because the Druids--those weird old white-sheeted men with their long beards
and strange magic--were performing human sacrifices--burning men alive in wicker frames--and
such conduct was not only contrary to the secular law of Rome, but even to natural law. And
when Claudius finally suppressed them, or drove the remnant out of Gaul into Britain, it was
not simply because they worshipped non-Roman gods and performed non-Roman rites, but because
they were, as they had always notoriously been, a dangerous political influence interfering
with the proper carrying out of the Roman government.

