Note 30: Elizabeth Farren, born 1759, made her first appearance before a London audience as
Miss Hardcastle, in "She Stoops to Conquer," on June 9, 1777. After years spent in strolling
through the provinces in her father's company and that of other managers, she now captivated
the town. Her beautiful face, exquisitely modulated voice, elegant figure, and natural grace,
rendered her an ideal representative of the fine ladies of comedy. She was welcomed into the
most distinguished society in London, and whilst acting as manageress of private theatricals
at the Duke of Richmond's house in Whitehall, met Edward, twelfth Earl of Derby, whose wife
was then living. This did not prevent him from falling in love with Miss Farren, who, it was
understood, would succeed his first wife as countess did the latter predecease the actress.
Lady Derby died on March 14, 1797 and on the 8th of the following month Miss Farren took leave
of the stage in the character of Lady Teazle, and on the 1st of May was married to Lord Derby,
she being then in her thirty-eighth year. Even in this scandal-loving and licentious age no
imputation had ever been cast upon her honour. Of the three children born of this union, but
one survived, a daughter, who marred the Earl of Wilton. The Countess of Derby lived until
1829.--Ed.

Note 31: Mrs. Robinson played Lady Macbeth on the occasion of her benefit, when was also performed
a musical farce she had composed entitled, "A Lucky Escape."--Ed.

Note 32: The famous politician, Charles James Fox, a friend of the Prince of Wales.--Ed.

Note 33: George III. and Queen Charlotte, who frequently attended the theatre.--Ed.

Note 34: This performance of "The Winter's Tale" took place on December 3, 1779, she being
at that time in her twenty-second year, and the Prince of Wales in his eighteenth year.--Ed.

Note 35: Smith had been educated at Eton and St. John's College, Cambridge, with a view to
becoming a clergyman, but eventually went on the stage and proved himself an excellent actor,
whose representation of Charles Surface was considered a finished performance.--Ed.

Note 36: George Chapel Coningsby, Viscount Malden, afterward fifth Earl of Essex, born November
13, 1757. He married twice, his second wife being Miss Stephens, the famous singer.--Ed.

Note 37: Those who have read "The Winter's Tale" will know the significance of these adopted names.

Note 38: The writer evidently makes a mistake in fixing the Oratorio for the next night, as
will be seen from the note on the next page.--Ed.

Note 39: Frederick Augustus, Duke of York and Albany, second son of George III., who at the
age of six months was elected to the valuable bishopric of Osnaburg.--Ed.

Note 40: Another of the "diurnal prints," dated February 12, 1780, is not so complimentary
in its remarks, which run as follows: "A circumstance of rather an embarrassing nature happened
at last night's Oratorio. Mrs. R----, decked out in all her finery, took care to post herself
in one of the upper boxes immediately opposite the prince's, and by those airs peculiar to
herself, contrived at last so to basilisk a certain heir-apparent, that his fixed attention
to the beautiful object became generally noticed, and soon after astonished their Majesties,
who, not being able to discover the cause, seemed at a loss to account for the extraordinary
effect. No sooner, however, were they properly informed than a messenger was instantly sent
aloft desiring the dart-dealing actress to withdraw, which she complied with, though not without
expressing the utmost chagrin at her mortifying removal."--Ed.

