GENTLE JULIA

CHAPTER ONE

Superciliousness is not safe after all, because a person who forms the habit of wearing it
may some day find his lower lip grown permanently projected beyond the upper, so that he can't
get it back, and must go through life looking like the King of Spain. This was once foretold
as a probable culmination of Florence Atwater's still plastic profile, if Florence didn't change
her way of thinking; and upon Florence's remarking dreamily that the King of Spain was an awf'ly
han'some man, her mother retorted: "But not for a girl!" She meant, of course, that a girl
who looked too much like the King of Spain would not be handsome, but her daughter decided
to misunderstand her.

"Why, mamma, he's my Very Ideal! I'd marry him to-morrow!"

Mrs. Atwater paused in her darning, and let the stocking collapse flaccidly into the work-basket
in her lap. "Not at barely thirteen, would you?" she said. "It seems to me you're just a shade
too young to be marrying a man who's already got a wife and several children. Where did you
pick up that 'I'd-marry-him-to-morrow,' Florence?"

"Oh, I hear that everywhere!" returned the damsel, lightly. "Everybody says things like that.
I heard Aunt Julia say it. I heard Kitty Silver say it."

"About the King of Spain?" Mrs. Atwater inquired.

"I don't know who they were saying it about," said Florence, "but they were saying it. I don't
mean they were saying it together; I heard one say it one time and the other say it some other
time. I think Kitty Silver was saying it about some coloured man. She proba'ly wouldn't want
to marry any white man; at least I don't expect she would. She's been married to a couple of
coloured men, anyhow; and she was married twice to one of 'em, and the other one died in between.
Anyhow, that's what she told me. She weighed over two hunderd pounds the first time she was
married, and she weighed over two hunderd-and-seventy the last time she was married to the
first one over again, but she says she don't know how much she weighed when she was married
to the one in between. She says she never got weighed all the time she was married to that
one. Did Kitty Silver ever tell you that, mamma?"

"Yes, often!" Mrs. Atwater replied. "I don't think it's very entertaining; and it's not what
we were talking about. I was trying to tell you----"

"I know," Florence interrupted. "You said I'd get my face so's my underlip wouldn't go back
where it ought to, if I didn't quit turning up my nose at people I think are beneath contemp'.
I guess the best thing would be to just feel that way without letting on by my face, and then
there wouldn't be any danger."

"No," said Mrs. Atwater. "That's not what I meant. You mustn't let your feelings get their
nose turned up, or their underlip out, either, because feelings can grow warped just as well
as----"

But her remarks had already caused her daughter to follow a trail of thought divergent from
the main road along which the mother feebly struggled to progress. "Mamma," said Florence,
"do you b'lieve it's true if a person swallows an apple-seed or a lemon-seed or a watermelon-seed,
f'r instance, do you think they'd have a tree grow up inside of 'em? Henry Rooter said it would,
yesterday."

Mrs. Atwater looked a little anxious. "Did you swallow some sort of seed?" she asked.

"It was only some grape-seeds, mamma; and you needn't think I got to take anything for it,
because I've swallowed a million, I guess, in my time!"

"In your time?" her mother repeated, seemingly mystified.

"Yes, and so have you and papa," Florence went on. "I've seen you when you ate grapes. Henry
said maybe not, about grapes, because I told him all what I've just been telling you, mamma,
how I must have swallowed a million, in my time, and he said grape-seeds weren't big enough
to get a good holt, but he said if I was to swallow an apple-seed a tree would start up, and
in a year or two, maybe, it would grow up so't I couldn't get my mouth shut on account the
branches."

"Nonsense!"

"Henry said another boy told him, but he said you could ask anybody and they'd tell you it
was true. Henry said this boy that told him's uncle died of it when he was eleven years old,
and this boy knew a grown woman that was pretty sick from it right now. I expect Henry wasn't
telling such a falsehood about it, mamma, but proba'ly this boy did, because I didn't believe
it for a minute! Henry Rooter says he never told a lie yet, in his whole life, mamma, and he
wasn't going to begin now." She paused for a moment, then added: "I don't believe a word he says!"

She continued to meditate disapprovingly upon Henry Rooter. "Old thing!" she murmured gloomily,
for she had indeed known moments of apprehension concerning the grape-seeds. "Nothing but an
old thing--what he is!" she repeated inaudibly.

"Florence," said Mrs. Atwater, "don't you want to slip over to grandpa's and ask Aunt Julia
if she has a very large darning needle? And don't forget not to look supercilious when you
meet people on the way. Even your grandfather has been noticing it, and he was the one that
spoke of it to me. Don't forget!"

"Yes'm."

Florence went out of the house somewhat moodily, but afternoon sunshine enlivened her; and,
opening the picket gate, she stepped forth with a fair renewal of her chosen manner toward
the public, though just at that moment no public was in sight. Miss Atwater's underlip resumed
the position for which her mother had predicted that regal Spanish fixity, and her eyebrows
and nose were all three perceptibly elevated. At the same time, her eyelids were half lowered,
while the corners of her mouth somewhat deepened, as by a veiled mirth, so that this well-dressed
child strolled down the shady sidewalk wearing an expression not merely of high-bred contempt
but also of mysterious derision. It was an expression that should have put any pedestrian in
his place, and it seems a pity that the long street before her appeared to be empty of human
life. No one even so much as glanced from a window of any of the comfortable houses, set back
at the end of their "front walks" and basking amid pleasant lawns; for, naturally, this was
the "best residence street" in the town, since all the Atwaters and other relatives of Florence
dwelt there. Happily, an old gentleman turned a corner before she had gone a hundred yards,
and, as he turned in her direction, it became certain that they would meet. He was a stranger--that
is to say, he was unknown to Florence--and he was well dressed; while his appearance of age
(proba'ly at least forty or sixty or something) indicated that he might have sense enough to
be interested in other interesting persons.

