An hour or two will be enough to see everything worth seeing at Birkenhead. To those who enjoy
the sight of the river and shipping, it is not a bad plan to stop at one of the hotels there,
as boats cross every five minutes, landing at a splendid iron pontoon, or floating stage, on
the Liverpool side, of large dimensions, constructed with great skill by Mr. W. Cubitt, C.E.,
to avoid the nuisance of landing carriages at all times, and passengers at low tides in boats.

At Liskeard, a ferry on the Cheshire side, Mr. Harold Littledale--a member of one of the first
firms in Liverpool--has established a model dairy farm, perhaps one of the finest establishments
of the kind in the kingdom.

All the buildings and arrangements have been executed from the plans and directions of Mr.
William Torr, the well known scientific farmer and short- horn breeder, of Aylsby Manor, Lincolnshire.
No expense has been spared in obtaining the best possible workmanship and implements, but there
has been no waste in foolish experiments; and, consequently, there is all the difference between
the farm of a rich man who spends money profusely, in order to teach himself farming, and a
farm like that at Liskeard, where a rich man had said to an agriculturist, at once scientific
and practical, "Spare no expense, and make me the best thing that money can make."

The buildings, including a residence, cottages, and gardens, occupy about four acres, and the
farm consists of 350 acres of strong clay land, which has been thoroughly drained and profusely
manured, with the object of getting from it the largest possible crops.  Fifty tons of turnips
have been obtained from an acre.

Eighty cows are kept in the shippons, ranged in rows, facing the paths by which they are all
fed at the head.  They are fed on turnips, mangels, or potatoes, with cut chaff of hay and
straw, everything suitable being cut and steamed, in the winter--on green clover, Italian ray-grass,
and a little linseed-cake, in the summer.  They are curry-combed twice a day, and the dung
is removed constantly as it falls.  The ventilation and the drainage has been better managed
than in most houses, so that the shippons have always a sweet atmosphere and even temperature.
The fittings, fastenings, and arrangements of the windows, hanging from little railways, and
sliding instead of closing on hinges, are all ingenious, and worth examination.  Mr. Littledale
makes use of a moveable wooden railway, carted over by a donkey in a light waggon, to draw
root crops from a field of heavy land.

The churn in use in the dairy makes eighty pounds of butter at a time, and is worked by the
steam-engine also used for cutting and steaming the food of the cows.  The milk and cream produced
at this dairy is sold by retail, unadulterated, and is in great demand.  A brief account of
this farm appeared in the "Farmer's Magazine" of May, 1848, with a ground plan; but several
improvements have been made since that time.  To parties who take an interest in agricultural
improvement, a visit to Liskeard Farm will be both interesting and profitable.

We believe that Mr. Torr also farms another estate, which he purchased, in conjunction with
friends, from Sir William Stanley, at Eastham, near Hooton (a pleasant voyage of an hour up
the river), and cultivates after the North Lincolnshire style, in such a manner as to set an
example to the Cheshire farmers--not a little needed.  The country about Eastham is the prettiest
part of the Mersey.

While on the subject of agricultural improvements, we may mention that Mr. Robert Neilson,
another mercantile notability, holds a farm, under Lord Stanley, at a short railroad ride from
Liverpool, which we have not yet had an opportunity of examining, but understand that it is
a very remarkable instance of good farming, and consequently heavy crops, in a county (Lancashire)
where slovenly farming is quite the rule, and well worth a visit from competent judges, whom
as we are also informed Mr. Neilson is happy to receive.

If, as seems not improbable, it should become the fashion among our merchant princes to seek
health and relaxation by applying capital and commercial principles to land, good farming will
spread, by force of vaccination, over the country, and plain tenant-farmers will apply, cheaply
and economically, the fruits of experience, purchased dearly, although not too dearly, by merchant
farmers.  A successful man may as well--nay, much better--sink money for a small return in
such a wholesome and useful pursuit as agriculture, than in emulating the landed aristocracy,
who laugh quietly at such efforts, or hoarding and speculating to add to what is already more
than enough.

If a visit be paid to Mr. Neilson's farm, it would be very desirable to obtain, if possible,
permission to view the Earl of Derby's collection of rare birds and animals, one of the finest
in the world.  But permission is rarely granted to strangers who have not some scientific claim
to the favour. Lord Derby has agents collecting for him in every part of the world, and has
been very successful in rearing many birds from tropical and semi-tropical countries in confinement,
which have baffled the efforts of zoological societies.  The aviaries are arranged on a large
scale, with shrubs growing in and water flowing through them.  In fine weather some beautiful
parrots, macaws, and other birds of a tame kind, are permitted to fly about the grounds.  There
is something very novel and striking in beholding brilliant macaws and cockatoos swinging on
a lofty green-leaved bough, and then, at the call of the keeper, darting down to be fed where
stately Indian and African cranes and clumsy emus are stalking about.

The late Earl was celebrated as a cockfighter, and the possessor of one of the finest breeds
of game fowls in the kingdom.  A few only are now kept up at Knowsley, as presents to the noble
owner's friends.  Knowsley lies near Prescott, about seven miles from Liverpool.  The family
are descended from the Lord Stanley who was created Earl of Derby by the Earl of Lancaster
and Derby, afterwards Henry IV., for services rendered at the battle of Bosworth Field.  An
ancestress, Charlotte de la Tremouille, Countess of Derby, is celebrated for her defence of
Latham House against the Parliamentary forces in the Great Civil War, and is one of the heroines
of Sir Walter Scott's novel of "Peveril of the Peak." {159}

Liverpool is particularly well placed as a starting point for excursions, in consequence of
the number of railways with which it is connected, and the number of steamboats which frequent
its port, where a whole dock is especially devoted to vessels of that class.

By crossing over to Birkenhead, Chester may be reached, and thence the quietest route to Ireland,
by Britannia Bridge and Holyhead; or a journey through North Wales may be commenced.  By the
East Lancashire, starting from the Station behind the Exchange, a direct line is opened through
Ormskirk to Preston, the lakes of Cumberland, and to Scotland by the west coast line.

From the same station a circuitous route through Wigan and Bolton, on the Lancashire and Yorkshire
Railway, opens a second road to Manchester, and affords a complete communication with the manufacturing
districts of Lancashire and Yorkshire.

On the roads to London it is not now necessary to treat.

The steam accommodation from Liverpool has always been excellent, far superior to that afforded
in the Thames.  No such wretched slow-sailing tubs are to be found as those which plied between
London and Boulogne and Calais, until railway competition introduced a little improvement.
The interior fittings and feeding on board Liverpool boats are generally superior.  The proprietors
have taken the Scotch and Americans as models, and not the stingy people of the Thames.

It is very odd that while the French and Scotch can contrive to give a delicious breakfast
or dinner on shipboard, while the Germans on the Rhine are positively luxurious, and while
we know that a steam-boiler offers every convenience for petits plats, the real old English
steam-boats of the General Steam Navigation Company never vary from huge joints and skinny
chickens, with vegetables plain boiled.

We remember, some years ago, embarking on a splendid French steamer, afterwards run down and
sunk in the Channel, to go to Havre, and returning by Boulogne to London.  In the French vessel
it was almost impossible to keep from eating,--soups, cutlets, plump fowls, all excellent and
not dear.  On board the English boat it was necessary to be very hungry, in order to attack
the solid, untempting joints of roast and boiled.

This is a travelling age, and both hotel keepers and steam-boat owners will find profit in
allowing the spirit of free trade and interchange to extend to the kitchen.  Our public cooks
are always spoiling the best meat and vegetables in Europe.

More than twenty lines of steamers ply from Liverpool to the various ports of Ireland; the
Isle of Man, which is a favourite watering-place for the Lancashire and Cheshire people; Glasgow
and other parts of Scotland, Whitehaven and Carlisle, Bangor, Caernarvon, and other ports of
Wales, beside the deep-sea steamers to New York, Philadelphia, and Boston; to Constantinople,
Malta, and Smyrna; and to Gibraltar, Genoa, Leghorn, Civita Vecchia (for Rome), Naples, Messina,
and Palermo; so that an indifferent traveller has ample choice, which is sometimes very convenient
for a man who wants to go somewhere and does not care where.

The amusements of Liverpool include two theatres, an amphitheatre for horsemanship, and several
sets of subscription concerts, for the use of which a fine hall has been erected.

The race-course is situated at some miles distant from the town; races take place three times
a-year, two being flat races, and the third a steeple- chase.  They are well supported and
attended, although not by ladies so much as in the Midland and Northern Counties.  The Liverpool
races are chiefly matters of business, something like the Newmarket, with the addition of a
mob.  A large attendance comes from Manchester, where more betting is carried on than in any
town out of London.  Gambling of all kinds naturally follows in the wake of cotton speculation,
which is gambling.

The crashes produced in Liverpool by the sacra fames auri are sometimes startling, and they
come out in visible relief, because, in spite of its size, gossip flourishes as intensely as
in a village.  During one of the cotton manias a young gentleman, barely of age, in possession
of an income of some two thousand a-year from land, and ready money to the extent of one hundred
and fifty thousand pounds, joined an ingenious penniless gentleman in speculating in cotton,
and found himself in less than twelve months a bankrupt; thus sacrificing, without the least
enjoyment, a fortune sufficient for the enjoyment of every rational pleasure, or for the support
of the highest honours in the State.

Such instances are not uncommon, although on a less magnificent scale; indeed, it is well to
be cautious in inquiring after a Liverpool merchant or broker after an absence of a few years;
a very few years are sufficient to render the poor rich and the rich poor, an eighth of a penny
in the pound of cotton will do it.

The Municipal Corporation of Liverpool is the wealthiest in England after London, and virtually
richer than London, inasmuch as the expenses are trifling, the property is improving, and the
Liverpool aldermen and common- councillors have no vested claims to costly entertainments.

The majority is in the hands of the Conservative party, the Liberal party having only enjoyed
the sweets of power for a brief period after the passing of the Financial Reform Bill; but
the principle of representation keeps down any inclination toward the inevitable jobberies
of a close self-elected body, and pushes local legislators on, quite up to the mark of the
public opinion of the locality they govern.

A stranger, who has no interest in party squabbles, must confess that the funds of this wealthy
estate are on the whole fairly and wisely distributed.

The Irish population, amounting to many thousands of the poorest and most ignorant class, who
find a refuge from the miseries of their own country in the first port from Dublin, and employment
in the vast demand for unskilled labour caused by the perpetual movement in imports and exports,
impose a heavy tax on the poor-rates and police-rates of this borough.

In the education of this part of the community, the Liberal Corporation made provision in the
extensive Corporation schools, by adopting the Irish Government scheme of instruction, permitting
the Roman Catholics to make use of their own translation of the Bible, and to absent themselves
from the religious instruction of the orthodox.

On this question the municipal elections were fought.  The general education party were eventually
beaten.  The Roman Catholics were withdrawn from the schools, and thrown entirely upon the
priests or the streets for education, and great was the rejoicing among the party who carried
a large wooden Bible as their standard.

But subsequent events have induced those who have given any attention to the state of the operative
classes in Liverpool, of whatever politics, to doubt whether it would not have been better
to have been busy, for the last fifteen years, in teaching those classes something, who, knowing
nothing, supply very expensive customers to the Liverpool courts of law and jail.

Liverpool returns two members to the House of Commons.

The election contests were formerly wonderfully bitter and absurd, for on one occasion, just
before the passing of the Reform Bill, nearly two hundred thousand pounds were spent by two
parties, between whose politics there was scarcely a shade of difference.

William Roscoe represented Liverpool for a short time, but was rejected at a second election,
in consequence of his opposition to the Slave Trade.  He was the son of a publican, and rose
from an office boy to be an attorney in large practice, and eventually a banker.  He was ruined
by the stopping of his bank, which, after being for many years under the taxing harrows of
the old corrupt bankrupt system, paid twenty shillings in the pound.  William Roscoe was a
voluminous writer of political pamphlets and poetry, which are now quite forgotten; his literary
reputation deservedly rests upon his lives of Lorenzo de Medici, published in 1796, and of
Leo X; the former of which has recently been republished by Mr. Bohn, in his cheap series of
reprints.

Of even more value than his literary productions, was the school, or party, which he founded
in Liverpool, while he was still wealthy and influential, embracing all who had a taste for
literature and art.  At that period Liverpool was rising into wealth on a vigorous prosecution
of the Slave Trade, of which its parliamentary representatives were the avowed supporters.
At that time vulgar wealth was the only distinction, and low debauchery the almost only amusement
of the principal merchants.  Absurd as it may now seem, when all the well-to-do world profess
to be educated and temperate, Roscoe and his friends rendered inestimable service by making
elegant tastes and temperate habits respectable, and by raising up an opposition to the old
Slave Trade party, whose paradise lay in turtle soup, port wine, and punch. He set an example
to merchants of stocking a library as well as a cellar, which has been followed, until now
it is considered a matter of course. William Roscoe died in 1831, at a very advanced age. 
He was a remarkably fine-looking man, with a grand aristocratic head.

In addition to Huskisson and George Canning, Liverpool once very nearly had the honour of sending
to Parliament Henry Brougham, in days when the Chancellorship and the House of Lords could
scarcely have been expected by that versatile genius, even in a dream.

At present Liverpool interests are well represented in the House of Commons. The borough has
had the good sense to prefer a merchant townsman, Sir Thomas Birch, and the son of a merchant,
and friend and co-minister of the late Sir Robert Peel, Mr. Cardwell, to a soldier, and the
dreamy poetical son of a Protectionist duke.  A place like Liverpool ought to find in its own
body better men than young lords or old soldiers.  But young Liverpool dearly loves a lord,
of any politics; and a little polite attention from a duke will produce an unconscious effect
even on the trade report of a broker of "fashion."

Mr. William Brown, at the head of the greatest American house in the world, after Baring's,
represents South Lancashire, but on Manchester influence, scarcely with the consent of Liverpool.
Mr. Brown, who is an Irishman by birth, has been entirely the architect of his own fortune,
and began business--on a very limited scale indeed--within the memory of persons now living.
The firm has now agents in every town of any importance in the United States, and is the means
of keeping in active employment hundreds of traders in all our manufacturing districts.  The
relations with Birmingham and the hardware country are very close.  Another Liverpool man of
whom the Liverpool people are justly proud, is the best debater in the House of Commons, if
he only knew his own mind, the Right Honourable William Gladstone, the son of Sir John Gladstone,
Bart., of Fasque, N.B., formerly a Liverpool merchant.  Sir John Gladstone is a Scotchman,
and in conjunction with another gentleman, also the head of a first-rate Liverpool house, Mr.
Sandbatch, went out to the West Indies (Demerara) as journeymen bakers, in the same way that
Mr. Miles, the grandfather of the members for East Somerset and Bristol, and founder of the
great Bristol banking house, went out to Barbadoes as a journeyman cooper.  If we add to these
instances that the first Sir Robert Peel and Mr. Brotherton (who himself told the House, in
a debate on the Factory Time Bill, that he had commenced life as a factory operative), beside
many others, too numerous to mention, it will be found that our House of Commons is not so
far out of the reach of industrious merit as foreigners usually imagine.

In conclusion, we may note that Liverpool, which gave very cold and niggard support to the
Great Exhibition (chiefly because the project was ill received by the ducal house which patronizes
the fashionables of the town), sent a contribution which very completely represented its imports,
specifying the scientific and commercial name of each article, country of production, and quantity
imported.

This collection occupies a considerable space, but it will be found, on examination, that a
few staples employ the greater part of the shipping inwards.  Cotton occupies by far the largest
place, the air is filled with floating motes of cotton all round the business quarters of the
town; timber probably stands next in the tonnage it employs; West Indian produce is less important
than it was formerly; a great trade is done with South America, in hides, both dry and salted;
tobacco, both from the United States and Cuba, arrives in large quantities.  There are several
great snuff and cigar manufactories in Liverpool.  The hemp and tallow trade is increasing,
as is the foreign corn trade.  The Mediterranean, and especially the Italian, trade, has been
rendered more important by steam communication.  The China trade has not increased as much
as was expected.

When the Docks and Public Institutions have been examined, and the places of interest on the
Cheshire shore visited, Liverpool presents nothing to detain the traveller who has no private
claims on his attention.

It must be acknowledged that the general appearance of the town and of the people is more agreeable
than that of Birmingham or Manchester, although Liverpool can claim none of the historical
and antiquarian interest in which Bristol and Chester are rich.  There are parts of the town
devoted to low lodging houses, and accommodation for the poor Irish and emigrants, as bad as
the worst parts of St. Giles's or Spitalfields.  Indeed, the mortality is greater than that
of any other town in England.

Liverpool is a great port for emigration to the United States and Canada.  On the line of packet
ships the accommodation for those who can pay 5 pounds and upwards is excellent; in the timber
ships they are packed like herrings after being lodged like pigs.  But what can be expected
for the fare.  At 2 pounds the shipowners undertake to give a passage, and find two quarts
of water and a pound of bread per day.  The Government Emigration Agents are indefatigable
in their efforts, municipal and Parliamentary regulations have been from time to time applied
to the subject, nevertheless the frauds and cruelties inflicted on emigrants are frightful.

An attempt was made some short time since to have an Emigrant's Home as a sort of Model Barrack,
erected in one of the New Docks, so as to form a counterpoise to the frauds of emigration lodging-house
keepers, but local jealousies defeated a plan which would have been equally advantageous to
the town and the emigrants.

The state of poverty and crime in Liverpool, fed as it is by the overflowings of many districts,
is an important subject, which has excited the anxious attention of several enlightened residents,
among others of the late Police Magistrate, Mr. Edward Rushton, who died suddenly without being
able to bring his plans to maturity.

In conclusion we may say of Liverpool, that it is a town which has a great and increasing population,
a wealthy Corporation, a thriving trade, yet less of the materials of a metropolis than many
other towns of less commercial importance.

For further temporary information, a traveller may advantageously consult the Liverpool papers,
of which there is one for every day in the week--that is to say, an Albion, a Times, a Mail,
a Standard, a Mercury, a Journal, a Chronicle--of all shades of politics, of large size, conducted
with great ability, and affording, in addition to the news and politics of the day, a great
deal of general information, in the shape of extracts from popular works and original articles.

If we would learn why the opinions of inhabitants of towns prevail over the opinions of landowners
and agriculturists, we have only to compare the active intelligence of the two as exhibited
by such journals as are to be found in Liverpool, Manchester, and Birmingham with those supported
by the rural community.  A single sect expends more on the support of the press than all the
farmers and farmers' friends united, who are more numerous, more wealthy, not wanting in intelligence
in their own pursuits, but quite without cohesion or combination.

* * * * *

LIVERPOOL TO MANCHESTER.--There are two ways from Liverpool to Manchester, one by the Lancashire
and Yorkshire Railway, through Bolton, which has a station behind the Exchange, and one by
the old route, through Newton.  The line by the new one has Bolton upon its course, and renders
the Aintree Racecourse half as near Manchester as Liverpool.

For choice take a Tuesday or Saturday, and travel up by the early Cotton Brokers' Express to
Manchester, so as to see one more phase of the English commercial character.  The Brokers are
a jovial set and hospitable, as keen as Yankees and as industrious.  There is a marked difference
between them and the Spinners, but they are of no particular country.  Liverpool, like Manchester,
although not to the same degree, is colonised by strangers.  Both Irishmen and Scotchmen are
to be found among the most respectable and successful, and a considerable number of Americans
are settled there as merchants and shipping agents; indeed it is half American in its character.

In this year of 1851, to describe the Liverpool and Manchester Railway would be absurd; acres
of print, in all civilized languages, and yards of picture- illustration, have been devoted
to it.  At Newton Station you see below you a race-course of great antiquity, and what was
once a huge hotel, built to supply a room large enough for the Mother Partingtons of Lancashire
to meet and prepare their mops for sweeping back the Atlantic tide of public opinion. There
they met, and dined and drank and shouted, and unanimously agreed that it was foolish legislation
which transferred the right of representation from the village of Newton to the great city
of Manchester; after which they went home, and wisely submitted to the summons which found
its speaking-trumpets at Manchester.  Fortunately for this country, a minority knows how to
submit to a majority, and the Conservative Hall, by a sort of accidental satire on its original
uses, has been turned into a printing office.

A little farther on is Chat-Moss, a quaking bog, which the opponents of the first railway proved,
to the satisfaction of many intelligent persons, to be an impassable obstacle to the construction
of any solid road.  We fly across it now reading or writing, scarcely taking the trouble to
look out of the window.  But if we do, we may see reclamation and cultivation, in the shape
of root-crops and plantations, extending over the wet waste.

William Roscoe was one of the first to attempt to reclaim this Moss; and it is worthy of note,
that it was among the literary and scientific friends of Roscoe that George Stephenson's idea
of a railroad from Liverpool to Manchester, through Chat-Moss, found its warmest supporters,
at a time when support was much needed; for the shares were hawked, and even distributed among
friends who were guaranteed against loss, in order to make up a fitting parliamentary subscription
to what has proved one of the most successful speculations in public works, of this century.

MANCHESTER.

As we roll into Manchester, and mark by what successive invasions the city has been half-surrounded
by railways, it is amusing to remember the fears which landowners expressed in 1829, and really
felt, lest the new flaming and smoking carriage-apparatus should damage the value of property
which has been more than doubled in value by the new invention.

Manchester is the greatest manufactory in the world.  The cradle and metropolis of a trade
which employs a million and a half of souls, beside the sailors, the merchants, the planters
and the slaves, who grow or carry or buy the raw material, it is the second city in the empire,
and perhaps, considered in relation to the commercial influence of Great Britain, scarcely
second.  Blot out the capital, the credit, the living enterprise, the manufacturing power of
Manchester, and we have lost a century of commercial progress.  Manchester is essentially a
place of work and action, carried on by men recruited from every district where a mental grenadier
of the Manchester standard is to be found.  Suffolk and Devonshire, Norfolk and Cornwall send
their quota, as well as the neighbouring manufacturing schools of Yorkshire, Cheshire, and
Lancashire.  Scotchmen in great numbers, and some Irishmen, chiefly from the north, are also
at home there.  We are speaking now not of operatives, but of those who rise to be manufacturers
or merchants.  The Americans are rather constant visitors than permanent residents; but the
Germans are sufficiently numerous to be able to form a society of their own, the most agreeable
in Manchester; and the commerce of Greece is represented by a great number of houses, which
are increasing in number and importance.

Then Manchester, although only an inland canal port, trades largely and directly, through Liverpool
chiefly, to the most parts of the world, consuming one-tenth of the whole imports of that town.
The correspondence of a first-class house for one morning would alone be a lesson in geography.

Then again, the ceaseless enterprise and enormous powers of manufacture are supported by a
constantly-improving mechanical ingenuity, which seems to those unaccustomed to such works
nothing less than miraculous: as, for instance, some of the inventions of Mr. Whitworth and
of Mr. Roberts.

But all this is hidden from the eye of a stranger; and Manchester is a dark and dingy ledger,
closely clasped, unless he comes prepared to open a good account, or armed with letters of
introduction of a more than ordinarily pressing nature.  The gentleman who was all smiles while
accepting your civilities, and energetically amusing himself on a tour of pleasure, has scarcely
time to look up from his desk to greet you when enthroned in his counting-house.  The fact
is, that these Manchester men rise early, work hard, dine at one o'clock, work again, and go
home, some distance out of town, to work or to sleep,--so they have no time for unprofitable
hospitality or civility.

We do not say this by way of idle reproach to the people of Manchester, who follow their vocation,
and do work of which we as Englishmen have reason to be proud, but partly by way of warning
to travellers who, armed with the sort of letters that have proved passports to everything
best worth seeing throughout the rest of Europe, may expect to pass an agreeable day or two
in the cotton metropolis; and partly by way of hint to politicians who, very fond of inveighing
against the cold shade of aristocracy, would find something worth imitating in the almost universal
courtesy of modern nobility, which is quite consistent with the extremest liberality of abstract
opinions.

Dr. Dalton, the celebrated natural philosopher, for many years a resident in Manchester, has
proved that Manchester is not so damp and rainy a place as is generally imagined; that the
mean annual fall of rain is less than that of Lancaster, Kendal, and Dumfries.  Nevertheless,
it is better to expect rain, for although the day at Liverpool, Halifax, or Sheffield may have
been brilliantly fine, the probability is that you will find the train, as it approaches the
city, gradually slipping into a heavy shower or a Scotch mist.

The walk from any of the stations is very disheartening; tall warehouses, dingy brick houses,
a ceaseless roar of carts and waggons in the main streets, and a population of which all the
better dressed march at double quick time, with care-brent brows, and if pausing, only to exchange
gruff monosyllables and short words.

At one o'clock the factory hands are dismissed, and the masters proceed to dinner on horseback
and in all sorts of vehicles at a thundering pace.  The working-class population will be found
less unhealthy and better looking than would be expected.  The costume of the women, a cap
and a short sleeved jacket fitting the waist, called a Lancashire bedgown, is decidedly picturesque.
For a quarter of an hour some streets are almost impassable, and the movement gives the idea
of a population deserting a city.  An hour's silence follows, after which the tide flows again:
the footpaths are filled with the "hands;" and the "heads," with very red faces, furiously
drive their hundred guinea nags back to business.  Now this is one of the sights of Manchester.

Again, Tuesday is the business day at the Exchange, in St. Ann's Square.  The room is one of
the finest in the kingdom; the faces and the scene generally afford much curious matter for
the study of the artist and physiognomist. Compare it with the groups of well dressed dawdlers
at Leamington, Cheltenham, Bath, with the very different style of acute intellect displayed
at a meeting of the Institute of Civil Engineers, or with the merchants of Liverpool, part
of whom also attend Manchester.

The personal appearance of the Manchester manufacturers and their customers, as seen on 'Change,
fully justifies the old saw, "Liverpool gentlemen, Manchester men, Rochdale fellows (fellies),
and Wigan chaps."

In Liverpool all are equal,--merchant deals with merchant; in Manchester the millowner is an
autocrat, restrained by customs of the trade and occasional strikes, and he carries his rough
ways into private life.

But facts show that, with all its plate and varnish, Liverpool is as inferior to Manchester
in an intellectual, as it is superior in an external point of view.

In politics Manchester leads, and Liverpool and Lancashire unwillingly follow,--in the education
of the operative and middle classes,--in literary, scientific, and musical associations,--in
sanitary measures,--in the formation of public parks and pleasure grounds, Manchester displays
an incontestable superiority; being more rapid, more energetic, and more liberal than her more
fashionable neighbours.

A list of a few of the institutions and public establishments will show this.

The Royal Institution in Mosley Street occupies a large building, established for the encouragement
of the Fine Arts by exhibitions of paintings and sculptures, and the delivery of lectures.

The Philosophical Society was established in 1781, and has numbered among its members Dr. Dalton,
Dr. Henry, and Dr. Percival, and has had its Transactions translated into French and German.

The Natural History Society has filled a museum in Peter Street with objects of natural history,
and opens it during holiday seasons to the public at a nominal charge, when thousands of visitors,
chiefly operatives, attend.

The Mechanics' Institution, founded in 1824, after surviving many difficulties, has become
one of the most flourishing and useful institutions of the kind in the kingdom.  Its chief
activity is displayed in the education of the operative members in the class-rooms.  The library
is large, well selected, and in constant requisition.  In one department the School of Design
is carried on, and could not be conducted in a more appropriate building.

This School of Design, supported by the Government for the purpose of promoting design as applied
to the staple manufactures, and diffusing a general feeling for art amongst the manufacturing
community, was formerly accommodated within the walls of the Royal Institution as a tenant,
paying a rent, strangely enough, for the use of a building which had ostensibly been erected
for promoting art and science!

It was not until 1836, that, on the recommendation of a Committee of the House of Commons,
active steps were taken to establish in England that class of artistic instruction applied
to manufactures which had been cultivated in France ever since the time that the great Colbert
was the minister of Louis XIV.

At Manchester, some of the leading men connected with the calico-printing trade and looms of
art, established a School of Design within the Royal Institution, where two rooms were lent
rent-free; but, as soon as Government apportioned a part of a special grant to the Manchester
School, the Committee, who were also as nearly as possible the Council of the Royal Institution,
with that appetite for public money which seems incident to men of all nations, all classes,
and all politics, voted 100 out of the 250 pounds per annum for rent.  This school did nothing
of a practical nature, and consequently did not progress in public estimation.  The master
was a clever artist, but not up, perhaps he would have said not down, to his work. A School
of Design at Manchester is meant, not to breed artists in high art, but to have art applied
to the trades of the city.  The master was changed, and, at the request of the local committee,
the Council of the School of Design at Somerset House sent down, in 1845, Mr. George Wallis,
who had shown his qualifications as an assistant at Somerset House and as master of the Spitalfields
school.  At that time the Manchester school had been in existence five years, and had done
nothing toward its original object.  In two years from the time of Mr. Wallis taking the charge,
the funds of the school were flourishing; the interest taken in it by the public was great,
and nearly half the Institution was occupied by the pupils, while the applications for admission
were more numerous than could be accommodated. Under this management the public, who care little
for abstract art, were taught the close connexion between the instruction of the School of
Design and their private pursuits.

This is what is wanted in all our towns.  It is not enough to teach boys and girls,--the manufacturers
and purchasers need to be taught by the eye, if not by the hand.

According to part of Mr. Wallis's plan, an exhibition was held of the drawings executed by
the pupils for the annual prizes, which had a great influence in laying the foundation for
the efforts made by Manchester at the Great Exhibition of Industry in Hyde Park.

While matters were proceeding so satisfactorily, the Somerset House authorities (who have since
been tried and condemned by a Committee of the House of Commons), proceeded to earn their salaries
by giving instructions which could not be carried out without destroying all the good that
had been done.  The Manchester Committee and Mr. Wallis protested against this red tapish interference.
It was persisted in; Mr. Wallis {172} resigned, to the great regret of his pupils and manufacturing
friends in the managing council.

The result was that the undertaking dwindled away rapidly to less than its original insignificance,--the
students fell off, and a deficit of debt replaced the previously flourishing funds.  Out of
evil comes good.  The case of Manchester enabled Mr. Milner Gibson, M.P. for Manchester, to
get his Committee and overhaul the Schools of Design throughout the kingdom.

Certain changes were effected.  The school, no longer able to pay the high rent required by
the Royal Institution, was removed to its present site in Brown Street, placed under the management
of Mr. Hammersley, who had previously been a successful teacher at Nottingham, and freed from
the meddling of incompetent authorities.  And now pupils anxiously crowd to receive instruction,
and annually display practical evidence of the advantages they are enjoying.

The Manchester Mechanics' Institution was one of the pioneers in the movement which led to
the Great Exhibition.  In 1831, was held its first Polytechnic Exhibition for the purpose of
showing the connexion between natural productions, science, and manufactures.  Subsequent Exhibitions
were carried out with great effect as a means of instruction and education, and with such success
as to pay off a heavy debt which had previously cramped the usefulness of the Institution.

There are also several other institutions of the same class, amongst others Salford, Ancoats,
and Miles Platting Auxiliary Mechanics' Institutes.

The Athenaeum constitutes a kind of literary club for the middle classes, who are provided
with a good library and reading-room in a very handsome building.

The Manchester Library contains 10,000 volumes, the Manchester Subscription Library, established
1765, has the most extensive collection of books in the city.

A Concert Hall in Peter Street, exclusively used for the purposes indicated by its name, is
supported by 600 subscribers at five guineas each.

The Chetham Society has been founded for the purpose of publishing ancient MSS. and scarce
works connected with the history of Lancashire.

The Exchange has upwards of two thousand subscribers.

By way of helping the body as well as the mind, in 1846 the inhabitants of Manchester formed
by subscription three public parks, called Queen's Park, Peel's Park, and Philip's Park, in
three different parts of the suburbs.

* * * * *

THE FREE GRAMMAR SCHOOL was founded by Hugh Oldham, Bishop of Exeter, in the early part of
the sixteenth century.  It was originally founded for the purpose of furnishing simple and
elementary instruction to the poor.  This design is sufficiently proved by the language of
the foundation deed, which describes those sought to be benefited as persons who had been long
in ignorance "on account of the poverty of their parents."  The present income of the school
is upwards of 5000 pounds a-year, leaving a considerable income over its expenditure, notwithstanding
that the operations of the school have been extended by a decree of the Court of Chancery.
In the year 1833 the Court authorised the erection of a new building to include a residence
for the master.  There are two schools, called the Higher and Lower.  The instructions given
embrace the Greek and Latin, and the French, German, and other modern languages; English literature,
mathematics, the modern arts and sciences, etc.  A library is attached to the school for the
use of the pupils.  There are twelve exhibitions, of the annual value of 60 pounds each, for
four years, in the gift of the Warden and High Master, who, however, respect the recommendations
of the Examiners.  These gentlemen are three in number, being Masters of Arts and Bachelors
of Law of two years' standing, two of them appointed by the Professor, and one by the High
Master.  They each receive 20 pounds for their services.  In addition to the twelve exhibitions
mentioned above, there are fifteen others connected with the school, the bequest of a merchant
named Hulme.  These are appropriated to under-graduates of Brasenose College, Oxford.  Their
value is to be fixed by the patrons, but cannot exceed the sum of 220 pounds a year.  They
are to be held for four years from the thirteenth term after matriculation.  There are sixteen
scholarships to the same College; and sixteen to St. John's, Cambridge, varying in value from
l8 to 26 pounds, stand in rotation with the pupils of Marlborough and Hereford Schools, and
six scholarships of 24 pounds to Magdalen College, Oxford, Manchester pupils having the preference.
The Examiners have also the power of making awards of books or mathematical instruments, to
the value of 25 pounds, in any cases of great merit.

The High Master's salary is fixed not to exceed 600 pounds, with house-rent and taxes free.
He is also allowed to take twenty boarders.  He has the assistance of an Usher (salary 300
pounds, with house and fifteen boarders); an Assistant (salary 200 pounds, with house and twelve
boarders); an Usher's Assistant (salary 150 pounds, with house and ten boarders).  There are,
in addition, a Master of the Lower School, a Writing, and a Mathematical Master, a teacher
of English literature, and another of foreign languages; all, with the exception of the last,
having houses, and their aggregate salaries amounting to 800 pounds.

Four hundred scholars attended in 1850.

MANCHESTER NEW COLLEGE is an institution belonging to the Unitarian body, on the plan of King's
College, London, and was opened for the reception of students on the 5th October, 1840.  The
curriculum of instruction embraces every department of learning and polite literature.

THE LANCASHIRE INDEPENDENT COLLEGE is one of the affiliated Colleges of the London University,
and was established for the education of candidates for the Christian Ministry amongst Congregational
dissenters.  There are three resident Professors, the principal being the Rev. Dr. Vaughan,
formerly Professor of History in the University of London.

OWEN'S COLLEGE has recently been opened on the testamentary endowment of a Mr. Owen, for affording
an education on the plan of University College, London.

CHETHAM'S HOSPITAL, or, as it is more properly termed, "College," was founded by Charter in
the year 1665, by Humphrey Chetham, a Manchester citizen and tradesman, who had, during his
lifetime, brought up, fed, and educated fourteen boys of Manchester and Salford.  He paid a
heavy fine to Charles I. for persisting in his refusal of a baronetcy, and in 1634 was appointed
Sheriff of his county.  By his will Chetham directed that the number of boys he had previously
provided for should be augmented by the addition of one from Droylsden, two from Crumpsall,
four from Turton, and ten from Bolton; and left the sum of 7000 pounds to be devoted to their
instruction and maintenance, from six to fourteen years of age, and for their apprenticeship
afterwards to some trade.  The funds having since increased, 80 boys are now received, in the
following proportions, from the several places mentioned in the founder's will, viz.:--Manchester,
28; Salford, 12; Droylsden, 6; Crumpsall, 4; Bolton, 20; Turton, 10.  They are clothed, fed,
boarded, lodged, and instructed in reading, writing, grammar, and arithmetic.  The boys are
selected by the Feoffees in annual meeting at Easter, within six days before the Monday in
which week an application must be sent in to the Governor, accompanied by a printed note of
recommendation, signed by the overseers and churchwardens of the place in which the candidate
resides.

THE COLLEGE LIBRARY is situated in the same old building in which accommodation is found for
the College, and is a fine collection of upwards of 25,000 volumes.  The germ of this library
consisted of the books bequeathed by Humphrey Chetham, many of them of great scarcity and value.
The collection contains comparatively few volumes of modern date.  The library is open to the
use of the public without charge or restriction, and a small, but convenient, reading-room
is provided for their accommodation.  Books are not allowed to be removed from the premises,
and every reader is obliged to make an entry of each volume he wishes to obtain.  Notwithstanding
the immense population of Manchester and Salford, this valuable institution is comparatively
little used, the number of readers averaging less than twenty per day.

SWINTON SCHOOL.--In connexion with the Workhouse an Industrial House and School has been erected
at Swinton, five miles from the City, which affords so admirable an example for imitation by
all manufacturing or crowded communities, that we are glad to be able to extract the main facts
concerning it from a graphic description in the first volume of Dickens's Household Words:--

   "Swinton School cost sixty thousand pounds, and is a handsome building in
   the Tudor style of architecture, with a frontage of 450 feet, containing
   more than 100 windows.  Pleasure grounds and play grounds surround it, and
   it resembles more a nobleman's palace than the Home of Pauper Children.
   The inmates consist of 630 children, of whom 305 are orphans, and 124
   deserted by their parents, under charge of a Chaplain, a Head Master, a
   Medical Officer, a Roman Catholic Priest, a Governor, a Matron, six
   Schoolmasters, and four School-mistresses, with a numerous staff of
   officials, Nurses, and Teachers of Trades, receiving salaries and wages
   amounting to 1,800 pounds a-year, besides board.  Some in the institution
   are as young as one year and a half.

   All are educated, and those who are old enough are taught trades and
   domestic employments.  When they leave they are furnished with two suits
   of clothes.  The character of the Institution stands so high, that the
   public are eager for the girls as domestic servants.  If it has not
   already been done, we hope that the cultivation of land on the system of
   market gardens will be added to the trades, as affording a more certain,
   and, in some respects, more generally useful employment.  Educated
   agricultural labourers are rare, much prized, and soon promoted to be
   overseers and bailiffs.

   The education at Swinton is conducted on the modern plan, which prevails
   in the best schools under Government inspection.  The children are taught
   to love and look upon their masters and mistresses as friends, to be
   consulted and applied to as they would to kind parents.

   For instance take this bit, familiar to visitors of Infant Schools, but
   still new to many:--

   The children under six years of age, summoned by the sound of a whistle
   from the play ground, trooped in glad groups to an anteroom, and girls and
   boys intermixed, at a signal from the Master marched into the schoolroom
   singing a tune.

   Then followed such viva voce instruction as too many better endowed
   children do not get for want of competent teachers.  Indeed a better
   education is now given in Workhouses than can be obtained for children
   under twelve years of age at any paid school that we know of.  For
   instance:--

   "What day is this?"
   "Monday."
   "What sort of a day is it?"
   "Very fine."
   "Why is it fine?"
   "Because the sun shines, and it does not rain."
   "Is rain a bad thing, then?"
   "No."
   "What is it useful for?"
   "To make the flowers and the fruit grow."
   "Who sends rain and sunshine?"
   "God."
   "What ought we to do in return for his goodness?"
   "Praise him."
   "Let us praise him, then," added the Master.

   And the children altogether repeated, and then sang, a part of the 149th
   psalm."

Now all this is very fine, and a wonderful improvement on the old dog-eared Redinmadeasy, but
better follows.  After a time the children grew tired and sleepy, one fell asleep.  Did the
Master slap them all round and pull the ears of the poor little fat somnus?  No.  He marched
them all out singing and beating time to play for a quarter of an hour.

We commend Swinton to the consideration of the credulous disciples of the firebrand school
of economists, who believe that Manchester men devour little children daily, without stint
or mercy for their poor little bodies or souls.

Manchester obtained a municipal corporation under the provisions of the general act for that
purpose, passed in the reign of his late Majesty William IV.  Gas works, established in 1817,
are the property of the town, and produce a surplus income amounting to between three and four
thousand pounds a year, which are devoted to public improvements.  The corporation have recently
obtained power to establish water works, and to purchase up the plant of an existing company.

The guardians of the workhouses of Manchester have a most difficult task to perform, especially
in times of commercial depression, as thousands are thrown upon their hands at once.  Among
the most troublesome customers are the Irish, who flock to Manchester through Liverpool in
search of work, and form a population herding together, very ignorant, very poor, and very
uncleanly.

MANCHESTER MANUFACTURES.

It is quite impossible to give the same sort of sketch of the manufactures of this city as
we gave of Birmingham, because they are on so much larger and more complicated a scale.  One
may understand how a gun-barrel or a steel-pen is made at one inspection; but in a visit to
a textile mill, a sight of whizzing machinery, under the charge of some hundred men, women,
boys, and girls, only produces an indefinable feeling of confusion to a person who has not
previously made himself acquainted with the elements of the subject.  To attempt to explain
how a piece of calico is made without the aid of woodcuts, would be very unsatisfactory.  Premising,
then, that the cotton in various forms is the staple manufacture of Manchester, and that silk,
mixed fabrics of cotton and silk, cotton and wool, etc., are also made extensively, we advise
the traveller to prepare himself by reading the work of Dr. Ure or the articles on Textiles
in the Penny Cyclopaedia.

A visit to the workshops of the celebrated machinists Messrs. Sharpe, Roberts, & Co. would
probably afford a view of some parts of the most improved textile machinery in a state of rest,
as well as a very excellent idea of the rapid progress of mechanical arts.  Improvements in
manufacturing machines are so constant and rapid, that it is almost a proverb--"that before
a foreigner can get the most improved machinery which he has purchased in England home and
at work, something better will be invented."

A Manchester manufacturer, on the approach of a busy season, will sometimes stop his factories
to put in new machines, at a cost of twenty thousand pounds.

Of equal interest with Messrs. Sharpe, Roberts, & Co., are the works of Messrs. Whitworth,
the manufacturers of exquisite tools, more powerful than any elephant, more delicately-fitted
than any watch for executing the metalwork of steam-engines, of philosophical instruments,
and everything requiring either great power or mathematical nicety.  Some of these tools for
planing, boring, rivetting, welding, cutting iron and other metals, are to be found in great
iron manufactories.  Indeed, Mr. Roberts and Mr. Whitworth are of a class of men who have proved
that the execution of almost all imitations of natural mechanics are merely a question of comparative
expense.  If you choose to pay for it, you may have the moving fingers of a man, or the prehensile
trunk of an elephant, perfectly executed.

From the manufacture of machines, the next step lies naturally to some branch of cotton manufactures.

COTTON.--The rise of this manufacture has been wonderfully rapid.  In the time of Henry VIII.,
the spinning wheel came into use in England, superseding the spindle and distaff, which may
still be seen in the south of France and Italy, and in India, where no other tools are used.
In the same reign Manchester became distinguished for its manufactures.

In the seventeenth century, Humphrey Chetham, whose name has already been mentioned as the
founder of a splendid charity, was among the eminent tradesmen.

The barbarities of the Duke of Alva on the Protestants of the Netherlands, and the revocation
of the edict of Nantes, by which the persecutions of the French Protestants was renewed, supplied
all our manufacturing districts with skilful Artisans and mechanics in silk and woollen.

In 1786, the importation of raw cotton only amounted to nineteen million pounds weight, obtained
from the West Indies, the French, Spanish, and Dutch colonies, and from Turkey and Smyrna.
Two years previously an American ship which imported eight bags was seized, on the ground that
so much cotton could not be the produce of the United States!

So early as 1738, one Charles Wyatt, of Birmingham, took out a patent for spinning yarn by
machinery, which he tried at Northampton, but reaped no profits from the invention, which was
discontinued and forgotten.  In 1767, James Hargreaves, an illiterate weaver residing near
Church, in Lancashire, who seven years previously had invented a carding machine, much like
that in use at the present day, invented the spinning jenny,--by which eighty spindles were
set to work instead of the one of the spinning wheel.  Hargreaves derived no benefit from his
invention; twice a mob of spinners on the old principle rose and destroyed all the machinery
made on his plan, and chased him away.  In 1769, Richard Arkwright took out his first patent
(having Mr. Need of Nottingham and Mr. Strutt of Derby as partners,) for spinning with rollers.

Arkwright was born in the humblest class of life at Preston in Lancashire.  At "Proud Preston"
he first followed the business of a barber, then became a dealer in hair, travelling the country
to collect it, and selling it prepared to the wigmakers.  Having accumulated a little money,
he set about endeavouring to invent perpetual motion, and, in the search, invented, or sufficiently
adapted and improved, a cotton spinning apparatus to induce two practical men like the Messrs.
Need and Strutt to join him.  His claim to original invention has been disputed.  That he was
not the first inventor is clear, and it is equally clear that he must have been a man of very
considerable and original mechanical genius.

With Arkwright's patent, the rise of the cotton trade began.

In 1786, Mr. Samuel Crompton's invention came into use, called the mule jenny, because partaking
of the movements of both Hargreaves' and Arkwright's inventions, by which, for the first time,
yarn fine enough for muslins could be spun.  Crompton did not, probably could not, afford to
take out a patent, but worked his mule jenny with his own hands in an attic at Bolton, where
he carried on a small spinning and weaving business.  Already, in 1812, there were between
four and five million spindles on this principle, but the inventor continued poor and almost
unknown.  Mr. Kennedy (author of a brief memoir of Crompton), and Mr. Lee, raised 500 pounds
for him by subscription, and he afterwards received a grant of 8000 pounds from Parliament,
which his sons lost in business.  Mr. Kennedy again exerted himself and raised an annuity of
63 pounds, which the unfortunate inventor only lived two years to enjoy.

The spinning machines threatened to out-travel the weaving powers of the country, when, in
1785, Dr. Cartwright, a clergyman of Kent, with no previous knowledge of weaving, after an
expenditure of 40,000 pounds, invented the power-loom, for which he afterwards received a grant
of 10,000 pounds from Parliament.  To supply our cotton manufactures, there were imported in
1849 1,900,000 bales of 330lbs. each.  Of this quantity, 1,400,000 bales came from the United
States.

The Manchester manufacturers have lately raised a small fund by subscription, and sent out
Mr. Mackay, a barrister, author of The Western World, to examine and report on the prospects
of obtaining cotton from India; and the son of the late Mr. John Fielden, a great manufacturer,
has embarked a considerable sum at Natal in the cultivation of cotton.  The dependence on the
United States for such a staple has begun to render our Manchester men uncomfortable.  They
have not, however, displayed the spirit and energy that might have been expected either from
their usual political vigour or from the tone of their advice to the farmers in distress.

The successive improvements in weaving by machinery we shall not attempt to trace.  To use
the phrase of a Nottingham mechanic, "there are machines now that will weave anything, from
a piece of sacking to a spider's web."  But fine muslins and fancy goods are chiefly woven by hand.

The power-loom has recently been adapted, under Bright's patent, to weaving carpets, which
are afterwards printed.

With respect to spinning; fine yarns which cost twenty guineas a pound have been reduced to
four shillings by improved machinery, and in the Great Exhibition of Industry Messrs. Houldsworth
exhibited as a curiosity, a pound of cotton spun 2,000 miles in length.

Arkwright, among the early improvers, was the only one who realized a large fortune, which
his patience, his energy, his skill, his judgment, his perseverance well deserved, whether
he was an original inventor or not.

The large supplies of cheap coals by canal soon made Lancashire the principal seat of the manufacture.

Among the many who realized great wealth by the new manufacture, was the first Sir Robert Peel,
who began life near Bolton as a labouring man, by frugality accumulated enough money to commence
first with a donkey a small coal trade, and then to enter on a cotton mill, which eventually
placed him in a position to become a Member of Parliament and a baronet, and to give his son
that starting place in education and society of which he availed himself so wisely and so patriotically,
to his own honour and the permanent benefit of his country.

There are several mills and factories in Manchester in which the most perfect productions of
mechanical skill may be seen in operation; but it is a trade which will be seen under much
more favourable circumstances in some of those valleys near Manchester, where the masters of
the mill provide the cottages of their "hands," or where the cottages are held in freehold
by the more frugal workmen themselves, with little gardens attached, in pure air in open situations.

There are many cotton lords, and the number is increasing, who take the warmest interest in
the condition of the people in their employ, and who do all they can to promote their health,
their education, and their amusements. A visit to one of these establishments, will convince
those who have taken their ideas of a manufacturing population from the rabid novelettes and
yet more rabid railings of the Ferrand school, that there is nothing in the factory system
itself, properly conducted, opposed to the permanent welfare of the working classes.  On the
contrary, in average times, the wages are sufficient to enable the operatives to live in great
comfort, and to lay by more than in other trades; while between the comfort of their position
and that of the agricultural labourer there is no comparison, so infinitely are the advantages
on the side of the factory hand.  There have also been a series of legislative and other changes
during the last twenty years, all tending to raise the condition of this class.  At the same
time, it is impossible not to observe that, quite irrespective of political opinions, there
is a wide gulf between the great mass of the employers and the employed.  There is dislike--there
is undefined distrust.  Those who doubt this will do well to investigate working-class opinions
for themselves, not at election time, and in such a familiar manner as to get at the truth
without compliments.  Probably in times of prosperity this feeling is not increasing--we are
strongly inclined to think it is diminishing; but it is a question not to be neglected.  Manchester
men, of the class who run at the aristocracy, the army, and the navy just as a bull runs at
a red rag, will perhaps be very angry at our saying this; but we speak as we have found mobs
at fires, and chatty fustian jackets in third class trains on the Lancashire and Yorkshire
line; and, although a friend protests against the opinion, we still think that the ordinary
Manchester millhand looks on his employer with about the same feelings that Mr. John Bright
regards a colonel in the guards. We hope we may live to see them all more amiable, and better
friends.

Manchester during the last seventy years, has been peopled more rapidly than the "Black Country"
which we have described, with a crowd of immigrants of the most ignorant class, from the agricultural
counties of England, from Ireland, and from Scotland.  These people have been crowded together
under very demoralising circumstances.

But we do not dwell or enter further into this important part of the condition of Manchester,
because, unlike Birmingham, the Corn Law discussions have, to the enormous advantage of the
city, drawn hundreds of jealous eyes upon the domestic life of the poor; and because men of
all parties, Church and Dissent, Radicals and Conservatives, are trying hard and as cordially
as their mutual prejudices will allow them, to work out a plan of education for raising the
moral condition of a class, who, if neglected in their dirt and ignorance, will become, in
the strongest sense of the French term, Dangereuse!

But to return to the Manchester of to-day; it has become rather the mercantile than the manufacturing
centre of the cotton manufacture.  There are firms in Manchester which hold an interest in
woollen, silk, and linen manufactures in all parts of the kingdom and even of the continent.

From a pamphlet published last year by the Rev. Mr. Baker, it appears that there are five hundred
and fifty cotton manufactories of one kind or other in the cotton district of Lancashire and
Cheshire.  Of these, in Ashton-under- Lyne, Dukinfield, and Mosley, there are fifty-three mills,
Blackburn fifty- seven, Bolton forty-two, Burnley twenty-five spinning manufactories, at Heywood
twenty-eight mills, Oldham one hundred and fifty-eight, Preston thirty-eight, Staley Bridge
twenty, Stockport forty-seven mills, Warrington only four, Manchester seventy-eight.

The following is a brief outline of the stages of cotton manufacture which may be useful to
those who consider the question for the first time.

When cotton has reached Manchester from the United States, which supplies 75 per cent. of the
raw material; from Egypt, which supplies a good article in limited quantity; from India, which
sends us an inferior, uncertain, but increasing, quantity, but which with railroads will send
us an improved increasing quantity; or from any of the other miscellaneous countries which
contribute a trifling quota--it is stowed in warehouses, arranged according to the countries
from which it has come.  It is then "passed through the willow, the scuthing machine, and the
spreading machine, in order to be opened, cleaned, and evenly spread.  By the carding engine
the fibres are combed out, and laid parallel to each other, and the fleece is compressed into
sliver. The sliver is repeatedly drawn and doubled in the drawing frame, more perfectly to
strengthen the fibres and to equalize the grist.  The roving frame, by rollers and spindles,
produces a coarse loose thread, which the mule or throstle spins into yarn.  To make the warp,
the twist is transferred from cops to bobbins by the winding machine, and from the bobbins
at the warping machine to a cylindrical beam.  This being taken to the dressing machine, the
warp is sized, dressed, and wound upon the weaving beam.  The weaving beam is then placed in
the power loom, by which machine, the shuttle being provided with cops with weft, the cloth
is woven."

Sometimes the yarn only is exported, in other cases the cloth is bleached, or dyed, or printed,
all of which operations can be carried on in Manchester or the surrounding auxiliary towns.

The best mode of obtaining a general idea of the trade carried on in Manchester will be to
visit two or three of the leading warehouses in which buyers from all parts of the world supply
their respective wants.  For instance, Messrs. J. N. Phillips and Co., of Church Street; Messrs.
Bannermans and Sons, York Street; Messrs. J. and J. Watts and Co., of Spring Gardens; and Messrs.
Wood and Westhead, of Piccadilly.  Next, to go over one of the leading Cotton Mills, say Briley's
or Houldsworth's; then Messrs. Lockett's establishment for engraving the plates used in calico-printing,
and Messrs. Thomas Hoyle and Son's print works.  This work completed, the traveller will have
some idea of Manchester, not without.

* * * * *

SILK.--The silk trade of Manchester and of Macclesfield, which for that purpose is a suburb
of Manchester, arose in the restrictions imposed upon Spitalfields, at the request of the weavers,
by successive acts of Parliament, for the purpose of regulating employment in that district.
In 1830 there were not 100 Jacquard looms in Manchester and its neighbourhood, whilst at the
present time there are probably 12,000 employed either on silk or some branch of figure weaving.
The most convenient silk manufactory for the visit of the stranger is that of Messrs. James
Houldsworth of Portland Street, near the Royal Infirmary.  This firm was established by a German
gentleman, the late Mr. Louis Schwabe, an intelligent German, who introduced the higher class
of silk manufacture with such success as to enable him to compete with even the very first
class of Lyons silks for furniture damasks.

In addition to the extensive application of the Jacquard loom, Mr. Schwabe introduced, and
Mr. Henry Houldsworth improved and perfected, the embroidering machines invented by Mr. Heilmann
of Mulhausen.  The improvements are so great that the original inventor cannot compete with
them.  Rows of needles elaborate the most tasteful designs with a degree of accuracy to which
hand labour cannot approach.

Messrs. Winkworth and Proctor are also producers of high class silks for ladies' dresses and
gentlemen's waistcoats.

Manchester is particularly celebrated for plain silk goods of a superior quality at a moderate
price.  There are also manufactories of small wares, which include parasols and umbrellas.
A parasol begins at 4.5d. wholesale.

In Manchester the tastes and costumes of every country are consulted and suited.  The brown
cloak of the Spaniard, the poncho of the Chilean, the bright red or yellow robe of the Chinese,
the green turban of the pilgrim from Mecca, the black blanket of the Caffre, and the red blanket
of the American Indian may all be found in bales in one Manchester warehouse.

In passing through the streets, the sign "Fents" is to be seen on shops in cellars.  These
are the odd pieces, of a yard or two in length, cut off the goods in the manufactories to make
up a certain even quantity; and considerable trade is driven in them.  Selections are sometimes
bought up as small ventures by sea captains and emigrants.

Paper-making is carried on extensively in the neighbourhood of Manchester from cotton waste.
This was formerly thrown away; scavengers were even paid to cart it away.  After a time, as
its value became quietly known among paper-makers, parties were found willing to take on themselves
the expense of removing it.  By degrees the waste became a regular article of sale; and now,
wherever possible, a paper-mill in this part of the country is placed near, or worked in conjunction
with, a cotton-mill.  The introduction of cotton waste has materially reduced the price of
paper.  No doubt, when the excise is abolished, many other articles will be employed for the
same purpose.

To describe the railroads, which are every hour departing for every point of the compass, would
take up too much space.  But the railway stations, several of which have been united by works
as costly, and almost as extensive, as the Pyramids of Egypt, are not among the least interesting
sights.  At these stations barrels of flour will be found, literally filling acres of warehouse
room, and cucumbers arrive in season by the ton.

* * * * *

THE CANALS must be mentioned, and remind us that at Worsley, near Manchester, the Duke of Bridgwater,
"the Father of Inland Navigation," aided by the genius of Brindley (another of the great men,
who, like Arkwright and Stephenson, rose from the ranks of labour, and directly contributed
to the rise of this city) commenced the first navigable canal constructed for commercial purposes
in Great Britain.

At the present day the construction of a canal is a very commonplace affair, but it is impossible
to doubt the high qualities of the mind of the Duke of Bridgwater, when we consider the education
and prejudices of a man of his rank at that period, and observe the boldness with which he
accepted, the tenacity with which he adhered to, the energy and self-sacrifice with which he
prosecuted the plans of an obscure man like Brindley.

A disappointment in love is said to have first driven the Duke into retirement, and rendered
him shy and eccentric, with an especial objection to the society of ladies, although he had
once been a gay, if not dissipated, young gentleman, fond of the turf.  He rode a race at Trentham
Hall, the seat of his brother-in-law, the Marquis of Stafford.

When he retired from the pleasures of the fashionable world, his attention was directed to
a rich bed of coal on his estate at Worsley, the value of which was almost nominal in consequence
of the expense of carriage.  He determined to have a canal, and, if possible, a perfect canal,
and who to carry out this object he selected Brindley, who had been born in the station of
an agricultural labourer, and was entirely self-educated.  To the last he conducted those engineering
calculations, which are usually worked out on paper and by rule, by a sort of mental arithmetic.
Brindley must have been about forty years of age when he joined the Duke.  He died at fifty-six,
having laid the foundation of that admirable system of internal commerce which is better described
in Baron Charles Dupin's Force Commerciale de la Grande Bretagne than in any English work.

One often-told anecdote well illustrates the characters of the nobleman and his engineer, if
we remember that no such works had ever been erected in England at that time.  "When Brindley
proposed to carry the canal over the Mersey and Irwell Navigation, by an aqueduct 39 feet above
the surface of the water, he desired, for the satisfaction of his employer, to have another
engineer consulted.  That individual, on being taken to the place where the intended aqueduct
was to be constructed, said, that 'he had often heard of castles in the air, but never was
shown before where any of them were to be erected.'"  But the Duke had faith in Brindley, persevered
and triumphed, although, before the completion of all his undertakings, he was more than once
reduced to great pecuniary difficulties.

The canal property of the Duke of Bridgwater, with the Lancashire estates, are now vested in
the Earl of Ellesmere, a nobleman who well knows, and conscientiously works out, the axiom,
"that property has its duties as well as its rights."  A visit to Worsley will prove what an
enlightened and benevolent landowner can do for a population of colliers and bargemen.

The educational and other arrangements of a far-sighted character show that there are advantages
in even such large accumulations of property as have fallen to the share of the present representative
of the Duke of Bridgwater.

Those who desire to pursue closely the state of the operative population in Manchester, will
find ample materials in the annual reports of factory inspectors, and school inspectors, under
the Committee of the Council of Education, and of the municipal officers of health.

* * * * *

FIRES.--Dreadful fires occur occasionally in Manchester.  If such a catastrophe should take
place during the stay of a visitor, he should immediately pull on an overcoat, even although
it be midnight, and join in the crowd.  An excellent police of 300 officers and men renders
the streets quite safe at all hours; and a fire of an old cotton factory, where the floors
are saturated with oil and grease, is indeed a fearfully imposing sight.  It also affords an
opportunity of some familiar conversation with the factory hands.

* * * * *

In taking leave of Manchester, which is indeed the great heart of our manufacturing system,
we may truly say that it is a city to be visited with the deepest interest, and quitted without
the slightest regret.  On our political railroad we are under deepest obligations to the Manchester
stokers; but Heaven forbid that we should be compelled to make them our sole engineers.

THE ROAD TO YORKSHIRE.

MIDDLETON.--And now, before taking a glance at the woollens and hardware of Yorkshire, we suggest,
by way of change from the perpetual hum of busy multitudes and the whizzing and roaring of
machinery, that the traveller take a holiday, and spend it in wandering over an agricultural
oasis encircled by hills, and so far uninvaded by the stalks of steam-engines, where the air
is comparatively pure and the grass green, although forest trees do not flourish.

The visit requires no distant journey.  It is a bare six miles from the heart of Manchester
to Middleton.  Nine times a-day omnibuses ply there.  These original, if not primitive vehicles,
are constructed to carry forty-five passengers, and on crowded market-days may sometimes be
seen loaded with seventy specimens of a note-worthy class.

Middleton, lately a dirty straggling town, of 15,000 inhabitants, a number at which it has
remained stationary for ten years, built without plan, without drains, without pavement, without
arrangements for common decency, stands on the borders, and was the manorial village, of the
Middleton and Thornham estates, which had been in the family of the late Lord Suffield for
many hundred years.  In the village, land was grudgingly leased for building, and no steam-engine
manufactories were permitted.  The agricultural portion of some 2500 acres of good land for
pasturage and root crops, celebrated for its fine supplies of water and for its (unused) water-power,
was divided into little farms of from twenty to seventy acres, very few exceeding fifty acres,
inhabited by a race of Farmer-Weavers, who, from generation to generation, farmed badly and
wove cleanly in the pure atmosphere of Middleton.  They were, most of them, bound to keep a
hound at walk for the Lord of the Manor.

Now the old Lords of the Manor and owners of the estate of Middleton (the Harbords, afterwards
Barons Suffield), were proud men and wealthy, who despised manufactures and resisted any encroachment
of trade on the green bounds within which their old Manor House had stood for ages.  So when
the inventions of Crompton, Hargreaves, Arkwright, and Cartwright began to coin gold like any
philosopher's stone, for well-managing cotton manufacturers, speculators cast their eyes upon
the pleasant waters of Middleton and Thornham, proposing to erect machinery and spin the yarn
or thread, and otherwise to use the abundant water-power.  But the Lords of Middleton would
have none of such profits, (and if they could afford to reject them, we will not say that up
to a certain point they were not wise), and so they gave short answers to the applicants, who
went away and found, half-a-mile off, on the borders of Yorkshire, similar conveniences and
more accessible ground- landlords in the Byrons, Lords of the Manor of Rochdale.  And when,
some time afterwards, a like application met with a like answer, other manufacturers went away
to another corner, and built Oldham.

So the Middleton farms continued very pretty picturesque farms; Middleton village grew into
a miserable town, and was passed over in 1830, when every population was putting forth its
claims to a share in making the laws of the United Kingdom; while Oldham, with 30,000 inhabitants,
was allotted two members, (an honour which cost the life of one of them, our best describer
of English rural scenery, in racy Saxon English, William Cobbett); Rochdale, with 24,000, obtained
one, and eventually made itself loudly heard in the House, in the person of John Bright, a
gentleman of pluck not without eloquence, who has done a good deal, considering the disadvantages
he has laboured under, in not having been brought to his level in a public school, and in having
been brought up in the atmosphere of adulation, to which the wealthy and clever of a small
sect are as much exposed as the scions of a "proud aristocracy."

A few years ago, the late lord, who had occasionally lived on the estate, died.  His successor
pulled down the Manor House, became an absentee, always in want of ready money, and introduced
the Irish system into the management of his estate.  That is to say, good farming became a
sure mode of inviting an increase of rent--for indispensable repairs no ready money was forthcoming,
so tenants who had an indisputable claim to such allowances, received a reduction of rent instead;
they generally accepted the reduction, and did no more of the repairs than would just make
shift.  The land in the town suitable for building was let at chief rents to the highest bidder,
with no consideration for the mutual convenience of neighbours, or the welfare of future residents.

Thus mismanaged and dilapidated, the estates were brought into the market, and purchased for
Messrs. Peto & Betts, by their land agent, Mr. Francis Fuller, for less than 200,000 pounds;
and the lands of the aristocracy of blood passed into the possession of the aristocracy of
trade.  Here was a subject for a doleful ballad from "A Young Englander," commencing--

   "Ye tenants old of Middleton ye cannot need but sigh,
   Departed are the traces of your own nobility,
   The Locomotivocracy have gone and done the trick,
   And England's aristocracy's obliged to cut its stick."

A visit to Middleton, however, will show that on this occasion the tenantry have no reason
either to sigh or weep, and the visit is worth making, independently of the pleasantness of
a change from town to country, because it affords an opportunity of seeing what can be done
with a neglected domain when it passes into the hands of men of large capital, liberal views,
and a thorough determination that whatever they take in hand shall be done in the best possible
manner.

Messrs. Peto & Betts are managing this estate on the same principles that they have conducted
the undertaking by which, in a very few years, they have acquired a large fortune and an influential
position.  Not by avariciously grasping, and meritlessly grinding all the subordinates whose
services they required; not by squeezing men like oranges, and throwing them away when squeezed;
but by choosing suitable assistants for every task they undertook, and making those assistants,
or advisers, feel that their interests were the same, that they were prepared to pay liberally
for services strenuously rendered.  By this system servants and sub-contractors worked for
them with all the zeal of friends, and by this system the tenantry of Middleton will attain
a degree of comfort and prosperity hitherto unknown, while the estate they occupy will be largely
increased in value.

It is most fortunate that, at a time when so much landed property is passing into the hands
of men of the class of which these gentlemen may be considered the intellectual leaders, an
example has been set, by them, of liberal and judicious management.

For this reason we do not think these rough notes on Middleton will be considered a useless
digression.

* * * * *

DRAINS AND REPAIRS.--Instead of the ordinary system of bit-by-bit repairs and instead of arrangements
for the tenants to execute drains, as the first step after the change of proprietorship, a
complete survey was made of the defects and of the value of all the holdings.  On this survey
the rents were fixed, with the understanding that while no increase of rent would be imposed
on a good tenant, lazy slovenly farming would be forthwith taxed with an additional ten per cent.

The landlords have themselves undertaken to execute a complete deep drainage of the whole property
at a cost of 20,000 pounds.  For this they charge the tenants five per cent. on the outlay
per acre occupied.  Farm buildings and farm houses are being put in thorough repair, and tenants
are expected so to keep them.

In the course of these repairs farm houses were found in which the windows were fixtures, not
intended to open!  While as to the farming, it is scarcely possible to imagine anything more
barbarous.  It is not a corn-growing district, and what corn is grown these weaver farmers,
indifferent apparently to loss of time, first lash against a board to get part of the grain
out, and then thrash the rest out of the straw!

Market garden cultivation, stall feeding, and root crops would answer well, but at the time
of the survey only two gardens were cultivated for the sale of produce in the unlimited markets
of Oldham, Rochdale, and Manchester; and little feeding except of pigs.

Orchard trees are now supplied by the landlords, free of cost, to all willing to take charge
of them.

It will be very difficult to induce these people to change their old slovenly style of farming,
for their chief pride is in their weaving, which is excellent, and many of them are in possession
of properties held for two and three generations without change.  But the system of encouraging
the good, and getting rid of the lazy, will work a reformation in time, especially as there
are some very good examples on the estate.  For instance, Benjamin Johnson, who, paying the
highest rent per acre, has creditably brought up ten children on nine acres of land, without
other employment.

Middleton is a district especially suited for small farms, so much so that it has been determined
to divide one or two of the larger ones.

Altogether it is a very primitive curious place, with several originals among the tenantry,
and some beautiful natural scenery, among whom a morning may be spent with profit and pleasure.

With the town and building land an equally comprehensive system has been adopted.

The defects of the existing buildings are to be cured as soon as, and in the best manner, that
circumstances will admit; while all new houses are to be built and drained on a fixed plan,
and all roadside cottages to have at least a quarter of an acre of ground for a garden.

It will take some years to work out complete results; it is, however, gratifying to see a landowner
placing himself in the hands of competent advisers, planning not for the profits of the hour,
but for the future, for the permanent health, happiness, and prosperity of all dwelling on
his property.

The pecuniary results promise to be highly satisfactory; it is already evident that increased
rents will be accompanied by increased prosperity, and it is thought in the neighbourhood that
in the next ten years, the property will, from the judicious expenditure of 30,000 pounds,
be worth at least 300,000 pounds.

So much for employing a scientific and practical agriculturist as land agent, instead of a
fashionable London attorney. {193}

YORKSHIRE.

From Manchester to Leeds is a journey of forty-five miles, and about two hours.  We should
like to describe Yorkshire, one of the few counties to which men are proud to belong.  We never
hear any one say, with conscious pride, "I am a Hampshireman or an Essex man, or even a Lancashireman,"
while there are some counties of which the natives are positively ashamed.

But we have neither time nor space to say anything about those things of which a Yorkshireman
has reason to be proud--of the hills, the woods, the dales, the romantic streams,--above all,
of the lovely Wharfe, of the fat plains, the great woods, the miles of black coal mines, where
we have heard the little boys driving their horses and singing hymns, sounding like angels
in the infernal regions, the rare good sheep, the Teeswater cattle, that gave us short-horns,
of horses, well known wherever the best are valued, be it racer, hunter, or proud-prancing
carriage horse; hounds that it takes a Yorkshire horse to live with; and huntsmen, whom to
hear tally-away and see ride out of cover makes the heart of man leap as at the sound of a
trumpet; foxes stanch and wily, worthy of the hounds; and then of those famous dalesmen farmers,
tall, broad-shouldered, with bullet heads, and keen grey eyes, rosy bloom, high cheek bones,
foxy whiskers, full white-teethed, laughing mouths, hard riders, hard drinkers, keen bargainers,
capital fellows; and besides those the slips, grafts, and thinnings from the farms, who in
factories, counting-houses, and shops, show something of the powerful Yorkshire stamp.  Everything
is great in Yorkshire, even their rogues are on a large scale; in Spain, men of the same calibre
would be prime ministers and grandees of the first class; in France, under a monarchy, a portfolio,
and the use of the telegraph, with no end of ribands, would have been the least reward.  Here
the honours stop short between two dukes, as supporters arm in arm; but still we are obliged
to own that no one but a Yorkshireman could have so bent all the wild beasts of Belgravia and
Mayfair, from the Countess Gazelle to the Ducal Elephant, to his purpose, as an ex-king did.
Our task will be confined on the present occasion to a sketch of Huddersfield and Leeds, centres
of the woollen manufacture, which forms the third great staple of English manufactures, and
of Sheffield, famed for keen blades.

* * * * *

HUDDERSFIELD, twenty-six miles from Manchester, is the first important town, on a road studded
with stations, from which busy weavers and spinners are continually passing and repassing.
It is situated in a naturally barren district, where previously to 1811 the inhabitants chiefly
lived on oaten cake, and has been raised to a high degree of prosperity by the extension of
the manufactures, a position on the high road between Manchester and Leeds, intersected by
a canal, uniting the east and west, or inland navigation, and more recently by railroads, which
connect it with all the manufacturing towns of the north.  An ample supply of water-power,
with coal and building stone, have contributed to this prosperity, of which advantage has been
taken to improve the streets, thoroughfares, and public buildings.  The use of a light yellow
building stone for the houses has a very pleasant appearance after the bricks of Manchester
and Liverpool.

The Huddersfield Canal, which connects the Humber and Mersey, is a very extraordinary piece
of work.  It is carried through and over a backbone of hills by stairs of more than thirty
locks in nine miles, and a tunnel three miles in length.  At one place it is 222 yards below
the surface, and at another 656.5 feet above the level of the sea.

When we examine such works, so profitable to the community, so unprofitable to the projectors,
how can we doubt the capability of our country to hold its own in any commercial race?  Men
make a country, not accidents of soil or climate, mines or forests.  For centuries California
and Central America have been in the hands of an Iberian race, fallow.  A few months of Anglo-Saxon
rule, and land and sea are boiling with fervid elements of cultivation, commerce, and civilization.
With time the dregs will disappear, and churches and schools, cornfields and fulling-mills,
will supersede grizzly bears and wandering Indians.

All the land in Huddersfield belongs to the Ramsden family, by whom the Cloth Hall was erected.
Six hundred manufacturers attend this hall every Tuesday.

The principal manufactures are of broad and narrow cloths, serges, kerseymeres, cords, and
fancy goods of shawls and waistcoatings, composed of mixed cotton, silk, and wool.

The neighbourhood of Huddersfield was the centre of the Luddite outbreak, when a large number
of persons engaged in the cloth manufacture, conceiving that they were injured by the use of
certain inventions for dressing cloth, banded together, traversed the country at night, searching
for and carrying off fire-arms, and attacking and destroying the manufactories of persons supposed
to use the obnoxious machines.

Great alarm was excited, some expected nothing less than a general insurrection; at length
the rioters were attacked, dispersed, a large number arrested, tried, and seventeen hanged.
Since that period not one but scores of mechanical improvements have been introduced into the
woollen manufacture without occasioning disturbance, and with benefit in increased employment
to the working classes.

The case of the Luddites was one of the few on which Lord Byron spoke in the Upper House, and
Horace Smith sang for Fitzgerald . . .

The population is about 30,000, and returns one member to the House of Commons.

About half a mile from the town is Lockwood Spa, of strongly sulphurous waters, for which a
set of handsome buildings have been provided.

LEEDS.

LEEDS, seventeen miles from Huddersfield, is the centre of five railways, by which it has direct
connection with Hull, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, on the east, and Carlisle on the west
coast, Sheffield, Nottingham, Derby, and Birmingham, in the Midland counties, possesses one
of the finest central railway stations in the kingdom, and has also the advantage of being
in the centre of inland navigation (a great advantage for the transport of heavy goods), as
it communicates with the eastern seas by the Aire and Calder navigation to the Humber, and
westward by the Leeds and Liverpool to the Mersey.  The town stands on a hill, which rises
from the banks of the river Aire.  Leeds has claims to antiquity, but few remains.  When Domesday
Book was compiled it appears to have been an agricultural district.

Wakefield was formerly the more important town.  Lord Clarendon, in 1642, speaks of Leeds,
Halifax, and Bradford, "as three very rich and populous towns, depending wholly upon clothing."

The first charter was granted to Leeds by Charles I., and the second by Charles II., on petition
of the clothworkers, merchants, and others, "to protect them from the great abuses, defects
and deceits, discovered and practised by fraudulent persons in the making, selling, and dyeing
of woollen cloths."

The principal manufacture of Leeds is woollen cloth.  Formerly the trade was carried on by
five or six thousand small master clothiers, who employed their own families, and some thirty
or forty thousand servants, and also carried on small farms.  But the extension of the factory
system has somewhat diminished their numbers.  There are still, however, in connection with
Leeds, several small clothing villages, in which the first stages of the operation are carried
on, in spinning, weaving, and fulling.

Large quantities of worsted goods are brought to Leeds to be finished and dyed, which have
been purchased, in an undyed state, at Bradford and Halifax. The dye-houses and dressing-shops
of Leeds are very extensive.  Goods purchased in a rough state in the Cloth Halls and Piece
Halls are taken there to be finished.  There are also extensive mills for spinning flax for
linen, canvas-sailing, thread, and manufactures of glass and earthenware.  In connection with
Messrs. Marshall's flax factory, the same firm are carrying on extensive experiments near Hull
in growing flax.

Cloth Halls.--Previous to 1711, the cloth market was held in the open street. In 1755, the
present Halls were erected, and in them the merchants purchase the half manufactured article
from the country manufacturers.

The Coloured Cloth Hall is a quadrangular building, 127.5 yards long, and 66 broad, divided
into six departments called streets.  Each street contains two rows of stands, and each stand
measures 22 inches in front, and is inscribed with the name of the clothier to whom it belongs.
The original cost was 3 pounds 3s.  This price advanced to 24 pounds at the beginning of the
present century; but it has now fallen below its original value--not owing to a decrease in
the quantity of manufactured goods, but owing to the prevalence of the factory system--in which
the whole operation is performed, from sorting the piece to packing the cloth fit for the tailor's
shelves--over the domestic system of manufacturing.  An additional story, erected on the north
side of the Coloured Cloth Hall, is used chiefly for the sale of ladies' cloths in their undyed
state.  The White Cloth Hall is nearly as large as the Coloured Cloth Hall, and on the same
plan.  The markets are held on Tuesdays and Saturdays, on which days alone the merchants are
permitted to buy in the Halls.  The time of the sale is in the forenoon, and commences by the
ringing of a bell, when each manufacturer is at his stand, the merchants go in, and the sales
commence.  At the end of an hour the bell warns the buyers and sellers that the market is about
to close, and in another quarter of an hour the bell rings a third time, and the business of
the day is terminated.  The White Cloth Hall opens immediately after the other is closed, and
the transactions are carried on in a similar manner.

The public buildings of Leeds are not externally imposing, and it is, without exception, one
of the most disagreeable-looking towns in England--worse than Manchester; it has also the reputation
of being very unhealthy to certain constitutions from the prevalence of dye-works.

The wealthy and employing classes in Leeds (we know no better term) have a reputation for charity,
and good management of charitable institutions. Howard the philanthropist visited the workhouse,
and praised the management, at a period when to deserve such praise was rare.  The subscriptions
to public charities are large, and there is an ancient fund for pious uses, said to amount
to upwards of 5000 pounds a-year, managed by a close self-elected corporation, about the distribution
of which they do not consider themselves bound to give any detailed information.  Dr. Hook,
the Vicar of Leeds, has organized a system of house-to-house visitation, for the purpose of
affording aid, in poverty and sickness, to the deserving and religious, and educational instruction
to all, which has effected a great deal of good, and would have done more, had not well known
circumstances shaken the confidence of the Leeds public in the honesty of some of the teachers.
All parties agree, however differing in opinions, that Dr. Hook himself is a most excellent,
charitable, self-sacrificing man.

A New Grammar School--first founded in 1552 by the Rev. Sir William Sheafield, and since endowed
by several other persons--is lodged in a building of ample size, with residence for the head
master, and enjoys an income of 2000 pounds a-year; and there are four Exhibitions of 70 pounds
a-year to Magdalen College, Cambridge, tenable till degree of M.A. has been taken; one Exhibition
of 100 pounds a-year, tenable for five years, at Queen's College, Oxford, open to a candidate
from Leeds school; and four of 50 pounds each, at Oxford or Cambridge, for four years.  There
were 174 scholars in 1850.  It is open to the sons of all residents in Leeds, without any fee
to the masters, who are liberally paid.  The elements of mathematics are taught.  The Charity
Commissioners reported it to be satisfactorily and ably conducted.

The Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, the Leeds Literary Institution, and the Leeds
Mechanics Institute, are all respectable in their class.  The Mechanics Institute forms the
centre of a union of Yorkshire associations of the same kind.

Three newspapers are published in Leeds, of large circulation, representing three shades of
political opinion.

The Leeds Mercury--which has, we believe, the largest circulation of any provincial paper--was
founded, and carried on for a long life, by the late Mr. Edward Baines, who represented his
native town in the first reformed parliament, and for some years afterwards--a very extraordinary
man, who, from a humble station, by his own talents made his way to wealth and influence. 
He was the author of the standard work on the cotton trade, as well as several valuable local
histories.  The Mercury is still carried on by his family.  One son is the proprietor of a
Liverpool paper, and another, the Right Honourable Matthew Talbot Baines, represents Hull,
and is President of the Poor-Law Board.

Among the celebrated natives of Leeds, were Sir Thomas Denison, whose life began like Whittington's;
John Smeaton, the engineer of Eddystone Lighthouse, the first who placed civil engineering
in the rank of a science; the two Reverend Milners (Joseph, and Isaac, Dean of Carlisle), great
polemical giants in their day, authors of "The History of the Church of Christ;" Dr. Priestly,
inventor of the pneumatic apparatus still used by chemists, and discoverer of oxygen and several
other gases; David Hartley, the metaphysician whom Coleridge so much admired that he called
his son after him; and Edward Fairfax, the translator of Tasso.  Nor must we forget Ralph Thoresby,
author of "Ducatus Leodiensis, or the Topography of the Town and Parish of Leeds"--a valuable
and curious book, published in 1715; and of "Vicaria Leodiensis, a History of the Church of
Leeds," published in 1724.

Wool Growing, and Woollen Manufactures.--Yorkshire is the ancient seat of a great woollen manufacture,
founded on the coarse wools of its native hills; but coal and cheap conveyance, with the stimulus
mechanical inventions have applied in the neighbouring counties to cotton, have given Yorkshire
such advantages over many ancient seats of manufacture, that it has transplanted and increased
a considerable portion of the fine cloth trade formerly carried on in the west of England alone,
besides engrafting and erecting a variety of other and new kinds of textiles, in which wool
or hair have some very slight part.

It is quite certain that woollen garments were among the first manufactured among barbarous
tribes.  We have seen this year, in the Exhibition in Hyde Park, specimens of white felted
cloth from India, equal, if not superior, to anything that we can manufacture for strength
and durability, which must have been made with the rude tools, of the form which has been in
use for probably at least two thousand years.

English coarse wools have been celebrated, and in demand among foreign nations, from the earliest
periods of our history.  In the time of William the Conqueror, an inundation in the Netherlands
drove many clothiers over, and William of Malmesbury tells us that the king welcomed them,
and placed them first in Carlisle, where there are still manufactories, and then in the western
counties, where they could find what was indispensable for their trade--streams for washing
and plenty of wood for boiling their vats.  Very early the manufacturers applied to restrain
the exportation of English wool. In the time of Edward I., we find a duty of twenty shillings
to forty shillings per bag on importation.  Edward III. prohibited the export of wool, at the
same time he took his taxes and subsidies in wool, which became a favourite medium of taxation
with our monarchs, and sent his wool abroad for sale.  Under his reign, Flemish weavers were
encouraged to settle here and improve the manufacture, which became spread all over England
thus--Norfolk fustians, Suffolk baize, Essex serges and says, Kent broadcloth, Devon kerseys,
Gloucestershire cloth, Worcestershire cloth, Wales friezes, Westmoreland cloth, Yorkshire cloth,
Somersetshire serges, Hampshire, Berkshire, and Sussex cloth: districts from a great number
of which woollen manufactures have now disappeared.  We have Parliamentary records of the mutual
absurdities by which the woollen manufacturers, on the one hand, sought to obtain a monopoly
of British wool, and the wool growers endeavoured to secure the exclusive right to supply the
raw material.  Act after act was laid upon everything connected with wool, so that it is only
extraordinary that, under such restrictive trammeling, the trade survived at all.

In 1781, when, the price of wool being low, the Lincolnshire woolgrowers met under the chairmanship
of their great landowners, and resolved on petitions praying "that British might be exported
and that Irish wool might be excluded from England;" thereupon the Yorkshire manufacturers
met and resolved that "the exportation of wool would be ruinous to the trade and manufactures
of England," that the manufacturers would be obliged to leave the kingdom for want of employment,
and that the importation of Irish woollen yarn ought to be interdicted.

The manufacturers were under the impression that no other country than England could produce
the long wools suitable for the manufacture of worsted.

Some time afterwards the woollen manufacturers thought themselves likely to be ruined by the
introduction of cotton cloth, "to the ruin of the staple trade of the kingdom," and succeeded
in placing an excise duty upon the new fabric.

The contention between sheepowners and manufacturers continued until, in 1824, when the influence
of Mr. Huskisson's opinions on trade were beginning to be felt in Parliament, and to the disgust
of both parties, a compromise was effected by a reduction of all wool duties to a uniform duty
of ld. per lb. on the export of British and importation of foreign wool.  The last step was
a total repeal of all duties.

English wools may be divided into long and short staples.  The long is used for worsted, which
is finished when it leaves the loom; the short for cloth, which is compacted together, increased
in bulk and diminished in breadth, by fulling; that is, so beating as to take advantage of
the serrated edges of the wool which lead it to felt together.

Foreign wool, known as merino, has been used from an early period.  In the time of the Stuarts,
an attempt was made to monopolize all the Spanish wool exported.

Wars and bad government in Spain have destroyed the export trade in merino wool, but the breed,
transplanted into Germany, has multiplied and even improved.  Our finest wool is obtained from
Silesia, and the breed is cultivated with more or less success in many parts of the European
continent. In England, all attempts to cultivate the merino with profit have failed. Next to
Germany in quality, and exceeding that country in quantity, we obtain our greatest supply of
fine wool from Australia, where, in the course of twenty-five years, the merino sheep has multiplied
to the extent of twelve or thirteen million head, and is still increasing; thus doubling our
supply of a fine article, not equal to German, but, at the low price at which it can be furnished,
helping to create entirely new manufactures by intermixing with our own coarse wools, which
it renders more available and valuable.  We also obtain wool from the Cape of Good Hope, from
India, from Egypt, and from South America.

