Sec. 3.--And be it further enacted that in all such Vestries every inhabitant present, who
shall by the last rate which shall have been made for the relief of the poor have been assessed
and charged upon or in respect of any annual rent, profit, or value not amounting to fifty
pounds, shall have and be entitled to give one vote and no more; and every inhabitant then
present, who shall in such last rate have been assessed or charged upon or in respect of any
annual rent or rents, profit or value, amounting to fifty pounds or upwards, whether in one
or in more than one sum or charge, shall have and be entitled to give one vote for every twenty-five
pounds of annual rent, profit, and value upon or in respect of which he shall have been assessed
or charged in such last rate, so, nevertheless, that no inhabitant shall be entitled to give
more than six votes; and in cases when two or more of the inhabitants present shall be jointly
rated, each of them shall be entitled to vote according to the proportion and amount which
shall be borne by him of the joint charge; and when one only of the persons jointly rated shall
attend, he shall be entitled to vote according to and in respect of the whole joint charge.

Sec. 4.--Provided and be it further enacted that when any person shall have become an inhabitant
of any parish, or become liable to be rated therein, since the making of the last rate for
the relief of the poor thereof, he shall be entitled to vote for and in respect of the lands,
tenements, and property for which he shall have become liable to be rated, and shall consent
to be rated, in like manner as if he should have been actually rated for the same.

Sec. 5.--Provided also and it is hereby further enacted that no person who shall have refused
or neglected to pay any rate for the relief of the poor which shall be due from him and shall
have been demanded of him, and (see Sec. 3 of the next Act quoted) shall be entitled to vote
or to be present in any Vestry of the parish for which such rate shall have been made, until
he shall have paid the same.

59 Geo. III, c. 85, sec. 1.

. . . From and after the passing of this Act, any person who shall be assessed and rated for
the relief of the poor in respect of any annual rent, profit, or value arising from any lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, situate in any parish in which any Vestry shall be holden under
the said recited Act (58 Geo. III, c 69), although such person shall not reside in or be an
inhabitant of such parish, shall and may lawfully be present at such Vestry . . . and have
the same privileges as though he were an inhabitant of the said parish.

Sec. 3 of the same Act states that the word "and," marked in italics in the above quotation
from Geo. III, c. 69, was inserted by mistake.

APPENDIX IV.

14 and 15 Vict., c. 97, sec. 23.

From and after the passing of this Act no select Vestry shall be formed under the provisions
of the Church Building Act, and every such select Vestry already formed under such provisions
shall be and is hereby declared to be abolished, and all the powers and provisions therein
enacted relative to such select Vestries shall henceforth cease and determine, provided that
all matters and things done by any such select Vestry in pursuance of any powers given them
by such Acts, or any of them, shall be and remain as valid as if such select Vestry had not
been abolished.

APPENDIX V.

It was agreed in 1870 between some of the leading Laity of the Counties of Hants and Surrey
and the then Bishop of the Diocese that the sum asked should only be five shillings, payable
annually by each parish and ecclesiastical district by the hands of the Churchwardens.  When
there is an election of a Proctor to Convocation, an additional shilling is added, making the
total due six shillings.  It was also decided at the meeting before referred to that this charge
might be defrayed out of the offertory or other voluntary collections for Church purposes in
any parish or ecclesiastical district.  I am happy to say that the cases are, comparatively
speaking, rare in which the Churchwardens decline to pay this charge, reduced by voluntary
action as it has been from the legal figure of eighteen shillings to either five shillings
or in some years six shillings, the extra shilling being added when an election of a Proctor
for the Archdeaconry takes place.

APPENDIX VI.

Canons agreed upon by the Convocation for the Province of Canterbury assembled by the king's
licence in their Synod, A.D. 1603, published by His Majesty's authority under the Great Seal
of England.

89.  The choice of Churchwardens and their Account.

All Churchwardens or Questmen in every parish shall be chosen by the joint consent of the Minister
and parishioners, if it may be; but if they cannot agree upon such a choice, then the Minister
shall choose one, and the parishioners another: and without such a joint or several choice
none shall take upon them to be Churchwardens: neither shall they continue any longer than
one year in that office, except perhaps they be chosen again in like manner.  And all Churchwardens
at the end of their year, or within a month after at the most, shall before the Minister and
the parishioners give up a just account of such money as they have received, and also what
particularly they have bestowed in reparations and otherwise, for the use of the Church.  And,
last of all, going out of their office, they shall truly deliver up to the parishioners whatsoever
money or other things of right belonging to the Church or parish, which remaineth in their
hands, that it may be delivered over by them to the next Churchwardens by bill indented.

90.  The choice of Sidemen, and their joint office with Churchwardens.

The Churchwarden or Questmen of every parish, and two or three or more discreet persons in
every parish, to be chosen for Sidemen or Assistants by the Minister and parishioners, if they
can agree (otherwise to be appointed by the Ordinary of the diocese), shall diligently see
that all the parishioners duly resort to their Church upon all Sundays and Holy-days, and there
continue the whole time of Divine Service; and none to walk or to stand idle or talking in
the Church, or in the Churchyard, or in the Church-porch, during that time.  And all such as
shall be found slack or negligent in resorting to the Church (having no great or urgent cause
of absence) they shall earnestly call upon them; and after due monition (if they amend not)
they shall present them to the Ordinary of the place.  The choice of which persons, viz., Churchwardens
or Questmen, Sidemen, or Assistants, shall be yearly made in Easter-week.

85.  Churches to be kept in sufficient Reparations.

The Churchwarden or Questmen shall take care and provide that the Churches be well and sufficiently
repaired, and so from time to time kept and maintained, that the windows be well glazed, and
that the floors be kept paved, plain and even, and all things there in such an orderly and
decent sort, without dust, or anything that may be either noisome or unseemly, as best becometh
the House of God, and is prescribed in an Homily to that effect.  The like care they shall
take that the Churchyards be well and sufficiently repaired, fenced and maintained with walls,
rails, or pales, as have been in each place accustomed, at their charges unto whom by law the
same appertaineth: but especially they shall see that in every meeting of the congregation
peace be well kept: and that all persons excommunicated, and so denounced, be kept out of the
Church.

88.  Churches not to be profaned.

The Churchwardens, or Questmen, and their Assistants, shall suffer no plays, feasts, banquets,
suppers, church-ales, drinkings, temporal courts, or leets, lay juries, musters, or any other
profane usage, to be kept in the Church, Chapel, or Churchyard, neither the bells to be rung
superstitiously upon holy days, or eves abrogated by the Book of Common Prayer, nor at any
other times without good cause to be allowed by the Minister of the place, and by themselves.

52.  The names of strange Preachers to be noted in a book.

That the Bishop may understand (if occasion so require) what sermons are made in every Church
of his diocese and who presume to preach without licence, the Churchwardens and Sidemen shall
see that the names of all Preachers, which come to their Church from any other place, be noted
in a book which they shall have ready for that purpose; wherein every Preacher shall subscribe
his name, the day when he preached, and the name of the Bishop of whom he had license to preach.

111.  Disturbers of Divine Service to be presented.

In all visitations of Bishops and Archdeacons the Churchwardens, or Questmen, and Sidemen shall
truly and personally present the names of all those which behave themselves rudely and disorderly
in the Church, or which by untimely ringing of bells, by walking, talking, or other noise,
shall hinder the Minister or Preacher.

118.  The old Churchwardens to make their presentments before the new be sworn.

The office of all Churchwardens and Sidemen shall be reputed ever hereafter to continue until
the new Churchwardens that shall succeed them be sworn, which shall be the first week after
Easter or some week following, according to the direction of the Ordinary, which time so appointed
shall always be one of the two times in every year, when the Minister, and Churchwardens, and
Sidemen of every parish shall exhibit to their several Ordinaries the presentments of such
enormities as have happened in their parishes since their last presentments.  And this duty
they shall perform before the newly-chosen Churchwardens and Sidemen be sworn, and shall not
be suffered to pass over the said presentments to those that are newly come into office and
are by intendment ignorant of such crimes, under pain of those censures which are appointed
for the reformation of such dalliers and dispensers with their own consciences and oaths.

APPENDIX VII.

18 and 19 Vict., cap. 128, sec. 18.

Burial Board to keep in order closed burial grounds, etc.

In every case in which any order in Council has been or shall hereafter be issued for the discontinuance
of burials in any churchyard or burial ground, the Burial Board, or Churchwardens, as the case
may be, shall maintain such churchyard or burial ground of any parish in decent order, and
also do the necessary repair of the walls and other fences thereof, and the costs and expenses
shall be repaid by the Overseers upon the certificate of the Burial Board, or Churchwardens,
as the case may be, out of the rate made for the relief of the poor of the parish or place
in which such churchyard or burial ground is situate, unless there shall be some other fund
legally chargeable with such costs and expenses.

The words in italics have given rise to some dispute as to their interpretation.  Some Burial
Boards have claimed the right to maintain closed churchyards.  The question was brought into
the Court of Queen's Bench in 1879, and it was decided that a Burial Board was required to
maintain a closed cemetery, and that Churchwardens were the proper persons to maintain a closed
churchyard. {79}

APPENDIX VIII.

15 and 16 Vict., cap. 85, sec. 10.

Churchwardens after order or at any time upon requisition of ten ratepayers to convene Vestry
Meeting to determine whether a burial ground shall be provided.

Upon the requisition in writing of ten or more ratepayers {80a} of any parish in the metropolis
{80b} in which the place or places of burial shall appear to such ratepayers insufficient or
dangerous to health (and whether any Order in Council in relation to any burial ground in such
parish has or has not been made), the Churchwardens and other persons to whom it belongs to
convene meetings of the Vestry of such parish shall convene a meeting of the Vestry for the
special purpose of determining whether a burial ground shall be provided under this Act for
the parish; and public notice of such Vestry Meeting, and the place and hour of holding the
same, and the special purpose thereof, shall be given in the usual manner in which notices
of the meetings of the Vestry are given, at least seven days before holding such Vestry Meeting:
and if it be resolved by the Vestry that a burial ground shall be provided under this Act for
the parish, a copy of such resolution extracted from the minutes of the Vestry, and signed
by the Chairman, shall be sent to one of Her Majesty's principal Secretaries of State.

APPENDIX IX.

24 and 25 Vict., cap. 125, sec. 2.

The Overseers of any parish may, with the consent of the Vestry, provide proper depositories
of all the documents, books, and papers belonging to such parish, for which no provision is
otherwise made by law, and charge the cost thereof on the poor rate.

52 Geo. III, cap. 146, sec. 5.

And be it further enacted that the . . . register books . . . shall be kept by and remain in
the power and custody of the Rector, Curate, or other officiating Minister of each respective
parish or chapelry as aforesaid, and shall be by him safely and securely kept in a dry, well
painted iron chest, to be provided and repaired, as occasion may require, at the expense of
the parish or chapelry, and which said chest, containing the said books, shall be constantly
kept locked in some dry, safe, and secure place within the usual place of residence of such
Rector, Vicar, Curate, or other officiating minister, if resident within the parish or chapelry,
or in the parish church or chapel; and the said books shall not, nor shall any of them, be
taken or removed from or out of the said chest, at any time or for any cause whatever, except
for the purpose of making such entries therein as aforesaid, or for the inspection of persons
desirous to make search therein, or to obtain copies from or out of the same, or to be produced
as evidence in some court of law or equity, or to be inspected as to the state and condition
thereof, or for some other purposes of this Act; and that immediately after making such inspection,
entries, or producing the said books respectively for the purposes aforesaid, the said books
shall forthwith again be safely and securely deposited in the said chest.

APPENDIX X.

43 Geo. III, cap. 108.

CONVENIENCES.--Permits conveyance of site to any Body Political or Corporate.

--Contains no clause avoiding the conveyance if Service is discontinued for a time.

INCONVENIENCES.--Requires the concurrence of Ordinary.

--Will be avoided (unless made for valuable consideration) if grantor dies within three months.

--Must be strictly for a Church or Chapel.

--Must be enrolled within six months.

--No provision for grant by a person under disability, e.g., tenant for life.

Place of Worship Sites' Act. 36 & 37 Vict., cap. 50.

CONVENIENCES.--Enables tenant for life to convey.

--Does not require consent of Ordinary.

--Deed will not be avoided by death of grantor within twelve months after execution of it.

INCONVENIENCES.--Contains no power of conveyance to a Body Corporate except permission given
to make Ecclesiastical Commissioners trustees of the site.

--Contains clauses involving the loss of the property, (a) if the land be used for any other
purpose than that of a site for a place of worship; (b) if Service be discontinued in the place
of worship for one year.

--May give difficulty as to consecration, if the Mission Room becomes a Church, owing to possible
reversion to profane uses on the temporary discontinuance of Services.

School Sites' Act. 4 & 5 Vict., cap 38; 7 & 8 Vict., cap. 37.

CONVENIENCES.--Enable tenants for life to convey.

--Permit conveyance to Bodies Corporate making Minister and Churchwardens a corporation with
perpetual succession for the purposes of these Acts.

INCONVENIENCES.--Contain clauses involving the loss of the property if used for other purposes
than those of education.

--Require enrolment of deeds.

Churchwardens' Manual NOTICES OF THE FIRST EDITION.

"Churchwardens will find in the Churchwardens' Manual some useful brief notes put together
by the Bishop of Guildford relative to their duties, powers, rights and privileges."--Guardian,
April 9th.

"The Bishop of Guildford has just published a very useful little handbook for the use and guidance
of Church wardens . . . The book is a most helpful one with regard to Church matters."--Hampshire
Chronicle.

"The Bishop of Guildford's Churchwardens' Manual meets a real want, in that it provides in
small compass . . . a handy pocket book containing the many matters legal and ecclesiastical,
which concern the Churchwarden's office . . . No one ought to assume it without being armed
with such a work as this, and an Incumbent cannot do better than present his Churchwardens
with this little Manual."--Church Times.

"It is a Manual which ought to be in the possession of every holder of the important office
of Churchwarden, and which other Churchmen also would do well to familiarise themselves with,
as a better understanding of the subject would be greatly to the advantage of many parishes;
clear, precise, handy and cheap, it is precisely the handbook that was wanted."--Winchester
Observer.

"A thoroughly useful and practical work, and just the one which ought to be in the hands both
of Incumbents and Churchwardens."--Ecclesiastical Chronicle.

Footnotes:

{2}  Smith's Christian Antiquities, i, 391; Bingham's Antiquities of the Christian Church,
B. ii, c. 19, sec. 19.

{4}  1 Will. and M., ch. 18, sec. 5; 31 Geo. III, ch. 32, sec. 7.

{5}  See Appendix No. I.

{6}  Prideaux's Churchwardens' Guide, p. 17. 1, 2.

{8b}  Note 58 Geo. III, c. 69, sec. 2.

{8c}  See Appendix No. VI.

{9a}  Phillimore II, 1470.

{9b}  Dewdney v. Good referred to in Addresses delivered to the Churchwardens and Sidesmen
of the Diocese of Liverpool, by Thomas E. Espin, D.D., Chancellor of the Diocese.  Liverpool:
Holden, Church Street.  p. 29.

{10a}  See Appendix No. III.

{10b}  See Appendix No. IV.

{11}  As far, however, as the diocese of Winchester is concerned, see Appendix No. V.

{12}  Cripps' Practical Treatise on the Law relating to the Church and Clergy, 6th Ed., pp.
178, 182.  It may be a question whether Lord Coleridge's judgment as to the residence of Churchwardens
may not affect this.  See Appends No. I.

{14}  Churchwardens are ex officio Overseers under the Poor Relief Act, 1601 (43 Eliz., c.
2, s. 1), only in the case of an ancient ecclesiastical parish, for which overseers are appointed
under that Act.--Jenkin's Local Government Act, p. 25.

{22}  See Appendix No VI.

{30a}  18 and 19 Vict., cap. 128, sec xviii.  See Appendix No. VII.

{30b}  The Queen v. the Burial Board of Bishop Wearmouth.--Law Reports, Queen's Bench Division,
vol. v, p. 67.  See Appendix VII.

{32}  See Appendix No. VIII.

{34a}  See Appendix No. IX.

{34a}  See An Address to Churchwardens, by the Bishop of Carlisle, published by the S.P.C.K.,
p. 13.

{35}  By 59 Geo. III, c. 134, s. 11.--The Ecclesiastical Commissioners are empowered to make
a table of fees for any parish with the consent of the Vestry, and with the consent of the
Bishop of the Diocese.

{43}  Bishop of Carlisle's Address to Churchwardens, S.P.C.K., p. 17.

