   So in God's acre here they meet
      As they have met above,
   Tasting beneath their Saviour's feet
      The treasures of His love.

   For what they learnt and taught of here
      Is present with them there;
   May we speed on in faith and fear,
      Then heavenly rest to share.

With the coming of our present Vicar, the Rev. H. W. Brock, our Otterbourne story ends, as
the times are no longer old times.  The water works for the supply of Southampton are our last
novelty, by which such of us benefit, as either themselves or their landlords pay a small contribution.
They have given us some red buildings at one end and on the Hill a queer little round tower
containing the staircase leading to the underground reservoir, a wonderful construction of
circles of brick pillars and arches, as those remember who visited it before the water was
let in.  And, verily, we may be thankful that our record has so few events in it, no terrible
disasters, but that there has been peace and health and comfort, more than falls to the lot
of many a parish.  Truly we may thankfully say, "The lot is fallen unto me in a fair ground,
yea, I have a goodly heritage."

{Birds on fence: p42.jpg}

Old Remembrances.

{Bridges over river: p43.jpg}

I remember, I remember,
   Old times at Otterbourne,
Before the building of the Church,
   And when smock frocks were worn! 

These boil the fat of the whale
   and pinniped with roots of setage.
A pound of wet caviar will last a
   Kamtschatdale on a journey for a considerable time, since he finds
bread to eat with it in the bark of the birch and elder he meets
with.



"Red Rover" and the "Telegraph,"
   We knew them all by name,
And Mason's and the Oxford coach,
   Full thirty of them came.

The coachman wore his many capes,
   The guard his bugle blew;
The horses were a gallant sight,
   Dashing upon our view.

I remember, I remember,
   The posting days of old;
The yellow chariot lined with blue
   And lace of colour gold.

The post-boys' jackets blue or buff,
   The inns upon the road;
The hills up which we used to walk
   To lighten thus the load.

The rattling up before the inn,
   The horses led away,
The post-boy as he touched his hat
   And came to ask his pay.

The perch aloft upon the box,
   Delightful for the view;
The turnpike gates whose keepers stood
   Demanding each his due.

I remember, I remember,
   When ships were beauteous things,
The floating castles of the deep
   Borne upon snow-white wings;

Ere iron-clads and turret ships,
   Ugly as evil dream,
Became the hideous progeny
   Of iron and of steam.

You crossed the Itchen ferry
   All in an open boat,
Now, on a panting hissing bridge
   You scarcely seem afloat.

Southampton docks were sheets of mud,
   Grim colliers at the quay.
No tramway, and no slender pier
   To stretch into the sea.

I remember, I remember,
   Long years ere Rowland Hill,
When letters covered quarto sheets
   Writ with a grey goose quill;

Both hard to fold and hard to read,
   Crossed to the scarlet seal;
Hardest of all to pay for ere
   Their news they might reveal.

No stamp with royal head was there,
   But eightpence was the sum
For every letter, all alike,
   That did from London come!

I remember, I remember,
   The mowing of the hay;
Scythes sweeping through the heavy grass
   At breaking of the day.

The haymakers in merry ranks
   Tossing the swaths so sweet,
The haycocks tanning olive-brown
   In glowing summer heat.

The reapers 'mid the ruddy wheat,
   The thumping of the flail,
The winnowing within the barn
   By whirling round a sail.

Long ere the whirr, and buz, and rush
   Became a harvest sound,
Or monsters trailed their tails of spikes,
   Or ploughed the fallow ground.

Our sparks flew from the flint and steel,
   No lucifers were known,
Snuffers with tallow candles came
   To prune the wick o'ergrown.

