We were all dressed alike: broad slouch hats, to keep the sun off; gray knapsacks; blue army
shirts; blue overalls; leathern gaiters buttoned tight from knee down to ankle; high-quarter
coarse shoes snugly laced. Each man had an opera-glass, a canteen, and a guide-book case slung
over his shoulder, and carried an alpenstock in one hand and a sun-umbrella in the other. Around
our hats were wound many folds of soft white muslin, with the ends hanging and flapping down
our backs--an idea brought from the Orient and used by tourists all over Europe. Harris carried
the little watch-like machine called a "pedometer," whose office is to keep count of a man's
steps and tell how far he has walked. Everybody stopped to admire our costumes and give us
a hearty "Pleasant march to you!"

When we got downtown I found that we could go by rail to within five miles of Heilbronn. The
train was just starting, so we jumped aboard and went tearing away in splendid spirits. It
was agreed all around that we had done wisely, because it would be just as enjoyable to walk
DOWN the Neckar as up it, and it could not be needful to walk both ways. There were some nice
German people in our compartment. I got to talking some pretty private matters presently, and
Harris became nervous; so he nudged me and said:

"Speak in German--these Germans may understand English."

I did so, it was well I did; for it turned out that there was not a German in that party who
did not understand English perfectly. It is curious how widespread our language is in Germany.
After a while some of those folks got out and a German gentleman and his two young daughters
got in. I spoke in German of one of the latter several times, but without result. Finally she said:

"ICH VERSTEHE NUR DEUTCH UND ENGLISHE,"--or words to that effect. That is, "I don't understand
any language but German and English."

And sure enough, not only she but her father and sister spoke English. So after that we had
all the talk we wanted; and we wanted a good deal, for they were agreeable people. They were
greatly interested in our customs; especially the alpenstocks, for they had not seen any before.
They said that the Neckar road was perfectly level, so we must be going to Switzerland or some
other rugged country; and asked us if we did not find the walking pretty fatiguing in such
warm weather. But we said no.

We reached Wimpfen--I think it was Wimpfen--in about three hours, and got out, not the least
tired; found a good hotel and ordered beer and dinner--then took a stroll through the venerable
old village. It was very picturesque and tumble-down, and dirty and interesting. It had queer
houses five hundred years old in it, and a military tower 115 feet high, which had stood there
more than ten centuries. I made a little sketch of it. I kept a copy, but gave the original
to the Burgomaster.

I think the original was better than the copy, because it had more windows in it and the grass
stood up better and had a brisker look. There was none around the tower, though; I composed
the grass myself, from studies I made in a field by Heidelberg in Haemmerling's time. The man
on top, looking at the view, is apparently too large, but I found he could not be made smaller,
conveniently. I wanted him there, and I wanted him visible, so I thought out a way to manage
it; I composed the picture from two points of view; the spectator is to observe the man from
bout where that flag is, and he must observe the tower itself from the ground. This harmonizes
the seeming discrepancy. [Figure 2]

Near an old cathedral, under a shed, were three crosses of stone--moldy and damaged things,
bearing life-size stone figures. The two thieves were dressed in the fanciful court costumes
of the middle of the sixteenth century, while the Saviour was nude, with the exception of a
cloth around the loins.

