The Mystery of Monastery Farm

                            By H. R. NAYLOR

                                 1908

CHAPTER I

A GREAT BANK ROBBERY

On the eleventh day of April, 18--, the officers of the Bank of England were greatly excited
on receiving notice of a special meeting called for that night at ten o'clock, an unusual hour,
and indicating, surely, something of great importance. Promptly at the hour appointed fifteen
directors occupied their usual places in the council chamber. There were also present two paying
tellers, which was not usual. Besides these two bank clerks was observed Major Andrews, the
well-known chief of the Bow Street detective service, and by his side sat two of his assistants.
As yet, there were only five persons present who knew the cause of this meeting--the president,
cashier, and the chief and his assistants.

No time was permitted to waste. The president of the bank in a few nervous words asked the
cashier to state the object of the call. Mr. Bone at once stated that there were strong indications
that a robbery of the bank had been perpetrated; that a large amount of currency had been abstracted
from the paying teller's room. Hence this sudden call for consultation; this, also, accounted
for the unusual presence of Chief Andrews and his colleagues. He then called on Mr. Roe, the
senior paying teller, to make a statement of what he knew of the matter.

Mr. Roe arose, and told that at nine o'clock that morning in his preparations for business
he had brought from the vault a quantity of currency and placed it with other moneys on a side
table conveniently situate for ready use. And that when, about two o'clock, he had occasion
for its use, it was gone. Everything possible had been done to gain a clue, but there was not
the slightest thing upon which to hang the faintest suspicion.

Major Andrews, stepping in front of the table, then requested permission to ask Mr. Roe a few
questions simply for information. This permission was at once granted.

"Mr. Roe," asked the chief, "what was the general appearance of this money? Was it loose or
in a package?"

"It was a neat package," replied Mr. Roe, "wrapped in brown paper, with its character and value
marked distinctly on the wrapper."

"You say," said the chief, "'character and value distinctly marked on the wrapper.' Please
to explain what you mean by these terms."

"I mean," replied the teller, "by 'character' that there were one hundred and fifty one-thousand-pound
notes, and by 'value' the value of the package--one hundred and fifty thousand pounds."

"Mr. Roe," continued the major, "is it the custom of your department to have so large an amount
of currency upon your side table?"

"No, sir," replied the teller, "but I had been notified that a large draft would be presented
today, and this package came nearest to the amount spoken of; consequently, I selected and
brought it to my table out of the vault to be in readiness to pay the draft when presented."

"You say you had been notified that a large draft would be presented. May I ask who notified you?"

"The cashier told me this morning when we were getting ready to open," was the prompt reply.

"Mr. Roe, when did you last see this money?"

"This morning about a quarter after nine, when it was placed upon my table; I counted the notes."

"Mr. Roe, do you feel free to tell the Board the name of the party who was expected to draw
on you for this large amount?"

The teller's head dropped somewhat, and after a slight hesitation he replied: "Major, I cannot
do this in accordance with the rules of the bank."

"Ah! that is all right, Mr. Roe; I forgot your rules. We can get at this in some other way.
Mr. Roe, will you tell us if you did cash the large draft today which you say the cashier had
indicated?"

"Yes, sir. I cashed a draft for one hundred and thirty-eight thousand pounds."

"Mr. Roe, was anyone in your room during banking hours?"

"Yes, the president and cashier both visited my room; it is their custom and, I believe, duty
to do so each day."

"When did you first miss the package?"

"When the large draft was presented about two o'clock."

"What did you do then?"

"I spoke through the 'phone to Mr. Bone, asking him to come in."

"Does not the porter come to your room occasionally?"

"He never comes into the room after nine o'clock."

"Cannot other clerks enter?"

"Not without permission. The door fastens with a spring lock."

"How about your lunch?"

"Our lunch is handed us at half-past twelve through the door which we open."

"Now, Mr. Roe, with your knowledge of the case, what is your conviction concerning this lost
package of money?"

"Major, I am compelled to say that I have not the faintest suspicion as to how it was taken."

Moving suddenly around, the major looked at the cashier and said: "Mr. Bone, what was your
business in the teller's room this morning?"

"It is one of my duties, morning and evening, to tally the cash taken from the vault and returned
in the evening."

"How long were you there this morning?"

"Perhaps fifteen or twenty minutes."

"When were you there the next time?"

"About half-past two, when Mr. Roe 'phoned me to come to his room, and I again opened the vault,
that the teller might get some money to cash the large draft of one hundred and thirty-eight
thousand pounds."

Much discussion followed this informal catechising, but the only thing evident was that the
package was lost. How it had disappeared, or where it was, none could so much as guess. Here
were twenty men--thorough business men--several of whom had had large and successful banking
experience, among them a cashier than whom there was no brighter financier in the great city
of London, and the chief of a peerless detective force, with two of his shrewdest colleagues.
All were nonplussed, annoyed, humiliated, returning to their homes and leaving the great building
in charge of half a score of sturdy watchmen, safer, it would seem, in the night than in the day.

Next day several city newspapers had the following:

"REWARD

"A reward of TEN THOUSAND POUNDS will be paid for the arrest of the party or parties who abstracted
a valuable package of Bank of England notes April 11, 18--, from said bank. This currency can
be of no value to the thieves, as the bank holds a list of the numbers, and their circulation
has been ordered stopped. The receiver of any of these notes will be liable to arrest."

Nearly every important newspaper in the kingdom copied this item. Besides this, a list of the
numbers of the lost notes was sent to every banking institution in England and America.

CHAPTER II

MONASTERY FARM

Billy Sparrow stood leaning against the gate post, looking down upon the river three hundred
yards away. He and his two helpers had been cultivating corn and tobacco through a long June
day; and now the sun was going down, and he was making his plans for tomorrow's work. Billy
had just closed his fourth year as master of Monastery Farm. Billy was an Englishman from Durham
County, having attended school in Barnard's Castle three years, with an additional two and
a half years spent at the agricultural college in Darlington. He then married the girl of his
choice and for four years superintended his father's farm; then, with their one child, three
years old, set sail for America to seek his fortune, and four weeks later landed in New York.

Billy had letters of recommendation from the Wesleyan minister, Dr. Walsh, his father's physician,
and old Squire Horner. But in vain did Billy present these credentials as he tramped the streets--nobody
seemed to need his services in a city containing millions of people. Billy's capital was getting
low and he was becoming discouraged. From one of those profitless tramps he was returning one
evening when he observed the word "parsonage" on a door plate. He had always had a friend in
a preacher in his native town; why not make the acquaintance of this one? Perhaps he might
tell him of some sort of employment. Without stopping to think further he pulled the bell.
In a moment or two he found himself in the presence of a young man, one but little older than
himself, and the stranger was invited inside, feeling very much at home with the preacher.

After quite a lengthy conversation the preacher remarked: "You are a farmer; New York is no
place for you. I would advise you to go out into the country; and, by the way, I believe I
saw, a day or two since, an advertisement for a man to take charge of a farm."

After some search on the part of the minister the paper containing the announcement was found.
Billy, having eagerly read the advertisement, thanked the minister, pushed the paper into his
pocket, and speedily left the house. He returned to the humble apartment that he had secured,
and as the little family partook of their frugal evening meal, his wife Nancy, addressing her
husband, said: "I think we had better get out of this expensive city, somewhere into the country,
where it is cheaper living, and where you may find something to do more to your liking." He
  created, stretched to the royal couch, The Phaedra
  wonderful body of longing matt Fluttering over it
  and Eros, which fills with sweet torment the limbs. Gewaltgen pitchers
  he loved a Bacchus festival To give jewelry,
  where the purple grape juice Sprayed under the
  bare foot maenad And flying hair and Thyrsusschwung
  meets the air. Persephone was high at funeral urns image
  Looking with the soulless, red eyes, And flowers
  of oblivion, poppy, in the holy hair The unrealistic,
  asphodel fields occurs. Would be no end of talking,
  I count on all The divine, in whose beautiful
  life I - For the second time live, which was
  formed - In their grief and hatred and love
  lust And changing experience for all So I share,
  I had a child, To me with half-understood
  feelings touch Touched my deepest
  soul strings, That I sometimes felt as
  if I would sleep The always hidden mysteries
  by mistake Of pleasure and pain, knower with
  keen eye, Of these, returned to this sunlight,
  I still admonishing the other memory life
  And a stranger, make me Ausgeschloßne In this
  nurturing, air live births in the world.
  
  THE SMITH
  

The sense of being confused too many idleness The good-minded, like
dreamy child, I think.

  And lacking that reverence, the white-separate, As
  befits the gods, what people! Semele as blogs, The foolish
  challenging, ceasing only conceptual. Her husband's
  craft learning holy hold you, The reason comes from
  the maternal viscera And, the hundred-untamed,
  The flame, subduing, smart and powerful effect.

THE
  WOMAN
  
  to see the flame, lured me again and again, The changing, heady with
hot breath.

  
  THE SMITH

  Rather, rejoice in the sight of the work
  up! The weapons themselves, the sacred plow hardness
  also And this ax, the wild trees adds us to the hut.
  Thus creating the Smith, all of which is to create another.
  Where fragrant aufgeworfne soil seed drinks
  And yellow grains of sickle against then swells,
  Where between strains in the quiet shy wild The arrow
  strikes hinschwirrt and fatally in the neck, Where hard
  hooves of horses roars staubaufwirbelnd And rapid
  roll wheels between town and city, Where the mighty
  rattling, the armed men The high values ​​masculinity
  songs revealed: As I continued more and containing
  wound according to the World With strong traces
  of my Tuen because it is efficient.

     

(= Break .=)

THE WOMAN

Centaurs I see a close, yet youth, God gave
me a nice translucent, albeit half an animal, And out of the grove,
along the shore, her trot.

  
  
  THE CENTAUR

     (= A spear in his hand, he holds out the Smith =)

  
  I find the cure here stumpfgewordnen spears And new head of the geschwungnen
force?

Proclaim!

  

THE SMITH

  
  Whether your like well, I never saw yourself.

                                            
  THE CENTAUR
  
  For the first time I drew the run After your village
  need, you know.

  THE SMITH
  
  It aims to be remedied in short. However, tell You, if
  you like you deserve the gratitude of the woman
  From strange wonders that you probably saw what Hither not a customer
enters, if a traveler does not.

     
     

THE WOMAN

  
  I'll rich the first full hose: it is Filled
  with cool, sour apple wine, Because of others are
  not. The next quenches thirst Well as far
  from here you bessre shell With heißerm juice
  a fairer woman than I am.
  
  (= She has the wine from the hose into an earthen
  goblet cast, which he slowly sips .=)
  
  THE CENTAUR
  
  The public roads I did not draw and avoided The port places vielvermengendes
throng, Where one finds easily colored by navigators in March The
barren heaths, I chose the day's journey, Flamingos and black bulls
only interfere, And stamped at night then the heather on the nose
The hyacinthine darkness above me.

Sometimes I was wandering past a grove, Where, willing to eigensinnger
fleeting pleasure, From a flock of naiads me one joined for a route
path, which I then At a young satyr in turn, lost The syrinxblasend,
where the road was alluring.

  

  THE WOMAN
  

Unspeakably irritating me think this is unchained.

  

  THE SMITH
  
  The Waldgebornen do not know shame and loyalty;
  The first demand preserve the house and
  teaches.
  
  THE WOMAN

  Ward you to listen to the flute of Pan?

Say!

  

THE CENTAUR

In a quiet Kesseltal was brought it to me.

  Since surging to the sultry evening wind down From
  the edge of the mysterious rocks darkened, So deeply
  upsetting as united urge Of all the depth, which
  pierce the soul ever When I'd fly my torn away in the fluidized me
By a thousand times through various drunkenness.

  
  THE SMITH
  
  Let rather be banned without talking!
  
  THE WOMAN

  Let all the same, what stimulates the soul
  more beautiful?
  
  THE SMITH
  
  Life itself yielding the higher heart beat, Like
  ripe fruit from the branches positively solves. And
  not to other showers we were born, When we
  breathe the fate of our life wave.
  
  THE CENTAUR
  
  So there was the wonderful art to you unknown, The
  gods of practice: man among men, At other times, measure
  up in Sturmeshauch, And a dolphin splashing in the
  wet again And ätherkreisend suck like eagles?

     You know, I think, but little of the world, my friend.

  
  THE SMITH
  
  All I know, knowing my circle Boundless longing not, nor do I anxious
The flood of fleeting bales in the hollow of his hand.

The brook that rocked your cradle of learning, recognize Neighboring
tree that matures to you the fruits in the sun And down pours fragrant
filled warm shade, The cool green grass, it was your foot as a child.

  The old parents were, quietly freezing, And the
  mistress was as fragrant swelled to The violets,
  nestling under her soles, The house can
  understand where you live and shall die, And then,
  one acting realize yourself respectfully, On these
  you have more than you can grasp - The hiking
  lovers, I hold him no longer, but The last smoothing still demand,
the file is missing, I think they create and own the last remaining.

  

(= He goes into the house .=)

THE WOMAN

You will probably never
be the way back to this place.

  Hinstampfend by hyacinthine night, intoxicated, Forget my you on
the way, I fear, soon, The thee, I fear, can not forget so soon.

  

THE CENTAUR

You are wrong; damn about you to divorce, would be When
the grid was beating roar behind me From all love dufterfülltem garden.

  But you come, I think, with my companion, I have carried
  on such a high charm as prey, poured out like never high
  Aphrodite, The quickening, tide of the sea and wild.

     
     
     THE WOMAN
     
     How could I husband, house and child leave here?
     
     THE CENTAUR
     
     What do you care long, what did you forget?
     
     THE WOMAN
     
     He comes back, and vanished quickly is the dream!

  THE CENTAUR
  
  By no means, but as pleasure and way more open.
  With fixed fingers and clutch at me cross
  into curls up, On the back
  rest, arm and neck to me!
  
  (= You jumped onto his back, and
  he rushes screaming hell down to the
  river, the child starts and stops
  in miserable Wines. The Smith
  steps out of the house. Plane
  crashes, the Centaur in the surging
  waters of the River. His bronze
  Upper body and the shape of the
  woman stand out sharply on
  the evening water gilded surface.
  The Smith is aware of it; in
  his hand the spear of the centaurs,
  he runs down to the shore
  and centrifuged, prevented far,
  the spear, the shaft with a trembling
  put a moment in the back
  of the woman remains to this with a
  piercing cry of the curls of the
  centaur and lets go with arms
  extended backwards into the
  water falls. The Centaur begins
  the dying in his arms raised
  high, and with it downstream, the
  other swim towards the shore
  .=)
  
  PROLOGUE AND FUNERAL SPEECH
  
  PROLOGUE TO THE BOOK> ANATOL
  <
  
  High grid, yew hedges, Wappen never
  gilded, Sphinxes, shining
  through the thicket ...
  ... Creaking open the gates. - With
  sleepy cascade Tritons and sleepy. Rococo
  dusty, and lovely, Look ... the Vienna
  of Canaletto, Vienna of seventeen
  hundred and sixty ... ... Green,
  brown, quiet ponds, Smooth
  and edged marble-white, In the
  mirror image of the mermaids Play
  Gold and silver fish ... On the
  lawn stemmed Lie same delicate
  shade Slim oleander strains;
  Branches curve up to the dome,
  Branches tend to be niche For the stiff lovers, Heroines and heroes
... Three dolphins Murmurs Surges in a shell pool ... Fragrant chestnut
blossoms Slide buzz, low bright And drown in the pool ... ... Behind
a Taxusmauer Shades of violins, clarinets, And they seem to the graceful
to emanate from cupids The rings sit on the ramp, Fiddling, winding
garlands, Even surrounded by flowers colorful The flow of marble vases:
Gold lacquer and jasmine and lilac ... ... On the ramp between them
Sit and coquettish women, Violette Monsignori ... And in the grass
at her feet And on cushions on the steps Cavaliers and Abbati ...
Andre lift other women From the perfumed litters ... ... Rays of light
through the branches, Flickering on the blond head, Appear on the
colorful cushions, Glide over grass and gravel, Glide over the scaffolding,
We opened slightly.

  Wine climbs and winds up And
  covered the light beams, And
  in between lush colors Flapping
  carpet and wallpaper, Pastoral
  scenes, woven boldly, Petite designed
  by Watteau ...
  
  An arbor instead of the stage,
  Summer sun instead of bulbs,
  So we play at the theater Play
  our own pieces, Early
  Matured and tender and sad, The
  comedy of the soul, Of our feeling
  today and yesterday, Evil things
  pretty formula Smooth words, colorful
  pictures, Half, secret feelings,
  Agonieen, episodes ... Some
  hear, not all ... Some dream, some
  laugh Some people eat ice
  cream ... and some Speak very gallant things ... ... Carnations are
swaying in the wind, Stemmed, white carnations, Like a swarm of white
butterflies, And a lapdog Bark in wonder at a peacock.

  
  SIMILAR TO A BOOK ART
  
  Take heed to worm! The time is strange And she
  has odd children: Us! Who is too much
    in love with the sweet, Tolerate us, because
    our nature is harsh, And our conversation strange.
    > Strike on a small stage in the room, Because
    the daughter wants to play house theater
    < Do you think it will come as little
    muse, With open hair, and the bare arms
    Is a light golden lyre lie? Do you think
    as a shepherdess, a white lamb The blue silk
    ribbon and on the lips A smile, sweet and
    cheap as the rhymes In Schaefer games? On! and beyond!
    Go away, I pray you, if you expect that! You can
    not stand us, we are different! We have
    the life we ​​live, A game made, and our truth
    slips confused with our comedy As
    a juggler hollow cup - The more you hinseht,
    cheated more! We give little pieces of our
    self- For doll clothes. As the true words
    - (Which depend on smiles or tears Same dew
    on a shrub with rough leaves) To frighten,
    when they recognize themselves, In this game intertwined,
    half made-up, Half still equal to itself, and
    so alienated The great innocence they had before!
    Was ever played such a tangled game? It steals
    us from ourselves and is not sweet Such as
  dancing and singing on the water, And yet
  it is the richest in seduction Of all the games that
  we know kids. We are children of this
  strange time What do you want? So we are once
  But you really want to hear such things Stay
  still! We will not disturb us.
    
    THE MEMORY OF THE ACTOR Mitterwurzer
    

He losch at once like this like a light.

  We all wore by a flash The reflection of
  a pallor on his face.
  

  He fell: then fell down all the dolls,
  In whose veins his life blood Was
  poured, she quietly died And where he
  lay, lay a pile of corpses, Wüst stretched:
  the knee by a drunk Pressed into a king Aug,
  Don Philip With Caliban as a nightmare about
  his neck, And every dead
  

  Since we knew who we were dead: The magician,
  the great, great entertainers! And we emerged
  from the houses And began to talk to
  who he was. But who he was and who
  he was not?

  
  He crawled from one larva to another, Jumped
  out of the Father in the Son of body And exchanged as garments the
figures.

  
  
  With swords, which he did revolve so fast
  That no one saw her sparkling blade, Blow
  himself to pieces: was Jago Perhaps
  the one and the other half Was a sweet fool
  or the dreamer. His whole body was
  like the magic veil Living in the folds
  of all things: He took animals out of himself:
  The sheep, the lion, a stupid devil And a terrible,
  and and those And you and me. His whole body was
  burning, Of inward fate through and through
  Such as coal burning, and he lived in
  it And looked at us, who live in houses, With
  that strange look impenetrable The salamander,
  which lives in the fire.

  
  He was a wild king. Around the hips Did
  he like colorful shells strung The truth
  and the lie of us all. In his eyes
  flew our dreams Over, as of flocks of
  wild birds The reflection in deep water.

  
  
  There he joined her on this very spot,
  Where do I stand now, and as in conch
  The noise of the sea is captured That
  was in him the voice of all life: He was great.
  He was the whole forest, He was the
  country that run through the streets. With
  eyes like the children we were And saw
  him up as on the slopes Of a large mountain: in his mouth Was a bay,
the sea surged inside.

  
  
  For in him was something that many doors
  Unlocked and flew over many areas:
  Violence to life, this was in him. And
  about him was the death force! Blew out
  the eyes, the inner, core Was covered
  with mysterious characters, Strangled in
  his throat a thousand voices And killed the body, the limb from limb
Was loaded with ungebornem life.

  
  
  Here he stood. When is a man who resembles
  him? A mind that we the labyrinth of the breast,
  Populated with comprehensible figures Opens
  up anew to look like? He gave us, we could
  not hold them And now staring at his name sound Down the abyss that
devoured us.

  
  ON THE DEATH OF ACTOR HERMANN MÜLLER
  

  This house and say we are an art The pain
  makes any deep refreshing Tasty and even
  death.
  
  And he whom we call ourselves the soul; He was
  so strong! His body was so gifted, to transform
  itself, it seemed, no power Would be
  able to catch him! What a character!
  He made clear, was the White From his eye the deepest
  secrecy, Who slept in it, betrayed, breathed
  The soul of the imaginary creatures As smoke
  and drove them through the pores From his body
  back to light. He created over and
  over, there being swollen Forth, barely human,
  but so vivid - The eye she said yes,
  if never before It looked like: only a blink,
  A breath testified that they were And even from
  the womb of the earth steamed! And people!
  Close your eyes think back,! Soon lush bodies,
  just inside the angle One last glimmer of Augsburg
  glost soul Soon souls around him, only for
  duty A transparent housing, building up the
  body,: Common people, gloomy people, kings, People
  laugh, people to shudder - He created over
  and over: because they stood. But when the game went
  out and the curtain Silent as a made
  eyelid presented the erstorbne magic
  cave And he went out, there was a stage
  Sun set before him like a forever Sleepless
  aufgerißnes Aug, it No curtain ever
  sinks pity: The terrible reality stage.
  As were all the versatility to went by
  him, and his poor soul Hüllenlos and
  looked quite childish eyes. Since
  he was in a relentless game Entangled,
  ignorant as it took place; Each step
  is a tiefrer than the previous And relentlessly
  every dumb sign: The face of the night was with
  the federal government, The wind at the
  collar, the gentle spring breeze, And all
  = against = him! Not the common, The delicate
  souls, the dark fate Pitfalls of this kind
  came Then one day, As he rose, and his tortured
  mind Was filled with anticipation and with
  a dream, And solid handle, like a heavy
  coat, Threw it off and spent the night
  life No more than dust on his jacket hem, The
  now crumbling in no figures.
  
  Give him think.

  Let venerable music Guesses before
  you call him, his skill And let me be silent,
  because this is the limit Where I respect the word
  breaks in the mouth.

  VERSE FOR THE MEMORY OF actor Josef Kainz

O
  if I had his voice, here it around To
  complain! His royal dignity, With my
  application to stand before you! Then
  this would truly hour big And glory and
  kingship to me, and more As a funeral,
  for the doings of the kings Is glory and
  exultation mixed, Even when they complain and begehn a funerary feast.

O's

  voice that they are The wings were
  beating! - Where do they sounded? Where
  does this urge in our ears? Who said With
  such a tongue? What prince and Demon Said
  to us there? Those who spoke of these boards Down?
  Who was talking out of his body The
  young man Romeo who from the womb Of
  the unfortunate Richard Plantagenet Or
  Tasso? Who? A non-modified
  in many transformations, Niebezauberter a
  charming, An unmoved, which we
  did, one who He was far off when we thought
  he was close, A stranger to all strangers,
  Lonely on all lonely, The messenger of
  all messengers, nameless And
  a nameless messenger Lord.
  

  He is past us. His soul Was too quick
  mind, and His eye was like too much
  the AUG of the bird. This house has had it -
  but it was him? We have had him - he was there,
  As our own youth deleted us Cruel and
  resplendent as the waters fall.
  

  O restless! O secret obvious Mystery
  of human nature! O being Who wast thou?
  O wandering! O stranger! O night talks loneliness
  With your highly random comrades!
  O staring deep heart's loneliness! O restless
  spirit! Mind without sleeping! O Spirit!
  O voice! Wonderful Light! As you ran
  along, white light, and round Into the
  darkness from the words you Palaces Hinbautest,
  in it for a heartbeat period We stayed
  with you - voice we never be forgotten - oh
  fate - o End - Mystery of life! Dark Death!

Oh,
  how the life around him and never-level It
  was all caught up in mystery Voluptuous transformation!

  As he was = =! As king he was stopped!
  How does he narrow, Like a boy, was = =!
  O little hand Full strength, O little head
  on his shoulders, O bird-like eye, which scorned
  Young or old to be sleepless eye, O AUG of
  the hawk, who is also from the sun The views reflected
  not, O daring in August, The abyss has
  both measured Of life and of death - Aug
  des = messenger =! O messenger of all messengers,
  spirit! You spirit! Your stay with us was a
  scorn, Fort wills! Hurried away! Busted!

I
  do not complain about you. I now know who you
  were, Actor without a mask you, spiritualize
  You are high, and where my mind up Does not
  see, there you circle, the same hawk, The indestructible, and catches
hold in The mirror, which throws down a white light, White as the
light of the stars: this light Messenger and support you forever,
And when the Floating-indestructible We remember the spirit that you
are.

  
  
  O voice! Soul! busted!
  
  TO A DEAD CELEBRATION FOR ARNOLD Böcklin

(=
  In the last bars of the symphony comes to the
  prologue, his Torchbearers behind him. - The
  prologue is a young man, he is Venetian
  dressed all in black, as a mourner .=)

So
  hush, music!

  Now the scene mine And I want to complain, because for me it is too!

From this flows the times of youth juice In me, and he, the statue
looks at me, Was my soul so dear friend!

     And this very good I have needed Because darkness is much in this
     time And like the swan, a blissful floating animal Naiad dripping
     from the hands of white Kisses his food, so I turned myself In dark
hours on his hands To my soul food: deep dream.

  I Schmück your image with branch and blossom
  only? And you did me the picture of the world
  adorned And all the loveliness of flowering
  branches With such excessive splendor, That I
  am drunk threw to the ground And shouting
  felt her her dress I dropped her, the
  luminous nature! Hear me, my friend! I do
  not want heralds Send, that they scream your name
  In the four winds, as if dying king,
  A king can be the heir to his Reif And a
  grave stone of his name sound. But
  you were such a great magician, Your Visible
  went away, but I do not know, What there and not
  there all of you remains, Continue living with
  secret violence To dark eye from the
  flood return On the shore stands -
  or his hairy ear Behind the ivy listening
  stretched, therefore I will Never believe
  that I am somewhere alone, Where trees
  or flowers, and even Only silent rocks and little
  clouds are under the heaven: that an easy
  thing, Transparent like Ariel to me in the
  back Hingaukelt, because I know that
  mysterious Was between you and some creature
  A collar attached, yes! and spring Au, See,
  she laughed so you, like a woman The smiles at
  which they were in the night!
  
  I says to sue you, and my mouth Swell of drunken
  and joyful words: Drum behooves me now
  no longer here to stand. I want
                                  to push the bar
  three times to the ground And this tent filled
  with dream figures.
   A great meeting was held for
consultation and the people were publicly invited. Everyone declared a church should be organized.
The bishop was in favor of this, and at the proper time one hundred and eighteen persons presented
themselves as candidates for confirmation. Up to this time what was known as Monastery was
simply a scientific and theological seminary. Its faculty was composed of educated clergymen.
It was a college with a bishop as president, supported by the church at large and the products
of the farm, having a board of trustees to hold and manage the estate according to the laws
of the commonwealth. Now it was to become an organized parish church and, in addition, the
center of a diocese. The bishop was to assume the duties of the rector, with the members of
the faculty as his assistants, and the trustees were incorporated as the "Board of Trustees
of Monastery Church and College," according to law. This was a new regime for Bishop Albertson,
who, years before, had been rector of a small parish in Virginia. Even at that time he was
a rigid churchman and a profound scholar, and because of these and other qualifications he
had unexpectedly been elevated to the episcopal office. Soon after this well-merited promotion
he had been earnestly requested to take this young seminary under his care and superintendence,
and had cheerfully accepted this added responsibility. From that time he had made Monastery
his home and the headquarters of his diocese. It continued to be "a school of the prophets"
during ten years, when it was granted a university charter and it became a school of classics
as well as theology. No one ever felt disappointed at this appointment of Bishop Albertson
to the presidency of the institution, which under his care had grown from a small seminary
with seventeen students to its present proportions and standing in the state. Now there were
seventy-two theological students and two hundred and forty-five in the classical and scientific
courses. This had been done under the fostering care and superintendency of the present incumbent.
This institution had been simply a high-grade school of classics and theology, principally
the latter. Experimental religion had but a small place in its curriculum or life. "Thou shalt
not" of the Old Testament was strictly taught and demanded of all. But "Thou shalt" of the
New Testament was rarely thought of, much less practiced. So apparent was this that critical
observers used to say of it: "Here is where they have neither religion nor politics." And this
local adage was literally true. The highest morality was practiced and demanded, but the dogmas
which insisted upon the regeneration of the heart and life were very sparingly taught. Morality
in its highest life was demanded of all, but the inner life was left to take care of itself.

But now, something had happened; here was a change. Even the organ spoke with a new voice;
the prayer book meant more than it had in the past--everything spoke with a new tongue. Here
was an amount of emotion that was new and strange, and the responses in the services were more
prompt and fervent. The bishop ceased to read his sermons and talked as one who had authority.
His voice was more distinct. The audiences heard him as never before. Several of the professors
who had always been spoken of as unattractive and uninteresting became exactly the reverse.
Young men were found praying in their rooms. In one of them the bishop was heard leading a
score of young men in prayer. Old-fashioned and old-time hymns were sung, fervent responses
were heard, and scores of persons from roundabout professed to have found Christ. During six
weeks this wonderful influence was felt. It extended for miles throughout the country. During
that time four hundred persons took upon themselves the obligations of the Christian profession
and Monastery Church became a great power through the county.

Mr. Keyes, the organist, had died in the hospital, and Carl had been appointed in his place
as organist and musical director. He very soon organized a choir of forty persons. And this
was not all that added responsibility to this young man's life. The bishop, realizing the growing
responsibilities of his work, appointed him his private secretary, which necessarily took him
away from all the work on the farm; but even this did not separate him from the farmhouse.
He continued to sleep there in "Carl and Tom's room," and, excepting during school hours, wherever
you found Carl Tom was not far away.

The grand old man, Dr. George Thorndyke, who gave three hundred acres of land for a "school
for prophets," little dreamed that his gift was to develop to such proportions, and become,
also, a great influential church, a great center of religious influence, whose power would
be felt miles around.

But the college chapel was neither fit nor large enough for the demands which were now pressing
upon it. They must have a building capacious and suitable in which to worship. And now the
true character of the great revival was seen in the prompt responses of the people; more generous
were they than the ancient people who built the temple, and in the course of a few months a
large and beautiful church was erected capable of seating twelve hundred people. As this building
neared completion the building committee began to prepare for its dedication. The chief clergyman
to be invited was an old friend and classmate of Bishop Albertson--Bishop McLaren, of Durham,
England. There was to be, of course, select music; the singing must not be inferior to that
which Bishop McLaren listened to in his cathedral home. Carl was told that the Durham singers
were known throughout the kingdom as superb, and he must do his best in drilling his choir.

But there seemed to be, if not a lack of interest, at least a lack of energy. For many weeks
before the time Carl assembled the choir for special rehearsal at least twice a week. And while
progress was made, yet there seemed to be a lack of enthusiasm in both singers and organist.
The cause of this was soon apparent. Carl was ill; and the day that the president went to New
York to meet his friend, Carl was attacked with a raging fever. It was seen very quickly that
the young man ought to have given up much sooner and the best medical aid was hastily summoned.
Of course a substitute must be provided, and the committee succeeded in securing the services
of Professor Schuets, from New York, to have charge of the organ and music during the dedicatory
services. When the day (the Sabbath) for the great service came Carl lay in his bed delirious
with typhoid fever. Nancy Sparrow was his faithful nurse, while Tom was hands and feet to his
mother. It was really pathetic to see the little fellow as he sat near the bed so vigilant
and anxious in his desire to be of service. And when the doctor came, how his great blue eyes
watched his every movement! Then he would waylay the doctor as he left the house, asking if
Carl were not improving, and if he would not be up in a few days. But the physician did not
dare encourage the boy. It was soon observed that every morning and evening, immediately after
the doctor's visits, Tom walked over to the office in the warehouse, where Giles more than
once found him engaged in earnest prayer for Carl's recovery.

"I tell you, Mrs. Sparrow," said Giles on one of these occasions, "Carl will get well. Tom
talked to God today, and I don't believe that God will refuse the little fellow what he wants."

It was on one of those visits that Billy, who was in the root cellar under the warehouse, heard
the lad's footsteps and, slipping upstairs, listened to the prayer of his boy. These were his
words: "Dear Father in heaven, maybe you are tired of hearing me ask you for the same thing
so many times, but there is nothing else that I want; but I do want Carl. I would not have
to ask my earthly father so often, if he could possibly do it; but he isn't able. You are able
and, somehow, I can't understand why you don't. Father and mother and I all love Carl; he is
one of us; and what would the bishop do without him? And now, dear Father, I'm going back to
the house to see if he isn't better. I know you will do it. Amen."

The two prelates sat in the resident bishop's study. "There is a sample of my secretary's work,"
said Bishop Albertson, as he handed an account book to his friend, "and it is as accurate as
it is beautiful."

Bishop McLaren started when his eyes fell upon the ledger. After a moment's hesitancy he remarked:
"Never but in one instance have I seen as fine work. That was the writing of my own dear boy;
those capitals are just like his. Ah, well."

On the afternoon of the Sabbath the two bishops strolled across the park, and almost unconsciously
found themselves in front of the farmhouse. Little Tom sat on the front steps with a sad countenance;
looking up he recognized Bishop Albertson standing before him.

"Well, Tom, how is Carl today?" asked the bishop.

"O, Bishop, he is very bad. He talks and talks, and they don't know what he means. He talks
about his father and mother, and nobody knows where they live. He never told anybody. But I'm
praying for him, Bishop, and I know he won't die."

"Can we go up and see him?" asked Bishop Albertson, and without waiting for an answer, he proceeded
up the back stairs, but the English visitor remained below.

When Bishop Albertson entered the room he found Nancy bathing the sick youth's brow. She saluted
the visitor with great respect. Carl lay quite still with his face toward the wall. Laying
her hand upon his brow, Nancy said: "Carl, dear, here's the bishop come over to see you."

The sick man murmured: "No, no, he will never come to see me, but mother would if she knew."

The bishop in low, quiet tones said: "Carl, where is your father? We will let him know how
ill you are, and I know he will come to you."

In still weaker accents the delirious youth went on: "No, no, don't tell him; he thinks I'm
dead; better so."

At this moment Dr. King, making his second call for the day, stepped into the room, and at
once in low but emphatic tones remarked: "Mrs. Sparrow, this will not do. Our patient must
be kept quiet; otherwise more harm can be done in a half hour than can be overcome in a week.
I will send a nurse tonight, and with skillful nursing we will, if possible, save the patient."

The bishop took the hint and quietly descended to the parlor, where he found his colleague
awaiting him with his head resting upon both hands. Silently they wended their way to the bishop's
study. It lacked about an hour to the time of evening service.

The visiting clergyman, addressing his host said: "Bishop Albertson, I think I have never told
you the particulars of my great affliction. The illness of your secretary, and seeing the specimen
of his penmanship, brings back to my recollection the darkest providence that has ever come
into my life."

"No, Bishop," said his brother minister, kindly, "you have not. But sorrow passes few of us
by in this world. We all suffer, some grievously. I did not suspect, however, that such had
been your lot."

"Yes," was the reply, after a moment's silence, "mine has been a heavy cross. A little more
than a year ago my son, just entering upon the summer vacation, went off with two friends on
a yachting trip. They were near Land's End when a hurricane struck and wrecked the boat; they
were all lost, the yacht never having been seen again; and once this afternoon, when the door
of your secretary's room was opened for a moment, I heard his delirious cry, and his voice
sounded strangely like that of my own lost boy. Possibly, I, too, should have gone up to see
him, but after that I could not--I could not." He paused and then added: "O, it was my profoundest
wish that Eddie might some day take my place, and be the comfort of my old age."

That evening's sermon will never be forgotten by the large congregation which came to hear
the eminent English divine. "Thou destroyest the hopes of man" was the text.

Two days later the Bishop of Durham returned to his home, and although he had enjoyed seeing
the classmate of his early years, the affliction in Bishop Albertson's home had reminded him
of his own sad loss, so that when he arrived at Durham he felt prostrated by the renewal of
his bitter bereavement.

CHAPTER IV

SLOW CONVALESCENCE

The new nurse would not permit even Tom to enter the sick man's room, so he waylaid the doctor
at every visit, and, stern as he was, that professional gentleman was compelled through sheer
sympathy to speak as encouragingly as possible to the lad.

Every morning Tom brought from the garden a handful of flowers and, tapping gently at the sick
man's door, handed them to the nurse, who, giving him a more hopeful word concerning the patient,
would send him with light heart downstairs to his mother to report the good news. One morning
the boy brought a bunch of roses and violets, and gave them to Enoch, the nurse, who received
them with greater cordiality than usual, remarking as he accepted the flowers: "Mr. Carl is
much better. You shall see him tomorrow."

The joyous-hearted boy bounded downstairs and, throwing his arms around his mother's neck,
repeated the words of the nurse. Enoch met Tom in the hall next day. The lad was dressed in
his best clothes and was nervously impatient. "Now Tom," said Enoch, "promise me that you will
not talk, and you must not cry, and, remember, you can only stay ten minutes."

"All right! I'll promise anything, only let me see my Carl."

But Enoch's patience was tried at the very start. Tom tiptoed into the room, and as he saw
the pale smiling face of Carl and heard his welcome he threw his arms around the sick man's
neck, and sobbed through his tears: "Carl, my Carl, you're nearly well, aren't you?"

Enoch, standing near the bed, placed his finger upon his lips, but Tom did not recognize his
admonition, and kept on giving expression to his happiness. "Carl," said he, "God has given
you back to us. I told mother that he would, and he has."

The pleasure of Bishop McLaren's visit was plainly lessened by the illness of the young secretary.
The family of his host were all anxious, and the members of the faculty were visibly affected.
Even the servants about the place felt concern for the young secretary and whispered many exaggerated
stories concerning the case. But the crisis had been passed, and Carl began to improve. After
a slow recovery he took up his accustomed duties, and church and school work fell back into
its old routine. But six weeks of typhoid fever had greatly emaciated the young secretary.
The buoyancy and brightness seemed to have left him. He had been fond of athletic sports, but
now he apparently cared nothing for them. With Tom he would walk over to the exercise grounds
and, seated in a chair, would watch the students in their games, seldom speaking and never elated.

The kindly bishop watched the young man closely and, after much serious thought, wrote to his
personal friend, Dr. Marmion, of New York, inviting him to the Monastery to take a day or two
of rest. Nancy exhausted her ingenuity to tempt and increase his appetite, but nothing served
to help him, and what made matters worse, he seemed to have no desire to improve. True, he
was just as exact and faithful in the discharge of his official duties, and in the correspondence,
which was without dictation, there was quite as much courtesy, but it all lacked that freshness
that had marked the past. The organ gave forth notes just as harmonious and perfect, but the
music lacked the brilliancy and uplifting power that had hitherto characterized it. Indeed,
his youthfulness seemed to have departed, and maturity, if not old age, taken its place. Previously
Carl's full and joyous laugh had attracted scores toward him; now, however, a quiet smile was
frequently the only indication that he was pleased, and even a sprinkling of gray hair was
here and there seen among the curly brown locks. Once it had been a trick of his to leap from
the ground to the back of Allick, Sparrow's tallest horse, but he now declined mounting a horse
at all. The strong and springy step was gone and his feet shuffled like those of a very old man.

One day the bishop entered the office where Carl was at work, accompanied by a plain-looking
man, possibly forty years of age. He was of medium stature, with broad and prominent brow,
great brown eyes, and prominent nose. But the most significant and impressive feature of the
man's face was his eyes--large, brown, and possessed of that peculiar quality which made them
grow luminous when he was much interested and almost frightful when excited. He was introduced
to Carl as Mr. Marmion, from New York. As Carl had no particular interest in the New York gentleman,
after a few words of commonplaces he turned away and resumed his work; but the bishop having
slipped out, the stranger seemed to call for the courtesy of the secretary.

"Take that easy chair, Mr. Marmion," said Carl. "Bishop Albertson will no doubt return presently."

"Bishop Albertson tells me that you are just recovering from a severe illness, Mr. Edwards,"
said Mr. Marmion, as he sat down in the comfortable chair.

"Yes, I have been quite ill with typhoid fever," was the reply.

"Are you sleeping and eating well?"

"No, not by any means. If I am gaining at all, it is a very slow gain. I have almost an aversion
to food, and every exertion is a task."

"Ah, that ought not to be," said the gentleman. "You are surely not gaining if you can neither
eat nor sleep. Perhaps your liver is not right. What is the doctor giving you?" Carl handed
him the bottle containing the medicine, which he uncorked and after touching the liquid to
his tongue remarked: "It seems to be the right stuff. I'm something of a doctor, myself, and
I must help to shake up that liver. Who is your doctor?"

"Dr. King."

"Ah, yes--Hiram King. I know him."

The seemingly mere friendly interest of the doctor aroused in Carl no suspicion that he was
the direct object of his visit, and that the conversation really constituted a diagnosis of
his case.

After a short silence, Dr. Marmion incidentally, seemingly, asked: "You have no financial difficulties
have you?"

"No, doctor," was the prompt reply. "Bishop Albertson allows me a very generous salary, and
I have few demands."

"You have never been in the habit of dissipating, I am sure?"

"No, indeed; this is no place for dissipation, and before coming here, I was in school, where
such a practice would have been impossible. I am as regular in my habits as when a boy in my
father's house in England."

"Oh! Ah! You are an Englishman. From what part of England are you?"

"The north of England," was the short reply.

"Mr. Edwards, excuse me, but have you any great trouble upon your heart? That sometimes causes
trouble, an actual physical disturbance, you know."

The young man, who up to this time had evinced no particular interest in the conversation,
now hesitated, so much so, in fact, that the doctor repeated his question, adding: "There is
but little prospect of helping the body, if there is a secret enemy affecting the heart and
mind. This will always create trouble in the digestive organs."

To these words Carl replied somewhat nervously: "I suppose that, like most young men, I have
regrets concerning my earlier life. There are some things that I am sorry for having done,
and other duties that I have neglected, for which delinquencies I am sorry."

So entirely informal had been the discussion that Carl still did not suspect that he had been
under examination. And the sagacious doctor having gained some information, quite as much,
indeed, as he had expected in the first interview, abstained from pushing the matter for the
present, and adroitly changed the subject; but while he continued to converse easily with the
young man, he felt assured that he was on the right track. And when, later, he was telling
the bishop about it, he declared that he felt sure it was a disturbed mind and uneasy conscience,
more than any particular functional disorder, that was robbing the young man of his vitality.
But after two days had passed, and he had taken advantage of every opportunity, he concluded
that he would take the midnight boat for New York, his mission having been fruitless.

CHAPTER V

A CLUE

Two men sat in a secluded room on a quiet street in London. To look at the building from the
street it would have been taken for a modest dwelling house. The room they occupied was spacious,
furnished with several desks and tables and lounge and easy chairs. One of the men was large
and white-haired, upon whose vest a golden star sparkled. But for this badge of authority he
would have passed merely for a well-dressed business man. The other was a younger man, possibly
not more than thirty years old. How
  it came back! That I once already In earlier
  nights devoted entirely

  
  The Moon and too much beloved valley
  Where apart on the empty slopes The trees
  were emaciated and in between The lowly little clouds of mist were

And
through the silence towards the ever-fresh And always strange silver-white
water The river could keep hissing - as it came back!

  
  
  How it came back!

  For all these things And her beauty - who was
  infertile - I gave my all in great longing, As
  now for the contemplation of your hair And
  between your eyelids, this gloss!
  

SECRET WORLD

  
  The deep well do it well, Once all
  were deep and silent, And everyone knew drum.

  
  
  Like magic words nachgelallt And did not understand the reason It
now goes from mouth to mouth.

  
  
  The deep well know it; In the bent, the concept of man, Understood
it and then lost.

  
  
  And talking 'mad and sang a song - bends on the dark mirror Once a
child is removed.

  
  
  And grows and knows nothing of itself And if a woman who loves a And
- how wonderful love is!

  
  
  How love is deep customer! - As is to things, suspected dull, In her
kisses reminded deep ...

In our words, it is in there, Shall enter
the beggar walk the gravel, Of a precious stone dungeon.

  
  
  The deep well do it well, Once, however, knew all the drum, Now the
circle jerks around a dream.

  
  
  BALLAD OF THE OUTER LIFE

  And children grow up with deep eyes, They
  know nothing about it, grow up and die, And all
  the people go their ways.

  
  And sweet fruit from the bitter And fall
  at night, like dead birds And lie a few days and spoil.

  
  
  And ever the wind blows, and again We hear and speak many words And
feel joy and fatigue of the limbs.

  
  
  And roads run through the grass, and places If here and there, full
of torches, trees, ponds, And threatening, and dead, wither ...

Why
this structured? and equal Each other before? and are innumerable?

  Why laughter, tears or disease?
  
  What good to us, and all these games, The great and eternal but we
are lonely And wander seek any goals?

  
  
  What use is it like to have seen many?

  And yet he says much of the> evening, says,
  " A word from sorrow and grave thought
  

  How heavy honey from the honeycomb hollow.

  
  NOX PORTENTIS gravida
  
  In tall trees is a fog game And three of
  the beautiful stars twinkle close: The hyacinths
  from the dark earth Remember that this
  will happen What probably happened earlier
  and more often: That Hermes and the
  two Dioscuri, Sparkling high spirits before
  the airy footsteps The wind-borne Graces switch
  And playing with the cruelty of hunting, You scare from the treetops,
so the waves Driving near the river until it meets.

  
  
  The poet has his way somewhere else,
  And looking through the eyes of the Medusa If
  he looks the other way superior pale
  field Immediately removed and do not know
  what it's like And it adds to other such
  places, Where his soul as a child moved,
  Has an existence of any guarantee period In Adler
  abgestorbner air and rest.

  There it spreads its shadows and the bills
  Things out of the earth, and precious stones.
  
  
  The third part of the sky but does The cloud
  of such a death, blackness, How they obtained
  the soul of him who By night, the way is
  looking at a candle: The cloud that lasted
  the next morning, With thousands of thunder
  storms And blue light as strong as close
  to sun And horrible fall of hot stones,
  The island haunt, where the tremor Flowering
  had the most wonderful joys; Against tremendous
  anxiety until orbenes wines The purchase price
  was, that in troubled gardens Who never saw themselves,
  for life is found And drunk, dying, life
  is not desirable; That God sprang from the air and ground bands Orphaned
children equally glowing Prophet And all the souls blossomed as the
stars.

  
  HAPPY HOUSE
  
  sang at an open balconies An old man playing
  organ to heaven, However on a threshing floor
  at his feet, The slim fought with the bearded
  grandson That by the pure stock of the
  oleander A shiver ran up: but a bird Still
  in full bloom the crown slip Flea and not
  wise gaze peered down.

  On the edge of the well-hewn but The young
  woman gave her child the breast.
  
  But the wanderer, the road is Along the walls
  around the antenna bent, Threw a glance behind
  him to the stranger And had in it - the same as that evening cloud
Entschwebend, on quiet river and forest - The wonderful image of peace
continued.

  
  EMBASSY
  
  I have considered myself that traveler
  on Only those may mean, since we talking
  The landscape before our eyes into a realm
  The modified soul; uphill because The
  shadows we got into the grove, Us as once
  embraced experiences, Since we are still
  on the separated fields The dream of life
  niegeahnter beings Yes its gone and found traces
  of drinking Above the pond and a moving
  interview, Even lower than arch reflecting
  the sky: I was intent on such days, And
  that, next to these three: to be healthy,
  On own body and life to rejoice And to think,
  wings, young eagle Only one avails: socialize
  with friends. So I want you to come and
  drink with me For those pitchers who are my heritage,
  Decorated with foliage and winged children,
  And I sit in the garden tower: Two
  young men guarding his door, In their
  heads with soft eye Half Turned
  away an enormous Skill stone look up that you are
  silent And see my landscape spread out: That
  maybe a verse from you to me Refined in future
  in solitude And here and there memory
  of you A shadow nests and dusk The
  road between dark tops of rolls And shadow-free
  paths in the air Rolln then like a distant
  golden thunder.
  

Triplets of evanescent

  I
  
  I still feel her breath on her cheeks: How can it be that these near
days Gone, gone forever, and completely over?

  
  
  This is a thing that no aussinnt full And far too horrible, but that
suit you: That all slides and vorüberrinnt

And that my own ego inhibited
by anything, Slipped over a small child I like a dumb dog scary and
strange.

  
  
  Then: I was a hundred years And my ancestors, in the shroud, related
to me are like my own hair,

One thing with me as my own hair.

  
  
  II

  

The hours! where we are on the bright blue Understand the ocean and
stare death So light and solemnly, and without fear,

As little girls,
but appearance, the pale, With big eyes, and freeze the always hinsehn
One evening in front of dumb

And know that life is now out of their
Flows over links with sleep still In trees' and grass, and dull smile
adorn

As a saint who shed their blood.

  
  
  III

  
  We are such stuff as dreams of, Dreams and
  broken as the eyes Like small children under the cherry trees,

From
the crown to run blaßgoldnen The full moon raises the big night.

  ... Otherwise appear on our dreams,
  
  Are there and live like a child who laughs No less great in the up
and down float As a full moon, woke up from tree crowns.

  

  The heart is open to her weaving, How ghostly hands
  in a locked room Are they in our lives
  and always have.

  
  And three are one: a man, a thing, a dream.

IV

Sometimes
  women come niegeliebte In the dream as a little girl in us And have
a look unspeakably touching

As if they were with us on distant paths
Once on an evening long gone, However, the tops of breathing move

And
scent and night falls and fear, And dark along the path of our route,
of, In the evening light, the silent lake resplendent

And sparkle,
mirrors our desire, a dream, And all the soft words, all floating
The evening air and the first stars twinkle

The sisterly souls tremble
and deep And sad and full Triumphgepränge Before deep idea that the
great life

Understand and his glory and strength.

  
  
  SOME BUT ...

  
  Some of course have to die down, Where
  the heavy oars of ships, Andre live up there at the wheel, Know the
flight of birds and the countries of the stars.

  

  Many lie with heavy limbs In the tangled
  roots of life, Others are addressed, the
  chairs When the Sibyl, the Queens, And they sit at home, Light head
and light hands.

  
  
  But a shadow is cast by those living In the other life over, And the
light are to the severe How tied to air and ground:

Forgotten peoples
weariness I can not dismiss from my eyelids, Still keep away from
the frightened soul Soundless fall also star.

  
  
  Many destinies weave next to mine.

  Confusion, she plays all existence. And my part is
  more than this life Lean flame or narrow
  lyre.

  
  A DREAM OF GREAT MAGIC
  

  Much as a royal pearl band And bold as young sea in the morning fragrance
That was a big dream - as I found him.

  
  Through open glass doors was the air. I slept
  in the pavilion to ebner earth And
  by four open doors was the air -

  
  And earlier were already harnessed horses
  Throughout an entire family and
  dog past my bed. But the gesture

The
  magician - the First, the Great
  - was At once between me and a wall: His proud nod, royal hair.

  
  
  And behind him, wall, and it was A wide
  chasm of splendor, dark sea And green mats behind his hand.

  
  
  He bent down and pulled her the depth. He bent
  down, and went his fingers In the bottom as if it were water.

  
  
  From the thin source of water but started
  Opals are huge in the hands And fell ringing again in rings.

  
  Then he threw himself with a slight swing
  of the loins - As only out of pride - the cliff next to; At his end,
I saw the power of gravity.

  
  
  In his eyes he was the rest By sleeping, but live births precious
stones.

  He sat down and said such a you
  
  For days, which seem to us completely over, That they came from mournful
and large: This pleased him to laugh and cry.

  
  
  He felt fantastic all human lot, Just as he felt his own limbs.

  He was not near and far, nothing small
  and large.
  

  And how deep below the earth cooled, The
  darkness of the depths penetrated upwards
  The night of the Laue from the tops of burrowed,

He enjoyed all
life big gear So much - that he was in great drunkenness Just as a
lion jumped over cliffs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  
  
  Cherub and lord is our spirit - Does not live in us, and the highest
stars He is the chair and leaves us orphaned:

But he is fire us in
the deepest cores - So I guessed, I found the dream there - And talk
to the fires that distance

And lives in me as I have in my hand.

  
  
  IN THE COUNTRY TO SING

  
  I
  

  Heard you not into it That music prowled the
  house? Night was heavy and without Bill,
  But the gently on a hard stone Was played and that was me.

  
  
  I could, I spoke of: > Do you love, my all thou < East broke out a
light Difficult day drove me home, And my mouth is back.

  
  
  II

  
  The sky was cloudy and heavy, We were lonely
  so much Are cut off! But that is no
  longer: Air flow to and fro; And the whole world in the midst Shines,
as if she were glassy.

  
  
  Stars were merged, My flicker and your cheeks, And they also know:
Strong and stronger their splendor; And we breathe with desire Lie
blessed as caught Feel a touch of the other.

  
  
  III

  

The beloved said: "I hold thee not, You swore me.

The people we should not hold Are not natives of the litter.

  
  
  Take off your street, my friend, Examination
  you country by country, In many
  beds rest of you, Many women take by the hand.

  
  
  Where you the wine is too acidic,
  As you drink Malvasia, And when my
  mouth is sweet to you, Then come back to me only! <

Song OF HARLEQUIN

Love,
hate, hope, anguish, All pleasure and all pain, Anything can endure
a heart Once at the other times

But neither pleasure nor pain, Dead
and the pain, This is deadly your heart And so you may not be me!

  
  Have to lift you out of darkness,
  It would also include new
  agony You must live, love life,
  Still alive for once!
  
  Zerbinetta

  
  I still think the one I belong entirely,
  Yet I mean to myself
  so be sure to There steals into the
  heart quietly bewitching Already
  a never tasted freedom, A
  new and stealthy love Tail end of a naughty feelings!

I am still true, and yet it is a lie I consider myself loyal and
I'm already bad.

  Using false weights everything is weighed
  - And half knowing and half in
  a frenzy I deceive him at last, and
  yet love him right!

  Yes, half knowing and half in a frenzy
  I still love and deceive
  at length right! So it was with
  Pagliazzo And with Mezzetino!

  Then it was Cavicchio, Then Buratin,
  Then Pasquariello! Oh,
  and sometimes Will it seems to me
  There were two!

But never moods, Always a must!

  Always a new Uneasy amazement.
  That a heart so even himself,
  Even himself does not understand!
  Each one came as a god, And his step was already making me dumb He
kissed my forehead and cheeks, I was captivated by the God And walked
round and round!

  
  
  VOICE OF THE UNBORN
  

  Father, Who threatens nothing See,
  it vanishes already Mother,
  Anxious, The misled you! If
  ever a party, If it were not secretly We are the guests, We are also
the hosts?

  
  SONG OF THE WORLD
  
  Fly out time, you're my maid Schmück
  me of nächtet, adorn me, when it meets,
  Braid my hair play, around my shoe, I
  am the wife, the girl you are! Heia! But once
  you step in. angry The stars shoot crooked
  appearance, The wind passes through the high
  hall, The sun goes out, the light is pale,
  The ground is a death certificate, Since you will
  be my mistress! Alas! And I am your servant,
  weak and despondent, God's the pity! Fly
  out, period! The time is
  far! Heia!
  
  SHAPING
  
  A BOY
  
  I
  
  While he knew the
  shells not beautiful:
  He was too much of a
  world with them; The fragrance of
  hyacinths was nothing to him And
  not the mirror image of their own
  faces.
  
  But all his days were so Open
  like a lyre-shaped valley, In it, he also at the same time Herr and
Knecht Of life was white and without choice.

  
  As one who does not, which
  is not seemly to him, But
  not for long, he
  went on the trails: The
  Homecoming and endless
  conversation Raised
  his soul still oppose.

  
  II
  
  Before he was subdued for his skill;
  He drank
  a lot of flooding, which was bitter and
  hard. Then he turned to strange And
  standing on the shore strangely light
  and empty.
  
  At his feet, rolled out shells,
  And he
  had hyacinths in her hair, And her beauty,
  he knew, and also That
  this was the consolation of good living.

But
  with unsicherm smile he had them Soon fall, for a great look This
showed him beautiful jail His own incomprehensible fate.

THE BOY IN THE LANDSCAPE

The gardeners uncovered their beds, And
many beggars were everywhere With schwarzverbundnen eyes and on crutches
- But even with the harp and the new flowers The strong scent of the
weak spring flowers.

  
  
  The bare trees were free of all: We looked
  down the river and saw the market And many children played along
the ponds.

  Through this landscape, he went
  slowly And felt their power and knew
  - that To him the world affairs related.
  

  To those foreign children, he went to And was
  ready to unknown threshold Added to bring a
  new life serving. Never occurred to him,
  the riches of his soul; The former paths and memory Verschlungner
fingers and exchanged souls to respect for more than trivial possession.

The

scent of the flowers he was talking only On another beauty - and the
new air Was he still breathing one, but without desire: Except that
he could serve him happy.

  
  
  The ship's cook, a prisoner sings:
  

  Alas, divorced from my family, I lie here
  for many weeks; Oh, and those who
  torment me, Do I have to cook supper-meal.

Purpurflossige
  beautiful fish, They brought me alive, Look of broken eyes Gentle
animals I have to kill.

  
  
  Silence I must kill animals, I have
  beautiful fruit peel And for them that despise me, Fiery spices choose.

And

as I bent the light in Sweet and sharp flavors burrow, Step on into
the heart of freedom Tremendous feelings!

  
  
  Alas, divorced from my family, I lie here for how
  many weeks! Oh, and those who torment me,
  Do I have to cook supper-meal!

  
  THE OLD MAN'S LONGING FOR THE SUMMER
  
  When at last July would instead of March,
  
  Nothing should hold me, I would take an edge, On horseback, by carriage
or train I would come out into the beautiful hill country.

  
  
  As groups of large trees stood close Sycamore,
  elm, maple or oak: How long it was that I saw
  no such!
  
  As I dismounted and were calling The driver: Stop! and goes without
a goal Forward in the Summer Country depth.

  
  
  And under such trees I rested from; In their tops
  were day and night At the same time, and not like in this house,

Where
days are sometimes dull as night And nights pale and lurking as day.

There would be all life, glory and splendor.

  
  
  And out of the shadows in the evening
  light Happiness I step, and a touch down blows But nowhere whispered:
"All this is nothing '.

  
  
  The valley is dark, and where houses
  are Are lights and the darkness at me blows But not of death says
the nocturnal wind.

  
  
  I go and see übern Cemetery Only
  flowers at the last weigh tickets, other things from nothing, I feel
a closeness.

  
  
  And between hazel bushes, already
  gloomy, Water flows out, like a child, so I listen And hear a> This
is futile whisper <!

  
  
  As I pull myself out and quick jump
  In, and when I then lift up your head, Is moon, while I wrestle with
the stream.

  

  Half, I lift myself from the cold wave, And
  a smooth pebble into the country Much
  spin I stand in the moon shell.

  
  And on the moonlit summer land Falls
  far a shadow: this, of so sad Nods here, here behind the pillows
on the wall?

  
  
  So gloomy and sad, half-crouching upright Before Day and evil stares
into the early light And I know that both of us lying in wait for
something?

  
  
  He whom the evil wind in this March Torture so that the nights he
never lies down, Clutching the black hand on his heart?

  
  
  Oh, where is July and the summer land!

  
  VERSE TO A SMALL CHILD
  

  You grow rosy feet, The sun countries are
  looking for: The sun countries are open! remained
  silent on tops of there The air hung the millennia, The endless seas
Are still, still there.

  On the edge of the eternal forest Do
  you want out of the wooden bowl The milk snake
  with the share then?

  This is a happy meal Almost fall into the stars!
  On the edge of the eternal sea Quickly you will find
  a playmate: The good friendly dolphin.

  He will leap to the contrary dryness, And
  he is also sometimes So quiet the eternal
  winds You soon the swelling tears.

  There are countries in the sun The old, sublime
  times For still, still there! The sun,
  with a secret force They will shape the rosy feet, to enter your
eternal country.

   I kindly fixed your wine last night in order to give
you a good night's rest. When you arrest me be sure you have the needed papers. Good-by.

"JAMES THURSTON, alias THORNE."

Worth at once drew out the drawer of the bureau and found at its further end a package securely
wrapped in brown paper; but fearing there still might be deception, opened it, and sure enough,
he counted fifty one-thousand-pound Bank of England notes. Securely tying them together, he
placed them in the secret pocket which had been so recently rifled, and started to go downstairs,
but found that the porter was right, he was locked in his room. After thumping at the door,
without success, he remembered seeing a bell, which he rang lustily. After a few minutes a
youth came to the door and turned the key. Worth, thus released, hastened down to discover
that it was eleven o'clock in the forenoon. Within two hours a warrant for the arrest of James
Thurston, alias James Thorne, was issued with a description of the watch and the amount of
money stolen. A notice of reward was also issued and appeared at once in the newspapers. A
general alarm was sent out by the Police Department, the railroad stations and steamboat landings
were vigilantly watched, but without any results. Thorne had gotten away while Worth was asleep.

Fortunately, before leaving home Worth had sewed in the lining of his coat a sum of money as
a reserve fund. This had not been discovered, but for which fact he would have found himself
penniless in a strange land, with only his silver star as the insignia of his identity.

CHAPTER VII

"MICE AND MEN GANG AFT A-GLEY"

The return of Job Worth to London was not at all joyous. He sat upon the deck in his ship chair
or lay in his bunk drawing darkest pictures of his defeat, as he called it. Nor was there any
elation in his feelings when, upon his arrival at the bank, the cashier handed him a check
for three thousand pounds, as a reward for the restoration of the fifty thousand pounds. Yes,
it was something to be sure; yet not much. There was chagrin in it all, and he continually
felt this, as he mingled with his colleagues. To him it was--well--failure. At this time, there
was another meeting of the bank directors. Nearly all were present. The cashier presided. Something
had happened again. Was it another robbery? But no, the atmosphere was different. Mr. Bone
presented the case in a nutshell: A package had been received from New York containing fifty
thousand pounds, and a letter had accompanied the money. It ran thus:

"MR. STEPHEN BONE, Cashier, Bank of England:

"Inclosed find a receipt from Express Company, which will be delivered to you, for the sum
of fifty thousand pounds, which is one third of the amount borrowed from you a little over
a year ago. Please to acknowledge its receipt to Express Company, and oblige,

"Yours penitently, ANDREW COURTENAY."

"This money," said the cashier, "was received yesterday and is now in the vault. Permit me
to congratulate the Board upon having now received two thirds of the stolen money."

"Does anyone know who Andrew Courtenay is?" asked one of the directors.

"No," replied Mr. Bone, as the others sat silent, "I presume not. It is not vital, however,
since the name is most likely fictitious."

Job Worth was given a vote of thanks for his services in restoring the fifty thousand pounds,
and it was resolved that in each case where the money was refunded further prosecution would cease.

One day, soon after Job's return, he sat in his bachelor quarters, brooding over his ill luck,
as he called it. So intense was his disappointment that he began to doubt his fitness for the
calling he had entered, and to think seriously of resigning. True, he had been credited with
two or three successful investigations, but this last undertaking could hardly be called a
success. He had spent four hundred dollars in recovering one third of the stolen money, and
had suffered the thief to outgeneral him. He concluded that he was stupid. Why had he not arrested
him while he had a chance? But he had allowed Thurston to put him to sleep, and then possess
himself of his watch and a hundred pounds of his money, slipping away while he slept, leaving
him a prisoner in his own room. Surely Thurston, instead of himself, had played the detective.
While in this despondent mood one of his brother officers made his appearance and was greeted
with a decidedly doleful "Good morning, Nick."

But the other's response was more cheerful. "Job," he said, "I'm glad to see you again after
your trip. I understand that the bank people honored you with a vote of thanks. That was a
great thing you did in getting that pile of the bank's money."

Nick Hanson and Job Worth were of the same class in the department, and had been admitted on
the same date. Nick was every inch an athlete, fearless and enduring. He was anything but good
looking with his broad face, short limbs, and heavy body. He had made pugilism and wrestling
his study, because they were his delight. Every man in the service respected his prowess. They
all knew that Nick had never been out-classed in athletic sports. Yet, better than any or all
of these qualifications, were his character and disposition. He was the soul of honor and gentle
as a little child. He had a gentle and musical voice. Men used to say that Nick Hanson's laugh
was worth fifty dollars a month. They called him "Old Nick," but no man among them was further
away from that august personage in character and personality.

"Yes, Job," Nick continued as the two shook hands, "I came in to congratulate you on your successful
trip and to welcome you home again. I think the bank has done the right thing by you."

It did not take many minutes for Nick to discover that his congratulations, while appreciated,
were not entirely acceptable, and he went on to say: "Job, there was not a man among us that
as much as suspected those kids of having done that slick job at the bank."

And, sure enough, this was true, and Worth unquestionably deserved credit for the original
thought as well as for the ends accomplished. And although he had not succeeded in capturing
the thief, he had restored one third of the stolen money. Surely, this merited the congratulations
of all honest men.

Worth could not withstand the cheery words and more cheery laugh of his friend. Indeed no one
could. None had ever heard Nick speak an angry word. He brought sunshine with him everywhere,
even when engaged in the most serious work of his profession. He was the hardest man in the
department to comprehend, and yet he was without a peer in frankness and good nature. Nick's
genial spirit had somewhat restored job to his usual equanimity, and Nick knew it.

"It seems, Job," remarked Hanson, "that there were three of those rascals, and they divided
the spoils equally. Let me see--Thurston, McLaren, and Blair. There is only one left. Is there
no way to find out which it is? Two have been exempted from further prosecution, and I suppose
the third one will be, if the money is given up."

"Would you know the third one if you could come across him, Nick?"

"Yes," replied Hanson, "I would know them all anywhere. And I think I could find McLaren, but
since I believe he is one of the men forgiven--having given up the money--I don't want him.
Blair is the fellow we want. Good-by, Job, I'm going away."

And it was four months before these two friends met again during which interval one of them,
at least, had an eventful experience.

CHAPTER VIII

FURTHER DIAGNOSIS

Doctor Marmion, of New York, was greatly drawn toward his young patient at the Monastery, and
as he saw him daily wasting away, he concluded that something more than medicine was needed
to save his life. The secretary still dragged himself through each day's work, spending the
evening in his room with Tom. The day after the doctor's arrival the second time, Tom being
in school and Bishop Albertson away, he found himself in the office alone with Carl. He had
hardly hoped for so early an opportunity to interview his interesting patient. But taking advantage
of the opportunity, exclaimed:

"Well, Carl, you have improved, I hope, since I was here?"

"I fear there has not been much improvement in my physical condition; nor do I much expect
any; and, really, to tell you the truth, Doctor, I am almost wishing for the end," was the
young man's reply.

"Carl," said Dr. Marmion in earnest tones, "if you would give me your confidence, I feel sure
that I could help you, and I will be candid with you. If you don't give that confidence to
someone, it will only be the worse for you. Disease is not the only thing that kills."

"Doctor," was the quiet reply, "I sincerely thank you for the interest you take in me, but
really your words give me pleasure instead of anxiety. Truly, it is not unpleasant to be warned
that I have no assurance of life. I have nothing to live for. My life is wrecked, and I have
not a friend in the world. Why should I desire to prolong my life?"

"Carl," said the doctor, "listen. Everything you say springs from mistaken and blind selfishness.
Yours is the spirit of the suicide and coward; surely, this is unworthy of you. And, besides,
what you say is not true. Your life is not wrecked, only as you determine to wreck it. You
say you have nothing to live for. I know of no young man that has more to live for. You foolishly
and ungratefully say you haven't a friend in the world. You certainly know the contrary is
true. Everyone who knows you is your friend. Is Bishop Albertson not your friend? Is Tom not
your friend? Is that sweet young girl in the other part of the house, whom you have caused
to give her innocent heart to you, not your friend? By some mistake you have crippled your
life. But the good Lord, who pities his erring child, will help you to redeem and make it both
useful and happy. Bear with me, Carl, when I say, if you know that there is a way by which
the usefulness and happiness of your life may be restored and redeemed, and you refuse to adopt
it, you will be guilty of self-murder. Forgive me for these seemingly harsh words. God knows
they are true, and my only plea for thus speaking them to you is my love for you. I cannot
refrain."

Carl sat with drooping head and with tears coursing down his pale cheeks. For a moment or two
he sat silently sobbing; his whole frame was shaking, and looking up with a woebegone countenance,
said: "Doctor, let me come to your room tonight after chapel prayers."

"Very well; I shall be glad to see you," said Doctor Marmion, kindly, and rising, he went out,
leaving Carl alone.

At the close of the evening service the doctor and Carl found themselves alone in the vestry.
The younger man took from the pocket of his top coat a package, and, handing it to the doctor,
said: "I want you to take this package and open it; it will tell its own tale."

Somewhat surprised, the doctor went to a stand close by and did as he was requested. The next
moment he stood speechless with astonishment, for he held in his hands money, English bank
notes, more than he had ever before seen. What did it all mean?

"There, Doctor," sobbed Carl, who had approached him, tremblingly, "is my crime; and growing
out of it is my other and greater crime. I have been and still am a living lie. My father and
mother think me dead. They have suffered--how much, I cannot tell. And my father was here.
His expected coming made me ill; nor did he see me. Are you surprised that I do not desire
to live? Father's belief in my death is easier for him to bear than it would be to know that
I am alive and a criminal."

Then it was for the first time that the doctor grasped the full story--that this gifted, promising
young man, lovable and genial, so attractive as to appeal to him as no other had ever done,
should, of all men, prove a thief, one who had stolen a large amount of money from the great
bank. The doctor was dumfounded! He knew not what to say.

Silence prevailed for a few moments; then the doctor's good judgment inspired him to say in
emphatic tones: "Carl, our first step in righting this great wrong is to get the money back
to where it belongs. I will see to it. You may rely on me, and the sooner it is done, the better.
I will take the next boat and tomorrow forward the money by express to London. This will not
be difficult," added the doctor. "But you have before you another duty equally as great. You
must next enlighten your parents concerning your existence and whereabouts."

This was truly the most difficult as well as delicate, and Carl shrank back from it. "Is it
not sufficient to return the money?" he pleaded.

"No, my dear boy, the return of the money is only a part of your obligation. No part of your
debt must be left unpaid. To fail here would mean utter failure. Everything in this matter
must be made clear, and then you will be enabled to begin life anew."

But Carl, with anguish in his tones as well as in his countenance, exclaimed: "Must my father
and mother be told everything concerning my criminality? That he has a son who deserves a prison
sentence? No! no! Better to let me die; better for both mother and father as well as myself."

"Carl," sternly replied the doctor, "you know not what you ask. Would you die with a lie on
your soul? You said a moment ago that you are a living lie. Would you die thus? You are willing
to pay your debt to the bank, but you are not willing to be just to those who love you with
a love which none but a parent can experience. I am a parent and know all about it."

"Well, Doctor," said Carl, when he had grown more composed, "can we not do one thing at a time?
Can we not take the money and send it to the owners, and suffer the other matter to rest at
least for the present, until we conclude how to manage it?"

"Carl," replied the doctor, as he pushed the package toward the young man, "there is only one
right way, and that is to become truly sorry for wrongdoing, and cheerfully and bravely make
retribution to all parties you have injured. Anything short of this is not fair, and will do
you no good. If I take any hand in this matter, it must be to right the whole. But, Carl, don't
you see, you make no sacrifice in sending back the money--money you have been unable to use?
Had you been able to use it, it might have been very different; it doubtless would have been.
Its return is not necessarily an evidence of either penitence or reform. It is simply a confession
of defeat. A coward can give up that which he cannot use to his convenience. And is it possible,
after all you have said about being a living lie, is it possible that you are unwilling to
pay any part of the price of your unfortunate actions? Penitence is like charity. It never
counts cost. It is a godly sorrow for sin, and is willing to accept results, be they ever so
bitter."

"Doctor," said Carl, in complete surrender, "Let it be so. I am willing to pay the price, even
to death. I plead no more for my own sake, but I would, if possible, save those who love me
from humiliation and agony, which to them would be more terrible than death."

"Here you mistake again," replied the doctor. "You imagine that your father's pride is stronger
than his love."

"So I do," stammered Carl. "I believe that my father would much rather believe that his son
is dead than to know that he is a criminal. There has never been a stain on my father or mother's
name until--until I brought this one upon it and the holy office he occupies. Then, they have
lived through the anguish of believing me to be dead, and it is terrible to think of bringing
into their declining years a deeper sorrow. Ah, believe me, Doctor, it is not my happiness
I desire, but to save them from deeper pain. If I am acting wrongly, I pray God, whom I now
ask for pardon, may direct me aright."

"I greatly fear," replied the doctor, "that you are only willing to be directed in your own
way. But I must leave you. The boat passes Centerville in an hour. I will take the money and
send it by express on tomorrow's steamer."

As has been told, the money was duly received by the cashier of the Bank of England.

As Mr. Bone opened the package, he discovered that the notes had been first wrapped in a sheet
of substantial letter paper, and sealed at both ends. As he was about to drop this wrapper
into the waste basket his eye caught sight of a water mark; the letters were "C.A. Marmion,
N.Y., U.S.A." Thinking that this might prove important, he preserved it for future reference.
He laid it upon his desk and a few days later he wrote and mailed the following letter:

"London, May 25, 18--.

"MR. C.A. MARMION, New York, U.S.A:

"Dear Sir: A few days since I received an express package containing fifty thousand pounds.
The signature was to us unimportant, as we felt sure it was not the name of the writer, but
your paper bears the imprint (water mark) of your name, and I concluded that you are interested
in the matter, so I take the liberty of addressing you.

"Inclosed find an announcement we have made in many papers. The directors of the Bank of England
have now received two thirds of the amount stolen April 11, 18--, and hereby announce that
the persons who have the remainder of the stolen money, if they return it, will not be prosecuted.

"STEPHEN BONE."

CHAPTER IX

HOME BANKING--A FAILURE

In the upper suburb of Montreal, Canada, stood an unassuming cottage, in the midst of a spacious
and well-kept lawn and garden. A young man was seen carrying a rake on his shoulder and with
the other hand drawing a lawn mower toward a shed in one corner of the lot, where he was to
deposit them for the night.

"Hiram, I never saw the lawn look better." These words were spoken by a venerable-looking old
gentleman with cheery voice, as he came around the corner of the garden, smoking a cigar. The
speaker was a large and well proportioned man of perhaps fifty-five years of age. He looked
through large brown eyes, kindly but resolute. His square jaw and firm mouth denoted will power,
his face was ruddy, and his head was crowned with an abundance of curling hair as white as
snow. This was Abram McLain, the retired member of the firm of McLain, Shaw & Co., the originators
and organizers of the first steamboat line running between Liverpool and Montreal. From this
investment and an interest in building the great Victoria bridge across the Saint Lawrence,
Mr. McLain had accumulated a large fortune, which, promptly invested in real estate and safe
stocks which were continually enhancing in value in this rapidly growing municipality, soon
placed him among the accredited millionaires of Canada.

The cottage which he owned and in which he lived was built of gray stone, one tall story in
height, and crowned with a French roof. It was beautified by a wide door in front with colonial
pillars and porch. The windows were tall, to which iron shutters were attached. The ground
on which this building stood had been bought immediately after the conflagration of 1852, when
Saint Mary's Ward was almost obliterated. From that date each year had increased the value
of all property in this part of the city, so that this property alone, having five acres, would
have placed its owner among the well-to-do citizens of the community. But this property was
only a small portion of the holdings of Abram McLain. A unique building was this cottage.

Two skilled mechanics had been brought from Quebec, and no one was permitted to see their work
nor to learn what they were doing. Their work was to be in the basement, which had been excavated
ten feet deep, the massive walls reaching down until they rested upon solid rock. The building
was seventy-five feet square. A furnace occupied the center of the basement. Next, in front,
was a beautiful office, finished in hardwood, exquisitely polished, and furnished with most
modern furniture. In the rear of this office was a smaller room, the walls of which were incased
with steel plates, supposed to be both burglar-proof and fire-proof. This room contained a
safe having no opening except the door into the office. It would never have been taken for
anything but a closet convenient to the main office; but the door was solid iron, the lock
of which none but the owner could manipulate. A reception or smoking room, which Mr. McLain
called his den, was on the other side of the hallway--a cozy and yet elaborately furnished
room, containing tables, sofas, and easy chairs, where the owner could meet his friends for
business or pleasure.

Mr. McLain's father, a sturdy and sagacious Scotchman, had landed in Canada when Abram was
about ten years of age, and began in earnest to win at least a living, if not a fortune, in
this sparsely settled city, which at that time was hardly worthy the name of a city, although
its thoroughgoing citizens had procured a city charter. Mr. McLain by earnest long-sightedness
and industry succeeded in becoming a well-to-do citizen. Unfortunately, Mr. McLain invested
most of his savings in a large banking institution, located on McGill Street--The Montreal
National Bank--which a few months later was consumed in the conflagration. This unfortunate
event with subsequent obligations, left him both poor and in debt, from which he never recovered,
but in two years died, leaving his wife dependent upon their only son. Some years later, when
Abram was accumulating money rapidly, he bought stock in gas and water works, and in both instances
they collapsed, and the stockholders were left by a dishonest set of officers to meet delinquent
obligations. This experience of both father and son not only met with indignant protestations,
but drove Abram to a conclusion wise, or foolish, as the case may be; but he concluded that
hereafter he would be his own banker, or at least the custodian of his own money. This accounted
for the burglar-proof safe in the basement of the new cottage, and where he could keep every
valuable paper, securities, deeds, mortgages, or money. This line of business was no secret
in the community. He was his own banker, and when he sold property or anything else, the place
of the money deposited was his own safe.

Much of Mr. McLain's spare time was spent at the Majestic, then the largest hotel in the city,
he being its owner. Ernest Case, the acting landlord, took great pleasure in introducing him
to customers, and especially if they were prominent persons or had titles attached to their
names, who honored this hostelry with their presence.

One evening Mr. McLain sat in one of the cozy parlors enjoying a cigar with Mayor Dalrymple,
he, himself, being an alderman. They had much in common to interest them, and were conversing
interestedly, when Mr. Case, accompanied by an imposing-looking stranger, approached and asked
permission to introduce Major Bancroft, of Quebec. The major took the liberty of correcting
a slight mistake.

"True, from Quebec last," he said, pleasantly, "but from Devonshire, England, first. That is
my home, and you know an Englishman never denies his country. I am nephew to the Duke of Devon,
and"--hesitatingly--"possibly the next heir to the title. At present I am a major in Her Majesty's
Twenty-first Cavalry. I am just taking a run through your grand country, while not much needed
at home. Gentlemen, you certainly have the making of a great city here in Montreal."

"We think so," said the mayor.

"Yes," added Mr. McLain, "we think that much of it is already made. We have already the best
schools, the best churches, the best hotels and shipping wharves on the continent, and," he
added, smiling, "the most beautiful women in Canada."

"I have no inclination to doubt your word in any one of those statements, Mr. McLain, and especially
your last proposition, as it accords with my own observation; but my opportunities of looking
about as yet have been limited, having arrived only yesterday." Then the major continued: "Is
real estate increasing in value very rapidly?"

The mayor replied: "We have been burned out three times, but each fire has enhanced the value
of all real estate."

"I am glad to hear that," the major replied, "as I am traveling with an eye open for investments.
It is quite different with us. Capital invested in real estate in England usually results in
regrets and loss."

This young stranger was a man of sturdy frame, broad shoulders, and medium height, having a
military bearing; save his mustache, his face was clean shaven, and he had full lips and large,
white teeth. He looked to be possibly twenty-five years of age, and would have been called
good-looking anywhere. Both the resident citizens invited the major to call at their places
of business before he left the city. This he promised to do.

A few days later, Case, in a joking sort of way, remarked to Mr. McLain: "I think some of your
landowners ought to sell Major Bancroft something in the way of real estate. He has plenty
of money. I have fifty thousand of his money in my safe, and he seems to be aching to invest it."

"I am quite willing to sell him some city stock, if he will give me my price," remarked McLain.

"But I imagine he wants something bigger," said Case.

"Why," muttered McLain, "I don't want anything better or bigger."

"Yes, I know," replied Case, "but I think he wants something that will grow while he is fighting
the Boers, as he is looking every day to be ordered home."

"Well," replied McLain, "I give you authority to sell him the Majestic, if you can. I'll authorize
you to act as my agent."

"Thank you," replied Case, "but I'm not anxious to change employers."

"But," answered McLain, "I'm not joking. I will sell anything I have, except my wife and cottage,
if I can get my price."

"What's your selling price for the Majestic?" laughingly asked the other.

"O, well, let me see--I suppose forty thousand pounds would buy it."

"All right," said Case, as he turned away, "I guess I'll not change employers this year."

The Montreal Daily Gazette lay upon Mr. McLain's breakfast table a few days later. Mrs. McLain
called his attention to it, stating that while awaiting his coming to breakfast she had noticed
that the Albermarle was about to be sold to an English capitalist, who proposed to increase
its capacity, and make it the largest hotel in the colony.

"Indeed!" said Mr. McLain, sipping his coffee, and he took up the paper to read for himself.

Glancing first at the money market, his eyes next sought for local items, and he read the following
article: "Changes in real estate. Rumor says that the Albermarle is to change owners. An English
nobleman who is looking for profitable investments is said to be the prospective purchaser.
The capacity of this excellent hostelry, according to the report, is to be greatly increased
by the purchase of the two adjoining properties."

About noon the same day Mr. McLain received a call from Major Bancroft.

"This is a delightful office," remarked the major, as he lighted a cigar that had been handed him.

"Yes, Major, I had an eye to comfort as well as to business when I built it," adding in a sort
of casual way, "I see by this morning's paper that you think of becoming a property owner in
our city; allow me to congratulate you."

"Well," replied the major, "your newspapers are a little too rapid. I notice that they sometimes
get ahead of the hounds. I'm glad you mentioned the matter. Might I ask you how much the Albermarle
is worth in your opinion?"

"O!" replied Mr. McLain, "it would not be right for me to appraise it, as I own the same kind
of property."

"I see," replied the major. "Of course. What, then, would be a fair selling price for the Majestic?
It seems superior in both locality and capacity."

"Well," observed Mr. McLain, "the Majestic has never been put on the market, nor is it today
for sale; consequently, I should ask its full value, if I mentioned any price at all. I would
not look at anything less than forty thousand pounds for it."

"Would you not sell for thirty-five thousand pounds cash?"

Mr. McLain dropped his head slightly, and then suddenly replied: "No, sir, but I would sell
for forty thousand pounds cash, English money."

"Very well, Mr. McLain, make out the necessary papers, and on one week from today I will pay
you forty thousand pounds in Bank of England notes."

"All right, Major, I will meet you at the Montreal National Bank one week from today, at 12
o'clock. I will bring the papers."

"All right," said the Major, and departed.

CHAPTER X

ALMOST A TRAGEDY

A day or two after the sale of the Majestic, while the preparation of the transfer papers was
going on, Mr. McLain's young man, who was acting as his secretary and clerk, asked his employer
to be relieved of his present duties.

"Why, what is the matter, Hiram?" asked Mr. McLain. "Don't you like your job?"

"Yes, sir," was the prompt reply, "but I have got a place that suits me better, and, besides,
I shall make more money."

"Where are you going?"

"Major Bancroft has given me the chief clerkship at the hotel."

"Ah, I didn't know that you had met the major. What will he do with Case?"

"I do not know."

"Well, it will be several days before he gets possession. When do you want to leave me?"

The reply was: "I should like to be released tonight, as Mr. Case is going to show me how to
do the work."

"Very well," replied Mr. McLain, "come to me tomorrow morning and I will settle with you."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Nick Hanson, Genesee House, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A: Come quick. Your man is here. Risis--Montreal."

Hanson received this telegram at seven o'clock in the morning, while eating his breakfast in
the old Genesee House, Buffalo. In thirty minutes he was on the Niagara Express. That night
about ten o'clock two men walked into the public room of the Majestic. Just outside the office
door, in a lounging chair, sat the prospective landlord, as everybody called him. One of the
newcomers was Ben Loring, a well-known detective of the Montreal department; the other our
old friend Nick Hanson.

"Hello, Blair!" exclaimed Nick, in his usual jovial tones, as if greeting an old friend, as
he confidently held out his hand.

At that instant, instead of receiving a handshake, he received a tremendous blow on the neck,
just the place which pugilists aim for. Nick staggered and almost fell. This blow was not struck
by the major, but by his new clerk, who had not been observed by either of the newcomers.

"Two can play at that game," muttered Ben Loring, as he felled Hiram to the floor with a sweeping
blow, and in half a minute Ben had his nippers on the young man's wrists. "I'll teach you to
interfere with an officer in the line of duty," he added.

In the meantime, as Nick staggered up, and the major saw him gaining his equilibrium, he succeeded
in drawing a revolver, but as he raised it to about the level of Hanson's breast that athlete
kicked the hand that held it, and the gun flew upward, struck the ceiling, was discharged,
and fell harmlessly to the floor, while the dislocated hand of the major dropped helplessly
to his side. The other wrist was instantly handcuffed, and within a few minutes both landlord
and clerk were helpless prisoners on their way to the police station. Arriving at that place,
they were duly searched by an officer and their pockets emptied. From the major was taken a
receipt signed by Case for a package of money said to contain fifty thousand pounds. Then a
doctor was found to examine his crippled hand. There was a compound fracture in addition to
the dislocation.

It was now nearly midnight. After the injured hand had been properly treated and dressed the
prisoners were locked up, and the officers returned to the hotel, where Case handed over to
them the package of money. The two officers examined the notes and, finding them to be as the
major had represented, departed with them in their possession, pending the proper disposition
of the case. When they were gone the two detectives sat discussing the event that had just
occurred. The
gentle melancholy of Germans expressed in the single, deep-hearted, sentimental sentimental Humor, we are
overflowing Labetränke of the masterpieces of Dickens, Reuter, Gottfried Keller, Raabe and others owe.
Heine yielding mixed-choleric temperament sentimental the poetic flower bouquets, in which roses are
woven around crowns of thorns, is changing Dew-drops of blood and light. The American, whose
soul rushes for large dimensions, also produced a fantastic, of large-scale, eccentric humor, which
in Edgar Poe, Mark Twain, Bret Harte has received the creative organs. Finally leads to the renunciation
of life, the deep resignation, a form of enhancement of their own, real life lost with a conscious
ideal, but illogical affirmation of life, the gallows humor, the type of that Criminals, embodies
the out on the cart to the scaffold, the amount flocked called out: "Children, do not run away
as fast: I do not come before, it's not happening yet" Here is the contrast almost reversed.
During humorist deep inside the otherwise affirmed his life and yet, as it tied in the idea
of ​​playing, the poor thief lost his life feels and it affirms play only in the idea. This
is typical of any form of gallows humor.

In each case, therefore, is an innate gift of humor to the versatile viewing capability the world
and its phenomena, akin to the art because he, like them, the rhythm so urgently needed, is
art but rhythm, akin to the philosophy because he, like them, the truth adores, and finally used sprung
from the deepest well of the mind, where the gems justice and humanity, preserve their eternal
crystals. The humor is an incorruptible judge, he is a majesty, which decreed in a word, it
should the rights be given free rein, a executioner who the cheaters and the Lügenflitter
the mask from the face of tears, an evangelist, who knows how the rigid formulas of social
Questions to solve even with a sky smile and a comforter that offers all Not gold grains of the
pure conscience and courage of the indestructible personality scatters. "Naked sword frozen in
blows "if the joke crosses the blade, and was for many a threatening thunderstorm a single joke
at the right time often been a lightning rod that the blue sky cheerful unity brought about
by magic. The humor is an educator of the people, a document of his Emotional life, a treasure
house of the wealth of his soul.

SLEEP AND DREAMS

I.

Those who look back on a life of seventy years
is lucky enough - this is known, the highly optimistic view of the
Bible from the average duration of human Existence - that makes it
quite clear to some surprise that it least twenty-five Years, were
he has slept literally - even though it nights of grief, in which
the concern or pain at the edge of the bed sat next to him, or settles,
the nights, he spent less sorrowful as a German student.

One can blame the students that is actually as little as once Frederick the Great, that they
have come to the admittedly unsanitary idea to get used to sleeping; but also seem to believe our
ministries to be that of salaried officials Sleep is a luxury function means. Yes, the state
requires security guards, night watchmen, Telegraph, drivers, etc. even that they kindly convert
their own calendar, the nights are deleted and the dates of their
consciousness, as it were, for the Owls transform and Fledermausnaturell
in the interest of the whole attempt.

That would be a terrific Cruelty by the state and society, and a culpable carelessness of youth,
the the desire to live, to extend through deductions on sleeping muses, even if it does not
actually quite well-fed individuals in nature would be that, like wild birds and butterflies,
from inclination and start nature determination to live up to pulling the first night. Admittedly,
for the overwhelming Majority of living things is the sun and the light and the mother earth ground,
in brightness and color disappeared, the arena for the struggle, victory and destruction of life,
and the Sleep is generally the adaptation of the organism in the setting of the sun, it lasts,
as long as she stays behind the mountains, and he disappears with her first Eastern greeting
causes of our waking before the roosters to make trumpet studies. To be sure, already long, the
culture, the blame Jean Jacques Rousseau a murderer of the elves and the forest gods was allowed
only through firewood and torches, then Tranfunzel, wick, shale oil and gas and now by the rigid, ghostly
light bulbs and bright socks, that Beam on the retina is like a dagger (unfortunately what
the ophthalmologists of later generations once again will have their joy), then sought to
replace the sun and, as to extend - how to take a strong punch or soup. Yes, even the supernatural,
who wanted to try today, with the sunset, would resign from the noise of the be rudely awakened
to artificial light and set his contemporaries, if they covered raised at dawn at their homes as
the funeral unworthy inhabitants of Vineta or wander around Pompeii. Human nature has a rhythm
of ebb and flow, as the Sea, the sky, the stars and everything. It is possible that this rhythm
can be changed, that we are able to adapt gradually to the artificial sources of light, but we
must not surprising that this adjustment only in a roundabout way of hypersensitivity and neurasthenia
reached. Nervousness is perhaps only the intermediate form - in the sense of Darwin - a future
standard of anemic-ethereal, hyper-sensitive White Lily humanity, their struggle for survival
in electrically lighted caves has moved, perhaps they can the production of sheer over-refined
and distinct nerves on your own life again Clear enough, as the adorable fireflies in the
moss or the great lantern bearers of Tropics. One would think that mankind would have no reason
to string those organisms, their weak constitution and lightweight skeleton formation they
deported once from the road of life on dark forest roads, ditches and swamps, because the darkness
of their night they Enemies withdrew better, like night insects, beetles and butterflies, you
should also feel free, to imitate those thieves and burglars in the woods and fields, the owls and raptors,
the the idea came that the darkness is an excellent cover for shady deeds. Meanwhile, however,
there remains hope: for our planetary system, it is the sun, the as the originator and preserver
of all existence, as if the ultimate cause and the reason all things shall be added to, and
it remains the active woman of life itself in the periodic Sweeping the Erdzonen from her face.
The night and its weaving is only the aftermath, or the rebound of the solar power. In fact,
sleep is linked to her disappearance, because antipodes our sleep when we wake up, wake up and when
we sleep. Periodically, then, as the sun rises and verscheint, so periodically and rhythmically swings
the total organic Life in plant and animal life between sleep and back and forth. For the fact
that even plants a have kind of sleep can be considered as experience shows, though here too there
is light even with the their real lives begin at night. The poor! You do not understand how
much they but under the spell of the rays, if they can only come when the light disappears.
Now you can say - and repeated the science it sometimes still is -: that which brings us to
sleep has to do with the sun at all. Sleep is a symptom of fatigue, the periodic drop in the vital
energy, a passive back waters of the wave of life, how actively systolic heart contracts, the
breathing is initiated by ripping action Diastole, but the passive exhalation phases represent
the previous positive actions just as it was the sleeping diastolic flow of nerve, a kind of
exhalation Seelenodems; he was a natural, purely passive process of exhaustion, of easing the
nervous tension. Yes, still daring science (Preyer) has been, it has been asserted that it was a poison,
as the narcotic of the poppy, a physiological, willed by nature opium in the Delicacies of the
budget just because of muscle fatigue of any self-ready, which is gradually mix into the blood
and finally we einschläfre. What strange vision: self-poisoning Muscle poison, periodic anesthesia!
So then the sunlight would only by chance with sleep and guards to do, and only because we use
our muscles and in the day so the meat lactic acid poison during the sunlight, produce seems
to have the sun directly affects the rhythm of sleep and waking. Well, apart from the dubious nature
of this muscle opium - the Preyersches first experiments brought no sleep, but only signs of
poisoning, and Second, can these sleep states almost entirely dissimilar to the extracts of each
other Organ which expel yes, even from the very inactive muscles of the newborn animal, they just
to prove only that muscle juices are also other additions to the blood, - that is apart of the hypothetical
nature of this substance sleep there are striking counter-arguments against the possibility of such
periodic fatigue poisoning. How should an animal with hibernating Gift chambers have such
strange to many of them from months, even under anesthesia to obtained without these features
for even the shadow of an organ in his body related to it? Like, for example, the strange
anesthesia to interpret the hamster-chloroform be who would have no analogy in our knowledge of artificial
sleep, and in the periodic Recurrence of certain forms of madness could win a weak analogy base?
As But first it should be understood by self anesthetic poison in the pathological sleepiness of humans, with
one - but then needed - particularly muscle action before the attack or for the duration of sleep
and no one noticed when a particular content of the blood in these meat lactic acid in no
case has so far can be observed? Where produce babies who still care very little muscle to parade
arts muscle morphine her lovely sleep duration, which is truly for impartial observer more like
a sweet sky Nachdauern peace, descended from the soul of this as a like a deep and stubborn
hangover that followed a storm a sleepless nights beating, after which to suggest, however,
the face of the fellow citizen just einpassierten sometimes seems? Is because in contrast to
the doze of the growing little man the restless life of the neurasthenic or the old man who scurries
up and down in angst and concern, especially with a sleep blessed? Can be said earnestly,
that you, the more you exercise muscle action, the more better sleep? not just over-exertion
is the best way to not sleep anymore? Enjoy not vice versa healthy spiritual workers of an undisturbed,
deep slumber? Will it be said that they also produce all the poison? All the fatigue theory, the Conceives
of life as a rubber band, the guy you have here and there to make it functional get (is not
yet proven in mind that it thus remains permanently elastic), is in my opinion, untenable. Especially
the most vital and most firmly established and indeed "Employed" organs, the heart, lungs, stomach
- these real engines of our physical and psychological operation - lack of sleep altogether.
You hammer blow, and indifferent to dig and weary night and day until the bark is stranded.
But the nerve substance itself, which is to recover mainly rests, are inadequate. Alone the existence
of a dream, the possibility of a consciousness in the dream is against the absolute Rest of the
nervous system. That which we call fatigue feeling can very well feel disturbed balance of
his life-changing activity of various organ systems by the Example, after long marches, the
idle so long, the muscle centers near neighboring intelligence centers demand for life employment.
You want to join in too, because they are also entitled to and to swing into action. We see in the
budget of the brain, only one system off and the others are turned on. So it could just as
well the feeling of fatigue be a precursor of the pain that warns us, the machine is not always
a Rade let go, as so often pain and unpleasant feelings, the role of signal monitors take over for
failure and risk. Where these silent guardians, as in actual mental illness or in sports follies
(daily tours of cyclists), as we see the fatigue as somewhat illusory absent. Mentally ill
afford physically often incomprehensible physiologically of muscle action, and before the era
of four days duration radelnden driver might have been the cause held under the laws of fatigue
for fantasy. Of course one has also yet of highly productive heads, were sitting on the shoulders
of those athletes, too.

Not at all but the hypothesis can not apply from fatigue, or self-poisoning the forms of artificial
sleep, which taught us the art of hypnotizing young added. It would be quite a strange fatigue,
or a strange poison that by stroking or eyeballing, with more or less "friendly" persuasion, the
cerebral ganglia invaded and drowned. One mother, the most careful observer of sleep is not safe
to teach be that her singing and humming her up and weighing the child behind a tiresome Gift
the closed eyelids overwhelmed. What if this whole theory of sleep as one passive process, as it defines the
science still drafts, over board? Let initially, giving clues about the physiology of sleep. Landois,
probably the most intelligent and universal physiologist speaks out on the sofa in the following
sentences: "The Sleep is a phase of the periodicity of the active and dormant state of mental
organ. "" It Sleep is a reduced excitability of the entire nervous system exists. "" The Sleeping
like a creature with the excised brain balls. "It is remarkable that one of these forgotten
principles of the physiology of sleep, so completely has the dream, as a Function of sleep to incorporate
into the definition. For only the psychological fact of the dream and its most common manifestations
of these views on all points. The sleep is not the period of the quiet state of mental organ
called because there are dreams, but dreams are "activities" of the mental organ. During sleep
is also often just an increased excitability of the nervous system exist, such as tremors and
quakes of Organism proves uneasy dreams.

Moreover, the excitability of all existing Nerve function during sleep easily demonstrable. Tue
salt on the tongue of a sleeper, tickle his nose, bring a light in his room: it will taste
with the tongue, the nose rub, or even sneeze in the shadows and does not rotate while . Awake But
even when he awoke, it was proved by the fact that his nervous system excitability was, even
while he slept - and it would be difficult to determine whether stronger or weaker as before-and after.
The sleeper is similar but by no means a being with excised Brain spheres, although we unfortunately
no such victims of science with some hope could provide success this question. But we also see
from the function of dreams, the self-awareness, visual, auditory perception, etc. do not exclude
the possibility that the essential parts organ of the brain, the ganglia of the brain spheres,
are in full activity. Yes, in the sleepwalking, a variant of the dream, we find even conscious
and by the memory and observation reconstructed expediency acts only through the activities
of "as it cut out" Brain balls can be mediated. In contradiction with these definitions is therefore
in your sleep something there that it does nothing to be regarded as something active. The
analogy with low tide, with the diastole, with the exhalation, with the periodic elastic relaxation
Voltage could be replaced by a view that the sleep to take place, because some there is something
that draws a cloak of invisibility over the ganglia systems, the nervous mechanism acts as the
counter-current of an electric or vapor barrier, which extends over the Äolsharfensaiten the soul
and its billions of vibrating membranes over runs like a more diverse damper the sounds of
stifled the flames fade makes stop motion means and the World and its environment can sometimes
sink. In reality, sleep is a form of active consciousness inhibition. We know, however - and this
is the Fertile with this view - that inhibitions, insulation, cut-outs in consciousness quite
active operations, the nerve activity soul fully equivalent functions. Yes, we can even argue
with some justification, that, in general, biologically speaking, the inhibition, the resistance
of the importance of a has an active world law by just the really decisive for the formation the
ubiquitous and should be pressing for operating life. The infinitely mutable Designs, which has
life, it gains only by weakening or strengthening it faced Forms of inhibition. Life is like a puzzling
given current, each clinging efficient matter, it pours through every groove, every crack in
the shape of this gap, and the inhibition resembles a clawed end, forming, much-fingered fist: it
forces the mold. Life has only place in the cavity, which give him the resistors. This is a
universal law, and and the complicated system of mental nerve activity can recognize it.
 The mother's arms were around his neck, the father's hands were upon his head, and
Eleen held his hands in her own. All wept in silence a moment or two, but the tears were tears
of joy.

Then the father spoke with trembling voice: "My son was dead and is alive again," he said.
"He was lost and is found. Pardoned? Yes, joyously pardoned! Forgiven by heaven, forgiven on
earth. My heart gratefully pardons all your errors toward me and mine. And now, my son, consecrate
yourself this day to God's service, and may your future life be so loyal and noble that he
who has been so loving and forbearing to us all and restored you to his favor, may at last
crown you with 'Well done, good and faithful servant.'"

It was past midnight before they became aware of it. Joseph came in to escort Mr. Edward, as
he familiarly called him, to his room, but the young man excused himself, since he had engaged
a room at the hotel and his baggage was there; but tomorrow he would come to them.

He returned to his lodging, where he slept as he had not slept during one and a half years.

The next day was a great occasion at the episcopal residence. The early morning service conveyed
the strange, but glad, news to all who were present that the good bishop's long absent son
had returned, and they in turn transmitted it to their friends. He was supposed to have been
drowned more than a year ago, and this day was the twentieth anniversary of his birth. The
house was filled with callers from early morning until late at night. And thus it was for many
days.

If anyone associated the reported drowning with the event of the bank robbery, they never so
expressed themselves, nor was his whereabouts during his absence discussed in other than a
friendly way. Nevertheless, the returned wanderer was not wholly at ease. He suspected that
the kindly and refined nature of these friends silenced many questions which doubtless were
in their minds, and often a lull in the conversation filled him with fear and dread of an inadvertent
inquiry.

CHAPTER XIII

THE NEW LIFE

The chief regret now in this young man's mind was the loss of two college years. Bishop Albertson
greatly desired his return to the Monastery to take up and finish his collegiate course, and
receive his diploma from that institution. But the father seriously objected, because this
would necessitate his absence again from home. After much discussion and correspondence, the
two bishops concluded to leave its decision to the young man himself. As soon as Eleen learned
this her woman's sagacity told her what the decision would be. She had her brother's confidence,
young as she was, and he had shown her Alice's photograph. She was correct in her conclusions.
It was not many days before he made known his determination to return to the Monastery and
finish his studies. This would only take two years.

Edward McLaren now felt how irksome this change of name would be among his friends at the Monastery,
for there he was known only as "Carl." But this must be met honestly, so he returned at once
to his true name in all his correspondence. Edward's expected return to the Monastery was hailed
with delight by all. Two great loves welcomed him: first, Alice, of course, knowing how much
she had done in his decision to return to America, and that but for his love for her he probably
would not have returned, gave to him her implicit confidence and all the wealth of affection
contained in her womanly heart. Then Tom, who had been bereaved sorely for four months, was
in rapture; he, however, could not tolerate any name but the old one, "Carl." Nor was Bishop
Albertson far behind these two in his expressions of affection and confidence. All matters
of business, of a secular character, were placed in Edward's hands and his judgment was seldom
overruled. But, finally, on account of his studies, Edward had to give these up. So with great
reluctance he resigned his office as secretary. This was greatly regretted by the bishop, but
he could not conscientiously oppose it. But at the suggestion of the retiring secretary Alice
was appointed to fill the vacant place, with the promise that Edward, when possible, would
render her his assistance. And thus the collegiate year commenced. The number of students matriculated
was larger than ever before.

Edward again assumed charge of the organ and was recognized as music director of Monastery
University and church. Tom, too, was entered in the last year of the preparatory department.
Edward and he still occupied the room at the farm known as Carl and Tom's room. This was a
great help to the boy, as they had set apart three hours each evening for their respective
studies, and the elder student rendered Tom much assistance.

At the close of the year Tom passed out of the preparatory department and was admitted into
the classical course, and Edward McLaren entered upon his senior year. Edward was likewise
recommended as a licentiate for the ministry. But the committee ordered that before this should
be fully granted the old custom should be observed and he should preach a "trial sermon," and
the date was set for that occasion. If possible, this occasion was of more importance to Tom
than to Edward. He was continually referring to it and hoping that it might be a great success.
The committee had appointed Sunday afternoon as the time, and the service was announced throughout
a wide territory.

The day for the sermon was clear and beautiful. The bishop and faculty were surprised at the
amount of interest shown. Many persons remained after the morning service, having brought their
luncheons with them, and, as the appointed hour, three o'clock, approached, it was seen that
the college chapel would not contain the great crowd, and it was concluded that the service
must be held in the auditorium of the church. The large audience room was filled to its utmost
capacity. It was truly an ordeal for the young man to pass through. Tom was the most nervous
person in the twelve hundred present. "Will my Carl stand the test?" asked Tom of himself.
But of course he would. Two young clergymen had charge of the opening exercises. Alice presided
at the organ, and a full choir rendered the music, doing justice to the hour and the service.

The young preacher was pale and somewhat nervous when he arose to announce his text. At first
he could scarce be heard ten yards away; but he quickly corrected the fault and went on with
fuller confidence and courage.

He spoke from Psalm 119. 59: "I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies."

"Thinking is royal," he said. "Thought is king. Everything of beauty or usefulness is the child
of thought. Here is the distinction between man and the brute. Here is the cause of difference
between the savant and the savage. And here is the difference between men. Some think; others
do not. And what fields for thought are spread out before the human mind! For instance, nations
and cities once great and influential are now blotted out. Babylon, Rome, Palmyra, Jerusalem.
What destroyed them? They refused to acknowledge God, and he left them to perish. Ah! They
forsook God and he left them.

"Again. Notice the nations that have come up out of barbaric obscurity to become the world
power today--England, Germany, the United States. What has thus lifted them to their peerless
position? They acknowledge God to be their God and King of all kings and all nations. Finally she brought her Attachment
with an air of grim determination yet about. She went out and opened the front door. Above,
Rolf leaned out the window.

"Who's there?"

       "I will only bring a letter to the box," said Martha, and ran hurriedly,
as follow they, in the meantime also occurred darkness.

* * * * *

Rolfers won the boys themselves off from the station. The bright happy jumped off the train,
overflowing with all good news. In Berlin, Hamburg and flew the banners of victory from the rooftops,
because Lemberg had fallen, and now rushed to the armies of Warsaw - And the exhibition - The professor
should not only believe that the people for war sake, no interest would have more of Art -
Had urged the people - the National Gallery bought the large seascape, with the heavy air of the
gray and the dark Water - and it had been fine that already stood at the opening of the exhibition
it have: Sold. And the Kunsthalle in Hamburg will also buy an image,
it is still uncertain which one.

Gebhardt and it would have been telegraphed, but he would grant him the joy, to report it.
And he was fond of him - and the young woman also Gebhardt Gebhardt ... Not to say - But he
already knew whom he owed that.

The evening was spent in the happy reports of the excited boy. They sat on the Porch. Rolf had asked
Martha, eating a little to make festive, and had Cut roses, put them on the table. Most recently, he brought
a bottle of champagne from the basement and poured it into the beautiful slender crystal goblets,
which otherwise in the ancient Glass cabinet stood. Richard was quite wild with delight. Martha
shook her head and said, Rolfers spoil the boy, but she was overruled. The professor was funny
as a College Student - And the two concocted all sorts of jokes and purrs from each other. Richard
also grabbed the parcel with a dark purple dress fabric, together they enveloped the reluctant
Woman with the soft wool, and finally hung Rolfers her the gold chain
over his head.

Then Richard took his lute and sang patriotic songs, and the professor sang with brave, he also
taught melodies of beautiful old folk songs.

       Martha had tuned in at first with, But she was silent again soon.

Rolfers once asked: "Martha, you is not comfortable, you look so pale" But she said that? It was
only the green glow of the thick vines.

* * * * *

Hot red cheeks and eyes like two lights Richard looked out the white
bed pillows, as his mother once came to him, give him the good-night
kiss.

"Mom - it was a beautiful evening - not? Lovely! That the professor could be so funny I never
would have believed! And the gold chain, what -?

You must now wear every day - oh, why have you removed it - it suits you so well! - Mom, what
have you - you little tortures - You've not got the gifts - you do not believe that the professor
loves us? Say it, Mom? "

When energized, the boy sat up, put his arm around his mother's neck
and stroked it.

"He loves you," exclaimed Mrs. Martha. "What I am him? Nothing! Less than nothing! ... A housekeeper
- He does take advantage of us and then a gift. How I insulted does
not even suspect it!

So from the top down! - O - I know him, the magician - but about
me He has no power - only you - he has totally!

"

She sobbed aloud. Richard broke his arm dismayed by her neck. The outbreak hit him so unprepared,
that he was frightened at first only limitless. Never had he so passionate sounds of his mother's
mouth deteriorate. As she came, the silence, mounted, Sensible, to
this desperate cry?

How long have you had to have dug in ... But what? He still does not understand the reason
for their grief.

"Tell me just why are you so sad?" He asked.

And when she was silent, his head violently shook, he quietly began hesitantly, with shame
and fear: "If you had not forgiven him, why did you come up to him? I did not want it! I understand
you also do not initially - Yes - but then -! I've understood - so good - so good ... One must worship
him ... "

Martha suddenly snatched her son in her arms and kissed him wildly.

"I can not stand it - I can not bear it," she moaned!.

"I shall perish in it - I would be bad if I stay here - in common, malicious - nasty - very,
very small will I, if I stay here any longer ... He took away everything - and it is up to me
also still take. You already see and hear nothing but him! You are already enchanted - Richard,
did you get your poor mom did not love "?

"But, mother -," cried the boy, sat up quickly and saw his mother
with his bright eyes angrily, "you talk like that?

I do not even know you anymore ... I've love, that's natural.

May I therefore do not love another man ... Mum - he - he is still my father! "

"Okay - so choose," said Martha!. She stood up and looked with tear-stained, rumpled Trains on
him down. "Yes, Richard - it's no different. I have superhuman credited and can not carry it.
Because of me say I'm weak. I am only a weak Woman. I want to leave here. Away from the house
I want! "

"Mother - that - no, you can not," Richard cried aloud in terror and stared! his mother full
of horror.

"Be silent, Richard, he hears us," urged the mother.

"My boy, it is hard for you, but You must bring me the victim - you will - I know ... "

"What sacrifice," asked Richard and began to tremble. "What do you mean, Mom?"

"That you shall go with me, Richard, I mean. Secretly, we want to go. Another way it is not
- or he takes us back after all in his power.

I can not live by it, as it lures you away from my heart ... And believe me, Richard - I know
him - in him is a horrible cold.

What he is human happiness - it is only the art ... If you him as a disappointment - you should
see it up ruthlessly as he throws overboard ... "

"He may even," said the boy defiantly. "That is his right!"

"I do not want it. I do not. I break it. "

Her eyes wandered helplessly. "Maybe it's too late," she said suddenly pressed, as under a too
heavy burden of sorrow. "Yes, I feel it, just stay with him ... Let me go, Richard, hold me
back. Look - I have looked for a position where I have bread, am independent. Not in Berlin,
which was just to mislead him. You will I do not tell Richard! If only I am very far away
from you, at work, in quite a lot of work - then it will indeed work out. Then I'll find me already
... "

"Mother - that everything is impossible - impossible so strange ..."

Now she stroked him with tears on it by the pale, sunken and tired Face ran.

"Gelt - you say anything to him - not betray me?

My poor boy, I'll do you so sad must ... "

"Yes," murmured, "Richard and his head was bleak fall on the breast,"
you're hurting me - so sad ... "He cringed, as in the major body aches.

"I've never thought of it ... Never ... Mother - please - try to sleep but ... Tomorrow you'll
see everything differently ... "

"No, Richard - this is not a plan of today - which is matured in me for weeks. And now I I decided
quite ... But I will not force you to go with me. It would be ...?« Too cruel

Richard clenched his fists.

'No, no, I do not go with her,' he cried in it. 'I belong to him to stay here '...

They had expected an answer and watched her son strongly excited.

He pursed his lips and turned his head away from her. Crabby he stretched himself in his Cushions.

For
some moments she stood irresolute on his bed.

"Richard, do you want me no more give a kiss, "she asked in a low
humble voice.

He made a violently negative Movement and burrowed his face into
the pillow ...

Then she went back bent and swaying in her room.

She left the door open for you was as if she can not now be alone when she had to at least
hear his even breathing. Quietly and quickly put them down.

Difficult the hot summer night hung over the camp, furtively on the
Martha in the pillow crying.

       She heard Richard sometimes back and threw her.

Then again, he lay still long, so that they seized with a strange fear was. Could they really
live without her son? She had the so hingesprochen ... But if he would free himself from her
when she would lose him? ... Nevertheless, they did not leave of her resolution to which it
clung like a drowning man at a rescue boat clinging. So many years had lived in sober silence
... No, she had lied, say if they wanted, that youth still on their
fate laste.

She had long since got over. She was peaceful and happy was in her offspring. No idea she
had ever worried that her once more mental suffering could be saved up, as it in recent weeks had
been through.

She heard the door go quietly, heard the bare feet tapping. Richards made it different form in
a white nightgown. He came softly nearer, sat down beside her, bent low over her and whispered
in her ear: "Mommy, tell me one ... You still love him, right? ... "

She threw her arms around her son and pressed her head against his chest. "I do not know - Help
me, Richard ... help me - - yes - I think - I still love him ... "

He held still for long in his arms on his chest. Then he said, quiet and safe: "I'll go with you,
mom. I will not leave. The only think not. I always stay at you. But now to hear: Secretly,
we do not go, we do in any case. What you want, one must also represented. You must tell him.
"

"I can not!"

"Yes, you can. He holds us back if we want to go away - this is much too proud. If you wish, just
call me and I tell him that I will go with you. Then is all over between us. "

The boy said the last words in such a heartbreaking tone of hopelessness,
Martha that he is violently suppressed, and whispered:

"You will
not hate me - my only"?

"No, Mom - I understand you, yes," he said softly and tired.

They sat for a while been swallowed up in the sultry summer night,
silent each other or talked quietly about the details of Martha's
plan.

Richard finally returned back to his bed and fell immediately into a deep, heavy sleep.

* * * * *

Rolfers walked across the yard into the barn. Luetje should clean the horse and harness. He Richard
wanted to go over land, to show him a certain point, from which he the picture was painted, which
intended to buy the Hamburger Kunsthalle.

He was in good mood, whistling, in memory of the merry little feast on the veranda Melody of "Germany,
Germany above everything".

Yes, thank God, the taking of Lemberg, the breakthrough of Mackensen
- but it was a wide-open door created by the success of German arms
storming forward could pass into it to Russia.

Germany would not go under ... It would live and Win ... And his eyes looked redeemed in the
future. The terrible pressure that all the recent months had been
on his chest was gone.

He was able to breathe freely - To live and look forward. His ego was dead - died in a thousand
bitter pain. This hard stubborn ego that was only there to make the world in order that a center
vortex circled, which wanted only himself and sought, in all art only themselves to represent
had to make, and therefore it never reached the highest ... He knew very well. Even with two
healthy arms and hands, he's never had prepared and obtained, always
in Theories tormented ... The boy - who was working towards it much
more naive, than he ever could.

At the end of the Richard reached in the art, which he so fervently
sought his life.

Could he save him only from the Academy's economy, the envious look on his rival, the yaw for
success, to stir. If he could protect him from the wild chase, in
the they all had eaten, he and his contemporaries.

There was still a wonderful mature Sweetness in the self-surrender to the coming sake - only to
be one that paves the way in the new country for the youth in the home rescued.

Rolfers entered the twilight shed, in which the sun through the large
entrance door Bright light rail, sent billions of dust durchflimmert
atoms.

He saw the old coachman not and was about to go out again, to seek him in the stall next door,
he heard behind the dusty darkness of the carriage from moving.

He listened to - there was hidden someone.

With a few quick steps, he walked around the carriage. On a feed bag was Richard, hunched, his
arms placed on a projecting beam, hold the head on it. His shoulders twitched in short bursts,
a sound, like a wine, which violently repressed should be urged to Rolf. It was cold and dizzy
him before the eyes, so deeply shocked he said. What had happened here?
"Richard ..."

He was with his left hand he lift his head, but the
only burrowed deep into the hiding place the arms. All the boys body
was shaken by this passionate sobs.

"Richard, my little guy - for
God's sake - what's happened to you? Look at me - Do not you know,
what I mean to you? You can trust me! "

The boy jumped to his feet,
showed him a red hot and turned intes face, inflamed, swollen Eyes,
threw his arms around his neck and wondered how to sheer exhaustion
of shame his head on the man's chest. The first sought to dry his
tears only to stroking his hair and whispered to him good, soothing
words.

Richard looked up and smiled, like sick children smile at
times, the adults of to soothe their pain.

"- There is nothing,"
he answered hastily, "just stupidity ... I had something to do with
mom - it is already over. "

"Since you do not know me now, my boy,
said," Rolfers very seriously. "The truth will I already know, even
if you do not want to tell me - on it you will never leave. "

His
eyes stayed on strongly to the boy. The various possibilities that
the otherwise could have caused such a tough boy on this isolated
outbreak of pain raced through his imagination. On the right, he did
not fall. Some experience in Berlin seemed than the obvious. Mother
and son had been talking to each other last night - yes he had aroused
their voices heard in hard several times increase.

"Richard, - I
should ask you first to tell me what's wrong?"

In the face puffy
from crying and dug it worked. "The mother did with you To talk, "stammered
the boy. "They will do it but not, she says yes, she has no courage."

Rolfers
frowned, his face meant he was something sinister, threatening. "Not
Courage, "he growled," what does that mean ... Since I have believed
for months, with friends to live together, and now it seems she hedges
behind my back some of something only be kept secret. must "

"Look,"
Richard said eagerly, the "I told the mother. You need to know! We
want to continue! "

"What - away from me - away -? You too? "

Richard
nodded. "I am one mother," That was just a defiant murmur. But Rolfers
had yet understood. He was completely stunned - this possibility when
he Martha also exempted, he had never thought seriously. The feeling
of a vast Disappointment to him tied to the throat. An anger rose
in him - he would have to Boys can throw and strangle him. - But he,
as he saw that the man was black, white the face and the message almost
choked, bent down, took his left hand and kissed them. They had been in session since ten o'clock. So, by motion, they, without
remarks, adjourned to meet at seven o'clock in the evening.

In reality the president's resignation was a surprise to many. "What now?" was the question.
As the hour approached the men were seen in groups, engaged in earnest discussion. But when
they came together it was soon manifest that there was no concert of thought, much less readiness
for concert of action. The prevailing thought seemed to be to postpone any attempt to elect
a president, it being the feeling that it was too precipitous. But a majority of the board
insisted on at once proceeding to fill the vacant presidency, their chief argument being that
the new incumbent might have time to prepare for the fall term, and, further, that no outside
parties might be formed and no politics should be allowed to interfere.

Bishop Albertson was asked to preside, and when the board was called to order, Mr. Quintin
arose and modestly asked permission to address them. All were glad to hear this faithful servant
of the institution.

He begged them not to construe his remarks into self-praise, but to understand them as intending
to simply show his unselfish interest in the prosperity of the Monastery. Only this and nothing
more. Thirty-one years ago he had been made a trustee. He was then nineteen years of age, and
at their first meeting he was elected treasurer of said board. From, that date every dollar
received or paid out in the interest of this institution had passed through his hands. He had
planned every building and paid for its erection; laid off the Monastery Park, superintended
the farm, stocked it with all its live stock, purchased and paid for all the agricultural implements.
He had planned, built and paid for the erection of the new church building. He had charge of
Mr. Thorndyke's endowment fund, to which had been added fifty thousand dollars, making now
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, which was safely invested at six per cent interest
per annum. All this had been simply a labor of love, he never having received a dollar for
his services. This was not boasting, but simply to show them his love for the interests of
Monastery University and church. And this love alone inspired him to nominate a man for the
vacant presidency. And to still further gain their confidence in his unselfish judgment and
love, he continued: "Seventeen years ago, when Mr. Rixey died, I engaged a young man twenty-six
years of age to work our farm. Surely I made no mistake. There is no better man than William
Sparrow, and no better farm in the county. Ten years ago, I made bold to nominate a man for
the place made vacant by the resignation of Dr. Worth. Did I make any mistake in that nomination?
Did you make any mistake in confirming that nomination? And now our beloved president is retiring,
full of honors and esteem, and that great and responsible place is vacant, and I confess that
my past successes make me confident as I pronounce the name of a successor. I have consulted
no man, not even the man whose name I shall speak. I do not know but he may decline the nomination,
but my best judgment and unbiased conscience unite and prompt me to nominate Edward McLaren,
LL.D., for presidency of Monastery University."

This nomination did not seem to surprise anyone except the man nominated. The thought of such
an occurrence had not so much as come to him. Several weeks before the bishop had in an incidental
way intimated that he was seriously contemplating shaking off some of his responsibilities,
but nothing more had been said, and Edward had forgotten the remark. And when the bishop had
presented his resignation, and it was accepted, McLaren simply concluded that this would entail
extra work upon him for a month or two, until the trustees found a suitable man to fill the
vacancy. But now as he heard his name spoken, it came like an electric shock, and he sprang
to his feet, exclaiming: "O, no! This must not be. It cannot be!" He then moved a postponement
of the election. He said: "It is only thirteen years since I stood in front of that old farmhouse,
tired and hungry, a timid wandering youth, seeking work and bread, but more, seeking rest of
soul and conscience. The farmer and his precious wife took me in and have been to me more than
brother and sister." Then, turning round and facing the bishop, he continued: "And this man
has been more than a father; but for him and the wife he gave me, I should not be here today.
No! no! You have honored me too much already, and I move a postponement of this election until
a future meeting of the board of trustees."

There was not a man but what was affected by these unselfish and grateful words; but they affected
the auditors in just the opposite direction from that intended--really they insured his election.

A moment of silence followed. Then Mr. Quintin arose and said. "Mr. President, I hear no second
to Dr. McLaren's motion to postpone. His words have indeed touched my heart, and in their modesty
and unselfishness I see only a confirmation that I am making a wise nomination. I am thoroughly
convinced that I am commending the right man, and with all due respect to the opinion of Dr.
McLaren, I now renew my nomination."

The chairman, with his usual dignity, put the question, and Edward McLaren, LL.D., was unanimously
elected president of Monastery University.

Such election of course created another vacancy in the faculty of the Monastery. The chairman
proceeded at once to state this fact. Again there was silence.

"Cannot the work of this chair be divided among the other professors for a time?" asked Professor
Ware, the Professor of Belles-Lettres.

Mr. Smithson, one of the trustees, moved to adjourn, but the motion was defeated by a large
majority.

"What now is the pleasure of the board?" asked the chairman. Then someone moved to proceed
at once to the election of a professor to fill the vacant chair of Greek and Greek Literature.

This motion prevailed, and the chair announced its readiness to hear nominations for the vacant
chair.

Abram Smithson, Jr., son of one of the trustees, who graduated the day before, was nominated.
But this nomination met with no second.

There were some indications of surprise, which brought Professor Cummins to his feet, and with
some asperity to say that he saw no reasons for expressions of surprise. It was certainly not
the first time that this chair had been filled by a man who had recently graduated. This made
several men smile, among them McLaren, who had been elected to fill that chair the day after
his graduation.

Then the bishop stated that during the thirty years in the past he had never made a nomination,
but that he now felt inclined to do so; and he would nominate Thomas Sparrow, Ph.D., for the
vacant chair of Greek and Greek Literature. Sparrow was one of their own graduates. First,
in their preparatory course; then in classics, and afterward three years in Heidelberg, where
he had won the Philosophy Doctorate.

At this moment the newly-elected president who had been sitting with drooping head, as if he
had been rebuked instead of having received their highest honor, arose and stated that he would
be greatly pleased if Dr. Sparrow could be elected to fill the vacant chair, but he feared
they were too late. Forty-eight hours ago the joint board of Burrough Road Institute, a noted
school in London, had elected him to fill the chair of Belles-Lettres and History, and he feared
that Sparrow had before now telegraphed his acceptance.

"Then," said Quintin, "I move that we elect him anyhow--even if I have to cross the sea to
give Burrough Road satisfaction."

The inspiration was complete; every man was ready to vote, and did vote for the man who was
wanted in London--and Tom Sparrow became Dr. Sparrow, Professor of Greek and Greek Literature
in Monastery University, a result which none ever regretted.

An earnest throng clustered around the newly-elected president, with hearty congratulations.
Not only the trustees, but more than two hundred students, graduates included, who had been
nervously waiting outside to hear the news--rushed impetuously as far as they could into the
board room, and seizing McLaren, hoisted him to the shoulders of four sturdy men, and then
marched out from the chapel into the park singing boisterously their latest college song:

Rah! Rah! Monastery,
Biggest Lion of them all,
Albertson and Mack and Quintin,
  Rah! Rah! Rah!

A full moon made it almost as light as day, and even dignified Albertson joined in the jovial
song, while Billy Sparrow, dressed in his best blue broadcloth with its bright brass buttons,
joined lustily in the chorus: "Rah! Rah! Rah! Albertson, Mack, and Jerry Quintin."

Quintin's team stood at the gate, and its owner told the driver to drive to the farmhouse and
wait there. Quintin himself was somewhat nervous, knowing that he had something more to accomplish
before he slept.

The leader in this carnival of pleasure and song was Joe Elliot, a next year's senior. He was
a stalwart man, the largest in the crowd, six feet four inches in height, broad-shouldered
and clear-eyed--a leader in everything he undertook. He stalked in front, bearing a United
States flag, setting the pace in both step and song.

Quintin after some effort succeeded in reaching Joe's side, and said to the leader: "Joe, get
to the farm as soon as you can and set him down, I want to speak to him as soon as possible.
Stop with three cheers for Mack." Joe took the hint, and with march and song, he halted his
men in front of the farmhouse, and setting McLaren down, took off his cap, an example which
was immediately followed, and they gave three tremendous cheers for the new president of the
Monastery and dispersed.

Immediately, grasping McLaren's arm, Quintin said: "We must find Tom and learn whether he has
cabled to London." They entered the house and found Nancy at once, as if she had been awaiting
their coming, who, without being asked, remarked: "Tom waited until the president was elected,
and then started to Centerville, taking Leon with him to cable to London his acceptance. It
is about half an hour since they started."

"How did he go?" asked Quintin.

"On foot; he took the boy with him for company. It is such a beautiful night, and the lad wanted
to go."

"That is enough," exclaimed Quintin. "Jump in, we may catch him yet. Now, Cyrus, let them go,"
and they did go. In ten minutes they were in front of the telegraph office at the wharf at
Centerville Landing. Just as they began to ascend the stairs a man and a boy came out of the
office--Tom and Leonidas.

"Tom, what have you done?" exclaimed McLaren. 

EXPERIENCE

With silver-gray scents the valley was The twilight met,
such as when the moon seeps through the clouds.

  But it was not night. With silver-gray
  scent of the dark valley Wiped my dim idea
  And I still fell into the weaving, Durchsichtgen
  seas and left the life. How wonderful flowers
  were there, dark with glowing chalices!
  Lush vegetation, Through which a yellow-red
  light as of topaz In warm currents penetrated
  and glowed.
  

"Hold on, then. It must not go in its present shape."

Reid at once laid the message down on his desk, and turned to other work, feeling assured that
it was all right if Quintin and McLaren were interrupting its transit. Flooding the shaft with blood
the contraction of the heart-locking between the Telephone little soul, so be it off to the
estate and discharge of the inhibitory medium fast one at a time ground to be free.


"Father," said the young man, "I did what I thought was best. They kindly offered me an honorable
place at Burrough Road, and I had no expectation of anything of the kind here, and really did
not think that anyone would object, so I accepted; that is all there is to it. The
  big dreams wonderful close Decays
  as the distance somewhere roles From a waterfall
  I have before Belongs, as it was bold and
  swollen, Now decreases the noise and the high
  distance Is empty and desolate from a foreboding:
  The world has himself, oh, I'm learning!
  Not I inhibits the anti-shape As little as
  the run of the beautiful stars. Before
  my eyes is doing the violence, It is happening
  inside my aching heart, She has participated
  in every fiber of my support, I can you - and
  I will not escape: As if they were paths
  leading to the home, Tear it forward with me all
  the senses Into the unknown, and I can
  already feel An unbelievably huge sufficiency
  In anticipation, I'm going to win this:
  To suffer pain, to inflict pain.
   We are all aware that the girl who is
to be your future wife is in England, but think you that Eleen would urge you because of that
to make the sacrifice that your acceptance of the Burrough Road professorship demands? No.
She would say: 'We are young. We can wait. Stay with your father and mother a while--it will
be best.'"

Tom was visibly affected, and after a moment's silence he turned to McLaren. "Carl," he said,
"take the blank and fill it out as you think best. You can sign my name," and taking Leon by
the hand, together they went out, descended the stairs, and started homeward.

Without a word, McLaren took the blank and wrote: "Honor appreciated, but cannot accept. T.
Sparrow, Professor of Greek, Monastery University." But in the days when Richard was away, he had to often the closed and hostile
expression of thought, which, at the interview on housing had shown on her face.

He walked around a lot and restless in the house.

