The two crabs now took the steel net from its moorings and carried it up the harbour.  This
was rather difficult on account of the islands, rocks, and sand-bars; but the leading crab
had on board a pilot acquainted with those waters.  With the net hanging between them, the
two submerged vessels, one carefully following the other, reached a point about two miles below
the city, where the net was anchored across the harbour.  It did not reach from shore to shore,
but in the course of the morning two other nets, designed for shallower waters, were brought
from the repellers and anchored at each end of the main net, thus forming a line of complete
protection against submarine torpedoes which might be sent down from the upper harbour.

Repeller No. 1 now steamed into the harbour, accompanied by Crab A, and anchored about a quarter
of a mile seaward of the net.  The other repeller, with her attendant crab, cruised about the
mouth of the harbour, watching a smaller entrance to the port as well as the larger one, and
thus maintaining an effective blockade.  This was not a difficult duty, for since the news
of the extraordinary performances of the crabs had been spread abroad, no merchant vessel,
large or small, cared to approach that port; and strict orders had been issued by the British
Admiralty that no vessel of the navy should, until further instructed, engage in combat with
the peculiar craft of the Syndicate. Until a plan of action had been determined upon, it was
very desirable that English cruisers should not be exposed to useless injury and danger.

This being the state of affairs, a message was sent from the office of the Syndicate across
the border to the Dominion Government, which stated that the seaport city which had been attacked
by the forces of the Syndicate now lay under the guns of its vessels, and in case of any overt
act of war by Great Britain or Canada alone, such as the entrance of an armed force from British
territory into the United States, or a capture of or attack upon an American vessel, naval
or commercial, by a British man-of-war, or an attack upon an American port by British vessels,
the city would be bombarded and destroyed.

This message, which was, of course, instantly transmitted to London, placed the British Government
in the apparent position of being held by the throat by the American War Syndicate.  But if
the British Government, or the people of England or Canada, recognized this position at all,
it was merely as a temporary condition.  In a short time the most powerful men-of-war of the
Royal Navy, as well as a fleet of transports carrying troops, would reach the coasts of North
America, and then the condition of affairs would rapidly be changed.  It was absurd to suppose
that a few medium-sized vessels, however heavily armoured, or a few new-fangled submarine machines,
however destructive they might be, could withstand an armada of the largest and finest armoured
vessels in the world.  A ship or two might be disabled, although this was unlikely, now that
the new method of attack was understood; but it would soon be the ports of the United States,
on both the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, which would lie under the guns of an enemy.

But it was not in the power of their navy that the British Government and the people of England
and Canada placed their greatest trust, but in the incapacity of their petty foe to support
its ridiculous assumptions.  The claim that the city lay under the guns of the American Syndicate
was considered ridiculous, for few people believed that these vessels had any guns.  Certainly,
there had been no evidence that any shots had been fired from them.  In the opinion of reasonable
people the destruction of the forts and the explosions in the harbour had been caused by mines--mines
of a new and terrifying power--which were the work of traitors and confederates.  The destruction
of the lighthouse had strengthened this belief, for its fall was similar to that which would
have been occasioned by a great explosion under its foundation.

But however terrifying and appalling had been the results of the explosion of these mines,
it was not thought probable that there were any more of them.  The explosions had taken place
at exposed points distant from the city, and the most careful investigation failed to discover
any present signs of mining operations.

This theory of mines worked by confederates was received throughout the civilized world, and
was universally condemned.  Even in the United States the feeling was so strong against this
apparent alliance between the Syndicate and British traitors, that there was reason to believe
that a popular pressure would be brought to bear upon the Government sufficient to force it
to break its contract with the Syndicate, and to carry on the war with the National army and
navy.  The crab was considered an admirable addition to the strength of the navy, but a mine
under a fort, laid and fired by perfidious confederates, was considered unworthy an enlightened
people.

The members of the Syndicate now found themselves in an embarrassing and dangerous position--a
position in which they were placed by the universal incredulity regarding the instantaneous
motor; and unless they could make the world believe that they really used such a motor-bomb,
the war could not be prosecuted on the plan projected.

It was easy enough to convince the enemy of the terrible destruction the Syndicate was able
to effect; but to make that enemy and the world understand that this was done by bombs, which
could be used in one place as well as another, was difficult indeed.  They had attempted to
prove this by announcing that at a certain time a bomb should be projected into a certain fort.
Precisely at the specified time the fort had been destroyed, but nobody believed that a bomb
had been fired.

Every opinion, official or popular, concerning what it had done and what might be expected
of it, was promptly forwarded to the Syndicate by its agents, and it was thus enabled to see
very plainly indeed that the effect it had desired to produce had not been produced.  Unless
the enemy could be made to understand that any fort or ships within ten miles of one of the
Syndicate's cannon could be instantaneously dissipated in the shape of fine dust, this war
could not be carried on upon the principles adopted, and therefore might as well pass out of
the hands of the Syndicate.

Day by day and night by night the state of affairs was anxiously considered at the office of
the Syndicate in New York.  A new and important undertaking was determined upon, and on the
success of this the hopes of the Syndicate now depended.

During the rapid and vigorous preparations which the Syndicate were now making for their new
venture, several events of interest occurred.

Two of the largest Atlantic mail steamers, carrying infantry and artillery troops, and conveyed
by two swift and powerful men-of-war, arrived off the coast of Canada, considerably to the
north of the blockaded city.  The departure and probable time of arrival of these vessels had
been telegraphed to the Syndicate, through one of the continental cables, and a repeller with
two crabs had been for some days waiting for them.  The English vessels had taken a high northern
course, hoping they might enter the Gulf of St. Lawrence without subjecting themselves to injury
from the enemy's crabs, it not being considered probable that there were enough of these vessels
to patrol the entire coast.  But although the crabs were few in number, the Syndicate was able
to place them where they would be of most use; and when the English vessels arrived off the
northern entrance to the gulf, they found their enemies there.

However strong might be the incredulity of the enemy regarding the powers of a repeller to
bombard a city, the Syndicate felt sure there would be no present invasion of the United States
from Canada; but it wished to convince the British Government that troops and munitions of
war could not be safely transported across the Atlantic.  On the other hand, the Syndicate
very much objected to undertaking the imprisonment and sustenance of a large body of soldiers.
Orders were therefore given to the officer in charge of the repeller not to molest the two
transports, but to remove the rudders and extract the screws of the two war-vessels, leaving
them to be towed into port by the troop-ships.

This duty was performed by the crabs, while the British vessels, both rams, were preparing
to make a united and vigorous onset on the repeller, and the two men-of-war were left hopelessly
tossing on the waves.  One of the transports, a very fast steamer, had already entered the
straits, and could not be signalled; but the other one returned and took both the war-ships
in tow, proceeding very slowly until, after entering the gulf, she was relieved by tugboats.

Another event of a somewhat different character was the occasion of much excited feeling and
comment, particularly in the United States. The descent and attack by British vessels on an
Atlantic port was a matter of popular expectation.  The Syndicate had repellers and crabs at
the most important points; but, in the minds of naval officers and a large portion of the people,
little dependence for defence was to be placed upon these.  As to the ability of the War Syndicate
to prevent invasion or attack by means of its threats to bombard the blockaded Canadian port,
very few believed in it.  Even if the Syndicate could do any more damage in that quarter, which
was improbable, what was to prevent the British navy from playing the same game, and entering
an American seaport, threaten to bombard the place if the Syndicate did not immediately run
all their queer vessels high and dry on some convenient beach?

A feeling of indignation against the Syndicate had existed in the navy from the time that the
war contract had been made, and this feeling increased daily.  That the officers and men of
the United States navy should be penned up in harbours, ports, and sounds, while British ships
and the hulking mine-springers and rudder-pinchers of the Syndicate were allowed to roam the
ocean at will, was a very hard thing for brave sailors to bear.  Sometimes the resentment against
this state of affairs rose almost to revolt.

The great naval preparations of England were not yet complete, but single British men-of-war
were now frequently seen off the Atlantic coast of the United States.  No American vessels
had been captured by these since the message of the Syndicate to the Dominion of Canada and
the British Government.  But one good reason for this was the fact that it was very difficult
now to find upon the Atlantic ocean a vessel sailing under the American flag.  As far as possible
these had taken refuge in their own ports or in those of neutral countries.

At the mouth of Delaware Bay, behind the great Breakwater, was now collected a number of coastwise
sailing-vessels and steamers of various classes and sizes; and for the protection of these
maritime refugees, two vessels of the United States navy were stationed at this point. These
were the Lenox and Stockbridge, two of the finest cruisers in the service, and commanded by
two of the most restless and bravest officers of the American navy.

The appearance, early on a summer morning, of a large British cruiser off the mouth of the
harbour, filled those two commanders with uncontrollable belligerency.  That in time of war
a vessel of the enemy should be allowed, undisturbed, to sail up and down before an American
harbour, while an American vessel filled with brave American sailors lay inside like a cowed
dog, was a thought which goaded the soul of each of these commanders.  There was a certain
rivalry between the two ships; and, considering the insult offered by the flaunting red cross
in the offing, and the humiliating restrictions imposed by the Naval Department, each commander
thought only of his own ship, and not at all of the other.

It was almost at the same time that the commanders of the two ships separately came to the
conclusion that the proper way to protect the fleet behind the Breakwater was for his vessel
to boldly steam out to sea and attack the British cruiser.  If this vessel carried a long-range
gun, what was to hinder her from suddenly running in closer and sending a few shells into the
midst of the defenceless merchantmen? In fact, to go out and fight her was the only way to
protect the lives and property in the harbour.

It was true that one of those beastly repellers was sneaking about off the cape, accompanied,
probably, by an underwater tongs-boat.  But as neither of these had done anything, or seemed
likely to do anything, the British cruiser should be attacked without loss of time.

When the commander of the Lenox came to this decision, his ship was well abreast of Cape Henlopen,
and he therefore proceeded directly out to sea.  There was a little fear in his mind that the
English cruiser, which was now bearing to the south-east, might sail off and get away from
him.  The Stockbridge was detained by the arrival of a despatch boat from the shore with a
message from the Naval Department.  But as this message related only to the measurements of
a certain deck gun, her commander intended, as soon as an answer could be sent off, to sail
out and give battle to the British vessel.

Every soul on board the Lenox was now filled with fiery ardour.  The ship was already in good
fighting trim, but every possible preparation was made for a contest which should show their
country and the world what American sailors were made of.

The Lenox had not proceeded more than a mile out to sea, when she perceived Repeller No. 6
coming toward her from seaward, and in a direction which indicated that it intended to run
across her course. The Lenox, however, went straight on, and in a short time the two vessels
were quite near each other.  Upon the deck of the repeller now appeared the director in charge,
who, with a speaking-trumpet, hailed the Lenox and requested her to lay to, as he had something
to communicate.  The commander of the Lenox, through his trumpet, answered that he wanted no
communications, and advised the other vessel to keep out of his way.

The Lenox now put on a greater head of steam, and as she was in any case a much faster vessel
than the repeller, she rapidly increased the distance between herself and the Syndicate's vessel,
so that in a few moments hailing was impossible.  Quick signals now shot up in jets of black
smoke from the repeller, and in a very short time afterward the speed of the Lenox slackened
so much that the repeller was able to come up with her.

When the two vessels were abreast of each other, and at a safe hailing distance apart, another
signal went up from the repeller, and then both vessels almost ceased to move through the water,
although the engines of the Lenox were working at high speed, with her propeller-blades stirring
up a whirlpool at her stern.

For a minute or two the officers of the Lenox could not comprehend what had happened.  It was
first supposed that by mistake the engines had been slackened, but almost at the same moment
that it was found that this was not the case, the discovery was made that the crab accompanying
the repeller had laid hold of the stern-post of the Lenox, and with all the strength of her
powerful engines was holding her back.

Now burst forth in the Lenox a storm of frenzied rage, such as was never seen perhaps upon
any vessel since vessels were first built. From the commander to the stokers every heart was
filled with fury at the insult which was put upon them.  The commander roared through his trumpet
that if that infernal sea-beetle were not immediately loosed from his ship he would first sink
her and then the repeller.

To these remarks the director of the Syndicate's vessels paid no attention, but proceeded to
state as briefly and forcibly as possible that the Lenox had been detained in order that he
might have an opportunity of speaking with her commander, and of informing him that his action
in coming out of the harbour for the purpose of attacking a British vessel was in direct violation
of the contract between the United States and the Syndicate having charge of the war, and that
such action could not be allowed.

The commander of the Lenox paid no more attention to these words than the Syndicate's director
had given to those he had spoken, but immediately commenced a violent attack upon the crab.
It was impossible to bring any of the large guns to bear upon her, for she was almost under
the stern of the Lenox; but every means of offence which infuriated ingenuity could suggest
was used against it.  Machine guns were trained to fire almost perpendicularly, and shot after
shot was poured upon that portion of its glistening back which appeared above the water.

But as these projectiles seemed to have no effect upon the solid back of Crab H, two great
anvils were hoisted at the end of the spanker-boom, and dropped, one after the other, upon
it.  The shocks were tremendous, but the internal construction of the crabs provided, by means
of upright beams, against injury from attacks of this kind, and the great masses of iron slid
off into the sea without doing any damage.

Finding it impossible to make any impression upon the mailed monster at his stern, the commander
of the Lenox hailed the director of the repeller, and swore to him through his trumpet that
if he did not immediately order the Lenox to be set free, her heaviest guns should be brought
to bear upon his floating counting-house, and that it should be sunk, if it took all day to do it.

It would have been a grim satisfaction to the commander of the Lenox to sink Repeller No. 6,
for he knew the vessel when she had belonged to the United States navy.  Before she had been
bought by the Syndicate, and fitted out with spring armour, he had made two long cruises in
her, and he bitterly hated her, from her keel up.

The director of the repeller agreed to release the Lenox the instant her commander would consent
to return to port.  No answer was made to this proposition, but a dynamite gun on the Lenox
was brought to bear upon the Syndicate's vessel.  Desiring to avoid any complications which
might ensue from actions of this sort, the repeller steamed ahead, while the director signalled
Crab H to move the stern of the Lenox to the windward, which, being quickly done, the gun of
the latter bore upon the distant coast.

