Susan had not the slightest conception of the way in which she ought to receive such a declaration.
She had never had a lover before; nor had she ever thought of Aaron absolutely as a lover,
though something very like love for him had been crossing over her spirit. Now, at this moment,
she felt that he was the beau-ideal of manhood, though his boots were covered with the railway
mud, and though his pantaloons were tucked up in rolls round his ankles.  He was a fine, well-grown,
open-faced fellow, whose eye was bold and yet tender, whose brow was full and broad, and all
his bearing manly.  Love him! Of course she loved him.  Why else had her heart melted with
pleasure when her mother said that that second picture was to be accepted?

But what was she to say?  Anything but the open truth; she well knew that.  The open truth
would not do at all.  What would her mother say and Hetta if she were rashly to say that? 
Hetta, she knew, would be dead against such a lover, and of her mother's approbation she had
hardly more hope.  Why they should disapprove of Aaron as a lover she had never asked herself.
There are many nice things that seem to be wrong only because they are so nice.  Maybe that
Susan regarded a lover as one of them.  "Oh, Mr. Dunn, you shouldn't." That in fact was all
that she could say.

"Should not I?" said he.  "Well, perhaps not; but there's the truth, and no harm ever comes
of that.  Perhaps I'd better not ask you for an answer now, but I thought it better you should
know it all.  And remember this--I only care for one thing now in the world, and that is for
your love."  And then he paused, thinking possibly that in spite of what he had said he might
perhaps get some sort of an answer, some inkling of the state of her heart's disposition towards
him.

But Susan had at once resolved to take him at his word when he suggested that an immediate
reply was not necessary.  To say that she loved him was of course impossible, and to say that
she did not was equally so.  She determined therefore to close at once with the offer of silence.

When he ceased speaking there was a moment's pause, during which he strove hard to read what
might be written on her down-turned face. But he was not good at such reading.  "Well, I guess
I'll go and get my things ready now," he said, and then turned round to open the door.

"Mother will be in before you are gone, I suppose," said Susan.

"I have only got twenty minutes," said he, looking at his watch. "But, Susan, tell her what
I have said to you.  Goodbye."  And he put out his hand.  He knew he should see her again,
but this had been his plan to get her hand in his.

"Good-bye, Mr. Dunn," and she gave him her hand.

He held it tight for a moment, so that she could not draw it away,-- could not if she would.
"Will you tell your mother?" he asked.

"Yes," she answered, quite in a whisper.  "I guess I'd better tell her."  And then she gave
a long sigh.  He pressed her hand again and got it up to his lips.

"Mr. Dunn, don't," she said.  But he did kiss it.  "God bless you, my own dearest, dearest
girl!  I'll just open the door as I come down.  Perhaps Mrs. Bell will be here."  And then
he rushed up stairs.

But Mrs. Bell did not come in.  She and Hetta were at a weekly service at Mr. Beckard's meeting-house,
and Mr. Beckard it seemed had much to say.  Susan, when left alone, sat down and tried to think.
But she could not think; she could only love.  She could use her mind only in recounting to
herself the perfections of that demigod whose heavy steps were so audible overhead, as he walked
to and fro collecting his things and putting them into his bag.

And then, just when he had finished, she bethought herself that he must be hungry.  She flew
to the kitchen, but she was too late. Before she could even reach at the loaf of bread he descended
the stairs, with a clattering noise, and heard her voice as she spoke quickly to Kate O'Brien.

"Miss Susan," he said, "don't get anything for me, for I'm off."

"Oh, Mr. Dunn, I am so sorry.  You'll be so hungry on your journey," and she came out to him
in the passage.

"I shall want nothing on the journey, dearest, if you'll say one kind word to me."

Again her eyes went to the ground.  "What do you want me to say, Mr. Dunn?"

"Say, God bless you, Aaron."

"God bless you, Aaron," said she; and yet she was sure that she had not declared her love.
He however thought otherwise, and went up to New York with a happy heart.

Things happened in the next fortnight rather quickly.  Susan at once resolved to tell her mother,
but she resolved also not to tell Hetta.  That afternoon she got her mother to herself in Mrs.
Bell's own room, and then she made a clean breast of it.

"And what did you say to him, Susan?"

"I said nothing, mother."

"Nothing, dear!"

"No, mother; not a word.  He told me he didn't want it."  She forgot how she had used his Christian
name in bidding God bless him.

"Oh dear!" said the widow.

"Was it very wrong?" asked Susan.

"But what do you think yourself, my child?" asked Mrs. Bell after a while.  "What are your
own feelings."

Mrs. Bell was sitting on a chair and Susan was standing opposite to her against the post of
the bed.  She made no answer, but moving from her place, she threw herself into her mother's
arms, and hid her face on her mother's shoulder.  It was easy enough to guess what were her
feelings.

"But, my darling," said her mother, "you must not think that it is an engagement."

"No," said Susan, sorrowfully.

"Young men say those things to amuse themselves."  Wolves, she would have said, had she spoken
out her mind freely.

"Oh, mother, he is not like that."

The daughter contrived to extract a promise from the mother that Hetta should not be told just
at present.  Mrs. Bell calculated that she had six weeks before her; as yet Mr. Beckard had
not spoken out, but there was reason to suppose that he would do so before those six weeks
would be over, and then she would be able to seek counsel from him.

Mr. Beckard spoke out at the end of six days, and Hetta frankly accepted him.  "I hope you'll
love your brother-in-law," said she to Susan.

"Oh, I will indeed," said Susan; and in the softness of her heart at the moment she almost
made up her mind to tell; but Hetta was full of her own affairs, and thus it passed off.

It was then arranged that Hetta should go and spend a week with Mr. Beckard's parents.  Old
Mr. Beckard was a farmer living near Utica, and now that the match was declared and approved,
it was thought well that Hetta should know her future husband's family.  So she went for a
week, and Mr. Beckard went with her.  "He will be back in plenty of time for me to speak to
him before Aaron Dunn's six weeks are over," said Mrs. Bell to herself.

But things did not go exactly as she expected.  On the very morning after the departure of
the engaged couple, there came a letter from Aaron, saying that he would be at Saratoga that
very evening.  The railway people had ordered him down again for some days' special work; then
he was to go elsewhere, and not to return to Saratoga till June.  "But he hoped," so said the
letter, "that Mrs. Bell would not turn him into the street even then, though the summer might
have come, and her regular lodgers might be expected."

"Oh dear, oh dear!" said Mrs. Bell to herself, reflecting that she had no one of whom she could
ask advice, and that she must decide that very day.  Why had she let Mr. Beckard go without
telling him? Then she told Susan, and Susan spent the day trembling.  Perhaps, thought Mrs.
Bell, he will say nothing about it.  In such case, however, would it not be her duty to say
something?  Poor mother! She trembled nearly as much as Susan.

