At first, with her hand upon her heart to still its wild throbbings, she listened intently,
and tried to catch the drift of the fateful conference within. This being vain, her eyes wandered
hurriedly around the room. Standing thus, she unconsciously completed a strange picture in
that incongruous place, with her dejected companion on one side, and the great dog, eying her
savagely, on the other. Gregory's despairing attitude impressed her deeply. In a sudden rash
of pity she felt that he was not as cowardly as he had seemed. A woman with difficulty forgives
this sin. His harsh condemnation and evident detestation of himself impelled her generous nature
instinctively to take the part of his weak and wronged spirit. She had early been taught to
pity rather than to condemn those whom evil is destroying. In all his depravity he did not
repel her, for, though proud, he had no petty, shallow vanity; and the evident fact that he
suffered so deeply disarmed her.

Moreover, companionship in trouble which she felt was partly her fault, drew her toward him,
and, stepping to his side, she laid her hand on his shoulder and said, gently, "Cheer up, my
friend; I understand you better than you do yourself. God will bring us safely through."

He shrunk from her hand, and said, drearily, "With better reason than younder woman I can say,
'I am not fit for you to touch.' As for God, He has nothing to do with me."

She answered, kindly, "I do not think that either of those things is true. But, Mr. Gregory,
what will they do with us? They will not dare--"

She was interrupted by the entrance of the strangely assorted couple into whose crime-stained
hands they had so unexpectedly fallen. Both felt that but little trust could be placed in such
perverted and passion-swept natures--that they would be guided by their fears, impulses, and
interests. Annie's main hope was in the hold she had on the woman's sympathies; but the latter,
as she entered, wore a sullen and disappointed look, as if she had not been given her own way.
Annie at once stepped to her side and again took her hand, as if she were her best hope of
safety. It was evident that her confidence and unshrinking touch affected the poor creature
deeply, and her hand closed over Annie's in a way that was reassuring.

"I suppose you would scarcely like to trust yourselves to me or my dog," said the man, with
a grim laugh. "What's more, I've no time to bother with you. Since my companion here feels
she owes you something, Miss Walton, she can now repay you a hundred-fold. But follow her directions
closely, as you value your lives;" and he left the house with the dog. Soon after, they heard
in the forest what seemed the note of the whippoorwill repeated three times, but it was so
near and importunate that Annie was startled, and the woman's manner indicated that she was
not listening to a bird. After a few moments she said, gloomily: "Miss Walton, I promised you
should receive no harm, and I will keep my word. I hoped I could send you directly home to-night,
but that's impossible. I can do much with Vight, but not everything. He has sworn never to
go to prison again alive, and none of our lives would be worth much if they stood in the way
of his escape. We meant to leave this region before many months, for troublesome stories are
getting around, and now we must go at once. I will take you to a place of safety, from which
you can return home to-morrow. Come."

"But father will be wild with anxiety," cried Annie, wringing her hands.

"It is the best I can do," said the woman, sadly. "Come, we have no time to lose."

She put on a woollen hood, and taking a long, slender staff, led the way out into the darkness.

They felt that there was nothing to do but follow, which they did in silence. They did not
go back toward their broken wagon, but continued down the wheel-track whereon their accident
had occurred. Suddenly the woman left this, taking a path through the woods, and after proceeding
with difficulty some distance, stopped, and lighted a small lantern she had carried under her
shawl. Even with the aid of this their progress was painful and precarious in the steeply descending
rocky path, which had so many intricate windings that both Annie and Gregory felt that they
were indeed being led into a terra incognita. Annie was consumed with anxiety as to the issue
of their strange adventure, but believed confidence in her guide to be the wisest course. Gregory
was too weary and indifferent to care for himself, and stumbled on mechanically.

At last he said, sullenly, "Madam, I can go no further. I may as well die here as anywhere."

"You must go," she said, sharply; "for my sake and Miss Walton's, if not for your own. Besides,
it's not much further. What I do to-night must be done rightly."

"Well, then, while there is breath left, Miss Walton shall have the benefit of it."

"May we not rest a few minutes?" asked Annie. "I too am very tired."

"Yes, before long at the place where you must pass the night."

The path soon came out in another wheel-track, which seemed to lead down a deep ravine. Descending
this a little way, they reached an opening in which was the dusky outline of a small house.

"Here we part," said their guide, taking Annie's hand, while Gregory sank exhausted on a rock
near. "The old woman and her son who live in that house will give you shelter, and to-morrow
you must find your best way home. This seems poor return for your kindness, but it's in keeping
with my miserable life, which is as dark and wild as the unknown flinty path we came. After
all, things have turned out far better than they might have done. Vight was expecting some
one, and so had the dog within doors. He would have torn you to pieces had he been without
as usual."

"Lead this life no longer. Stay with us, and I will help you to better things," said Annie,
earnestly.

The look of intense longing on the woman's face as the light of the flickering lantern fell
on it would haunt Annie to her dying day.

"Oh that I might!" she groaned. "Oh that I might! A more fearful bondage never cursed a human
soul!"

"And why can you not?" pleaded Annie, putting her hand on the trembling woman's shoulder. "You
have seen better days. You were meant for a good and noble life. You can't sin unfeelingly.
Then why sin at all? Break these chains, and by and by peace in this life and heaven in the
life to come will reward you."

The woman sat down by the roadside, and for a moment her whole frame seemed convulsed with
sobs. At last she said, brokenly, "You plead as my good angel did before it left me--but it's
no use--it's too late. I have indeed seen better days, pure, happy days; and so has he. We
once stood high in the respect of all. But he fell, and I fell in ways I can't explain. You
cannot understand, that as love binds with silken cords, so crime may bind with iron chains.
No more--say no more. You only torment me," she broke in, harshly, as Annie was about to speak
again. "You cannot understand. How could you? We love, hate, and fear each other at the same
time, and death only can part us. But that may soon--that may soon;" and she clenched her hands
with a dark look.

"But enough of this. I have too much to do to tire myself this way. You must go to that house;
I cannot. Old Mrs. Tompkins and her son will give you shelter. I don't wish them to get into
trouble. There will be a close investigation into all this. I know what your father's disposition
is. And now farewell. The only good thing about me is, I shall still pray for you, the only
one who has ever treated me like a woman since--since--since I fell into hell," she said in
a low, hoarse tone, and printing a passionate kiss on Annie's hand, she blew out her light,
and vanished in the darkness.

It seemed to swallow her up, and become a type of the mystery and fate that enshrouded the
forlorn creature. Beyond the bare fact that she took the train the following morning with the
man she called "Vight," Annie never heard of her again. Still there was hope for the wretched
wanderer. However dark and hidden her paths, the eyes of a merciful God ever followed her,
and to that God Annie prayed often in her behalf.

NOTE--This chapter has some historic basis. The man called "Vight" is not altogether an imaginary
character, for a desperate and successful counterfeiter dwelt for a time among the mountains
on the Hudson, plying his nefarious trade. It is said that he took life more than once to escape
detection.

CHAPTER XVIII

IN THE DEPTHS

After the departure of their strange guide, who had befriended them as best she could, Gregory
at once went to the house and knocked. There was a movement within, and a quavering voice asked,
"Who's there?"

"Friends who have lost their way, and need shelter."

"I don't know about lettin' strangers in this time o' night," answered the voice.

"There are only two of us," said Annie. "Perhaps you know who Miss Walton is. I entreat you
to let us in."

"Miss Walton, Miss Walton, sartin, I know who she is. But I can't believe she's here."

"Our wagon broke down this afternoon, and we have lost our way," explained Gregory.

Again there was a stir inside, and soon a glimmer of light. After a few moments the door was
opened slightly, and a woman's voice asked, apprehensively, "Be you sure it's Miss Walton?"

"Yes," said Annie, "you need have no fears. Hold the light, and see for yourself."

This the woman did, and, apparently satisfied, gave them admittance at once.

She seemed quite aged, and a few gray locks straggled out from under her dingy cap, which suggested
anything but a halo around her wrinkled, withered face. A ragged calico wrapper incased her
tall, gaunt form, and altogether she did not make a promising hostess.

Before she could ask her unexpected guests any further questions, the cry of a whippoorwill
was again heard three times. She listened with a startled, frightened manner. The sounds were
repeated, and she seemed satisfied:

"Isn't it rather late in the season for whippoorwills?" asked Annie, uneasily, for this bird's
note, now heard again, seemed like a signal.

"I dunno nothin' about whippoorwills," said the woman, stolidly. "The pesky bird kind o' started
me at first. Don't like to hear 'em round. They bring bad luck. I can't do much for you, Miss
Walton, in this poor place. But such as 'tis you're welcome to stay. My son has been off haulin'
wood; guess he won't be back now afore to-morrow."

"When do you think he will come?" asked Annie, anxiously.

"Well, not much afore night, I guess."

"What will my poor father do?" moaned Annie. "He will be out all night looking for us."

"Sure now, will he though?" said the woman, showing some traces of anxiety herself. "Well,
miss, you'll have to stay till my son gits back, for it's a long way round through the valley
to your house."

There was nothing to do but wait patiently till morning. The woman showed Gregory up into a
loft over the one room of the house, saying, "Here's where my son sleeps. It's the best I can
do, though I s'pose you ain't used to such beds."

He threw his exhausted form on the wretched couch, and soon found respite in troubled sleep.

Annie dozed away the night in a creaky old rocking-chair, the nearest approach to a thing of
comfort that the hovel contained. The old woman had evidently been so "started" that she needed
the sedative of a short clay pipe, highly colored indeed, still a connoisseur in meerschaums
would scarcely covet it. This she would remove from her mouth now and then, as she crouched
on a low stool in the chimney- corner, to shake her head ominously. Perhaps she knew more about
whippoorwills than she admitted. At last it seemed that the fumes, which half strangled Annie,
had their wonted effect, and she hobbled to her bed and was soon giving discordant evidence
of her peace. Annie then noiselessly opened a window, that she too might breathe.

When Gregory waked next morning, it was broad day. He felt so stiff and ill he could scarcely
move, and with difficulty made his way to the room below. The old woman was at the stove, frying
some sputtering pork, and its rank odor was most repulsive to the fastidious habitue of metropolitan
clubs.

"Where is Miss Walton?" he asked, in quick alarm.

"Only gone to the spring after water," replied the woman, shortly. "Why didn't you git up and
git it for her?"

"I would if I had known," he muttered, and he escaped from the intolerable air of the room
to the door, where he met Annie, fresh and rosy from her morning walk and her toilet at the
brook that brawled down the ravine.

"Mr. Gregory, you are certainly ill," she exclaimed. "I am so sorry it has all happened!"

He looked at her wonderingly, and then said, "You appear as if nothing had happened. I am ill,
Miss Walton, and I wish I were dead. You can not feel toward me half the contempt I have for
myself."

"Now, honestly, Mr. Gregory, I have no contempt for you at all."

He turned away and shook his head dejectedly.

"But I mean what I say," she continued, earnestly.

"Then it is your goodness, and not my desert."

"As I told you last night, so again I sincerely say, I think I understand you better than you
do yourself."

"You are mistaken," he answered, with gloomy emphasis. "Your intuitions are quick, I admit.
I have never known your equal in that respect. But there are some things I am glad to think
you never can understand. You can never know what a proud man suffers when he has utterly lost
hope and self-respect. Though I acted so mean a part myself, I can still appreciate your nobleness,
courage, and fidelity to conscience. I thought such heroism belonged only to the past."

"Mr. Gregory, I wish I could make you understand me," said Annie, with real distress in her
tone. "I am not brave; I was more afraid than you. Indeed, I was in an agony of fear. I refused
that man's demand because I was compelled to. If you looked at things as I do, you would have
done the same."

"Please say no more, Miss Walton," said he, his face distorted by an expression of intense
self-loathing. "Do not try to palliate my course. I would much rather you would call my cowardly
selfishness and lack of principle by their right names. The best thing I can do for the world
is to get out of it, and from present feelings, this 'good- riddance' will soon occur. Will
you excuse me if I sit down?" and he sank upon the door-step in utter weakness.

Annie had placed her pail of water on the door-step and forgotten it in her wish to cheer and
help this bitterly wounded spirit.

"Mr. Gregory," she said, earnestly, "you are indeed ill in body and mind, and you take a wrong
and morbid view of everything. My heart aches to show you how complete and perfect a remedy
there is for all this. It almost seems as if you were dying from thirst with that brook yonder
running--"

"There is no remedy for me," interrupted he, almost harshly. Then he added in a weary tone,
pressing his hand on his throbbing brow, "Forgive me, Miss Walton; you see what I am. Please
waste no more thought on me."

"If yer want any breakfast to-day, yer better bring that water," called the old woman from within.

Annie gave him a troubled, anxious look, and then silently carried in the pail.

"Have you any tea?" she asked, not liking the odor of the coffee.

"Mighty little," was the short answer.

"Please let me have some, and I will send you a pound of our best in its place," said Annie.

"I hain't such a fool as to lose that bargain," and the old woman hobbled with alacrity to
a cupboard; but to Annie's dismay the hidden treasure had been hoarded too near the even more
prized tobacco, and seemed redolent of the rank odor of some unsavory preparation of that remarkable
weed which is conjured into so many and such diverse forms. But she brewed a little as best
she could before eating any breakfast herself, and brought it to Gregory as he still sat on
the step, leaning against the door-post.

"Please swallow this as medicine," she said.

"Indeed, Miss Walton, I cannot," he replied.

"Please do," she urged, "as a favor to me. I made it myself; and I can't eat any breakfast
till I have seen you take this."

He at once complied, though with a wry face.

"There," said she, with a touch of playfulness, "I have seldom received a stronger compliment.
After this compliance I think I could venture to ask anything of you."

"The tea is like myself," he answered. "You brought to it skilled hands and pure spring water,
and yet, from the nature of the thing itself, it was a villanous compound. Please don't ask
me to take any more. Perhaps you have heard an old saying, 'Like dislikes like.'"

She determined that he should not yield to this morbid despondency, but had too much tact to
argue with him; therefore she said, kindly, "We never did agree very well, Mr. Gregory, and
don't now. But before many hours I hope I can give you a cup of tea and something with it more
to your taste. I must admit that I am ready even for this dreadful breakfast, that threatens
to destroy my powers of digestion in one fatal hour. You see what a poor subject I am for romance;"
and she smilingly turned away to a meal that gave her a glimpse of how the "other half of the
world lives."

Before she had finished, the sound of wheels and horses' hoofs coming rapidly up the glen brought
her to the door, and with joy she recognized a near neighbor of her father's, a sturdy, kind-hearted
farmer, who had joined in the search for the missing ones the moment he learned, in the dawn
of that morning, that they had not returned.

He gave a glad shout as he saw Annie's form in the doorway, and to her his broad, honest face
was like that of an angel. All are beautiful to those they help.

"Your father is in a dreadful state, Miss Annie," said Farmer Jones; "but I told him if he
would only stay at home and wait, I, and a few other neighbors, would soon find you. He was
up at the foot of the mountain ever since twelve o'clock last night. Then he came home to see
if you hadn't returned some other way. I'm usually out as soon as it's light, so I hailed him
as he passed and asked what on earth he was up for at that time of day. He told me his trouble,
so I hitched up my light wagon and got to your house as soon as he did. When he found you hadn't
come yet, he was for starting right for the mountains, but I saw he wasn't fit, so I says,
'Mr. Walton, you'll just miss 'em. They've taken a wrong road, or the wagon has broken down,
but they'll be home before ten o'clock. Now send Jeff up the road you expected them on. I'll
send Mr. Harris, who lives just beyond me, out on the road they took first. My horse is fast,
and I'll go round up this valley, and in this way we'll soon scour every road;' and so with
much coaxing I got him to promise to stay till I returned. So jump in quick, and I'll have
you home in little over an hour."

"But we can't leave Mr. Gregory here. Let him go first. He is ill, and needs attention immediately."

"Miss Walton, please return at once to your father," said Gregory, quickly. "It is your duty.
I can wait."

"No, Mr. Gregory, it would not be right to leave you here, feeling as you do. As soon as father
knows I am safe his mind will be at rest. I am perfectly well, and you have no idea how ill
you look."

"Miss Walton," said Gregory, in a tone that was almost harsh in its decisiveness, "I will not
return now."

"I am real sorry," said Mr. Jones, "that my wagon is not larger, but I took the best thing
that I had for fast driving over rough roads. Come, Miss Walton, your friend has settled it,
and if he is sick he had better come more slowly in an easier carriage."

After cordially thanking the old woman for such rude hospitality as she had bestowed, and renewing
her promise to send ample recompense, she turned with gentle courtesy to Gregory and assured
him that he would not have long to wait.

He gave her a quick, searching look, and said, "Miss Walton, I do not understand how you can
speak to me in this way. But go at once. Do not keep your father in suspense any longer."

"I hope we shall find you better when we come for you," she said, kindly.

"It were better if you found me dead," he said, in sudden harshness, but it was toward himself,
not her.

So she understood it, and waving her hand encouragingly, was rapidly driven away.

As they rode along she related to Mr. Jones the events already known to the reader, but carefully
shielded Gregory from blame. She also satisfied her companion's evident curiosity about the
young man by stating so frankly all it was proper for him to know that he had no suspicion
of anything concealed. She explained his last and unusual expression by dwelling with truth
on the fact that Gregory appeared seriously ill and was deeply depressed in spirits.

Mr. Walton received his daughter with a joy beyond words. She was the idol of his heart--the
one object on earth that almost rivalled his "treasures in heaven." His mind had dwelt in agonized
suspense on a thousand possibilities of evil during the prolonged hours of her absence, and
now that he clasped her again, and was assured of her safety, he lifted his eyes heavenward
with overflowing gratitude in his heart.

But Annie's success in keeping up before him was brief. The strain had been a little too severe.
She soon gave way to nervous prostration and headache, and was compelled to retire to her room
instead of returning for Gregory as she had intended. But he was promptly sent for, Miss Eulie
going in her place, and taking every appliance possible for his comfort.

She found him in Mrs. Tompkins's hovel, sitting in the creaky arm- chair that Annie had occupied
the night before, and enduring with a white, grim face the increasing suffering of his illness.
He seemed to have reached the depths of despair, and, believing the end near, determined to
meet it with more than Indian stoicism.

Many, in their suicidal blindness and remorse, pass sentence upon themselves, and weakly deliver
their souls into the keeping of that inexorable jailer, Despair, forgetting the possibilities--nay,
certainties--of good that ever dwell in God. If man had no better friend than himself, his
prospects would be sombre indeed. Many a one has condemned himself and sunk into the apathy
of death, but He who came to seek and to save the lost has lifted him with the arms of forgiving
love, and helped him back to the safety and happiness of the fold. Satan only, never the Saviour,
bids the sinner despair. But poor Gregory was taking advice from his enemy and not from his
Friend. During the long hours of pain and almost mortal weakness of that dreary morning, he
acknowledged himself vanquished--utterly defeated in the battle of life. As old monkish legends
teach, the devil might have carried him off bodily and he would not have resisted. In his prostrated
nature, but one element of strength was apparent--a perverted pride that rose like a shattered,
blackened shaft, the one prominent relic of seemingly utter ruin.

At first he coldly declined the cordial and nourishment Miss Eulie brought, and said, with
a quietness that did not comport with the meaning of his words, that she had better leave him
to himself, for he would not make trouble for any one much longer.

Miss Eulie was shocked, finding in these words and in his general appearance proof that he
was more seriously ill than she had anticipated.

He was indeed; but his malady was rather that of a morbid mind depressing an enfeebled body
than actual disease. But mental distress could speedily kill a man like Gregory.

Miss Eulie soon brought him to terms by saying, "Mr. Gregory, you see I am alone. Mr. Walton
was too exhausted to accompany me, and Annie did not send any of the neighbors, as she thought
the presence of strangers would be irksome to you."

"She said she would come herself, but she has had time to think and judge me rightly," muttered
he, interrupting her.

"No, Mr. Gregory," Miss Eulie hastened to say; "you do her wrong. She was too ill to come,
as she intended and wished to do, and so with many anxious charges sent me in her place. I
am but a woman, and dependent on your courtesy. I cannot compel you to go with me. But I am
sure you will not wrong my brother's hospitality, and make Miss Walton's passing indisposition
serious, by refusing to come with me. If you did she would rise from her sick bed and come
herself."

Gregory at once rose and said, "I can make no excuse for myself. I seem fated to do and say
the worst things possible under the circumstances."

"You are ill," said Miss Eulie, kindly, as if that explained everything.

Declining aid, he tottered to the carriage, into which Jeff, with some curious surmises, helped
him.

Miss Eulie made good Annie's promises to Mrs. Tompkins fourfold, and left the shrivelled dame
with a large supply of one of the elements of her heaven--tea, and with the means of purchasing
the other--tobacco, besides more substantial additions to the old woman's meagre larder.

Gregory was averse to conversation during the long, slow ride. The jolting, even of the easy
cushioned carriage, was exceedingly painful, and by the time they reached home he was quite
exhausted. Leaning on Mr. Walton's arm he at once went to his room, and at their urgent entreaties
forced himself to take a little of the dainty supper that was forthcoming. But their kindly
solicitude was courteously but coldly repelled. Acting reluctantly upon his plainly manifested
wish, they soon left him to himself, as after his first eager inquiry concerning Miss Walton
it seemed a source of pain to him to see or speak to any one.

At first his arm-chair and the cheery wood-fire formed a pale reflection of something like
comfort, but every bone in his body ached from the recent cold he had taken. He had just fever
enough to increase the distortion of the images of his morbid and excited mind. Hour after
hour he sat with grim white face and fixed stare, scourging himself with the triple scorpion-whip
of remorse, vain regret, and self-disgust. But an old and terrible enemy was stealing on him
to change the nature of his torment--neuralgic headache; and before morning he was walking
the floor in agony, a sad type, while the world slept and nature rested, of that large class,
all whose relations, physical and moral, are a jangling discord.

CHAPTER XIX

MISS WALTON MADE OF DIFFERENT CLAY FROM OTHERS

Simple remedies and prolonged rest were sufficient to restore Annie after the serious shock
and strain she had sustained. She rose even earlier than usual, and hastily dressed that she
might resume her wonted place as mistress of her father's household. In view of her recent
peril and the remediless loss he might have suffered, she was doubly grateful for the privilege
of ministering to his wants and filling his declining years with cheer and comfort.

She had not been awake long before Gregory's irregular steps in the adjoining room aroused
her attention and caused anxious surmises. But she was inclined to think that his restlessness
resulted from mental distress rather than physical. Still she did not pity him less, but rather
more. Though so young, she knew that the "wounded spirit" often inflicts the keener agony.
Her strong womanly nature was deeply moved in his behalf. As we have seen, it was her disposition
to be helpful and sustaining, rather than clinging and dependent. She had a heart "at leisure
from itself, to soothe and sympathize." From the depths of her soul she pitied Gregory and
wished to help him out of a state which the psalmist with quaint force describes as "a horrible
pit and the miry clay."

She was a very practical reformer, and determined that a dainty breakfast should minister to
the outer man before she sought to apply a subtler balm to the inner. Trusting not even to
Zibbie's established skill, she prepared with her own hands some inviting delicacies, and soon
that which might have tempted the most exacting of epicures was ready.

Mr. Walton shared the delight of the children at seeing Annie bustling round again as the good
genius of their home, and Miss Eulie's little sighs of content were as frequent as the ripples
on the shore. Miss Eulie could sigh and wipe a tear from the corner of her eye in the most
cheerful and hope-inspiring way, for somehow her face shone with an inward radiance, and, even
in the midst of sorrow and when wet with tears, reminded one of a lantern on a stormy night,
which, covered with rain-drops, still gives light and comfort.

Breakfast was ready, but Gregory did not appear. Hannah, the waitress, was sent to his room,
and in response to her quiet knock he said, sharply, "Well?"

"Breakfast is waiting."

"I do not wish any," was the answer, in a tone that seemed resentful, but was only an expression
of the intolerable pain he was suffering. Hannah came down with a scared look and said she
"guessed something was amiss with Mr. Gregory."

Annie looked significantly at her father, who immediately ascended to his guest's door.

"Mr. Gregory, may I come in?" he asked.

"Do not trouble yourself. I shall be better soon," was the response.

The door was unlocked, and Mr. Walton entered, and saw at once that a gentle but strong will
must control the sufferer for his own good. Mental and nervous excitement had driven him close
to the line where reason and his own will wavered in their decisions, and his irregular, tottering
steps became the type of the whole man. His eyes were wild and bloodshot. A ghastly pallor
gave his haggard face the look of death. A damp dullness pervaded the heavy air of the room,
which in his unrest he had greatly disordered. The fire had died out, and he had not even tried
to kindle it again. His broodings had been so deep and painful during the earlier part of the
night that he had been oblivious of his surroundings, and then physical anguish became so sharp
that all small elements of discomfort were unnoted.

With fatherly solicitude Mr. Waiton stepped up to his guest, who stood staring at him as if
he were an intruder, and taking his cold hand, said, "Mr. Gregory, you must come with me."

"Where?"

"To the sitting-room, where we can take care of you and relieve you. Come, I'm your physician
for the time being, and doctors must be obeyed."

Gregory had not undressed the night before, and, wrapped in his rich dressing-gown and with
dishevelled hair, he mechanically followed his host to the room below and was placed on the lounge.

"Annie has prepared you a nice little breakfast. Won't you let me bring it to you?" said Mr.
Waiton, cheerily.

"No," said Gregory, abruptly, and pressing his hands upon his throbbing temples, "the very
thought of eating is horrible. Please leave me. Indeed I cannot endure even your kindly presence."

Mr. Walton looked perplexed and scarcely knew what to do, but after a moment said, "Really,
Mr. Gregory, you are very ill. I think I had better send for our physician at once."

"I insist that you do not," said his guest, starting up. "What could a stupid country doctor
do for me, with his owl-like examination of my tongue and clammy fingering of my pulse, but
drive me mad? I must be alone."

"Father," said Annie, in a firm and quiet voice, "I will be both nurse and physician to Mr.
Gregory this morning. If I fail, you may send for a doctor."

Unperceived she had entered, and from Gregory's manner and words understood his condition.

"Miss Waiton," said Gregory, hastily, "I give you warning. I am not even the poor weak self
you have known before, and I beg you leave me till this nervous headache passes off, if it
ever does. I can't control myself at such times, and this is the worst attack I ever had. I
am low enough in your esteem. Do not add to my pain by being present now at the time of my
greatest weakness."

"Mr. Gregory," she replied, "you may speak and act your worst, but you shall not escape me
this morning. It's woman's place to remove pain, not fly from it. So you must submit with the
best grace you can. If after I have done all in my power you prefer the doctor and another
nurse, I will give way, but now you have no choice."

Gregory fell back on the sofa with a groan and a muttered oath. At a sign from his daughter,
Mr. Walton reluctantly and doubtfully passed through the open door into the parlor, where he
was joined by Miss Eulie.

Annie quietly stepped to the hearth and stirred the fire to a cheerful blaze. She then went
to the parlor and brought the afghan, and without so much as saying, "by your leave," spread
it over his chilled form.

Gregory felt himself helpless, but there was something soothing in this assertion of her strong
will, and like a sick child he was better the moment he ceased to chafe and struggle.

She left the room a few moments, and even between the surges of pain he was curious as to what
she would do next. He soon learned with a thrill of hope that he was to experience the magnetism
of her touch, and to know the power of the hand that had seemed alive in his grasp on the day
of their chestnutting expedition. Annie returned with a quaint little bottle of German cologne,
and, taking a seat quietly by his side, began bathing his aching temples.

"You treat me like a child," he said, petulantly.

"I hope for a while you will be content to act like one," she replied.

"I may, like a very bad one."

"No matter," she said, with a laugh that was the very antidote of morbidness; "I am accustomed
to manage children."

But in a very brief time he had no disposition to shrink from her touch or presence. Her hand
upon his brow seemed to communicate her own strong, restful life; his temples throbbed less
and less violently. Silent and wondering he lay very still, conscious that by some subtle power
she was exorcising the demons of pain. His hurried breathing became regular; his hands unclinched;
his form, which had been tense and rigid, relaxed into a position of comfort. He felt that
he was under some beneficent spell, and for an hour scarcely moved lest he should break it
and his torment return. Annie was equally silent, but with a smile saw the effects of her ministry.
At last she looked into his face, and said, with an arch smile, "Shall I send for Doctor Bludgeon
and Sairy Gamp to take my place?"

He was very weak and unstrung, and while a tremulous smile hovered about his mouth, his eyes
so moistened that he turned toward the wall. After a moment he said, "Miss Walton, I am not
worthy of your kindness."

"Nor are you unworthy. But kindness is not a matter of business--so much for so much."

"Why do you waste your time on me?"

"That is a childish question. What a monster I should be if I heedlessly left you to suffer!
The farmers' wives around would mob me."

"I am very grateful for the relief you are giving me, even though mere humanity is the motive."

"Mere humanity is not my motive. You are our guest, the son of my father's dearest friend,
and for your own sake I am deeply interested in you."

"Miss Walton, I know in the depths of your soul you are disgusted with me. You seek to apply
those words to my spirit as you do cologne to my head."

"I beg your pardon. It is not the cologne only that relieves your headache."

"I know that well. It is your touch, which seems magical."

"Well then, you should know from my touch that I am not sitting here telling fibs. If I should
bathe your head with a wooden hand, wouldn't you know it?"

"What an odd simile! I cannot understand you." "It is not necessary that you should, but do
not wrong me by doubting me again."

"I have done nothing but wrong you, Miss Walton."

"I'm not conscious of it, so you needn't worry, and I assure you I find it a pleasure to do
you good."

"Miss Walton, you are the essence of goodness."

"Oh, no, no; why say of a creature what is only true of God? Mr. Gregory, you are very extravagant
in your language."

A scowl darkened his face, and he said, moodily, "God seems to me the essence of cruelty."

"'Seems, seems!' An hour since I seemed a torment, and you were driving me away."

"Yes, but you soon proved yourself a kind, helpful, pitiful friend. I once thought my cheek
would flame with anger even if I were dying, should I be regarded as an object of pity. But
you, better than any one, know that I am one."

"I, better than any one, know that you are not, in the sense you mean."

"Come, Miss Walton, you cannot be sincere now. Do you think I can ever forget the miserable
scene of Monday evening, when you placed yourself beside the martyrs and I sank down among
the cowards of any age? I reached the bottom of the only perdition I believe in. I have lost
my self-respect."

"Which I trust God will help you regain by showing you the only sure and safe ground on which
self-respect can be maintained. Much that is called self-respect is nothing but pride. But,
Mr. Gregory, injustice to one's self is as wrong as injustice to another. Answer me honestly
this question. Did you act that evening only from fear--because you have it not in you to face
danger? or did you promise secrecy because you felt the man's crime was none of your business,
and supposed I would take the same view?"

Gregory started up and looked at her with a face all aglow with honest, grateful feeling, and
said, "God knows the latter is the truth."

"And I know it too. I knew it then."

"But the world could never be made to see it in that light."

"Now pride speaks. Self-respect does not depend upon the opinion of the world. The world has
nothing to do with the matter. You certainly do not expect I am going to misrepresent you before
it."

He bent a look upon her such as she had never sustained before. It was the look of a man who
had discovered something divine and precious beyond words. It was a feeling such as might thrill
one who was struggling in darkness, and, as he supposed, sinking in the deep sea, but whose
feet touched something which seemed to sustain him. The thought, "I can trust her--she is true,"
came to him at that time with such a blessed power to inspire hope and give relief that for
a moment he could not speak. Then he began, "Miss Walton, I cannot find words--"

"Do not find them," she interrupted, laughingly. "See, your temples are beginning to throb
again, and I am a sorry nurse, a true disciple of Mrs. Gamp, to let you excite yourself. Lie
down, sir, at once, and let your thoughts dwell the next half-hour on your breakfast. You have
much reason for regret that the dainty little tidbits that I first prepared are spoiled by
this time. I doubt whether I can do so well again."

"I do not wish any breakfast. Please do not leave me yet."

