

                        THE TRUE MISSION OF SEX

This rebirth of the individual in his descendants represents the true mission of sex where
the human being is concerned. And reproduction, the perpetuation of the species, underlies
all rightful and normal sex functions and activities. The actual physical process of reproduction,
the details which initiate reproduction in the case of the human being, it seems unnecessary
here to describe. In the animal world, into which the moral equation does not really enter,
the facts of conjugation represent a simple and natural working-out of functional bodily laws,
usually with a seasonal determination. But where man is concerned these facts are so largely
made to serve the purposes of pruriency, so exploited to inflame the imagination in an undesirable
and directly harmful way that they can be approached only with the utmost caution.

The intimate fact knowledge necessary in this connection is of a peculiarly personal and sacred
nature, and represents information which is better communicated by the spoken than by the printed
word. The wise father and mother are those naturally indicated to convey this information to
their sons and daughters by word of mouth. By analogy, by fuller development and description
of the reproductive processes of plant and animal life on which we have touched, the matter
of human procreation may be approached. Parents should stress the point, when trying to present
this subject to the youthful mind, that man's special functions are only a detail--albeit a
most important one--in nature's vast plan for the propagation of life on earth. This will have
the advantage of correcting a trend on the part of the imaginative boy or girl to lay too much
stress on the part humanity plays in this great general reproductive scheme. It will lay weight
on the fact that the functional workings of reproduction are not, primarily, a source of pleasure,
but that--when safeguarded by the institution of matrimony, on which civilized social life
is based--they stand for the observance of solemn duties and obligations, duties to church
and state, and obligations to posterity. Hence, parents, in talking to their children about
these matters should do so in a sober and instructive fashion. The attention of a mother, perhaps,
need not be called to this. But fathers may be inclined, in many cases, to inform their sons
without insisting that the information they give them is, in the final analysis, intended to
be applied to lofty constructive purposes. They may, in their desire to speak practically,
forget the moral values which should underlie this intimate information. Never should the spirit
of levity intrude itself in these intimate personal sex colloquies. Restraint and decency should
always mark them.

In making clear to the mind of youth the fact data which initiates and governs reproduction
in animal and in human life, the ideal to be cultivated is continence, the refraining from
all experimentation undertaken in a spirit of curiosity, until such time as a well-placed affection,
sanctioned by the divine blessing, will justify a sane and normal exploitation of physical
needs and urges in the matrimonial state. To this end hard bodily and mental work should be
encouraged in the youth of both sexes. "Satan finds work for idle hands to do," has special
application in this connection, and a chaste and continent youth is usually the forerunner
of a happy and contented marriage. And incidentally, a happy marriage is the best guarantee
that reproduction, the carrying on of the species, will be morally and physically a success.
Here, too, the fact should be strongly stressed that prostitution cannot be justified on any
moral grounds. It represents a deliberate ignoring of the rightful function of sex, and the
perversion of the sane and natural laws of reproduction.