THE HISTORY

OF

Dartmouth College.

BY

BAXTER PERRY SMITH.

BOSTON:

HOUGHTON, OSGOOD AND COMPANY.

The Riverside Press, Cambridge.

1878.

Copyright, 1878,

by Baxter Perry Smith.

The Riverside Press, Cambridge:

Printed by H. O. Houghton and Company.

PREFACE.

In the preparation of this work the writer has deemed it better to let history, as far as possible,
tell its own story, regarding reliability as preferable to unity of style.

The imperfect records of all our older literary institutions, limit their written history,
in large measure, to a record of the lives and labors of their teachers.

To the many friends of the college, and others, who have kindly given their aid, the writer
is under large obligations.

The following names deserve especial notice: Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, Hon. Charles L. Woodbury,
Hon. R. R. Bishop, Wm. H. Duncan, Esq., Richard B. Kimball, Esq., Rev. Eden B. Foster, D.D.,
Hon. James Barrett, N. C. Berry, Esq., Dr. F. E. Oliver, Hon. J. E. Sargent, Dr. C. A. Walker,
Hon. A. O. Brewster, Hon. A. A. Ranney, Dr. W. M. Chamberlain, Hon. James W. Patterson, Rev.
Carlos Slafter, Hon. J. B. D. Cogswell, Gen. John Eaton, Rev. H. A. Hazen, Rev. S. L. B. Speare,
H. N. Twombly, Esq., Caleb Blodgett, Esq., Hon. Benj. F. Prescott, Dr. C. H. Spring, Prof.
C. O. Thompson, Hon. Frederic Chase, Rev. W. J. Tucker, D.D., L. G. Farmer, Esq., and N. W.
Ladd, Esq.

With profound gratitude he mentions also the name of Hon. Nathan Crosby, but for whose valuable
pecuniary aid the publication of the work must have been delayed; and the names of Hon. Joel
Parker, Hon. William P. Haines, Hon. John P. Healy, Hon. Lincoln F. Brigham, John D. Philbrick,
Esq., Dr. Jabez B. Upham, Hon. Harvey Jewell, and Hon. Walbridge A. Field, who have aided in
a similar manner. Particular mention should also be made of the kindness of gentlemen connected
with numerous libraries, especially that of Mr. John Ward Deane, and Mr. Albert H. Hoyt, and
the late J. Wingate Thornton, Esq., of the New England Historic-Genealogical Society, by whose
kindness the writer was furnished with the valuable letter from David McClure to General Knox,
and Rev. Alonzo H. Quint, D.D., and Dr. Samuel A. Green, of the Massachusetts Historical Society,
to whom he is indebted for the invaluable list of English donations given in the Appendix.
Valuable aid has been rendered also by Messrs. Kimball and Secor, of the New Hampshire State
and State Historical Society Libraries, at Concord. In this connection the well known names
of W. S. Butler, Prof. F. B. Dexter, Hon. C. J. Hoadley, F. B. Perkins, Hon. J. Hammond Trumbull,
and Hon. E. P. Walton also deserve notice.

The writer is deeply indebted to Hon. John Wentworth, of Chicago, for his kindness in examining
the more important portions of the work previous to its publication.

For the carefully-prepared draught of the original college edifice, the writer is indebted
to the artistic skill of Mr. Arthur Bruce Colburn.

In closing, especial mention should be made of the kindness of Prof. Charles Hammond, Marcus
D. Gilman, Esq., and others representing the family of the founder, of the family of Hon. Elisha
Payne, an early and honored Trustee, of the Trustees and Faculty of the college, and the courteous
liberality of the publishers.

BAXTER P. SMITH.

Brookline, Mass., June, 1878.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

  Introduction                                                   1

CHAPTER II.

  Ancestry and Early Life of Eleazar Wheelock.--His Settlement
  at Lebanon.--Establishment of the Indian Charity
  School.--Mr. Joshua More                                       6

CHAPTER III.

  Education in New Hampshire.--Action in Regard to a
  College.--Testimonial of Connecticut Clergymen.--Legislative
  Grant to Mr. Wheelock                                         15

CHAPTER IV.

  A College Contemplated by Mr. Wheelock.--Lord
  Dartmouth.--Occom and Whitaker in Great Britain               23

CHAPTER V.

  Sir William Johnson.--Explorations for a Location.--Advice
  of English Trustees                                           29

CHAPTER VI.

  A College Charter                                             40

CHAPTER VII.

  President Wheelock's Personal Explorations in New
  Hampshire.--Location at Hanover                               49

CHAPTER VIII.

  Commencement of Operations.--Course of Study.--Policy of
  Administration                                                57

CHAPTER IX.

  Progress to the Death of President Wheelock.--Prominent
  Features of his Character                                     65

CHAPTER X.

  Progress During the Administration of the Second President,
  John Wheelock                                                 76

CHAPTER XI.

  Lack of Harmony Between President Wheelock and Other
  Trustees.--Removal of the President From Office.--Estimate
  of His Character                                              88

CHAPTER XII.

  Administration of President Brown.--Contest Between The
  College and the State.--Triumph of the College               100

CHAPTER XIII.

  Character of President Brown.--Tributes by Professor
  Haddock And Rufus Choate                                     117

CHAPTER XIV.

  Progress From 1820 to 1828.--Administrations of President
  Dana and President Tyler                                     126

CHAPTER XV.

  Inauguration of President Lord                               143

CHAPTER XVI.

  The Policy of the College, its Progress and Enlargement
  under President Lord's Administration from 1828 to 1863      157

CHAPTER XVII.

  Character of President Lord                                  168

CHAPTER XVIII.

  Administration of President Smith                            177

CHAPTER XIX.

  Inauguration of President Bartlett                           190

CHAPTER XX.

  Prof. John Smith.--Prof. Sylvanus Ripley.--Prof. Bezaleel
  Woodward                                                     211

CHAPTER XXI.

  Prof. John Hubbard.--Prof. Roswell Shurtleff                 225

CHAPTER XXII.

  Prof. Ebenezer Adams.--Prof. Zephaniah S. Moore.--Prof.
  Charles B. Haddock                                           241

CHAPTER XXIII.

  Prof. William Chamberlain.--Prof. Daniel Oliver.--Prof.
  James Freeman Dana                                           256

CHAPTER XXIV.

  Prof. Benjamin Hale.--Prof. Alpheus Crosby.--Prof. Ira
  Young                                                        276

CHAPTER XXV.

  Prof. Stephen Chase.--Prof. David Peabody.--Prof. William
  Cogswell                                                     298

CHAPTER XXVI.

  Prof. John Newton Putnam.--Prof. John S. Woodman.--Prof.
  Clement Long.--Other Teachers                                316

CHAPTER XXVII.

  Medical Department.--Professors Nathan Smith, Reuben D.
  Mussey, Dixi Crosby, Edmund R. Peaslee, Albert Smith, and
  Alpheus B. Crosby--Other Teachers                            339

CHAPTER XXVIII.

  The Chandler Scientific Department.--The Agricultural
  Department.--The Thayer Department of Civil Engineering      367

CHAPTER XXIX.

  Benefactors.--Trustees                                       380

CHAPTER XXX.

  Labors of Dartmouth Alumni.--Conclusion                      395

DARTMOUTH COLLEGE.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTION.

The most valuable part of a nation's history portrays its institutions of learning and religion.

The alumni of a college which has moulded the intellectual and moral character of not a few
of the illustrious living, or the more illustrious dead,--the oldest college in the valley
of the Connecticut, and the only college in an ancient and honored State,--would neglect a
most fitting and beautiful service, should they suffer the cycles of a century to pass, without
gathering in some modest urn the ashes of its revered founders, or writing on some modest tablet
the names of its most distinguished sons.

The germ of Dartmouth College was a deep-seated and long-cherished desire, of the foremost
of its founders, to elevate the Indian race in America.

The Christian fathers of New England were not unmindful of the claims of the Aborigines. The
well-directed, patient, and successful labors of the Eliots, Cotton, and the Mayhews, and the
scarcely less valuable labors of Treat and others, fill a bright page in the religious history
of the seventeenth century. To numerous congregations of red men the gospel was preached; many
were converted; churches were gathered, and the whole Bible--the first printed in America--was
given them in their own language.

This interest in the Indian was not confined to our own country, in the earlier periods of
our history. In Great Britain, sovereigns, ecclesiastics, and philosophers recognized the obligations
providentially imposed upon them, to aid in giving a Christian civilization to their swarthy
brethren, who were sitting in the thickest darkness of heathenism in the primeval forests of
the New World. Societies, as well as individuals, manifested a deep and practical interest
in the work.

We can only touch upon some of the more salient points of this subject. But it is especially
worthy of note, that the elevation of the Indian race, by the education of its youth, was not
an idea of New England, nor indeed of American, birth.

In Stith's "History of Virginia" (p. 162), we find in substance the following statements: At
an early period in the history of this State, attempts were made to establish an institution
of learning of a high order. In 1619, the treasurer of the Virginia Company, Sir Edwin Sandys,
received from an unknown hand five hundred pounds, to be applied by the Company to the education
of a certain number of Indian youths in the English language and in the Christian religion.
Other sums of money were also procured, and there was a prospect of being able to raise four
or five thousand pounds, for the endowment of a college. The king favored the design, and recommended
to the bishops to have collections made in their dioceses, and some fifteen hundred pounds
were gathered on this recommendation. The college was designed for the instruction of English,
as well as Indian, youths. The Company appropriated ten thousand acres of land to this purpose,
at Henrico, on James River, a little below the present site of Richmond. The plan of the college
was, to place tenants at halves on these lands, and to derive its income from the profits.
The enterprise was abandoned in consequence of the great Indian massacre, in 1622, although
operations had been commenced, and a competent person had been secured to act as president.
This is believed to have been the first effort to found a college in America.

Passing to the middle of the century, we find the distinguished Christian philosopher, Robert
Boyle, appointed governor of "a company incorporated for the propagation of the gospel among
the heathen natives of New England, and the parts adjacent in America," and that, after his
decease, in 1691, a portion of his estate was given, by the executors of his will, to William
and Mary's College, which was possibly, in a measure, the outgrowth of the efforts of Mr. Sandys
and his coadjutors, for the support of Indian students.

In 1728, Col. William Byrd, in writing upon this subject, laments "the bad success Mr. Boyle's
charity has had in converting the natives," which was owing in part, at least, to the fact,
that the interest of their white brethren in their welfare was confined chiefly to their residence
at college.

Pursuing these researches, we come to the name of another distinguished British scholar and
divine, George Berkeley, who has been styled "the philosopher" of the reign of George II. I
discourage him by the coldness of courts and ministers, who will interpret all this as impossible
and a vision, but nothing will do. And therefore I do humbly entreat your Excellency either
to use such persuasions as will keep one of the first men in this kingdom for learning and
virtue quiet at home, or assist him by your credit to compass his romantic design, which, however,
is very noble and generous, and directly proper for a great person of your excellent education
to encourage."

The pamphlet alluded to begins, as one of his biographers informs us, by lamenting "that there
is at this day little sense of religion and a most notorious corruption of manners in the English
colonies settled on the continent of America, and the islands," and that "the Gospel hath hitherto
made but very inconsiderable progress among the neighboring Americans, who still continue in
much the same ignorance and barbarism in which we found them above a hundred years ago." After
stating what he believes to be the causes of this state of things, he propounds his plan of
training young natives, as missionaries to their countrymen, and educating "the youth of our
English plantations," to fill the pulpits of the colonial churches. His biographer is doubtless
correct in the opinion, that "it was on the savages, evidently, that he had his heart."

He obtained a charter from the crown for his proposed college, and a promise, never fulfilled,
of large pecuniary aid from the government, and early in 1729 he arrived in America, settling
temporarily at Newport, R. I. Failing to accomplish his purpose, he remained in this country
but two or three years, yet long enough to form the acquaintance of many eminent men, and among
them President Williams, of Yale College.

Finding that there was no prospect of receiving the promised aid for his college, Berkeley
returned to England in 1731. Soon after, in addition to a large and valuable donation of books
for the library, he sent as a gift, to Yale, a deed of his farm in Rhode Island, the rents
of which he directed to be appropriated to the maintenance or aid of meritorious resident graduates
or under-graduates.

Although he failed to carry out his plan of establishing a college himself, in America, perhaps
he "builded better than he knew." Most fitting is it, as we shall see hereafter, for the current
literature of our day to place in intimate association, the names of Boyle, Berkeley, and Dartmouth.

Passing to 1734, we find Rev. John Sergeant commencing missionary labor among the Indians at
Stockbridge, Mass. After a trial of a few years, he writes in a manner showing very plainly
that he believes civilization essential to any permanent success. In one of his letters to
Rev. Dr. Colman, of Boston, he says: "What I propose, in general, is, to take such a method
in the education of our Indian children as shall in the most effectual manner change their
whole manner of thinking and acting, and raise them as far as possible into the condition of
a civil, industrious, and polished people, while at the same time the principles of virtue
and piety shall be instilled into their minds in a way that will make the most lasting impression,
and withal to introduce the English language among them instead of their own barbarous dialect."

"And now to accomplish this design, I propose to procure an accommodation of 200 acres of land
in this place (which may be had gratis of the Indian proprietors), and to erect a house on
it such as shall be thought convenient for a beginning, and in it to maintain a number of children
and youth." He proposes "to have their time so divided between study and labor that one shall
be the diversion of the other, so that as little time as possible may be lost in idleness,"
and, "to take into the number, upon certain conditions, youths from any of the other tribes
around." His plan included both sexes. Mr. Sergeant died in 1749. Besides accomplishing much
himself, he laid the foundations for the subsequent labors of Jonathan Edwards.

This rapid glance at the earlier efforts in behalf of the Aborigines of our country, shows
that the next actor upon the stage, undaunted by any lack of success on their part, measurably
followed in the footsteps of learned and philanthropic predecessors.

Eleazar Wheelock, the leading founder of Dartmouth College, was a great-grandson of Ralph Wheelock,
a native of Shropshire, in England, through whom Dartmouth traces her academic ancestry to
the ancient and venerable Clare Hall, at Cambridge, where he graduated in 1626, the contemporary
of Thomas Dudley, Samuel Eaton, John Milton, John Norton, Thomas Shepard, and Samuel Stone.

Coming a few years later to this country, he became a useful and an honored citizen of the
then new, but now old, historic town of Dedham, from which place he removed to Medfield, being
styled "founder" of that town, where he remained till his death. He devoted his time largely
to teaching, although, having been educated for the ministry, he rendered valuable service
to the infant community as an occasional preacher. His name is also conspicuous among the magistrates
and legislators of that period.[1]

      [1] His daughter Rebecca married John Craft, whose birth is the
          earliest on record among the pioneer settlers at Roxbury. Some
          of his descendants (by another marriage) are conspicuous in
          history. Medfield records connect the names of Fuller,
          Chenery, and Morse with the Wheelock family.

In the character of his son, Eleazar Wheelock, of Mendon, we are told there was a union of
"the Christian and the soldier." Having command of a corps of cavalry, he was "very successful
in repelling the irruptions of the Indians," although he treated them with "great kindness,"
in times of peace. From him, his grandson and namesake received "a handsome legacy for defraying
the expenses of his public education," and from him, too, he doubtless acquired, in some measure,
that peculiar interest in the Indian race which so largely moulded his character and guided
the labors of his life.

Near the time of Ralph Wheelock's arrival in America, were two other arrivals worthy of notice:
that of Thomas Hooker, at Cambridge, "the one rich pearl with which Europe more than repaid
America for the treasures from her coasts," and that of the widowed Margaret Huntington, at
Roxbury, of which there is still a well-preserved record, in the handwriting of John Eliot.
The guiding and controlling influence of Hooker's masterly mind upon all, whether laymen or
divines, with whom he came in contact, must be apparent to those who are familiar with the
biography of one, to whom the learned and religious institutions of New England are more indebted,
perhaps, than to any other single person. Hooker's settlement at Hartford is fitly styled "the
founding of Connecticut."

When a little later the family of Margaret Huntington settled at Saybrook, their youthful pastor,
who was just gathering a church, was James Fitch, a worthy pupil of Thomas Hooker. Not satisfied
with their location, pastor and people sought an inland home, and in 1660 laid the foundations
of what is now the large and flourishing town of Norwich. From this time Huntington and Fitch
are honored names in the history of Connecticut.

A quarter of a century after the settlement of Norwich, an English refugee from religious oppression
began the settlement of the neighboring town of Windham. To this place, Ralph Wheelock the
younger, a grandson of the Dedham teacher and preacher, was attracted, marrying about the same
time, Ruth, daughter of Dea. Christopher Huntington, of Norwich. Mr. Ralph Wheelock was a respectable
farmer, universally esteemed for his hospitality, his piety, and the virtues that adorn the
Christian character, and in his later years was an officer of the church.

Of Mrs. Wheelock, it is said:[2] "Every tradition respecting her makes her a woman of unusual
intelligence and rare piety. Her home, the main theatre of her life, was blessed equally by
her timely instructions, her holy example, and the administration of a gentle yet firm discipline."
Their son Eleazar was born at Windham, April 22, 1711.

      [2] Huntington Family Memoir, p. 78.

The first minister of this honored town was Rev. Samuel Whiting, a native of Hartford, and
trained in the "Hooker School." For a helpmeet he had secured a lineal descendant of that noble
and revered puritan, Gov. Wm. Bradford. The labors of this worthy pair were largely blessed
to their people. At one period, in a population of hundreds, it is said "the town did not contain
a single prayerless family."

Thus kindly and wisely did the Master arrange, by long and closely blended lines of events,
that the most genial influences should surround the cradle of one for whom He designed eminent
service and peculiar honor.

The mother of Eleazar Wheelock having died in 1725, for a second wife his father married a
lady named Standish, a descendant of Myles Standish, whose heroic character she perhaps impressed,
in some measure, upon her adopted son. "Being an only son," says his biographer,[3] "and discovering,
at an early age, a lively genius, a taste for learning, with a very amiable disposition, he
was placed by his father under the best instructors that could then be obtained." At "about
the age of sixteen, while qualifying himself for admission to college, it pleased God to impress
his mind with serious concern for his salvation. After earnest, prayerful inquiry, he was enlightened
and comforted with that hope in the Saviour, which afterwards proved the animating spring of
his abundant labors to promote the best interests of mankind." At the time of his admission
to the Windham church, the distinguished Thomas Clap was its pastor.

      [3] Memoirs of Wheelock, by McClure and Parish.

Having made the requisite preparation, he entered Yale College, of which President Williams
was then at the head, "with a resolution to devote himself to the work of the Gospel ministry."
Among his college contemporaries were Joseph Bellamy and President Aaron Burr.

"His proficiency in study, and his exemplary deportment, engaged the notice and esteem of the
rector and instructors, and the love of the students. He and his future brother-in-law, the
late Rev. Doctor Pomeroy of Hebron, in Connecticut, were the first who received the interest
of the legacy, generously given by the Rev. Dean Berkeley," for excellence in classical scholarship.

Soon after his graduation, in 1733, he commenced preaching. Having declined a call from Long
Island, to settle in the ministry, he accepted a unanimous invitation from the Second Congregational
Society in Lebanon, Connecticut, and was ordained in June, 1735.

This town occupies a conspicuous place in American history; for, whoever traces the lineage
of some of the most illustrious names that grace its pages, finds his path lying to or through
this "valley of cedars," in Eastern Connecticut. Here the patient, heroic Huguenot aided in
laying foundations for all good institutions. Here the learned, indefatigable Tisdale taught
with distinguished success. Here lived those eminent patriots, the Trumbulls. By birth or ancestry,
the honored names of Smalley, Ticknor, Marsh, and Mason, are associated with this venerable town.

Mr. Wheelock's parish was in the northern and most retired part of the town, and the least
inviting, perhaps, in its physical aspects and natural resources. The products of a rugged
soil furnished the industrious inhabitants with a comfortable subsistence, but left nothing
for luxury. It was at that period a quiet agricultural community, living largely within itself.
As at the present day, there was but one church within the territorial limits of the parish.
The "council of nine," selected from the more discreet of the male members, somewhat in accordance
with Presbyterian usage, aided in the administration of a careful and thorough discipline.

There can be no doubt that Mr. Wheelock was accounted one of the leading preachers and divines
of his day. Both as a pastor, and the associate of the eminent men who were prominent in the
great revival which marked the middle of the last century, his labors were crowned with large
success. Rev. Dr. Burroughs, who knew him intimately, says: "As a preacher, his aim was to
reach the conscience. He studied great plainness of speech, and adapted his discourse to every
capacity, that he might be understood by all." His pupil, Dr. Trumbull, the historian, says:
"He was a gentleman of a comely figure, of a mild and winning aspect, his voice smooth and
harmonious, the best by far that I ever heard. He had the entire command of it. His gesture
was natural, but not redundant. His preaching and addresses were close and pungent, and yet
winning beyond almost all comparison."[4] By an intermarriage of their relatives, he was allied
to the family of Jonathan Edwards, whose high regard for him is sufficiently indicated in a
letter dated Northampton, June 9, 1741, from which we make brief extracts. "There has been
a reviving of religion of late amongst us, but your labors have been much more remarkably blessed
than mine. May God send you hither with the like blessing as He has sent you to some other
places, and may your coming be a means to humble me for my barrenness and unprofitableness,
and a means of my instruction and enlivening. I want an opportunity to concert measures with
you, for the advancement of the kingdom and glory of the Redeemer."

      [4] The venerable Prof. Stowe states that, when a professor in the
          College, he was informed by an aged man, living in the
          vicinity, that President Wheelock's earnestness in preaching
          at times led him to leave the pulpit, and appeal to
          individuals in his audience.

We are fortunate in having the testimony of a member of his own family, in regard to the beginning
of Mr. Wheelock's more practical interest in the unfortunate Aborigines. His grandson, Rev.
William Patten, D.D., says,[5] "One evening after a religious conference with a number of his
people at Lebanon, he walked out, as he usually did on summer evenings, for meditation and
prayer; and in his retirement his attention was led to the neglect [from lack of means] of
his people in providing for his support. It occurred to him, with peculiar clearness, that
if they furnished him with but half a living, they were entitled to no more than half his labors.
And he concluded that they were left to such neglect, to teach him that part of his labors
ought to be directed to other objects. He then inquired what objects were most in want of assistance.
And it occurred to him, almost instantaneously, that the Indians were the most proper objects
of the charitable attention of Christians. He then determined to devote half of his time to them."

      [5] Memoirs of Wheelock, p. 177.

We will now allow this eminent Christian philanthropist to speak for himself. In his "Narrative,"
for the period ending in 1762, after referring to the too general lack of interest in the Indian,
he says:

"It has seemed to me, he must be stupidly indifferent to the Redeemer's cause and interest
in the world, and criminally deaf and blind to the intimations of the favor and displeasure
of God in the dispensations of His Providence, who could not perceive plain intimations of
God's displeasure against us for this neglect, inscribed in capitals, on the very front of
divine dispensations, from year to year, in permitting the savages to be such a sore scourge
to our land, and make such depredations on our frontiers, inhumanly butchering and captivating
our people, not only in a time of war, but when we had good reason to think (if ever we had)
that we dwelt safely by them. And there is good reason to think that if one half which has
been expended for so many years past in building forts, manning, and supporting them, had been
prudently laid out in supporting faithful missionaries and schoolmasters among them, the instructed
and civilized party would have been a far better defence than all our expensive fortresses,
and prevented the laying waste so many towns and villages; witness the consequence of sending
Mr. Sergeant to Stockbridge, which was in the very road by which they most usually came upon
our people, and by which there has never been one attack made upon us since his going there."
After referring to the ordinary obligations of humanity, patriotism, and religion, he says:

"As there were few or none who seemed to lay the necessity and importance of Christianizing
the natives so much to heart as to exert themselves in earnest and lead the way therein, I
was naturally put upon consideration and inquiry what methods might have the greatest probability
of success; and upon the whole was fully persuaded that this, which I have been pursuing, had
by far the greatest probability of any that had been proposed, viz.: by the mission of their
own [educated] sons in conjunction with the English; and that a number of girls should also
be instructed in whatever should be necessary to render them fit to perform the female part,
as house-wives, school-mistresses, and tailoresses. The influence of their own sons among them
will likely be much greater than of any Englishmen whatsoever. There is no such thing as sending
English missionaries, or setting up English schools among them, to any good purpose, in most
places, as their temper, state, and condition have been and still are." In illustration of
his theory, he refers to the education, by the assistance of the "Honorable London Commissioners,"[6]
of Mr. Samson Occom, "one of the Mohegan tribe, who has several years been a useful school-master
and successful preacher of the Gospel."[7]

      [6] Agents of the Corporation in London referred to on page 2, of
          which Robert Boyle was governor.

      [7] See Appendix.

"After seeing the success of this attempt," he continues, "I was more encouraged to hope that
such a method might be very successful, and above eight years ago I wrote to Rev. John Brainerd
[brother of the distinguished David Brainerd], missionary in New Jersey, desiring him to send
me two likely boys for this purpose, of the Delaware tribe. He accordingly sent me John Pumpshire
in the fourteenth, and Jacob Woolley in the eleventh years of their age. They arrived December
18, 1754.

"Sometime after these boys came, the affair appearing with an agreeable aspect, I represented
it to Col. Elisha Williams, late Rector of Yale College, and Rev. Messrs. Samuel Moseley, of
Windham, and Benjamin Pomeroy, of Hebron, and invited them to join me. They readily accepted
the invitation. And Mr. Joshua Moor,[8] late of Mansfield, deceased, appeared, to give a small
tenement in this place [Lebanon], for the foundation, use and support of a charity school,
for the education of Indian youth, etc." Mr. More's grant contained "about two acres of pasturing,
and a small house and shop," near Mr. Wheelock's residence.

      [8] Mr. M.'s own orthography is More.

This gentleman was one of the more prominent of the early settlers at Mansfield. He owned and
resided upon a large estate on the Willimantic river, a few miles north of the present site
of the village bearing that name. There is sufficient evidence to warrant the belief, that
the first husband of Mr. More's mother was Mr. Thomas Howard (or Harwood), of Norwich, who
was slain in the memorable fight at Narragansett Fort, in December, 1675, and that her maiden
name was Mary Wellman. From the church records, he appears to have been of a professedly religious
character, as early as 1721. As his residence was in the neighborhood of Mr. Wheelock's early
home, and but little farther removed from Lebanon "Crank," as the north parish in that town
was styled, Mr. More had ample opportunities for a thorough acquaintance with the person to
whom he now generously extended a helping hand. It is not known that this worthy man left any
posterity, to perpetuate a name which will be cherished with tender regard, so long as the
institution to which he furnished a home, in its infancy, shall have an existence.

In a summary of his work for the eight years, Mr. Wheelock says: "I have had two upon my hands
since 1754, four since April, 1757, five since April, 1759, seven since November, 1760, and
eleven since August, 1761. And for some time I have had twenty-five, three of the number English
youth. One of the Indian lads, Jacob Woolley, is now in his last year at New Jersey College."

There is reason to believe that Occom would have taken a collegiate course, but for the partial
failure of his health. On the whole, we are fully warranted in the opinion that, from the outset,
Mr. Wheelock designed to have all his missionaries, whether Indian or English, "thoroughly
furnished" for their work.

Before closing the "Narrative," he gives an interesting account of material resources.

"The Honorable London Commissioners, hearing of the design, inquired into it, and encouraged
it by an allowance of £12 lawful money, by their vote November 12, 1756. And again in the year
1758 they allowed me £20; and in November 4, 1760, granted me an annual allowance of £20 for
my assistance; and in October 8, 1761, they granted me £12 towards the support of Isaiah Uncas,
son of the Sachem of Mohegan, and £10 more for his support the following year. In October,
1756, I received a legacy of fifty-nine dollars of Mrs. Ann Bingham, of Windham. In July, 1761,
I received a generous donation of fifty pounds sterling from the Right Hon. William, Marquis
of Lothian; and in November, 1761, a donation of £26 sterling from Mr. Hardy, of London; and
in May, 1762, a second donation of £50 sterling from that most honorable and noble lord, the
Marquis of Lothian; and, at the same time, £20 sterling from Mr. Samuel Savage, merchant in
London; and a collection of ten guineas from the Rev. Dr. A. Gifford, in London; and £10 sterling
more from a lady in London, unknown, which is still in the hands of a friend, and to be remitted
with some additional advantage, and to be accounted for when received. And, also, for seven
years past, I have, one year with another, received about £11 lawful money, annually, interest
of subscriptions. And in my journey to Portsmouth last June, I received, in private donations,
£66 17s. 7-1/4d., lawful money. I also received, for the use of this school, a bell of about
80 lb. weight, from a gentleman in London. The Honorable Scotch Commissioners,[9] in and near
Boston, understanding and approving of the design of sending for Indian children of remote
tribes to be educated here, were the first body, or society, who have led the way in making
an attempt for that purpose. While I was in Boston they passed a vote, May 7, 1761, 'that the
Reverend Mr. Wheelock, of Lebanon, be desired to fit out David Fowler, an Indian youth, to
accompany Mr. Samson Occom, going on a mission to the Oneidas; that said David be supported
on said mission for a term not exceeding four months; and that he endeavor, on his return,
to bring with him a number of Indian boys, not exceeding three, to be put under Mr. Wheelock's
care and instruction, and that £20 be put into Mr. Wheelock's hands to carry this design into
execution.' In November, 1761, the Great and General Court or Assembly of the Province of Massachusetts
Bay, voted that I should be allowed to take under my care six children of the Six Nations,
for education, clothing, and boarding, and be allowed for that purpose, for each of said children,
£12 per annum for one year."[10]

      [9] Agents of the Scotch "Society for Propagating Christian
          Knowledge."

      [10] For tribes represented in the school, and other donors to the
           school and college, see Appendix.

The importance of education to the welfare of any community, has been duly appreciated by the
people of New Hampshire from the earliest periods of her history.

Such an item as the following is worthy of notice:

"At a publique Town Meeting held the 5: 2 mo. 58 [1658,] It is agreed that Twenty pounds per
annum shall be yearly rayzed for the mayntenance of a School-master in the Town of Dover."[11]
Harvard College being in need of a new building in 1669, the inhabitants of Portsmouth "subscribed
sixty pounds, which sum they agreed to pay annually for seven years to the overseers of Harvard
College. Dover gave thirty-two pounds, and Exeter ten pounds for the same purpose."[12] Very
few towns at the present day are as liberal, in proportion to their ability.

      [11] Dover Town Records.

      [12] Adams's Annals of Portsmouth, p. 50.

Classical schools were established in all the more populous towns, and these were furnished
with competent teachers, who were graduates of Harvard College, or European universities.

In 1758, in the midst of the din and tumult of the French war, we find the clergy--ever among
the foremost in laudable enterprise--making an earnest effort for increased facilities for
liberal education.

We give official records:

"The Convention of the Congregational Ministers in the Province of New Hampshire, being held
at the house of the Rev. Mr. Pike in Somersworth on the 26th day of Sept. 1758: The Rev. Joseph
Adams was chosen Moderator." After the sermon and transaction of some business:

"The Convention then taking into consideration the great advantages which may arise, both to
the Churches and State from the erecting [an] Academy or College in this Province, unanimously
Voted that the following Petition shall be preferred to the Governor, desiring him to grant
a Charter for said purpose:

"To his Excellency, Benning Wentworth, Esq., Capt.-General and Governor-in-Chief in and over
his Majesty's Province of New Hampshire in New England. May it please your Excellency,--

"We, the Ministers of the Congregational Churches in this Province of New Hampshire under your
Excellency's Government now assembled in an Annual Convention in Somersworth, as has been our
custom for several years past, the design of which is to pray together for his Majesty and
Government, and to consult the interests of religion and virtue, for our mutual assistance
and encouragement in our proper business: Beg leave to present a request to your Excellency
in behalf of literature, which proceeds, not from any private or party views in us, but our
desire to serve the Government and religion by laying a foundation for the best instruction
of youth. We doubt not your Excellency is sensible of the great advantages of learning, and
the difficulties which attend the education of youth in this Province, by reason of our distance
from any of the seats of learning, the discredit of our medium, etc. We have reason to hope
that by an interest among our people, and some favor from the Government, we may be able in
a little time to raise a sufficient fund for erecting and carrying on an Academy or College
within this Province, without prejudice to any other such seminary in neighboring Colonies,
provided your Excellency will be pleased to grant to us, a number of us, or any other trustees,
whom your Excellency shall think proper to appoint, a good and sufficient charter, by which
they may be empowered to choose a President, Professors, Tutors, or other officers, and regulate
all matters belonging to such a society. We therefore now humbly petition your Excellency to
grant such a charter as may, in the best manner, answer such a design and intrust it with our
Committee, viz.: Messrs. Joseph Adams, James Pike, John Moody, Ward Cotton, Nathaniel Gookin,
Woodbridge Odlin, Samuel Langdon, and Samuel Haven, our brethren, whom we have now chosen to
wait upon your Excellency with this our petition, that we may use our influence with our people
to promote so good a design, by generous subscriptions, and that we may farther petition the
General Court for such assistance, as they shall think necessary. We are persuaded, if your
Excellency will first of all favor us with such a charter, we shall be able soon to make use
of it for the public benefit; and that your Excellency's name will forever be remembered with
honor. If, after trial, we cannot accomplish it, we promise to return the charter with all
thankfulness for your Excellency's good disposition. It is our constant prayer that God would
prosper your Excellency's administration, and we beg leave to subscribe ourselves your Excellency's
most obedient servants.

                              Joseph Adams, Moderator.
    "Proceedings attested by  Samuel Haven, Clerk." We then went to the house of God. After prayer and a
sermon:

"A draught of a charter for a college in this Province being read: Voted, That the said charter
is for substance agreeable to the mind of the Convention. Whereas a committee chosen last year
to prefer a petition to his Excellency the Governor for a charter of a college in this Province
have given a verbal account to this Convention of their proceedings and conversation with the
Governor upon said affair, by which, notwithstanding the Governor manifests some unwillingness,
at present, to grant a charter agreeable to the Convention, yet there remains some hope, that
after maturer consideration and advice of Council, his Excellency will grant such a charter
as will be agreeable to us and our people, therefore, Voted, that Rev. Messrs. Joseph Adams,
James Pike, Ward Cotton, Samuel Parsons, Nathaniel Gookin, Samuel Langdon, and Samuel Haven,
or a major part of them, be and hereby are a Committee of this Convention, to do everything
which to them shall appear necessary, in the aforesaid affair, in behalf of this Convention;
and, moreover, to consult upon any other measures for promoting the education of youth, and
advancing good literature in the Province, and make report to the next Convention.

    Attested by               Samuel Haven, Clerk."

The Convention was holden at Portsmouth, September 30, 1760, and at the same place in September,
1761, but nothing appears in the proceedings of those years concerning the charter. But at
the convention held at Portsmouth, September 28, 1762, the Rev. Mr. John Rogers having been
chosen moderator, after prayer and sermon, the following testimonial was laid before the Convention:

"Chelsea, Norwich, July 10, 1762.

"We ministers of the gospel and pastors of churches hereafter mentioned with our names, having,
for a number of years past, heard of or seen with pleasure the zeal, courage, and firm resolution
of the Rev. Eleazar Wheelock of Lebanon, to prosecute to effect a design of spreading the gospel
among the natives in the wilds of our America, and especially his perseverance in it, amidst
the many peculiar discouragements he had to encounter during the late years of the war here,
and upon a plan which appears to us to have the greatest probability of success, namely, by
a mission of their own sons; and as we are verily persuaded that the smiles of Divine Providence
upon his school, and the success of his endeavors hitherto justly may, and ought, to encourage
him and all to believe it to be of God, and that which he will own and succeed for the glory
of his great name in the enlargement of the kingdom of our divine Redeemer, as well as for
the great benefit of the crown of Great Britain, and especially of his Majesty's dominions
in America; so we apprehend the present openings in Providence ought to invite Christians of
every denomination to unite their endeavors and to lend a helping hand in carrying on so charitable
a design; and we are heartily sorry if party spirit and party differences shall at all obstruct
the progress of it; or the old leaven of this land ferment upon this occasion, and give a watchful
adversary opportunity so to turn the course of endeavors into another channel as to defeat
the design of spreading the gospel among the heathen. To prevent which, and encourage unanimity
and zeal in prosecuting the design, we look upon it our duty as Christians, and especially
as ministers of the gospel, to give our testimony that, as we verily believe, a disinterested
regard to the advancement of the Redeemer's kingdom and the good will of His Majesty's dominions
in America, were the governing motives which at first induced the Rev. Mr. Wheelock to enter
upon the great affair, and to risk his own private interest, as he has done since, in carrying
it on; so we esteem his plan to be good, his measures to be prudently and well concerted, his
endowments peculiar, his zeal fervent, his endeavors indefatigable, for the accomplishing this
design, and we know no man, like minded, who will naturally care for their state. May God prolong
his life, and make him extensively useful in the kingdom of Christ. We have also, some of us,
at his desire examined his accounts, and we find that, besides giving in all his own labour
and trouble in the affair, he has charged for the support, schooling, etc., of the youth, at
the lowest rate it could be done for, as the price of things have been and still are among
us; and we apprehend the generous donations already made have been and we are confident will
be laid out in the most prudent manner, and with the best advice for the furtherance of the
important design: and we pray God abundantly to reward the liberality of many upon this occasion.
And we hope the generosity, especially of persons of distinction and note, will be a happy
lead and inducement to still greater liberalities, and that in consequence thereof the wide-extended
wilderness of America will blossom as the rose, habitations of cruelty become dwelling places
of righteousness and the blessing of thousands ready to perish come upon all those whose love
to Christ and charity to them has been shown upon this occasion. Which is the hearty prayer
of your most sincere friends and humble servants:

    Ebenezer Rosetter Pastor of ye 1^st Chh: in Stonington.
    Joseph Fish Pastor of ye 2^d Chh: in Stonington.
    Nath^l Whitaker Pastor of ye Chh: in Chelsea in Norwich.
    Benj^a Pomeroy Pastor of ye 1^st Chh: in Hebron.
    Elijah Lothrop Pastor of ye Chh: of Gilead in Hebron.
    Nath^l Eells Pastor of a Chh: in Stonington.
    Mather Byles Pastor of ye First Chh: in New London.
    Jona. Barber Pastor of a Chh: in Groton.
    Matt. Graves Missionary in New London.
    Peter Powers Pastor of the Chh: at Newent in Norwich.
    Daniel Kirtland Former Pastor of ye Chh: in Newent Norwich.
    Asher Rosetter Pastor of ye 1^st Chh: in Preston.
    Jabez Wight Pastor of ye 4 Chh: in Norwich.
    David Jewett Pastor of a Chh: in New London.
    Benj^a Throop Pastor of a Chh: in Norwich.
    Sam^l Moseley Pastor of a Chh: in Windham.
    Stephen White Pastor of a Chh: in Windham.
    Richard Salter Pastor of a Chh: in Mansfield.
    Timothy Allen Pastor of ye Chh: in Ashford.
    Ephraim Little Pastor of ye 1^st Chh: in Colchester.
    Hobart Estabrook Pastor of a Chh: in East Haddam.
    Joseph Fowler Pastor of a Chh: in East Haddam.
    Benj^a Boardman Pastor of a Chh: in Middletown.
    John Norton Pastor of a Chh: of Christ in Middletown.
    Benj^a Dunning Pastor of a Chh: of Christ in Marlborough."

"Voted, the Rev. Messrs. Moody, Langdon, Haven, and Foster be a Committee of this Convention
to consider and report on the above. Said committee laid the following draft before the Convention,
which was unanimously voted and signed by the moderator:

"We, a Convention of Congregational Ministers assembled at Portsmouth, September 28, 1762,
having read and considered the foregoing attestation from a number of reverend gentlemen in
Connecticut, taking into consideration the many obligations the Supreme Ruler has laid upon
Christian churches to promote his cause and enlarge the borders of his kingdom in this land,
the signal victories he has granted to our troops, the entire reduction of all Canada, so that
a way is now open for the spreading of the light and purity of the gospel among distant savage
tribes, and a large field, white unto the harvest, is presented before us; considering the
infinite worth of the souls of men, the importance of the gospel to their present and everlasting
happiness, and the hopeful prospect that the aboriginal natives will now listen to Christian
instruction; considering also the great expense which must unavoidably attend the prosecution
of this great design, think ourselves obliged to recommend, in the warmest manner, this subject
to the serious consideration of our Christian brethren and the public. It is with gratitude
to the Great Head of the Church, who has the hearts of all in his hands, that we observe some
hopeful steps taken by the societies founded for the gospelizing the Indians, and the hearts
of such numbers, both at home and in this land, have been disposed to bestow their liberalities
to enable such useful societies to effect the great ends for which they are founded. But as
we wish to see every probable method taken to forward so benevolent and Christian a design,
we, therefore, rejoice to find that the Rev. Mr. Wheelock has such a number of Indian youths
under his care and tuition; and in that abundant testimony which his brethren in the ministry
have borne to his abilities for, and zeal and faithfulness in, this important undertaking.
And we do hereby declare our hearty approbation of it, as far as we are capable of judging
of an affair carried on at such a distance; and think it our duty to encourage and exhort all
Christians to lend a helping hand towards so great and generous an undertaking. We would not,
indeed, absolutely dictate this, or any other particular scheme, for civilizing and spreading
the gospel among the Indians; but we are persuaded that God demands of the inhabitants of these
colonies some returns of gratitude, in this way, for the remarkable success of our arms against
Canada, and that peace and security which he has now given us; we must, therefore, rely on
the wisdom and prudence of the civil authority to think of it as a matter in which our political
interests as well as the glory of God are deeply concerned; and we refer to our churches and
all private Christians as peculiarly called to promote the Redeemer's kingdom everywhere, to
determine what will be the most effectual methods of forwarding so noble and pious a design,
and to contribute, to the utmost of their power, either towards the execution of the plan which
the Rev. Mr. Wheelock is pursuing, or that of the corporation erected in the Province of Massachusetts
Bay, or any other which may be thought of here or elsewhere, for the same laudable purpose.

    John Rogers, Moderator."

The first Legislative action in New Hampshire relative to Mr. Wheelock's work is also worthy
of notice. The following is from the Journal of the House of Representatives:

"June 17, 1762, Voted, that the Hon. Henry Sherburne and Mishech Weare, Esquires, Peter Gilman,
Clement March, Esq., Capt. Thomas W. Waldron, and Capt. John Wentworth be a committee to consider
of the subject-matter of Rev. Mr. Eleazar Wheelock's memorial for aid for his school." This
committee made a favorable report, saying: "We think it incumbent on this province to do something
towards promoting so good an undertaking," and recommending a grant of fifty pounds sterling
per annum for five years. The action of the Legislature was in accordance with this report.
Later records, however, indicate that the grant was not continued after the first, or possibly
the second, year. Gov. Benning Wentworth, after careful investigation, gave his official sanction
to the action of his associates, in aid of Mr. Wheelock.

Mr. Wheelock held relations more or less intimate with the leading educational institutions
of the country. But his favorite college was at Princeton, New Jersey, far removed from his
own residence. A warm friendship subsisted between him and many of its officers, and thither
he sent most of his students for a considerable period. The inconvenience of doing this, may
have suggested the idea of a college in connection with his school. However this may have been,
nothing short of a college could satisfy him. The following letter, written in April, 1763,
needs no further preface:

"TO HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL JEFFREY AMHERST, BARONET.

"May it please your Excellency,--The narrative herewith inclosed, gives your Excellency some
short account of the success of my feeble endeavors, through the blessing of God upon them,
in the affair there related.

"Your Excellency will easily see, that if the number of youth in this school continues to increase,
as it has done, and as our prospects are that it will do, we shall soon be obliged to build
to accommodate them and accordingly to determine upon the place where to fix it, and I would
humbly submit to your Excellency's consideration the following proposal, viz.: That a tract
of land, about fifteen or twenty miles square, or so much as shall be sufficient for four townships,
on the west side of Susquehannah river, or in some other place more convenient in the heart
of the Indian country, be granted in favor of this school: That said townships be peopled with
a chosen number of inhabitants of known honesty, integrity, and such as love and will be kind
to, and honest in their dealings with Indians. That a thousand acres of, and within said grant,
be given to this school, and that the school be an academy for all parts of useful learning;
part of it to be a college for the education of missionaries, interpreters, schoolmasters,
etc.; and part of it a school to teach reading, writing, etc., and that there be manufactures
for the instruction both of males and females, in whatever shall be necessary in life, and
proper tutors, masters, and mistresses be provided for the same. That those towns be furnished
with ministers of the best characters, and such as are of ability, when incorporated with a
number of the most understanding of the inhabitants, to conduct the affairs of the school,
and of such missions as they shall have occasion and ability for, from time to time. That there
be a sufficient number of laborers upon the lands belonging to the school; and that the students
be obliged to labor with them, and under their direction and conduct, so much as shall be necessary
for their health, and to give them an understanding of husbandry; and those who are designed
for farmers, after they have got a sufficient degree of school learning, to labor constantly,
and the school to have all the benefit of their labor, and they the benefit of being instructed
therein, till they are of an age and understanding sufficient to set up for themselves, and
introduce husbandry among their respective tribes; and that there be a moderate tax upon all
the granted lands, after the first ten or fifteen years, and also some duty upon mills, etc.,
which shall not be burdensome to the inhabitants, for the support of the school, or missionaries
among the Indians, etc. By this means much expense, and many inconveniences occasioned by our
great distance from them, would be prevented, our missionaries be much better supported and
provided for, especially in case of sickness, etc. Parents and children would be more contented,
being nearer to one another, and likely many would be persuaded to send their children for
an education, who are now dissuaded from it only on account of the great distance of the school
from them.

"The bearer, Mr. C. J. S.,[13] is able, if your Excellency desires it, to give you a more full
and particular account of the present state of this school, having been for some time the master
and instructor of it, and is now designed, with the leave of Providence, the ensuing summer,
to make an excursion as a missionary among the Indians, with an interpreter from this school.

"And by him your Excellency may favor me with your thoughts on what I have proposed.

"I am, with sincerest duty and esteem, may it please your Excellency, your Excellency's most
obedient and humble servant,

    Eleazar Wheelock."

      [13] Charles J. Smith.

In 1764, the Scotch Society, already referred to, manifested increasing interest in Mr. Wheelock's
work, by appointing a Board of Correspondents, selected from gentlemen of high standing, in
Connecticut, to coöperate with him.

We here insert entire, Mr. Wheelock's first letter to Lord Dartmouth:

"TO THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH.

"Lebanon, Connecticut, New England, March 1, 1764.

"May it please your Lordship,--

"It must be counted amongst the greatest favors of God to a wretched world, and that which
gives abundant joy to the friends of Zion, that among earthly dignities there are those who
cheerfully espouse the sinking cause of the great Redeemer, and whose hearts and hands are
open to minister supplies for the support and enlargement of His kingdom in the world.

"As your Lordship has been frequently mentioned with pleasure by the lovers of Christ in this
wilderness, and having fresh assurance of the truth of that fame of yours, by the Rev. Mr.
Whitefield, from his own acquaintance with your person and character, and being encouraged
and moved thereto by him, I am now emboldened, without any other apology for myself than that
which the nature of the case itself carries in its very front, to solicit your Lordship's favorable
notice of, and friendship towards, a feeble attempt to save the swarms of Indian natives in
this land from final and eternal ruin, which must unavoidably be the issue of those poor, miserable
creatures, unless God shall mercifully interpose with His blessing upon endeavors to prevent it.

"The Indian Charity School, under my care (a narrative of which, herewith transmitted, humbly
begs your Lordship's acceptance), has met with such approbation and encouragement from gentlemen
of character and ability, at home and abroad, and such has been the success of endeavors hitherto
used therein, as persuade us more and more that it is of God, and a device and plan which,
under his blessing, has a greater probability of success than any that has yet been attempted.
By the blessing and continual care of heaven, it has lived, and does still live and flourish,
without any other fund appropriated to its support than that great one, in the hands of Him,
whose the earth is, and the fullness thereof.

"And I trust there is no need to mention any other considerations to prove your Lordship's
compassions, or invite your liberality on this occasion, than those which their piteous and
perishing case does of itself suggest, when once your Lordship shall be well satisfied of a
proper and probable way to manifest and express the same with success. Which I do with the
utmost cheerfulness submit to your Lordship, believing your determination therein to be under
the direction of Him who does all things well. And, if the nature and importance of the case
be not esteemed sufficient excuse for the freedom and boldness I have assumed, I must rely
upon your Lordship's innate goodness to pardon him who is, with the greatest duty and esteem,
my lord,

    "Your Lordship's most obedient,
    "And most humble servant,
    "Eleazar Wheelock."

It is interesting to observe here the agency of Mr. Wheelock's old and intimate friend, Whitefield.
As early as 1760, after alluding to efforts in his behalf in Great Britain, he wrote to Mr.
Wheelock:

"Had I a converted Indian scholar, that could preach and pray in English, something might be
done to purpose."

After much deliberation, Mr. Wheelock determined to send Mr. Occom and Rev. Nathaniel Whitaker
of Norwich, who was deeply interested in his work, to solicit the charities of British Christians,
with a purpose of more extended operations.

They left this country late in 1765, carrying testimonials from a large number of eminent civilians
and divines.

The following letter indicates that they were cordially welcomed in England:

"London, February 2, 1766.

My dear Mr. Wheelock,--This day three weeks I had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Whitaker and Mr.
Occom. On their account, I have deferred my intended journey into the country all next week.
They have been introduced to, and dined with the Daniel of the age, viz., the truly noble Lord
Dartmouth. Mr. Occom is also to be introduced by him to his Majesty, who intends to favor their
design with his bounty. A short memorial for the public is drawn, which is to be followed with
a small pamphlet. All denominations are to be applied to, and therefore no mention is made
of any particular commissioners or corresponding committees whatsoever. It would damp the thing
entirely. Cashiers are to be named, and the moneys collected are to be deposited with them
till drawn for by yourself. Mr. Occom hath preached for me with acceptance, and also Mr. Whitaker.
They are to go round the other denominations in a proper rotation. As yet everything looks
with a promising aspect. I have procured them suitable lodgings. I shall continue to do everything
that lies in my power. Mr. S.[14] is providentially here,--a fast friend to your plan and his
dear country.

"I wish you joy of the long wished for, long prayed for repeal, and am, my dear Mr. Wheelock,

"Yours, etc., in our glorious Head,

    "George Whitefield."

      [14] Mr. John Smith, of Boston.

We are now introduced to Mr. Wheelock's most valuable coadjutor, the son of Mark Hunking Wentworth,--another
active and earnest friend:

"Bristol, [England,] 16th Dec., 1766.

"The Rev. Mr. Whitaker having requested my testimony of an institution forming in America,
under the name of an Indian School, for which purpose many persons on that continent and in
Europe have liberally contributed, and he is now soliciting the further aid of all denominations
of people in this kingdom to complete the proposed plan, I do therefore certify, whomsoever
it may concern, that the said Indian School appears to me to be formed upon principles of extensive
benevolence and unfeigned piety; that the moneys already collected have been justly applied
to this and no other use. From repeated information of many principal gentlemen in America,
and from my own particular knowledge of local circumstances, I am well convinced that the charitable
contributions afforded to this design will be honestly and successfully applied to civilize
and recover the savages of America from their present barbarous paganism.

    "J. Wentworth,

    "Governor of New Hampshire."

The annals of philanthropy unfold few things bolder or more romantic in conception, or grander
in execution, or sublimer in results than this most memorable, most successful pilgrimage.
The unique, but magnetic, marvelous eloquence of this regenerated son of the forest, as he
passed from town to town, and city to city, over England and Scotland, engaged the attention
and opened the hearts of all classes--the clergy, the nobility, and the peasantry. The names
of the men and women and children, who gave of their abundance or their poverty, primarily
and apparently to civilize and evangelize their wild and savage brethren across the sea, but
ultimately and really to found one of the most solid and beautiful temples of Christian and
secular learning, in the Western hemisphere, deserve affectionate and perpetual remembrance,
along with those of their kindred, who in a preceding century dedicated their whole treasure
upon Plymouth Rock.

With sincere regret that we have not the name of every donor, yet with devout gratitude for
the preservation of so full a record, we append the original list of donors in England, as
prepared and published at the time, by Lord Dartmouth and his associates.[15]

      [15] See Appendix.

Never was more timely aid given to a worthy cause. When Mr. Wheelock's agents went abroad he
had a school of about thirty, and an empty treasury. These funds gave him present comfort,
and enabled him to effect the long-desired removal.

Mr. Wheelock was in friendly correspondence, for several years, with Sir William Johnson, the
distinguished Indian agent and superintendent, who resided in the province of New York, near
the Six Nations. Through his agency, the famous Mohawk, Joseph Brant, was sent to Mr. Wheelock's
school. After enjoying some opportunities for an estimate of his abilities and character, Mr.
Wheelock speaks of him in highly complimentary terms, as a gentleman, "whose understanding
and influence in Indian affairs, is, I suppose, greater than any other man's, and to whose
indefatigable and successful labors to settle and secure a peace with the several tribes, who
have been at war with us, our land and nation are under God chiefly indebted."

In September, 1762, Mr. Wheelock writes to Sir William: "I understand that some of our people
are about to settle on a new purchase on Susquehannah river. It may be a door may open for
my design on that purchase." He also intimates that he desires to set up the school in his
neighborhood. This plan does not meet Sir William's approval, but in January, 1763, Mr. Wheelock
addresses him again, saying: "Gov. Wentworth has offered a tract of land in the western part
of the province of New Hampshire which he is now settling, for the use of the school if we
will fix it there, and there has been some talk of fixing it in one of the new townships in
the province of the Massachusetts which lie upon New York line near Albany. I much want to
consult your Honor in the affair." Mr. Wheelock's confidence in his friend having been strengthened
by the receipt of several cordial letters, and other circumstances, he writes to him, July
4, 1766: "I apprehend you are able above any man in this land to serve the grand design in
view," desiring to "act in every step" agreeable to his mind, and informing him that he has
sent his son, with Dr. Pomeroy, to confer with him about a location for the school. He also
refers to "arguments offered to carry it into the Southern governments." But Mr. Johnson did
not see fit to invite the settlement of the school in the neighborhood of the Six Nations,
deeming it unwise, apparently, to encourage a movement which might be regarded by them as an
invasion of their territory, especially if they were asked to give lands to the school. This
decision virtually determined the location. If Mr. Wheelock could not follow his old neighbors
and friends to the westward, and plant himself beside the great Indian Confederacy, he must
turn his attention to the northward, where other neighbors and friends were settling within
easy reach of the far-extended Indian tribes of Canada. Other localities, as we shall see hereafter,
presented some inducements, but they were all of minor importance. Hence, when his agents returned
from Great Britain placing the long-desired funds for the accomplishment of his purposes in
his hands, we may well imagine that Mr. Wheelock gladly turned toward that worthy magistrate,
who had already shown "a willing heart," for more aid.

In the meantime, Mr. Wheelock was giving the matter of a location his most earnest and careful
attention. In a letter to Mr. Whitefield, dated September 4, 1766, he says: "We cannot get
land enough on Hudson river." Nor has he any more hope of success on the Mohawk. "Large offers
have been made in the new settlements on Connecticut river. It is likely that near twenty thousand
acres would be given in their several towns." After stating that "Col. Willard" has made generous
offers of lands, "on Sugar river," he says: "that location would be the most inviting of any
part of that country. Samuel Stevens, Esq., offers two thousand acres to have it at No. 4.
Col. Chandler offers two thousand acres in the centre of the town of Chester, opposite to No.
4, nine miles from the River. The situation of Wyoming, on Susquehannah river, is very convenient."[16]
A few months later, General Schuyler earnestly advocated the claims of Albany as a favorable
location.

      [16] See Appendix.

But Mr. Wheelock's friends were very unwilling that he should leave Connecticut. Windham and
Hebron[17] made earnest efforts to obtain the school. We quote from Lebanon parish records:

      [17] See Appendix.

"At a legal and full meeting of the Inhabitants, legal voters of the second society in Lebanon
[now Columbia], in Connecticut, held in said society on the 29th day of June, Anno Domini 1767,
We made choice of Mr. James Pinneo to be moderator of said meeting, and passed the following
votes, nemine contradicente:

"1. That we desire the Indian Charity School now under the care of the Rev. Mr. Eleazar Wheelock,
may be fixed to continue in this society: provided it may consist with the interest and prosperity
of said School.

"2. That as we have a large and convenient house for public and divine Worship, we will accommodate
the members of said school with such convenient seats in said house as we shall be able.

"3. That the following letter be presented to the Rev. Mr. Eleazar Wheelock, by Messrs. Israel
Woodward, James Pinneo, and Asahel Clark, Jun., in the name and behalf of this society; and
that they desire him to transmit a copy of the same, with the votes foregoing, to the Right
Honorable the Earl of Dartmouth, and the rest of those Honorable and Worthy Gentlemen in England
who have condescended to patronize said school; and to whom the establishment of the same is
committed.

"The Inhabitants of the Second Society in Lebanon in Connecticut to the Rev. Mr. Eleazar Wheelock,
Pastor of said Society.

"Rev. and ever dear Pastor,--As you are witness to our past care and concern for the success
of your most pious and charitable undertaking in favor of the poor perishing Indians on this
continent, we are confident you will not be displeased at our addressing you on this occasion;
but that you would rather think it strange if we should altogether hold our peace at such a
time as this; when we understand it is still in doubt both with yourself and friends where
to fix your school; whether at Albany or more remote among the Indian tribes, in this society
where it was first planted, or in some other part of this colony proposed for its accommodation.

"We have some of us heard most of the arguments offered for its removal, and however plausible
they appear we are not at all convinced of their force, or that it is expedient, everything
considered, it should be removed, nor do we think we have great reason to fear the event, only
we would not be wanting as to our duty in giving such hints in favor of its continuance here
as naturally and easily occur to our minds, for we have that confidence in you and the friends
of the design, that you will not be easily carried away with appearances: but will critically
observe the secret springs of those generous offers, made in one place and another, (some of
which are beyond what we can pretend to,) whether some prospect of private emolument be not
at the bottom; or whether they will finally prove more kind to your pious institution as such
considered, (whatever their pretenses may be,) than they have been or at present appear to
be to the Redeemer's Kingdom in general. We trust this institution, so well calculated to the
advancement of its interest, will flourish best among the Redeemer's friends; and although
with respect to ourselves we have little to boast as to friendship to our divine Redeemer or
his interest, yet this we are sure of, that he has been very kind to us, in times past, and
we trust has made you the instrument of much good to us, and to lay a foundation for it to
succeeding generations; we humbly hope God has been preparing an habitation for himself here,
and has said of it, this is my resting place, here will I dwell forever, (not because they
deserved it,) but because I have desired it, and where God is pleased to dwell, under his influence
your institution (which we trust is of Him) may expect to live and thrive. We desire it may
be considered that this is its birth place, here it was kindly received, and nourished when
no other door was set open to it--here it found friends when almost friendless, yea when despised
and contemned abroad--its friends are now increased here as well as elsewhere, and although
by reason of our poverty and the hardness of the times, our subscriptions are small compared
with what some others may boast, being at present but about £810 lawful money, yet there are
here some other privileges which we think very valuable and serviceable to the design, viz.
400 acres of very fertile and good land, about forty acres of which are under improvement,
and the remainder well set with choice timber and fuel, and is suitably proportioned for the
various branches of Husbandry which will much accommodate the design as said land is situated
within about half a mile of our Meeting House, and may be purchased for fifty shillings lawful
money per acre. There is also several other small parcels of land suitably situate for building
places for the use of the school to be sold at a reasonable rate. We have also a beautiful
building place for said school within a few rods of said meeting house, adjacent to which is
a large and pleasant Green: and we are confident that wood, provisions, and clothing, etc.,
which will be necessary for the school, may be had here not only now, but in future years,
at as low a rate as in any place in the colony, or in any other place where it has been proposed
to settle your school. These privileges, we think, are valuable and worthy your consideration,
and also of those honourable and worthy gentlemen in England to whom you have committed the
decision of the affair, and from the friendly disposition which has so many years past and
does still reign in our breasts towards it, we think it may be presumed we shall from time
to time be ready to minister to its support as occasion shall require and our circumstances
permit. We take the liberty further to observe that such has hitherto been the peace and good
order (greatly through your instrumentality), obtaining among us that the members of your school
have all along been as free from temptations to any vicious courses or danger of fatal error
as perhaps might be expected they would be on any spot of this universally polluted globe.

"Here, dear sir, your school has flourished remarkably. It has grown apace; from small beginnings
how very considerable has it become; an evidence that the soil and climate suit the institution--if
you transplant it you run a risk of stinting its growth, perhaps of destroying its very life,
or at least of changing its nature and missing the pious aim you have all along had in view;
a danger which scarce needs to be hinted, as you are sensible it has been the common fate of
institutions of this kind that charitable donations have been misapplied and perverted to serve
purposes very far from or contrary to those the pious donors had in view; such is the subtilty
of the old serpent that he will turn all our weapons against ourselves if possible. Aware of
this, you have all along appeared to decline and even detest all such alliances and proposals
as were calculated for, or seemed to promise any private emolument to your self or your friends.
This, we trust, is still your prevailing temper, and rejoice to hear that your friends and
those who are intrusted with the affair in England are exactly in the same sentiments, happy
presage not only of the continuance of the institution itself but we hope of its immutability
as to place. One thing more we beg leave to mention (not to tire your patience with the many
that occur), viz. if you remove the school from us, you, at the same time, take away our Minister,
the light of our eyes and joy of our hearts, under whose ministrations we have sat with great
delight; whose labors have been so acceptable, and we trust profitable, for a long time; must,
then, our dear and worthy Pastor and his pious institution go from us together? Alas, shall
we be deprived of both in one day? We are sensible that we have abused such privileges and
have forfeited them; and at God's bar we plead guilty--we pray Him to give us repentance and
reformation, and to lengthen out our happy state; we own the justice of God in so heavy losses,
if they must be inflicted; and even in the removal of our Candlestick out of its place, but
we can't bear the thought that you our Dear Pastor and the dear friends to your pious institution
should become the executioners of such a vengeance. However, we leave the matter with you,
and are with much duty and filial regard, dear sir, Your very humble servants or rather obedient
children.

    "By order of said Society,    Israel Woodward,
                                  James Pinneo,
                                  Asahel Clark, Jr."

    "June 29, 1767."

This interesting document bears the same date with Mr. Wheelock's Doctorate in Divinity, from
the University of Edinburgh.

Dr. Wheelock, appreciating the importance of a better knowledge of the comparative advantages
of the various proposed locations, finally determined to commission trustworthy agents, to
make thorough explorations. We give his language, in substance:

    "Lebanon, Connecticut, July 20, 1768.

"Whereas the number in my Indian Charity School is now, by the blessing of God, become so large
as that it is necessary the place where to fix it should be speedily determined, and so many
and generous have been the offers made for that purpose by gentlemen of character and distinction
in several neighboring governments, I do, therefore, hereby authorize and appoint the Rev.
Mr. Ebenezer Cleaveland, of Gloucester, in the province of the Massachusetts Bay, and my son,
Ralph Wheelock (while the Rev. Dr. Whitaker is performing the like part in Pennsylvania) in
my name and stead, to wait upon his Excellency John Wentworth, Esq., Governor of New Hampshire,
and his associates in office, to know what countenance and encouragement they will give to
accommodate and endow said school, in case it should be fixed in the western part of that province."

Deep interest in Dr. Wheelock's work being manifested by Rev. Thomas Allen and others, at Pittsfield;
Timothy Woodbridge and others, at Stockbridge;[18] and Abraham J. Lansing, the founder of Lansingburg,[19]
and many others in that Province, they were also instructed to extend their explorations to
Western Massachusetts and to New York.

      [18] See Appendix.

      [19] See Appendix.

The following is the material portion of Mr. Cleaveland's report:

"I waited upon his Excellency John Wentworth, Esq., Governor of New Hampshire. He appeared
very friendly to the design--promised to grant a township, six miles square, to the use of
the school, provided it should be fixed in that Province, and that he would use his influence
that his Majesty should give the quit-rents to the school, to be free from charge of fees except
for surveying. Esquire Whiting, the Deputy Surveyor, being present, offered his assistance
to look out the township and survey it, and give the service to the school. His Excellency
the Governor recommended him to me for that purpose (since which, we found Landaff, a good
township, to have forfeited the charter, of which we advised the Governor, and were informed
[that] he promised to reserve it for the school). After spending a few days on our way with
gentlemen of the lower towns, who appeared universally desirous that the school should come
into that Province, and were generous in their offers to encourage the same, but proposed their
donations, generally, where their interests in land lay we proceeded to Plymouth, Romney, and
Compton, where Mr. Whiting left me. Five thousand acres of land were proposed to be given,
on condition the school be fixed in either of these towns. Seventy-five pounds sterling and
twenty thousand feet of boards (besides land) are offered on condition it should be fixed in
Compton. The arguments used for fixing the school here are--'t is the centre of that province;
good and easy portage by land and water to Portsmouth and Newbury; but twenty-seven miles further
than Connecticut river from the Indians.

"From thence I travelled to Cohos, on Connecticut river; the inhabitants of that new country
were universally much engaged to have the school fixed there, both from a respect to Dr. Wheelock's
person and a regard to the general design; it would be too lengthy to mention the particular
offers that were generously made. Besides what has been already mentioned, upwards of sixteen
thousand acres are already subscribed, chiefly by gentlemen of the most noted and public characters
in the Province of New Hampshire; and more is subscribing to have it fixed in the country of
Cohos. Besides which, large subscriptions have been made and are still making which centre
in particular towns, the principal of which and those where I was advised, and thought proper
to take the most particular view, were Haverhill and Orford. These places are about equally
distant from Portsmouth, ninety-two miles, thirty of which is good water carriage, the rest
may be made a good wagon road. In this new country there are more than two hundred towns chartered,
settled, and about to settle, and generally of a religious people, which do, and soon will,
want ministers; and they have no college or public seminary of learning for that purpose in
that Province, which want they apprehend may be supplied by this school without any disadvantage
to, or interfering in the least, with the general design of it. These places are situate about
forty miles nearer to the Six Nations than the place where the school now is; they are about
one hundred miles from Mount Royal and about sixty from Crown Point; and, perhaps, about sixty
from the Indians at St. Francis, to whom there is water portage by Connecticut and St. Francis
Rivers, except a mile or two; there is also water carriage from hence by the Lakes and St.
Lawrence River, etc., by the Six Nations and the tribes many hundred miles west, except very
small land carriages. Population in this new country is very rapid, and will doubtless be much
more so if the Doctor should remove there with his school, and their lands will soon bear a
great price. From hence I went with Mr. John Wright (whom the Doctor sent to accompany me in
my further inquiry) to Hatfield, in the Province of the Massachusetts; and found gentlemen
there universally desirous to have the school fixed in Berkshire County in the western part
of that Province."

This region was visited by them, as well as New York. During the autumn of 1768, by commission
of Dr. Wheelock, Mr. Cleaveland, in company with Mr. Allen Mather, also attended a large "Congress"
of several Indian tribes, at Fort Stanwix. In his report, after referring to friendly conference
with other chiefs, he says: "I also saw one from Caghnawaga near Montreal, who desired to know
if he could get his son into Dr. Wheelock's school, and manifested a great desire to send him.
I told him there was talk of the school's going to Cohos. He said if it should be fixed there,
he believed that many of that tribe would send their children to it."[20] This Canadian chief's
statement was considered, most carefully, by Dr. Wheelock. The proper documents were forwarded
with the least practicable delay to the English Trustees, and elicited the following response:

      [20] See Appendix.

    "London, 3d April, 1769.

"Reverend Sir:--Last week we received your letters of the 22d and 23d December, 1768, and 10th
of January, 1769; and being convinced how necessary it is for the prosperity of your pious
institution, as well as for the peace of your own mind, that a place should be fixed upon for
the future establishment of your school as soon as possible, we have attentively considered
the report of Mr. Ebenezer Cleaveland, whom you employed to take a view of the several spots
proposed for that purpose, together with the other papers which have now and heretofore been
transmitted to us relative to that matter; and, upon weighing the several generous offers and
proposals that have been made to you by gentlemen of different governments for the benevolent
purpose of promoting the important design of your institution, and the reasons that have been
offered or have occurred to us in support of each, we are unanimously of opinion that the most
advantageous situation for carrying on the great purposes of your school, will be in one of
the townships belonging to the District of Cowas, in the Government of New Hampshire, agreeable
to the proposal of Governor Wentworth and the gentlemen who have generously expressed their
intention of contributing to that design; but whether Haverhill or Orford may be the most eligible
for this purpose, we must leave to your judgment to determine. According to the best information
we can procure of the state of those towns, we think you may possibly give the preference to
the former, especially if the farm which you mention as very convenient for an immediate supply
of provisions, can be procured upon reasonable terms.

"We found our opinion, principally, upon this reason, that it appears to us that Cowas is the
most central of the situations that have been proposed between the Indians of the Six Nations,
on the one hand, and those of St. Francis and of the other tribes to the eastward, on the other;
and that it is not inferior to any of the rest in other respects. For this reason, we cannot
but recommend to you to accept the offers of Governor Wentworth and the Gentlemen in New Hampshire.
And we heartily pray that the same good Providence which has so remarkably blessed your undertaking
hitherto, may continue to protect and prosper it in its farther progress, and may prolong your
life, that you may have the satisfaction to see it fixed upon such a plan as may afford a reasonable
hope of answering all the good purposes you have in view.

    "We are, Reverend Sir,

    "Your most obedient servants,

    Dartmouth,
    S. S. Smythe,
    Samuel Roffey,
    John Thornton,
    Daniel West,
    Charles Hardy,
    Samuel Savage,
    Jos. Robarts,
    Robert Keen."

    "Received August 10, 1769."

CHAPTER VI.

A COLLEGE CHARTER.

The long-protracted efforts of Mr. Wheelock,[21] to provide legal safeguards for donations
in aid of his great work, now demand careful attention.

      [21] It will be observed that the appropriate title, at the period
           under consideration, is given to the founder of the college
           here as elsewhere in this work.

The deed of Mr. Joshua More, conveying two acres of land with buildings attached, was dated
July 17, 1755, a short time previous to his death. Mr. Wheelock now placed himself in confidential
relations with two eminent lawyers in New York, William Smith, and his son William Smith, Jr.,
the latter of whom, perhaps, may be said to have left his impress upon the Constitution of
the United States, through his distinguished pupil, Gouverneur Morris. The correspondence,
at first, seems to have been chiefly with Mr. Smith, Senior. August 6, 1755, he writes to Mr.
Wheelock: "The means for the accomplishment of so charitable a design seem at present very
imperfect." He suggests, that there is "no incorporation" of Mr. Wheelock and the other gentlemen
to whom Mr. More conveyed the property; that the deed contains "no consideration;" and that
the estate is at most only "for life." He advises Mr. Wheelock, at least, to procure a better
deed, which was afterwards executed by Mrs. More. The death of Mr. Wheelock's most influential
and valuable associate trustee, ex-President Williams, only a few days after the conveyance
by Mr. More, was a severe loss, and a temporary embarrassment to his associates. But Mr. Wheelock
determined to proceed in his efforts for an incorporation, relying mainly upon the dictates
of his own judgment for direction. After the lapse of some five years, in February, 1760, he
gives the results to Mr. Smith, in language of which the following is the substance: "We sent
home some years ago for the royal favor of a Charter. Lord Halifax approved the design, but
[to save expense] advised, instead of a Charter, the establishment of the school by a law of
Connecticut Colony, and promised that when sent there it should be ratified in Council, which
he supposed would be as sufficient as any act there. Hereupon I attended our Assembly, in May,
1758, with a memorial, the prayer of which was granted by the House of Representatives; the
Governor and Council negatived it, upon the ground that their action would not be valid, if
ratified in England, beyond this Colony, and that a corporation within a corporation might
be troublesome, as Yale College had sometimes been. I am since informed that the Earl of Dartmouth
has promised, if the matter shall be put into a proper channel, to undertake and go through
with it at his own expense."

Thus it appears that Lord Dartmouth was desirous of aiding Mr. Wheelock by his influence, and
otherwise, long before being asked by him for pecuniary aid. In explanation of the governor's
objections, it should be stated, that Mr. Wheelock desired such an incorporation as would enable
him to locate his school in any of the American Colonies, and that there was just at that period
an earnest contest between the corporation of Yale College, led by President Clap, and the
Colonial government, in regard to the control of that institution.

Nothing having been accomplished in the meantime, Mr. Wheelock writes in July, 1763, to his
friend, Dr. Erskine, as follows: "Governor Fitch privately proposes my removing my prayer for
an incorporation from this government [Connecticut]. It is likely we shall delay, it till we
see the success of our suit for the Royal favor." In September following, he writes to his
friend, Mr. De Berdt, in London, that he has sent to him "materials, by General Lyman[22] and
Colonel Dyer,"[23] to enable him to "make application for an incorporation." Unsuccessful as
before in England, for reasons which will become more apparent hereafter, in May, 1764, we
find Mr. Wheelock petitioning the Connecticut Assembly "to incorporate" six gentlemen of the
Colony, including George Wyllis, of Hartford, and himself, as legal guardians of his school.
But he did not procure the long-desired incorporation.

      [22] The distinguished Gen. Phineas Lyman.

      [23] Hon. Eliphalet Dyer, of Windham.

In 1765, being about to send solicitors of charity on a larger scale to England, Mr. Wheelock
decided to make yet one more effort there for an act of incorporation. A letter from Mr. Smith,
written evidently about this time, no date being attached, contains advice to Mr. Wheelock
in which we trace one of the most prominent features of the Charter. He proposes, in substance:
"an application to the King for a short Charter incorporating. First, A sett of gentlemen in
the Colonies near Mr. Wheelock, who shall have all the power of a corporation, as to managing
estates, supplying vacancies, etc. Second, Another sett in England and elsewhere in Europe,
who, shall be correspondents of the first sett, and only have the general power of securing
donations to be transferred to them."

Lord Dartmouth and the other gentlemen in England who were constituted, by Mr. Wheelock, a
Board of Trust for the moneys collected in that country, by Messrs. Occom and Whitaker, seem
to have thought this private incorporation amply sufficient for the security of these funds.
In writing to Mr. Keen, in November, 1767, Mr. (now Dr.) Wheelock alludes to the fact that
this gentleman had expressed an opinion that his successor should be "in all respects accountable
to the present Trust." Although dissenting from this opinion, Dr. Wheelock seems to have been
prudent and conciliatory in his intercourse with his worthy benefactors, wisely deeming it
an object of primary importance to raise the requisite funds for his operations.

Messrs. Occom and Whitaker having fulfilled their mission abroad, and generous promises of
aid having been made by Governor Wentworth, we find Dr. Wheelock, in October, 1768, writing
to him as follows: "As soon as the place to fix the school shall have been determined to be
in your Province, I will appoint your Excellency, or the Governor for the time being, to be
a Trustee on this side the water till a legal incorporation may be obtained." This shows that
Dr. Wheelock was not averse to a judicious admixture of the clerical and lay elements in the
Board of Trust, although the Trustees named in his will, the germ of the charter, were clergymen.

The suggestion seems to have been most kindly received by Governor Wentworth. Dr. Wheelock
now determined to avail himself of the aid of his firm and valuable friend, Rev. Dr. Langdon,
of Portsmouth. A letter from him to this gentleman is as follows:

    "Lebanon, April 7, 1769.

"Reverend and dear Sir,--Yours by Captain Cushman is safe arrived, and I have considered the
contents. And for several reasons I am of opinion that it will be best that the Trustees be
the same for the present, as I have already appointed in my will, which I have made at the
desire of the Trust in England, whose names were, with the will, some time ago transmitted
to them. The affair is very delicate, and as such must be conducted, or it will disgust those
worthy gentlemen, and overset all. Their sentiments of an incorporation have been differing
from mine. They have insisted that I should conduct the whole affair without one, and that
my successor should be nominated and appointed by my will. Experience, they think, has fully
taught them that, by means of an incorporation, such designs become jobs, and are soon ruined
thereby. They choose to hold the moneys collected there in their own hands for this purpose,
and accordingly have publicly declared their Trust of the same under their hands and seals,
and have disposed of it, as their wisdom directed, for the benefit of the school. I have, therefore,
after much study and consultation in the affair, appointed two setts of Trustees, namely, those
in England who have voluntarily condescended to make themselves so, to take care of whatever
concerns the object in view on that side the water; and a sett in this vicinity, to take care
of and perform whatever shall concern it on this side. I have appointed a successor, to take
care of the school, etc., only till he shall be approved and confirmed by the concurrence of
both setts of Trustees, or till they all agree in another, nominated by either and approved
by both, each sett to have power to supply vacancies in their Trust, made by death or resignation,
by the major vote of the survivors; something like this I conceive will be most agreeable to
the Right Honorable, Honorable, and generous benefactors who have accepted the Trust in England,
and I apprehend it will make the design popular and respectable.

"The Trustees here will hold and have the disposal of lands given in America for this use;
and I apprehend it will be proper for his Majesty's Governor of the Province for the time being
to be a Trustee, but at present I have not light enough to determine a propriety in making
his Majesty himself one on this side the water.

"I have several reasons, which appear to me weighty, for having the body of the Trustees first
incorporated in this vicinity.

"1. They will be at hand to conduct the affairs of the school, missionaries, schoolmasters,
etc., till I can get settled in the wilderness, which will be impracticable, if they are at
the distance of Portsmouth.

"2. Several of the Trustees talk of removing with me to settle in that vicinity; and if so,
they may for a time act as a committee, till a sufficient number suitable for that Trust shall
be settled (as you will observe will be expedient) near to the school.

"3. Till this be done, my connections will likely be such as will oblige me to make frequent
visits to these parts, where we may have a full meeting of the Board without any expense.

"4. Gentlemen here have been so much concerned in Indian affairs, that I suppose it not to
be immodest to say ceteris paribus, they are at present better qualified to act therein than
those who will have to encounter a thousand dangers and difficulties before unthought of.

"5. By having the body corporate here, I can claim a valuable subscription of £400 or £500
for the use and support of the school, payable as soon as it becomes a body corporate, besides
a tenement in this place, given for the same purpose.

"If the school should once be settled in those parts, it is likely population will proceed
with much greater rapidity than ever, and the whole will be soon effected.

"I design to consult some gentlemen of the law relative to an incorporation, and get a rough
draught made, with a view to save time if the School should be fixed in your Province. Please
to discourse his Excellency of thoughts I have here suggested, and transmit such remarks as
he shall please to make thereon. Please to commend my respects suitably to him, and accept
the same yourself from, reverend and dear sir,

    Your Friend and Brother, etc.,
    "Eleazar Wheelock."

"Colonel Wyllis and Esquire Ledyard," of Hartford, were among Dr. Wheelock's legal advisers
in 1768, and probably at this period.

June 7, 1769, we find Dr. Wheelock addressing Governor Wentworth as follows:

"I have been making some attempt to form a Charter, in which some proper respect may be shown
to those generous benefactors in England who have condescended to patronize this school, and
I want to be informed whether you think it consistent to make the Trust in England a distinct
corporation, with power to hold real estate, etc., for the uses and purposes of this school."

But the impress of Governor Wentworth does not appear till a somewhat later period. August
22, 1769, Dr. Wheelock informs him that he is about to present him a "rough draught" of a Charter,
for an "Academy," adding this somewhat significant postscript: "Sir, if you think proper to
use the word College instead of Academy in the Charter, I shall be well pleased with it."

Dr. Wheelock's son-in-law, Mr. Alexander Phelps, and Rev. Dr. Whitaker seem to have been the
principal agents to confer with Governor Wentworth in regard to the Charter.

October 18, 1769, he gives his views at length, in a letter to Dr. Wheelock, advising some
amendments. Proposing some additions to the Board of Trust, he says: "The nomination of the
Provincial officers I strongly recommend, though I do not insist upon. It was indeed resolved
on my side that the Governor should be one" of the Board. "That I did not mention any other
than the Governor can by no means be preclusive. Neither did I so intend it. The three Provincial
officers will be a natural defense, honor and security to the institution."

The following letter indicates that Governor Wentworth had eminent legal counsel:

"Rev. Sir: I have had an opportunity of conferring with Colonel Phelps on the affair of the
College proposed to be erected here. You'll find some alterations in the scheme and draft of
the Charter; they are supposed to be amendments, and I think they, to say the least, will not
be impediments. I cannot stay to enumerate them; the Charter will show them and the Colonel
will be able to explain the grounds and reasons of them. I have spent some considerable time
with the Governor to form the plan in such a manner as will make it most beneficial, and to
prevail on him to make such concessions as would suit the gentlemen with you. I am apt to think
the plan will be more serviceable as it now stands than as it was before.

I shall be glad to serve the cause, and have persuaded Colonel Phelps to communicate it before
the finishing stroke, though it will cost him another journey. I have only to add that I am,
with great esteem,

    "Your most obedient humble servant,
    "William Parker.
    "Portsmouth, October 28, 1769."

Six Connecticut clergymen, selected by Dr. Wheelock, with one member of the Connecticut Colonial
government, Governor Wentworth, with three of his Council, and the Speaker of the New Hampshire
House of Representatives, were constituted the first Board of Trust. This arrangement, the
result of friendly negotiation, appears to have been satisfactory to both parties.

October 25, 1769, Dr. Wheelock writes to Governor Wentworth, expressing much satisfaction with
his "catholic views," and warm friendship, as indicated by his letter of the 18th, and says:
"If your Excellency shall see fit in your wisdom and goodness to complete the Charter desired,
and it will be the least satisfaction to you to christen the House to be built after your own
name, it will be exceedingly grateful to me, and I believe to all concerned." He deems it important
that the public should understand, "that the benevolent charities are not designed to be applied
merely and exclusively to the advancement of sectaries, with a fixed view to discourage the
Established Church of England." It should here be remarked that three of the original Trustees
of the College were nominally Episcopalians, and the remaining nine were, most or all, nominally
Congregationalists, although some had Presbyterian tendencies.

In writing to Lord Dartmouth, March 12, 1770, after referring to the "enclosed copy of incorporation,"
which was dated December 13, 1769, President Wheelock says: "Governor Wentworth thought best
to reject that clause in my draught of the Charter which gave the Honorable Trust in England
equal power with the Trustees here to nominate and appoint the president, from time to time,
apprehending it would make the body too unwieldy, but he cheerfully consented that I should
express my gratitude and duty to your Lordship, by christening after your name; and as there
seemed to be danger of many embarrassments, in many ways, in the present ruffled and distempered
state of the kingdom, I thought prudent to embrace the first opportunity to accomplish it."
The letter indicates that Dr. Wheelock determined what should be the name of the institution
without conferring with his distinguished benefactor on that point.

That the English Trustees were somewhat dissatisfied, temporarily, with the measure of responsibility
assumed by Dr. Wheelock, there is no doubt. But nearly perfect harmony was restored, by the
prudence of that excellent diplomatist. In writing to these gentlemen, June 20, 1771; he says:
"I am confident that, had you been upon the spot, you would have approved every step I have
taken, unless it was my attempt to effect so great an affair as settling in this wilderness
in so short a time, which the event has fully justified, although my trials have been very
great." He also expresses the opinion, that, if they will compare his plan proposed in his
former letters with his procedure since, they will find that he has "invariably kept the same
object in view." Later records indicate that President Wheelock still numbered Lord Dartmouth
and others of the English Board among his faithful friends. Although not officially connected
with the college, they evidently cherished an abiding interest in its welfare.

The Charter, so remarkable in its history, is a valuable and an enduring monument to the genius,
skill, and learning of its distinguished framers.[24] Like the Charters of Harvard and Yale,
it indicates that the clergy were regarded, generally, as the best depositaries of educational
trusts. In the former case, the "teaching elders" of the "six next adjoining towns" were ex-officio,
"Overseers;" in the latter, the original Trustees were all clergymen. It may safely be asserted
that, of the large number of eminent gentlemen, who, as Trustees, have administered the affairs
of Dartmouth College, none have been more eminent for their wisdom or fidelity than the reverend
clergy.

      [24] See Appendix.

In his "Narrative" for 1771, President Wheelock tells the story of Dartmouth's location in
the Granite State so plainly and satisfactorily, that we can do no better than to give his
own recapitulation and condensation of the leading facts.

"The smiles of heaven upon this school were such that it appeared quite necessary to build
to accommodate it; and the plan which I laid for this purpose was to secure a sufficient tract
of good land for the only use and benefit of the school, and that the English charity scholars
should be led to turn their exercises for the relaxation of their minds from their studies,
and for the preservation of health, from such exercises as have been frequently used by students
for these purposes, to such manual labor as might be subservient to the support of the school,
thereby effectually removing the deep prejudices, so universal in the minds of the Indians,
against going into the business of husbandry."

"The necessity of building, and also that I proposed to fix it at any distance where the design
might be best served by it, became publicly known, whereupon great numbers in Connecticut and
in neighboring Provinces made generous offers to invite the settlement of it in their respective
places. In which affair I employed proper agents to view the several situations proposed, and
hear the several arguments and reasons that might be offered by the solicitors for it, and
make a faithful report of the same.

"The magistracy of the city of Albany offered an interest estimated at £2,300 sterling, besides
private donations, which it was supposed would be large, to fix it in that city. Several other
generous offers were made to fix it in that vicinity. His Excellency, Sir Francis Bernard,
Governor of the Province of the Massachusetts Bay, in company with two others, offered 2,000
acres of good land in a central town[25] in the county of Berkshire in said Province. To which
were added several other donations, amounting in the whole to 2,800 acres of land, and a subscription
said to be about £800 sterling. Also generous offers were made to it in Stockbridge and other
towns in that Province. Several generous offers were made by particular towns and parishes
in the Colony of Connecticut, and particularly to continue it where it had its rise. But the
country being so filled up with inhabitants, it was not practicable to get so large a tract
of lands as was thought to be most convenient and useful for it in those old settlements. The
Honorable Trust in England gave the preference to the western part of the Province of New Hampshire,
on Connecticut river, as the site of the school."

      [25] Pittsfield.

Before this period he "began to be convinced by many weighty reasons that a greater proportion
of English youth must be prepared for missionaries to take entirely the lead of the affairs
in the wilderness." He also was deeply impressed with the want of ministers in a large number
of towns, nearly two hundred in all, just then newly settling in the Connecticut valley. In
view of all the circumstances, and especially the fact that there was a disposition on the
part of many young men who had the ministry in view to seek preparation for it elsewhere, than
at Yale or Harvard, he felt it his duty to adhere to his plan of extension.

"As neither the Honorable Trust in England nor the Charter had fixed upon the particular town
or spot on which the buildings should be erected, wherefore to complete the matter, as soon
as the ways and streams would allow, I took the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy, and Esq. [Samuel] Gilbert
(a gentleman of known ability for such a purpose) with me to examine thoroughly, and compare
the several places proposed, within the limits prescribed for fifty or sixty miles on or near
said River; and to hear all the reasons and arguments that could be offered in favor of each
of them, in which service we faithfully spent eight weeks. And in consequence of our report
and representation of facts, the Trustees unanimously agreed that the southwesterly corner
of Hanover adjoining upon Lebanon was the place above any to fix it in; and that for many reasons,
namely, it is most central on the River, and most convenient for transportation up and down
the River; as near as any to the Indians; convenient for communication with Crown Point on
Lake Champlain, and with Canada. The situation is on a beautiful plain, the soil fertile and
easy of cultivation. The tract on which the college is fixed, lying mostly in one body, and
convenient for improvement, in the towns of Hanover and Lebanon, contains upwards of 3,000 acres."

We quote from official records:

    "Portsmouth, New Hampshire, July 5, 1770.

"We, the subscribers nominated Trustees of Dartmouth College, in the Charter of said college,
and being duly qualified as directed by said Charter, have taken into consideration the places
whereon said college might be situated; and do hereby certify that it is our advice, opinion
and vote that said Dartmouth College be situated and erected upon lands in the township of
Hanover upon Connecticut river in the Province aforesaid, provided the lands, moneys, and other
aids subscribed for the use of said Dartmouth College, if placed in Hanover aforesaid, be firmly
and securely conveyed to the Trustees of and for the use of said College. And also that the
said town of Hanover, and Lebanon, previously consent and petition to the Legislature that
a contiguous parish of at least three miles square, in and adjoining to these aforesaid towns
of Hanover and Lebanon, be set off and incorporated into a separate and distinct parish under
the immediate jurisdiction of the aforesaid Dartmouth College.

"In witness whereof we have hereunto signed this instrument for placing buildings and establishing
the said college in Hanover aforesaid, upon the aforesaid conditions.

    "J. Wentworth.
    "Theodore Atkinson.
    "Eleazar Wheelock.
    "George Jaffrey.
    "D. Pierce.
    "P. Gilman.
    "Benj. Pomeroy."

    "Hartford, 17th July, 1770.

"We, the subscribers, being nominated Trustees of Dartmouth College, and being duly qualified
according to the Charter of such college, do hereby agree to the situation of said college
as determined by the Trustees as above signed; provided (in addition to the conditions they
have specified), that Dr. Wheelock may be accommodated with a suitable farm, at or near the
college; apprehending that his past labors and expenses, and his present connection with said
institution, justly merit such consideration.

    "Wm. Pitkin,
    "James Lockwood,
    "Timothy Pitkin,
    "John Smalley."

The "Coos" region now demands our more careful attention.

While southern New England was largely occupied by emigrants from the Mother Country, and their
descendants, in the seventeenth century, much of its northern portions, and especially the
rich valley of the upper Connecticut, was still covered with the virgin forests. As early as
1752, Theodore Atkinson (whose name will become more familiar to us) and others in Eastern
New Hampshire, had formed a plan for acquiring and colonizing the best portion of this unoccupied,
but fertile and inviting, basin. But the proud and lordly Indian disputed their right to invade
this ancient and charming hunting-ground, whose meadows almost spontaneously produced the choicest
corn, and they desisted from their purpose.

The immediate occasion of the settlement of this part of the Connecticut valley was the French
war. In the progress of that war, the New England troops had cut a road from the older settlements
in the south part of the Province through Charlestown, then called No. 4, to Crown Point. The
soldiers in passing through this valley became acquainted with its fertility and value.

The soil of Eastern Connecticut being exhausted in some measure, her hardy and enterprising
yeomanry now gladly turned toward a region where honest industry would find a surer and better
reward. Many of them knew the value of religion by a vital experience, and all knew the value
of sound learning by experience or close observation.

The leading founders of Hanover were of the highly respectable Freeman family, of Mansfield,
Conn. The early history of this family in America connects it with the Bradford and Prince
families. The pioneer settler at Hanover was Edmund Freeman. Of this worthy and enterprising
man, sincere Christian, earnest patriot, and valuable coadjutor of President Wheelock, it is
said: "Of distinguished uprightness and integrity, he commanded universal respect and esteem."
Hon. Jonathan Freeman was his brother.

Another family to whom Hanover is largely indebted for its solid foundations bears the no less
distinguished name of Storrs, also of Mansfield, the old ancestral home of all, or nearly all,
of that name, who in various ways have been conspicuous in giving "strength and beauty" to
American institutions. Of Joseph Storrs, an early donor to Dartmouth, it is said: "He was the
younger son of Samuel Storrs the second, and grandson of Samuel Storrs the elder, from whom
all of the name in America are descended, excepting one family near Richmond, Va. He was a
member of the first board of selectmen of the town of Hanover."

The town contained about twenty families at the period of which we are writing. The relations
of some other early settlers with President Wheelock deserve equally careful notice. John Wright,
from Lebanon, Conn., was a man of marked ability and decided religious character. He was deeply
interested in the new college, and as pioneer explorer and artisan rendered its founder invaluable
aid. His name also heads the list of the Hanover donors of lands.

David Woodward, formerly a parishioner of President Wheelock, and afterward widely known for
his strong mind, his public spirit, and patriotism, also coöperated earnestly with him while
he was laying foundations. His house appears to have furnished the venerable president his
first headquarters, while planning future operations.

Nathaniel Wright, from Coventry, Conn., was a relation of John Wright. His descendants have
honored the college, as some of them still honor the memory of an ancestor, whose name is inseparably
and prominently connected with the civil and religious history of the town. His heart and hand
were with President Wheelock, and his log cabin was a welcome resting-place.

James Murch, one of the more enterprising among the early settlers, was also from Connecticut,
where he had formed some acquaintance with President Wheelock and his plans. Upon him it seems
to have devolved, in some measure at least, to set forth in homely but vigorous language the
leading attractions of this locality.

Reverting to the "Narrative," we give President Wheelock's own graphic account of labor and
privation, which, in view of all the circumstances, has few parallels in history:

"After I had finished this tour [of exploration] and made a short stay at home, to settle some
affairs, I returned again into the wilderness, to make provision for the removal and settlement
of my family and school there before winter. I arrived in August [1770], and found matters
in such a situation as at once convinced me of the necessity of being myself upon the spot.
And as there was no house conveniently near, I made a hutt of logs about eighteen feet square,
without stone, brick, glass, or nail, and with thirty, forty, and sometimes fifty laborers
appointed to their respective departments, I betook myself to a campaign. I set some to build
a house for myself and family, of forty by thirty-two feet, and one story high, and others
to build a house for my students of eighty by thirty-two, and two stories high."

His family and about twenty or thirty students arriving before the completion of his house,
difficulty in locating having arisen, he says: "I housed my stuff with my wife and the females
of my family in my hutt. My sons and students made booths and beds of hemlock boughs, and in
this situation we continued about a month, till the 29th day of October, when I removed with
my family to my house."

A few last words to one who for a long period had regarded his work with more than fraternal
interest, and himself with more than fraternal affection, fitly portray the state of President
Wheelock's mind and heart in those days of toil and trial and hope:

"From my Hutt in Hanover Woods in the Province of New Hampshire, August 27, 1770.

"My dear Sir:--I long to see you and spend one day with you on the affairs of the Redeemer's
kingdom. It would be vain to attempt to tell you of the many and great affairs I am at present
involved in, in all which I have had much of the loving-kindness, faithfulness, and goodness
of God. I am this day sending for my family and expect the house will be made comfortable for
their reception by the time they arrive. My prospects are, by the goodness of God, vastly encouraging.
A series of merciful occurrences has persuaded me that God designs great good to his church
among English as well as Indians by this institution. I was informed at Boston, in my late
journey, that the Commissioners have plenty of their constituents' money which lies useless
for want of missionaries, and for many weighty reasons I have thought that the Redeemer's cause
might be much served by Mr. Kirtland's[26] going to their pay. This was an important point
I wished to consult you in. Likely your own thoughts may suggest some reasons and such as you
shall think sufficient without my disclosing many that are not public. If you think favorably
of it, please to propose it to them, as you will likely have an opportunity for before you
leave the continent. I have a number fitted and fitting for missions more than the fund already
collected will support, and if that may be saved, and at the same time uniformity and good
agreement between the Boards is promoted, it will be well. I wrote you from Dedham on my late
journey from Boston. I rejoice to hear that your bow yet abides in strength; that God has once
more made you useful in America. I am chained here; there is no probability that the buildings
will be seasonably and well accomplished if I should leave them. I don't expect to see you
till we meet in the general convention on the other shore. Please to favor me with a line,
and your thoughts on the question proposed. You may send from Boston by the Northfield post,
directed to me at Hanover in this Province. Oh, how glad should I be to see you in this wilderness!

      [26] The modern orthography is Kirkland.

"My dear sir, farewell.

    "I am yours in the dear Jesus.
    "Eleazar Wheelock.
    "Rev. George Whitefield."

There appears to have been no subsequent meeting, on earth, of these eminent coadjutors in
all good works. The one was called to his reward above, just as the other was beginning to
enjoy the fruition of his labors on earth. Few names deserve more honor, in connection with
the founding of Dartmouth College, than that of

    George Whitefield.[27]

      [27] Many things, which cannot be specified, illustrating the
           history of this period and others, are necessarily placed
           in the Appendix.

CHAPTER VIII.

COMMENCEMENT OF OPERATIONS.--COURSE OF STUDY.--POLICY OF ADMINISTRATION.

Instruction at Dartmouth appears to have commenced in December following the removal, with
four classes in attendance.

In writing to Dr. Erskine, December 7, 1770, President Wheelock says: "I am now removed into
the wilderness with my family, and about thirty students, English and Indians, who are all
designed for the Indian service." After referring to the erection of a house for his family,
and "another" for his students, he says: "I have also built a school-house, which is convenient.
My nearest neighbor in the town is two and one half miles from me. I can see nothing but the
lofty pines about me. My family and students are in good health, and well pleased with a solitude
so favorable to their studies."

In President Wheelock's account-book, David Huntington, Thomas Kendall, Ebenezer Gurley, Augustine
Hibbard, James Dean, and Joseph Grover, are charged with tuition from various dates, ranging
from December 7th to December 14th. The rate is 1s. 4d. per week, "deducting abscences." In
Connecticut, the tuition, for classical instruction in the school, had been 1s. 6d. per week.

The following, from President Wheelock to a distant correspondent, indicates sufficient patronage
of the new institution:

    "Hanover, December 3, 1770.

"Dear Sir,--Your son, with companion, are safely arrived. I've sent back part of my students
to Connecticut. I've just got studies fitted, and made provision for the support of the rest
of them. The great difficulty in taking your son is the want of provisions in this starved
country. I send to Northfield and Montague for my bread, and expect supply chiefly from thence."

The facilities for acquiring classical and scientific education appear to have been substantially
the same at Dartmouth, at the outset, as in other American colleges of that period.

The discoveries of Newton and Franklin had a marked, if not controlling, influence upon the
thought of the eighteenth century.

No American college, perhaps, felt this influence more than President Wheelock's Alma Mater,
in which Franklin took a deep interest.

At the period of the founding of Dartmouth, we find that, in Yale College, the Faculty consisted
of Dr. Daggett, who was President, and Professor of Divinity; Rev. Nehemiah Strong, Professor
of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, and two or three tutors.

President Wheelock doubtless had his Alma Mater especially in mind, in planning the curriculum
of Dartmouth. He was himself Professor of Divinity, as well as President. His first associate
in instruction, who acted in the capacity of tutor, was Mr. Bezaleel Woodward, who had graduated
at Yale College in 1764, during the presidency of Rev. Thomas Clap, of whom his associate in
the Faculty, the future President Stiles, says: "In Mathematics and Natural Philosophy I have
reason to think he was not equaled by more than one man in America." The fact that Mr. Woodward
was subsequently, for many years, a highly esteemed professor of Mathematics in the college,
indicates that he was a worthy pupil of his distinguished teacher.

There can be no doubt that the college was highly favored, in its beginnings, in having a president
who had been, while at college, distinguished as a classical scholar, and in later life as
an able and a learned divine, aided by a younger teacher, whose scientific attainments well
qualified him for the duties of his position.

The first preceptor of the Charity School, at Hanover, was David McClure, who had recently
graduated at Yale College. He was an able and a successful teacher. The various relations of
the school and college were so intimate at this period, that it is nearly impossible to dissociate
them. The word "school," as used by President Wheelock, frequently includes the college.

Three of Dartmouth's first class were prepared for college at the "Indian Charity School" in
Lebanon, and passed their first three years at Yale.

The following letter from an eminent teacher, referred to in a previous chapter, addressed
to President Wheelock, introduces their only new classmate:

"Lebanon, August 10, 1770.

"Rev. Sir: The bearer, Samuel Gray, entered my school about two years ago, and in that time
has been about four months absent. He was well fitted for college when he was first under my
care, and having applied himself with proper diligence to his studies, and being favored with
a genius somewhat better than common, has made a progress in his learning answerable to his
industry. He will be found upon examination to be pretty well acquainted with Virgil, Tully,
and Horace. He is likewise able to construe any part of the Greek Testament. He parses and
makes Latin rather better than common. He has been through the twelve first books of Homer,
but, as 't is more than a year since he recited that author, am afraid he has lost the greater
part of what he then understood pretty well. In Arithmetic, vulgar and decimal, he is well
versed. I have likewise taught him Trigonometry, Altimetry, Longimetry, Navigation, Surveying,
Dialing, and Gauging. He has been through Martin's 'Philosophical Grammar' twice,--the greater
part of which he understands very well. He has likewise studied Whiston's 'Astronomy,' all
except the calculations, which he doth not understand. He is likewise pretty well acquainted
with Geography and the use of the globes. He went through Watts' 'Logic' last winter, but having
no taste for that study, or rather an aversion to it, he is not so well skilled in that as
in some other parts of learning. About a year ago he went through so much of rhetoric as is
contained in the 'Preceptor,' but suppose he has forgot the most of it. Upon the whole, though
he may not, perhaps, be so well versed in some parts of learning as the class which he proposes
to enter, yet if he applies himself to his studies with proper diligence, he will be rather
an honor than a disgrace to any college where he shall be graduated. I ought in justice to
him to add, that he is an orderly, well-behaved youth, and has conducted so well in my school
ever since he has been with me that I have never had the least difference with him on any account
whatever.

    "I am, reverend sir, with much esteem,
    "Your most humble servant,
    "Nathan Tisdale.

"P. S. I have another pupil whom I shall offer for admission into your college at the end of
the vacancy [vacation], if I can fit him by that time."

       *       *       *       *       *

A portion of a letter from a somewhat distinguished clergyman and teacher, Rev. Simeon Williams,
of Windham, N. H., introducing several prominent members of the class of 1774, is worthy of
notice here, although written in 1772. In connection with the reply, it throws additional light
upon the first prescribed course of study at Dartmouth. After expressions indicating confidence
that President Wheelock will attend, faithfully, to the welfare of the young men, the language
is as follows:

"When they first came to my school they had read enough of Virgil and the lower Latin classics,
together with a sufficient knowledge of the Greek Testament, to enable them to pass into any
of the colleges as Freshmen. But when their fathers informed me that they intended their residence
only for two years, and that they expected, if they were under my care, I would qualify them
in all the parts of the Freshman and Sophomore years, so as they might with honor and ability
enter the Junior class, with mature deliberation, I undertook the arduous task. The first year
I confined their studies to Virgil, Cicero's 'Orations,' together with their improvement in
Geography, Rhetoric, and occasional declamations, etc. This second year they have been reading
Homer and Horace, Cicero de Oratore, and a part of Xenophon. I have also carefully instructed
them in all the four parts of Logic from Doctor Finlay's 'Latin Compend,' expounding the same
by familiar lectures, for the most part extracted from Mr. Locke and Doctor Watts. There is
one kind of study which this last year they have been much employed in,--I mean double translation,--their
improvement therein will appear to you by casting your eye on their various manuscripts. I
would observe to you that I have not introduced them to the knowledge of mathematical learning,
knowing it is most usual in colleges to put them to those studies in the Junior year."

In reply President Wheelock says: "We have examined the youth you sent, and find them deficient
in several parts of learning which the [Junior] class have made some proficiency in, viz.,
Mathematics, Geography, and parsing Greek. They have studied Tullie de Oratore, and Xenophon,
and some in Homer, more than that class have done. On the whole I have concluded to take them
into that class, only with this condition, that they recite those things in which they are
deficient with the Sophomore class while their own class recite other parts in which they exceed
them." The studies of the Senior year do not appear to have differed materially from those
of other colleges, of that period. Jonathan Edwards was a favorite author in metaphysics and
theology.

President Wheelock in his "Narrative," for 1771, gives the following lucid statement of the
policy and aims of the school and college: "It is earnestly recommended to the students both
in college and school,

"1. That all the English students in the college and school treat the Indian children with
care, tenderness and kindness, as younger brethren, and as may be most conducive to the great
ends proposed.

"2. That they turn the course of their diversions and exercises for their health to the practice
of some manual arts, or cultivation of gardens, and other lands, at the proper hours of leisure
and intermission from study and vacancies in the college and school.

"3. That no English scholar, whether supported by charity or otherwise, shall, at any time,
speak diminutively of the practice of labor, or by any means cast contempt upon it, or by word
or action endeavor to discredit or discourage the same, on penalty of his being obliged, at
the discretion of the president or tutor, to perform the same or the equivalent to that which
he attempted to discredit; or else (if he be not a charity scholar) to hire the same done by
others, or, in case of refusal and obstinacy in this offense, that he be dismissed from college,
and denied all the privileges and honors of it.

"4. That no scholar shall be employed in labor in the hours of study, or so as to interrupt
him in his studies, unless upon special emergencies, and with liberty from the president or
a tutor.

"5. That accounts be faithfully kept of all the labor so done by them, either for the procuring
provisions for the support of the college and school, or that which shall be for real and lasting
advantage to this institution; and such accounts shall be properly audited, and a record kept
of the same for the benefit of such scholars, if they should be called by the providence of
God to withdraw from their purpose of serving as missionaries in the wilderness, or to leave
the service before they have reasonably compensated the expense of their education.

"6. That such as are not charity scholars, but pay for their education, may have liberty to
labor for the benefit of the institution at such times as are assigned to charity scholars,
and the just value of their labor be accounted towards the expense of their support.

"7. That no Freshman shall be taken off, or prevented labor, by any errand for an under-graduate,
without liberty obtained from the president or a tutor.

"N. B. Occasional errands and services for the college and school are not designed to be accounted,
nor their procuring fuel for their fires, and things equivalent for their own and their chamber's
use in particular, nor anything which shall not be of real or lasting benefit for the whole,
unless in cases where they are incapacitated for labor, and yet are able to perform such errands
for or in the room of those who can and do labor in their stead.

"Lastly. That this Indian Charity School, connected with Dartmouth College, be constantly hereafter
and forever called and known by the name of 'Moor's School.'

"Moreover poor youth, who shall seek an education here, at their own expense, may not only
have the advantage of paying any part of that by turning their necessary diversions to manual
labor, but also, as all that will be paid by such as support themselves will be disposed of
for the support of the Indian, or other charity scholars, therefore, whatever clothing or provisions
shall be necessary for the school will be good pay at a reasonable price.

"His Excellency Governor Wentworth, among many other expressions of his care and zeal to preserve
the purity and secure the well-being of this seminary against such evils as have been the ruin
of, or at least have a very threatening aspect upon others which have come within his knowledge,
has insisted upon it as a condition of location, to which all the trustees have cheerfully
subscribed, that wherever it should be fixed, there should be a society of at least three miles
square, which should be under the jurisdiction of the college, that thereby unwholesome inhabitants
may be prevented settling, and all hurtful or dangerous connections with them, or practices
among them may be seasonably discovered and prevented in a legal way.[28]

      [28] The town of Hanover, at three different times within the next
           twenty-five years, by their vote sanctioned this
           incorporation of the "College District." But the plan was
           never favorably regarded, apparently, by the New Hampshire
           Legislature.

"As this institution is primarily designed to christianize the heathen, that is, to form the
minds and manners of their children to the rules of religion and virtue; and to educate pious
youth of the English to bear the Redeemer's name among them in the wilderness; and secondarily
to educate meet persons for the sacred work of the ministry, in the churches of Christ among
the English; so it is of the last and very special importance, that all who shall be admitted
here in any capacity, and especially for an education, be of sober, blameless and religious
behavior, that neither Indian children nor others may be in danger of infection by examples
which are not suitable for their imitation. And accordingly I think it proper to let the world
know there is no encouragement given that such as are vain, idle, trifling, flesh-pleasing,
or such as are on any account vicious or immoral, will be admitted here; or, if such should
by disguising themselves obtain admittance, that they will not be allowed to continue members
after they are known to be such; nor will it be well taken, if, on any pretense whatever, any
shall attempt to introduce or impose any youth upon this seminary, whose character shall be
incongruous to, and militates against, the highest, chiefest, and dearest interests of the
first objects of it.

"And it is my purpose, by the grace of God, to leave nothing undone, within my power, which
is suitable to be done, that this school of the prophets may be and long continue to be a pure
fountain.

"And I do with all my heart will this my purpose to all my successors in the presidency of
this seminary, to the latest posterity; and it is my last will never to be revoked, and to
God I commit it, and my only hope and confidence for the execution of it is in Him alone, who
has already done great things for it and does still own it as his cause; and blessed be his
name that every present member of it, as well as great numbers abroad, I trust, do join their
hearty Amen with me."

The foundations being completed, the superstructure now claims our attention. We give somewhat
full details of affairs during the opening years. The following is an extract from a letter
from Mr. M'Clare to his early friend, General Knox, dated at Hanover, March 20, 1771:

"The winter has been very moderate and the heavens clear and serene. The situation is much
more agreeable than I imagined it would be last fall, before I set out from Connecticut. The
number of the students in the college and school is about thirty. I have at present the care
of the Grammar School, and I find no small pleasure in 'teaching the young idea how to shoot.'
Heaven has remarkably smiled upon the generous and pious design of the Reverend Doctor, and
supported it amidst numberless difficulties and embarrassments, and it affords a prospect of
being in time a great and extensive blessing to this part of the world and to the tawny inhabitants
of our continent."

The first Commencement, in August, 1771, attracted a large audience, including many from a
distance, among them Governor Wentworth. Dr. Langdon had previously manifested his deep interest
in the college by a personal visit.

In his "Narrative," for the period from May, 1771, to September, 1772, President Wheelock says:

"I have now finished (so far as to render comfortable and decent) the building to accommodate
my students, of eighty by thirty-two feet, and have done it in the plainest and cheapest manner,
which furnishes sixteen comfortable rooms, besides a kitchen, hall, and store-room. I have
also built a saw-mill and grist-mill, which appear to be well done, and are the property of
the school, and will likely afford a pretty annual income to it. I have also built two barns,
one of twenty-eight by thirty-two feet, the other of fifty-five by forty, and fifteen feet
post. I have also raised, and expect to finish, within a few days, a malt-house of thirty feet
square, and several other lesser buildings which were found necessary. I have cleared, and
in a good measure fitted for improvement, about seventy or eighty acres of land, and seeded
with English grain about twenty acres, from which I have taken at the late harvest, what was
esteemed a good crop, considering the land was so lately laid open to the sun. I have cut what
is judged to be equal to fourteen or fifteen tons of good hay, which I stacked, by which the
expense of supporting a team and cows the ensuing winter may be considerably lessened. I have
also about eighteen acres of Indian corn now on the ground, which promises a good crop. My
laborers are preparing more lands for improvement; some to sow with English grain this fall,
and others for pasturing, which sad experience has taught me the necessity of, as I have suffered
much by being disappointed of this benefit, through the negligence of a number, who subscribed
labor to encourage the settlement of the school in this place, and, in excuse for their not
being as punctual in performing as they appeared liberal in subscribing, plead their poverty
and the necessities of their families in their new beginnings in this wilderness.

"I hope through the blessing of God, even the ensuing year, we shall find that near sufficient
has been raised on these lands to supply the school with bread, which will be a great relief
not only as to the expense, but as to care and fatigue in procuring it; as the greatest and
cheapest part of the support of my family has been transported above an hundred, and much of
it near two hundred miles through new and bad roads; which has made the expense of some articles
equal to the first cost, and many of them much more. The cheapest fodder I had the last winter
to support my team and a few cows was brought forty miles on sleds by oxen.

"It is not easy for one who is not acquainted with the affair of building and settling in such
a wilderness to conceive of the many difficulties, fatigues, and extraordinary expenses attending
it; nor does it make the burden at all less, if there are numbers settling within a few miles,
who are poor and needy, and so far from having ability to contribute their assistance to others,
as to stand in constant need of help themselves.

"The number of my students belonging to the college and school has been from forty to fifty,
of which from five to nine have been Indians. The English youth on charity are all fitting
for missionaries, if God in his providence shall open a door for their serving him in that
capacity, and they have been about twenty.

"My students have been universally well engaged in their studies, and a number of independent
as well as charity scholars, have only by turning a necessary diversion to agreeable manual
labor, done much to lessen the expense of their education the last year."

In an appendix to this "Narrative," dated September 26, 1772, after referring to a prospect
of obtaining sons of some of the Caghnawaga chiefs, President Wheelock says: "One was a descendant
from the Rev. Mr. Williams, who was captivated from Deerfield in 1704. Another was a descendant
from Mr. Tarbell, who was captivated from Groton [in 1707], who is now a hearty and active
man, and the eldest chief, and chief speaker of the tribe. The other was son to Mr. Stacey,
who was captivated from Ipswich, and is a good interpreter for that tribe."

In view of all the facts within our knowledge, it seems more than possible that the influence
of these and other captives, now venerable with age, upon their red brethren, on the one hand,
and dim but precious memories of their own childhood, on the other, had aided materially in
determining the location of the college. The patronage of the Canadian tribes was President
Wheelock's main reliance for Indian students after his removal to Hanover.

In regard to the missionaries sent out by President Wheelock at this period, his biographer
says: "Some went into the Mohawk and Oneida country, others to the Indians upon the Muskingum,
and several to the tribes within the bounds of Canada. They found the Indians, the Oneidas
excepted, universally opposed to them."[29]

      [29] Memoirs of Wheelock, p. 63.

Perhaps it will be safe to make a slight abatement from the somewhat sweeping statement which
closes this quotation.

In his "Narrative" for the period between September, 1772, and September, 1773, President Wheelock
says: "My crops were considerably shortened the last year, by an uncommon rain at the beginning
of harvest, and by an untimely frost, yet the benefit of that which is saved is very sensible.
I have this year cut about double the quantity of hay which I cut last year, namely, about
thirty tons. I have reaped about twenty acres of English grain, which crop appeared to be very
heavy before harvest, and proved too much so, as a considerable part of it fell down of its
own weight before maturity; however, though it be much less than the prospect was, it is a
very considerable relief. I have about twenty acres of Indian corn on the ground, which, considering
the newness and imperfect tillage of the land, promises a considerable crop.

"I have cleared sufficient for pasturing, i. e. have cut and girdled all the growth upon five
hundred acres, and a part of it have sowed with hay-seed; the rest I expect will be ready to
receive the seed as soon as it shall be dry enough to burn the trash upon it in the spring.
The soil is generally good, and I hope the school will experience the benefit of it in due
time. I have inclosed with a fence about two thousand acres of this wilderness, that I might
be able to restrain oxen, cows, horses, etc., from rambling beyond my reach.

"I have seven yoke of oxen and about twenty cows, all the property and employed in the service
of the school. The number of my laborers for six months past has generally been from thirty
to forty, besides those employed at the mills, in the kitchen, wash-house, etc. The number
of my students, dependent and independent, the last year was about eighty. A little more than
three years ago there was nothing to be seen here but a horrid wilderness; now there are eleven
comfortable dwelling-houses (beside the large one I built for my students), built by tradesmen
and such as have settled in some connection with, and have been admitted for the benefit of,
this school, and all within sixty rods of the college. By this means the necessities of this
school have been relieved in part as to room for my students. Yet the present necessity of
another and larger building appears to be such that the growth of this seminary must necessarily
be stinted without it.

"When I think of the great weight of present expense for the support of sixteen or seventeen
Indian boys, which has been my number all the last year, and as many English youth on charity,
eight in the wilderness who depend upon their support wholly from this quarter, which has been
the case a considerable part of this year, such a number of laborers, and under necessity to
build a house for myself (as the house I have lived in was planned for a store-house, and must
be used for that purpose) and expense for three and sometimes four tutors, which has been the
least number that would suffice for well instructing my students, I have sometimes found faintness
of heart. But I have always made it my practice not to exceed what my own private interest
[property] will pay, in case I should be brought to that necessity to do my creditors justice."

In his "Narrative" for the period between September, 1773, and February, 1775, President Wheelock
says: "The number of Indians in this school since my last 'Narrative,' has been from sixteen
to twenty-one, and the whole number of charity or dependent scholars about thirty." The whole
number of students was now about one hundred.

"The progress of husbandry on this farm, the last year, has not been equal in every respect
to my hope, the season proving so wet as not to favor some branches of it. However, the progress
of it and the benefit by it, have been very considerable. I have raised and reaped upon the
school land, the last year, about three hundred bushels of choice wheat, but the crop of Indian
corn fell much short of my expectations, being but about two hundred and fifty bushels. I have
cut sixty tons of hay the last season, and have a prospect of a very considerable addition
to that quantity the next, if Providence shall favor it.

"I have begun to prepare and have a prospect that I shall be able to fit about sixty acres
of new land to sow with wheat the next season. I have improved about twelve or fourteen oxen,
and about twenty cows, the property of the school, and have a prospect of plenty for their
support for summer and winter, and I find already the great benefit of having wherewith to
do it this winter without the fatigue and expense of going forty miles for it, as I have been
forced to do till this year."

He also refers to important agricultural operations, and the erection of buildings at Landaff--Governor
Wentworth's first choice as a location for the college--and preparations for a new college edifice.

To Messrs. Savage and Keen, he writes, October 24, 1775: "The progress of the great design
under my hand has been as rapid since resources from your side the water have been suspended
as ever. Every day turns out some new wonder of Divine favor towards it. I have this day been
out to see my laborers who have near finished sowing one hundred and ten acres of wheat and
rye, but mostly of wheat, one hundred acres of it on new land. No providences, however calamitous
to others, not even our present public distresses, but seem as though they were calculated
to favor this design. God gives me all I ask for, and He is a prayer-hearing God."

We are indebted to the present librarian of the college[30] for the following interesting facts
relating to this period:

      [30] Professor C. W. Scott.

"The library of Dartmouth College may be considered as older than the college itself, as it
had its origin in the 'Indian Charity School,' and existed as a handful of books before the
granting of the college Charter. These books are found principally among the theological works,
in folio volumes, with Latin texts or notes, and uninviting type. Received as they were more
than a hundred years ago, they were then publications of the preceding century; and they would
hardly find their way into the library to-day, if admitted upon the demand of readers, yet
in their bindings and worn leaves they show that by some one they were thoroughly used. A copy
of 'Lightfoot's Harmony of the New Testament,' under date of June, 1764, has written across
a leaf: 'Received from the Rev. Dr. Gifford, of London, sundry second-hand books given by poor
persons to the Indian Charity School in Lebanon, of which this is one.' Marks on other volumes
show that Dr. Gifford was a contributor as well as a collector. Edinburgh, too [through Dr.
Erskine], sent its offering of books, and as the struggling school came to be better known
in England, through the commissioners sent to solicit aid, and through other sources, such
gifts probably became not infrequent. The early history and intentions of the college were
such as to particularly interest clergymen, and in proportion to their means they were doubtless
the most generous givers of books. Their names written across fly-leaves show that many volumes,
in different parts of New England, did service in their studies before finding a place in the
college library. One of the most noteworthy of such benefactors was Rev. Diodate Johnson, of
Millington, Conn., who, besides other gifts, in 1773 bestowed his entire library."

Nearly at the same period with Mr. Johnson's donation, Hon. John Phillips, of Exeter, made
a handsome donation, for a philosophical apparatus. The subsequent appropriation of the money,
for another purpose, compelled the college to dispense with this useful furniture for a considerable
period.

The commencement of the Revolutionary struggle soon proved a serious embarrassment to President
Wheelock: "The din of war drowned the feeble voice of science; men turned away from this 'school
of the prophets' to hear tidings from the camp." But the heroic founder stood manfully at his
post, faithfully performing his duty, with only brief interruptions, until, in the midst of
that great conflict which made us a nation, he was called to his reward. He died, after a lingering
illness, at Hanover, on the 24th of April, 1779. His first wife, Mrs. Sarah (Davenport) Maltby
Wheelock, of the distinguished John Davenport family, died in Connecticut. His second wife,
Mrs. Mary (Brinsmead) Wheelock, was spared to minister to the last earthly wants of her revered
companion.

President Wheelock lived to see his earnest efforts to promote sound learning crowned with
a good measure of success.

The graduates of this period attained such eminence, in nearly all the paths of professional
usefulness, as to indicate most plainly that they had laid good foundations in college. They
were honored as teachers, as divines, and as legislators. The condition of the college and
the country gave them abundant opportunities for appreciating the inscription on the armor
of the Dartmouth family: "Gaudet tentamine virtus."

Instead of burning the "midnight oil" of the modern student, they kept the midnight watch against
savage foes, at least at certain periods. To us, this all looks like romance. To them, it was
stern reality.

In a fitting tribute to President Wheelock,[31] Rev. Dr. Allen says:

      [31] Sprague's Annals of the American Pulpit.

"If it should be asked what success attended the efforts of Dr. Wheelock to communicate the
gospel to the Indian nations, it may be replied that he accomplished something for their benefit,
and that great and insuperable obstacles in the providence of God prevented him from accomplishing
more. It was soon after he sent out missionaries into the wilderness, that the controversy
with Great Britain blighted his fair and encouraging prospects. During the last four years
of his life there was actual war, in which many of the Indian tribes acted with the enemy.
Yet the Oneidas, to whom Mr. Kirkland was sent as a missionary, kept the hatchet buried during
the whole Revolutionary struggle, and by means of this mission, probably, were a multitude
of frontier settlements saved from the tomahawk and the scalping-knife. But even if nothing
had been accomplished for the benefit of the Indians, yet the zeal which chiefly sought their
good, reared up a venerable institution of science, in which many strong minds have been disciplined
and made to grow stronger, and nerved for professional toils and public labors, and in which
hundreds of ministers have been nurtured for the church of Christ.

"For enlarged views and indomitable energy, and persevering and most arduous toils, and for
the great results of his labors in the cause of religion and learning, Dr. Wheelock must ever
be held in high honor. He early placed one great object before him, and that object held his
undivided attention for nearly half a century. It is not easy to describe the variety of his
cares and the extent of his toils. When he removed to Hanover his labors were doubled. The
two institutions--the school and the college--were ever kept distinct; in both he was a teacher;
of both he was the chief governor. He was also the preacher of the college and village. In
the government of his school and college, Dr. Wheelock combined great patience and kindness
with the energy of proper and indispensable discipline. He was of a cheerful and pleasant temper
and manifested much urbanity in his deportment."

This clear and forcible language has additional weight when we consider, that, during nearly
the whole period of his administration, he had only the aid of tutors, with no other professor.

President Wheelock's usefulness in the great field of education was not confined to the sons
of the forest, during his residence in Connecticut. He sought out John Smalley, the son of
one of his parishioners, in his humble home, prepared him for college, and thereby gave him
the primary impulse and aid, without which one of New England's ablest theologians, and the
teacher of others of widely extended influence, might have remained in life-long retirement.
He took Samuel Kirkland, the son of a worthy but indigent brother in the ministry, and, to
use his own language, "carried him" in his arms, till he had completed a thorough preparation
for the ministry, and finally furnished him a wife from his own kindred and his own household.
His distinguished beneficiary, beside all his other labors, laid the foundation of Hamilton
College, and gave to Harvard the president of its "Augustan age," his son, John Thornton Kirkland.
He left the impress of his intellectual and religious character upon his pupil, Benjamin Trumbull,
the records of whose life give him a conspicuous place among the earnest preachers and careful
historians of his day. The valuable influence of others of his early pupils will be felt in
ever extending circles, down to "the last syllable of recorded time."

There was no need that Eleazar Wheelock should found a college at that advanced period of life
when men naturally seek a measure of repose, in order to secure for his name an honorable position
in the long and brilliant catalogue of American educators. The crowning act of his life, in
the mellowed maturity of age, was scarcely more or less than the logical, inevitable result
of what preceded it.

The scope of our work does not permit any extended eulogy of President Wheelock, nor any thorough
analysis of his character. With a brief reference to some leading points, we must close the record.

He was eminent as a scholar. The constantly recurring and ever pressing duties of earnest and
varied professional life, left him little leisure for indulging in the luxuries of mere æsthetic
culture; but his active mind ranged widely through the realms of ancient and modern thought,
and freely appropriated of the richest of their treasures.

He was eminent as an orator. His eloquence was not graced with the well-rounded periods of
a Burke, or a Webster; but in many a village and hamlet, the burning words which fell from
his lips stirred the hearts of men to their profoundest depths.

He was eminent as a teacher. Through life he gladly embraced every opportunity of opening the
treasuries of knowledge to his fellow-men; and many who sat under his instruction were thereby
laid under large obligations, although, in the rude halls of the infant college, he was always
more or less embarrassed by the cares of business and the infirmities of advancing years.

He was eminent in affairs. He raised funds; procured corporate franchises and safeguards; leveled
forests, and reared edifices in the face of apathy, opposition, and rivalry, with a fertility
of resources in planning, and an energy in executing, which won the admiration of contemporaries
in both hemispheres.

He was eminent as a patriot. When his faithful friend, the last Royal Governor of New Hampshire,
upon whom through years of toil and trial he had leaned as upon a strong staff, abandoned his
office, and resolutely adhered to his Sovereign, and many others to whom he was strongly attached,
arrayed themselves on the same side, he as resolutely espoused the cause of American Independence,
and labored to the extent of his ability for its accomplishment.

But neither the scholar, nor the orator, nor the teacher, nor the man of affairs, nor the patriot,
nor all combined, would have secured to any man that conspicuous position upon the page of
history which the leading founder of Dartmouth College will occupy, so long as solid worth
and successful achievement shall command the attention of the discriminating, thoughtful reader.

Religion was the mainspring of his entire life, the real source of all his success. Without
it, he might have been honored of men; with it, he was honored of God. Encircling all the separate
parts of his character, like a golden chain, it bound them in one grand, beautiful, harmonious
whole.

In the hallowed seclusion of that thrice-honored valley, where Jonathan Edwards was born and
Thomas Hooker died,--on the western verge of that modest plain, where his long and fruitful
life bore its latest, richest fruit,--his precious dust will slumber "till the heavens be no
more," and not till then will the Christian scholar, who lingers among the hills of central
New England, cease to pay his devotions at the grave of

Eleazar Wheelock.

CHAPTER X.

PROGRESS DURING THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE SECOND PRESIDENT, JOHN WHEELOCK.

The first President of the College, availing himself of a provision in the Charter, named three
persons in his will, some one of whom he desired should be his successor in the office. These
were his son, Mr. John Wheelock, Rev. Joseph Huntington, of Coventry, Conn., and Prof. Sylvanus
Ripley. Mr. Wheelock, although a young man, in response to the somewhat earnest solicitation
of the Trustees, after mature deliberation decided to accept the position. His son-in-law,
Rev. Dr. Allen, gives the leading points in his earlier life in the following language:

"He was born [a son by the father's second marriage] at Lebanon, Conn., January 28, 1754, and
graduated in Dartmouth's first class, in 1771. In 1772, he was appointed a tutor, and was devoted
to the business of instruction until the beginning of the Revolution. In 1775, he was a member
of the [N. H.] Assembly. In the spring of 1777, he was appointed a Major in the service of
New York, and in November, a Lieutenant-colonel in the Continental army under Colonel Bedel.
In 1778 he marched a detachment from Coos to Albany. By direction of Stark he conducted an
expedition into the Indian country. At the request of General Gates, he entered his family,
and continued with him, until he was recalled to Hanover by the death of his father, in 1779."

The following pages, extracted from the "Sketches of the History of Dartmouth College and Moor's
Charity School," prepared and published under President Wheelock's sanction, are deemed worthy
of insertion in this connection.

"The founder and first president spent nine years in planting and raising up a new society,
in converting forests into fields,--supporting many youths on charity. Persevering through
difficulties, without any stipend for his labors, the seminary grew in vital strength;--but
destitute of patronage in America, its resources in Europe mostly expended, and the residue
wholly obstructed, beset with calamities by the troubles and disasters of the Revolutionary
War, it was reduced, in childhood, to nakedness and want, in the year 1779. Soon after the
treasurer, making an estimate of the demands upon it, pronounced that all the property of the
corporation, if sold at vendue, would not be sufficient to cancel its debts. Under these clouds,
the successor of the founder came into office, with a humble sense of his duty, and a belief
that God, who had protected and sustained the seminary in floods of trouble, would relieve
and build it up. He solicited benefactions abroad for support of the charity youths of the
school in 1780, 1781, and 1782.

"In the latter part of that year Dr. Wheelock, the president, set off for Europe. The Institution
and his design were known, and sanctioned by very ample recommendations, unnecessary to be
inserted here, issuing from the highest sources in America--from the President and a great
majority of the members of Congress, in their official characters;--it ought to be recorded--from
the Father of his Country, George Washington, who well knew Dr. Wheelock, while an officer
in the Revolutionary War, and honored him with his particular notice and friendship; from many
of the most celebrated generals of the army, and Governors of the different states, with introductory
letters from the Chevalier de Luzerne, minister plenipotentiary from the court of Versailles,
to Count de Vergennes, prime minister of France, from the Secretary of the United States, and
other eminent characters to different parts of Europe.

"After some weeks spent in France, Dr. Wheelock, receiving introductory and friendly letters
to Mr. Dumas, the American Chargé d'Affaires, and others in Holland, from Dr. Franklin, and
John Adams, proceeded to the Netherlands. A considerable sum was obtained in the Netherlands;
but we omit a particular account of the respectful treatment and generous benefactions he received
from the Prince of Orange and others high in office.

"Thence he embarked for Great Britain, partly with a view, much lessened by the public feelings
from the Revolution in America, to obtain some new aids; but chiefly to reclaim and negotiate
for the fund in Scotland, belonging to the school. It had been barred from before the death
of his predecessor, whose bills were protested, and still lay with their charges unredeemed,
besides large accounts for the support of Indian youths, without the means of payment, unless
by exhausting the residue of the property of the college. He traveled from Poole to London,
where he paid his first and grateful respects to the Earl of Dartmouth, Mr. John Thornton and
others, who, being formerly of the Board of Trust, had been in friendly relations with the
founder, and patronized and cherished the seminary, in the jeopardies of its infancy. With
his eyes invariably on the object, by an introductory letter from Dr. Macclion, to Ralph Griffith,
Esq., LL. D., he obtained friendly access to Mr. Straghn, member of parliament and the king's
printer, and became acquainted with his son-in-law, Mr. Spotswood. This respected gentleman,
largely connected, and concerned in the agencies of Scotland, took a benevolent and decisive
part in consulting, and adopting measures to restore the fund, at Edinburgh, in the care of
the Society, to its primitive channel. Communications were opened--the bills were paid; and
the way prepared for future negotiations, till the Society were convinced of the justice of
the claim. The money has since been applied to the support of the school in its original design;
and arrearages of interest remitted to the president to cancel the debts overwhelming the seminary.
He, also, while in England, as on the continent, procured some coins and articles appreciated
by the virtuosi. By the benevolence of Paul Wentworth, Esq., Doctor Rose, and other friends
to the college, some valuable philosophical instruments were obtained, and others promised,
the making of which the two former kindly engaged to superintend, and forward the whole, so
soon as completed, to America. A way, besides, was preparing to provide natural curiosities
for a museum. Those instruments, with their additions, well constructed, forming an apparatus
sufficient for all the more important experiments and observations in Natural Philosophy, afterwards
arrived; and at the same time a curious and valuable collection of stones and fossils from
India, and different parts of Europe, for the museums from the beneficent Mr. Forsythe, keeper
of the king's gardens, at Kensington. All these with costs of transportation, were gifts received
at the college, by the Trustees. Only a word more; a large and elegant gold medal was presented
by Mr. Clyde of London, to Dr. Wheelock, in his official character. It is wholly irrelevant
to our purpose, and needless to speak of the personal civilities and friendly notices of Lord
Rawden, by whose goodness he was introduced at the House of Lords, of Sir John Wentworth, Sir
J. Blois, Dr. Price, and others, besides those before mentioned.

"Within three months after the President's return (in 1784) the Board of Trustees convened
and resolved, if sufficient means could be obtained, to erect an edifice of about one hundred
and fifty by fifty feet, three stories in height, for the college, with convenient accommodations
for the members. The president, professors, and some of the Trustees in the vicinity, were
requested by the Board to solicit subscriptions for the purpose. They depended on Dr. Wheelock's
exertions, he cheerfully undertook. By his arrangement and exertions, in that and the following
year 1785, and by his agents, near fifteen thousand dollars were given but mostly subscribed
to be paid, and chiefly by responsible men in different places. The subscriptions and payments
were all put into the hands of the contractor. He commenced and carried on the building. But
in 1786 he was unable to procure supplies and nothing but an immediate cessation of the business
appeared. Dr. Wheelock afforded relief, by furnishing the joiners, about twenty in number,
with sustenance through the season, and aiding in the collection of materials. In the succeeding
years, the subscriptions and means in the hands of the contractor being exhausted, he procured
by bills on Mrs. Wheelock's agent in the West Indies, and by a residue remitted from Holland
and in other ways by his friends abroad, and his own donation of $333.00, all the glass, the
nails, the vane and spire and other articles and some pay towards the labor. A bell he had
by solicitation obtained before. By the seventh year from the beginning of its foundation,
the edifice [Dartmouth Hall] was finished, and well prepared for the reception of the students.
We will now return to trace another chain of operation.

"Dr. Wheelock, though not at the particular request of the Board, attended the Legislature
of Vermont, June 14, 1785. He solicited; and they made a grant of a township [Wheelock], 23,040
acres, one half to the college and the other half to the school, to be free from all public
taxes forever. As soon as practical he procured a survey, obtained a charter, and made calculations
for its settlement. Families rapidly moved in, till near the number of one hundred. He disposed
of a large part of the tract in small portions on long leases. A few years rent free, the annual
product has been to the college and school, each, six hundred dollars.

"We now turn to the State of New Hampshire. Dr. Wheelock had applied, by the desire of the
Board, to the General Court for a lottery, and obtained it; but from unexpected events not
answering the purpose, they requested him in 1787 to present a memorial to the Legislature
for another lottery under different modifications. Professor Woodward attended as agent--the
design was effected, and the avails received by the Board.

"The pressure of demands on the college induced him to apply and attend the Legislature, in
the month of January, 1739, for the charter of a tract of land on Connecticut river and near
the northern confine of the State. A committee was appointed; occasional discussions arose
for several days; the matter was finally brought before the House. The Senate and House of
Representatives passed an act granting to the Trustees of Dartmouth College a valuable tract
of eight miles square, about 42,000 acres adjoining north of Stewarts town. [Ebenezer Webster
was the chairman of the Legislative committee recommending this grant.] The forcible and energetic
eloquence of General Sullivan, that eminent commander in the Revolutionary War, in the debate
on this subject cannot be forgotten. It drew him from his bed, amidst the first attacks of
fatal disease--and it was the last speech which he ever made in public. This interesting grant
scattered the clouds just bursting on the institution. It was now harrassed with heavy debts
of an early standing in its losses at Landaff, which amounted to $30,000.

"At the time of obtaining the above grant, Dr. Wheelock also negotiated to recover the donation
of $583, made by Dr. John Phillips, in 1772 [for a philosophical apparatus], to the college,
and deposited in the hands of Governor Wentworth, which, after he left the country was considered,
from his circumstances, as wholly lost. But Dr. Wheelock adopted measures and secured an account
of the same and interest out of confiscated property $1,203, in notes and certificates, which
he received of the Treasurer of the State, for the Trustees. He also received, about that period,
$125, committed to his agency by the same great benefactor, in a particular conference to transact
with the Board, said sum to be given in his name to them; only on the express condition, that
they would agree to sequester with it his gift of about 4,000 acres of land by deed to them
in 1781, as an accumulating fund for the express purpose of supporting a professor of Theology.
They accepted the gift and sequestered the property on the terms of the donor.

"The president had taken into his own hands, at the desire of the Board, the management of
the finances and external interest of the college, and continued to conduct, and regulate them,
for five years, through its difficult and trying scenes. Having, besides what has been mentioned,
among other arrangements, leased a number of lots permanently productive, secured the appropriation
of several valuable tracts, in the vicinity of the college, to the use of professorships, and
provided relief by obtaining the means to free the seminary from its weight of debts, he resigned
to the Board, in August following, the particular charge of the finances, except retaining
in trust the disposal of the college moiety of the township in Vermont till a few years after,
when he had completed the proposed object of settling and leasing the same.

"The next year, 1790, there being no proper place for the public religious and literary exercises
of the members of the seminary, the apartment of the old building falling into decay and ruin,
he undertook, made arrangements, provided the means, and erected by contract, in five months,
a chapel, near the new college edifice. It is fifty feet by thirty-six, of two stories height,
arched within and completely finished, and painted without--convenient, and well adapted to
the objects proposed.

"He caused a new building [for Moor's School] to be erected and finished, with a yard, in 1791--two
stories high, the lower apartment convenient to accommodate near a hundred youths. The school
was improved in the order and regulation of its members under the distinguished talents and
fidelity of their instructor Mr. [Josiah] Dunham, the present Secretary of Vermont. At the
request of the Society three years after it was visited by a committee of their Boston commissioners
charged with the solution of a number of queries in regard to its state, relations, and property.
Their favorable report was transmitted to Scotland.

"Of the large debts accumulated for the support of the school, in the latter years of the first
president, to discharge the most pressing part, the Trustees had consented to the disposal
of lands and property in their hands, hoping that the amount would be replaced. The advances,
thus made, the president considered himself as holden in justice to refund; and accordingly
paid them for the college, in the year 1793, $4,000, besides some items of small amount before.
[Lands also appear to have been sold to aid in building Dartmouth Hall.]

"The Rev. Israel Evans [of Concord] at that time was a member of the Board. He had expressed
more than once, in intimate conversation to Dr. Wheelock, their friendship having been long
cemented in scenes of war and peace, his desire to do something for the good of mankind and
the institution. He finally remarked, that he had made up his mind to sequester a portion of
his property as the foundation for a professorship of eloquence; which he knew would also be
agreeable to Mrs. Evans. Confined by sickness the succeeding year, at his earnest request,
by a special message, the Doctor paid him a visit. The latter expressed in his family, his
views and design; and receiving from the former an assent to his wishes to insert his name
as one of the executors, proceeded in the full exercise of his mental faculties, to complete
his will. Besides his bequests otherwise, he gave of money in the funds, and real estate, the
amount of about $7,000, or upwards, in reversion to the Trustees of Dartmouth College, after
the death of his wife, as a permanent fund for a professor of eloquence.

"About the same time, Dr. Wheelock attended the General Court, to open the way for their favorable
attention to the important objects of the institution. Matters were in suspense till the next
session in June 1807, when he again personally appeared before the Legislature. His memorial
was considered, committed, and after report an act was made, granting to the Trustees of the
college a township of the contents of six miles square, to be laid out on the border of the
District of Maine, to the approbation of the Governor and Council. The land was surveyed: mostly
an excellent tract, watered by a branch of the river Androscoggin running central through the
whole, and near the northern turnpike road--he waited on them with the plan, and obtained their
ratification in 1808."

The grant of Landaff to the college had great weight with President Wheelock, in deciding upon
a location. But after he had expended several thousand dollars in improvements there, the title
was found to be defective, and prior grantees secured the whole. In view of this loss, the
State with commendable liberality made the above grants.

There seems to have been no material change in the policy of the college, or the course of
study, in the earlier years of this administration.

The following items from the official records of the Trustees are worthy of notice, the first
bearing date, August, 1794:

"Voted that those Freshmen who wish to be excused from going errands for other students be
not obliged to go, and that those who do not go such errands have not afterwards the privilege
of sending Freshmen.

"Adjourned Meeting, February, 1796. No person shall be admitted into the Freshman class unless
he be versed in Virgil, Cicero's Select Orations, the Greek Testament, be able accurately to
translate English into Latin, and also understands the fundamental rules of Arithmetic."[32]

      [32] Memoirs of Wheelock.

The following statement was published in 1811:

"The immediate instruction and government of the students is with the president, who is also
professor of civil and Ecclesiastical History, a professor of the Latin, Greek, Hebrew and
Oriental Languages, a professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, a professor of Divinity,
and two tutors. The qualifications for admission into the Freshman class are, a good moral
character, a good acquaintance with Virgil, Cicero's Select Orations, the Greek Testament,
knowledge to translate English into Latin, and an acquaintance with the fundamental rules of
Arithmetic. The members of the classes, in rotation, declaim before the officers in the chapel
every Wednesday, at two o'clock, P. M.

"The Senior, Junior, and Sophomore classes, successively pronounce such orations and other
compositions, written by themselves, as the president and professors shall direct, on the last
Wednesday of November, the second Wednesday of March, and the third Wednesday of May. Tragedies,
plays, and all irreligious expressions and sentiments are sacredly prohibited.

"The Languages, the Arts, and Sciences are studied in the following order: the Freshman Class
study the Latin and Greek classics, Arithmetic, English Grammar and Rhetoric. The Sophomore
Class study the Latin and Greek classics, Logic, Geography, Arithmetic, Geometry, Trigonometry,
Algebra, Conic Sections, Surveying, Belles-lettres and Criticism. The Junior Class study the
Latin and Greek classics, Geometry, Natural and Moral Philosophy, and Astronomy. The Senior
Class read Metaphysics, Theology, and Natural and Political Law." Chemistry was introduced
at about this period. "The study of the Hebrew and the other Oriental Languages, as also the
French Language, is recommended to the students. Every week some part of the classes exhibits
composition according to the direction of the authority. All the classes are publicly examined
at stated periods; those who are found deficient lose their standing in the class. It is a
fixed rule that the idle and vicious shall not receive the honors of college.

"The punishments inflicted on offenders are admonition, suspension and expulsion. The president
attends morning and evening prayers with the students in the chapel, and often delivers lectures
to them on ecclesiastical history, on the doctrines of the Christian religion, or other important
subjects. He hears the recitations of the Senior class; his fund of general science renders
this an interesting part of collegiate life."

The librarian continues his statements as follows:

"While the library of the college was slowly increasing in numbers and more slowly in value
as measured by the wants of the students, there were begun two other libraries, designed in
the beginning as supplements, but by their rapid increase and utility soon taking the leading
place. In 1783, was formed the society of under-graduates known under the title of 'Social
Friends' and the collection of a library was begun. Three years later, by the secession of
a part of the members, the rival society of the 'United Fraternity' came into existence. The
aim of the societies was to furnish literary culture, and their exercises and constitutions
differed but little, while each attempted to obtain more and better men, and collect a larger
library, than the other. It was provided in the constitution of the last formed society, that
each member should advance for the use of the library twelve shillings lawful money.

"At a meeting during the next year the society voted to register its books, which consisted
of twenty-three volumes of magazines and thirty-four other books, making with a few presented
at the meeting a library of sixty-three volumes. In 1790, the two societies subscribed to what
they termed 'articles of confederation,' in which it was agreed that a case should be procured
to contain their books, and that each society should aid in the increase of the common library.
For this purpose each society was to advance from one to two dollars for every member, the
sum being largest for the lowest class and least for the Senior class, and a committee was
constituted with power to settle all differences. But however strong the agreement between
the two parties it could not eliminate jealousy; neither were the societies entirely free from
internal dissensions. The records contain accounts of 'conspiracies,' and attempts to destroy
the societies, accompanied by reports of committees, treating the subject with the dignity
of a danger to the State. One of these 'conspiracies' in 1793, terminated in the destruction
of nearly all the records of the 'Social Friends' and almost caused the dissolution of the
society. Much of the strife between the societies was caused by the mode of securing members,
and though there were amendments intended to lessen this, nothing like a settlement was made
until 1815, when an order from the officers of the college limited the membership of each society
to one half of the number in the different classes. It was probably this question of membership
that caused, in 1799, the division of the 'federal library'; the 'United Fraternity' that year
demanding a separation, and the 'Social Friends' replying that they cheerfully concurred. With
the strong rivalry existing, the libraries could but increase more rapidly under separate management,
especially as the students for many years taxed themselves severely, and contributed generously
by subscriptions and donations to fill up their few shelves. Nearly all the books were contributed
by under-graduates, and the value placed upon them forms a marked contrast with the present
use of library books. It was upon these libraries that the students more generally depended,
and while their additions were larger they also had larger losses and suffered more from the
wear of usage. They obtained from time to time the books that were needed, the college library
such as were given, and that was doubtless true during all of the time which was said of it
fifty years later: 'The library contains some rare and valuable works, but is deficient in
new books.' The society libraries from the beginning had regular and frequent hours for drawing
books, while the college library during a great part of its history has been from various reasons
hardly accessible, or open only at long intervals. In 1793, the college began the yearly assessment
of eight shillings on each student, one fourth for the salary of the librarian, and the remainder
for the purchase of new books.

"The first printed catalogue of any of the libraries was of that of the college, and was merely
a list printed in 1810. It mentioned 2,900 volumes, but as there were many duplicates the number
of books of any practical value was less than 2,000. The number of books in each of the society
libraries at this time may be estimated as slightly over 1,000, so that the number of volumes
to which access could be had was not much over 4,000." We quote an item worthy of notice from
official records on this subject:

"Annual Meeting of Trustees, September, A. D. 1783. This Board being informed that Mr. Daniel
Oliver, a student in the Junior class at this College, has made a donation to Library of the
following books [43 volumes; 33 different works], Voted, that the Vice-president be requested
to return him the thanks of this Board and request his acceptance of the use of the college
library free of charge during the term he shall continue a student at this college."

The administration of President John Wheelock is remarkable for two things; its great length,
and its unhappy close.

The great "Dartmouth Controversy" is one of the most impressive chapters in the annals of American
colleges.

In discussing this subject it is necessary to consider some of the influences which had aided
in moulding President Wheelock's character. His residence at Yale College was at an important
period in the history of that institution, commencing soon after the resignation of President
Clap, who had been driven from his position, virtually, for opposing any interference in the
affairs of the college, by the Legislature. The friends of education were divided in sentiment,
as to the wisdom of his course, and the institution was in some sense under a cloud till the
accession of President Stiles--a friend of the Wheelock family--who effected an arrangement
by which the State was admitted to a share in the management of the college. The following
letter from a prominent Trustee of Dartmouth to the president, written just at this period,
shows that the animated contest in Connecticut was only the natural and logical precursor of
one more animated and much more important, in New Hampshire.

    "Charlestown, November 17, 1791.

"Hon. Sir: I have set my name to the petition, etc., although, I confess not without some hesitation
and reluctance. I like the plan well in general,--but there is one exception. I cannot form
any idea of what is intended by the proposal, That the Council, or Senate, or both, be admitted
to some cern in the government of the university [college].

"This appears to me to be a proposal of too much or nothing at all, and of something not in
the power of this Board to confer, who I think cannot admit any foreign jurisdiction, any man,
or number of men to any share in government of the university, properly so termed, otherwise
than what the Constitution specifies.

"I have, however, subscribed under the influence of this consideration: That in the event it
may subject us to no other inconvenience, but the imputation of inconsistence in conduct in
hereafter rejecting a compliance with our own proposal, if we shall find that more is performed
by others than was intended, or can be admitted by us, though fairly enough proffered.

"I think some precautionary injunctions to the Agent in this matter would be wise and prudent.

"In haste--

"I am, sir, with much esteem and sincere affection,

    "Your sincere friend and humble servant,
    "Bulkley Olcott."
    "President Wheelock."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Wheelock's experiences also as a legislator and military commander, in early life, doubtless
gave him a larger confidence in his own abilities on the one hand, and on the other a more
profound conviction that everything in the State should, be subordinate to the State.

The religious aspects of President Wheelock's character, are worthy of special notice. He was
the dutiful, in some sense the favorite son of an honored father. The former president, although
sound in the faith, had more catholic views and broader sympathies than many of the leading
divines of his day. The son was no less liberal than the father. This liberality was doubtless
the real cause of difference between the second president and his associates in office. His
first decided opponent was Nathaniel Niles, who entered the Board in 1793, a man of rare ability,
and in early life a pupil of Dr. Bellamy, whose religious views on some points were materially
different from those of his contemporary and neighbor, the first president.

The first important point gained by Mr. Niles was the election of his friend, Mr. Shurtleff,
to the chair of Divinity, in 1804.

For ten years the breach was constantly widening between the president and his opponents. We
now find the following official records:

"At a meeting of the Trustees, November 11, 1814, the following preamble and resolutions, introduced
by Charles Marsh, Esq., were adopted.

"Whereas, the duties of the president of this university have become very multiplied and arduous;
and, whereas, it is necessary that he should continue to attend to the concerns of this institution,
and the various officers and departments thereof, and should have time to prepare and lay before
this Board the business to which its attention should be directed; therefore, resolved, that,
in order to relieve the president from some portion of the burdens which unavoidably devolve
on him, he be excused in future from hearing the recitations of the Senior Class, in Locke,
Edwards, and Stewart.

"Resolved, that the Professors, Shurtleff and Moore, jointly supply the pulpit, in such manner
as may be agreed between them. That Professor Shurtleff hear the recitation of the Senior class
in Edwards on the Will; that Professor Adams hear the recitation of the Senior class in Locke
on the Human Understanding, and that Professor Moore hear the recitation of the Senior class
in Stewart's Philosophy of the Mind, and that he hear them in both volumes of that work."

This action of the Board was followed by the publication of the "Sketches," and, in June, 1815,
the presentation of the following Petition to the New Hampshire Legislature:

       *       *       *       *       *

"Honorable Legislators,--The citizens of New Hampshire enjoy security and peace under your
wise laws; prosperity in productive labors by means which you have adopted; and, by your counsels,
increasing knowledge in the establishment of literature through the State. But, for none of
these, can so much be ascribed to your attention as for Dartmouth College. By your patronage
and munificence it was flourishing in former years; and so it still would have continued had
the management of its concerns been adapted to answer the designs of your wisdom, and the hopes
of its most enlightened and virtuous friends.

"To your Honorable body, whose guardian care encircles the institutions of the State, it becomes
incumbent on the citizens to make known any change in their condition and relations interesting
to the public good. To you alone, whose power extends to correcting or reforming their abuses,
ought he to apply when they cease to promote the end of their establishment, the social order
and happiness.

"Gladly would the offerer of this humble address, avoiding to trouble your counsels, have locked
up his voice in perpetual silence, while the evils are rolling on and accumulating, were he
not otherwise compelled by a sense of duty to your Legislature, and to the best interests of
mankind, in the present and future times.

"Will you permit him to suggest there is reason to fear that those who hold in trust the concerns
of this seminary have forsaken its original principles and left the path of their predecessors.
It is unnecessary to relate how the evil commenced in its embryo state; by what means and practices,
they, thus deviating, have in recent years, with the same object in view, increased their number
to a majority controlling the measures of the Board; but more important is it to lay before
you that there are serious grounds to excite apprehensions of the great impropriety and dangerous
tendency of their proceedings; reasons to believe that they have applied property to purposes
wholly alien from the intentions of the donors, and under peculiar circumstances to excite
regret; that they have in the series of their movements, to promote party views, transformed
the moral and religions order of the institution, by depriving many of their innocent enjoyment
of rights and privileges for which they had confided in their faith; that they have broken
down the barriers and violated the Charter, by prostrating the rights with which it expressly
invests the presidential office; that, to subserve their purposes, they have adopted improper
methods in their appointments of executive officers, naturally tending to embarrass and obstruct
the harmonious government and instruction of the seminary; that they have extended their powers,
which the Charter confines to the college, to form connection with an academy[33] in exclusion
of the other academies in the State, cementing an alliance with its overseers, and furnishing
aid from the college treasury for its students; that they have perverted the power, which by
the incorporation they ought to exercise over a branch of Moor's Charity School, and have obstructed
the application of its fund according to the nature of the establishment and the design of
the donors; and that their measures have been oppressive to your memorialist in the discharge
of his office.

      [33] Kimball Union Academy.

"Such are the impressions as now related, arising from the acts and operations of those who
have of late commanded the decisions of the Board.

"Your memorialist does not pretend to exhibit their motives, whether they have been actuated
by erroneous conceptions, or mistaken zeal, or some other cause, in attending to the concerns
of the institution. But with great deference he submits the question, unless men in trust preserve
inviolable faith, whether pledged by words, or action, or usage, to individuals, unless they
continuously keep within the limits assigned to them by law; if they do not sacredly apply
the fruits of benevolence committed to their charge, to the destined purpose; if the public
affairs in their trust are not conducted with openness, impartiality, and candor, instead of
designed and secret management; if they become pointedly hostile to those who discern their
course, and honestly oppose their measures which are esteemed destructive; if they bear down
their inoffensive servants, who are faithful to the cause of truth, how can an establishment
under these circumstances, be profitable to mankind? How can there be a gleam of prospective
joy to any except to those who are converting its interest into their own channel, to serve
a favorite design? What motive, then, will remain to benefactors to lay foundations, or to
bestow their charities on such an object?

"There is also ground for increasing, fearful apprehension, by adding to the immediate, what
may be the ultimate effect of the measures which have been described. In a collective view
they appear to the best acquainted and discerning to be, in all their adaptations, tending
to one end, to complete the destruction of the original principles of the college and school,
and to establish a new modified system, to strengthen the interests of a party or sect, which,
by extending its influence under the fairest professions, will eventually affect the political
independence of the people, and move the springs of their government.

"To you, revered legislators! the writer submits the foregoing important considerations. He
beholds, in your Honorable body, the sovereign of the State, holding, by the Constitution,
and the very nature of sovereignty in all countries, the sacred right, with your duty and responsibility
to God, to visit and oversee the literary establishments, where the manners and feelings of
the young are formed, and grow up in the citizen in after life; to restrain from injustice,
and rectify abuses in their management, and, if necessary, to reduce them to their primitive
principles, or so modify their powers as to make them subservient to the public welfare. To
your protection, and wise arrangements, he submits whatever he holds in official rights by
the Charter of the seminary; and to you his invaluable rights as a subject and citizen.

"He entreats your honorable body to take into consideration the state and concerns of the college
and school, as laid before you.

"And as the Legislature have never before found occasion to provide, by any tribunal, against
the evils of the foregoing nature, and their ultimate dangers, he prays that you would please,
by a committee invested with competent powers, or otherwise, to look into the affairs and management
of the institution, internal and external, already referred to, and, if judged expedient in
your wisdom, that you would make such organic improvements and model reforms in its system
and movements, as, under Divine Providence, will guard against the disorders and their apprehended
consequences.

"He begs only to add the contemplated joys of the friends of man and virtue, in the result
of your great wisdom and goodness, which may secure this seat of science, so that it may become
an increasing source of blessings to the State, and to mankind of the present and succeeding
ages, instead of a theatre for the purpose of a few, terminating in public calamity.

"Whatever disposal your Honorable body may please to make of the subject now presented, the
subscriber will never cease to maintain the most humble deference and dutiful respect.

    John Wheelock."

       *       *       *       *       *

It would not be profitable, at the present time, to re-open the discussion of the subject matter
of the various charges contained in the above document, which were so fully elaborated in the
"Sketches," and so carefully considered in the subsequent "Vindication" by the Trustees.

The prayer of the Memorial was granted by the Legislature, by the appointment of a committee
of investigation. The following letter is worthy of careful attention in this connection:

    "Exeter, August 15, 1815.

"My dear Sir,--In common with many others I have felt considerable anxiety for the issue of
the matter so much in public discussion relative to Dartmouth College. I do not feel either
inclined or competent to give any opinion as to the course which ought finally to be adopted
by the Board of Trustees for the benefit of that institution. I am entirely willing to leave
that to the determination of those much better informed on the subject and better able to judge.
From certain intimations which I have lately had, I am led to believe an intention is entertained
by some members of the Board of ending all difficulty with the president by removing him from
office. I greatly fear such a measure adopted under present circumstances, and at the present
time, would have a very unhappy effect on the public mind. An inquiry is now pending, instituted
after considerable discussion, by the Legislature of this State, apparently for the purpose
of granting relief for the subject matter of complaint. The Trustees acquiesce in this inquiry;
whether they appear before the committee appointed to make it formally as a body, or informally
as individuals, the public will not deem of much importance. The Legislature, I think, for
certain purposes, have a right to inquire into an alleged mismanagement of such an institution,
a visitorial power rests in the State, and I do not deem it important for my present view to
determine in what department or how to be exercised. The Legislature may, on proper occasion,
call it into operation. I have never seen the president's memorial to the Legislature, but
am told it is an abstract from the 'Pamphlet of Sketches.' From the statements in that I take
the burthen of his complaint to be, that the Trustees have not given him a due and proper share
of power and influence in the concerns of the college, and that they have improperly used their
own power and influence in patronizing and propagating in the college particular theological
opinions. The alleged misapplication of funds [paid for preaching] is stated as an instance
of such misconduct. These opinions, it would seem, are particularly disagreeable to the president.
The whole dispute is made to have a bearing on the president personally. Should the Trustees,
during the pendency of the inquiry in a cause in which they are supposed to be a party, take
the judgment into their own hands, and summarily end the dispute by destroying the other party,
they will offend and irritate at least all those who were in favor of making the inquiry. Such
will not be satisfied with the answer that the Trustees have the power and feel it to be their
duty to exercise it. It will be said that the reasons which justify a removal (if there be
any) have existed for a long time. A removal after so long forbearance, at the present time,
will be attributed to recent irritations.

"That part of the president's complaint which relates to his religious grievances, addresses
itself pretty strongly to the prejudices and feelings of all those opposed to the sect called
Orthodox. This comprises all the professed friends of liberal religion, most of the Baptists
and Methodist, and all the nothingarians. The Democrats will be against you, of course. All
these combined would compose in this State a numerous and powerful body. Any measure adopted
by the Trustees with the appearance of anger, or haste, will be eagerly seized on. If the statements
of the president are as incorrect as I have heard it confidently asserted, an exposure of that
incorrectness will put the public opinion right. It may require time, but the result must be
certain. If it can be shown that his complaints are nothing but defamatory clamor, he will
be reduced to that low condition that it will be the interest of no sect or party to attempt
to hold him up. I see no danger in delay, but fear much in too great haste. Perhaps there is
no occasion at present to determine how long the Trustees should delay adopting their final
course. Circumstances may render that expedient at a future time which is not now. I feel much
confidence that a very decisive course against the president by the Trustees at the present
time would create an unpleasant sensation in the public mind, and would, I fear, be attended
with unpleasant consequences.

"I am sensible I have expressed my opinion very strongly on a subject in which I have only
a common interest. I frankly confess I have been somewhat influenced by fears that some of
the Trustees will find it difficult to free themselves entirely from the effects of the severe
irritation they must have lately experienced.

    "I am, dear sir, with esteem,
    "Sincerely yours.
    "Jeremiah Mason."
    "C. Marsh, Esq."

       *       *       *       *       *

President Wheelock was removed from office on the 26th of August, 1815, by the vote of a decided
majority of the Board, upon grounds of which the following is the substance:

"1st. He has had an agency in publishing and circulating a certain anonymous pamphlet, entitled
'Sketches of the History of Dartmouth College and Moor's Charity School,' and espoused the
charges therein contained before a committee of the Legislature. The Trustees consider this
publication a libel on the institution.

"2d. He claims a right to exercise the whole executive authority of the college, which the
Charter has expressly committed to the Trustees, with the president, professors, and tutors
by them appointed. He also claims a right to control the Corporation in the appointment of
executive officers.

"3d. He has caused an impression to be made on the minds of students under censure for transgression
of the laws of the institution, that if he could have had his will they would not have suffered
disgrace or punishment.

"4th. He has taken a youth who was not an Indian, but adopted by an Indian tribe, and supported
him in Moor's School, on the Scotch fund, which is granted for the sole purpose of instructing
and civilizing Indians.

"5th. He has, without sufficient ground for such a course, reported that the real cause of
the dissatisfaction of the Trustees with him was a diversity of religious opinions between
him and them."

In taking leave of the second president, we have only to remark, as we introduce his eulogist,
Mr. Samuel Clesson Allen, that both parties to the contest apparently overrated their grievances.

"President Wheelock was distinguished for the extent and variety of his learning. With a lively
curiosity he pushed his inquiries into every department of knowledge, and made himself conversant
with the various branches of science. But of all the subjects which presented themselves to
his inquisitive mind those which relate to man in his intellectual constitution and social
relations engaged and fixed his attention. His favorite branches were Intellectual Philosophy,
Ethics, and Politics. Possessing in an eminent degree the spirit of his station, he fulfilled
with singular felicity the offices of instructor and governor in the college. Animated and
ardent himself, he could transfuse the same holy ardor into the minds of his pupils. What youth
ever visited him in his study, but returned to his pursuits with a renovated spirit, and a
loftier sentiment of glory?

"He had formed the noblest conceptions of the powers of the human mind, and of its ultimate
progress in knowledge and refinement. This sentiment called forth the energies of his mind,
and gave direction and character to his inquiries. It pervaded all his instructions, and imparted
to science and to letters their just preëminence among the objects of human pursuit.

"He never sought to preoccupy the minds of his pupils with his own peculiar notions, or to
impose upon them any favorite system of opinions. He endeavored to make them proficients in
science, and not the proselytes of a sect.

"In government he commanded more by example than by authority, and the admiration of his talents
ensured a better obedience than the force of laws. His elevation of mind placed him above personal
prejudices and resentments, and jealousies of wounded dignity. He practiced no espionage upon
his pupils, but reposed for the maintenance of order on their sense of propriety, and his own
powers of command. He conciliated their attachment while he inspired their reverence; and he
secured their attention to the stated exercises and reconciled them to the severest studies
by the example he exhibited, and the enthusiasm he inspired. He knew how to adapt his discipline
to the various dispositions and characters, and could discriminate between the accidental impulse
of a youthful emotion and deliberate acts of intentional vice.

"He was an interesting and powerful speaker. His erect attitude and dignified action inspired
reverence, and commanded attention. But the wonderful force of his eloquence arose from the
strength and sublimity of his conceptions. Such were his originality of thought, and rich variety
of expression, that he could present the most common subjects in new and interesting lights.
His public discourses evinced the strength of the reasoning faculty, the powers of the imagination,
and the resources of genius.

"He would sometimes conduct the mind with painful subtility through the multiplied steps of
a long demonstration. At other times he would glance upon the main topics of his argument,
and seize on his conclusion by a sort of intuitive penetration. He frequently embellished his
subject with the higher ornaments of style, and diffused around the severer sciences the graces
and elegancies of taste. For force of expression he might be compared to Chatham, and in splendid
imagery he sometimes rivaled Burke. He would, at pleasure, spread a sudden blaze around his
subject or diffuse about it a milder radiance.

"To the interpretation of the Scriptures he carried all the lights which geography, history,
and criticism could supply, and poured their full effulgence upon the sacred page. His daily
prayers always presenting new views of the works and perfections of the Deity, exhibited whatever
was vast in conception, glowing in expression and devout in feeling.

"He was probably formed not less for the higher offices of active life than for the speculations
of science. Distinguished for the boldness of his enterprise and the decisive energy of his
character, he set no limits to what individual exertion and effort could accomplish. He attempted
great things with means which other men would have esteemed wholly inadequate, and the vigor
of his mind increased in proportion to the difficulties he met in the execution of his enterprises.
He was disheartened by no difficulties, he was intimidated by no dangers, he was shaken by
no sufferings. The glory which he sought was not the temporary applause of this party or that
sect, but it was the glory which results from unwearied efforts for the improvement and happiness
of man. He was not less distinguished by the object and character of his enterprises than by
the great qualities he exhibited in their accomplishment. His was a high and holy ambition,
which, while it preserved its vigor, identified its objects with those of the purest charity."

Dartmouth conferred the degree of LL. D. upon President Wheelock in 1789. He died at Hanover,
April 4, 1817, his wife, Mrs. Maria (Suhm) Wheelock, daughter of Governor Christian Suhm, of
St. Thomas, W. I., surviving him.

Rev. Francis Brown of North Yarmouth, Maine, was elected the successor of President Wheelock.
His character will be the subject of a later chapter. He was inaugurated in September, 1815,
and entered at once with vigor and earnestness upon the performance of his official duties.

The Committee of the New Hampshire Legislature of 1815, Rev. Ephraim P. Bradford, Nathaniel
A. Haven, and Daniel A. White, appointed to investigate the affairs of the college, reported
in substance, that there was no ground for interference by the State.

The deep interest in the college question produced a political revolution in the State. In
his message to the Legislature at the opening of the session in June, 1816, Governor Plumer says:

"Permit me to invite your consideration to the state and condition of Dartmouth College, the
head of our learned institutions. As the State has contributed liberally to the establishment
of its funds, and as our constituents have a deep interest in its prosperity, it has a strong
claim to our attention. The charter of that college was granted December 13th, 1769, by John
Wentworth, who was then Governor of New Hampshire, under the authority of the British king.
As it emanated from royalty, it contained, as was natural it should, principles congenial to
monarchy; among others, it established Trustees, made seven a quorum, and authorized a majority
of those present to remove any of its members which they might consider unfit or incapable,
and the survivors to perpetuate the Board by themselves, electing others to supply vacancies.
In the Charter of Dartmouth College it is expressly provided that the president, trustees,
professors, tutors and other officers, shall take the oath of allegiance to the British king;
but if the laws of the United States, as well as those of New Hampshire, abolished by implication
that part of the Charter, much more might they have done it directly and by express words.
These facts show the authority of the Legislature to interfere upon this subject."

Governor Plumer communicated this message to Jefferson, who replied in his letter of July 21,
1816: "It is replete with sound principles, and truly republican. Some articles, too, are worthy
of notice.

The following action shows the result:

"The undersigned, three of the members of the Board of Trustees of Dartmouth College, having
this morning seen a printed copy of a bill before the Honorable House [of the New Hampshire
Legislature], the provisions of which, should they go into effect would set aside the Charter
of the college, and wholly change the administration of its concerns, beg leave respectfully
to remonstrate against its passage. The provisions of the bill referred to change the name
of the corporation; enlarge the number of Trustees; alter the number to constitute a quorum;
render persons living out of the State, who are now eligible, hereafter ineligible; vacate
the seats of those members who are not inhabitants of the State; deprive the Trustees of the
right of electing members to supply vacancies; and give to the new Board of Trustees an arbitrary
power of annulling everything heretofore transacted by the Trustees; and this last without
the concurrence of the proposed Board of Overseers. The consent of the present Board of Trustees
is in no instance contemplated as necessary to give validity to the new act of incorporation.

"In the opinion of the undersigned, these changes, modifications, and alterations effectually
destroy the present Charter of the college and constitute a new one.

"Should the bill become a law, it will be obvious to our fellow citizens that the Trustees
of Dartmouth College will have been deprived of their Charter rights without having been summoned
or notified of any such proceeding against them. It will be equally obvious to our fellow citizens
that the facts reported by the committee of investigation [of the last Legislature] did not
form the ground and basis of the new act of incorporation; and that no evidence of facts of
any sort, relating to the official conduct of the Trustees, other than the report of the committee
of investigation, was submitted to your Honorable Bodies.

"To deprive a Board of Trustees of their Charter rights, after they have been accused of gross
misconduct in office, without requiring any proof whatever of such misconduct, appears to your
remonstrants unjust, and not conformable to the spirit of the free and happy government under
which we live. If the property has been misapplied, if there has been any abuse of power upon
the part of the Trustees, they are fully sensible of their high responsibility; but they have
always believed, and still believe, that a sound construction of the powers granted to the
Legislature, gives them, in this case, only the right to order, for good cause, a prosecution
in the judicial courts.

"A different course effectually blends judicial and legislative powers, and constitutes the
Legislature a judicial tribunal.

"The undersigned also beg leave to remonstrate against the passage of the bill, on the ground
of inexpediency. A corporation is a creature of the law, to which certain powers, rights, and
privileges are granted; and amongst others that of holding property. Destroy this creature,
this body politic, and all its property immediately reverts to its former owners. This doctrine
has long been recognized and established in all governments of law. Any material alteration
of the corporation, without its consent, and certainly such essential alterations as the bill
under consideration is intended to make, will be followed with the same effect. The funds belonging
to the college, although not great, are highly important to the institution; and a considerable
proportion of them were granted by, and lie in, the State of Vermont. The undersigned most
earnestly entreat the Honorable Legislature not to put the funds of the college in jeopardy;
not to put at hazard substantial income, under expectations which may or may not be realized."

After alluding to lack of precedent for the proposed action, and the necessary increase of
expenditures which would result from its consummation, they proceed to say: "If the provisions
of this bill should take effect, we greatly fear that the concerns of the college will be drawn
into the vortex of political controversy. We refer particularly to that section of the bill
which gives the appointment of Trustees and Overseers to the Governor and Council. The whole
history of the United States for the last twenty years teaches us a lesson which ought not
to be kept out of view. Our literary institutions hitherto have been preserved from the influence
of party. The tendency of this bill, unless we greatly mistake, is to convert the peaceful
retreat of our college into a field for party warfare.

"Whilst the undersigned deem it their indispensable duty to remonstrate in the most respectful
terms against the passage of the bill referred to, they have no objection, and they have no
reason to believe their fellow Trustees have any objection, to the passage of a law connecting
the government of the State with that of the college, and creating every salutary check and
restraint upon the official conduct of the Trustees and their successors that can be reasonably
required, and with respectful deference they would propose the following outlines of a plan
for that purpose.

"The Councillors and Senators of New Hampshire together with the Speaker of the House of Representatives
for the time being, shall constitute a Board of Overseers of Dartmouth College, any ten of
whom shall be a quorum for transacting business. The Overseers shall meet annually at the college,
on the day preceding Commencement. They shall have an independent right to organize their own
body, and to form their own rules; but as soon as they shall have organized themselves they
shall give information thereof to the Trustees. Whenever any vote shall have been passed by
the Trustees it shall be communicated to the Overseers, and shall not have effect until it
shall have the concurrence of the Overseers. Provided, nevertheless, that if at any meeting
a quorum of the Overseers shall not be formed, the Trustees shall have full power to confer
degrees, in the same manner as though there were no Overseers; and also to appoint Trustees
or other officers (not a president or professor), and to enact such laws as the interests of
the institution shall indispensably require; but no law passed by the Trustees shall in such
case have force longer than until the next annual meeting of the Boards, unless it shall then
be approved by the Overseers. Neither of the Boards shall adjourn, except from day to day,
without the consent of the other. It shall be the duty of the president of the college, whenever
in his opinion the interests of the institution shall require it, or whenever requested thereto
by three Trustees, or three Overseers, to call special meetings of both Boards, causing notice
to be given in writing to each Trustee and Overseer, of the time and place; but no meeting
of one Board shall ever be called except at the same time and place with the other. It shall
be the duty of the president of the college annually, in the month of May, to transmit to his
Excellency, the Governor, a full and particular account of the state of the funds, the number
of students and their progress, and generally the state and condition of the college.

"If the plan above suggested should meet the approbation of the Honorable Legislature, and
good men of all parties give it their sanction, we may all anticipate, with high satisfaction,
the future prosperity of the college, and its incalculable usefulness to the State; but if
a union of the friends of literature and science, of all parties and sects, cannot be attained;
if the triumph of one party over the other be absolutely indispensable; fearful apprehensions
must fill the mind of every considerate man, every dispassionate friend of Dartmouth College.

    Thos. W. Thompson,
    Elijah Paine,
    Asa M'Farland.

    "June 19, 1816."

       *       *       *       *       *

The effect of this proposed compromise was a modification of the bill in some of its important
features. Against the amended bill, which was passed a few days afterward, there was a farther
protest, from which we make brief extracts.

"The undersigned would not trouble the Honorable Legislature with any remarks in addition to
those contained in their remonstrance of the 19th inst. did they not believe it was a duty
not to be omitted."

Referring to the amended bill, they continue:

"They have not been able to obtain a sight of it, but have heard it contains provisions for
an increase of the Board of Trustees to the number of twenty-one, a majority of whom to constitute
a quorum, and that the additional number are to be appointed by His Excellency the Governor
and the Honorable the Council. To many of the topics of argument, suggested in their former
remonstrance (which are equally applicable against the passage of the bill in its present shape)
they respectfully ask leave to add, that the bill in its present shape destroys the identity
of the corporation, known in the law by the name of the Trustees of Dartmouth College, without
the consent of the corporation, and consequently the corporation to be created by the present
bill must and will be deemed by courts of law altogether diverse and distinct from the corporation
to which all the grants of property have hitherto been made; and therefore the new corporation
cannot hold the property granted to the corporation created by the charter of 1769.

"By the Charter of Dartmouth College a contract was made by the then supreme power of the State
with the twelve persons therein named, by which, when accepted by the persons therein named,
certain rights and privileges were vested in them and their successors, for the guarantee of
which the faith of government was pledged by necessary implication. In the same instrument
the faith of government was pledged that the corporation should consist of twelve persons and
no more. The change in the government of the State, since taken place, does not in the least
possible degree impair the validity of this contract,--otherwise nearly all the titles to real
estate, held by our fellow citizens, must be deemed invalid.

"The passage of the bill now before the Honorable House will, in the deliberate opinion of
the undersigned, violate the plighted faith of the government. If the undersigned are correct
in considering the Charter of 1769 in the nature of a contract, and if the bill, in its present
shape, becomes a law, we think it necessarily follows that it will also violate an important
clause in the 10th section of the 1st article in the Constitution of the United States, which
provides, that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts.

"The Honorable Legislature will permit us to add, that as it is well known that the Trustees
have, as a Board, been divided on certain important subjects, although the minority has been
very small, should the Legislature now provide for nine new Trustees, to be appointed by His
Excellency the Governor and the Honorable the Council, and that without any facts being proved
to the Legislature, or any Legislative report having been made, showing that the state of things
at the college rendered the measure necessary, it must be seen by our fellow citizens that
the majority of the Trustees have been by the Legislature, for some unacknowledged cause, condemned
unheard.

    Thomas W. Thompson,
    Asa M'Farland.

    "June 24, 1816."

       *       *       *       *       *

The recommendations of the Governor in substance, became a law; the name of the college was
changed to "University;" the number of the Trustees was increased to twenty-one; a Board of
Overseers was created, to be appointed by the Governor and Council; the president and professors
of the university were required to take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States,
and of the State of New Hampshire; and the act provided that "perfect freedom of religious
opinion should be enjoyed by all the students and officers of the university." The committee
to whom the message, etc., relating to this subject, were referred, it should be remarked,
did not undertake to decide in favor of either party to the controversy, but alleged that the
troubles arose from certain defects in the Charter, and that they would recur again in some
form, unless those defects were remedied.

The debates upon the historical and constitutional questions involved were able. The minority
were ably led, both inside and outside the Legislature, but parliamentary tactics availed them
nothing. Many of them joined in a written protest against the passage of the bill, the substance
of which has already appeared in the action of the Trustees.

Directly after the passage of this bill Mr. Marsh prepared an elaborate argument, never published,
setting forth the essence of the leading points of the case, as viewed by the majority of the
old Trustees.

The following letter, addressed to Mr. Timothy Bigelow, Boston, is worthy of notice in this
connection:

    "Concord, July 27, 1816.

"Dear Sir: Dr. McFarland will do himself the pleasure to hand you this. In him you will recognize
an old acquaintance. We wish to get the opinions of as many legal friends as we can upon the
question of legitimate power in the New Hampshire Legislature, to pass the act relating to
Dartmouth College, and with regard to the course the old Trustees ought to pursue. It is an
interest, we think, common to all well wishers to New England.

"The old Trustees, I am confident, are willing to take just that course that their wisest and
best friends recommend.

"Very cordially yours,

    Thomas W. Thompson."

August 28, 1816, a majority of the old Trustees formally refused to accept the provisions of
the act.

A meeting of the Trustees of the university, under the act of June 27, 1816, was called, but
through the illness of a single member, failed for want of a quorum. The judges of the Superior
Court, on December 5, 1816, in answer to the Governor and Council, gave their opinion that
the executive department had no authority to fill the vacancies which had occurred. To remedy
this, the Legislature, on December 18, 1816, passed an additional act providing for filling
the vacancies, the calling of meetings and fixing a quorum; and on December 26, 1816, passed
another act imposing the penalty of five hundred dollars upon any person who should assume
any office in the university except by virtue of the preceding acts.

In view of this action President Brown writes to Mr. Timothy Farrar, of Portsmouth, January
3, 1817:

"Now, what shall we do? One of these four courses must be taken. We must either keep possession
and go on to teach as usual, without any regard to the law, or, withdrawing from the college
edifice and all the college property, continue to instruct as the officers of Dartmouth College;
or, relinquishing this name for the present, collect as many students as will join us, and
instruct them as private but associated individuals; or else we must give all up and disperse.
Will you give us your opinion, what may be duty or what expedient, as soon as convenient? Particularly,
will you give us your opinion whether, supposing this oppressive act to be judged constitutional,
we should be liable to the fine, if we instruct as the officers of Dartmouth College, relinquishing,
however, the college buildings, the library, apparatus, etc."

The Faculty of the college issued the following:

"ADDRESS OF THE EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF DARTMOUTH COLLEGE TO THE PUBLIC.

"As the undersigned, after the most serious and mature consideration, have determined to retain
the offices which they received by the appointment of the Trustees of Dartmouth College, and
not voluntarily to surrender, at present, any property committed to them, nor to relinquish
any privileges pertaining to their offices, they believe it to be a duty, which they owe to
the public no less than to themselves, to make an explicit declaration of the principles by
which they are governed.

"They begin by stating the two following positions, as maxims of political morality, which
they deem incontrovertible:

"1. It is wrong, under any form of government, for a citizen or subject to refuse compliance
with the will of the sovereign power, when that will is fully expressed, except in cases where
the rights of conscience are invaded, or where oppression is practiced to such an extreme degree
that the great ends of civil government are defeated or highly endangered.

"2. Under a free government, where the sovereignty is exercised by several distinct branches,
whose respective powers are created and defined by written constitutions, cases may arise in
which it will be the duty of the citizen to delay conforming to the ordinances of one branch
until the other branches shall have had opportunity to act. If, for example, the legislative
branch should transcend its legitimate power, and assume to perform certain acts which the
Constitution had assigned to the province of the judicial branch, a citizen, injuriously affected
by those acts, might be bound, not indeed forcibly to resist them, but, in the manner pointed
out by law, to make an appeal to the judiciary and to await its decision.

"The undersigned deem it unnecessary, in this place, to detail the provisions of the acts of
the Honorable Legislature, passed in June and December, A. D. 1816, relating to this institution.
Those acts are before the public and are generally understood.

"The Board of Trustees, as constituted by the Charter of 1769, at their annual meeting in August
last, took into consideration the act of June, and adopted a resolution, 'not to accept its
provisions.' In the preamble to this resolution, we find a paragraph in the words following:
'They (the Trustees) find the law fully settled and recognized in almost every case which has
arisen, wherein a corporation or any member or officer is a party, that no man or body of men
is bound to accept, or act under, any grant or gift of corporate powers and privileges; and
that no existing corporation is bound to accept, but may decline or refuse to accept any act
or grant conferring additional powers or privileges, or making any restriction or limitation
of those they already possess; and in case a grant is made to individuals or to a corporation
without application, it is to be regarded not as an act obligatory or binding upon them, but
as an offer or proposition to confer such powers and privileges, or the expression of a desire
to have them accept such restrictions, which they are at liberty to accept or reject.'

"If the doctrine contained in this paragraph be correct, and of its correctness the undersigned,
after ascertaining the opinion of eminent jurists in most of the New England States, entertain
no doubt, the act of June, and of course the acts of December, have become inoperative, in
consequence of the nonacceptance of them by the Charter Trustees, and the provisions of these
acts are not binding upon the corporation or its officers. We take the liberty to add, that,
in our opinion, the reasons assigned by the Trustees in the preamble before mentioned for not
accepting the act of June, are very important and amply sufficient. Indeed, it has ever appeared
to us, that the changes proposed to be introduced into the charter by the acts in question,
would have proved highly inauspicious to the welfare of this institution, and ultimately injurious
to the interests of literature throughout our country.

"The Trustees appointed agreeably to the provisions of the act of June have, however, thought
proper to organize, without the concurrence of the Charter Trustees, and to perform numerous
decisive acts.

"At a meeting in Concord on the fourth instant, they brought several specifications of charges
against the undersigned; and at an adjourned meeting, holden on the twenty-second instant,
they proceeded to displace, discharge, and remove them from their respective offices in Dartmouth
University. A similar procedure was adopted against four of the Trustees acting under the Charter.

"Unless we greatly mistake, in the view already expressed of the act of June, the votes of
the university Trustees, removing us from office, are wholly unauthorized and destitute of
any legal effect; and we are still, as we have uniformly claimed to be, officers of Dartmouth
College under the charter of 1769.

"The Charter Trustees having resolved to assert their corporate rights, and having, for this
purpose, recently commenced a suit against their late Secretary and Treasurer, in the issue
of which it is expected the question between them and their competitors will be finally settled,
the undersigned, being united with them in opinion, in principle, and in feeling, cannot consent
to abandon them, or to perform any act which may prejudice their claims, while this suit is
pending. They must therefore proceed, as officers of Dartmouth College, to discharge their
prescribed duties. They are sensible of their obligation to render submission to the laws,
and their first inquiry, in the case before them, has been, What is law? The result is a full
conviction in their own minds, that the course they have concluded to adopt is strictly legal,
and that no other course would be consistent with their duty. If they err, their error will
shortly be corrected by the decision of our highest judicial tribunals; and with this decision
they will readily comply. In the meantime, while the appeal is made to the laws of their country,
and to the constitutions of this State and of the United States, which are the supreme law,
they trust that none of their fellow-citizens will have the unkindness to charge them with
a want of respect to the government under which they live. As soon as the will of the government
shall be fairly expressed, they will render to it a prompt obedience.

"The undersigned are placed in a situation singularly difficult and highly responsible. To
them it seems to be allotted in Divine Providence, to perform a part which, in its consequences,
may deeply affect the interests not only of this institution, but of all similar institutions
in this country. And although they are fully conscious of their own inability to perform this
part in a manner worthy of its importance, yet they are firmly resolved, relying on divine
assistance, not to shrink from any duty, or any danger, which it may involve.

"The penal act of December they cannot but regard as unnecessarily severe; nor do they see
what purpose it was calculated to answer, except to influence them, by the prospect of embarrassing
suits, to an abandonment of their trust. They are aware that men may be found disposed to multiply
prosecutions against them, and to despoil them of the little property they possess; but they
believe themselves called in Providence not to shun this hazard, as they cannot reconcile it
with their obligation to the institution under their care, to relinquish the places they occupy,
until it shall be ascertained that they cannot rightfully retain them.

"As the university Trustees have expressed a great regard for the laws, the undersigned have
a right to expect that neither they, or any agents appointed by them, will resort to illegal
measures to seize on the college buildings and property. Should such measures unhappily be
adopted, the undersigned will make no forcible resistance, it not being a part of their policy
to repel violence by violence. They will quietly withdraw where they cannot peaceably retain
possession, and, with the best accommodations they can procure, will continue to instruct the
classes committed to them, until the prevalence of other counsels shall procure a repeal of
the injurious acts, or until the decision of the law shall convince them of their error, or
restore them to their rights.

    "Francis Brown,
    "Ebenezer Adams,
    "Roswell Shurtleff.

    "February 28, 1817."

       *       *       *       *       *

The above gentlemen constituted the permanent Faculty at this period. In view of all the circumstances
they determined to surrender the college buildings and library to their opponents, and the
Trustees determined to test their rights before the courts, the action being brought against
the former Treasurer, who adhered to the "University" party.

"The action: 'The Trustees of Dartmouth College v. William H. Woodward,' was commenced in the
Court of Common Pleas, Grafton County, State of New Hampshire, February Term, 1817. The declaration
was trover for the books of record, original charter, common seal, and other corporate property
of the college. The conversion was alleged to have been made on the 7th day of October, 1816.
The proper pleas were filed, and by consent the cause was carried directly to the Superior
Court of New Hampshire, by appeal, and entered at the May Term, 1817. The general issue was
pleaded by the defendant, and joined by the plaintiffs. The facts in the case were then agreed
upon by the parties, and drawn up in the form of a special verdict, reciting the Charter of
the college and the acts of the Legislature of the State, passed June and December, 1816, by
which the said corporation of Dartmouth College was enlarged and improved, and the said Charter
amended.

"The question made in the case was, whether those acts of the Legislature were valid and binding
upon the corporation, without their acceptance or assent, and not repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States. If so, the verdict found for the defendants; otherwise it found for the
plaintiffs.

"The cause was continued to the September Term of the court in Rockingham County, where it
was argued; and at the November term of the same year, in Grafton County, the opinion of the
court was delivered by Chief Justice Richardson, sustaining the validity and constitutionality
of the acts of the Legislature; and judgment was accordingly entered for the defendant on the
special verdict.

"Thereupon a writ of error was sued out by the original plaintiffs, to remove the cause to
the Supreme Court of the United States, where it was entered at the term of the court holden
at Washington on the first Monday of February, 1818.

"The cause came on for argument on the 10th day of March 1818, before all the judges. It was
argued by Mr. Webster and Mr. Hopkinson, for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Holmes and
the Attorney-general (Wirt), for the defendant in error.

"At the term of the court holden in February, 1819, the opinion of the judges was delivered
by Chief Justice Marshall, declaring the acts of the Legislature unconstitutional and invalid,
and reversing the judgment of the State court. The court, with the exception of Mr. Justice
Duvall, were unanimous."

The arguments in the New Hampshire court by Messrs. Mason, Smith, and Webster for the college,
and Messrs. Sullivan and Bartlett for Mr. Woodward; the decision of that court, and the cause
in the Supreme Court of the United States, are an important part of our country's judicial
history. The result was logically based upon prior decisions of the Supreme Court. We invite
special attention to one point in Mr. Webster's argument.

Thus closed one of the most important contests in the history of American jurisprudence.

Law, politics, literature, and religion combined to make it a subject of national concern.
The decision gave to a large class of chartered institutions a security never enjoyed before.
The lapse of more than half a century enables us to consider the question calmly and candidly,
uninfluenced by interest, prejudice, or passion.

The case was attended with serious embarrassments. Neither counsel nor court had thorough knowledge
of the history of the school and the college, and the relations of each to the other. Had they
possessed this knowledge, the line of argument in some respects would have been very different,
although perhaps with the same general results. More than this, there were no precedents. Indeed,
at that early day questions of constitutional law had occupied very little of the attention
of the American courts.

There would have been embarrassment had the British Parliament, before our Revolution, assumed
the right to alter materially the Charter of the college. Changes in chartered institutions
in America, especially, by that body, although within the scope of its power, were usually
met with the sternest protests. After the Revolution, there were wide differences of opinion
as to who had power over charters granted antecedent to that event. In the case of Dartmouth's
Charter any one of several opinions might have found plausible support. To determine whether
it was a fit matter for State or national legislation, or judicial control, we must revert
to the history of the Charter. There we find that it was the unvarying purpose of the founder,
adhered to through a long period of severe and persistent effort, to obtain a Charter which
would enable him to locate his school or schools in any of the American colonies. He was determined
to be as free as possible from local obligations and local control. There can be no doubt that
in securing the Charter of the college he believed that he had accomplished a similar purpose.
The Charter appointed as a majority of the first Board of Trustees residents in Connecticut,--making
it for the time being, by design of the founder, for good and sufficient reasons, in a sense,
a Connecticut institution,--with a provision that after the lapse of a brief period a majority
of the Board should be residents in New Hampshire. In writing upon this subject to a business
correspondent, in June, 1777, President Wheelock says, referring to a third party: "Let him
see how amply this incorporation is endowed, and how independent it is made of this government
or any other incorporation," and adds that "a matter of controversy" relating to the township
granted by the king to the college nearly at the same time with the Charter, "can be decided
by no judicatory but supreme, or one equal to that which incorporated it, i. e., the Continental
Congress."

The views of no one person will be received by all, as conclusive on a subject of so much importance.
But certainly, Eleazar Wheelock had a right to construe the provisions of an instrument which
in almost every line bore his impress, never possessed by any other individual.

Had John Wheelock presented his grievances to the National Legislature,--only in a limited
sense, it is true, if at all, the successor of that king, whose grant of Landaff, in addition
to the College Charter, made him, in a sense, according to Coke, the founder of the college,--he
might, in all probability, have obtained what he desired in a peaceful manner, although an
important judicial decision might never have occupied its present place in American law.

In Sprague's "Annals of the American Pulpit," we find, in substance, the following notice of
President Brown:

Francis Brown was the son of Benjamin and Prudence (Kelley) Brown, and was born at Chester,
Rockingham County, N. H., January 11, 1784. His father was a merchant, and had a highly respectable
standing in society. His mother was a person of superior intellect and heart, and, though she
died when he had only reached his tenth year, she had impressed upon him some of the most striking
of her own characteristics; particularly her uncommon love of order and propriety, even in
the most minute concerns, and her uncompromising adherence to her own convictions of truth
and right. In his early boyhood he evinced the utmost eagerness in the pursuit of knowledge,
and never suffered any opportunity for intellectual improvement to escape him. At the age of
fourteen, he ventured to ask his father to furnish him with the means of a collegiate education;
but, in consideration of his somewhat straitened circumstances, he felt constrained to deny
the request. By a subsequent marriage, however, his circumstances were improved; and the new
mother of young Brown, with most commendable generosity, assumed the pecuniary responsibility
of his going to college. He always cherished the most grateful recollection of her kindness;
and, but a few days before his death, he said to her with the deepest filial sensibility, "My
dear mother, whatever good I have done in the world, and whatever honor I have received, I
owe it all to you."

In his sixteenth year he became a member of Atkinson Academy, then under the care of the Hon.
John Vose, and among the most respectable institutions of the kind in New England. His instructor
has rendered the following testimony concerning him at that period: "Though he made no pretensions
to piety during his residence at the academy, he was exceedingly amiable in his affections
and moral in his deportment. It is very rare we find an individual in whom so many excellencies
centre. To a sweet disposition was united a strong mind; to an accuracy which examined the
minutiæ of everything a depth of investigation which penetrated the most profound. I recollect
that when I wrote recommending him to college, I informed Dr. Wheelock I had sent him an Addison."

Of the formation of his religious character little more is known than that it was of silent,
yet steady growth. It was not till the year that he became a tutor in college that he made
a public profession of his faith, by connecting himself with the church in his native place.

In the spring of 1802 he joined the Freshman class of Dartmouth College, and, during the whole
period of his collegiate course, was a model of persevering diligence, of gentle and winning
manners, and pure and elevated morality. From college he carried with him the respect and love
of both teachers and students. Having spent the year succeeding his graduation as a private
tutor in the family of the venerable Judge Paine, of Williamstown, Vt., he was appointed to
a tutorship in the college at which he had graduated. This office he accepted, and for three
years discharged its duties with great ability and fidelity, while, at the same time, he was
pursuing theological studies with reference to his future profession.

Having received license to preach from the Grafton Association, he resigned his tutorship at
the Commencement in 1809, with a view to give himself solely to the work of the ministry. After
declining several flattering applications for his services, he accepted an invitation from
the Congregational Church in North Yarmouth, Me., to become their pastor; and he was accordingly
ordained there on his birthday, January 11, 1810. Within a few months from this time, he was
chosen Professor of Languages at Dartmouth College; but this appointment he was pleased, greatly
to the joy of his parishioners, to decline. For the succeeding five years he labored with great
zeal and success among his people, while his influence was sensibly felt in sustaining and
advancing the interests of learning and religion throughout the State. He was the intimate
friend of the lamented President Appleton; and no one, perhaps, coöperated with the president
more vigrously than he, in increasing the resources and extending the influence of Bowdoin College.

He was inaugurated President of Dartmouth College, on the 27th of September, 1815.

During the period when the college controversy was at its height, and it seemed difficult to
predict its issue, Mr. Brown was invited to the presidency of Hamilton College,--a respectable
and flourishing institution in the State of New York. He did not, however, feel at liberty
to accept the invitation, considering himself so identified with the college with which he
was then connected that he must share either its sinking or rising fortunes.

President Brown's labors were too severe for his constitution. He was not only almost constantly
engaged during the week in the instruction and general supervision of the college, but most
of his Sabbaths were spent in preaching to destitute congregations in the neighborhood; and,
during his vacations, he was generally traveling with a view to increase the college funds.
Soon after the Commencement in 1818, he began to show some symptoms of pulmonary disease, and
these symptoms continued, and assumed a more aggravated form, under the best medical prescriptions.
His last effort in the pulpit was at Thetford, Vt., October 6, 1818. In the hope of recovering
from his disease, he traveled into the western part of New York, but no substantial relief
was obtained. In the fall of 1819, with a view to try the effect of a milder climate, he journeyed
as far south as South Carolina and Georgia, where he spent the following winter and spring.
He returned in the month of June, and, though he was greeted by his friends and pupils with
the most affectionate welcome, they all saw, from his pallid countenance and emaciated form,
that he had only come home to die. As he was unable to appear in public, he invited the Senior
class, who were about to leave college at the commencement of their last vacation, to visit
him in his chamber; and there he addressed to them, with the solemnity of a spirit just ready
to take its flight, the most pertinent and affectionate farewell counsels, which they received
with every expression of gratitude, veneration, and love. In his last days and hours he evinced
the most humble, trusting, child-like spirit, willing to live as long as God was pleased to
detain him, but evidently considering it far better to depart and be with Christ. His last
words were, "Glorious Redeemer, take my spirit." He died July 27, 1820.

His wife Elisabeth, daughter of the Rev. Tristram Gilman, a lady whose fine intellectual, moral,
and Christian qualities adorned every station in which she was placed, survived him many years,
and died on the 5th of September, 1851. They had three children, one of whom, Samuel Gilman
[now President Brown], is a professor in Dartmouth College.

The degree of Doctor of Divinity was conferred upon President Brown by both Hamilton and Williams
Colleges, in 1819.

The following is a list of President Brown's published works: "An Address on Music," delivered
before the Handel Society of Dartmouth College, 1809. "The Faithful Steward:" A Sermon delivered
at the ordination of Allen Greeley, 1810. "A Sermon delivered before the Maine Missionary Society,
1814." "Calvin and Calvinism;" defended against certain injurious representations contained
in a pamphlet entitled "A Sketch of the Life and Doctrine of the Celebrated John Calvin;" of
which Rev. Martin Ruter claims to be the author, 1815. "A Reply to the Rev. Martin Ruter's
Letter relating to Calvin and Calvinism, 1815." "A Sermon delivered at Concord before the Convention
of Congregational and Presbyterian Ministers of New Hampshire, 1818."

The following is from Prof. Charles B. Haddock, D.D.: "My acquaintance with the President was,
for the most part, that of a pupil with his teacher; an undergraduate with the head of the
college. And yet it was somewhat more than this; for it was my happiness, during my Senior
year, to have lodgings in the same house with him, and to eat at the same table, in the family
of one of the professors, and as one of a small circle, all connected with college, and a good
deal remarkable for the freedom and vivacity of their conversation. After graduating, I saw
him only occasionally, until the last few months of his life, which he passed here, near the
close of my first year's residence at the college as a teacher,--months in which the greatness
of his character was still more signally manifest than in any other circumstances in which
I had seen him.

"In recording my youthful impressions of so uncommon a personage, I may, therefore, hope to
be thought to speak not altogether without knowledge, though it should be with enthusiasm.

"Dr. Brown came to preside over the college at the age of less than thirty-two, and in circumstances
to attract unusual attention to his administration. It was during a violent contest of opposing
parties for the control of its affairs, and immediately after the removal of his predecessor
from office. His qualifications and his official acts were, of course, exposed to severe scrutiny,
and could command the respect of the community at large only by approving themselves to the
candid judgment even of the adverse party. And I suppose it would be admitted, even in New
Hampshire, that no man ever commended himself to general favor, I may say to general admiration,
by a wiser, more prudent, or more honorable bearing, amid the greatest and most trying difficulties.
Indeed, such was his conduct of affairs, and such the nobleness of his whole character, as
displayed in his intercourse with the government of the State, with a rival institution under
the public authority, and with all classes of men, that not a few who began with zeal for the
college over which he presided, came at last to act even more from zeal for the MAN who presided
over it.

"The mind of Dr. Brown was of the very highest order,--profound, comprehensive, and discriminating.
Its action was deliberate, circumspect, and sure. He made no mistakes; he left nothing in doubt
where certainty was possible; he never conjectured where there were means of knowledge; he
had no obscure glimpses among his ideas of truth and duty. Always sound and always luminous,
his opinions were never uttered without being understood, and never understood without being
regarded. There was a dignity and weight in his judgments which seem to me not unlike what
constitutes the patriarchal authority of Washington and Marshall.

"If not already a man of learning, in the larger sense of that term, it was only because the
duties of the pastoral relation had so long attracted his attention to the objects of more
particular interest in his profession. Had his life been spared, however, he would have been
learned in the highest and rarest sense. His habits of study were liberal, patient, and eminently
philosophical; and within the sphere which his inquiries covered, his knowledge was accurate
and choice, and his taste faultless. The entire form of his literary character was beautiful--strong
without being dogmatic; delicate without being fastidious.

"His heart was large. Great objects alone could fill it; and it was full of great objects.
There was no littleness of thought, or purpose, or ambition, in him--nothing little. The range
of his literary sympathies was as wide as the world of mind; his benevolence as universal as
the wants of man.

"His person was commanding. Gentle in his manners, affable, courteous, he yet, unconsciously,
partly by the natural dignity of his figure, and still more by the greatness visibly impressed
on his features, exacted from us all a deference, a veneration even, that seemed as natural
as it was inevitable. His very presence was a restraint upon everything like levity or frivolity,
and diffused a thoughtful and composed, if not always grave, air about him, which, never ceasing
to be cheerful and bright, never failed to dignify the objects of pursuit and elevate the intercourse
of life. A gentleman in the primitive sense of the word, he was, without seeking to be thought
so, always felt to be of a superior order of men.

"On the whole, it has been my fortune to know no man whose entire character has appeared to
me so near perfection, none, whom it would so satisfy me in all things to resemble.

"How much we lost in him it is now impossible to estimate, and it would, perhaps, be useless
to know. His early death extinguished great hopes. But his memory is a treasure, which even
death cannot take from us."

Hon. Rufus Choate writes thus: "It happened that my whole time at college coincided with the
period of President Brown's administration. He was inducted into office in the autumn of 1815,
my Freshman year, and he died in the summer of 1820. It is not the want, therefore, but the
throng, of recollections of him that creates any difficulty in complying with your request.
He was still young at the time of his inauguration--not more than thirty-one--and he had passed
those few years, after having been for three of them a tutor in Dartmouth College, in the care
of a parish in North Yarmouth, in Maine; but he had already, in an extraordinary degree, dignity
of person and sentiment; rare beauty,--almost youthful beauty, of countenance; a sweet, deep,
commanding tone of voice; a grave but graceful and attractive demeanor--all the traits and
all the qualities, completely ripe, which make up and express weight of character; and all
the address and firmness and knowledge of youth, men, and affairs which constitute what we
call administrative talent. For that form of talent, and for the greatness which belongs to
character, he was doubtless remarkable. He must have been distinguished for this among the
eminent. From his first appearance before the students on the day of his inauguration, when
he delivered a brief and grave address in Latin, prepared we were told, the evening before,
until they followed the bier, mourning, to his untimely grave, he governed them perfectly and
always, through their love and veneration; the love and veneration of the 'willing soul.' Other
arts of government were, indeed, just then, scarcely practicable. The college was in a crisis
which relaxed discipline, and would have placed a weak instructor, or an instructor unbeloved,
or loved with no more than ordinary regard, in the power of classes which would have abused
it. It was a crisis which demanded a great man for President, and it found such an one in him.
In 1816, the Legislature of New Hampshire passed the acts which changed the Charter of the
institution, abolished the old corporation of Trustees, created a new one, extinguished the
legal identity of the college, and reconstructed it or set up another under a different and
more ambitious name and a different government. The old Trustees, with President Brown at their
head, denied the validity of these acts, and resisted their administration. A dominant political
party had passed or adopted them; and thereupon a controversy arose between the college and
a majority of the State; conducted in part in the courts of law of New Hampshire, and of the
Union; in part by the press; sometimes by the students of the old institution and the new in
personal collision, or the menace of personal collision, within the very gardens of the academy;
which was not terminated until the Supreme Court of the United States adjudged the acts unconstitutional
and void. This decision was pronounced in 1819; and then, and not till then, had President
Brown peace,--a brief peace made happy by letters, by religion, by the consciousness of a great
duty performed for law, for literature, and for the Constitution,--happy even in prospect of
premature death. This contest tried him and the college with extreme and various severity.
To induce students to remain in a school disturbed and menaced; to engage and inform public
sentiment, the true patron and effective founder, by showing forth that the principles of a
sound political morality, as well as of law, prescribed the action of the old Trustees; to
confer with the counsel of the college, two of whom--Mr. Mason and Mr. Webster--have often
declared to me their admiration of the intellectual force and practical good sense which he
brought to those conferences,--this all, while it withdrew him somewhat from the proper studies
and proper cares of his office, created a necessity for the display of the very rarest qualities
of temper, discretion, tact, and command, and he met it with consummate ability and fortune.
One of his addresses to the students in the chapel at the darkest moment of the struggle, presenting
the condition and prospects of the college, and the embarrassments of all kinds which surrounded
its instructors, and appealing to the manliness and affection and good principles of the students
to help 'by whatsoever things were honest, lovely, or of good report,' occurs to recollection
as of extraordinary persuasiveness and influence.

"There can be no doubt that he had very eminent intellectual ability, true love of the beautiful
in all things, and a taste trained to discover, enjoy, and judge it, and that his acquirements
were competent and increasing. It was the 'keenness' of his mind of which Mr. Mason always
spoke to me as remarkable in any man of any profession. He met him only in consultation as
a client; but others, students, all nearer his age, and admitted to his fuller intimacy, must
have been struck rather with the sobriety and soundness of his thoughts, the solidity and large
grasp of his understanding, and the harmonized culture of all its parts. He wrote a pure and
clear English style, and he judged of elegant literature with a catholic and appreciative but
chastised taste. The recollections of a student of the learning of a beloved and venerated
president of a college, whom he sees only as a boy sees a man, and his testimony concerning
it, will have little value; but I know that he was esteemed an excellent Greek and Latin scholar,
and our recitations of Horace, which the poverty of the college and the small number of its
teachers induced him to superintend, though we were Sophomores only, were the most agreeable
and instructive exercises of the whole college classical course.

"Of studies more professional he seemed master. Locke, Stewart, with whose liberality and tolerance
and hopeful and rational philanthropy he sympathized warmly, Butler, Edwards, and the writers
on natural law and moral philosophy, he expounded with the ease and freedom of one habitually
trained and wholly equal to these larger meditations.

"His term of office was short and troubled; but the historian of the college will record of
his administration a two-fold honor; first, that it was marked by a noble vindication of its
chartered rights; and second, that it was marked also by a real advancement of its learning;
by collections of ampler libraries, and by displays of a riper scholarship."

It was not an easy matter, especially in the impoverished condition of the college, to find
a worthy successor of President Brown.

During the period of President Brown's illness, and at different periods after his death, Professor
Ebenezer Adams, a gentleman of decided and energetic character, and (in years) the senior professor
in the college, was acting president.

Rev. Daniel Dana of Newburyport, Massachusetts, was elected the fourth president of the college
in August, 1820.

The substance of the next few pages is from the "Life of President Dana," published in 1866.

The following is one of many letters addressed to him, urging his acceptance of the presidency:

    "Dartmouth College, Sept. 7, 1820.

"Rev. and dear Sir:--Not having heard from any of our friends what is the prospect in regard
to your acceptance of the appointment made by our Trustees, I cannot help troubling you with
a line.

"I need not tell you that our solicitude would rise to extreme distress were we seriously apprehensive
that you might decide in the negative. Oh, sir, remember the desolations of Zion here, and
have compassion. The friends of the college look to you, and to you only, to repair the waste
places. When you know that the voice of the Trustees conspires with that of the clergy and
of the public at large, and when this same voice is echoed from the tomb of our late beloved
and much lamented President Brown, can you hesitate? That good man, in his last days, with
almost the confidence and ardor of prophecy, declared his belief in the future prosperity and
usefulness of Dartmouth College. You have, I hope, been informed of the strong manner in which
he, last autumn, expressed himself in relation to a successor; and of the same decided and
unwavering opinion which came from his mouth a few days before his death. 'I have,' said he,
'but one candidate, and that is Dr. Dana. Whom do they talk of for a successor? My opinion
is exactly the same as when I conversed with you last fall.'

"I do pray, my dear sir, that Divine Providence may not permit you to fail of coming.

"I should be grieved if, on making the trial, you should not find yourself pleasantly situated
here. I verily believe that you would find a disposition on the part of the people of the village,
including all the college Faculty, to render your situation comfortable and pleasant.

"We shall watch every mail and ask every friend, till we learn the decision, or rather what
we may expect the decision to be.

    With great respect,
    "Your obedient servant,

    "R. D. M."[34]

      [34] Professor R. D. Mussey.

       *       *       *       *       *

What is here stated as to President Brown, was also true of President Appleton of Bowdoin College.
Each had desired that Dr. Dana should be his successor. No stronger proof could be given of
the confidence felt in him, than these concurrent last wishes of two such men. Each had brought
to the office he held not merely intellectual preëminence, but a dignity and elevation of character,
and a singleness of purpose, rarely equaled; and to each the future welfare of the institution
over which he presided was an object of the deepest solicitude.

Dr. Dana's letter of acceptance is as follows:

       *       *       *       *       *

    "To the Rev. and Honorable Board of Trustees of Dartmouth College,

"Gentlemen:--I have received, with deep sensibility, not unmingled with surprise, the notice
of the appointment with which you have honored me, to the presidency of the institution under
your care.

"The consideration of a subject of such magnitude has been attended with no small degree of
perplexity and distress.

"The character and objects of Dartmouth College; its intimate connection with the great interests
of the Church and of human society; the important services it has long rendered to both; its
recent arduous struggle for existence, with the attending embarrassments, and auspicious issue;
the claims it possesses on the community, and especially on its own sons; the unanimity of
your suffrages in the present case; these with other affecting circumstances have been carefully
considered, and I trust duly appreciated.

"Considerations of a different kind have likewise presented. My long and intimate connection
with a most beloved and affectionate people--a connection rendered interesting not only by
its duties and delights but by its very solicitudes and afflictions--a diffidence of my powers
to meet the expectations of the Trustees, and the demands of the college; the exchange, at
my age, of a sphere whose duties, though arduous and exhausting, are yet familiar, for another
in which new duties, new responsibilities, new anxieties arise; in which likewise success is
uncertain, and failure would be distressing--these considerations, with a variety of others
scarcely possible to be detailed have at times come over me with an almost appalling influence.

"In these circumstances I have not dared trust my feelings, nor even my judgment, with the
decision of the case.

"One resource remained,--to seek advice through the regular ecclesiastical channel--and this
with a full determination to consider the judgment of the presbytery as the most intelligible
expression which I could hope to obtain of the mind and will of Heaven, respecting my duty;
to this measure my church and people gave their consent.

"The presbytery having determined, by nearly a unanimous vote, in favor of the dissolution
of my pastoral relation, and my acceptance of the appointment, my duty is of course decided.
I now, therefore, declare my compliance with your invitation.

"I devote the residue of my life to the interests of the institution committed to your care.

"This I do with deep solicitude, yet not without an animating hope that He whose prerogative
and glory it is to operate important effects by feeble instruments, may be pleased, even through
me, to give a blessing to a seminary which has so signally enjoyed His protecting and fostering
care.

"Providence permitting, I shall be at Hanover on the fourth Wednesday of the present month,
with a view to attend the solemnities of inauguration. It will then be necessary, considering
the advanced season, and other circumstances, for me to return without delay, that I may arrange
my affairs and remove my family.

"Gentlemen, my resolution on this great subject has been taken in the full confidence of experiencing,
in all future time, what I shall so much need, your liberal candor, and your cordial, energetic
support. Suffer me, in addition, to request, in my behalf, your devout supplications to Him
who is the Father of Lights and the munificent bestower of every blessing.

"I am, gentlemen, with every sentiment of esteem and respect,

    "Your devoted friend and servant,
    "Daniel Dana.

    "Newburyport, Oct. 3, 1820."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Allusion is made in his farewell sermon at Newburyport, to his 'recently impaired health.'
This was premonitory. Scarcely had he removed his family to Hanover, and entered on his new
duties, before the crisis came to which, doubtless, the wasting cares and anxieties of preceding
years and the recent severe pressure upon his sensibilities, had been silently but inevitably
tending. His health gave way, and great depression of spirits accompanied his bodily languor.
He took more than one long journey in the vain effort to recruit his energies. He writes to
a friend of being 'in a state of great and very uncommon debility, undoubtedly to be attributed
to the protracted operation of distressing causes, both on mind and frame.' He also states,
that, whilst absent from Hanover in accordance with the advice of his physician, he still hoped
to be able, after his strength was recruited, to accomplish something in the matter of soliciting
aid to the funds of the college; a work which, however uncongenial to his tastes, he found
would necessarily be devolved on its president.

"The winter months passed by, and there was still little or no improvement in his health. When
it became known that he was agitating the question of resigning his office, many urgent requests
were made to him not to decide hastily. He delayed only till April, and then called a meeting
of the Trustees, to be held early in May, for the purpose of receiving and acting upon his
resignation of his office. He wished it to be considered as 'absolute and final.' The notification
to a member of the Board with whom he was specially intimate, was accompanied by a letter in
which he says:

"'You will naturally conclude that the resolution which I have taken has cost me many a struggle,
and much severe distress. This is the fact. The last seven months have been with me a scene
of suffering indeed. I have fondly hoped that repeated journeyings would give me relief. But
their effect has been only partial and temporary. Such is my prostration at this moment, that
the duties of my office, and not less its cares and its responsibilities, seem a burden quite
beyond my power of bearing. Had it pleased God to make me an instrument of important good to
the college, I should have esteemed myself privileged indeed; but this privilege, though denied
to me, awaits, I confidently hope, some more favored instrument of the Divine benevolence.
I earnestly pray, that, in what pertains to this great concern, the Trustees may be favored
with much heavenly wisdom and direction.'

"He now took a long journey to Ohio, visiting at Athens the brother who had been the companion
of his early years. Under these favorable influences, his health began more decidedly to improve.
At their meeting, July 4, the Trustees of the college, by unanimous resolution, requested him
to withdraw his resignation; but he declined to do so, though 'gratefully acknowledging the
kindness expressed in their communication.'

"Many years after these events, the Rev. Dr. Lord, so long and so honorably the president of
Dartmouth College, thus referred to Dr. Dana's connection with the institution:

"'He was chosen president for his well-known excellence as a scholar and theologian, and his
extraordinary ministerial qualifications. He was honored the country over, in these respects.
It was not doubted that he would be equally honorable as president of the college, should his
health endure.

"'That he would have been, had he been able to retain his place, everybody well understood,
as well from his auspicious beginning, as his distinguished qualities. He made a deep impression
upon the college during the short period of his actual service.

"'But his sensitive nature had received a great shock in the breaking up of his many and most
endearing relations at Newburyport and the country around. He began here with health seriously
impaired, and in great depression of spirit. The change of scene, of society, labor, and responsibility,
was too much for his disordered frame. He sought relief by travel. But he gained little or
nothing, and was driven to the conclusion that his life could probably be saved only by resignation.
He could not consent to make such an office as he held a sinecure, or to see the college labor
through its severe adversities without greater vigor of administration than his infirmities
admitted. With great conscientiousness and magnanimity, he chose to put himself at a seeming
disadvantage, rather than to risk the interests of the college upon what he judged to be the
doubtful chances of his recovery.

"'He left with the profound respect and sincere regret of the Trustees and Faculty. Their confidence
in him was unshaken; and they never doubted, that, had he been more favorable to himself, and
borne his new burdens with less solicitude, till he could regain his health, he would have
been as distinguished here as elsewhere, and raised the college to a corresponding usefulness
and dignity.

"'Most men judge superficially and unwisely in such cases. So far as I know, the most competent
judges of Dr. Dana's relations to Dartmouth see nothing that does not redound to his honor.
It is understood that he accepted the presidency with great reluctance, on account of his other
responsibilities and attachments, and with distrust of his physical ability to perform its
duties; that, while he performed them, it was with characteristic ability and effect; and that,
when his best efforts to regain his health failed, and he saw reason to fear, that, even if
his life should not be a sacrifice, his increasing infirmities would be to the disadvantage
of a struggling institution, he generously, and entirely of his own accord, resigned. To my
apprehension, all this is significant of great moral strength under the pressure of bodily
disease, and a memorable instance of that Christian heroism for which he has always been remarkable.
"Maluit esse quam videri bonus."'"

The subsequent labors of President Dana in the ministry, and the high esteem of all who best
knew him till his death, August 26, 1859, are matters of permanent record. His first wife,
Mrs. Elizabeth (Coombs) Dana, and the second, Mrs. Sarah (Emery) Dana, had died previous to
his residence at Hanover.

President Dana's brief but earnest labors for the college having closed in 1821, the fifth
president was Rev. Bennet Tyler, who was called from a pastorate in Southbury, Conn.

We quote in substance some passages relating to this subject from his "Memoir," by his son-in-law,
Rev. Nahum Gale, D.D.

"Early in 1822, Mr. Tyler was appointed president of Dartmouth College. It was to him a mystery
why he should be selected for that station. Located in a retired country parish, he had been
devoted to the duties of the ministry, and had paid little attention to science or literature.
He was strongly attached to his people and his home, for there had arisen, as 'olive plants,'
around his table, three sons and four daughters.

"But he was recommended to the Trustees of Dartmouth by Dr. Porter, of Andover, and others,
in whose judgment he had great confidence; his brethren around him in the ministry, and the
consociation with which he was connected, believed it to be his duty to accept the appointment.
Accordingly, he broke away from an endeared people, was inaugurated at Dartmouth in March,
and entered upon the duties of his office the following June. In the autumn of 1822, the newly-elected
president was honored by the degree of D.D., from Middlebury College. Of his connection with
Dartmouth College, Dr. Tyler has left the following record:

"'I was among strangers, and engaged in duties to which I was unaccustomed. But I found myself
surrounded by able professors, who treated me with great kindness, and rendered me all the
assistance in their power. My situation was much more pleasant than I anticipated; and through
the assistance of a gracious Providence, I was enabled to discharge the duties which devolved
upon me with acceptance. I have never had any reason to doubt that I was in the path of duty
when I accepted the appointment. My labor in the service of the college, I humbly trust, was
not altogether in vain. I had the satisfaction to know that I left it in a more prosperous
condition than I found it. It was no part of my duty, as president of the college, to preach
on the Sabbath; but the health of the professor of Divinity failing soon after my inauguration,
I found it necessary to supply his place; and during the whole period of my presidency I preached
a considerable part of the time. In the year 1826, there was a very interesting revival of
religion, both among the students and the inhabitants of the village, which will be remembered
by not a few, while "immortality endures."

"'I was connected with the college six years; and, although I never felt so much at home as
in the duties of the ministry, still I had no serious thoughts of relinquishing my station,
till, very unexpectedly, I received a call from the Second Church in Portland. When I received
this call, I felt a new desire for the duties and joys of the pastoral life, and believing
I could resign my office without putting in jeopardy the interests of the college, I concluded
to do so. I parted with the Trustees, Faculty, and students, with feelings of great cordiality,
and I had reason to believe that the feelings were reciprocated.'

"The following letter from the venerable Professor Shurtleff, addressed to Rev. John E. Tyler,
will give the impressions of one associated with Dr. Tyler during his presidency at Hanover.

    "Hanover, N. H., September 22, 1858.

"Reverend and very dear Friend: Permit me thus to address you; for I can truly say that I regarded
you with much interest and affection during the whole time of your residence here, and I may
also add that your venerated parents had no friends in Hanover more sincere and ardent than
Mrs. Shurtleff and myself.

"When your dear father was appointed president of Dartmouth College, he had been little heard
of in New Hampshire. His first appearance, however, was very prepossessing, and his preaching
was much admired. His popularity was so general in this region, that a gentleman of a neighboring
town inquired, 'Why, if he is such a man as they say, was he not heard of before?' To which
I replied, if you will allow me to quote my own words, that 'the Lord had kept him concealed
in an obscure parish for a blessing to our college.' The impression which his first appearance
made was not lowered by further acquaintance. I do not recollect hearing a complaint of him
from any member of the college. All his intercourse with them was tempered with the utmost
kindness, while he was punctual and faithful in every official duty. I think he originated
the project of raising, by subscription, a fund of ten thousand dollars for the aid of indigent
students seeking an education for the ministry.

"This object he not only conceived, but completed by his own personal efforts. For this, as
well as for other services, he should be gratefully remembered by the college, by the church,
and by the public.

"But the religious influence of Dr. Tyler, while president of Dartmouth, will never be forgotten.
In the summer of 1825, the professor of Divinity was arrested by a severe and protracted affection
of the lungs. The president at once took the services of the sanctuary; and the following spring
term was rendered memorable by a revival of religion, which issued in adding to the Lord many
students and inhabitants of the village.

"During his residence here we had a class of students in their professional studies, who wished
to enter the ministry earlier than they could by entering a public seminary. We met with them
once in a week, heard their dissertations on subjects that had been assigned, and each of us
spoke on the performances, and on the subjects. The young gentlemen were all licensed to preach
after about two years, and became useful ministers of the gospel. By these exercises, as well
as by long intimacy, I was convinced that Dr. Tyler had peculiarly clear and discriminating
views of the doctrines of the gospel, and an uncommon facility in explaining and defending
them; and I have often remarked in years past, that with the exception of my friend, Dr. Woods,
of Andover, I would sooner recommend him to young men as a teacher of Theology than any other
clergyman in the circle of my acquaintance.

"With many pleasing reminiscences, I remain your friend and brother in the gospel,

    Roswell Shurtleff."

Dr. Asa D. Smith writes thus:

    "New York, December 14, 1858.
    "Rev. J. E. Tyler,--

"My dear Sir: You ask for my recollections of your honored father, as president of my Alma
Mater. I regret that I can furnish but little in that relation. He remained at the head of
the institution some two years only after I was matriculated.

"The two lower classes had, of course, much less intercourse with him than those more advanced.
You could doubtless obtain more ample information from those who were Seniors under him, and
who had more largely the benefit of his instruction. Such impressions as I have, however, I
am happy to give.

"It was when a member of Kimball Union Academy, in preparation for college, if I mistake not,
that I first set eyes on his commanding form, and listened to the impressive tones of his voice.
That academy, as you know, is about a dozen miles from Hanover. Not long before the graduation
of one of its classes, he visited the place, and preached on the Sabbath. It is not impossible
that his visit had some reference to the fact that there were among us so many candidates for
college life. It was, at all events, well for Dartmouth that he came. Judging from the influence
on my mind, I cannot doubt that not a few were the more inclined, for what they saw of him,
to connect themselves with the institution over which he presided.

"It was the year before I entered college, I think, that is, in 1825-26, that Dartmouth was
blessed with one of the most remarkable revivals of religion it has ever enjoyed. Transformations
of character were wrought then which have borne the test of decades of years. Some of the finest
minds in college were brought under the power of the gospel--minds that have since shone as
bright lights in the world.

"When I entered the college, I found him dignified, yet affable and fatherly in his bearing.
His preaching then, as we often heard him in the village church, was marked by the same simplicity,
clearness, and logical force, the same scripturalness, fullness of doctrine, and evangelical
earnestness, that characterized his subsequent ministrations. He preached not to the fancy,
but to the conscience and the heart. He confined not himself to hortatory appeals, nor did
he, in any wise, skim over the surface of things; but, as both my notes and recollections of
his college sermons assure me, he was apt to handle, and that vigorously, the high topics of
theology. He gave us not milk alone, but strong meat. Yet have I seldom known a man so remarkable
for making an abstruse subject plain to every hearer."

       *       *       *       *       *

Rev. George Punchard, of Boston, and Rev. Nathaniel Folsom, D.D., professor in Meadville College,
Pa., have furnished their recollections respecting the revival in Dartmouth College, in the
year 1826, to which allusion is made by Dr. Smith.

The former says:

    "Boston, February 16, 1859.

    "Rev. John E. Tyler,--

"My dear Sir: Your venerable father was president of Dartmouth College during my whole collegiate
course--from 1822 to 1826. My earliest recollections of him are those only which a thoughtless
boy of sixteen would be likely to have of a grave and reverend divine, and are of little value.

"It was not until near the close of my college life that I began really to know him. At that
time the college was visited by a revival of religion of uncommon power, and my reverend president
suddenly awoke (at least to my view) in an entirely new character.

"He came to the students with a power and unction which were quite irresistible, and manifested
a depth of religious feeling for us which made us at once love him and admire him. He seemed
to have found his appropriate sphere of labor; to have got into an atmosphere which filled
his soul and body with life and energy; to have work to do which was congenial, which he loved,
and which he knew how to do as few men did. He was at once a son of thunder and a son of consolation.
His discourses, which had always been able and instructive, and characterized by simplicity
of arrangement and neatness and purity of style, had now the additional attraction of an animated
and energetic delivery.

"And yet, perhaps, the conference room and the prayer-meeting were the places in which, at
that time, Dr. Tyler specially excelled. He was naturally rather heavy and lethargic in his
manner of speaking, and it required a good deal to excite and warm him thoroughly. But the
scenes and duties incident to a powerful revival of religion, in which a hundred or more young
men were more or less interested, supplied the necessary stimulus, and the strong man was fully
waked up, and in his extemporaneous addresses particularly, poured out streams of Christian
eloquence which he seldom equaled in his more carefully prepared public discourses, and which
few men whom I have ever heard, could excel or equal.

"His labors, however, were not confined to the pulpit and the conference meeting. He cheerfully
and heartily did the work of a pastor among the students, going from room to room, instructing
and exhorting his beloved pupils, and praying with them. He was among us, not as the grave
and dignified head of the college, but rather as a loving, anxious father, seeking to instruct
and save his children; or, as an elder brother, tenderly solicitous for our spiritual welfare.
He was gentle among us, even as a nurse cherisheth her children. And God, I verily believe,
gave him spiritual children from among our number, as the reward of his fidelity; children
who never ceased to love him while he lived, and who will cherish his memory with gratitude
to their dying hours."

Professor Folsom says:

"Dartmouth College was fortunate in getting Mr. Tyler to stand in the line of its excellent
presidents. Each of them was different from the rest in special qualifications, in work performed,
in kind and force of influence exerted; but each did what made his administration an important
period in the history of the college, and extended its fame and usefulness. Dr. Tyler was inferior
to none of them in the depth and extent to which he affected the character of the students
for good, and through them, wherever the Divine Providence called them to live and labor, promoted
the welfare of the country; the enlightenment and moral activity, and power, and happiness
of the people.

"His splendid physique, in which he surpassed everybody in the region; his noble stature and
well-proportioned form; his head finely poised, and around it a halo of parental benignity,
its perpetual and unfading crown; these struck every one at first sight, and prepossessed all
in his favor. I know of none with whom to compare him in these respects except Ezekiel Webster.
In his whole spirit and mien, in look and word and action, he was a father, and his whole administration
was parental in the best sense of the word. This benignity, as we learn from his 'Memoir,'
marked his subsequent career as president of the East Windsor Theological School. His biographer,
taking notice of the fact that 'the perversities of human nature make their appearance in such
institutions as well as elsewhere,' observes that 'the strong affections of the father in him
occasionally swayed the firmness of the tutor and governor, and rendered him indulgent and
yielding in cases where there was call for the peremptory and authoritative.' In the first
two years of our college life, from the fall of 1824 to the spring of 1826, two or three instances
of wrongdoing passed unnoticed which perhaps deserved such a mode of treatment. There were,
moreover, it is to be confessed, irregularities and bad practices among students in all the
classes at that period, but they were exceptional, so far as my knowledge of them extended,
and would have required a system of espionage to detect them, or informers from the guilty
ones themselves. Dartmouth however, at its worst, in that period, was not one whit behind any
other college in New England, in its general tone of morals, in observance of law, in habits
of study and in scholarly attainments. There were not a few whose sense of honor was very high,
and as they were popular and influential, they in some degree necessarily gave tone to others.
Nay, surrounded by such an atmosphere of benignity--of which every student was more or less
conscious, feeling it not only in the presence of the president, but also more or less in our
connection with every other officer of the college without exception--I think there was far
less tendency to excess, far less of the irritation of inclination against prohibition of law;
and assuredly there was never apparent a disposition to rebel from hope of impunity through
the recognized forbearance of our teachers.

"In the spring of the year 1828, a higher influence was brought to bear, reinforcing and extending
the moral element throughout the college; recovering not a few from irregularities of conduct
and waste of talent; awakening the religious nature; giving birth to new motives, and leading
many to noble and useful lives. From that period until our class graduated in 1828, I cannot
recall an act deserving special even animadversion, nor remember an instance of a student obnoxious
to discipline for indolent of other censurable habits. But I remember several young men of
exemplary deportment and distinguished ability, among them Salmon P. Chase, who though not
publicly regarded as 'subjects of the work,' were greatly affected, their future being largely
determined by it. They all subsequently exhibited deep moral and religious purpose, and were
foremost in philanthropic action. Without the preaching of Dr. Tyler as its great instrument,
and without such a man presiding over it, and guiding it, there is no reason to suppose that
the revival would have taken place, or would have been so extensive and powerful.

"It is by looking at Dr. Tyler from every point of view that we alone can form a just estimate
of his qualities. His greatest power was that of preacher, and he was most at home in this
office. He did not seek it, but it providentially came to him in the illness of Professor Shurtleff,
the professor of Theology, and he retired from it when in the year 1827, Professor George Howe
succeeded Professor Shurtleff. He had risen in it to the very height of the duty he attempted
to discharge, and was majestic in it. His mode of delivery and gesture were beyond criticism,
and at times sublime. I never heard a student speak of him in this capacity without the highest
praise; and his power ended not simply in producing admiration, but in influencing his hearers
to duty. The great object aimed at in his preaching was to induce his hearers to be willing,
unconditionally, to do and submit to the revealed Divine will. He who succeeds in persuading
his fellow-men to faithfully and perseveringly try to do this, does the highest Christian work,
and most for the benefit of man. No one who has sat in the presidential chair of Dartmouth,
or of any other college, during an equal length of time, has done more in this direction than
Bennet Tyler."

The librarian says:

