IT was Queen Mary who threw open the gardens of the  Grey Friars: a new and semi-rural cemetery
in those days,  although it has grown an antiquity in its turn and been  superseded by half-a-dozen
others.  The Friars must have  had a pleasant time on summer evenings; for their gardens  were
situated to a wish, with the tall castle and the  tallest of the castle crags in front.  Even
now, it is  one of our famous Edinburgh points of view; and strangers  are led thither to see,
by yet another instance, how  strangely the city lies upon her hills.  The enclosure is  of
an irregular shape; the double church of Old and New  Greyfriars stands on the level at the
top; a few thorns  are dotted here and there, and the ground falls by  terrace and steep slope
towards the north.  The open  shows many slabs and table tombstones; and all round the  margin,
the place is girt by an array of aristocratic  mausoleums appallingly adorned.

Setting aside the tombs of Roubiliac, which belong  to the heroic order of graveyard art, we
Scotch stand, to  my fancy, highest among nations in the matter of grimly  illustrating death.
We seem to love for their own sake  the emblems of time and the great change; and even around
country churches you will find a wonderful exhibition of  skulls, and crossbones, and noseless
angels, and trumpets  pealing for the Judgment Day.  Every mason was a  pedestrian Holbein:
he had a deep consciousness of death,  and loved to put its terrors pithily before the  churchyard
loiterer; he was brimful of rough hints upon  mortality, and any dead farmer was seized upon
to be a  text.  The classical examples of this art are in  Greyfriars.  In their time, these
were doubtless costly  monuments, and reckoned of a very elegant proportion by  contemporaries;
and now, when the elegance is not so  apparent, the significance remains.  You may perhaps
look  with a smile on the profusion of Latin mottoes - some  crawling endwise up the shaft
of a pillar, some issuing  on a scroll from angels' trumpets - on the emblematic  horrors,
the figures rising headless from the grave, and  all the traditional ingenuities in which it
pleased our  fathers to set forth their sorrow for the dead and their  sense of earthly mutability.
But it is not a hearty sort  of mirth.  Each ornament may have been executed by the  merriest
apprentice, whistling as he plied the mallet;  but the original meaning of each, and the combined
effect  of so many of them in this quiet enclosure, is serious to  the point of melancholy.

Round a great part of the circuit, houses of a low  class present their backs to the churchyard.
Only a few  inches separate the living from the dead.  Here, a window  is partly blocked up
by the pediment of a tomb; there,  where the street falls far below the level of the graves,
a chimney has been trained up the back of a monument, and  a red pot looks vulgarly over from
behind.  A damp smell  of the graveyard finds its way into houses where workmen  sit at meat.
Domestic life on a small scale goes forward  visibly at the windows.  The very solitude and
stillness  of the enclosure, which lies apart from the town's  traffic, serves to accentuate
the contrast.  As you walk  upon the graves, you see children scattering crumbs to  feed the
sparrows; you hear people singing or washing  dishes, or the sound of tears and castigation;
the linen  on a clothes-pole flaps against funereal sculpture; or  perhaps the cat slips over
the lintel and descends on a  memorial urn.  And as there is nothing else astir, these  incongruous
sights and noises take hold on the attention  and exaggerate the sadness of the place.

Greyfriars is continually overrun by cats.  I have  seen one afternoon, as many as thirteen
of them seated on  the grass beside old Milne, the Master Builder, all sleek  and fat, and
complacently blinking, as if they had fed  upon strange meats.  Old Milne was chaunting with
the  saints, as we may hope, and cared little for the company  about his grave; but I confess
the spectacle had an ugly  side for me; and I was glad to step forward and raise my  eyes to
where the Castle and the roofs of the Old Town,  and the spire of the Assembly Hall, stood
deployed  against the sky with the colourless precision of  engraving.  An open outlook is
to be desired from a  churchyard, and a sight of the sky and some of the  world's beauty relieves
a mind from morbid thoughts.

I shall never forget one visit.  It was a grey,  dropping day; the grass was strung with rain-drops;
and  the people in the houses kept hanging out their shirts  and petticoats and angrily taking
them in again, as the  weather turned from wet to fair and back again.  A grave- digger, and
a friend of his, a gardener from the country,  accompanied me into one after another of the
cells and  little courtyards in which it gratified the wealthy of  old days to enclose their
old bones from neighbourhood.   In one, under a sort of shrine, we found a forlorn human  effigy,
very realistically executed down to the detail of  his ribbed stockings, and holding in his
hand a ticket  with the date of his demise.  He looked most pitiful and  ridiculous, shut up
by himself in his aristocratic  precinct, like a bad old boy or an inferior forgotten  deity
under a new dispensation; the burdocks grew  familiarly about his feet, the rain dripped all
round  him; and the world maintained the most entire  indifference as to who he was or whither
he had gone.  In  another, a vaulted tomb, handsome externally but horrible  inside with damp
and cobwebs, there were three mounds of  black earth and an uncovered thigh bone.  This was
the  place of interment, it appeared, of a family with whom  the gardener had been long in
service.  He was among old  acquaintances.  'This'll be Miss Marg'et's,' said he,  giving the
bone a friendly kick.  'The auld - !'  I have  always an uncomfortable feeling in a graveyard,
at sight  of so many tombs to perpetuate memories best forgotten;  but I never had the impression
so strongly as that day.   People had been at some expense in both these cases: to  provoke
a melancholy feeling of derision in the one, and  an insulting epithet in the other.  The proper
inscription for the most part of mankind, I began to  think, is the cynical jeer, CRAS TIBI.
That, if  anything, will stop the mouth of a carper; since it both  admits the worst and carries
the war triumphantly into  the enemy's camp.

