The girl or woman who is personally disorderly and untidy in her room and dress puts a great
strain upon the patience and affection of all those associated with her who are possessed of
refined and cultivated tastes. In fact, I believe there is nothing so disenchanting, so contrary
to ideal young womanhood as a lack of neatness and tidiness in person and dress. This wonderful
physical organism with which we have been endowed depends for its perfection and health and
attractiveness upon the care we give it. The teeth, the hair, the complexion, are all dependent
for their beauty--and it is quite right that we should strive to make them beautiful--upon
constant attention to those conditions which insure their health and perfection. And the most
important of these conditions is cleanliness. At the present time, no young girl can hope for
recognition or welcome in refined and cultivated society, upon whose teeth tartar and other
discoloring deposits are allowed to accumulate; whose breath is not pure and sweet; whose hair
is muggy and untidily kept; whose finger nails are neglected and dark at the edges. These things
may seem trifles, but they are not, for they are the outward expression of an inward grace;
all these marks really reveal character. An untidy girl may be talented and good-tempered,
but she lacks one of the most essential qualities for gaining and retaining respect and affection.

The room of any young girl is a great revealer of character in respect to real refinement and
purity of taste, especially if one comes upon it somewhat unawares. Not very long since, I
was called by unexpected circumstances to spend a day or two at the house of a friend, where,
owing to the severe illness of two members of the family, the spare rooms were not available
and I was without delay or warning shown to the private room of a young lady member of the
family. It was a low attic room with a deep dormer window, and, seen unfurnished, might be
regarded as unattractive in size and shape. But the impression it made as I entered and surveyed
it was of refinement, beauty, repose, and purity. The furniture was plain, but the bed was
made up so beautifully, and looked so inviting in its snowy covering that I did not notice
whether the bedstead was fine or plain. The carpet and papering of the room were of light neutral
tints, and the broad sloping walls which made the sides of the dormer window were ornamented,
the one with a long branch of dogwood blossoms, the other with graceful groupings of poppies
and swamp grass, painted thereon by the occupant of the room herself. A wicker rocking-chair
had a cushion of bright-colored satine firmly tied in, and matching the ribbons which were
drawn through the bordering interstices of the chair. A small table, another chair, a footstool,
and two or three simple pictures on the walls, along with wash-stand and bureau, completed
the furnishing of a room that instantly attracted and delighted the beholder. But the impression
above all others that the room gave was of perfect purity and sweetness and health; and this
was due to the beautiful tidiness and cleanliness everywhere apparent. Wash-stand and bureau
were in perfect order, with their white mats, clean towels, and every accessory of a refined
lady's toilet. The wide deep closet was filled with the appurtenances of a young lady's wardrobe,
but was strikingly neat and attractive. Shoes and slippers were laid neatly in a certain place
on the shelves; articles of clothing that are usually difficult to dispose of in an orderly
manner, all had an appropriate place, and so neatly and tidily was everything arranged that
one felt sure the purity and order extended to the most secret recesses of every place in the
room. There was no danger in any direction of coming upon anything that was not in keeping
with the room of a refined and delicate young girl. The drawers of bureau and wash-stand, as
I happened to have opportunity to observe them, were as sweet and clean and orderly as the
rest of the room. I felt better acquainted with the character of that young girl after two
days occupation of her beautifully kept and appointed room than a year of ordinary acquaintance
would have given me.

And while I am on the subject of an orderly and daintily kept room, let me tell you that the
modern bane of order and neatness in a house is too many trivial and useless things, intended
perhaps for ornament, but confusing to the eye, offensive to good taste, and more effective
for catching dust than for anything else. The multiplication of cheap picture-cards, wall-pockets,
brackets, and all sorts of little useless knicknacks, has helped on this confusion, till one
is almost tempted to regard them as nuisances. A few of these ornamental trifles, arranged
with an eye to a certain unity of design, may do very well; but, as William Morris, the great
apostle of true decorative art in England, has said, "Better pure empty space than unworthy
and confusing ornament." You may have heard it related of the great naturalist, Thoreau, that
he made a collection of stones during his rambles, and placed them on his writing-table; but
when he found he had to dust them every day, he threw them away.

This same general principle applies to dress. Too many little trivial ornaments will destroy
the character and dignity of any costume. Better one or two ornaments of good quality, or better
none at all, than half a dozen of poor quality. And in regard to a young girl's wardrobe, the
same fundamental rule prevails: if every article of apparel is not daintily clean, it is unbecoming
and unworthy a refined personality. Soiled laces and soiled ribbons are to be shunned; but
better untidiness and soil of the outward apparel than of that which we know by the general
name of underwear, which is far more personal and important than the outward costume. The more
refined the character and taste of any young girl, the more particular will she be in the matter
of all articles of apparel that are private to herself, that they shall at least be daintily
neat and clean. I need not say to you how disenchanting it is to see a young lady's foot with
a shoe half buttoned because half the buttons are gone; or to see a slipper slip off and disclose
neglected and untidy hose. No young girl of proper self-respect or refinement will ever tolerate
any such blemishes in her wardrobe.

Next in importance to habits of order and personal neatness comes the habit of promptness.
The girl who loiters and dawdles and keeps people waiting, who is behindhand with her work
as well as in keeping her appointments, who is never ready at meal-time, but who is always
ready with some excuse for such annoying conduct, is a household nuisance, a really painful
trial to all who are brought into intimate relations with her. How often have I wished it were
possible to arouse the consciousness of daughters in comfortable homes to the pain and inconvenience
they give their parents and friends by a habitual lack of promptness! For my own part, I remember
how my conscience was first aroused, in my youth, on this point. I was reading a book written
for young girls by Jane Taylor--a writer I wish were in print now--when I came across this
instruction: "When you hear the bell ring for meals, rise immediately, leave whatever you are
doing, and at once go to the table." Just as I was reading this sentence the bell rang, and
I immediately obeyed the summons. I noticed that my mother needed my help in seating the younger
children at the table and attending to their wants, and I gave her my assistance. Somehow the
meal seemed to pass off more pleasantly than usual, and I felt my conscience prick me that
I had so often given my mother trouble by loitering and delaying at meal-time. I resolved that
henceforth I would be promptly on hand to help her. From that time there was a marked change
for the better in the ease with which our family meals were served, and all because I was always
promptly on hand to help my mother. I do not know that she or any of the family knew or noticed
the reason, but I was very well aware of it. It was really a kind of turning-point in my habits
of life and usefulness at home. To this day I never hear a bell ring for meals, without the
injunction of Jane Taylor coming into my mind: "Rise immediately, leave whatever you are doing,
and go at once to the table." I can assure you, my child, it would add greatly to the comfort
and happiness of many houses, and greatly relieve many an overtaxed mother, if this good old-fashioned
direction were heeded not only by daughters but by other members of the family also.

And if now, in addition to these good habits, you cultivate the habit of cheerfulness and earnestly
guard against temptation to fretfulness, moroseness, or impatience, you will be well started
on the way towards a useful and lovely womanhood. A good daughter in a home is a well-spring
of joy, an ever-fresh source of delight and consolation to her parents. Especially is she the
stay and support and strength of her mother, the happiness of whose life depends so largely
upon the respectful and affectionate conduct and attentions of her children.

LETTER V.

SOCIETY--CONVERSATION.

My Dear Daughter:--To give and receive pleasure in those pleasant assemblages and meetings
of acquaintances and friends known by the general name of society, is one of the worthy minor
aims of life. It is one of the marks of an advancing state of intelligence and culture, when
an assemblage of gentlemen and ladies can pass delightful hours in the mere interchange of
thought in conversation. And while games and other amusements may serve for a temporary variety
(always excepting games known as "kissing-games," which should be promptly tabooed and denounced,
and ever will be in truly refined society), yet animated and intelligent conversation must
always hold the first place in the list of the pleasures of any refined society circle.

How shall a young girl fit herself to enjoy and to afford enjoyment in general society? Certainly
the first requisites are intelligence, a good knowledge of standard literature, a general knowledge
of the more important events that are taking place in the world, and such a knowledge of the
best current literature as may be obtained from the regular reading of one or two of the standard
monthly magazines.

And here it may help you if I particularize a little in regard to a knowledge of important
events of the day and also of general and current literature. Of course the main source of
knowledge of the more important events that are going on in the world is the daily or weekly
newspaper; and yet there is scarcely any reading so utterly demoralizing to good mental habits
as the ordinary daily paper. More than three-fourths of the matter printed in the "great city
dailies" is not only of no use to anyone, but it is a positive damage to habits of mental application
to read it. It is a waste of time even to undertake to sift the important from the unimportant.
The most that any earnest person should attempt to do with a daily paper is to glance over
the headlines which give the gist of the news, and then to read such editorial comments as
enable the reader to understand the more important events and affairs that are transpiring
in the world so that reference to them in conversation would be intelligent and intelligible.
But if one should never see a daily paper, yet should every week carefully read a digest of
news prepared for a good weekly paper, one would be thoroughly furnished with all necessary
knowledge of contemporaneous events, and the time thus saved from daily papers could be profitably
employed in other reading.

The field of literature is now so vast that no one can hope to be well acquainted with more
than a small portion of it. Yet every well-informed young person should know the general character
of the principal writers since the time of Shakespere, even though one should never read their
works. You may remember how, in the recently finished novel of "The Rise of Silas Lapham,"
the novelist, with a few sentences, shows how ridiculous a really beautiful and amiable girl
with a high-school education may make herself in conversation by her lack of knowledge of standard
literature. She was telling a young gentleman where the book-shelves were to be in the splendid
new house being built by her father, and suggesting that the shelves would look nice if the
books had nice bindings.

"'Of course, I presume,' said Irene, thoughtfully, 'we shall have to have Gibbon.'

"'If you want to read him,' said Corey, with a laugh of sympathy for an imaginable joke.

"'We had a good deal about him in school. I believe we had one of his books. Mine's lost, but
Pen will remember.'

"The young man looked at her, and then said seriously, 'You'll want Green, of course, and Motley,
and Parkman.'

"'Yes. What kind of writers are they?'

"'They're historians, too.'

"'Oh, yes; I remember now. That's what Gibbon was. Is it Gibbon or Gibbons?'

"The young man decided the point with apparently superfluous delicacy. 'Gibbon, I think.'

"'There used to be so many of them,' said Irene, gaily. 'I used to get them mixed up with each
other, and I couldn't tell them from the poets. Should you want to have poetry?'

"'Yes. I suppose some edition of the English poets.'

"'We don't any of us like poetry. Do you like it?'

"'I'm afraid I don't, very much,' Corey owned. 'But of course there was a time when Tennyson
was a great deal more to me than he is now.'

"'We had something about him at school, too. I think I remember the name. I think we ought
to have all the American poets.'

"'Well, not all. Five or six of the best; you want Longfellow, and Bryant, and Whittier, and
Emerson, and Lowell.'

"'And Shakespere,' she added. 'Don't you like Shakespere's plays?... We had ever so much about
Shakespere. Weren't you perfectly astonished when you found out how many other plays there
were of his? I always thought there was nothing but "Hamlet," and "Romeo and Juliet," and "Macbeth,"
and "Richard III.," and "King Lear," and that one that Robson and Crane have--oh, yes, "Comedy
of Errors!"'"

So you see how ridiculous this young girl, by the betrayal of such ignorance, made herself
in conversation with a cultured young gentleman whose good opinion she was most anxious to
win. And yet, to talk too much about books is not well; it often marks the pedantic and egotistic
character. It is safe to say that unless one happens to meet a very congenial mind among conversers
in general society, to introduce the subject of books is liable to be misconstrued. It is not
very long since another popular modern novelist held up to scorn and ridicule the young woman
whose particular ambition seemed to be to let society know what an immense number of books
she had been reading. Nevertheless, one must have a good groundwork of knowledge of books in
order to avoid mistakes such as poor Irene made in talking with young Corey.

Directions and suggestions for aiding young people to become agreeable and pleasant conversers
must necessarily be mainly negative. Taken for granted that a young person possesses animation
good sense, intelligence, and a genuine interest in her companions and the world around her;
is observing, and can speak grammatically without hesitating; knows the difference between
"you and I" and "you and me" (which I am sorry to say a great many young girls of my acquaintance
do not, for I constantly hear them saying, "He brought you and I a bouquet," or, "You and me
are invited to tea this evening"), she can almost certainly be a pleasant and entertaining
converser if she avoids certain things, as, for instance:

1. She must avoid talking about herself, her exploits, her acquirements, her entertainments,
her beaux, etc. Especially should she avoid seeking to make an impression by frequent mention
of advantageous friends or circumstances. The greatest observer and commentator upon manners
that ever wrote was Mr. Emerson. In one of his essays he says: "You shall not enumerate your
brilliant acquaintances, nor tell me by their titles what books you have read. I am to infer
that you keep good company by your good manners and better information; and to infer your reading
from the wealth, and accuracy of your conversation."

2. She must avoid a loud tone of voice, and also avoid laughing too much and too easily. To
laugh aloud is a dangerous thing, unless all noise and harshness have been cultivated out of
the voice, as ought to be done in every good school. The culture of the voice is one of the
most important elements in making a pleasant converser. American girls and women are accused
by cultivated foreigners of having loud, harsh, strident voices; and there is too much truth
in the accusation. Nor is there any excuse for unpleasant, harsh, rough, nasal tones of voice
in these days when in every good school instruction is given in the management of the voice
for reading and conversation. The cause of harshness and loudness is often mere carelessness
on the part of young people. But talking in too loud a tone is scarcely less unpleasant to
the listeners than the use of too low a tone, which is generally an affectation.

3. She must avoid frequent attempts at wit; avoid punning, which is the cheapest possible form
of wit; and avoid sarcasm. The talent for being sarcastic is a most dangerous one. 'No one
ever knew a sarcastic woman who could keep friends. The temptation to be bright and interesting
and to attract attention by the use of sarcasm is very strong, for nearly all will be interested
in it and enjoy it for a little. But were I obliged to choose between sarcasm and dullness
in a young girl, I should prefer dullness. Happily, this is not a necessary alternative.

4. She must avoid a kind of joking and badinage that should never be heard among well-bred
young people in society--that about courtship and marriage. Much harm, much blunting of fine
sensibilities, much destruction of that delicate modesty which is the priceless dower of young
girlhood, comes of such jesting and joking where it is permitted without restraint or reproof.
A young girl may not be called upon to reprove it, but she certainly can shun the company of
those who are given to such vulgarity (for no other term will rightly describe it), and she
can certainly refrain from joining in any conversation of this description.

