CHAPTER XXXIII

Two very different persons died towards the latter part of this year. The first was Lamoignon,
Chief President; the second, Ninon, known by the name of Mademoiselle de l'Enclos.  Of Lamoignon
I will relate a single anecdote, curious and instructive, which will show the corruption of
which he was capable.  The courtiers soon learnt that his name vitas Fargues, that the place
was called Courson, and that he had lived there in retirement several years. After having supped,
Fargues showed each of them into a separate bedroom, where they were waited upon by his valets
with every proper attention. In the morning, as soon as the courtiers had dressed themselves,
they found an excellent breakfast awaiting them; and upon leaving the table they saw their
horses ready for them, and as thoroughly attended to as they had been themselves.  Charmed
with the politeness and with the manners of Fargues, and touched by his hospitable reception
of them, they made him many offers of service, and made their way back to Saint Germain.  Their
non-appearance on the previous night had been the common talk, their return and the adventure
they had met with was no less so.

These gentlemen were then the very flower of the Court, and all of them very intimate with
the King.  They related to him, therefore, their story, the manner of their reception, and
highly praised the master of the house and his good cheer.  The King asked his name, and, as
soon as he heard it, exclaimed, "What, Fargues!  is he so near here, then?" The courtiers redoubled
their praises, and the King said no more; but soon after, went to the Queen-mother, and told
her what had happened.

Fargues, indeed, was no stranger, either to her or to the King.  He had taken a prominent part
in the movements of Paris against the Court and Cardinal Mazarin.  If he had not been hanged,
it was because he was well supported by his party, who had him included in the amnesty granted
to those who had been engaged in these troubles.  Fearing, however, that the hatred of his
enemies might place his life in danger if he remained in Paris, he retired from the capital
to this country-house which has just been mentioned, where he continued to live in strict privacy,
even when the death of Cardinal Mazarin seemed to render such seclusion no longer necessary.

The King and the Queen-mother, who had pardoned Fargues in spite of themselves, were much annoyed
at finding that he was living in opulence and tranquillity so near the Court; thought him extremely
bold to do so; and determined to punish him for this and for his former insolence.  They directed
Lamoignon, therefore, to find out something in the past life of Fargues for which punishment
might be awarded; and Lamoignon, eager to please, and make a profit out of his eagerness, was
not long in satisfying them.  He made researches, and found means to implicate Fargues in a
murder that had been committed in Paris at the height of the troubles.  Officers were accordingly
sent to Courson, and its owner was arrested.

Fargues was much astonished when he learnt of what he was accused.  He exculpated himself,
nevertheless, completely; alleging, moreover, that as the murder of which he was accused had
been committed during the troubles, the amnesty in which he was included effaced all memory
of the deed, according to law and usage, which had never been contested until this occasion.
The courtiers who had been so well treated by the unhappy man, did everything they could with
the judges and the King to obtain the release of the accused.  It was all in vain.  Fargues
was decapitated at once, and all his wealth was given by way of recompense to the Chief- President
Lamoignon, who had no scruple thus to enrich himself with the blood of the innocent.

The other person who died at the same time was, as I have said, Ninon, the famous courtesan,
known, since age had compelled her to quit that trade, as Mademoiselle de l'Enclos.  She was
a new example of the triumph of vice carried on cleverly and repaired by some virtue.  The
stir that she made, and still more the disorder that she caused among the highest and most
brilliant youth, overcame the extreme indulgence that, not without cause, the Queen-mother
entertained for persons whose conduct was gallant, and more than gallant, and made her send
her an order to retire into a convent.  But Ninon, observing that no especial convent was named,
said, with a great courtesy, to the officer who brought the order, that, as the option was
left to her, she would choose "the convent of the Cordeliers at Paris;" which impudent joke
so diverted the Queen that she left her alone for the future.  Ninon never had but one lover
at a time-- but her admirers were numberless--so that when wearied of one incumbent she told
him so frankly, and took another: The abandoned one might groan and complain; her decree was
without appeal; and this creature had acquired such an influence, that the deserted lovers
never dared to take revenge on the favoured one, and were too happy to remain on the footing
of friend of the house.  She sometimes kept faithful to one, when he pleased her very much,
during an entire campaign.

Ninon had illustrious friends of all sorts, and had so much wit that she preserved them all
and kept them on good terms with each other; or, at least, no quarrels ever came to light.
There was an external respect and decency about everything that passed in her house, such as
princesses of the highest rank have rarely been able to preserve in their intrigues.

In this way she had among her friends a selection of the best members of the Court; so that
it became the fashion to be received by her, and it was useful to be so, on account of the
connections that were thus formed.

There was never any gambling there, nor loud laughing, nor disputes, nor talk about religion
or politics; but much and elegant wit, ancient and modern stories, news of gallantries, yet
without scandal.  All was delicate, light, measured; and she herself maintained the conversation
by her wit and her great knowledge of facts.  The respect which, strange to say, she had acquired,
and the number and distinction of her friends and acquaintances, continued when her charms
ceased to attract; and when propriety and fashion compelled her to use only intellectual baits.
She knew all the intrigues of the old and the new Court, serious and otherwise; her conversation
was charming; she was disinterested, faithful, secret, safe to the last degree; and, setting
aside her frailty, virtuous and full of probity.  She frequently succoured her friends with
money and influence; constantly did them the most important services, and very faithfully kept
the secrets or the money deposits that were confided to her.

She had been intimate with Madame de Maintenon during the whole of her residence at Paris;
but Madame de Maintenon, although not daring to disavow this friendship, did not like to hear
her spoken about.

She wrote to Ninon with amity from time to time, even until her death; and Ninon in like manner,
when she wanted to serve any friend in whom she took great interest, wrote to Madame de Maintenon,
who did her what service she required efficaciously and with promptness.

But since Madame de Maintenon came to power, they had only seen each other two or three times,
and then in secret.

Ninon was remarkable for her repartees.  One that she made to the last Marechal de Choiseul
is worth repeating.  The Marechal was virtue itself, but not fond of company or blessed with
much wit.  One day, after a long visit he had paid her, Ninon gaped, looked at the Marechal,
and cried:

"Oh, my lord! how many virtues you make me detest!"

A line from I know not what play.  The laughter at this may be imagined. L'Enclos lived, long
beyond her eightieth year, always healthy, visited, respected.  She gave her last years to
God, and her death was the news of the day.  The singularity of this personage has made me
extend my observations upon her.

A short time after the death of Mademoiselle de l'Enclos, a terrible adventure happened to
Courtenvaux, eldest son of M. de Louvois. Courtenvaux was commander of the Cent-Suisses, fond
of obscure debauches; with a ridiculous voice, miserly, quarrelsome, though modest and respectful;
and in fine a very stupid fellow.  The King, more eager to know all that was passing than most
people believed, although they gave him credit for not a little curiosity in this respect,
had authorised Bontems to engage a number of Swiss in addition to those posted at the doors,
and in the parks and gardens.  These attendants had orders to stroll morning, noon, and night,
along the corridors, the passages, the staircases, even into the private places, and, when
it was fine, in the court-yards and gardens; and in secret to watch people, to follow them,
to notice where they went, to notice who was there, to listen to all the conversation they
could hear, and to make reports of their discoveries. This was assiduously done at Versailles,
at Marly, at Trianon, at Fontainebleau, and in all the places where the King was.  These new
attendants vexed Courtenvaux considerably, for over such new-comers he had no sort of authority.
This season, at Fontainebleau, a room, which had formerly been occupied by a party of the Cent-Suisses
and of the body-guard, was given up entirely to the new corps.  The room was in a public passage
of communication indispensable to all in the chateau, and in consequence, excellently well
adapted for watching those who passed through it.  Courtenvaux, more than ever vexed by this
new arrangement, regarded it as a fresh encroachment upon his authority, and flew into a violent
rage with the new-comers, and railed at them in good set terms. They allowed him to fume as
he would; they had their orders, and were too wise to be disturbed by his rage.  The King,
who heard of all this, sent at once for Courtenvaux.  As soon as he appeared in the cabinet,
the King called to him from the other end of the room, without giving him time to approach,
and in a rage so terrible, and for him so novel, that not only Courtenvaux, but Princes, Princesses,
and everybody in the chamber, trembled.  Menaces that his post should be taken away from him,
terms the most severe and the most unusual, rained upon Courtenvaux, who, fainting with fright,
and ready to sink under the ground, had neither the time nor the means to prefer a word.  The
reprimand finished by the King saying, "Get out."  He had scarcely the strength to obey.

The cause of this strange scene was that Courtenvaux, by the fuss he had made, had drawn the
attention of the whole Court to the change effected by the King, and that, when once seen,
its object was clear to all eyes. The King, who hid his spy system with the greatest care,
had counted upon this change passing unperceived, and was beside himself with anger when he
found it made apparent to everybody by Courtenvaux's noise.  He never regained the King's favour
during the rest of his life; and but for his family he would certainly have been driven away,
and his office taken from him.

Let me speak now of something of more moment.

The war, as I have said, still continued, but without bringing us any advantages.  On the contrary,
our losses in Germany and Italy by sickness, rather than by the sword, were so great that it
was resolved to augment each company by five men; and, at the same time, twenty-five thousand
militia were raised, thus causing great ruin and great desolation in the provinces.  The King
was rocked into the belief that the people were all anxious to enter this militia, and, from
time to time, at Marly, specimens of those enlisted were shown to him, and their joy and eagerness
to serve made much of.  I have heard this often; while, at the same time, I knew from my own
tenantry, and from everything that was said, that the raising of this militia carried despair
everywhere, and that many people mutilated themselves in order to exempt themselves from serving.
Nobody at the Court was ignorant of this.  People lowered their eyes when they saw the deceit
practised upon the King, and the credulity he displayed, and afterwards whispered one to another
what they thought of flattery so ruinous.  Fresh regiments, too, were raised at this time,
and a crowd of new colonels and staffs created, instead of giving a new battalion or a squadron
additional to regiments already in existence.  I saw quite plainly towards what rock we were
drifting.  We had met losses at Hochstedt, Gibraltar, and Barcelona; Catalonia and the neighbouring
countries were in revolt; Italy yielding us nothing but miserable successes; Spain exhausted;
France, failing in men and money, and with incapable generals, protected by the Court against
their faults. I saw all these things so plainly that I could not avoid making reflections,
or reporting them to my friends in office.  I thought that it was time to finish the war before
we sank still lower, and that it might be finished by giving to the Archduke what we could
not defend, and making a division of the rest.  My plan was to leave Philip V. possession of
all Italy, except those parts which belonged to the Grand Duke, the republics of Venice and
Genoa, and the ecclesiastical states of Naples and Sicily; our King to have Lorraine and some
other slight additions of territory; and to place elsewhere the Dukes of Savoy, of Lorraine,
of Parma, and of Modem.  I related this plan to the Chancellor and to Chamillart, amongst others.
The contrast between their replies was striking.  The Chancellor, after having listened to
me very attentively, said, if my plan were adopted, he would most willingly kiss my toe for
joy.  Chamillart, with gravity replied, that the King would not give up a single mill of all
the Spanish succession.  Then I felt the blindness which had fallen upon us, and how much the
results of it were to be dreaded.

Nevertheless, the King, as if to mock at misfortune and to show his enemies the little uneasiness
he felt, determined, at the commencement of the new year, 1706, that the Court should be gayer
than ever.  He announced that there would be balls at Marly every time he was there this winter,
and he named those who were to dance there; and said he should be very glad to see balls given
to Madame de Bourgogne at Versailles. Accordingly, many took place there, and also at Marly,
and from time to time there were masquerades.  One day, the King wished that everybody, even
the most aged, who were at Marly, should go to the ball masked; and, to avoid all distinction,
he went there himself with a gauze robe above his habit; but such a slight disguise was for
himself alone; everybody else was completely disguised.  M. and Madame de Beauvilliers were
there perfectly disguised.  When I say they were there, those who knew the Court will admit
that I have said more than enough.  I had the pleasure of seeing them, and of quietly laughing
with them.  At all these balls the King made people dance who had long since passed the age
for doing so.  As for the Comte de Brionne and the Chevalier de Sully, their dancing was so
perfect that there was no age for them.

CHAPTER XXXIV

In the midst of all this gaiety, that is to say on the 12th of February, 1706, one of our generals,
of whom I have often spoken, I mean M. de Vendome, arrived at Marly.  He had not quitted Italy
since succeeding to Marechal de Villeroy, after the affair of Cremona.  His battles, such as
they were, the places he had taken, the authority he had assumed, the reputation he had usurped,
his incomprehensible successes with the King, the certainty of the support he leaned on,--all
this inspired him with the desire to come and enjoy at Court a situation so brilliant, and
which so far surpassed what he had a right to expect.  But before speaking of the reception
which was given him, and of the incredible ascendancy he took, let me paint him from the life
a little more completely than I have yet done.

Vendome was of ordinary height, rather stout, but vigorous and active: with a very noble countenance
and lofty mien.  There was much natural grace in his carriage and words; he had a good deal
of innate wit, which he had not cultivated, and spoke easily, supported by a natural boldness,
which afterwards turned to the wildest audacity; he knew the world and the Court; was above
all things an admirable courtier; was polite when necessary, but insolent when he dared--familiar
with common people--in reality, full of the most ravenous pride.  As his rank rose and his
favour increased, his obstinacy, and pig-headedness increased too, so that at last he would
listen to no advice whatever, and was inaccessible to all, except a small number of familiars
and valets.  No one better than he knew the subserviency of the French character, or took more
advantage of it.  Little by little he accustomed his subalterns, and then from one to the other
all his army, to call him nothing but "Monseigneur," and "Your Highness."  In time the gangrene
spread, and even lieutenant-generals and the most distinguished people did not dare to address
him in any other manner.

The most wonderful thing to whoever knew the King--so gallant to the ladies during a long part
of his life, so devout the other, and often importunate to make others do as he did--was that
the said King had always a singular horror of the inhabitants of the Cities of the Plain; and
yet M. de Vendome, though most odiously stained with that vice--so publicly that he treated
it as an ordinary gallantry--never found his favour diminished on that account.  The Court,
Anet, the army, knew of these abominations.  Valets and subaltern officers soon found the way
to promotion.  I have already mentioned how publicly he placed himself in the doctor's hands,
and how basely the Court acted, imitating the King, who would never have pardoned a legitimate
prince what he indulged so strangely in Vendome.

The idleness of M. de Vendome was equally matter of notoriety.  More than once he ran the risk
of being taken prisoner from mere indolence.  He rarely himself saw anything at the army, trusting
to his familiars when ready to trust anybody.  The way he employed his day prevented any real
attention to business.  He was filthy in the extreme, and proud of it. Fools called it simplicity.
His bed was always full of dogs and bitches, who littered at his side, the pops rolling in
the clothes.  He himself was under constraint in nothing.  One of his theses was, that everybody
resembled him, but was not honest enough to confess it as he was.  He mentioned this once to
the Princesse de Conti--the cleanest person in the world, and the most delicate in her cleanliness.

