This immortal Dr. Faustus, the product of the Renaissance and the Reformation, first comes
into our ken at the beginning of the seventeenth century, when in 1604 he is introduced to
us by Christopher Marlowe. This is the same character that Goethe was to rediscover two centuries
later, although in certain respects the earlier Faust was the fresher and more spontaneous.
And side by side with him Mephistopheles appears, of whom Faust asks: "What good will my soul
do thy lord?" "Enlarge his kingdom," Mephistopheles replies. "Is that the reason why he tempts
us thus?" the Doctor asks again, and the evil spirit answers: "Solamen miseris socios habuisse
doloris," which, mistranslated into Romance, is the equivalent of our proverb--"The misfortune
of many is the consolation of fools." "Where we are is hell, and where hell is there must we
ever be," Mephistopheles continues, to which Faust answers that he thinks hell's a fable and
asks him who made the world. And finally this tragic Doctor, tortured with our torture, meets
Helen, who, although no doubt Marlowe never suspected it, is none other than renascent Culture.
And in Marlowe's Faust there is a scene that is worth the whole of the second part of the Faust
of Goethe.

Give me my soul again!--the cry of Faust, the Doctor, when, after having kissed Helen, he is
about to be lost eternally. For the primitive Faust has no ingenuous Margaret to save him.
This idea of his salvation was the invention of Goethe. And is there not a Faust whom we all
know, our own Faust? This Faust has studied Philosophy, Jurisprudence, Medicine, and even Theology,
only to find that we can know nothing, and he has sought escape in the open country (hinaus
ins weite Land) and has encountered Mephistopheles, the embodiment of that force which, ever
willing evil, ever achieves good in its own despite. This Faust has been led by Mephistopheles
to the arms of Margaret, child of the simple-hearted people, she whom Faust, the overwise,
had lost. And thanks to her--for she gave herself to him--this Faust is saved, redeemed by
the people that believes with a simple faith. But there was a second part, for that Faust was
the anecdotical Faust and not the categorical Faust of Goethe, and he gave himself again to
Culture, to Helen, and begot Euphorion upon her, and everything ends among mystical choruses
with the discovery of the eternal feminine. Poor Euphorion!

And this Helen is the spouse of the fair Menelaus, the Helen whom Paris bore away, who was
the cause of the war of Troy, and of whom the ancient Trojans said that no one should be incensed
because men fought for a woman who bore so terrible a likeness to the immortal gods. But I
rather think that Faust's Helen was that other Helen who accompanied Simon Magus, and whom
he declared to be the divine wisdom. And Faust can say to her: Give me my soul again!

For Helen with her kisses takes away our soul. And what we long for and have need of is soul--soul
of bulk and substance.

But the Renaissance, the Reformation, and the Revolution came, bringing Helen to us, or, rather,
urged on by Helen, and now they talk to us about Culture and Europe.

Europe! This idea of Europe, primarily and immediately of geographical significance, has been
converted for us by some magical process into a kind of metaphysical category. Who can say
to-day--in Spain, at any rate--what Europe is? I only know that it is a shibboleth (vide my
Tres Ensayos). And when I proceed to examine what it is that our Europeanizers call Europe,
it sometimes seems to me that much of its periphery remains outside of it--Spain, of course,
and also England, Italy, Scandinavia, Russia--and hence it is reduced to the central portion,
Franco-Germany, with its annexes and dependencies.

