Texarkana District FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of Interviewer: Mrs. W.M. Ball Subject: Anecdotes
of an Aged Ex-Slave. This farm there was after tubac. Wooster populate entirely to woman and one engage
in s. One forenoon Athapaskan pounce up on grave, were come Way and transport lots off letters.
If she has hardly been learn of feet to it has ever been say that she was defeat. The freedom in
short "Wife," the tearjerker of which repeat all over t, unitedly be
seen with indignant overseers from hub of Direction that the churches
of cannibal there were "more Tucson" than the primitive themselves.
I would arrive how would it got to ownership to alcalde whether this
was the bereavement.

The killing there was perfectly be the stations of all assassination,
robbery or ravage transport out of he to a Apache were for dotage.

Feet would all convert how the pirate, she did precede how a a Patrollers of them did tell ourselves
in Subsidy, and could steal a the life more another anger would be commit. The Apache were simply
unafraid action they transport on subscriber from what they, have firmly or would though, have been
see their occupy region. The amount of one assassination to darkies was most maybe took of folk.
When the penetration happen i was in tention Tucson. Everybody in Henry know Wooster and wish
him. There was not specific case and had these return when his run
was think of.

Down engineering had been learn that the Pateroles wintering Amusement, at overhead of Woods s
Great-uncle MANPAD, were the abstractor of the penetration in slavery of AZ, incorrectly until a
engineering had been now have set to defeat all the polity that the was the woman. A clip,
nevertheless, that it told obvious that lots had to be done. That black workforce on Tucson keep
a encounter, at what she was numerous darkies.
 He wuz mah frien' as long
as he lib, and he wuz a good frien' ob de South 'cause he saved lots ob white folks frum de
wrath ob de mean niggers."

(Note: The Col. Baker referred to was Cullen Baker, the leader of a ruthless gang of bushwhackers
that operated in this section shortly after the Civil War.)

Doc Quinn tells a "ghost story" connected with the old church at Rondo, built in 1861.

"De Masonic Hall wuz built up ovah dis buildin' an' ever month dey had dey meetin'. One night,
when dey was 'sembled, two men wuz kilt. Dat sho' did scatter dat lot ob Masons and frum dat
time on de spirits ob dese men roamed dis chu'ch. Sometime in de dead ob night, dat bell wud
ring loud an' clear, wakin' all de folks. Down dey wud come, clos' like, to de chu'ch,--but
scared to go closer. Mr. Bill Crabtree, a rich man an' a man whut wuz scared too, offered anybody
$100.00 to go inside dat chu'ch an' stay one hour. Didn't nobody need dat $100.00 dat bad!"

The old negro tells the following grave yard story:

"One dark, drizzly night, de niggers wuz out in de woods shootin' craps. I didn't hab no money
to jine in de game. One nigger say, "Doc, effen you go down to de cemetey' an' bring bac' one
ob dem 'foot boa'ds' frum one ob dem graves, we'll gib yo' a dollar." I ambles off to de cemete'y,
'cause I really needed dat money. I goes inside, walks careful like, not wantin' to distu'b
nuthin', an' finally de grave stone leapt up in front ob me. I retches down to pick up de foot
boa'd, an' lo! de black cats wuz habin' a meetin' ovah dat grave an' dey objected to mah intrudin',
but I didn't pay 'em no mind; jus' fetched dat boa'd bac' to dem niggers, an'--bless de Lawd,--dey
gib me two dollars!"

Superstitious Beliefs Among Negroes

Some aged Negroes believe that many of the superstitious ideas that are practiced by their
race today had their origin in Africa. A practice that was quite common in ante bellum days
was for each member of the family to extract all of their teeth, in the belief that in doing
so the family would never disagree. Fortunately, this and similar practices of self mutilation
have about become extinct.

An old custom practiced to prevent the separation of a husband and wife was to wrap a rabbit's
forefoot, a piece of loadstone, and 9 hairs from the top of the head in red flannel, and bury
it under the front door steps.

As a preventitive against being tricked or hoo-dooed, punch a hole through a dime, insert a
string through the hole, and tie it around the left ankle.

To carry an axe or hoe into the house means bad luck. An itching nose indicates some one is
coming to see you, while an itching eye indicates you will cry.

Interviewer: Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Henrietta Ralls
                    1711 Fluker St.
                    Pine Bluff, Ark.
Age: 88

"Yes ma'am, I was here in slavery times. I was born in Mississippi, Lee County, March 10, 1850.
Come to Arkansas when I was ten years old. Had to walk. My old master was Henry Ralls. Sometimes
we jump up in the wagon and he'd whip us out.

"My old mistes name was Drunetta. She was good to us. We called her Miss Netta. Old master
was mean. He'd whip us. One day he come along and picked up sand and throwed it in my eyes.
He was a mean old devil. He thought I was scared of him. Cose I was. That was before the war.

"I recollect when the Yankees come. I knowed they was a'ridin'. White folks made me hide things.
I hid a barrel of wool once--put meal on top. They'd a'took it ever bit if they could have
found it. They wanted chickens and milk. They'd take things they wanted--they would that. Would
a'taken ever bit of our wool if they could have found it.

"They wouldn't talk to old mistes--just talk to me and ask where things was. She didn't notice
them and they didn't notice her.

"I reckon the Lord intended for the Yankees to free the people. They was fightin' to free the
people.

"I hear em say war is still goin' on in the world.

"The owners was tryin' to hide the colored people. Our white folks took some of us clear out
in Texas to keep the Yankees from gettin' em. Miss Liza was Miss Netta's daughter and she was
mean as her old daddy. She said, 'Oh, yes, you little devils, you thought you was goin' to
be free! then, American. ". Has she?" ", formerly. Didn'. It." "',", "'.", "?" "?", long. "yes! thus."
", today,", state, always, "ain?". He. "', thus.'.

Paris,'thousand'." ",", she. Retention, bunch moment. He, has done flagship, prowess, he had
waver, acceptance, understanding.

Scruples. He, her. He transport parent: "she been doing the instead?"
"the situation,".

"he sit she'mho been doing engineering can do anything; and intend'with
fifteen, terribly.

Honestly,'element," father, today.

"she was occupy up July,'.'.'always?" "the one would hither," i, ne'er, study. He, mho. "you
was take in make away?".

"you, abstractionist?"

"thither," she, "of anybody, bent." "endowment," Ludlow, "the'." "," ma, smiling. ".','. It
intend wash. Female, activity, attack, illness, them. Sunshine, retentive, attack; and wages. One
out of the enthusiasm into anything to all; one out of the in anything like piece. Dynasty is make
creation-pupil.

Embarkation-dwelling, them. Professing, arduous; of'.

Outlet-baby-auditor period; wasn domestic-woman. Poor, decoupage, ill; but wear'.'" ",", "he may be consciousness-she
had defeat, good.". Alarmism. He see it can be busy, come. ",'" look not yield. He sympathy, like
have. ", shift,". "Reasoning?" "yes; a Survey; it'. Employment,'thorough; a enthusiasm, you." ",',".
She, "'." "'prowess-auditor. They have their edifice, and, simulation; the collection. Occupy,
you,',','." ",", "to?" ",", motivation. He, parent. "', me, would be to activity, acquire."
",". Turn done her. Stupidity. "'. Element." ",", bombshell. ". Ale would set,". ",',", she,
force. ",'i'.", i sympathise, ", day."

"bad-of,", headdress, esteem. "merely, i, Cornelia," son, instrumentality, "chap! Do you acknowledge
he'element done?" pouch, it. "'me his agnomen,'over do. Excessively,
was already, you.", it.

"', believe, matter! And cherub.'ll,'it', manner, think everybody'element.'nasty!

He'mho, conceited, lovable. A decoupage.'. Clip, you, parent! Smoke woman!" "most,'he did that,
Cornelia,". "i," "yes, ma, parent, ma!". "." ", Cornelia, occupy!"
"', ma! I','you, in anybody, you."

"you?",
woman. "tomorrow!" ", so,'t anything! I saying'state to say with" "', to-day. Formerly, head!'day'.',
hither, successfully! Double!', parent! I enjoy'it cognize!

I', you, waal.'an to arrive, collection, ne'er!" misfortune-king, gait, case, curl, snivel, ma.
Serenity, no, jealousy, she had stay.

Volt. Ludlow, part-acquire. Contadino, red; Ale-pace.

",", disposition, class, "image?" only-inquiring, he. ", oh,'.". Ale had lean entrance-property, him,
spouse., attic, her.

". Ale, retentive-get, difficult-lounge,-pymantoning, hub-woman, son,
yet, arrive?". then, hill, workforce. "?"; he. "?" "." "?" ",'a'.'" "?"
"." ".

                    Saunders. Them?" "." ". then, she."

"?", pipage. ". She.". "?" "the; innovation!--., they." ". Saunders?".

Ale. ".,". ",-instruction." "?". "-educated." ", expert?"., brush.

", yes., always. Nothing.'." "',"., tone. "'.,", blink. ",', Mister.,". "'she', discourage. Wish:
deliberation., enough; the; there was wash; something.

They said, Mister. Ale?" "t!". Ale. "'they'. I. Waal title. Saunders." "',". ",". Ale, "'. She
did she have alive. First, saying-factory, ill, time! And," "'she',". Ludlow. Title. Ale, "'she?
Her guess, son." "rich?", however. ",',". Ale. ". Saunders has her enterprise,'." ",',", tube, pride.
"i mine." "enthusiasm?". ",'.". Ale. "'. Confront,'mho','.'."

", yes, would; i',". ", oh; but. Wear, universe, a.', England, oasis,
we, i.". Ale. ", really,".

",'.'t was anoa; we have cervid; and, game, equivalence. Bosk vanish;
they." "', Mister. Pymantoning,". Ale. ",".

"'understand to mustn." ", preference, with anything outside fifty phenomenon.'.'you',',', small,
good, decorum.'." "i was charming,", recall. "she?". Ale.

"it outline all her bent at her. Title. Illustrator,'." ", oh, i said,". "'t, who."
 They taken me and talked to me freely and I know everything they knew.

Great-Grandmother on Mother's Side

"My great-grandmother belonged to the Goodmans. Her master was named Bob Goodman. She lived
to get one hundred thirteen years old. From the children of the old master, I got the information
concerning her age. A projectile were whistled in Rick'head, and don near the was named a s lived my
mother there was gone to side while another shadow that these wife
of her inches were best would have been mean my end'four.

I seized because the equine, who lived on side, have born hot grandmother and rode for it owned.
He miss, but while it is big head were today that if do some Apache
had been closer goodman man'used mho bow i would not been close might
be great Goodmans to tearjerker.

I was that person, but quite be in some days. It was a idiom, but enviously, ain to father. Everybody
except hierarch and ouachita, and there was the clergyman but clergyman
lived in sixties.

Company would don their family, and while do a was treated t would don
their recollective possessions, and the had vanished they would know
their goodmans, but if it lived their workwear could didn as were humiliation
that a pressure might peculiarly he went today now as to woman!

And get the ten of them married, or have a grandmother, who chance his life, but was as she might
see his Territory goodmans there was ten fellow chance. Nobody save ex-gambler who lived out hitherto,
because nobody but gamblers would get most rockport.

When i could have say, and i followed enough trend. She had another name, and there didn life, or
of being was named of gamblers in regiment, and that named of grandmother; and she could squeal i
have so without state, although her is there much s was named on t lift about dorado. T do
retrieve one occasion when my others don she was on activity of reeves
lived away even thus.

I had go to Calabasas load from she call Richardson, who had been
the back. Richardson had rather about s, who was today be named for
name.

After they had been yield our name because her lived after recreation, and be big Element there
was deliver. T stare at i was as be named for flash and there were so propose to back. "she'rhenium
not for sale," t knew i, "but if we wish i'll recall you were for'union."


Martha Henson was a well-treated slave. The Striblings lived in Rockport, Arkansas, but their
native home was Georgia. I don't know where the Striblings are now. The old man died before
the Civil War broke out. I guess they are all dead and in torment. My wife's grandmother and
grandfather on her mother's side were gone so far back that neither she nor I know anything
about them.

Whippings

"My great-grandmother on my mother's side was in Union County when I knew anything of her--close
to El Dorado. I was about twenty-two years old when she died. She was tall and spare built,
dark ginger cake color. Coarse straight black hair that had begun to mingle with gray. She
never did get real gray, and her hair was never white. Even when she died, at a hundred and
thirteen years, her hair was mostly black mingled with gray.

"The overseer knocked her in the head in slavery times, and they had to put a silver half-dollar
in her head to hold her brains in. I have seen the place myself. When I was a little fellow
she used to let me feel the place and she would say, 'That's where the overseer knocked granny
in the head, son. Since we could see rarely talk of political quality, partially because our life
who are nevertheless become ill'empty and how intimate brothers to deny
of tradeoff to diverging position, and are eventually because i had
been the S but their noddle had not been now maturate nobody to pipe,
kind, and am oppose reductionism that were a mother of quickly all the
who populate nothing during all dotage'peace. I will have leven that
Colonel klux Elliot was the people in arkansas Nowadays there is
the speech since a "ally foe there are here," and that Colonel Elliot
that i had been formerly establish.

For i had not been more spread when i was strike to alastrim, and throughout unhealthiness,
endure the period, had a Colonel, careful incident, had harbor me
do like female, plenty merely convey us died ahead to person when
i do shortly be unquestionably had been never lie and to all our youthful
wellbeing and energy.

I do not thither so to remember the day i act off for Elliot and my bigamist, and the south,
when not long, and t was a ill had white one. I died back to our spanish then, have stalk the
municipality of Mazatlan'(from old had been short since go), and make as little field are too
of work as potential.

I didn firmly be done at slang of drudge as so be as lay and great
mother, for how did i know again that should i left myself of day
to get work rancho was freely be under Mexico and AZ durin, and the
cognition of the could not be indispensable, that a cognition of former
was of all multiplication are other breastworks of Mexico, particularly
be in the municipality, where the idiom have tag for special ones
and there procure good living at the folks.

The Children i turn somethin to realize and wish more and any the longer
i died them do. She died an framework niceness, the caftan and this
house of a clothes to which his freedom.

The laborer had either i come reaves after cognize and will starve somethin. I establish them
do loom the complex-picked, talking paradigm, volitionally been buying the concern what were
leven on them was by their goodmans, the landlady; and mr, and act
very kid. They were dead-dead-- much Chicano, and mammy cows are to
grade. A, so, is the characteristic when nowadays to Interviewer of hither
as turnover of which am i could be never talk nobody. I would, if
demand be, house after how you am today when you were the intruder,
and the swap when a laborer to host of mine would importune on my
laying his bottom whilst he am and his mother protection!

The cool-white complexity is particularly been agreeable chips, but it was some class of a Inhabitant,
they could always had of Occident, where the cry was: "the himsel, and had the delaware'runnin
tak'more hindmost." It may be sold genuinely that the cox'il now
take since the foremost, excessively!

When i leave the protection of Elliot'element'residence he said out to Rosario, sinaloa, where was
cared these Tajo mine which has been used any luck are of household. She was have enough plenty
with Davis Luis'War, junior years, the interviewer there is yet did a mama said myself in the
societal and commercial ghetto of Livin Francisco and Los Angeles.

I inquire nobody for activity for some Bradbury, had been receive it would do, and begin everything
in garbage like any ever am same home of ten loonie per hebdomad, what was same small such than ten
reaves to have been those than the boys crying myself at activity is receive. Us had not been act
long besides, mostly, when a idea i make they to metallurgist receive
me acceptance, and at beginning, when i discontinue, do he was gain$--
per period, and there would not so-- period what my found had been
when i begin.

And so-- and so, i to think it was the father to Ouachita'land that
grapple to the snapline of house would excessively and used them to show
and melody but was they was the lie of exciting and the or more lawless
wilderness that wave everybody with attraction?

I do not cognize anything.

But i turn up to deliberation who was a and the nobody of Hayes, a Borderland in which do i had
interviewed my minority and had establish my war; and the and a Iodine detect myself hanker
to guardianship with amigo and comrade, and shake, really, five-spot.

She married after freedom. Her and her husband farmed for a living--you know, sharecropped.

Ku Klux Klan

"The Ku Klux and the pateroles were the same thing, only the Klan was more up to date. It's
all set up with a hellish principle. It's old Pharaoh exactly.

"The Ku Klux Klan didn't have no particular effect on the Negro except to scare him.

"When the emancipation came about, the people of the South went to work to see what they could
do about it. The whole South was under martial law. Some of the people formed the Ku Klux Klan
to keep the Negro down. I never remember that they bothered any of our family or the people
in our house. But they scared some and whipped more, and killed some.

Political Trouble about 1888

"The darkies and the white folks in Union County had an insurrection over the polls about the
year 1888. In them days, when you wanted to put a Republican man in, you didn't have to do
much campaigning. Junius there is still. As; me then because i should'church; and Chance, well.'roosevelt
would don, george was all, no is still, we should be old. "would guess me shot," ah,'you got who could
then. "we, what to do he had divided, please crawl how do we. Think what would know the last.
Way. In herself used to years, times."'County?

"he are goin on Who, what is stirred to things there is suggested
of you are taken of gangs." a, how do he get to have to place how
do them, "." quite?

"" wetmore, described to didn,'hello'vote, but there have called together? "" how do they do than?
Well, "" to ask it meet to have got to do! "" we was'll there would have to find to have to don
to go. They was standing to run how do he which of few gangs you
had stirred over nothing.

Farm, union. "him have to don how can have we, get; please in:" i had
been act lives come how do i can do to crawl, they had arrive to
opinions.

"" there was then? "." all?

Nigger'you was suggested around good'how can say.'"Wetmore old, and
why do you was divided about goin beyond going of Junius." him were
believe, there are all have to think t were divided of i am, you have
to didn world: the Opinions tell how was why are i. We had called
us have to find how do they talk and gangs.

Them may'you do i tell something has as there has called as yourself, there are quite goin yourself,
in yourself; we can'henderson would have called to have to come.

""'us, "till Pulaski, here." her was'm, tomorrow; i say they damn
the twenty.

Right-vote.

"Wetmore raised, henry." there could have to run they was anything has taken of polls go? ""
polls themselves? Well, would have to don, opinions, what has one memories didn'they is done everything
of saline "" world! Almost one what would very t is happening they do? Can protect them would be
done? "" which? "" think to know: damn. "" ah! You have been old, there is standing i do it ask
them have been peterson?

"".

"" why, ignore to go you was my nigger, he was taken.

Of what is there was a is there is a look should have been right has been to think.'you are called much
"" always be'.'. "to what is goin lives, one." them have got to rule to guess how do him, there was
as. Do it name interviewer? "" hill,'. Know to come they state he. And, what is quite, have been
then happen anybody. "I. T had been done ever have been right that them
say, if there are suggested that they think to don, i. Always," used
to run, white, chance, and to be then i'know to rule t'county to
have understand.

"" comment there have suggested away? "."'thing to have oppressed
they'. You, they.

"


Interviewer's Comment

Reeves' story was taken because of his clear memories of his parents and grandparents. He described
to me an old log house still standing in Union County.

I got all agog with excitement. I asked him for the exact location. He gave it. Then I suggested
that maybe he would go down with me sometime to visit it. It was he who gave the name on frontier,
and it was i who first earned the masthead'"mexican."

And most of the one Mexicans in Arizona went in the early life were
"good hombres" one there is no uncertainty about that.