When Caesar was dispatched, Brutus stood forth to give a reason for what they had done, but
the senate would not hear him, but flew out of doors in all haste, and filled the people with
so much alarm and distraction, that some shut up their houses, others left their counters and
shops.  All ran one way or the other, some to the place to see the sad spectacle, others back
again after they had seen it.  Antony and Lepidus, Caesar's most faithful friends, got off
privately, and hid themselves in some friends' houses.  Brutus and his followers, being yet
hot from the deed, marched in a body from the senate-house to the capitol with their drawn
swords, not like persons who thought of escaping, but with an air of confidence and assurance,
and as they went along, called to the people to resume their liberty, and invited the company
of any more distinguished people whom they met.  And some of these joined the procession and
went up along with them, as if they also had been of the conspiracy, and could claim a share
in the honor of what had been done.  As, for example, Caius Octavius and Lentulus Spinther,
who suffered afterwards for their vanity, being taken off by Antony and the young Caesar, and
lost the honor they desired, as well as their lives, which it cost them, since no one believed
they had any share in the action.  For neither did those who punished them profess to revenge
the fact, but the ill-will.  The day after, Brutus with the rest came down from the capitol,
and made a speech to the people, who listened without expressing either any pleasure or resentment,
but showed by their silence that they pitied Caesar, and respected Brutus.  The senate passed
acts of oblivion for what was past, and took measures to reconcile all parties.  They ordered
that Caesar should be worshipped as a divinity, and nothing, even of the slightest consequence,
should be revoked, which he had enacted during his government.  At the same time they gave
Brutus and his followers the command of provinces, and other considerable posts.  So that all
people now thought things were well settled, and brought to the happiest adjustment.

But when Caesar's will was opened, and it was found that he had left a considerable legacy
to each one of the Roman citizens, and when his body was seen carried through the market-place
all mangled with wounds, the multitude could no longer contain themselves within the bounds
of tranquillity and order, but heaped together a pile of benches, bars, and tables, which they
placed the corpse on, and setting fire to it, burnt it on them. Then they took brands from
the pile, and ran some to fire the houses of the conspirators, others up and down the city,
to find out the men and tear them to pieces, but met, however, with none of them, they having
taken effectual care to secure themselves.

One Cinna, a friend of Caesar's, chanced the night before to have an odd dream.  He fancied
that Caesar invited him to supper, and that upon his refusal to go with him, Caesar took him
by the hand and forced him, though he hung back.  Upon hearing the report that Caesar's body
was burning in the market-place, he got up and went thither, out of respect to his memory,
though his dream gave him some ill apprehensions, and though he was suffering from a fever.
One of the crowd who saw him there, asked another who that was, and having learned his name,
told it to his next neighbor.  It presently passed for a certainty that he was one of Caesar's
murderers, as, indeed, there was another Cinna, a conspirator, and they, taking this to be
the man, immediately seized him, and tore him limb from limb upon the spot.

Brutus and Cassius, frightened at this, within a few days retired out of the city.  What they
afterwards did and suffered, and how they died, is written in the Life of Brutus.  Caesar died
in his fifty-sixth year, not having survived Pompey above four years.  That empire and power
which he had pursued through the whole course of his life with so much hazard, he did at last
with much difficulty compass, but reaped no other fruits from it than the empty name and invidious
glory.  But the great genius which attended him through his lifetime, even after his death
remained as the avenger of his murder, pursuing through every sea and land all those who were
concerned in it, and suffering none to escape, but reaching all who in any sort or kind were
either actually engaged in the fact, or by their counsels any way promoted it.

The most remarkable of mere human coincidences was that which befell Cassius, who, when he
was defeated at Philippi, killed himself with the same dagger which he had made use of against
Caesar.  The most signal preternatural appearances were the great comet, which shone very bright
for seven nights after Caesar's death, and then disappeared, and the dimness of the sun, whose
orb continued pale and dull for the whole of that year, never showing its ordinary radiance
at its rising, and giving but a weak and feeble heat.  The air consequently was damp and gross,
for want of stronger rays to open and rarify it. The fruits, for that reason, never properly
ripened, and began to wither and fall off for want of heat, before they were fully formed.
But above all, the phantom which appeared to Brutus showed the murder was not pleasing to the
gods.  The story of it is this.

Brutus being to pass his army from Abydos to the continent on the other side, laid himself
down one night, as he used to do, in his tent, and was not asleep, but thinking of his affairs,
and what events he might expect.  For he is related to have been the least inclined to sleep
of all men who have commanded armies, and to have had the greatest natural capacity for continuing
awake, and employing himself without need of rest. He thought he heard a noise at the door
of his tent, and looking that way, by the light of his lamp, which was almost out, saw a terrible
figure, like that of a man, but of unusual stature and severe countenance.  He was somewhat
frightened at first, but seeing it neither did nor spoke anything to him, only stood silently
by his bed-side, he asked who it was.  The specter answered him, "Thy evil genius, Brutus,
thou shalt see me at Philippi."  Brutus answered courageously, "Well, I shall see you," and
immediately the appearance vanished.  When the time was come, he drew up his army near Philippi
against Antony and Caesar, and in the first battle won the day, routed the enemy, and plundered
Caesar's camp.  The night before the second battle, the same phantom appeared to him again,
but spoke not a word.  He presently understood his destiny was at hand, and exposed himself
to all the danger of the battle.  Yet he did not die in the fight, but seeing his men defeated,
got up to the top of a rock, and there presenting his sword to his naked breast, and assisted,
as they say, by a friend, who helped him to give the thrust, met his death.

PHOCION

Demades, the orator, when in the height of the power which he obtained at Athens by advising
the state in the interest of Antipater and the Macedonians, being necessitated to write and
speak many things below the dignity, and contrary to the character, of the city, was wont to
excuse himself by saying he steered only the shipwrecks of the commonwealth.  This hardy saying
of his might have some appearance of truth, if applied to Phocion's government.  For Demades
indeed was himself the mere wreck of his country, living and ruling so dissolutely, that Antipater
took occasion to say of him, when he was now grown old, that he was like a sacrificed beast,
all consumed except the tongue and the belly.  But Phocion's was a real virtue, only overmatched
in the unequal contest with an adverse time, and rendered by the ill fortunes of Greece inglorious
and obscure.  We must not, indeed, allow ourselves to concur with Sophocles in so far diminishing
the force of virtue as to say that,

When fortune fails, the sense we had before Deserts us also, and is ours no more.

Yet thus much, indeed, must be allowed to happen in the conflicts between good men and ill
fortune, that instead of due returns of honor and gratitude, obloquy and unjust surmises may
often prevail, to weaken, in a considerable degree, the credit of their virtue.

It is commonly said that public bodies are most insulting and contumelious to a good man, when
they are puffed up with prosperity and success.  But the contrary often happens; afflictions
and public calamities naturally embittering and souring the minds and tempers of men, and disposing
them to such peevishness and irritability, that hardly any word or sentiment of common vigor
can be addressed to them, but they will be apt to take offense.  He that remonstrates with
them on their errors, is presumed to be insulting over their misfortunes, and any free spoken
expostulation is construed into contempt.  Honey itself is searching in sore and ulcerated
parts; and the wisest and most judicious counsels prove provoking to distempered minds, unless
offered with those soothing and compliant approaches which made the poet, for instance, characterize
agreeable things in general, by a word expressive of a grateful and easy touch, exciting nothing
of offense or resistance.  Inflamed eyes require a retreat into dusky places, amongst colors
of the deepest shades, and are unable to endure the brilliancy of light.  So fares it in the
body politic, in times of distress and humiliation; a certain sensitiveness and soreness of
humor prevail, with a weak incapacity of enduring any free and open advice, even when the necessity
of affairs most requires such plain-dealing, and when the consequences of any single error
may be beyond retrieving.  At such times the conduct of public affairs is on all hands most
hazardous.  Those who humor the people are swallowed up in the common ruin; those who endeavor
to lead them aright, perish the first in their attempt.

Astronomers tell us, the sun's motion is neither exactly parallel with that of the heavens
in general, nor yet directly and diametrically opposite, but describing an oblique line, with
insensible declination he steers his course in such a gentle, easy curve, as to dispense his
light and influence, in his annual revolution, at several seasons, in just proportions to the
whole creation.  So it happens in political affairs; if the motions of rulers be constantly
opposite and cross to the tempers and inclination of the people, they will be resented as arbitrary
and harsh; as, on the other side, too much deference, or encouragement, as too often it has
been, to popular faults and errors, is full of danger and ruinous consequences.  But where
concession is the response to willing obedience, and a statesman gratifies his people, that
he may the more imperatively recall them to a sense of the common interest, then, indeed, human
beings, who are ready enough to serve well and submit to much, if they are not always ordered
about and roughly handled, like slaves, may be said to be guided and governed upon the method
that leads to safety.  Though it must be confessed, it is a nice point and extremely difficult,
so to temper this lenity as to preserve the authority of the government.  But if such a blessed
mixture and temperament may be obtained, it seems to be of all concords and harmonies the most
concordant and most harmonious.  For thus we are taught even God governs the world, not by
irresistible force, but persuasive argument and reason, controlling it into compliance with
his eternal purposes.

Cato the younger is a similar instance.  His manners were little agreeable or acceptable to
the people, and he received very slender marks of their favor; witness his repulse when he
sued for the consulship, which he lost, as Cicero says, for acting rather like a citizen in
Plato's commonwealth, than among the dregs of Romulus's posterity, the same thing happening
to him, in my opinion, as we observe in fruits ripe before their season, which we rather take
pleasure in looking at and admiring, than actually use; so much was his old-fashioned virtue
out of the present mode, among the depraved customs which time and luxury had introduced, that
it appeared indeed remarkable and wonderful, but was too great and too good to suit the present
exigencies, being so out of all proportion to the times.  Yet his circumstances were not altogether
like Phocion's, who came to the helm when the ship of the state was just upon sinking.  Cato's
time was, indeed, stormy and tempestuous, yet so as he was able to assist in managing the sails,
and lend his helping hand to those who, which he was not allowed to do, commanded at the helm.
Others were to blame for the result; yet his courage and virtue made it in spite of all a hard
task for fortune to ruin the commonwealth, and it was only with long time and effort and by
slow degrees, when he himself had all but succeeded in averting it, that the catastrophe was
at last effected.

Phocion and he may be well compared together, not for any mere general resemblances, as though
we should say, both were good men and great statesmen.  For assuredly there is difference enough
among virtues of the same denomination, as between the bravery of Alcibiades and that of Epaminondas,
the prudence of Themistocles and that of Aristides, the justice of Numa and that of Agesilaus. For
argument's sake, let us only suppose, that my cook whose name is Noirmont, has bought the shop
of pastrycook that is opposite to the palace. La Ramée who is a
little bit of an sensualist, tries his beefs, finds them excellent,
and asks me that would I like to have one.  The mixture
is still made in the same exact proportions, whether we look at the combination to be found
in them both of lenity on the one hand, with austerity on the other; their boldness upon some
occasions, and caution on others; their extreme solicitude for the public, and perfect neglect
of themselves; their fixed and immovable bent to all virtuous and honest actions, accompanied
with an extreme tenderness and scrupulosity as to doing anything which might appear mean or
unworthy; so that we should need a very nice and subtle logic of discrimination to detect and
establish the distinctions between them. 

The only piece of true characterization in the whole book is the depiction of Abe Mollett, the certainly
not scrupulous, blackmailing criminal is presented to us with fashion
and with some loving preoccupation of the hunter for his prey.  For had he been the son of a turner,
as Idomeneus reports, it had certainly not been forgotten to his disparagement by Glaucippus,
the son of Hyperides, when heaping up a thousand spiteful things to say against him.  Nor,
indeed, had it been possible for him, in such circumstances, to have had such a liberal breeding
and education in his youth, as to be first Plato's, and afterwards Xenocrates's scholar in
the Academy, and to have devoted himself from the first to the pursuit of the noblest studies
and practices.  His countenance was so composed, that scarcely was he ever seen by any Athenian
either laughing, or in tears.  He was rarely known, so Duris has recorded, to appear in the
public baths, or was observed with his hand exposed outside his cloak, when he wore one.  Abroad,
and in the camp, he was so hardy in going always thin clad and barefoot, except in a time of
excessive and intolerable cold, that the soldiers used to say in merriment, that it was like
to be a hard winter when Phocion wore his coat.

Although he was most gentle and humane in his disposition, his aspect was stern and forbidding,
so that he was seldom accosted alone by any who were not intimate with him.  When Chares once
made some remark on his frowning looks, and the Athenians laughed at the jest.  "My sullenness,"
said Phocion, "never yet made any of you sad, but these men's jollities have given you sorrow
enough."  In like manner Phocion's language, also, was full of instruction, abounding in happy
maxims and wise thoughts, but admitted no embellishment to its austere and commanding brevity.
Zeno said a philosopher should never speak till his words had been steeped in meaning; and
such, it may be said, were Phocion's, crowding the greatest amount of significance into the
smallest allowance of space.  And to this, probably, Polyeuctus, the Sphettian, referred, when
he said that Demosthenes was, indeed, the best orator of his time, but Phocion the most powerful
speaker.  His oratory, like small coin of great value, was to be estimated, not by its bulk,
but its intrinsic worth.  He was once observed, it is said, when the theater was filling with
the audience, to walk musing alone behind the scenes, which one of his friends taking notice
of, said, "Phocion, you seem to be thoughtful."  "Yes," replied he, "I am considering how I
may shorten what I am going to say to the Athenians."  Even Demosthenes himself, who used to
despise the rest of the haranguers, when Phocion stood up, was wont to say quietly to those
about him, "Here is the pruning-knife of my periods." The drawing shown on the next page should
give you a fair idea of the difference in shape.
In the middle of the ordinary pot is a spearhead made of wood or iron that is 8 to 12 inches
in length. This is set upright and has one large barb in the middle
of the center frame.

In his youth he followed Chabrias, the general, from whom he gained many lessons in military
knowledge, and in return did something to correct his unequal and capricious humor.  For whereas
at other times Chabrias was heavy and phlegmatic, in the heat of battle he used to be so fired
and transported, that he threw himself headlong into danger beyond the forwardest, which, indeed,
in the end, cost him his life in the island of Chios, he having pressed his own ship foremost
to force a landing.  But Phocion, being a man of temper as well as courage, had the dexterity
at some times to rouse the general, when in his procrastinating mood, to action, and at others
to moderate and cool the impetuousness of his unseasonable fury.  Upon which account Chabrias,
who was a good-natured, kindly-tempered man, loved him much, and procured him commands and
opportunities for action, giving him means to make himself known in Greece, and using his assistance
in all his affairs of moment.  Particularly the sea-fight at Naxos added not a little to Phocion's
reputation, when he had the left squadron committed to him by Chabrias, as in this quarter
the battle was sharply contested, and was decided by a speedy victory.  And this being the
first prosperous sea-battle the city had engaged in with its own force since its captivity,
Chabrias won great popularity by it, and Phocion, also, got the reputation of a good commander.
The victory was gained at the time of the Great Mysteries, and Chabrias used to keep the commemoration
of it, by distributing wine among the Athenians, yearly, on the sixteenth day of Boedromion.

After this, Chabrias sent Phocion to demand their quota of the charges of the war from the
islanders, and offered him a guard of twenty ships.  Phocion told him, if he intended him to
go against them as enemies, that force was insignificant; if as to friends and allies, one
vessel was sufficient.  So he took his own single galley, and having visited the cities, and
treated with the magistrates in an equitable and open manner, he brought back a number of ships,
sent by the confederates to Athens, to convey the supplies.  Neither did his friendship and
attention close with Chabrias's life, but after his decease he carefully maintained it to all
that were related to him, and chiefly to his son Ctesippus, whom he labored to bring to some
good, and although he was a stupid and intractable young fellow, always endeavored, so far
as in him lay, to correct and cover his faults and follies.  Once, however, when the youngster
was very impertinent and troublesome to him in the camp, interrupting him with idle questions,
and putting forward his opinions and suggestions of how the war should be conducted, he could
not forbear exclaiming, "O Chabrias, Chabrias, how grateful I show myself for your friendship,
in submitting to endure your son."

Upon looking into public matters, and the way in which they were now conducted, he observed
that the administration of affairs was cut and parceled out, like so much land by allotment,
between the military men and the public speakers, so that neither these nor those should interfere
with the claims of the others.  As the one were to address the assemblies, to draw up votes
and prepare motions, men, for example, like Eubulus, Aristophon, Demosthenes, Lycurgus, and
Hyperides, and were to push their interests here; so, in the meantime, Diopithes, Menestheus,
Leosthenes, and Chares, were to make their profit by war and in military commands. Phocion,
on the other hand, was desirous to restore and carry out the old system, more complete in itself,
and more harmonious and uniform, which prevailed in the times of Pericles, Aristides, and Solon;
when statesmen showed themselves, to use Archilochus's words, --

Mars' and the Muses' friends alike designed, To arts and arms indifferently inclined,

and the presiding goddess of his country was, he did not fail to see, the patroness and protectress
of both civil and military wisdom.  With these views, while his advice at home was always for
peace and quietness, he nevertheless held the office of general more frequently than any of
the statesmen, not only of his own times, but of those preceding, never, indeed, promoting
or encouraging military expeditions, yet never, on the other hand, shunning or declining, when
he was called upon by the public voice.  Thus much is well known, that he was no less than
forty-five several times chosen general, he being never on any one of those occasions present
at the election, but having the command, in his absence, by common suffrage, conferred on him,
and he sent for on purpose to undertake it.  Insomuch that it amazed those who did not well
consider, to see the people always prefer Phocion, who was so far from humoring them or courting
their favor, that he always thwarted and opposed them.  But so it was, as great men and princes
are said to call in their flatterers when dinner has been served, so the Athenians, upon slight
occasions, entertained and diverted themselves with their spruce speakers and trim orators,
but when it came to action, they were sober and considerate enough to single out the austerest
and wisest for public employment, however much he might be opposed to their wishes and sentiments.
This, indeed, he made no scruple to admit, when the oracle from Delphi was read, which informed
them that the Athenians were all of one mind, a single dissentient only excepted, frankly coming
forward and declaring that they need look no further; he was the man, there was no one but
he who was dissatisfied with everything they did.  And when once he gave his opinion to the
people, and was met with the general approbation and applause of the assembly, turning to some
of his friends, he asked them, "Have I inadvertently said something foolish?"

