The objections thus adduced are, in our judgment, quite sufficient to condemn the dogma of
universal foreordination. Yet others of a grave character may be urged against it. It is a
sacred duty as well as a privilege of the Christian, to defend the Divine administration when
attacked by infidels. But if everything has been fixed how can this be done? Look at the fall.
God knew that it would occur, but, according to Calvinism, He knew it because He had foreordained
it. But the actors in the whole transaction were severely blamed and punished. The woman was
told that because she had done what she did, her sorrow was to be multiplied; and the man was
driven out of Paradise, because he had hearkened unto the voice of his wife. Can such declarations
be justified if the transactions recorded were all foreordained? Each of the parties condemned
might have asked, and done so pertinently--Why put this punishment upon me when I was simply
carrying out the Divine decrees? And what answer could be given? None that we know of which
would satisfy the reason. And what, then? This--viz., that in the light of the drama of the
fall, the doctrine of universal foreordination must be given up as a myth which ignores philosophy,
and reflects injuriously upon the Divine character.

In Jeremiah vii. 29-31 it is written: "Cut off thy hair, O Jerusalem, and cast it away, and
take up a lamentation on high places . . . for the children of Judah have done evil in my sight,
saith the Lord: they have set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to
pollute it. And they have built the high places of Tophet, . . . to burn their sons and their
daughters in the fire; which I commanded them not, nor came it into my heart." Here the Lord
expressly declares, that instead of having foreordained these deeds, such an idea was never
in His heart. There is here a clear "Thus saith the Lord" against the dogma of universal predestination.

In Mark v. 6, it is said of Jesus that "He marvelled because of their unbelief." But we only
marvel when we are ignorant of the cause of a phenomenon. As soon as we know this the marvel
ceases. Had Jesus, therefore, known that all was fixed, He never would have marvelled. Would
you marvel that the fire had gone out when it was decreed not to give additional fuel? Would
the miller marvel that the mill did not go when he had ordained that the water should be shut
off? The prefixing of all events, and "marvelling" at anything, are out of the question. But
since Christ did "marvel" it shows that He believed that they could and ought to have believed,
and that He knew of no reason why they did not. It may be said that He was a man, and spake
and felt like a man. True, but will the followers of Calvin maintain that he knew more of divinity
than Christ? We should think not.

CHAPTER VII.

GENERAL SUMMARY OF THE DOCTRINE.

WE have thus endeavoured to show that the doctrine of universal predestination--the foundation
of the Calvinistic theology--is not based upon the principle of the Divine wisdom, nor upon
Divine power, nor upon Divine foreknowledge, nor proved by the Scripture texts advanced on
its behalf. It is closely allied to Pantheism and the fate of the Stoics. It shakes hands with
Socialism, which maintains that man can have no merit or demerit, that he could not be otherwise
than he has been and is (Socialism, by Owen). It is the creed of the Mahometans. According
to them every action in a man's life has been written down in the preserved tablets, which
have been kept in the seventh heaven from all eternity. "No accident," saith the Koran, "happeneth
on the earth, or on your persons, but the same was entered into the book of our decrees before
we created it. Verily this is easy with God: and this is written lest ye immoderately grieve
for the good which escapeth you, or rejoice for that which happeneth unto you." They might
fall in battle, but it was so decreed, and at the resurrection they would appear with their
"wounds brilliant as vermilion, and odorous as musk." Since the primary principle of Calvinism
is a foundation principle of Pantheism, Socialism, Stoicism, and Mahometanism, Calvinists may
well question whether they have not been building upon the sand, instead of the eternal rock
of immutable truth. 19). It is the same still. God has provided a Saviour for all, and, therefore,
for each. It is the province of the Holy Spirit to testify respecting Christ,--that He is able
to save the very worst, and as willing as He is able. Each may choose to neglect this Saviour,
or reject Him by choosing some other ground; or may choose Him as his only refuge. This choice
has to be made by each man himself. No man can choose for another any more than he can eat
or drink for another. It belongs entirely to each to do this. To choose Him is to choose life.
To neglect or reject Him is to choose --death. Which will it be? The principle--viz., of choice,
runs through life. Your happiness here depends on it in numberless instances. It is recognised
everywhere in the Bible. Its exhortations summed up are expressed thus--"Turn ye, turn ye,
why will you die?" It thus rests with you, and with you only--after what God has done for you--whether
you shall live or die.

THE subjects of reprobation and election are so closely connected that they might be considered
in one chapter. Indeed, so close is the connection, that certain verses supposed to prove one
of them, are also adduced to prove the other, as--"Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated."
It is, however, stoutly maintained that election is scriptural, whilst reprobation is repudiated.
It is important to have clear ideas on the subject.

What, then, are we to understand by the doctrine of reprobation? The question is not whether
those dying in impenitency shall be subjected to suffering; for this is held by the opponents
of Calvinism as well as by Calvinists themselves. The question is this, Is it true that God
in a past eternity foreordained millions of men to endless misery, that to this end they were
born, and to this end they must go? John Calvin held that it was so. He says, "All are not
created on equal terms, but some are foreordained to eternal life, others to eternal damnation;
and accordingly as each has been created for one or other of these ends, we say that he has
been predestinated to life or to death." He says, again, "If we cannot assign any reason for
God's bestowing mercy on His people, but just that it so pleases Him, neither can we have any
reason for His reprobating others; but His will. When God is said to visit in mercy, or to
harden whom He will, men are reminded that they are not to seek for any cause beyond His will."
He says, again, "The human mind, when it hears this doctrine, cannot restrain its petulance,
but boils and rages, as if aroused by the sound of a trumpet. Many, professing a desire to
defend the Deity from an invidious charge, admit the doctrine of election, but deny that any
one is reprobated. This they do ignorantly and childishly, since there could be no election
without its opposite--reprobation. Those, therefore, whom God passes by He reprobates, and
that for no other cause but because He is pleased to exclude them from the inheritance which
He predestines to His children". (Inst., b. iii.). Zanchius held--"It was therefore the first
thing which God determined concerning them from eternity--namely, the ordination of certain
men to everlasting destruction" (Thesis de Reprob.). Elnathan Parr maintained, "If a man be
reprobated he shall certainly be damned, do what he can" (Grounds of Divinity). Maccovius says
that "God has indeed decreed to damn some men eternally, and on this account He has ordained
them to sin but each sins on his own account, and freely." To like purpose we might quote Maloratus,
Amandus Pollanus, John Norton, John Brown of Wamphray, Piscator, &c. (Vide Old Gospel, &c.,
Young, Edin.) Calvin and his followers did not mince the matter, as these extracts clearly show.

The Lambeth Articles expressed the same ideas as above. Article First says, "God hath from
eternity predestinated certain persons to life, and hath reprobated certain persons to death."
Article Third runs thus, "The predestinate are a predeterminate and certain number, which can
neither be lessened nor increased." Article Ninth has these words, "It is not in the will or
power of every man to be saved." The Lambeth Articles were drawn up as expressing the sense
of the Church of England, or, rather, a section of it. They were merely declaratory, and recommended
to the students of Cambridge, where a controversy had arisen regarding grace. They received
the sanction of the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop of London, and a few others.

The Synod of Dort, as intimated, was held in 1618, and had divines in it from Switzerland,
Hesse, the Palatinate, Bremen, England, and Scotland. Its first article runs thus: "That God
by an absolute decree had elected to salvation a very small number of men, without any regard
to their faith or obedience whatsoever; and secluded from saving grace all the rest of mankind,
and appointed them by the same decree to eternal damnation, without any regard to their infidelity
or impenitency" (Tom., p. 567). The Synods of Dort and Arles declared that if they knew the
reprobates, they would not, by Austin's advice, pray for them any more than they would for
the devils (Old Gospel, &c.) In this they were entirely consistent, whatever else they might be.

The Westminster Assembly met in London in 1643. They drew up the Confession of Faith and the
Catechisms. The Confession of Faith is the declared standard of doctrine of Presbyterians in
general in this country. It is proper to note this fact, because it has been denied that whilst
election is held reprobation is denied. They are both in the Confession.

From what we have thus brought forward it appears evident that, according to Calvin, reputed
Calvinistic divines, the Lambeth Articles, the Synod of Dort, and the Westminster Assembly,
there is a portion of the human family born under the decree of reprobation --born--we do not
like the expression, but it is the case--born to be damned. It is a harsh expression, but the
blame does not rest with us, but with those who hold the doctrine.

CHAPTER II.

THE BIBLE USAGE OF THE WORD REPROBATION.

THE word "reprobation," according to the Imperial Dictionary, means "to disallow," "not enduring
proof or trial," "disallowed," "rejected." Gesenius says the Hebrew word (maas) primarily means
to reject, and is used (a.) of God rejecting a people or an individual--Jer. vi. 30; vii. 29;
xiv. 19; 1 Samuel xv. 23; (b.) of men as rejecting God and His precepts--1 Samuel xv. 23. The
Greek word (adokimos) denotes, according to Robinson, "not approved," "rejected." In N. T.
Metaph., "worthy of condemnation"--"reprobate" --"useless"--"worthless." It occurs seven times
in the English translation; once in the Old Testament, and six times in the New. In none of
the instances, however, does it convey the idea of unconditionalism.

First passage.--In Jer. vi. 30, it is written: "Reprobate silver shall men call them, because
the Lord hath rejected them." But why were they rejected--reprobated? The answer is contained
in the context. Everything had been done to save them, and when all remedial agencies had failed,
they were declared to be rejected--reprobated. Here, again, we have reprobation; but then they
were given over to this state on the ground that they did not like to retain God in their knowledge.
The reprobation was therefore conditional, and not Calvinistic.

The third passage is in 2 Cor. xiii. 5: "Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ
is in you, except ye be reprobates." Grotius explains adokimoi--"reprobates," thus: "Christians
in name only and not in deed." Dr. Hamond as "steeped and hardened." Vorstius, "wicked, and
unfit for the faith." Dickson, "as unworthy of the name of Christian." Calvin, "unless you
by your crimes have cast off Christ" (Whitby, ad loc.) Doddridge paraphrases the passage thus:
"Are ye not sensible that Jesus Christ is dwelling in you by the sanctifying and transforming
influences of His spirit, unless ye are mere nominal Christians, and such as, whatever your
gifts be, will finally be disapproved and rejected as reprobate silver that will not stand
the touch?" The reprobation again implied a condition, and was non-Calvinistic.

The fourth passage is as follows:--"But I trust that ye shall know that we are not reprobates"
(2 Cor. xiii. 6). Barnes's paraphrase of the text is this: "Whatever may be the result of the
examination of yourselves, I trust (Gr., I hope) you will not find us false, and to be rejected;
that is, I trust you will find in me evidence that I am commissioned by the Lord Jesus to be
His apostle." There is nothing in the verse to favour unconditional reprobation.

The fifth passage runs thus: "Now I pray God that ye do no evil; not that we should appear
approved, but that ye should do that which is honest, though we be as reprobates" (2 Cor. xiii.
7). The meaning is plain enough. Paul desired that his readers should live pure and honourable
lives, although he and these associated with him should be rejected as bad silver is rejected--reputed
silver that cannot stand the tests. The verse gives no countenance to Calvinistic reprobation.
(2 Tim. iii. 8). But here again we have the moral state of those men brought before us--they
"resisted the truth," and were men of corrupt minds. They could not stand the test of examination,
and were rejected or disallowed as members of the Christian community. (Titus i. 16). The passage,
according to all the ancient commentators who write upon it, refers to the Jews (Whitby). Its
meaning is finely hit off by Doddridge, who; paraphrasing the words, says, "And with respect
to every good work disapproved and condemned when brought to the standard of God's word, though
they are the first to judge and condemn others." They had been tried in the balance and found
wanting. They were so utterly bad that in view of good works they were of no account. The reprobation
was conditional.

The Greek word (adokimos) is used in Heb. vi. 8, but is translated "rejected." It has reference
to ground. But why was the ground rejected, or reprobated? Unconditionally? Nay, but because
it yielded, instead of good fruit, "briers and thorns." The human mind is like a field, and
God is the husbandman. He uses various methods to produce the fruits of righteousness, and
when these fail, judgment is pronounced against the mind. And is not this just?

As far, therefore, as the word is concerned, there is not the most distant support given to
the doctrine of an eternal decree foredooming millions of men to hopeless misery. It is something
gained when we find this to be the case.

On what, then, does the doctrine rest, if not upon the use of the word? It is supposed to rest
upon the sovereignty of God, and certain passages of Scripture, although the word "reprobate"
is not found in them.

The term sovereign is from the French "sovereign," and that again from the Latin "supernus."
It means supreme in power, supreme to all others. That God occupies this position will not
be questioned by any one who believes in Him. The matter, therefore, is not one of sovereignty,
or whether God is 'the only' absolute Sovereign in the universe. This is admitted. The question
is this--what has God, in the exercise of His sovereignty, chosen to do? To adduce proofs in
its support is beside the point, since we hold it as firmly as our opponents in this controversy.
Nebuchadnezzar uttered a great truth when he said that God "doeth according to His will in
the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth." But what is His will? Is man governed
by the law of necessity as storms are, and as waters are? These creatures do as God desires;
is it so as regards man? The condemnation that each passes on himself is the best answer. Man
may transgress, but God by virtue of His absolute sovereignty has appointed the penalty, and
no one can reverse His decree.

CHAPTER III.

PROOF TEXTS FOR CALVINISTIC REPROBATION EXAMINED.

PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE.--There are certain passages of the Bible supposed to teach the doctrine
of Calvinistic reprobation, and it may be well to examine their meaning.

REPROBATION AND THE EVIL DAY.--In Proverbs xvi. 4, it is written: "The Lord hath made all things
for Himself, even the wicked for the day of evil." This passage is supposed to teach the doctrine
of Calvin, that some men have been reprobated from eternity, and come into existence with the
doom of death eternal on their brow. The first part of the verse presents no difficulty. It
brings before us the idea that God Himself is the great object of creation. It is proper that
this should be so. He is the greatest and the best of beings, and to have created for a lesser
object than Himself would not have been conformable to the dictate of the reason. It is the
second part of the verse which is supposed to teach the doctrine of eternal and unconditional
reprobation. Calvin's idea of the passage is that the wicked were created for "certain death
that His name (God's) may be glorified in their destruction." Let us suppose this to be the
meaning--what then? The word "glory" in Hebrew means "beauty," "honour," "adornment." All around
us lies the beautiful --the earth with her carpet of flowers--and the overarching skies --the
sun, the moon, and the stars, are all beautiful.

    "Oh, if so much beauty doth reveal
    Itself in every vein of life and motion,
    How beautiful must be the source itself,
    The ever bright one."--TEGNER.

But there is a moral beauty in God. It lies in the supreme moral excellence of His character;
in His holiness, in His love, in His truthfulness, in His patience, in His gentleness, in His
mercy. These attributes existing in God in the highest perfection, constitute the glory of
the Most High. "Beauty and kindness go together" saith the poet; but is there any kindness
in creating men for the purpose of making them miserable for ever? For ourselves we see no
beauty, no glory in this--but the reverse. We regard it as a libel upon the character of the
ever blessed God.

The meaning of the passage is simple enough. God hath appointed good for the righteous and
evil for the wicked. Though hand join in hand the wicked shall not go unpunished. One version
of the passage is, "Jehovah hath made all things to answer each other, even the day of calamities
for the wicked" (Davidson's Commentary). In Collins' Critical Commentary it is explained thus:
"For Himself or for its answer or purpose . . . . Sin and suffering answer to each other, are
indissolubly united" (ad loc). Thus interpreted, there is nothing in the passage to create
difficulty.

John xii. These things said Esaias when he saw His glory, and spake of Him." Calvin held that
John, "citing this prophecy (of Isaiah), declares that the Jews could not believe because this
curse of God was upon them." The first portion of the quotation is from Isaiah liii. 1, "who
hath believed our report?" &c. The question would imply that comparatively few had at first
responded to the Gospel invitation. (vers. 9, 10). The passage is quoted by Matthew (xiii.
14, 15). Dr. Randolph, as quoted by Horne, says on this passage, "This quotation is taken almost
verbatim from the Septuagint. In the Hebrew the sense is obscured by false pointing. If instead
of reading it in the imperative mood, we read it in the indicative mood, the sense will be,
'Ye shall hear, but not understand; and ye shall see, but not perceive. This people hath made
their heart fat, and hath made their ears heavy, and shut their eyes,' &c., which agrees in
sense with the evangelist and with the Septuagint, as well as with the Syriac and Arabic versions,
but not with the Latin Vulgate. We have the same quotation, word for word, in Acts xxviii.
26. Mark and Luke refer to the same prophecy, but quote it only in part." The Hebrew vowel
points which make the passage in Isaiah to be read in the imperative mood were only introduced
some 700 years after the birth of Christ (Gesenius).

Read in this light the passage gives no support to the doctrine sought to be fastened on it.
The oracle was originally applied to the Jews living in the time of Isaiah. They were then
exceedingly depraved; and the evangelist found that the words were applicable to the Jews living
in the time of Christ. Horne, writing on "accommodation," observes, "It was a familiar idiom
of the Jews when quoting the writings of the Old Testament to say that it might be fulfilled
which was spoken by such and such a prophet, not intending it to be understood that such a
particular passage in one of the sacred books was ever designed to be a real prediction of
what they were then relating, but signifying only that the words of the Old Testament might
be properly adopted to express their meaning and illustrate their ideas" (Intro., Vol. II.)
"The apostles," he adds, "who were Jews by birth, and spoke in the Jewish idiom, frequently
thus cite the Old Testament, intending no more by this mode of speaking than that the words
of such an ancient writer might with equal propriety be adopted to characterise any similar
occurrence which happened in their times. The formula, 'That it might be fulfilled,' does not
therefore differ in signification from the phrase, 'then was fulfilled,' applied in the following
citation in Matt. ii. 17, 18, from Jer. xxxi. 15, 17, to the massacre of the infants in Bethlehem.
They are a beautiful quotation, and not a prediction, of what then happened, and are therefore
applied to the massacre of the infants, according not to their original and historical meaning,
but according to Jewish phraseology (Vide Kitto, Art. Accom.) The principle of accommodation
clears away all difficulty. It is also in harmony with the context, as applied in John. Christ
exhorted those around Him to believe in the light, that they might be the children of the light.
But how could He exhort them to believe in the light, if He knew that the Divine Father had
rendered their doing so an impossibility? Would you ask a man to walk who had no legs? to look,
if he had no eyes? Underlying the exhortation to walk in the light lay the idea that they were
able to perform it. It has been said that although we have lost the power to obey, God has
not lost the power to command. Dr. Thomas Reid meets this notion thus: "Suppose a man employed
in the navy of his country, and, longing for the ease of a public hospital as an invalid, to
cut off his fingers so as to disable him from doing the duty of a sailor; he is guilty of a
great crime, but after he has been punished according to the demerit of his crime, will his
captain insist that he shall do the duty of a sailor? Will he command him to go aloft when
it is impossible for him to do it, and punish him as guilty of disobedience? Surely if there
be any such thing as justice and injustice, this would be unjust and wanton cruelty" (Hamilton's
Reid, p. 621).

Yet whilst there is no decree dooming men to hardness of heart or moral blindness, this state
may be reached. Many are progressing towards it, many are now in it. They have turned a deaf
ear to the cry of mercy, and are like the ground that has been often rained upon, but brought
out only briers and thorns. The difficulty of the return of such does not lie with God, but
in the habit of evil contracted and persisted in by the wrong-doers. God desires the salvation
of all men, and has made the way open for all by the propitiation of Christ.

THE EPISTLE TO THE ROMANS.--The apostle of the Gentiles is supposed to have clearly established,
in this epistle, the doctrine that some are born to be saved, and others born to be lost. The
ninth chapter especially has been the great storehouse of arguments for such as hold this view.
The strong-minded and the weak-kneed have all resorted thither. They entrench themselves behind
such passages as, "Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated;" "Hath not the potter power over
the clay?" and think, by repeating them, that they have settled the controversy.

