After lingering a while here, we went home to our inn or hotel. Now, these hotels in the small
towns of England, if this is any specimen, are delightful affairs for travellers, they are
so comfortable and home-like. Our snug little parlor was radiant with the light of the coal
grate; our table stood before it, with its bright silver, white cloth, and delicate china cups;
and then such a dish of mutton chops! My dear, we are all mortal, and emotions of the beautiful
and sublime tend especially to make one hungry. We, therefore, comforted ourselves over the
instability of earthly affairs, and the transitory nature of all human grandeur, by consolatory
remarks on the present whiteness of the bread, the sweetness of the butter; and as to the chops,
all declared, with one voice, that such mutton was a thing unknown in America. I moved an emendation,
except on the sea coast of Maine. We resolved to cherish the memory of our little hostess in
our heart of hearts, and as we gathered round the cheery grate, drying our cold feet, we voted
that poetry was a humbug, and damp, old, musty cathedrals a bore. Such are the inconsistencies
of human nature!

"Nevertheless," said I to S----, after dinner, "I am going back again to-night, to see that
abbey by moonlight. I intend to walk the whole figure while I am about it."

Just on the verge of twilight I stepped out, to see what the town afforded in the way of relics.
To say the truth, my eye had been caught by some cunning little tubs and pails in a window,
which I thought might be valued in the home department. I went into a shop, where an auld wife
soon appeared, who, in reply to my inquiries, told me, that the said little tubs and pails
were made of plum tree wood from Dryburgh Abbey, and, of course, partook of the sanctity of
relics. She and her husband seemed to be driving a thriving trade in the article, and either
plum trees must be very abundant at Dryburgh, or what there are must be gifted with that power
of self-multiplication which inheres in the wood of the true Cross. I bought them in blind
faith, however, suppressing all rationalistic doubts, as a good relic hunter should.

I went up into a little room where an elderly woman professed to have quite a collection of
the Melrose relics. Some years ago extensive restorations and repairs were made in the old
abbey, in which Walter Scott took a deep interest. At that time, when the scaffolding was up
for repairing the building, as I understood, Scott had the plaster casts made of different
parts, which he afterwards incorporated into his own dwelling at Abbotsford. I said to the
good woman that I had understood by Washington Irving's account, that Scott appropriated bona
fide fragments of the building, and alluded to the account which he gives of the little red
sandstone lion from Melrose. She repelled the idea with great energy, and said she had often
heard Sir Walter say, that he would not carry off a bit of the building as big as his thumb.
She showed me several plaster casts that she had in her possession, which were taken at this
time. There were several corbels there; one was the head of an old monk, and looked as if it
might have been a mask taken of his face the moment after death; the eyes were hollow and sunken,
the cheeks fallen in, the mouth lying helplessly open, showing one or two melancholy old stumps
of teeth. I wondered over this, whether it really was the fac-simile of some poor old Father
Ambrose, or Father Francis, whose disconsolate look, after his death agony, had so struck the
gloomy fancy of the artist as to lead him to immortalize him in a corbel, for a lasting admonition
to his fat worldly brethren; for if we may trust the old song, these monks of Melrose had rather
a suspicious reputation in the matter of worldly conformity. The impudent ballad says,--

  "O, the monks of Melrose, they made good, kail
    On Fridays, when they fasted;
  They never wanted beef or ale
    As long as their neighbors' lasted."

Naughty, roistering fellows! I thought I could perceive how this poor Father Francis had worn
his life out exhorting them to repentance, and given up the ghost at last in despair, and so
been made at once into a saint and a corbel.

There were fragments of tracery, of mouldings and cornices, and grotesque bits of architecture
there, which I would have given a good deal to be the possessor of. Stepping into a little
cottage hard by to speak to the guide about unlocking the gates, when we went out on our moonlight
excursion at midnight, I caught a glimpse, in an inner apartment, of a splendid, large, black
dog. I gave one exclamation and jump, and was into the room after him.

"Ah," said the old man, "that was just like Sir Walter; he always had an eye for a dog."

It gave me a kind of pain to think of him and his dogs, all lying in the dust together; and
yet it was pleasant to hear this little remark of him, as if it were made by those who had
often seen, and were fond of thinking of him. The dog's name was Coal, and he was black enough,
and remarkable enough, to make a figure in a story--a genuine Melrose Abbey dog. I should not
wonder if he were a descendant, in a remote degree, of the "mauthe doog," that supernatural
beast, which Scott commemorates in his notes. The least touch in the world of such blood in
his veins would be, of course, an appropriate circumstance in a dog belonging to an old ruined
abbey.

Well, I got home, and narrated my adventures to my friends, and showed them my reliquary purchases,
and declared my strengthening intention to make my ghostly visit by moonlight, if there was
any moon to be had that night, which was a doubtful possibility.

In the course of the evening came in Mr. ----, who had volunteered his services as guide and
attendant during the interesting operation.

"When does the moon rise?" said one.

"O, a little after eleven o'clock, I believe," said Mr. ----.

Some of the party gaped portentously.

"You know," said I, "Scott says we must see it by moonlight; it is one of the proprieties of
the place, as I understand."

"How exquisite that description is, of the effect of moonlight!" says another.

"I think it probable," says Mr. ----, dryly, "that Scott never saw it by moonlight himself.
He was a man of very regular habits, and seldom went out evenings."

The blank amazement with which this communication was received set S---- into an inextinguishable
fit of laughter.

"But do you really believe he never saw it?" said I, rather crestfallen.

"Well," said the gentleman, "I have heard him charged with never having seen it, and he never
denied it."

Knowing that Scott really was as practical a man as Dr. Franklin, and as little disposed to
poetic extravagances, and an exceedingly sensible, family kind of person, I thought very probably
this might be true, unless he had seen it some time in his early youth. Most likely good Mrs.
Scott never would have let him commit the impropriety that we were about to, and run the risk
of catching the rheumatism by going out to see how an old abbey looked at twelve o'clock at night.

We waited for the moon to rise, and of course it did not rise; nothing ever does when it is
waited for. We went to one window, and went to another; half past eleven came, and no moon.
"Let us give it up," said I, feeling rather foolish. However, we agreed to wait another quarter
of an hour, and finally Mr. ---- announced that the moon was risen; the only reason we did
not see it was, because it was behind the Eildon Hills. So we voted to consider her risen at
any rate, and started out in the dark, threading the narrow streets of the village with the
comforting reflection that we were doing what Sir Walter would think rather a silly thing.
When we got out before the abbey there was enough light behind the Eildon Hills to throw their
three shadowy cones out distinctly to view, and to touch with a gloaming, uncertain ray the
ivy-clad walls. As we stood before the abbey, the guide fumbling with his keys, and finally
heard the old lock clash as the door slowly opened to admit us, I felt a little shiver of the
ghostly come over me, just enough to make it agreeable.

In the daytime we had criticized Walter Scott's moonlight description in the lines which say,--

  "The distant Tweed is heard, to rave,
  And the owlet to hoot o'er the dead man's grave."

"We hear nothing of the Tweed, at any rate," said we; "that must be a poetic license." But
now at midnight, as we walked silently through the mouldering aisles, the brawl of the Tweed
was so distinctly heard that it seemed as if it was close by the old, lonely pile; nor can
any term describe the sound more exactly than the word "rave," which the poet has chosen. It
was the precise accuracy of this little item of description which made me feel as if Scott
must have been here in the night. I walked up into the old chancel, and sat down where William
of Deloraine and the monk sat, on the Scottish monarch's tomb, and thought over the words

  "Strange sounds along the chancel passed,
  And banners wave without a blast;
  Still spake the monk when the bell tolled one."

And while we were there the bell tolled twelve.

And then we went to Michael Scott's grave, and we looked through the east oriel, with its

  "Slender shafts of shapely stone,
  By foliage tracery combined."

The fanciful outlines showed all the more distinctly for the entire darkness within, and the
gloaming moonlight without. The tall arches seemed higher in their dimness, and vaster than
they did in the daytime. "Hark!" said I; "what's that?" as we heard a rustling and flutter
of wings in the ivy branches over our heads. Only a couple of rooks, whose antiquarian slumbers
were disturbed by the unwonted noise there at midnight, and who rose and flew away, rattling
down some fragments of the ruin as they went. It was somewhat odd, but I could not help fancying,
what if these strange, goblin rooks were the spirits of old monks coming back to nestle and
brood among their ancient cloisters! Rooks are a ghostly sort of bird. I think they were made
on purpose to live in old yew trees and ivy, as much as yew trees and ivy were to grow round
old churches and abbeys. If we once could get inside of a rook's skull, to find out what he
is thinking of, I'll warrant that we should know a great deal more about these old buildings
than we do now. I should not wonder if there were long traditionary histories handed down from
one generation of rooks to another, and that these are what they are talking about when we
think they are only chattering. I imagine I see the whole black fraternity the next day, sitting,
one on a gargoyle, one on a buttress, another on a shrine, gossiping over the event of our
nightly visit.

We walked up and down the long aisles, and groped out into the cloisters; and then I thought,
to get the full ghostliness of the thing, we would go up the old, ruined staircase into the
long galleries, that

  "Midway thread the abbey wall."

We got about half way up, when there came into our faces one of those sudden, passionate puffs
of mist and rain which Scotch clouds seem to have the faculty of getting up at a minute's notice.
Whish! came the wind in our faces, like the rustling of a whole army of spirits down the staircase;
whereat we all tumbled back promiscuously on to each other, and concluded we would not go up.
In fact we had done the thing, and so we went home; and I dreamed of arches, and corbels, and
gargoyles all night. And so, farewell to Melrose Abbey.

LETTER IX.

EDINBURGH, April.

My DEAR SISTER:--

Mr. S. and C---- returned from their trip to Glasgow much delighted with the prospects indicated
by the results of the temperance meetings they attended there.

They were present at the meeting of the Scottish Temperance League, in an audience of about
four thousand people. The reports were encouraging, and the feeling enthusiastic. One hundred
and eighty ministers are on the list of the League, forming a nucleus of able, talented, and
determined operators. It is the intention to make a movement for a law which shall secure to
Scotland some of the benefits of the Maine law.

It appears to me that on the questions of temperance and antislavery, the religious communities
of the two countries are in a situation mutually to benefit each other. Our church and ministry
have been through a long struggle and warfare on this temperance question, in which a very
valuable experience has been, elaborated. The religious people of Great Britain, on the contrary,
have led on to a successful result a great antislavery experiment, wherein their experience
and success can be equally beneficial and encouraging to us.

The day after we returned from Melrose we spent in resting and riding about, as we had two
engagements in the evening--one at a party at the house of Mr. Douglas, of Cavers, and the
other at a public temperance soirée. Mr. Douglas is the author of several works which have
excited attention; but perhaps you will remember him best by his treatise on the Advancement
of Society in Religion and Knowledge. He is what is called here a "laird," a man of good family,
a large landed proprietor, a zealous reformer, and a very devout man.

We went early to spend a short time with the family. I was a little surprised, as I entered
the hall, to find myself in the midst of a large circle of well-dressed men and women, who
stood apparently waiting to receive us, and who bowed, courtesied, and smiled as we came in.
Mrs. D. apologized to me afterwards, saying that these were the servants of the family, that
they were exceedingly anxious to see me, and so she had allowed them all to come into the hall.
They were so respectable in their appearance, and so neatly dressed, that I might almost have
mistaken them for visitors.

We had a very pleasant hour or two with the family, which I enjoyed exceedingly. Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas were full of the most considerate kindness, and some of the daughters had intimate
acquaintances in America. I enjoy these little glimpses into family circles more than any thing
else; there is no warmth like fireside warmth.

In the evening the rooms were filled. I should think all the clergymen of Edinburgh must have
been there, for I was introduced to ministers without number. The Scotch have a good many little
ways that are like ours; they call their clergy ministers, as we do. There were many persons
from ancient families, distinguished in Scottish history both for rank and piety; among others,
Lady Carstairs, Sir Henry Moncrief and lady. There was also the Countess of Gainsborough, one
of the ladies of the queen's household, a very beautiful woman with charming manners, reminding
one of the line of Pope--

  "Graceful ease, and sweetness void of pride."

I was introduced to Dr. John Brown, who is reckoned one of the best exegetial scholars in Europe.
He is small of stature, sprightly, and pleasant in manners, but with a high bald forehead and
snow-white hair.

There were also many members of the faculty of the university. I talked a little with Dr. Guthrie,
whom I described in a former letter. I told him that one thing which had been an agreeable
disappointment to me was, the apparent cordiality between the members of the Free and the National
church. He seemed to think that the wounds of the old conflict were, to a great extent, healed.
He spoke in high terms of the Duchess of Sutherland, her affability, kindness, and considerateness
to the poor. I forget from whom I received the anecdote, but somebody told me this of her--that,
one of her servants having lost a relative, she had left a party where she was engaged, and
gone in the plainest attire and quietest way to attend the funeral. It was remarked upon as
showing her considerateness for the feelings of those in inferior positions.

About nine o'clock we left to go to the temperance soirée. It was in the same place, and conducted
in the same way, with the others which I have described. The lord provost presided, and one
or two of the working men who spoke in the former soirée made speeches, and very good ones
too. The meeting was greatly enlivened by the presence and speech of the jovial Lord Conynghame,
who amused us all by the gallant manner in which he expressed the warmth of Scottish welcome
towards "our American guests." If it had been in the old times of Scottish hospitality, he
said, he should have proposed a bumper three times three; but as that could not be done in
a temperance meeting, he proposed three cheers, in which he led off with a hearty good will.

All that the Scotch people need now for the prosperity of their country is the temperance reformation;
and undoubtedly they will have it. They have good sense and strength of mind enough to work
out whatever they choose.

We went home tired enough.

Lady Gainsborough is the daughter of the Earl of Roden, who is an Irish lord of the very strictest
Calvinistic persuasion: He is a devout man, and for many years, we were told, maintained a
Calvinistic church of the English establishment in Paris. While Mr. S. talked with Lord Gainsborough,
I talked with his lady, and Lady Roden, who was present. Lady Gainsborough inquired about our
schools for the poor, and how they were conducted. I reflected a moment, and then answered
that we had no schools for the poor as such, but the common school was open alike to all classes.[K]

In England and Scotland, in all classes, from the queen downward, no movements are so popular
as those for the education and elevation of the poor; one is seldom in company without hearing
the conversation turn upon them.

The conversation generally turned upon the condition of servants in America. I said that one
of the principal difficulties in American housekeeping proceeded from the fact that there were
so many other openings of profit that very few were found willing to assume the position of
the servant, except as a temporary expedient; in fact, that the whole idea of service was radically
different, it being a mere temporary contract to render certain services, not differing essentially
from the contract of the mechanic or tradesman. The ladies said they thought there could be
no family feeling among servants if that was the case; and I replied that, generally speaking,
there was none; that old and attached family servants in the free states were rare exceptions.

This, I know, must look, to persons in old countries, like a hard and discouraging feature
of democracy. I regard it, however, as only a temporary difficulty. Many institutions among
us are in a transition state. Gradually the whole subject of the relations of labor and the
industrial callings will assume a new form in America, and though we shall never be able to
command the kind of service secured in aristocratic countries, yet we shall have that which
will be as faithful and efficient. If domestic service can be made as pleasant, profitable,
and respectable as any of the industrial callings, it will soon become as permanent.

Our next visit was to Sir William Hamilton and lady. Sir William is the able successor of Dugald
Stewart and Dr. Brown in the chair of intellectual philosophy. His writings have had a wide
circulation in America. He is a man of noble presence, though we were sorry to see that he
was suffering from ill health. It seems to me that Scotland bears that relation to England,
with regard to metaphysical inquiry, that New England does to the rest of the United States.
If one counts over the names of distinguished metaphysicians, the Scotch, as compared with
the English, number three to one--Reid, Stewart, Brown, all Scotchmen.

Sir William still writes and lectures. He and Mr. S. were soon discoursing on German, English,
Scotch, and American metaphysics, while I was talking with Lady Hamilton and her daughters.
After we came away Mr. S. said, that no man living had so thoroughly understood and analyzed
the German philosophy. He said that Sir William spoke of a call which he had received from
Professor Park, of Andover, and expressed himself in high terms of his metaphysical powers.

After that we went to call on George Combe, the physiologist. We found him and Mrs. Combe in
a pleasant, sunny parlor, where, among other objects of artistic interest, we saw a very fine
engraving of Mrs. Siddons. I was not aware until after leaving that Mrs. Combe is her daughter.
Mr. Combe, though somewhat advanced, seems full of life and animation, and conversed with a
great deal of warmth and interest on America, where he made a tour some years since. Like other
men in Europe who sympathize in our progress, he was sanguine in the hope that the downfall
of slavery must come at no distant date.

After a pleasant chat here we came home; and after an interval of rest the carriage was at
the door for Hawthornden. It is about seven miles out from Edinburgh. It is a most romantic
spot, on the banks of the River Esk, now the seat of Mr. James Walker Drummond. Scott has sung
in the ballad of the Gray Brother,--

  Sweet are the paths, O, passing sweet,
    By Esk's fair streams that run,
  O'er airy steep, through copse-woods deep,
    Impervious to the sun.

  Who knows not Melville's beechy grove,
    And Roslin's rocky glen,
  Dalkeith, which all the virtues love,
    And classic Hawthornden?

"Melville's beechy grove" is an allusion to the grounds of Lord Melville, through which we
drove on our way. The beech trees here are magnificent; fully equal to any trees of the sort
which I have seen in our American forests, and they were in full leaf. They do not grow so
high, but have more breadth and a wider sweep of branches; on the whole they are well worthy
of a place in song.

I know in my childhood I often used to wish that I could live in a ruined castle; and this
Hawthornden would be the very beau ideal of one as a romantic dwelling-place. It is an old
castellated house, perched on the airy verge of a precipice, directly over the beautiful River
Esk, looking down one of the most romantic glens in Scotland. Part of it is in ruins, and,
hung with wreaths of ivy, it seems to stand just to look picturesque. The house itself, with
its quaint, high gables, and gray, antique walls, appears old enough to take you back to the
times of William Wallace. It is situated within an hour's walk of Roslin Castle and Chapel,
one of the most beautiful and poetic architectural remains in Scotland.

Our drive to the place was charming. It was a showery day; but every few moments the sun blinked
out, smiling through the falling rain, and making the wet leaves glitter, and the raindrops
wink at each other in the most sociable manner possible. Arrived at the house, our friend,
Miss S----, took us into a beautiful parlor overhanging the glen, each window of which commanded
a picture better than was ever made on canvas.

We had a little chat with Lady Drummond, and then we went down to examine the caverns,--for
there are caverns under the house, with long galleries and passages running from them through
the rocks, some way down the river. Several apartments are hollowed out here in the rock on
which the house is founded, which they told us belonged to Bruce; the tradition being, that
he was hidden here for some months. There was his bed room, dining room, sitting room, and
a very curious apartment where the walls were all honeycombed into little partitions, which
they called his library, these little partitions being his book shelves. There are small loophole
windows in these apartments, where you can look up and down the glen, and enjoy a magnificent
prospect. For my part, I thought if I were Bruce, sitting there with a book in my lap, listening
to the gentle brawl of the Esk, looking up and down the glen, watching the shaking raindrops
on the oaks, the birches and beeches, I should have thought that was better than fighting,
and that my pleasant little cave was as good an arbor on the Hill Difficulty as ever mortal
man enjoyed.

There is a ponderous old two-handed sword kept here, said to have belonged to Sir William Wallace.
It is considerably shorter than it was originally, but, resting on its point, it reached to
the chin of a good six foot gentleman of our party. The handle is made of the horn of a sea-horse,
(if you know what that is,) and has a heavy iron ball at the end. It must altogether have weighed
some ten or twelve pounds. Think of a man hewing away on men with this!

There is a well in this cavern, down which we were directed to look and observe a hole in the
side; this we were told was the entrance to another set of caverns and chambers under those
in which we were, and to passages which extended down and opened out into the valley. In the
olden days the approach to these caverns was not through the house, but through the side of
a deep well sunk in the court yard, which communicates through a subterranean passage with
this well. Those seeking entrance were let down by a windlass into the well in the court yard,
and drawn up by a windlass into this cavern. There was no such accommodation at present, but
we were told some enterprising tourists had explored the lower caverns. Pleasant kind of times
those old days must have been, when houses had to be built like a rabbit burrow, with all these
accommodations for concealment and escape.

After exploring the caverns we came up into the parlors again, and Miss S. showed me a Scottish
album, in which were all sorts of sketches, memorials, autographs, and other such matters.
What interested me more, she was making a collection of Scottish ballads, words and tunes.
I told her that I had noticed, since I had been in Scotland, that the young ladies seemed to
take very little interest in the national Scotch airs, and were all devoted to Italian; moreover,
that the Scotch ballads and memories, which so interested me, seemed to have very little interest
for people generally in Scotland. Miss S. was warm enough in her zeal to make up a considerable
account, and so we got on well together.

While we were sitting, chatting, two young ladies came in, who had walked up the glen despite
the showery day. They were protected by good, substantial outer garments, of a kind of shag
or plush, and so did not fear the rain. I wanted to walk down to Roslin Castle, but the party
told me there would not be time this afternoon, as we should have to return at a certain hour.
I should not have been reconciled to this, had not another excursion been proposed for the
purpose of exploring Roslin.

However, I determined to go a little way down the glen, and get a distant view of it, and my
fair friends, the young ladies, offered to accompany me; so off we started down the winding
paths, which were cut among the banks overhanging the Esk. The ground was starred over with
patches of pale-yellow primroses, and for the first time I saw the heather, spreading over
rocks and matting itself around the roots of trees. My companions, to whom it was the commonest
thing in the world, could hardly appreciate the delight which I felt in looking at it; it was
not in flower; I believe it does not blossom till some time in July or August. We have often
seen it in greenhouses, and it is so hardy that it is singular it will not grow wild in America.

We walked, ran, and scrambled to an eminence which commanded a view of Roslin Chapel, the only
view, I fear, which will ever gladden my eyes, for the promised expedition to it dissolved
itself into mist. When on the hill top, so that I could see the chapel at a distance, I stood
thinking over the ballad of Harold, in the Lay of the Last Minstrel, and the fate of the lovely
Rosabel, and saying over to myself the last verses of the ballad:--

  "O'er Roslin, all that dreary night,
    A wondrous blaze was seen to gleam;
  'Twas broader than the watchfire's light,
    And redder than the bright moonbeam.

  It glared on Roslin's castled rock,
    It ruddied, all the copsewood glen;
  'Twas seen from Deyden's groves of oak,
    And seen from cavern'd Hawthornden.

  Seemed all on fire that chapel proud,
    Where Roslin's chiefs uncoffined lie,
  Each baron, for a sable shroud,
    Sheathed in his iron panoply.

  Seemed all on fire within, around,
    Deep sacristy and altar's pale;
  Shone every pillar foliage-bound,
    And glimmered, all the dead men's mail.

  Blazed battlement and pinnet high,
    Blazed every rose-carved buttress fair,
  So will they blaze, when fate is nigh
    The lordly line of high St. Clair.

  There are twenty of Roslin's barons bold
    Lie buried, within that proud chapelle;
  Each one the holy vault doth hold;
    But the sea holds lovely Rosabelle!

  And each St. Clair was buried there,
    With candle, with book, and with knell;
  But the sea caves rung, and the wild winds sung,
    The dirge of lovely Rosabelle."

Every buttress, battlement, and projection of the exterior is incrusted with the most elaborate
floral and leafy carving, among which the rose is often repeated, from its suggesting, by similarity
of sound, Roslin.

Again, this line--

  "Shone every pillar foliage-bound"--

suggests to the mind the profusion and elaborateness of the leafy decorations in the inside.
Among these, one pillar, garlanded with spiral wreaths of carved foliage, is called the "Apprentice's
Pillar;" the tradition being, that while the master was gone to Rome to get some further hints
on executing the plan, a precocious young mason, whom he left at home, completed it in his
absence. The master builder summarily knocked him on the head, as a warning to all progressive
young men not to grow wiser than their teachers. Tradition points out the heads of the master
and workmen among the corbels. So you see, whereas in old Greek times people used to point
out their celebrities among the stars, and gave a defunct hero a place in the constellations,
in the middle ages he only got a place among the corbels.

I am increasingly sorry that I was beguiled out of my personal examination of this chapel,
since I have seen the plates of it in my Baronial Sketches. It is the rival of Melrose, but
more elaborate; in fact, it is a perfect cataract of architectural vivacity and ingenuity,
as defiant of any rules of criticism and art as the leaf-embowered arcades and arches of our
American forest cathedrals. From the comparison of the plates of the engravings, I should judge
there was less delicacy of taste, and more exuberance of invention, than in Melrose. One old
prosaic commentator on it says that it is quite remarkable that there are no two cuts in it
precisely alike; each buttress, window, and pillar is unique, though with such a general resemblance
to each other as to deceive the eye.

It was built in 1446, by William St. Clair, who was Prince of Orkney, Duke of Oldenburgh, Lord
of Roslin, Earl of Caithness and Strathearn, and so on ad infinitum. He was called the "Seemly
St. Clair," from his noble deportment and elegant manners; resided in royal splendor at this
Castle of Roslin, and kept a court there as Prince of Orkney. His table was served with vessels
of gold and silver, and he had one lord for his master of household, one for his cup bearer,
and one for his carver. His princess, Elizabeth Douglas, was served by seventy-five gentlewomen,
fifty-three of whom were daughters of noblemen, and they were attended in all their excursions
by a retinue of two hundred gentlemen.

These very woods and streams, which now hear nothing but the murmurs of the Esk, were all alive
with the bustle of a court in those days.

The castle was now distinctly visible; it stands on an insulated rock, two hundred and twenty
yards from the chapel. It has under it a set of excavations and caverns almost equally curious
with those of Hawthornden; there are still some tolerably preserved rooms in it, and Mrs. W.
informed me that they had once rented these rooms for a summer residence. What a delightful
idea! The barons of Roslin were all buried under this Chapel, in their armor, as Scott describes
in the poem. And as this family were altogether more than common folks, it is perfectly credible
that on the death of one of them a miraculous light should illuminate the castle, chapel, and
whole neighborhood.

It appears, by certain ancient documents, that this high and mighty house of St. Clair were
in a particular manner patrons of the masonic craft. It is known that the trade of masonry
was then in the hands of a secret and mysterious order, from whom probably our modern masons
have descended.

The St. Clair family, it appears, were at the head of this order, with power to appoint officers
and places of meeting, to punish transgressors, and otherwise to have the superintendence of
all their affairs. This fact may account for such a perfect Geyser of architectural ingenuity
as has been poured out upon their family chapel, which was designed for a chef-d'oeuvre, a
concentration of the best that could be done to the honor of their patron's family. The documents
which authenticate this statement are described in Billings's Baronial Antiquities. So much
for "the lordly line of high St. Clair."

When we came back to the house, and after taking coffee in the drawing room, Miss S. took me
over the interior, a most delightful place, full of all sorts of out-of-the-way snuggeries,
and comfortable corners, and poetic irregularities. There she showed me a picture of one of
the early ancestors of the family, the poet Drummond, hanging in a room, which tradition has
assigned to him. It represents a man with a dark, Spanish-looking face, with the broad Elizabethan
ruff, earnest, melancholy eyes, and an air half cavalier, half poet, bringing to mind the chivalrous,
graceful, fastidious bard, accomplished scholar, and courtier of his time, the devout believer
in the divine right of kings, and of the immunities and privileges of the upper class generally.
This Drummond, it seems, was early engaged to a fair young lady, whose death rendered his beautiful
retreat of Hawthornden insupportable to him, and of course, like other persons of romance,
he sought refuge in foreign travel, went abroad, and remained eight years. Afterwards he came
back, married, and lived here for some time.

Among other traditions of the place, it is said that Ben Jonson once walked all the way from
London to visit the poet in this retreat; and a tree is still shown on the grounds under which
they are said to have met. It seems that Ben's habits were rather too noisy and convivial to
meet altogether the taste of his fastidious and aristocratic host; and so he had his own thoughts
of him, which, being written down in a diary, were published by some indiscreet executor, after
they were both dead.

We were shown an old, original edition of the poems. I must confess I never read them. Since
I have seen the material the poet and novelist has on this ground, all I wonder at is, that
there have not been a thousand poets to one. I should have thought they would have been as
plenty as the mavis and merle, and sprouting out every where, like the primroses and heather bells.

Our American literature is unfortunate in this respect--that our nation never had any childhood,
our day never had any dawn; so we have very little traditionary lore to work over.

We came home about five o'clock, and had some company in the evening. Some time to-day I had
a little chat with Mrs. W. on the Quakers. She is a cultivated and thoughtful woman, and seemed
to take quite impartial views, and did not consider her own sect as by any means the only form
of Christianity, but maintained--what every sensible person must grant, I think--that it has
had an important mission in society, even in its peculiarities. I inferred from her conversation
that the system of plain dress, maintained with the nicety which they always use, is by no
means a saving in a pecuniary point of view. She stated that one young friend, who had been
brought up in this persuasion, gave it as her reason for not adopting its peculiar dress, that
she could not afford it; that is to say, that for a given sum of money she could make a more
creditable appearance were she allowed the range of form, shape, and trimming, which the ordinary
style of dressing permits.

I think almost any lady, who knows the magical value of bits of trimming, and bows of ribbon
judiciously adjusted in critical locations, of inserting, edging, and embroidery, considered
as economic arts, must acknowledge that there is some force in the young lady's opinion. Nevertheless
the Doric simplicity of a Quaker lady's dress, who is in circumstances to choose her material,
has a peculiar charm. As at present advised, the Quaker ladies whom I have seen very judiciously
adhere to the spirit of plain attire, without troubling themselves to maintain the exact letter.
For instance, a plain straw cottage, with its white satin ribbon, is sometimes allowed to take
the place of the close silk bonnet of Fox's day.

For my part, while I reverence the pious and unworldly spirit which dictated the peculiar forms
of the Quaker sect, I look for a higher development of religion still, when all the beautiful
artistic faculties of the soul being wholly sanctified and offered up to God, we shall no longer
shun beauty in any of its forms, either in dress or household adornment, as a temptation, but
rather offer it up as a sacrifice to Him who has set us the example, by making every thing
beautiful in its season.

As to art and letters, I find many of my Quaker friends sympathizing in those judicious views
which were taken by the society of Friends in Philadelphia, when Benjamin West developed a
talent for painting, regarding such talent as an indication of the will of Him who had bestowed
it. So I find many of them taking pleasure in the poetry of Scott, Longfellow, and Whittier,
as developments of his wisdom who gives to the human soul its different faculties and inspirations.

More delightful society than a cultivated Quaker family cannot be found: the truthfulness,
genuineness, and simplicity of character, albeit not wanting, at proper times, a shrewd dash
of worldly wisdom, are very refreshing.

Mrs. W. and I went to the studio of Hervey, the Scotch artist. Both he and his wife received
us with great kindness. I saw there his Covenanters celebrating the Lord's Supper--a picture
which I could not look at critically on account of the tears which kept blinding my eyes. It
represents a bleak hollow of a mountain side, where a few trembling old men and women, a few
young girls and children, with one or two young men, are grouped together, in that moment of
hushed prayerful repose which precedes the breaking of the sacramental bread. There is something
touching always about that worn, weary look of rest and comfort with which a sick child lies
down on a mother's bosom, and like this is the expression with which these hunted fugitives
nestle themselves beneath the shadow of their Redeemer; mothers who had seen their sons "tortured,
not accepting deliverance"--wives who had seen the blood of their husbands poured out on their
doorstone--children with no father but God--and bereaved old men, from whom, every child had
been rent--all gathering for comfort round the cross of a suffering Lord. In such hours they
found strength to suffer, and to say to every allurement of worldly sense and pleasure as the
drowning Margaret Wilson said to the tempters in her hour of martyrdom, "I am Christ's child--let
me go."

Another most touching picture of Hervey's commemorates a later scene of Scottish devotion and
martyr endurance scarcely below that of the days of the Covenant. It is called Leaving the Manse.

We in America all felt to our heart's core a sympathy with that high endurance which led so
many Scottish ministers to forsake their churches, their salaries, the happy homes where their
children were born and their days passed, rather than violate a principle.

This picture is a monument of this struggle. There rises the manse overgrown with its flowering
vines, the image of a lovely, peaceful home. The minister's wife, a pale, lovely creature,
is just locking the door, out of which her husband and family have passed--leaving it forever.
The husband and father is supporting on his arm an aged, feeble mother, and the weeping children
are gathering sorrowfully round him, each bearing away some memorial of their home; one has
the bird cage. But the unequalled look of high, unshaken patience, of heroic faith, and love
which seems to spread its light over every face, is what I cannot paint. The painter told me
that the faces were portraits, and the scene by no means imaginary.

But did not these sacrifices bring with them, even in their bitterness, a joy the world knoweth
not? Yes, they did. I know it full well, not vainly did Christ say, There is no man that hath
left houses or lands for my sake and the gospel's but he shall receive manifold more in this life.

Mr. Hervey kindly gave me the engraving of his Covenanters' Sacrament, which I shall keep as
a memento of him and of Scotland.

His style of painting is forcible and individual. He showed us the studies that he has taken
with his palette and brushes out on the mountains and moors of Scotland, painting moss, and
stone, and brook, just as it is. This is the way to be a national painter.

One pleasant evening, not long before we left Edinburgh, C., S., and I walked out for a quiet
stroll. We went through the Grass Market, where so many defenders of the Covenant have suffered,
and turned into the churchyard of the Gray Friars; a gray, old Gothic building, with multitudes
of graves around it. Here we saw the tombs of Allan Ramsay and many other distinguished characters.
The grim, uncouth sculpture on the old graves, and the quaint epitaphs, interested me much;
but I was most moved by coming quite unexpectedly on an ivy-grown slab, in the wall, commemorating
the martyrs of the Covenant. The inscription struck me so much, that I got C---- to copy it
in his memorandum book.

  "Halt, passenger! take heed what you do see.
  Here lies interred the dust of those who stood
  'Gainst perjury, resisting unto blood,
  Adhering to the Covenant, and laws
  Establishing the same; which was the cause
  Their lives were sacrificed unto the last
  Of prelatists abjured, though here their dust
  Lies mixed with murderers and other crew
  Whom justice justly did to death pursue;
  But as for them, no cause was to be found
  Worthy of death, but only they were found
  Constant and steadfast, witnessing
  For the prerogatives of Christ their King;
  Which truths were sealed, by famous Guthrie's head,
  And all along to Mr. Renwick's blood
  They did endure the wrath of enemies,
  Reproaches, torments, deaths, and injuries;
  But yet they're those who from such troubles came
  And triumph now in glory with the Lamb.

     "From May 27, 1681, when the Marquis of Argyle was beheaded, to
     February 17, 1688, when James Renwick suffered, there were some
     eighteen thousand one way or other murdered, of whom were executed
     at Edinburgh about one hundred noblemen, ministers, and gentlemen,
     and others, noble martyrs for Christ."

Despite the roughness of the verse, there is a thrilling power in these lines. People in gilded
houses, on silken couches, at ease among books, and friends, and literary pastimes, may sneer
at the Covenanters; it is much easier to sneer than to die for truth and right, as they died.
Whether they were right in all respects is nothing to the purpose; but it is to the purpose
that in a crisis of their country's history they upheld a great principle vital to her existence.
Had not these men held up the heart of Scotland, and kept alive the fire of liberty on her
altars, the very literature which has been used to defame them could not have had its existence.
The very literary celebrity of Scotland has grown out of their grave; for a vigorous and original
literature is impossible, except to a strong, free, self-respecting people. The literature
of a people must spring from the sense of its nationality; and nationality is impossible without
self-respect, and self-respect is impossible without liberty.

It is one of the trials of our mortal state, one of the disciplines of our virtue, that the
world's benefactors and reformers are so often without form or comeliness. The very force necessary
to sustain the conflict makes them appear unlovely; they "tread the wine press alone, and of
the people there is none with them." The shrieks, and groans, and agonies of men wrestling
in mortal combat are often not graceful or gracious; but the comments that the children of
the Puritans, and the children of the Covenanters, make on the ungraceful and severe elements
which marked the struggles of their great fathers, are as ill-timed as if a son, whom a mother
had just borne from a burning dwelling, should criticize the shrieks with which she sought
him, and point out to ridicule the dishevelled hair and singed garments which show how she
struggled for his life. But these are they which are "sown in weakness, but raised in power;
which are sown in dishonor, but raised in glory:" even in this world they will have their judgment
day, and their names which went down in the dust like a gallant banner trodden in the mire,
shall rise again all glorious in the sight of nations.

The evening sky, glowing red, threw out the bold outline of the castle, and the quaint old
edifices as they seemed to look down on us silently from their rocky heights, and the figure
of Salisbury Crags marked itself against the red sky like a couchant lion.

The time of our sojourn in Scotland had drawn towards its close. Though feeble in health, this
visit to me has been full of enjoyment; full of lofty, but sad memories; full of sympathies
and inspirations. I think there is no nobler land, and I pray God that the old seed here sown
in blood and tears may never be rooted out of Scotland.

Well in the rail car, we went whirling along by Preston Pans, where was fought the celebrated
battle in which Colonel Gardiner was killed; by Dunbar, where Cromwell told his army to "trust
in God and keep their powder dry;" through Berwick-on-the-Tweed and Newcastle-on-Tyne; by the
old towers and gates of York, with its splendid cathedral; getting a view of Durham Cathedral
in the distance.

The country between Berwick and Newcastle is one of the greatest manufacturing districts of
England, and for smoke, smut, and gloom, Pittsburg and Wheeling bear no comparison to it. The
English sky, always paler and cooler in its tints than ours, here seems to be turned into a
leaden canopy; tall chimneys belch forth gloom and confusion; houses, factories, fences, even
trees and grass, look grim and sooty.

It is true that people with immense wealth can live in such regions in cleanliness and elegance;
but how must it be with the poor? I know of no one circumstance more unfavorable to moral purity
than the necessity of being physically dirty. Our nature is so intensely symbolical, that where
the outward sign of defilement becomes habitual, the inner is too apt to correspond. I am quite
sure that before there can be a universal millennium, trade must be pursued in such a way as
to enable the working classes to realize something of beauty and purity in the circumstances
of their outward life.

I have heard there is a law before the British Parliament, whose operation is designed to purify
the air of England by introducing chimneys which shall consume all the sooty particles which
now float about, obscuring the air and carrying defilement with them. May that day be hastened!

At Newcastle-on-Tyne and some other places various friends came out to meet us, some of whom
presented us with most splendid bouquets of hothouse flowers. This region has been the seat
of some of the most zealous and efficient antislavery operations in England. You do not know
how snug we felt to think we had done it so nicely.

The carriage soon drove in upon a gravel walk, winding among turf, flowers, and shrubs, where
we found opening to us another home as warm and kindly as the one we had just left, made doubly
interesting by the idea of entire privacy and seclusion.

After retiring to our chambers to repair the ravages of travel, we united in the pleasant supper
room, where the table was laid before a bright coal fire: no unimportant feature this fire,
I can assure you, in a raw cloudy evening. A glass door from the supper room opened into a
conservatory, brilliant with pink and yellow azalias, golden calceolarias, and a profusion
of other beauties, whose names I did not know.

The side tables were strewn with books, and the ample folds of the drab curtains, let down
over the windows, shut out the rain, damp, and chill. When we were gathered round the table,
Mr. Sturge said that he had somewhat expected Elihu Burritt that evening, and we all hoped
he would come. I must not omit to say, that the evening circle was made more attractive and
agreeable in my eyes by the presence of two or three of the little people, who were blessed
with the rosy cheek of English children.

Mr. Sturge is one of the most prominent and efficient of the philanthropists of modern days.
An air of benignity and easy good nature veils and conceals in him the most unflinching perseverance
and energy of purpose. He has for many years been a zealous advocate of the antislavery cause
in England, taking up efficiently the work begun by Clarkson and Wilberforce. He, with a friend
of the same denomination, made a journey at their own expense, to investigate the workings
of the apprentice system, by which the act of immediate emancipation in the West Indies was
for a while delayed. After his return he sustained a rigorous examination of seven days before
a committee of the House of Commons, the result of which successfully demonstrated the abuses
of that system, and its entire inutility for preparing either masters or servants for final
emancipation. This evidence went as far as any thing to induce Parliament to declare immediate
and entire emancipation.

Mr. Sturge also has been equally zealous and engaged in movements for the ignorant and perishing
classes at home. At his own expense he has sustained a private Farm School for the reformation
of juvenile offenders, and it has sometimes been found that boys, whom no severity and no punishment
seemed to affect, have been entirely melted and subdued by the gentler measures here employed.
He has also taken a very ardent and decided part in efforts for the extension of the principles
of peace, being a warm friend and supporter of Elihu Burritt.

The next morning it was agreed that we should take our drive to Stratford-on-Avon. As yet this
shrine of pilgrims stands a little aloof from the bustle of modern progress, and railroad cars
do not run whistling and whisking with brisk officiousness by the old church and the fanciful
banks of the Avon.

The country that we were to pass over was more peculiarly old English; that phase of old English
which is destined soon to pass away, under the restless regenerating force of modern progress.

Our ride along was a singular commixture of an upper and under current of thought. Deep down
in our hearts we were going back to English days; the cumbrous, quaint, queer, old, picturesque
times; the dim, haunted times between cock-crowing and morning; those hours of national childhood,
when popular ideas had the confiding credulity, the poetic vivacity, and versatile life, which
distinguish children from grown people.

No one can fail to feel, in reading any of the plays of Shakspeare, that he was born in an
age of credulity and marvels, and that the materials out of which his mind was woven were dyed
in the grain, in the haunted springs of tradition. It would have been as absolutely impossible
for even himself, had he been born in the daylight of this century, to have built those quaint,
Gothic structures of imagination, and tinted them with their peculiar coloring of marvellousness
and mystery, as for a modern artist to originate and execute the weird designs of an ancient
cathedral. Both Gothic architecture and this perfection of Gothic poetry were the springing
and efflorescence of that age, impossible to grow again. They were the forest primeval; other
trees may spring in their room, trees as mighty and as fair, but not such trees.

So, as we rode along, our speculations and thoughts in the under current were back in the old
world of tradition. While, on the other hand, for the upper current, we were keeping up a brisk
conversation on the peace question, on the abolition of slavery, on the possibility of ignoring
slave-grown produce, on Mr. Cobden and Mr. Bright, and, in fact, on all the most wide-awake
topics of the present day.

One little incident occurred upon the road. As we were passing by a quaint old mansion, which
stood back from the road, surrounded by a deep court, Mr. S. said to me, "There is a friend
here who would like to see thee, if thou hast no objections," and went on to inform me that
she was an aged woman, who had taken a deep interest in the abolition of slavery since the
time of its first inception under Clarkson and Wilberforce, though now lying very low on a
sick bed. Of course we all expressed our willingness to stop, and the carriage was soon driving
up the gravelled walk towards the house. We were ushered into a comfortable sitting room, which
looked out on beautiful grounds, where the velvet grass, tall, dark trees, and a certain quaint
air of antiquity in disposition and arrangement, gave me a singular kind of pleasure; the more
so, that it came to me like a dream; that the house and the people were unknown to me, and
the whole affair entirely unexpected.

I was soon shown into a neat chamber, where an aged woman was lying in bed. I was very much
struck and impressed by her manner of receiving me. With deep emotion and tears, she spoke
of the solemnity and sacredness of the cause which had for years lain near her heart. There
seemed to be something almost prophetic in the solemn strain of assurance with which she spoke
of the final extinction of slavery throughout the world.

I felt both pleased and sorrowful. I felt sorrowful because I knew, if all true Christians
in America had the same feelings, that men, women, and children, for whom Christ died, would
no more be sold in my country on the auction block.

There have been those in America who have felt and prayed thus nobly and sincerely for the
heathen in Burmah and Hindostan, and that sentiment was a beautiful and an ennobling one; but,
alas! the number has been few who have felt and prayed for the heathenism, and shame of our
own country; for the heathenism which sells the very members of the body of Christ as merchandise.

When we were again on the road, we were talking on the change of times in England since railroads
began; and Mr. S. gave an amusing description of how the old lords used to travel in state,
with their coaches and horses, when they went up once a year on a solemn pilgrimage to London,
with postilions and outriders, and all the country gaping and wondering after them.

"I wonder," said one of us, "if Shakspeare were living, what he would say to our times, and
what he would think of all the questions that are agitating the world now." That he did have
thoughts whose roots ran far beyond the depth of the age in which he lived, is plain enough
from numberless indications in his plays; but whether he would have taken any practical interest
in the world's movements is a fair question. The poetic mind is not always the progressive
one; it has, like moss and ivy, a need for something old to cling to and germinate upon. The
artistic temperament, too, is soft and sensitive; so there are all these reasons for thinking
that perhaps he would have been for keeping out of the way of the heat and dust of modern progress.
It does not follow because a man has penetration to see an evil, he has energy to reform it.

Erasmus saw all that Luther saw just as clearly, but he said that he had rather never have
truth at all, than contend for it with the world in such a tumult. However, on the other hand,
England did, in Milton, have one poet who girt himself up to the roughest and stormiest work
of reformation; so it is not quite certain, after all, that Shakspeare might not have been
a reformer in our times. One thing is quite certain, that he would have said very shrewd things
about all the matters that move the world now, as he certainly did about all matters that he
was cognizant of in his own day.

It was a little before noon when we drove into Stratford, by which time, with our usual fatality
in visiting poetic shrines, the day had melted off into a kind of drizzling mist, strongly
suggestive of a downright rain. It is a common trick these English days have; the weather here
seems to be possessed of a water spirit. This constant drizzle is good for ivies, and hawthorns,
and ladies' complexions, as whoever travels here will observe, but it certainly is very bad
for tourists.

This Stratford is a small town, of between three and four thousand inhabitants, and has in
it a good many quaint old houses, and is characterized (so I thought) by an air of respectable,
stand-still, and meditative repose, which, I am afraid, will entirely give way before the railroad
demon, for I understand that it is soon to be connected by the Oxford, Worcester, and Wolverhampton
line with all parts of the kingdom. Just think of that black little screeching imp rushing
through these fields which have inspired so many fancies; how every thing poetical will fly
before it!

And again:--

  "Philomel with melody sing in our sweet lullaby,
    Lulla, lulla, lullaby.
  Never harm, nor spell, nor charm,
    Come our lovely lady nigh."

I suppose the meadows, with their "winking Mary-buds," will be all cut up into building lots
in the good times coming, and Philomel caught and put in a cage to sing to tourists at threepence
a head.

We went to the White Lion, and soon had a little quiet parlor to ourselves, neatly carpeted,
with a sofa drawn up to the cheerful coal fire, a good-toned piano, and in short every thing
cheerful and comfortable.

At first we thought we were too tired to do any thing till after dinner; we were going to take
time to rest ourselves and proceed leisurely; so, while the cloth was laying, C---- took possession
of the piano, and I of the sofa, till Mr. S. came in upon us, saying, "Why, Shakspeare's house
is right the next door here!" Upon that we got up, just to take a peep, and from peeping we
proceeded to looking, and finally put on our things and went over seriatim. The house has recently
been bought by a Shakspearian club, who have taken upon themselves the restoration and preservation
of the premises.

Shakspeare's father, it seems, was a man of some position and substance in his day, being high
sheriff and justice of the peace for the borough; and this house, therefore, I suppose, may
be considered a specimen of the respectable class of houses in the times of Queen Elizabeth.
This cut is taken from an old print, and is supposed to represent the original condition of
the house.

We saw a good many old houses somewhat similar to this on the road, particularly resembling
it in this manner of plastering, which shows all the timber on the outside. Parts of the house
have been sold, altered, and used for various purposes; a butcher's stall having been kept
in a part of it, and a tavern in another portion, being new-fronted with brick.

The object of this Shakspeare Club has been to repurchase all these parts, and restore them
as nearly as possible to their primeval condition. The part of the house which is shown consists
of a lower room, which is floored with flat stones very much broken. It has a wide, old-fashioned
chimney on one side, and opens into a smaller room back of it. From thence you go up a rude
flight of stairs to a low-studded room, with rough-plastered walls, where the poet was born.

The prints of this room, which are generally sold, allow themselves in considerable poetic
license, representing it in fact as quite an elegant apartment, whereas, though it is kept
scrupulously neat and clean, the air of it is ancient and rude. This is a somewhat flattered
likeness. The roughly-plastered walls are so covered with names that it seemed impossible to
add another. The name of almost every modern genius, names of kings, princes, dukes, are shown
here; and it is really curious to see by what devices some very insignificant personages have
endeavored to make their own names conspicuous in the crowd. Generally speaking the inscription
books and walls of distinguished places tend to give great force to the Vulgate rendering of
Ecclesiastes i. 15, "The number of fools is infinite."

To add a name in a private, modest way to walls already so crowded, is allowable; but to scrawl
one's name, place of birth, and country, half across a wall, covering scores of names under
it, is an operation which speaks for itself. No one would ever want to know more of a man than
to see his name there and thus.

Back of this room were some small bed rooms, and what interested me much, a staircase leading
up into a dark garret. I could not but fancy I saw a bright-eyed, curly-headed boy creeping
up those stairs, zealous to explore the mysteries of that dark garret. There perhaps he saw
the cat, with "eyne of burning coal, crouching 'fore the mouse's hole." Doubtless in this old
garret were wonderful mysteries to him, curious stores of old cast-off goods and furniture,
and rats, and mice, and cobwebs. I fancied the indignation of some belligerent grandmother
or aunt, who finds Willie up there watching a mouse hole, with the cat, and has him down straightway,
grumbling that Mary did not govern that child better.

We know nothing who this Mary was that was his mother; but one sometimes wonders where in that
coarse age, when queens and ladies talked familiarly, as women would blush to talk now, and
when the broad, coarse wit of the Merry Wives of Windsor was gotten up to suit the taste of
a virgin queen,--one wonders, I say, when women were such and so, where he found those models
of lily-like purity, women so chaste in soul and pure in language that they could not even
bring their lips to utter a word of shame. Desdemona cannot even bring herself to speak the
coarse word with which her husband taunts her; she cannot make herself believe that there are
women in the world who could stoop-to such grossness.[L]

For my part I cannot believe that, in such an age, such deep heart-knowledge of pure womanhood
could have come otherwise than by the impression on the child's soul of a mother's purity.
I seem to have a vision of one of those women whom the world knows not of, silent, deep-hearted,
loving, whom the coarser and more practically efficient jostle aside and underrate for their
want of interest in the noisy chitchat and commonplace of the day; but who yet have a sacred
power, like that of the spirit of peace, to brood with dovelike wings over the childish heart,
and quicken into life the struggling, slumbering elements of a sensitive nature.

I cannot but think, in that beautiful scene, where he represents Desdemona as amazed and struck
dumb with the grossness and brutality of the charges which had been thrown upon her, yet so
dignified in the consciousness of her own purity, so magnanimous in the power of disinterested,
forgiving love, that he was portraying no ideal excellence, but only reproducing, under fictitious
and supposititious circumstances, the patience, magnanimity, and enduring love which had shone
upon him in the household words and ways of his mother.

It seemed to me that in that bare and lowly chamber I saw a vision of a lovely face which was
the first beauty that dawned on those childish eyes, and heard that voice whose lullaby tuned
his ear to an exquisite sense of cadence and rhythm. I fancied that, while she thus serenely
shone upon, him like a benignant star, some rigorous grand-aunt took upon her the practical
part of his guidance, chased up his wanderings to the right and left, scolded him for wanting
to look out of the window because his little climbing toes left their mark on the neat wall,
or rigorously arrested him when his curly head was seen bobbing off at the bottom of the street,
following a bird, or a dog, or a showman; intercepting him in some happy hour when he was aiming
to strike off on his own account to an adjoining field for "winking Mary-buds;" made long sermons
to him on the wickedness of muddying his clothes and wetting his new shoes, (if he had any,)
and told him that something dreadful would come out of the graveyard and catch him if he was
not a better boy, imagining that if it were not for her bustling activity Willie would go straight
to destruction.

I seem, too, to have a kind of perception of Shakspeare's father; a quiet, God-fearing, thoughtful
man, given to the reading of good books, avoiding quarrels with a most Christian-like fear,
and with but small talent, either in the way of speech making or money getting; a man who wore
his coat with an easy slouch, and who seldom knew where his money went to.

All these things I seemed to perceive as if a sort of vision had radiated from the old walls;
there seemed to be the rustling of garments and the sound of voices in the deserted rooms;
the pattering of feet on the worm-eaten staircase; the light of still, shady summer afternoons,
a hundred years ago, seemed to fall through the casements and lie upon the floor. There was
an interest to every thing about the house, even to the quaint iron fastenings about the windows;
because those might have arrested that child's attention, and been dwelt on in some dreamy
hour of infant thought. The fires that once burned in those old chimneys, the fleeting sparks,
the curling smoke, and glowing coals, all may have inspired their fancies. There is a strong
tinge of household coloring in many parts of Shakspeare, imagery that could only have come
from such habits of quiet, household contemplation. See, for example, this description of the
stillness of the house, after all are gone to bed at night:--

  "Now sleep yslaked hath the rout;
  No din but snores, the house about,
  Made louder by the o'er-fed breast
  Of this most pompous marriage feast.
  The cat, with, eyne of burning coal,
  Now crouches 'fore the mouse's hole;
  And, crickets sing at th' oven's mouth,
  As the blither for their drouth."

Also this description of the midnight capers of the fairies about the house, from Midsummer
Night's Dream:--

  PUCK.  "Now the hungry lion roars,
           And the wolf behowls the moon;
         Whilst the heavy ploughman snores,
           All with, weary task fordone.
         Now the wasted brands do glow,
           Whilst the scritch-owl, scritching loud,
         Puts the wretch, that lies in woe,
           In remembrance of a shroud.
         Now it is the time of night,
           That the graves all gaping wide,
         Every one lets forth his sprite,
           In the churchway paths to glide:

         And we fairies that do run
           By the triple Hecate's team,
         From the presence of the sun,
           Following darkness like a dream,
         Now are frolic; not a mouse
         Shall disturb this hallowed house:
         I am sent with, broom, before,
         To sweep the dust behind the door.

  OBE.   Through this house give glimmering light,
           By the dead and drowsy fire:
         Every elf, and fairy sprite,
           Hop as light as bird, from brier;
         And this ditty after me
         Sing, and dance it trippingly."

I have often noticed how much the first writings of Milton resemble in their imagery and tone
of coloring those of Shakspeare, particularly in the phraseology and manner of describing flowers.
I think, were a certain number of passages from Lycidas and Comus interspersed with a certain
number from Midsummer Night's Dream, the imagery, tone of thought, and style of coloring, would
be found so nearly identical, that it would be difficult for one not perfectly familiar to
distinguish them. You may try it.

That Milton read and admired Shakspeare is evident from his allusion to him in L'Allegro. It
is evident, however, that Milton's taste had been so formed by the Greek models, that he was
not entirely aware of all that was in Shakspeare; he speaks of him as a sweet, fanciful warbler,
and it is exactly in sweetness and fancifulness that he seems to have derived benefit from
him. In his earlier poems, Milton seems, like Shakspeare, to have let his mind run freely,
as a brook warbles over many-colored pebbles; whereas in his great poem he built after models.
Had he known as little Latin and Greek as Shakspeare, the world, instead of seeing a well-arranged
imitation of the ancient epics from his pen, would have seen inaugurated a new order of poetry.

An unequalled artist, who should build after the model of a Grecian temple, would doubtless
produce a splendid and effective building, because a certain originality always inheres in
genius, even when copying; but far greater were it to invent an entirely new style of architecture,
as different as the Gothic from the Grecian. This merit was Shakspeare's. He was a superb Gothic
poet; Milton, a magnificent imitator of old forms, which by his genius were wrought almost
into the energy of new productions.

I think Shakspeare is to Milton precisely what Gothic architecture is to Grecian, or rather
to the warmest, most vitalized reproductions of the Grecian; there is in Milton a calm, severe
majesty, a graceful and polished inflorescence of ornament, that produces, as you look upon
it, a serene, long, strong ground-swell of admiration and approval. Yet there is a cold unity
of expression, that calls into exercise only the very highest range of our faculties: there
is none of that wreathed involution of smiles and tears, of solemn earnestness and quaint conceits;
those sudden uprushings of grand and magnificent sentiment, like the flame-pointed arches of
cathedrals; those ranges of fancy, half goblin, half human; those complications of dizzy magnificence
with fairy lightness; those streamings of many-colored light; those carvings wherein every
natural object is faithfully reproduced, yet combined into a kind of enchantment: the union
of all these is in Shakspeare, and not in Milton. Milton had one most glorious phase of humanity
in its perfection; Shakspeare had all united; from the "deep and dreadful" sub-bass of the
organ to the most aerial warbling of its highest key, not a stop or pipe was wanting.

But, in fine, at the end of all this we went back to our hotel to dinner. After dinner we set
out to see the church. Even Walter Scott has not a more poetic monument than this church, standing
as it does amid old, embowering trees, on the beautiful banks of the Avon. A soft, still rain
was falling on the leaves of the linden trees, as we walked up the avenue to the church. Even
rainy though it was, I noticed that many little birds would occasionally break out into song.

The church has been carefully restored inside, so that it is now in excellent preservation,
and Shakspeare lies buried under a broad, flat stone in the chancel. I had full often read,
and knew by heart, the inscription on this stone; but somehow, when I came and stood over it,
and read it, it affected me as if there were an emanation from the grave beneath. I have often
wondered at that inscription, that a mind so sensitive, that had thought so much, and expressed
thought with such startling power on all the mysteries of death, the grave, and the future
world, should have found nothing else to inscribe on his own grave but this:--

  Good Friend for Iesus SAKE forbare
  To digg T-E Dust EncloAsed HERe
  Blese be T-E Man T spares T-Es Stones
                   Y
  And curst be He T moves my Bones
                  Y

It seems that the inscription has not been without its use, in averting what the sensitive
poet most dreaded; for it is recorded in one of the books sold here, that some years ago, in
digging a neighboring grave, a careless sexton broke into the side of Shakspeare's tomb, and
looking in saw his bones, and could easily have carried away the skull had he not been deterred
by the imprecation.

There is a monument in the side of the wall, which has a bust of Shakspeare upon it, said to
be the most authentic likeness, and supposed to have been taken by a cast from his face after
death. This statement was made to us by the guide who showed it, and he stated that Chantrey
had come to that conclusion by a minute examination of the face. He took us into a room, where
was an exact plaster cast of the bust, on which he pointed out various little minutiae on which
this idea was founded. The two sides of the face are not alike; there is a falling in and depression
of the muscles on one side which does not exist on the other, such as probably would never
have occurred in a fancy bust, where the effort always is to render the two sides of the face
as much alike as possible. There is more fulness about the lower part of the face than is consistent
with the theory of an idealized bust, but is perfectly consistent with the probabilities of
the time of life at which he died, and perhaps with the effects of the disease of which he died.

All this I set down as it was related to me by our guide; it had a very plausible and probable
sound, and I was bent on believing, which is a great matter in faith of all kinds.

It is something in favor of the supposition that this is an authentic likeness, that it was
erected in his own native town within seven years of his death, among people, therefore, who
must have preserved the recollection of his personal appearance. After the manner of those
times it was originally painted, the hair and beard of an auburn color, the eyes hazel, and
the dress was represented as consisting of a scarlet doublet, over which was a loose black
gown without sleeves; all which looks like an attempt to preserve an exact likeness. The inscription
upon it, also, seemed to show that there were some in the world by no means unaware of who
and what he was.

Next to the tomb of Shakspeare in the chancel is buried his favorite daughter, over whom somebody
has placed the following quaint inscription:--

  "Witty above her sex, but that's not all,
  Wise to salvation was good Mistress Hall.
  Something of Shakspeare was in that, but this
  Wholly of him, with whom she is now in bliss;
  Then, passenger, hast ne'er a tear,
  To weep with her that wept with, all--
  That wept, yet set herself to cheer
  Them, up with comfort's cordial?
  Her lore shall live, her mercy spread,
  When thou hast ne'er a tear to shed."

This good Mistress Hall, it appears, was Shakspeare's favorite among his three children. His
son, Hamet, died at twelve years of age. His daughter Judith, as appears from some curious
document still extant, could not write her own name, but signed with her mark; so that the
"wit" of the family must have concentrated itself in Mistress Hall. To her, in his last will,
which is still extant, Shakspeare bequeathed an amount of houses, lands, plate, jewels, and
other valuables, sufficient to constitute quite a handsome estate. It would appear, from this,
that the poet deemed her not only "wise unto salvation," but wise in her day and generation,
thus intrusting her with the bulk of his worldly goods.

His wife, Ann Hathaway, is buried near by, under the same pavement. From the slight notice
taken of her in the poet's will, it would appear that there was little love between them. He
married her when he was but eighteen; most likely she was a mere rustic beauty, entirely incapable
either of appreciating or adapting herself to that wide and wonderful mind in its full development.

As to Mistress Hall, though the estate was carefully entailed, through her, to heirs male through
all generations, it was not her good fortune to become the mother of a long line, for she had
only one daughter, who became Lady Barnard, and in whom, dying childless, the family became
extinct. Shakspeare, like Scott, seems to have had the desire to perpetuate himself by founding
a family with an estate, and the coincidence in the result is striking. Genius must be its
own monument.

After we had explored the church we went out to walk about the place. We crossed the beautiful
bridge over the Avon, and thought how lovely those fields and meadows would look, if they only
had sunshine to set them out. Then we went to the town hall, where we met the mayor, who had
kindly called and offered to show us the place.

It seems, in 1768, that Garrick set himself to work in good earnest to do honor to Shakspeare's
memory, by getting up a public demonstration at Stratford; and the world, through the talents
of this actor, having become alive and enthusiastic, liberal subscriptions were made by the
nobility and gentry, the town hall was handsomely repaired and adorned, and a statue of Shakspeare,
presented by Garrick, was placed in a niche at one end. Then all the chief men and mighty men
of the nation came and testified their reverence for the poet, by having a general jubilee.
A great tent was spread on the banks of the Avon, where they made speeches and drank wine,
and wound up all with a great dance in the town hall; and so the manes of Shakspeare were appeased,
and his position settled for all generations. The room in the town hall is a very handsome
one, and has pictures of Garrick, and the other notables who figured on that occasion.

After that we were taken to see New Place. "And what is New Place?" you say; "the house where
Shakspeare lived?" Not exactly; but a house built where his house was. This drawing is taken
from an old print, and is supposed to represent the house as Shakspeare fitted it up.

We went out into what was Shakspeare's garden, where we were shown his mulberry--not the one
that he planted though, but a veritable mulberry planted on the same spot; and then we went
back to our hotel very tired, but having conscientiously performed every jot and tittle of
the duty of good pilgrims.

As we sat, in the drizzly evening, over our comfortable tea table, C---- ventured to intimate
pretty decidedly that he considered the whole thing a bore; whereat I thought I saw a sly twinkle
around the eyes and mouth of our most Christian and patient friend, Joseph Sturge. Mr. S. laughingly
told him that he thought it the greatest exercise of Christian tolerance, that he should have
trailed round in the mud with us all day in our sightseeing, bearing with our unreasonable
raptures. He smiled, and said, quietly, "I must confess that I was a little pleased that our
friend Harriet was so zealous to see Shakspeare's house, when it wasn't his house, and so earnest
to get sprigs from his mulberry, when it wasn't his mulberry." We were quite ready to allow
the foolishness of the thing, and join the laugh at our own expense.

As to our bed rooms, you must know that all the apartments in this house are named after different
plays of Shakspeare, the name being printed conspicuously over each door; so that the choosing
of our rooms made us a little sport.

"What rooms will you have, gentlemen?" says the pretty chamber maid.

"Rooms," said Mr. S.; "why, what are there to have?"

"Well, there's Richard III., and there's Hamlet," says the girl.

"O, Hamlet, by all means," said I; "that was always my favorite. Can't sleep in Richard III.,
we should have such bad dreams."

"For my part," said C----, "I want All's well that ends well."

"I think," said the chamber maid, hesitating, "the bed in Hamlet isn't large enough for two.
Richard III. is a very nice room, sir."

In fact, it became evident that we were foreordained to Richard; so we resolved to embrace
the modern historical view of this subject, which will before long turn him out a saint, and
not be afraid of the muster roll of ghosts which Shakspeare represented as infesting his apartment.

Well, for a wonder, the next morning arose a genuine sunny, beautiful day. Let the fact be
recorded that such things do sometimes occur even in England. C---- was mollified, and began
to recant his ill-natured heresies of the night before, and went so far as to walk, out of
his own proper motion, to Ann Hathaway's Cottage before breakfast--he being one of the brethren
described by Longfellow,

  "Who is gifted with most miraculous powers
  Of getting up at all sorts of hours;"

and therefore he came in to breakfast table with that serenity of virtuous composure which
generally attends those who have been out enjoying the beauties of nature while their neighbors
have been ingloriously dozing.

The walk, he said, was beautiful; the cottage damp, musty, and fusty; and a supposititious
old bedstead, of the age of Queen Elizabeth, which had been obtruded upon his notice because
it might have belonged to Ann Hathaway's mother, received a special malediction. For my part,
my relic-hunting propensities were not in the slightest degree appeased, but rather stimulated,
by the investigations of the day before.

It seemed to me so singular that of such a man there should not remain one accredited relic!
Of Martin Luther, though he lived much earlier, how many things remain! Of almost any distinguished
character how much more is known than of Shakspeare! There is not, so far as I can discover,
an authentic relic of any thing belonging to him. There are very few anecdotes of his sayings
or doings; no letters, no private memoranda, that should let us into the secret of what he
was personally who has in turns personated all minds. The very perfection of his dramatic talent
has become an impenetrable veil: we can no more tell from his writings what were his predominant
tastes and habits than we can discriminate among the variety of melodies what are the native
notes of the mocking bird. The only means left us for forming an opinion of what he was personally
are inferences of the most delicate nature from, the slightest premises.

The common idea which has pervaded the world, of a joyous, roving, somewhat unsettled, and
dissipated character, would seem, from many well-authenticated facts, to be incorrect. The
gayeties and dissipations of his life seem to have been confined to his very earliest days,
and to have been the exuberance of a most extraordinary vitality, bursting into existence with
such force and vivacity that it had not had time to collect itself, and so come to self-knowledge
and control. By many accounts it would appear that the character he sustained in the last years
of his life was that of a judicious, common-sense sort of man; a discreet, reputable, and religious
householder.

The inscription on his tomb is worthy of remark, as indicating the reputation he bore at the
time: "Judicio Pylium, genio Socratem, arte Maronem" (In judgment a Nestor, in genius a Socrates,
in art a Virgil.)

The comparison of him in the first place to Nestor, proverbially famous for practical judgment
and virtue of life, next to Socrates, who was a kind of Greek combination of Dr. Paley and
Dr. Franklin, indicates a very different impression of him from what would generally be expressed
of a poet, certainly what would not have been placed on the grave of an eccentric, erratic
will-o'-the-wisp genius, however distinguished. Moreover, the pious author of good Mistress
Hall's epitaph records the fact of her being "wise to salvation," as a more especial point
of resemblance to her father than even her being "witty above her sex," and expresses most
confident hope of her being with him in bliss. The Puritan tone of the epitaph, as well as
the quality of the verse, gives reason to suppose that it was not written by one who was seduced
into a tombstone lie by any superfluity of poetic sympathy.

The last will of Shakspeare, written by his own hand and still preserved, shows several things
of the man.

The introduction is as follows:--

"In the name of God. Amen. I, William Shakspeare, at Stratford-upon-Avon, in the county of
Warwick, gentleman, in perfect health and memory, (God be praised,) do make and ordain this
my last will and testament in manner and form following; that is to say,--

"First, I commend my soul into the hands of God my Creator, hoping, and assuredly believing,
through the only merits of Jesus Christ, my Savior, to be made partaker of life everlasting;
and my body to the earth, whereof it is made."

The will then goes on to dispose of an amount of houses, lands, plate, money, jewels, &c.,
which showed certainly that the poet had possessed some worldly skill and thrift in accumulation,
and to divide them with a care and accuracy which would indicate that he was by no means of
that dreamy and unpractical habit of mind which cares not what becomes of worldly goods.

We may also infer something of a man's character from the tone and sentiments of others towards
him. Glass of a certain color casts on surrounding objects a reflection of its own hue, and
so the tint of a man's character returns upon us in the habitual manner in which he is spoken
of by those around him. The common mode of speaking of Shakspeare always savored of endearment.
"Gentle Will" is an expression that seemed oftenest repeated. Ben Jonson inscribed his funeral
verses "To the Memory of my beloved Mr. William Shakspeare;" he calls him the "sweet swan of
Avon." Again, in his lines under a bust of Shakspeare, he says,--

  "The figure that thou seest put,
  It was for gentle Shakspeare cut."

In later times Milton, who could have known him only by tradition, calls him "my Shakspeare,"
"dear son of memory," and "sweetest Shakspeare." Now, nobody ever wrote of sweet John Milton,
or gentle John Milton, or gentle Martin Luther, or even sweet Ben Jonson. His pleasurable wit
and good nature engaged him in the acquaintance, and entitled him to the friendship, of the
gentlemen of the neighborhood." And Dr. Drake says, "He was high in reputation as a poet, favored
by the great and the accomplished, and beloved by all who knew him."

That Shakspeare had religious principle, I infer not merely from the indications of his will
and tombstone, but from those strong evidences of the working of the religious element which
are scattered through his plays. No man could have a clearer perception of God's authority
and man's duty; no one has expressed more forcibly the strength of God's government, the spirituality
of his requirements, or shown with more fearful power the struggles of the "law in the members
warring against the law of the mind."

These evidences, scattered through his plays, of deep religious struggles, make probable the
idea that, in the latter, thoughtful, and tranquil years of his life, devotional impulses might
have settled into habits, and that the solemn language of his will, in which he professes his
faith, in Christ, was not a mere form. Probably he had all his life, even in his gayest hours,
more real religious principle than the hilarity of his manner would give reason to suppose.
I always fancy he was thinking of himself when he wrote this character: "For the man doth fear
God, howsoever it seem not in him by reason of some large jests he doth make."

Neither is there any foundation for the impression that he was undervalued in his own times.
No literary man of his day had more success, more flattering attentions from the great, or
reaped more of the substantial fruits of popularity, in the form of worldly goods. While his
contemporary, Ben Jonson, sick in a miserable alley, is forced to beg, and receives but a wretched
pittance from Charles I., Shakspeare's fortune steadily increases from year to year. He buys
the best place in his native town, and fits it up with great taste; he offered to lend, on
proper security, a sum of money for the use of the town of Stratford; he added to his estate
in Stratford a hundred and seventy acres of land; he bought half the great and small tithes
of Stratford; and his annual income is estimated to have been what would at the present time
be nearly four thousand dollars.

Queen Elizabeth also patronized him after her ordinary fashion of patronizing literary men,--that
is to say, she expressed her gracious pleasure that he should burn incense to her, and pay
his own bills: economy was not one of the least of the royal graces. The Earl of Southampton
patronized him in a more material fashion.

Queen Elizabeth even so far condescended to the poet as to perform certain hoidenish tricks
while he was playing on the stage, to see if she could not disconcert his speaking by the majesty
of her royal presence. The poet, who was performing the part of King Henry IV., took no notice
of her motions, till, in order to bring him to a crisis, she dropped her glove at his feet;
whereat he picked it up, and presented it her, improvising these two lines, as if they had
been a part of the play:--

  "And though, now bent on this high embassy,
  Yet stoop we to take up our cousin's glove."

I think this anecdote very characteristic of them both; it seems to me it shows that the poet
did not so absolutely crawl in the dust before her, as did almost all the so called men of
her court; though he did certainly flatter her after a fashion in which few queens can be flattered.
His description of the belligerent old Gorgon as the "Fair Vestal throned by the West" seems
like the poetry and fancy of the beautiful Fairy Queen wasted upon the half-brute clown:--

  "Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed,
    While I thy amiable cheeks do coy,
  And stick musk roses in thy sleek, smooth, head,
    And kiss thy fair, large ears, my gentle joy."

Elizabeth's understanding and appreciation of Shakspeare was much after the fashion of Nick
Bottom's of the Fairy Queen. I cannot but believe that the men of genius who employed their
powers in celebrating this most repulsive and disagreeable woman must sometimes have comforted
themselves by a good laugh in private.

In order to appreciate Shakspeare's mind from his plays, we must discriminate what expressed
the gross tastes of his age, and what he wrote to please himself. The Merry Wives of Windsor
was a specimen of what he wrote for the "Fair Vestal;" a commentary on the delicacy of her
maiden meditations. The Midsummer Night's Dream he wrote from his own inner dream world.

In the morning we took leave of our hotel. In leaving we were much touched with the simple
kindliness of the people of the house. The landlady and her daughters came to bid us farewell,
with much feeling; and the former begged my acceptance of a bead purse, knit by one of her
daughters, she said, during the winter evenings while they were reading Uncle Tom. In this
town one finds the simple-hearted, kindly English people corresponding to the same class which
we see in our retired New England towns. We received many marks of kindness from different
residents in Stratford; in the expression of them, they appreciated and entered into our desire
for privacy with a delicacy which touched us sensibly.

We had little time to look about us to see Stratford in the sunshine. So we went over to a
place on the banks of the Avon, where, it was said, we could gain a very perfect view of the
church. The remembrance of this spot is to me like a very pleasant dream. The day was bright,
the air was soft and still, as we walked up and down the alleys of a beautiful garden that
extended quite to the church; the rooks were dreamily cawing, and wheeling in dark, airy circles
round the old buttresses and spire. A funeral train had come into the graveyard, and the passing
bell was tolling. A thousand undefined emotions struggled in my mind.

That loving heart, that active fancy, that subtile, elastic power of appreciating and expressing
all phases, all passions of humanity, are they breathed out on the wind? are they spent like
the lightning? are they exhaled like the breath of flowers? or are they still living, still
active? and if so, where and how? Is it reserved for us, in that "undiscovered country" which
he spoke of, ever to meet the great souls whose breath has kindled our souls?

I think we forget the consequences of our own belief in immortality, and look on the ranks
of prostrate dead as a mower on fields of prostrate flowers, forgetting that activity is an
essential of souls, and that every soul which has passed away from this world must ever since
have been actively developing those habits of mind and modes of feeling which it began here.

The haughty, cruel, selfish Elizabeth, and all the great men of her court, are still living
and acting somewhere; but where? For my part I am often reminded, when dwelling on departed
genius, of Luther's ejaculation for his favorite classic poet: "I hope God will have mercy
on such."

We speak of the glory of God as exhibited in natural landscape making; what is it, compared
with the glory of God as shown in the making of souls, especially those souls which seem to
be endowed with a creative power like his own?

There seems, strictly speaking, to be only two classes of souls--the creative and the receptive.
Now, these creators seem to me to have a beauty and a worth about them entirely independent
of their moral character. That ethereal power which shows itself in Greek sculpture and Gothic
architecture, in Rubens, Shakspeare, and Mozart, has a quality to me inexpressibly admirable
and lovable. We may say, it is true, that there is no moral excellence in it; but none the
less do we admire it. God has made us so that we cannot help loving it; our souls go forth
to it with an infinite longing, nor can that longing be condemned. That mystic quality that
exists in these souls is a glimpse and intimation of what exists in Him in full perfection.
If we remember this we shall not lose ourselves in admiration of worldly genius, but be led
by it to a better understanding of what He is, of whom all the glories of poetry and art are
but symbols and shadows.

LETTER XI.

DEAR H.:--

From Stratford we drove to Warwick, (or "Warrick," as they call it here.) This town stands
on a rocky hill on the banks of the Avon, and is quite a considerable place, for it returns
two members to Parliament, and has upwards of ten thousand inhabitants; and also has some famous
manufactories of wool combing and spinning. But what we came to see was the castle. We drove
up to the Warwick Arms, which is the principal hotel in the place; and, finding that we were
within the hours appointed for exhibition, we went immediately.

With my head in a kind of historical mist, full of images of York and Lancaster, and Red and
White Roses, and Warwick the king maker, I looked up to the towers and battlements of the old
castle. We went in through a passage way cut in solid rock, about twenty feet deep, and I should
think fifty long. These walls were entirely covered with ivy, hanging down like green streamers;
gentle and peaceable pennons these are, waving and whispering that the old war times are gone.

At the end of this passage there is a drawbridge over what was formerly the moat, but which
is now grassed and planted with shrubbery. Up over our heads we saw the great iron teeth of
the portcullis. A rusty old giant it seemed up there, like Pope and Pagan in Pilgrim's Progress,
finding no scope for himself in these peaceable times.

When we came fairly into the court yard of the castle, a scene of magnificent beauty opened
before us. I cannot describe it minutely. The principal features are the battlements, towers,
and turrets of the old feudal castle, encompassed by grounds on which has been expended all
that princely art of landscape gardening for which England is famous--leafy thickets, magnificent
trees, openings, and vistas of verdure, and wide sweeps of grass, short, thick, and vividly
green, as the velvet moss we sometimes see growing on rocks in New England. Grass is an art
and a science in England--it is an institution. The pains that are taken in sowing, tending,
cutting, clipping, rolling, and otherwise nursing and coaxing it, being seconded by the misty
breath and often falling tears of the climate, produce results which must be seen to be appreciated.

So again of trees in England. Trees here are an order of nobility; and they wear their crowns
right kingly. A few years ago, when Miss Sedgwick was in this country, while admiring some
splendid trees in a nobleman's park, a lady standing by said to her encouragingly, "O, well,
I suppose your trees in America will be grown up after a while!" Since that time another style
of thinking of America has come up, and the remark that I most generally hear made is, "O,
I suppose we cannot think of showing you any thing in the way of trees, coming as you do from
America!" Throwing out of account, however, the gigantic growth of our western river bottoms,
where I have seen sycamore trunks twenty feet in diameter--leaving out of account, I say, all
this mammoth arboria, these English parks have trees as fine and as effective, of their kind,
as any of ours; and when I say their trees are an order of nobility, I mean that they pay a
reverence to them such as their magnificence deserves. Such elms as adorn the streets of New
Haven, or overarch the meadows of Andover, would in England be considered as of a value which
no money could represent; no pains, no expense would be spared to preserve their life and health;
they would never be shot dead by having gas pipes laid under them, as they have been in some
of our New England towns; or suffered to be devoured by canker worms for want of any amount
of money spent in their defence.

Some of the finest trees in this place are magnificent cedars of Lebanon, which bring to mind
the expression in Psalms, "Excellent as the cedars." They are the very impersonation of kingly
majesty, and are fitted to grace the old feudal stronghold of Warwick the king maker. These
trees, standing as they do amid magnificent sweeps and undulations of lawn, throwing out their
mighty arms with such majestic breadth and freedom of outline, are themselves a living, growing,
historical epic. Their seed was brought from Holy Land in the old days of the crusades; and
a hundred legends might be made up of the time, date, and occasion of their planting. These
crusades have left their mark every where through Europe, from the cross panel on the doors
of common houses to the oriental touches and arabesques of castles and cathedrals.

In the reign of Stephen there was a certain Roger de Newburg, second Earl of Warwick, who appears
to have been an exceedingly active and public-spirited character; and, besides conquering part
of Wales, founded in this neighborhood various priories and hospitals, among which was the
house of the Templars, and a hospital for lepers. He made several pilgrimages to Holy Land;
and so I think it as likely as most theories that he ought to have the credit of these cedars.

These Earls of Warwick appear always to have been remarkably stirring men in their day and
generation, and foremost in whatever was going on in the world, whether political or religious.
To begin, there was Guy, Earl of Warwick, who lived somewhere in the times of the old dispensation,
before King Arthur, and who distinguished himself, according to the fashion of those days,
by killing giants and various colored dragons, among which a green one especially figures.
It appears that he slew also a notable dun cow, of a kind of mastodon breed, which prevailed
in those early days, which was making great havoc in the neighborhood. In later times, when
the giants, dragons, and other animals of that sort were somewhat brought under, we find the
Earls of Warwick equally busy burning and slaying to the right and left; now crusading into
Palestine, and now fighting the French, who were a standing resort for activity when nothing
else was to be done; with great versatility diversifying these affairs with pilgrimages to
the holy sepulchre, and founding monasteries and hospitals. One stout earl, after going to
Palestine and laying about him like a very dragon for some years, brought home a live Saracen
king to London, and had him baptized and made a Christian of, vi et armis.

During the scuffle of the Roses, it was a Warwick, of course, who was uppermost. Stout old
Richard, the king maker, set up first one party and then the other, according to his own sovereign
pleasure, and showed as much talent at fighting on both sides, and keeping the country in an
uproar, as the modern politicians of America.

When the times of the Long Parliament and the Commonwealth came, an Earl of Warwick was high
admiral of England, and fought valiantly for the Commonwealth, using the navy on the popular
side; and his grandson married the youngest daughter of Oliver Cromwell. When the royal family
was to be restored, an Earl of Warwick was one of the six lords who were sent to Holland for
Charles II. The earls of this family have been no less distinguished for movements which have
favored the advance of civilization and letters than for energy in the battle field. In the
reign of Queen Elizabeth an Earl of Warwick founded the History Lecture at Cambridge, and left
a salary for the professor. This same earl was general patron of letters and arts, assisting
many men of talents, and was a particular and intimate friend of Sir Philip Sidney.

What more especially concerns us as New Englanders is, that an earl of this house was the powerful
patron and protector of New England during the earlier years of our country. This was Robert
Greville, the high admiral of England before alluded to, and ever looked upon as a protector
of the Puritans. Frequent allusion is made to him in Winthrop's Journal as performing various
good offices for them.

The first grant of Connecticut was made to this earl, and by him assigned to Lord Say and Seal,
and Lord Brooke. The patronage which this earl extended to the Puritans is more remarkable
because in principle he was favorable to Episcopacy. It appears to have been prompted by a
chivalrous sense of justice; probably the same which influenced old Guy of Warwick in the King
Arthur times, of whom the ancient chronicler says, "This worshipful knight, in his acts of
warre, ever consydered what parties had wronge, and therto would he drawe."

The present earl has never taken a share in public or political life, but resided entirely
on his estate, devoting himself to the improvement of his ground and tenants. He received the
estate much embarrassed, and the condition of the tenantry was at that time quite depressed.
By the devotion of his life it has been rendered one of the most flourishing and prosperous
estates in this part of England. I have heard him spoken of as a very exemplary, excellent
man. He is now quite advanced, and has been for some time in failing health. He sent our party
a very kind and obliging message, desiring that we would consider ourselves fully at liberty
to visit any part of the grounds or castle, there being always some reservation as to what
tourists may visit.

We caught glimpses of him once or twice, supported by attendants, as he was taking the air
in one of the walks of the grounds, and afterwards wheeled about in a garden chair.

The family has thrice died out in the direct line, and been obliged to resuscitate through
collateral branches; but it seems the blood holds good notwithstanding. As to honors there
is scarcely a possible distinction in the state or army that has not at one time or other been
the property of this family.

Under the shade of these lofty cedars they have sprung and fallen, an hereditary line of princes.
One cannot but feel, in looking on these majestic trees, with the battlements, turrets, and
towers of the old castle every where surrounding him, and the magnificent parks and lawns opening
through dreamy vistas of trees into what seems immeasurable distance, the force of the soliloquy
which Shakspeare puts into the mouth of the dying old king maker, as he lies breathing out
his soul in the dust and blood of the battle field:--

  "Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge,
  Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,
  Under whose shade the rampant lion slept;
  Whose top branch overpeered Jove's spreading tree,
  And kept low shrubs from, winter's powerful wind.
  These eyes, that now are dimmed with death's black veil,
  Have been as piercing as the midday sun
  To search, the secret treasons of the world:
  The wrinkles in my brow, now filled with blood,
  Were likened oft to kingly sepulchres;
  For who lived king but I could dig his grave?
  And who durst smile when Warwick bent his brow?
  Lo, now my glory smeared in dust and blood!
  My parks, my walks, my manors that I had,
  Even now forsake me; and of all my lands
  Is nothing left me but my body's length!
  Why, what is pomp, rule, reign, but earth and dust?
  And live we how we can, yet die we must."

During Shakspeare's life Warwick was in the possession of Greville, the friend of Sir Philip
Sidney, and patron of arts and letters. It is not, therefore, improbable that Shakspeare might,
in his times, often have been admitted to wander through the magnificent grounds, and it is
more than probable that the sight of these majestic cedars might have suggested the noble image
in this soliloquy. It is only about eight miles from Stratford, within the fair limits of a
comfortable pedestrian excursion, and certainly could not but have been an object of deep interest
to such a mind as his.

I have described the grounds first, but, in fact, we did not look at them first, but went into
the house where we saw not only all the state rooms, but, through the kindness of the noble
proprietor, many of those which are not commonly exhibited; a bewildering display of magnificent
apartments, pictures, gems, vases, arms and armor, antiques, all, in short, that the wealth
of a princely and powerful family had for centuries been accumulating.

The great hall of the castle is sixty-two feet in length and forty in breadth, ornamented with
a richly carved Gothic roof, in which figures largely the family cognizance of the bear and
ragged staff. There is a succession of shields, on which are emblazoned the quarterings of
successive Earls of Warwick. The sides of the wall are ornamented with lances, corselets, shields,
helmets, and complete suits of armor, regularly arranged as in an armory. Here I learned what
the buff coat is, which had so often puzzled me in reading Scott's descriptions, as there were
several hanging up here. It seemed to be a loose doublet of chamois leather, which was worn
under the armor, and protected the body from its harshness.

Here we saw the helmet of Cromwell, a most venerable relic. Before the great, cavernous fireplace
was piled up on a sled a quantity of yew tree wood. The rude simplicity of thus arranging it
on the polished floor of this magnificent apartment struck me as quite singular. I suppose
it is a continuation of some ancient custom.

Opening from this apartment on either side are suits of rooms, the whole series being three
hundred and thirty-three feet in length. These rooms are all hung with pictures, and studded
with antiques and curiosities of immense value. There is, first, the red drawing room, and
then the cedar drawing room, then the gilt drawing room, the state bed room, the boudoir, &c.,
&c., hung with pictures by Vandyke, Rubens, Guido, Sir Joshua Reynolds, Paul Veronese, any
one of which would require days of study; of course, the casual glance that one could give
them in a rapid survey would not amount to much.

We were shown one table of gems and lapis lazuli, which cost what would be reckoned a comfortable
fortune in New England. For matters of this kind I have little sympathy. The canvas, made vivid
by the soul of an inspired artist, tells me something of God's power in creating that soul;
but a table of gems is in no wise interesting to me, except so far as it is pretty in itself.

I walked to one of the windows of these lordly apartments, and while the company were examining
buhl cabinets, and all other deliciousness of the place, I looked down the old gray walls into
the amber waters of the Avon, which flows at their base, and thought that the most beautiful
of all was without. There is a tiny fall that crosses the river just above here, whose waters
turn the wheels of an old mossy mill, where for centuries the family grain has been ground.
The river winds away through the beautiful parks and undulating foliage, its soft, grassy banks
dotted here and there with sheep and cattle, and you catch farewell gleams and glitters of
it as it loses itself among the trees.

Gray moss, wall flowers, ivy, and grass were growing here and there out of crevices in the
castle walls, as I looked down, sometimes trailing their rippling tendrils in the river. This
vegetative propensity of walls is one of the chief graces of these old buildings.

In the state bed room were a bed and furnishings of rich, crimson velvet, once belonging to
Queen Anne, and presented by George III. to the Warwick family. The walls are hung with Brussels
tapestry, representing the gardens of Versailles as they were at the time. The chimney-piece,
which is sculptured of verde antique and white marble, supports two black marble vases on its
mantel. Over the mantel-piece is a full-length portrait of Queen Anne, in a rich brocade dress,
wearing the collar and jewels of the Garter, bearing in one hand a sceptre, and in the other
a globe. There are two splendid buhl cabinets in the room, and a table of costly stone from
Italy; it is mounted on a richly carved and gilt stand.

The boudoir, which adjoins, is hung with pea-green satin and velvet. In this room is one of
the most authentic portraits of Henry VIII., by Holbein, in which that selfish, brutal, unfeeling
tyrant is veritably set forth, with all the gold and gems which, in his day, blinded mankind;
his fat, white hands were beautifully painted. Men have found out Henry VIII. by this time;
he is a dead sinner, and nothing more is to be expected of him, and so he gets a just award;
but the disposition which bows down and worships any thing of any character in our day which
is splendid and successful, and excuses all moral delinquencies, if they are only available,
is not a whit better than that which cringed before Henry.

In the same room was a boar hunt, by Rubens, a disagreeable subject, but wrought with wonderful
power. There were several other pictures of Holbein's in this room; one of Martin Luther.

We passed through a long corridor, whose sides were lined with pictures, statues, busts, &c.
Out of the multitude, three particularly interested me; one was a noble but melancholy bust
of the Black Prince, beautifully chiselled in white marble; another was a plaster cast, said
to have been taken of the face of Oliver Cromwell immediately after death. The face had a homely
strength amounting almost to coarseness. The evidences of its genuineness appear in glancing
at it; every thing is authentic, even to the wart on his lip; no one would have imagined such
a one, but the expression was noble and peaceful, bringing to mind the oft-quoted words,--

  "After life's fitful fever, he sleeps well."

At the end of the same corridor is a splendid picture of Charles I. on horseback, by Vandyke,
a most masterly performance, and appearing in its position almost like a reality. Poor Charles
had rather hard measure, it always seemed to me. He simply did as all other princes had done
before him; that is to say, he lied steadily, invariably, and conscientiously, in every instance
where he thought he could gain any thing by it, just as Charles V., and Francis IV., and Catharine
de Medicis, and Henry VIII., and Elizabeth, and James, and all good royal folks had always
done; and lo! he must lose his head for it. His was altogether a more gentlemanly and respectable
performance than that of Henry, not wanting in a sort of ideal magnificence, which his brutal
predecessor, or even his shambling old father never dreamed of. But so it is; it is not always
on those who are sinners above all men that the tower of Siloam falls, but only on those who
happen to be under it when its time comes. So I intend to cherish a little partiality for gentlemanly,
magnificent Charles I.; and certainly one could get no more splendid idea of him than by seeing
him stately, silent, and melancholy on his white horse, at the end of this long corridor. There
he sits, facing the calm, stony, sleeping face of Oliver, and neither question or reply passes
between them.

From this corridor we went into the chapel, whose Gothic windows, filled with rich, old painted
glass, cast a many-colored light over the oak-carved walls and altar-piece. The ceiling is
of fine, old oak, wrought with the arms of the family. The window over the altar is the gift
of the Earl of Essex. This room is devoted to the daily religious worship of the family. It
has been the custom of the present earl in former years to conduct the devotions of the family
here himself.

About this time my head and eyes came to that point which Solomon intimates to be not commonly
arrived at by mortals--when the eye is satisfied with seeing. I remember a confused ramble
through apartment after apartment, but not a single thing in them, except two pictures of Salvator
Rosa's, which I thought extremely ugly, and was told, as people always are when they make such
declarations, that the difficulty was entirely in myself, and that if I would study them two
or three months in faith, I should perceive something very astonishing. This may be, but it
holds equally good of the coals of an evening fire, or the sparks on a chimney back; in either
of which, by resolute looking, and some imagination, one can see any thing he chooses. I utterly
distrust this process, by which old black pictures are looked into shape; but then I have nothing
to lose, being in the court of the Gentiles in these matters, and obstinately determined not
to believe in any real presence in art which I cannot perceive by my senses.

After having examined all the upper stories, we went down into the vaults underneath--vaults
once grim and hoary, terrible to captives and feudal enemies, now devoted to no purpose more
grim than that of coal cellars and wine vaults. In Oliver's time, a regiment was quartered
there: they are extensive enough, apparently, for an army.

The kitchen and its adjuncts are of magnificent dimensions, and indicate an amplitude in the
way of provision for good cheer worthy an ancient house; and what struck me as a still better
feature was a library of sound, sensible, historical, and religious works for the servants.

We went into the beer vaults, where a man drew beer into a long black jack, such as Scott describes.
It is a tankard, made of black leather, I should think half a yard deep. He drew the beer from
a large hogshead, and offered us some in a glass. It looked very clear, but, on tasting, I
found it so exceedingly bitter that it struck me there would be small virtue for me in abstinence.

In passing up to go out of the house, we met in the entry two pleasant-looking young women,
dressed in white muslin. As they passed us, a door opened where a table was handsomely set
out, at which quite a number of well-dressed people were seating themselves. I withdrew my
eyes immediately, fearing lest I had violated some privacy. Our conductor said to us, "That
is the upper servants' dining room."

Once in the yard again, we went to see some of the older parts of the building. The oldest
of these, Caesar's Tower, which is said to go back to the time of the Romans, is not now shown
to visitors. Beneath it is a dark, damp dungeon, where prisoners used to be confined, the walls
of which are traced all over with inscriptions and rude drawings.

Then you are conducted to Guy's Tower, named, I suppose, after the hero of the green dragon
and dun cow. Here are five tiers of guard rooms, and by the ascent of a hundred and thirty-three
steps you reach the battlements, where you gain a view of the whole court and grounds, as well
as of the beautiful surrounding landscape.

In coming down from this tower, we somehow or other got upon the ramparts, which connect it
with the great gate. We walked on the wall four abreast, and played that we were knights and
ladies of the olden time, walking on the ramparts. And I picked a bough from an old pine tree
that grew over our heads; it much resembled our American yellow pitch pine.

Then we went down and crossed the grounds to the greenhouse, to see the famous Warwick vase.
The greenhouse is built with a Gothic stone front, situated on a fine point in the landscape.
And there, on a pedestal, surrounded by all manner of flowering shrubs, stands this celebrated
antique. It is of white marble, and was found at the bottom of a lake near Adrian's villa,
in Italy. They say that it holds a hundred and thirty-six gallons; constructed, I suppose,
in the roistering old drinking times of the Roman emperors, when men seem to have discovered
that the grand object for which they were sent into existence was to perform the functions
of wine skins. It is beautifully sculptured with grape leaves, and the skin and claws of the
panther--these latter certainly not an inappropriate emblem of the god of wine, beautiful,
but dangerous.

Well, now it was all done. Merodach Baladan had not a more perfect exposé of the riches of
Hezekiah than we had of the glories of Warwick. One always likes to see the most perfect thing
of its kind; and probably this is the most perfect specimen of the feudal ages yet remaining
in England.

As I stood with Joseph Sturge under the old cedars of Lebanon, and watched the multitude of
tourists, and parties of pleasure, who were thronging the walks, I said to him, "After all,
this establishment amounts to a public museum and pleasure grounds for the use of the people."
He assented. "And," said I, "you English people like these things; you like these old magnificent
seats, kept up by old families." "That is what I tell them," said Joseph Sturge. "I tell them
there is no danger in enlarging the suffrage, for the people would not break up these old establishments
if they could." On that point, of course, I had no means of forming an opinion.

One cannot view an institution so unlike any thing we have in our own country without having
many reflections excited, for one of these estates may justly be called an institution; it
includes within itself all the influence on a community of a great model farm, of model housekeeping,
of a general museum of historic remains, and of a gallery of fine arts.

It is a fact that all these establishments through England are, at certain fixed hours, thrown
open for the inspection of whoever may choose to visit them, with no other expense than the
gratuity which custom requires to be given to the servant who shows them. I noticed, as we
passed from one part of the ground to another, that our guides changed--one part apparently
being the perquisite of one servant, and one of another. Many of the servants who showed them
appeared to be superannuated men, who probably had this post as one of the dignities and perquisites
of their old age.

The influence of these estates on the community cannot but be in many respects beneficial,
and should go some way to qualify the prejudice with which republicans are apt to contemplate
any thing aristocratic; for although the legal title to these things inheres in but one man,
yet in a very important sense they belong to the whole community, indeed, to universal humanity.
It may be very undesirable and unwise to wish to imitate these institutions in America, and
yet it may be illiberal to undervalue them as they stand in England. A man would not build
a house, in this nineteenth century, on the pattern of a feudal castle; and yet where the feudal
castle is built, surely its antique grace might plead somewhat in its favor, and it may be
better to accommodate it to modern uses, than to level it, and erect a modern mansion in its place.

Nor, since the world is wide, and now being rapidly united by steam into one country, does
the objection to these things, on account of the room they take up, seem so great as formerly.
In the million of square miles of the globe there is room enough for all sorts of things.

With such reflections the lover of the picturesque may comfort himself, hoping that he is not
sinning against the useful in his admiration of the beautiful.

One great achievement of the millennium, I trust, will be in uniting these two elements, which
have ever been contending. There was great significance in the old Greek fable which represented
Venus as the divinely-appointed helpmeet of Vulcan, and yet always quarrelling with him.

We can scarce look at the struggling, earth-bound condition of useful labor through the world
without joining in the beautiful aspiration of our American poet,--

  "Surely, the wiser time shall come
     When this fine overplus of might,
  No longer sullen, slow, and dumb,
    Shall leap to music and to light.

  In that new childhood of the world
    Life of itself shall dance and play,
  Fresh blood through Time's shrunk veins be hurled,
    And labor meet delight half way."[M]

In the new state of society which we are trying to found in America, it must be our effort
to hasten the consummation. These great estates of old countries may keep it for their share
of the matter to work out perfect models, while we will seize the ideas thus elaborated, and
make them the property of the million.

As we were going out, we stopped a little while at the porter's lodge to look at some relics.

Now, I dare say that you have been thinking, all the while, that these stories about the wonderful
Guy are a sheer fabrication, or, to use a convenient modern term, a myth. Know, then, that
the identical armor belonging to him is still preserved here; to wit, the sword, about seven
feet long, a shield, helmet, breastplate, and tilting pole, together with his porridge pot,
which holds one hundred and twenty gallons, and a large fork, as they call it, about three
feet long; I am inclined to think this must have been his toothpick! His sword weighs twenty
pounds.

There is, moreover, a rib of the mastodon cow which he killed, hung up for the terror of all
refractory beasts of that name in modern days.

Furthermore, know, then, that there are authentic documents in the Ashmolean Museum, at Oxford,
showing that the family run back to within four years after the birth of Christ, so that there
is abundance of time for them to have done a little of almost every thing. It appears that
they have been always addicted to exploits, since we read of one of them, soon after the Christian
era, encountering a giant, who ran upon him with a tree which he had snapped off for the purpose,
for it seems giants were not nice in the choice of weapons; but the chronicler says, "The Lord
had grace with him, and overcame the giant," and in commemoration of this event the family
introduced into their arms the ragged staff.

It is recorded of another of the race, that he was one of seven children born at a birth, and
that all the rest of his brothers and sisters were, by enchantment, turned into swans with
gold collars. This remarkable case occurred in the time of the grandfather of Sir Guy, and
of course, if we believe this, we shall find no difficulty in the case of the cow, or any thing
else.

There is a very scarce book in the possession of a gentleman of Warwick, written by one Dr.
John Kay, or caius, in which he gives an account of the rare and peculiar animals of England
in 1552. In this he mentioned seeing the bones of the head and the vertebrae of the neck of
an enormous animal at Warwick Castle. He states that the shoulder blade was hung up by chains
from the north gate of Coventry, and that a rib of the same animal was hanging up in the chapel
of Guy, Earl of Warwick, and that the people fancied it to be the rib of a cow which haunted
a ditch near Coventry, and did injury to many persons; and he goes on to imagine that this
may be the bone of a bonasus or a urus. He says, "It is probable many animals of this kind
formerly lived in our England, being of old an island full of woods and forests, because even
in our boyhood the horns of these animals were in common use at the table." The story of Sir
Guy is furthermore quite romantic, and contains some circumstances very instructive to all
ladies. For the chronicler asserts, "that Dame Felye, daughter and heire to Erle Rohand, for
her beauty called Fely le Belle, or Felys the Fayre, by true enheritance, was Countesse of
Warwyke, and lady and wyfe to the most victoriouse Knight, Sir Guy, to whom in his woing tyme
she made greate straungeres, and caused him, for her sake, to put himself in meny greate distresses,
dangers, and perills; but when they were wedded, and b'en but a little season together, he
departed from her, to her greate hevynes, and never was conversant with her after, to her understandinge."
That this may not appear to be the result of any revengeful spirit on the part of Sir Guy,
the chronicler goes on further to state his motives--that, after his marriage, considering
what he had done for a woman's sake, he thought to spend the other part of his life for God's
sake, and so departed from his lady in pilgrim weeds, which raiment he kept to his life's end.
After wandering about a good many years he settled in a hermitage, in a place not far from
the castle, called Guy's Cliff, and when his lady distributed food to beggars at the castle
gate, was in the habit of coming among them to receive alms, without making himself known to
her. It states, moreover, that two days before his death an angel informed him of the time
of his departure, and that his lady would die a fortnight after him, which happening accordingly,
they were both buried in the grave together. A romantic cavern, at the place called Guy's Cliff,
is shown as the dwelling of the recluse. The story is a curious relic of the religious ideas
of the times.

On our way from the castle we passed by Guy's Cliff, which is at present the seat of the Hon.
C.B. Percy. The establishment looked beautifully from the road, as we saw it up a long avenue
of trees; it is one of the places travellers generally examine, but as we were bound for Kenilworth
we were content to take it on trust. It is but a short drive from there to Kenilworth. We got
there about the middle of the afternoon. Kenilworth has been quite as extensive as Warwick,
though now entirely gone to ruins. I believe Oliver Cromwell's army have the credit of finally
dismantling it. Cromwell seems literally to have left his mark on his generation, for I never
saw a ruin in England when I did not hear that he had something to do with it. Every broken
arch and ruined battlement seemed always to find a sufficient account of itself by simply enunciating
the word Cromwell. And when we see how much the Puritans arrayed against themselves all the
æsthetic principles of our nature, we can somewhat pardon those who did not look deeper than
the surface, for the prejudice with which they regarded the whole movement; a movement, however,
of which we, and all which is most precious to us, are the lineal descendants and heirs.

We wandered over the ruins, which are very extensive, and which Scott, with his usual vivacity
and accuracy, has restored and repeopled. We climbed up into Amy Robsart's chamber; we scrambled
into one of the arched windows of what was formerly the great dining hall, where Elizabeth
feasted in the midst of her lords and ladies, and where every stone had rung to the sound of
merriment and revelry. The windows are broken out; it is roofless and floorless, waving and
rustling with pendent ivy, and vocal with the song of hundreds of little birds.

We wandered from room to room, looking up and seeing in the walls the desolate fireplaces,
tier over tier, the places where the beams of the floors had gone into the walls, and still
the birds continued their singing every where.

Nothing affected me more than this ceaseless singing and rejoicing of birds in these old gray
ruins. They seemed so perfectly joyous and happy amid the desolations, so airy and fanciful
in their bursts of song, so ignorant and careless of the deep meaning of the gray desolation
around them, that I could not but be moved. It was nothing to them how these stately, sculptured
walls became lonely and ruinous, and all the weight of a thousand thoughts and questionings
which arise to us is never even dreamed by them. They sow not, neither do they reap, but their
heavenly Father feeds them; and so the wilderness and the desolate place is glad in them, and
they are glad in the wilderness and desolate place.

It was a beautiful conception, this making of birds. Shelley calls them "imbodied joys;" and
Christ says, that amid the vaster ruins of man's desolation, ruins more dreadfully suggestive
than those of sculptured frieze and architrave, we can yet live a bird's life of unanxious
joy; or, as Martin Luther beautifully paraphrases it, "We can be like a bird, that sits singing
on his twig and lets God think for him."

The deep consciousness that we are ourselves ruined, and that this world is a desolation more
awful, and of more sublime material, and wrought from stuff of higher temper than ever was
sculptured in hall or cathedral, this it must be that touches such deep springs of sympathy
in the presence of ruins. We, too, are desolate, shattered, and scathed; there are traceries
and columns of celestial workmanship; there are heaven-aspiring arches, splendid colonnades
and halls, but fragmentary all. Yet above us bends an all-pitying Heaven, and spiritual voices
and callings in our hearts, like these little singing birds, speak of a time when almighty
power shall take pleasure in these stones, and favor the dust thereof.

We sat on the top of the strong tower, and looked off into the country, and talked a good while.
Some of the ivy that mantles this building has a trunk as large as a man's body, and throws
out numberless strong arms, which, interweaving, embrace and interlace half-falling towers,
and hold them up in a living, growing mass of green.

The walls of one of the oldest towers are sixteen feet thick. The lake, which Scott speaks
of, is dried up and grown over with rushes. The former moat presents only a grassy hollow.
What was formerly a gate house is still inhabited by the family who have the care of the building.
The land around the gate house is choicely and carefully laid out, and has high, clipped hedges
of a species of variegated holly.

Thus much of old castles and ivy. Farewell to Kenilworth.

LETTER XII.

MY DEAR H.:--

After leaving Kenilworth we drove to Coventry, where we took the cars again. This whole ride
from Stratford to Warwick, and on to Coventry, answers more to my ideas of old England than
any thing I have seen; it is considered one of the most beautiful parts of the kingdom. It
has quaint old houses, and a certain air of rural, picturesque quiet, which is very charming.

Coventry is old and queer, with narrow streets and curious houses, famed for the ancient legend
of Godiva, one of those beautiful myths that grow, like the mistletoe, on the bare branches
of history, and which, if they never were true in the letter, have been a thousand times true
in the spirit.

The evening came on raw and chilly, so that we rejoiced to find ourselves once more in the
curtained parlor by the bright, sociable fire.

Burritt's mode of operation has been by the silent organization of circles of ladies in all
the different towns of the United Kingdom, who raise a certain sum for the diffusion of the
principles of peace on earth and good will to men. Articles, setting forth the evils of war,
moral, political, and social, being prepared, these circles pay for their insertion in all
the principal newspapers of the continent. They have secured to themselves in this way a continual
utterance in France, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, and Germany; so that from week to
week, and month to month, they can insert articles upon these subjects. Many times the editors
insert the articles as editorial, which still further favors their design. In addition to this,
the ladies of these circles in England correspond with the ladies of similar circles existing
in other countries; and in this way there is a mutual kindliness of feeling established through
these countries.

When recently war was threatening between England and France, through the influence of these
societies conciliatory addresses were sent from many of the principal towns of England to many
of the principal towns of France; and the effect of these measures in allaying irritation and
agitation was very perceptible.

Furthermore, these societies are preparing numerous little books for children, in which the
principles of peace, kindness, and mutual forbearance are constantly set forth, and the evil
and unchristian nature of the mere collision of brute force exemplified in a thousand ways.
These tracts also are reprinted in the other modern languages of Europe, and are becoming a
part of family literature.

The object had in view by those in this movement is, the general disbandment of standing armies
and warlike establishments, and the arrangement, in their place, of some settled system of
national arbitration. They suggest the organization of some tribunal of international law,
which shall correspond to the position of the Supreme Court of the United States with reference
to the several states. The fact that the several states of our Union, though each a distinct
sovereignty, yet agree in this arrangement, is held up as an instance of its practicability.
These ideas are not to be considered entirely chimerical, if we reflect that commerce and trade
are as essentially opposed to war as is Christianity. War is the death of commerce, manufactures,
agriculture, and the fine arts. Its evil results are always certain and definite, its good
results scattered and accidental. The whole current of modern society is as much against war
as against slavery; and the time must certainly come when some more rational and humane mode
of resolving national difficulties will prevail.

When we ask these reformers how people are to be freed from the yoke of despotism without war,
they answer, "By the diffusion of ideas among the masses--by teaching the bayonets to think."
They say, "If we convince every individual soldier of a despot's army that war is ruinous,
immoral, and unchristian, we take the instrument out of the tyrant's hand. If each individual
man would refuse to rob and murder for the Emperor of Austria, and the Emperor of Russia, where
would be their power to hold Hungary? What gave power to the masses in the French revolution,
but that the army, pervaded by new ideas, refused any longer to keep the people down?"

