"Sir Knight, whoever thou art, I bid thee welcome.  If thou art of mortal mould, thy valour
shall meet its equal:  and if thou art a true Knight, thou wilt scorn to employ sorcery to
carry thy point. Be these omens from heaven or hell, Manfred trusts to the righteousness of
his cause and to the aid of St. Nicholas, who has ever protected his house.  Alight, Sir Knight,
and repose thyself. To-morrow thou shalt have a fair field, and heaven befriend the juster side!"

The Knight made no reply, but dismounting, was conducted by Manfred to the great hall of the
castle.  As they traversed the court, the Knight stopped to gaze on the miraculous casque;
and kneeling down, seemed to pray inwardly for some minutes.  Rising, he made a sign to the
Prince to lead on.  As soon as they entered the hall, Manfred proposed to the stranger to disarm,
but the Knight shook his head in token of refusal.

"Sir Knight," said Manfred, "this is not courteous, but by my good faith I will not cross thee,
nor shalt thou have cause to complain of the Prince of Otranto.  No treachery is designed on
my part; I hope none is intended on thine; here take my gage" (giving him his ring):  "your
friends and you shall enjoy the laws of hospitality. Rest here until refreshments are brought.
I will but give orders for the accommodation of your train, and return to you."  The three
Knights bowed as accepting his courtesy.  Manfred directed the stranger's retinue to be conducted
to an adjacent hospital, founded by the Princess Hippolita for the reception of pilgrims. 
As they made the circuit of the court to return towards the gate, the gigantic sword burst
from the supporters, and falling to the ground opposite to the helmet, remained immovable.
Manfred, almost hardened to preternatural appearances, surmounted the shock of this new prodigy;
and returning to the hall, where by this time the feast was ready, he invited his silent guests
to take their places. Manfred, however ill his heart was at ease, endeavoured to inspire the
company with mirth.  He put several questions to them, but was answered only by signs.  They
raised their vizors but sufficiently to feed themselves, and that sparingly.

"Sirs" said the Prince, "ye are the first guests I ever treated within these walls who scorned
to hold any intercourse with me: nor has it oft been customary, I ween, for princes to hazard
their state and dignity against strangers and mutes.  You say you come in the name of Frederic
of Vicenza; I have ever heard that he was a gallant and courteous Knight; nor would he, I am
bold to say, think it beneath him to mix in social converse with a Prince that is his equal,
and not unknown by deeds in arms.  Still ye are silent-- well! be it as it may--by the laws
of hospitality and chivalry ye are masters under this roof:  ye shall do your pleasure.  But
come, give me a goblet of wine; ye will not refuse to pledge me to the healths of your fair
mistresses."

The principal Knight sighed and crossed himself, and was rising from the board.

"Sir Knight," said Manfred, "what I said was but in sport.  I shall constrain you in nothing:
use your good liking.  Since mirth is not your mood, let us be sad.  Business may hit your
fancies better.  Let us withdraw, and hear if what I have to unfold may be better relished
than the vain efforts I have made for your pastime."

Manfred then conducting the three Knights into an inner chamber, shut the door, and inviting
them to be seated, began thus, addressing himself to the chief personage:-

"You come, Sir Knight, as I understand, in the name of the Marquis of Vicenza, to re-demand
the Lady Isabella, his daughter, who has been contracted in the face of Holy Church to my son,
by the consent of her legal guardians; and to require me to resign my dominions to your Lord,
who gives himself for the nearest of blood to Prince Alfonso, whose soul God rest!  I shall
speak to the latter article of your demands first.  You must know, your Lord knows, that I
enjoy the principality of Otranto from my father, Don Manuel, as he received it from his father,
Don Ricardo.  Alfonso, their predecessor, dying childless in the Holy Land, bequeathed his
estates to my grandfather, Don Ricardo, in consideration of his faithful services."  The stranger
shook his head.

"Sir Knight," said Manfred, warmly, "Ricardo was a valiant and upright man; he was a pious
man; witness his munificent foundation of the adjoining church and two converts.  He was peculiarly
patronised by St. Nicholas--my grandfather was incapable--I say, Sir, Don Ricardo was incapable--excuse
me, your interruption has disordered me.  I venerate the memory of my grandfather.  Well, Sirs,
he held this estate; he held it by his good sword and by the favour of St. Nicholas--so did
my father; and so, Sirs, will I, come what come will.  But Frederic, your Lord, is nearest
in blood. I have consented to put my title to the issue of the sword.  Does that imply a vicious
title?  I might have asked, where is Frederic your Lord?  Report speaks him dead in captivity.
You say, your actions say, he lives--I question it not--I might, Sirs, I might-- but I do not.
Other Princes would bid Frederic take his inheritance by force, if he can:  they would not
stake their dignity on a single combat:  they would not submit it to the decision of unknown
mutes!--pardon me, gentlemen, I am too warm: but suppose yourselves in my situation:  as ye
are stout Knights, would it not move your choler to have your own and the honour of your ancestors
called in question?"

"But to the point.  Ye require me to deliver up the Lady Isabella. Sirs, I must ask if ye are
authorised to receive her?"

The Knight nodded.

"Receive her," continued Manfred; "well, you are authorised to receive her, but, gentle Knight,
may I ask if you have full powers?"

The Knight nodded.

"'Tis well," said Manfred; "then hear what I have to offer.  Ye see, gentlemen, before you,
the most unhappy of men!" (he began to weep); "afford me your compassion; I am entitled to
it, indeed I am.  Know, I have lost my only hope, my joy, the support of my house--Conrad died
yester morning."

The Knights discovered signs of surprise.

"Yes, Sirs, fate has disposed of my son.  Isabella is at liberty."

"Do you then restore her?" cried the chief Knight, breaking silence.

"Afford me your patience," said Manfred.  "I rejoice to find, by this testimony of your goodwill,
that this matter may be adjusted without blood.  It is no interest of mine dictates what little
I have farther to say.  Ye behold in me a man disgusted with the world:  the loss of my son
has weaned me from earthly cares.  Power and greatness have no longer any charms in my eyes.
I wished to transmit the sceptre I had received from my ancestors with honour to my son--but
that is over!  Life itself is so indifferent to me, that I accepted your defiance with joy.
A good Knight cannot go to the grave with more satisfaction than when falling in his vocation:
whatever is the will of heaven, I submit; for alas! Sirs, I am a man of many sorrows.  Manfred
is no object of envy, but no doubt you are acquainted with my story."

The Knight made signs of ignorance, and seemed curious to have Manfred proceed.

"Is it possible, Sirs," continued the Prince, "that my story should be a secret to you?  Have
you heard nothing relating to me and the Princess Hippolita?"

They shook their heads.

"No!  Thus, then, Sirs, it is.  You think me ambitious:  ambition, alas! is composed of more
rugged materials.  If I were ambitious, I should not for so many years have been a prey to
all the hell of conscientious scruples.  But I weary your patience:  I will be brief.  Know,
then, that I have long been troubled in mind on my union with the Princess Hippolita.  Oh!
Sirs, if ye were acquainted with that excellent woman! if ye knew that I adore her like a mistress,
and cherish her as a friend--but man was not born for perfect happiness!  She shares my scruples,
and with her consent I have brought this matter before the church, for we are related within
the forbidden degrees.  I expect every hour the definitive sentence that must separate us for
ever--I am sure you feel for me- -I see you do--pardon these tears!"

The Knights gazed on each other, wondering where this would end.

Manfred continued -

"The death of my son betiding while my soul was under this anxiety, I thought of nothing but
resigning my dominions, and retiring for ever from the sight of mankind.  My only difficulty
was to fix on a successor, who would be tender of my people, and to dispose of the Lady Isabella,
who is dear to me as my own blood.  I was willing to restore the line of Alfonso, even in his
most distant kindred.  And though, pardon me, I am satisfied it was his will that Ricardo's
lineage should take place of his own relations; yet where was I to search for those relations?
I knew of none but Frederic, your Lord; he was a captive to the infidels, or dead; and were
he living, and at home, would he quit the flourishing State of Vicenza for the inconsiderable
principality of Otranto?  If he would not, could I bear the thought of seeing a hard, unfeeling,
Viceroy set over my poor faithful people? for, Sirs, I love my people, and thank heaven am
beloved by them.  But ye will ask whither tends this long discourse?  Briefly, then, thus,
Sirs.  Heaven in your arrival seems to point out a remedy for these difficulties and my misfortunes.
The Lady Isabella is at liberty; I shall soon be so. I would submit to anything for the good
of my people.  Were it not the best, the only way to extinguish the feuds between our families,
if I was to take the Lady Isabella to wife?  You start. But though Hippolita's virtues will
ever be dear to me, a Prince must not consider himself; he is born for his people."  A servant
at that instant entering the chamber apprised Manfred that Jerome and several of his brethren
demanded immediate access to him.

The Prince, provoked at this interruption, and fearing that the Friar would discover to the
strangers that Isabella had taken sanctuary, was going to forbid Jerome's entrance.  But recollecting
that he was certainly arrived to notify the Princess's return, Manfred began to excuse himself
to the Knights for leaving them for a few moments, but was prevented by the arrival of the
Friars. Manfred angrily reprimanded them for their intrusion, and would have forced them back
from the chamber; but Jerome was too much agitated to be repulsed.  He declared aloud the flight
of Isabella, with protestations of his own innocence.

Manfred, distracted at the news, and not less at its coming to the knowledge of the strangers,
uttered nothing but incoherent sentences, now upbraiding the Friar, now apologising to the
Knights, earnest to know what was become of Isabella, yet equally afraid of their knowing;
impatient to pursue her, yet dreading to have them join in the pursuit.  He offered to despatch
messengers in quest of her, but the chief Knight, no longer keeping silence, reproached Manfred
in bitter terms for his dark and ambiguous dealing, and demanded the cause of Isabella's first
absence from the castle.  Manfred, casting a stern look at Jerome, implying a command of silence,
pretended that on Conrad's death he had placed her in sanctuary until he could determine how
to dispose of her. Jerome, who trembled for his son's life, did not dare contradict this falsehood,
but one of his brethren, not under the same anxiety, declared frankly that she had fled to
their church in the preceding night.  The Prince in vain endeavoured to stop this discovery,
which overwhelmed him with shame and confusion.  The principal stranger, amazed at the contradictions
he heard, and more than half persuaded that Manfred had secreted the Princess, notwithstanding
the concern he expressed at her flight, rushing to the door, said -

"Thou traitor Prince!  Isabella shall be found."

Manfred endeavoured to hold him, but the other Knights assisting their comrade, he broke from
the Prince, and hastened into the court, demanding his attendants.  Manfred, finding it vain
to divert him from the pursuit, offered to accompany him and summoning his attendants, and
taking Jerome and some of the Friars to guide them, they issued from the castle; Manfred privately
giving orders to have the Knight's company secured, while to the knight he affected to despatch
a messenger to require their assistance.

The company had no sooner quitted the castle than Matilda, who felt herself deeply interested
for the young peasant, since she had seen him condemned to death in the hall, and whose thoughts
had been taken up with concerting measures to save him, was informed by some of the female
attendants that Manfred had despatched all his men various ways in pursuit of Isabella.  He
had in his hurry given this order in general terms, not meaning to extend it to the guard he
had set upon Theodore, but forgetting it.  The domestics, officious to obey so peremptory a
Prince, and urged by their own curiosity and love of novelty to join in any precipitate chase,
had to a man left the castle.  Matilda disengaged herself from her women, stole up to the black
tower, and unbolting the door, presented herself to the astonished Theodore.

"Young man," said she, "though filial duty and womanly modesty condemn the step I am taking,
yet holy charity, surmounting all other ties, justifies this act.  Fly; the doors of thy prison
are open:  my father and his domestics are absent; but they may soon return.  Be gone in safety;
and may the angels of heaven direct thy course!"

"Thou art surely one of those angels!" said the enraptured Theodore:  "none but a blessed saint
could speak, could act--could look--like thee.  May I not know the name of my divine protectress?
Methought thou namedst thy father.  Is it possible?  Can Manfred's blood feel holy pity!  Lovely
Lady, thou answerest not.  But how art thou here thyself?  Why dost thou neglect thy own safety,
and waste a thought on a wretch like Theodore?  Let us fly together: the life thou bestowest
shall be dedicated to thy defence."

"Alas! thou mistakest," said Matilda, signing:  "I am Manfred's daughter, but no dangers await me."

"Amazement!" said Theodore; "but last night I blessed myself for yielding thee the service
thy gracious compassion so charitably returns me now."

"Still thou art in an error," said the Princess; "but this is no time for explanation.  Fly,
virtuous youth, while it is in my power to save thee:  should my father return, thou and I
both should indeed have cause to tremble."

"How!" said Theodore; "thinkest thou, charming maid, that I will accept of life at the hazard
of aught calamitous to thee?  Better I endured a thousand deaths."

"I run no risk," said Matilda, "but by thy delay.  Depart; it cannot be known that I have assisted
thy flight."

"Swear by the saints above," said Theodore, "that thou canst not be suspected; else here I
vow to await whatever can befall me."

"Oh! thou art too generous," said Matilda; "but rest assured that no suspicion can alight on me."

"Give me thy beauteous hand in token that thou dost not deceive me," said Theodore; "and let
me bathe it with the warm tears of gratitude."

"Forbear!" said the Princess; "this must not be."

