BY MRS. THOMAS GELDART.

AUTHOR OF "TRUTH IS EVERYTHING;" "NURSERY GUIDE;" "STORIES OF ENGLAND AND HER FORTY COUNTIES;"
AND "THOUGHTS FOR HOME."

MDCCCLI.

Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.... Matt v. 9.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER II.

THE SOFT ANSWER

CHAPTER III.

THE LESSON AT THE COTTAGE

CHAPTER IV.

THE HOLIDAYS

CHAPTER V.

EDITH'S TRIALS

CHAPTER VI.

EMILIE'S TRIALS

CHAPTER VII.

BETTER THINGS

CHAPTER VIII. 

He flatters the gorgeous flunkey at Chesney Wold by adroitly commending
his statuesque proportions, and hinting that he has a friend-- a Royal
Academy sculptor-- who may one of those days make a drawing of his
proportions.

Further, to elicit the confidence of the vain and empty-headed Jeames,
Bucket declares that his own father was successively a page, a footman,
a butler, a steward, and an innkeeper.

As Bucket moves along London streets, young men, with shining hats
and sleek hair, evaporate at the monitory touch of his cane.

When there is a big job on the tapis "Bucket and his fat forefinger
are much in consultation together.

He was dressed in a decent black with a white cravat.

Then as to Cuff's methods: He is introduced to the reader with the
usual air of mystery.

To the gardener's astonishment Cuff proved to be quite a mine of
learning on the trumpery subject of rose gardens.

As in the case of Bucket, the effective armor of Cuff is flattery."

You have got a head on your shoulders and you understand what I
mean, "is his typical style of address.

It is unnecessary to remind the reader that the detective of the novelist
cannot be foiled or turned aside by false scents from the unerring
pursuit of his lawful prey.

If by malice prepense Javert or Cuff is temporarily beguiled, it
is simply for the purpose of showing that the writer himself is in
reality a very much more ingenious person than even the subtle detective
he depicts for the delectation of his readers.

These tricks resemble those feints of failure common to professional
gymnasts and trapezists, purposely perpetrated with the object of
magnifying in the mind of the excited spectator the difficulty or
danger of the performance.

In our American literature the most popular detective stories are not composed of the imaginary
performances of fictitious characters. We have made a great advance on that unsatisfactory and
effete style. To satisfy the exacting palate of our reading people, we require a real flesh-and-blood
detective, with a popular name and reputation, to pose as the figurehead, while an ingenious scribbler
does the romancing. There is something thrilling and realistic in this method, and it carries
an air of veracity which is irresistibly attractive and convincing. The French people did something
of the same kind for Vidocq and Lecocq; but, as in most everything
else, there is a pervading breeziness and expansiveness of horizon
about the American product that is totally lacking in the blazé, frouzy,
over-geometrical, Gallic detective romance.

No doubt the popular conception of the detective has been derived from the flash literature
in which the" Old Sleuths "have formed the pervading figure. Concerning them, a clever ex-member
of that particular branch of the force recently said:" Now that I'm
out of the business I don't mind telling you what you perhaps already
know-- that the usual stories of detective work are the veriest bosh.

There is not one officer in ten thousand, for instance, who ever disguises himself for any work he
may be bent upon. The successful detective is the man who has the largest and most accurate knowledge
of a particular class of criminals. For instance, in a counterfeiting case there are one or two United
States officers who will look at a bill, and after a scrutiny will say,'Now, let's see; there
are three men in the country who are capable of such work as this. There is never any excuse for being what you call put out, by which I understand cross
and pettish, but I am rather amused, too, at your fixing on a daily governess, as a person
the least likely in the world to have trials of temper and patience." Sometimes, again, a man
is sufficiently infatuated to marry a lady with a soiled or shady reputation, and if that circumstance
becomes known to the Knight of Black-mail, it is morally certain that potential hush-money will
be extorted. My dear, there never was a person, you may be sure of that,
who had nothing to be tried, or, as you say, put out with. But not to talk of my troubles,
and I have not many I will confess, except that great one, Edith, which, may you be many years
before you know, (the loss of a father;) not to talk of that, what are your troubles? Your
mamma is cross sometimes, that is to say, she does not always give you all you ask for, crosses
you now and then, is that all?"

"Oh no Emilie, there are Mary and Ellinor, they never seem to like me to be with them, they
are so full of their own plans and secrets. Whenever I go into the room, there is such a hush
and mystery. The fact is, they treat me like a baby. Oh, it is a great misfortune to be the
youngest child! but of all my troubles, Fred is the greatest. John teases me sometimes, but
he is nothing to Fred. Emilie, you don't know what that boy is; but you will see, when you
come to stay with me in the holidays, and you shall say then if you think I have nothing to
put me out."

The very recollection of her wrongs appeared to irritate the little lady, and she put on a
pout, which made her look anything but kind and amiable.

The primroses which she had so much desired, were not quite to her mind, they were not nearly
so fine as those that John and Fred had brought home. Now she was tired of the dusty road,
and she would go home by the beach. So saying, Edith turned resolutely towards a stile, which
led across some fields to the sea shore, and not all Emilie's entreaties could divert her from
her purpose.

"Edith, dear! we shall be late, very late! as it is we have been out too long, come back, pray
do;" but Edith was resolute, and ran on. Emilie, who knew her pupil's self-will over a German
lesson, although she had little experience of her temper in other matters, was beginning to
despair of persuading her, and spoke yet more earnestly and firmly, though still kindly and
gently, but in vain. Edith had jumped over the stile, and was on her way to the cliff, when
her course was arrested by an old sailor, who was sitting on a bench near the gangway leading
to the shore. They are thus largely interested, not in the prevention and discovery of crime,
but in its perpetration and concealment. By this method they thrive, and their large incomes
and accumulated property are no doubt largely attributable to the
success of these delicate negotiations.

We are glad to bear testimony to the fact, however, that there is a great improvement in the
detective force of this city, noticeable during its present administration. The men now engaged
on the local detective force are as a class, those who have kept their eyes open, and have formed
a wide acquaintance among criminals in the district, and are therefore
able to obtain information from these crooks about the movements of
those suspected of having been mixed up in certain criminal work.

For when the reader reflects how easily criminals keep out of the reach of the police in St. Petersburg,
Paris and Vienna, where every concierge, every porter, every storekeeper,
every housekeeper, is required to report to the police at least once
a week all the details of strangers with whom they may have come in
contact, it should be no wonder that criminals can elude the police
in New York and other American cities.

Concerning the private detective agencies, it has been said by one
of their number: "They are no better than the regular officers so
far as skill is concerned.

The only real difference is that there is a superior intelligence in the make-up-- their disguise--
of the agency people. They are first-rate at shadowing a man, but any man with ordinary good sense,
who knows how to keep his mouth shut, will make a good shadow. If you will watch the private agency
men carefully you will find that they associate largely with the high-toned criminal class.
They are solid with one or two leaders and all the gamblers. All thieves of any prominence are
gamblers, and as soon as they turn a big trick, they are sure to turn up here or in some other
city and'play the bank'a little. The agency men who are associating with the gamblers hear of this
as soon as the crook strikes town, and a little inquiry set on foot will show where the crook
came from. If, then, in the course of a few days, a complaint is lodged with the agency people from
the town where the suspected party has been that a big confidence game has been played, or that
a forged or raised check has been worked on some bank or other institution,
it is not very hard to imagine that the thief who was recently so
flush is the one who turned the trick." There are a great many private
detective organizations in New York City, some of which are located
in elegant and commodious quarters, with a net-work of agencies covering
the whole country and extending even to Europe.

Between these reliable firms and the guttersnipe operator there are among detectives, as among other
professions, every grade of reliability and respectability, some making a handsome living and some earning
a bare existence. There are some thousands of them, and they all occasionally find something
to do which pays. It may be watching some money-broker's exchange down-town, for the dishonest boy
of some establishment clandestinely selling the postage stamps of
his firm.

It may be shadowing a confidential clerk, whose blood-shot eyes and generally "used-up" air
have attracted the notice of his employers, who thereupon desire to learn where and how his evenings are
spent.

It may be some bank clerk, hitherto enjoying the confidence of the directors, but who now,
in consequence of certain rumors, desire to have him watched. Or it may be any of a thousand
instances in which an employee ceases to retain the full confidence of his employer, and the convenient
private detective's services are at once put in requisition. Undoubtedly
it would greatly surprise the army of clerks, cashiers and assistants
of this and every great city to learn how many of them are thus under
detective espionage.

The young fellow may have fallen into the web of the siren. He may be down at Coney Island or at the
races enjoying himself; utterly unconscious that a pair of watchful
eyes is observing every motion and chronicling every act.

Some fatal morning the reckoning comes. Despite his proficiency in
bookkeeping, he will be unable to figure up and cover the money he has
squandered in gambling houses, on the street, or at the race-course.

"Crimine ab uno disce omnes," says Virgil.

From a single offense you may gather the nature of the whole. The detective who accepts employment
for the purpose of procuring testimony in divorce cases is undoubtedly at the nadir of his profession.
No self-respecting member of the private detective organizations will undertake the service even
when the pecuniary inducement, as is frequently the case, is large and tempting. For testimony
so procured is regarded by the courts with suspicion.

The
veracity of a person who would crawl into a house, peer through a key-hole or crane his head through a
transom window for the purpose of witnessing an act of immorality, can hardly be considered higher
than his sense of honor, decency and self-respect. When he stoops to this kind of business
he will hardly manifest any remarkable zeal for truth-telling, and he will be quite likely to
offer to sell his evidence to the other side-- a course which invariably transpires when the other side
is willing to pay for the information. Violations of conjugal faith
are, unfortunately, not unknown, but in the majority of cases the intrigue
progresses in secure secrecy until some wholly unforeseen accident
brings it to sudden and relentless publicity.

The recent case of a Brooklyn lady, who was carried into the city-hospital of that city about the beginning
of last June, with both legs broken, illustrates this position with singular force and aptness.
To quote from the article of the New York Sun of June 7, 1886: "Mrs.
Williams is young and pretty.'She is not bad,'her melancholy husband
said of her yesterday,'only gay like.'She has been married about ten
years, and two little children-- a boy and a girl-- are now longing
for a mother's care and tenderness, which she cannot give them perhaps
ever again.

The faithful husband of the unfortunate woman is a hard-working man,
honest if not dashing, devoted to his home, fond of his wife and proud
of his children.'I have been way down,'he says,'but I am getting good wages
now and getting on top again.

But Lizzie wasn't content with these things. She was full of life, and I ought to have watched
her long ago. Then this wouldn't have happened.'" What has happened is this: When Lizzie went
down on Fulton street on Saturday a week ago, ostensibly to make
some purchases, she didn't return that night.

Her husband's anxiety was increased when on Sunday he had no tidings of her. Day after day passed without
word, and he sent for a young woman friend of Mrs. Williams to come in and look after the children
and the household. "On Thursday a young man from East New York, a friend of Mrs. Williams and a relative
of a certain young lady friend of hers, stuck his head in the basement
window of Fainter Williams'house and said:"'Lizzy is in the City
Hospital.

She was hurt by a runaway, and both her legs are broken.'"Mrs. Williams had first sent word
to her East New York friend, who had thus taken the first tidings
of his wayward wife to her anxious husband.

Williams went at once to the hospital and found his Lizzie.

She told him she had been driving with a friend in Fulton avenue and had been hurt."'Who was
he?'Williams asked eagerly, the suspicions which he had been putting away from him for a long
time suddenly becoming convictions. "'None of your business,'said pretty Lizzie, defiantly. This
reply was calculated to satisfy her husband that all was not right.

In
fact, it convinced him that everything was wrong, and in his excitement and pain he upbraided
his wife with such vehemence that she called upon the hospital attendants to put him out of
the ward unless he quieted down."

Superintendent of Police Campbell heard of the alleged runaway in
Fulton street, and he wanted to know why it had never been reported
to him officially.

He began an investigation and learned that the mishap had occurred out on the Coney Island boulevard.
Mrs. Williams was confronted with this report. She denied its truth vehemently and protested'before
Almighty God'and in the presence of nurses and patients that she was run over and hurt in
Fulton street.

Nothing could move her from this statement, and when fifty witnesses to her accident sent word
to the Police Superintendent of what they had seen, she was not discomfited,
but repeated her false statements with determination.

"Mr. Williams says that his wife has for a long time nodded to sportive-looking
men as they have passed his Bergen street house, and her absences
from home have been irregular and sometimes prolonged indiscreetly
into the evening.

He has felt that her love of attention and social excitement was leading her beyond the bounds
of propriety, but he had no doubt until now of her faithfulness to him and her children." Who
took Mrs. Williams to drive on this eventful Saturday afternoon a
week ago is her secret, shared only by her escort.

Where they met is not known by anyone, but they started about four o'clock and drove through Prospect
Park to the Coney Island boulevard. The day was fine and many fashionable turnouts and flashy
rigs were on the road. Mrs. Williams, in her close-fitting and becoming
dark habit, sat beside a young man not over twenty-five years old,
in a road wagon of approved style, and behind a well-kept and fleet-footed
horse.

It was unmistakably a private rig. Her escort was of light hair and complexion, fashionably
dressed, and of a style that is called'giddy.'"Down the level road they drove at a good pace
toward the King's Highway, which crosses the boulevard about two and a half miles from the Park, and
just north of John Kelly's hospitable road house.

A short
distance before this point was reached ex-Alderman Ruggles of Brooklyn came bowling along at
a 2.40 gait, and he gave the young man who was driving Mrs. Williams a brush along an open stretch
of road. As they were speeding on toward Coney Island a dog-cart suddenly loomed up, coming from the
opposite direction, and bore down upon the racers." Mrs. Williams and her friend were on the right
side of the road and Alderman Ruggles was in the middle.

The dog-cart undertook to pass between them, and in doing so struck
the wheel of the light road wagon, throwing Mrs. Williams'companion
out.

He was not hurt, and he held on to the reins just long enough to check his horse's speed and
change his course. The spirited animal turned short across the road right in front of Kelly's and
the wagon was upset, throwing Mrs. Williams out. She fell under the wagon and her left ankle and
right thigh were fractured. A great many people saw the upset and ran to the injured woman's assistance......
"When Mr. Williams was told about the accident he said,'If that's so, I give her up. If she has done
that I am through with her. She cannot come back to me.

As long as she lies to me, to shield this other fellow, she may go to him. She can't come to
me.'" This giddy Brooklyn woman reckoned too much on her influence over her husband, when she
expected to soothe his resentment by holding her tongue. Those women who deceive good, indulgent
husbands, frequently discover, to their sorrow, that the most unmerciful
and inexorable of men are those who have been deceived by their idolized
partners.

Yet men of this kind would be far more likely to thrash a private detective, who had possessed
himself of the particulars of the amour in a sneaking way, than to
recompense him, and properly, while the courts would absolutely refuse
to receive such testimony unless abundantly corroborated.

For those and other considerations, which will readily occur to the
thoughtful reader, the detective who engages to get up testimony
in cases of marital unfaithfulness is regarded as quite ghoulish by
his fellow-detectives, and looked upon as being entirely unworthy
of credence by lawyers and courts.

After all that has been said the press is, on the whole, the best detective-- the most reliable
and efficient agent against evil-doers. When a crime is committed the daily newspaper, with
its Argus eyes, gives such minute and circumstantial details, together with such exhaustive particulars
concerning its environment, and the details of its perpetration and supposed authors, that the
public at large, so instructed and informed, become detectives. Hence "crooked" and wicked people are
really more afraid of the thunderbolt exposure of the newspapers
than of the slower and more uncertain action of the law.

CHAPTER XX. GAMBLING AND GAMBLERS. "And there were several offered any bet, Or that he would, or
that he would not come; For most men (till by losing rendered sager), Will back their own
opinions with a wager."-- Byron's "Beppo."

Some people are born gamblers, and resemble Jim Smiley, of Mark Twain's "Jumping Frog." Despite
all efforts of repressive legislation, games of chance are in vogue all over the country. Gambling
is practiced everywhere. Tourists to and from Europe engage in draw-poker and other games of chance,
while they make pools and lay wagers on the distance sailed per day, or the length of the voyage,
and on the number of the pilot-boat that will first be hailed. Gambling prevails on board those
splendid steamers that ply up and down the great rivers of the country, and more than one passenger,
driven to distraction by his losses at the gaming-table, has thrown himself overboard. Our legislators
occasionally while away the time in traveling between Albany and New York in a poker-game, and they
frequently meet each other at their lodgings around the capitol for the same purpose. At picnics
in summer, when Nature wears her most enticing garmenture, groups
of young men may be discovered separated from the merry-making multitude,
jammed into some nook with a pack of cards, cutting, dealing, playing,
revoking, scoring and snarling, wholly engrossed in the game.

No game of chance is more extensively played in New York City than policy. Many people are disposed
to regard policy as the negro's game exclusively, but this is a great mistake. Policy embraces
all classes in its ranks, and the white devotees of the game outnumber the colored five to one. Among
the patrons of the policy-shops which, despite police raids and surveillance, still flourish
in the district, of which the Post Office may be considered the focus, may be seen lawyers, journalists,
advertising agents, book-keepers, mechanics, liquor-dealers, bar-tenders, peddlers, insurance
agents, etc. Gamblers, as a class, are very superstitious, and the
white policy-player is hardly less so than his colored brother.

The latter dreams a good deal, while the former divides his time
between trying to guess the lucky numbers and avoiding evil omens.

Bad luck walks arm in arm with him beneath every ladder, and below
every safe that is being hoisted to a top-floor room. I don't know any good it does me to turn 'em over, and
look at them as I do times and often, but somehow when we lose them we love, we hoard up all
they loved. He had a little dog, poor Bob had, a little yapping thing, and I never took to
the animal, 'twas always getting into mischief, and gnawing the nets, and stealing my fish,
and I used often to say, 'Bob, my boy, I love you but not your dog. No, that saying won't hold
good now. I can't love that dog of yours. Sell it, boy--give it away--get rid of it some how.'
All in good part, you know, Miss, for I never had any words with him about it. And now Bob
is gone--do you know, Miss, I love that dumb thing with the sort of love I should love his
child, if he had left me one. If any one huffs Rover, (I ain't a very huffish man,) but I can
tell you I shew them I don't like it, I let the creature lay at my feet at night, and I feed
him myself and fondle him for the sake of him who loved him so. And you may depend Miss, the
dog knows his young master is gone, and the way he is gone too, for I could not bring him on
the shore for a long while, but he would set up such a howl as would rend your heart to hear.
And that made me love the poor thing I can tell you."

"But how did it happen?" softly asked Edith.

"Why Miss it ain't at all an extraordinary way in which he met his death. It was in this way.
He was very fond of me, poor boy, but he liked his way better than my way too often. And may
be I humoured him a little too much. He was my Benjamin, you must know Miss, for his mother
died soon after he was born. Sure enough I made an idol of the lad, and we read somewhere in
the Bible, Miss, that 'the idols he will utterly abolish.' But I don't like looking at the
sorrow that way neither. I would rather think that 'whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth.' Well,
Miss, like father like son. My boy loved the sea, as was natural he should, but he was too
venturesome; I used often to say, 'Bob, the oldest sailor living can't rule the waves and winds,
and if you are such a mad cap as to go out sailing in such equally weather on this coast, as
sure as you are alive you will repent it.' He and some young chaps hereabouts, got such a wonderful
notion of sailing, and though I have sailed many and many a mile, in large vessels and small,
I always hold to it that it is ticklish work for the young and giddy. Why sometimes you are
on the sea, Miss, ah, as calm as it is now--all in peace and safety--a squall comes, and before
you know what you are about you are capsized. I had told him this, and he knew it, Miss, but
he got a good many idle acquaintances, as I told you, and they tempted him often to do bold
reckless things such as boys call brave." 

"Yes, ladies, you furnish the good people of the Faubourg Saint-Germain with something to talk
about. It is said, Madame A..., that you are intimate with Monsieur B..., and you Madame C....,
with Monsieur D." On any intrigue chancing to appear in the police reports, "he loses no time
in informing the husband of what is going on."-- He is no less indiscreet in relation to his
own affairs; [1293] when it is over he divulges the fact and gives the name; furthermore, he
informs Josephine in detail and will not listen to any reproach: "I have a right to answer all
your objections with an eternal I!"

This term, indeed, answers to everything, and he explains it by adding: "I stand apart from
other men. I accept nobody's conditions," nor any species of obligation, no code whatever,
not even the common code of outward civility, which, diminishing or dissimulating primitive
brutality, allows men to associate together without clashing. He does not comprehend it, and
he repudiates it. "I have little liking," [1294] he says, "for that vague, leveling word propriety
(convenances), which you people fling out every chance you get. It is an invention of fools
who want to pass for clever men; a kind of social muzzle which annoys the strong and is useful
only to the mediocre... Ah, good taste! Another classic expression which I do not accept."
"It is your personal enemy"; says Talleyrand to him, one day, "if you could have shot it away
with bullets, it would have disappeared long ago!"-- It is because good taste is the highest
attainment of civilization, the innermost vestment which drapes human nudity, which best fits
the person, the last garment retained after the others have been cast off, and which delicate
tissue continues to hamper Napoleon; he throws it off instinctively,
because it interferes with his natural behavior, with the uncurbed,
dominating, savage ways of the vanquisher who knocks down his adversary
and treats him as he pleases.

V. His Policy.

His tone and bearing towards Sovereigns.-- His Policy.-- His means and ends.-- After Sovereigns he sets
populations against him.-- Final opinion of Europe.

Such behavior render social intercourse impossible, especially among the independent and armed
personages known as nations or States. This is why they are outlawed in politics and in diplomacy
and every head of a State or representative of a country, carefully and on principle, abstains
from them, at least with those on his own level. He is bound to treat these as his equals,
humor them, and, accordingly, not to give way to the irritation of the moment or to personal
feeling; in short, to exercise self-control and measure his words. To this is due the tone
of manifestos, protocols, dispatches, and other public documents the formal language of legations,
so cold, dry, and elaborated, those expressions purposely attenuated
and smoothed down, those long phrases apparently spun out mechanically
and always after the same pattern, a sort of soft wadding or international
buffer interposed between contestants to lessen the shocks of collision.

The reciprocal irritations between States are already too great; there are ever too many unavoidable
and regrettable encounters, too many causes of conflict, the consequences of which are too serious;
it is unnecessary to add to the wounds of interest the wounds of imagination and of pride; and
above all, it is unnecessary to amplify these without reason, at the risk of increasing the
obstacles of to-day and the resentments of to-morrow.-- With Napoleon it is just the opposite:
his attitude, even at peaceful interviews, remains aggressive and militant; purposely or in-voluntarily,
he raises his hand and the blow is felt to be coming, while, in the meantime, he insults.
In his correspondence with sovereigns, in his official proclamations, in his deliberations
with ambassadors, and even at public audiences, [1295] he provokes, threatens, and defies. [1296]
He treats his adversary with a lofty air, insults him often to his face, and charges him with the
most disgraceful imputations. [1297] He divulges the secrets of his private life, of his closet,
and of his bed; he defames or calumniates his ministers, his court, and his wife; [1298] he purposely
stabs him in the most sensitive part. He tells one that he is a dupe, a betrayed husband; another
that he is an abettor of assassination; he assumes the air of a judge condemning a criminal,
or the tone of a superior reprimanding an inferior, or, at best, that of a teacher taking a
scholar to task. With a smile of pity, he points out mistakes, weak points, and incapacity,
and shows him beforehand that he must be defeated. On receiving the envoy of the Emperor Alexander
at Wilna, [1299] be says to him: "Russia does not want this war;
none of the European powers are in favor of it; England herself does
not want it, for she foresees the harm it will do to Russia, and even,
perhaps, the greatest... I know as well as yourself, and perhaps even
better, how many troops you have.

Your infantry in all amounts to 120,000 men and your cavalry to about 60,000 or 70,000; I have
three times as many.... The Emperor Alexander is badly advised. How
can he tolerate such vile people around him-- an Armfeld, an intriguing,
depraved, rascally fellow, a ruined debauchee, who is known only
by his crimes and who is the enemy of Russia; a Stein, driven from
his country like an outcast, a miscreant with a price on his head;
a Bennigsen, who, it is said, has some military talent, of which I
know nothing, but whose hands are steeped in blood?

[12100].... Let him surround himself with the Russians and I will say nothing.... Have you no
Russian gentlemen among you who are certainly more attached to him than these mercenaries? Does
he imagine that they are fond of him personally? Let him put Armfeld in command in Finland and I
have nothing to say; but to have him about his person, for shame!.... What a superb perspective
opened out to the Emperor Alexander at Tilsit, and especially at Erfurt!.... He has spoilt the
finest reign Russia ever saw.... How can he admit to his society such men as a Stein, an Armfeld,
a Vinzingerode? Say to the Emperor Alexander, that as he gathers around him my personal enemies
it means a desire to insult me personally, and, consequently, that I must do the same to him.
I will drive all his Baden, Wurtemburg, and Weimar relations out of Germany. Let him provide a refuge
for them in Russia!" Note what he means by-- personal insult [12101], how he intends to avenge
himself by reprisals of the worst kind, to what excess he carries his interference, how he enters
the cabinets of foreign sovereigns, forcibly entering and breaking, to drive out their councilors and
control their meetings: like the Roman senate with an Antiochus or a Prusias, like an English
Resident with the King of Oude or of Lahore. With others as at home, he cannot help but act as
a master. The aspiration for universal dominion is in his very nature; it may be modified, kept
in check, but never can it be completely stifled.

"[12102] It declares itself on the organization of the Consulate. It explains why the peace of
Amiens could not last; apart from the diplomatic discussions and behind his alleged grievances, his
character, his exactions, his avowed plans, and the use he intends making
of his forces form the real and true causes of the rupture. In comprehensible
sometimes even in explicit terms, he tells the English: Expel the
Bourbons from your island and close the mouths of your journalists.

If this is against your constitution so much the worse for it, or so much the worse for you." There
are general principles of international law to which the (special)
laws of states must give way.

"[12103]
Change your fundamental laws. Suppress the freedom of the press and the right of asylum on your
soil, the same as I have done." I have a very poor opinion of a government which is not strong enough
to interdict things objectionable to foreign governments. "[12104] As to mine, my interference
with my neighbors, my late acquisitions of territory, that does not concern you:" I suppose that
you want to talk about Piedmont and Switzerland? These are trifles "[12105]" Europe recognizes
that Holland, Italy, and Switzerland are at the disposition of France. [12106] On the other
hand, Spain submits to me and through her I hold Portugal. Thus, from Amsterdam to Bordeaux, from Lisbon
to Cadiz and Genoa, from Leghorn to Naples and to Tarentum, I can close every port to you; no treaty
of commerce between us. Any treaty that I might grant to you would be trifling: for each million
of merchandise that you would send into France a million of French merchandise would be exported; [12107]
in other words, you would be subject to an open or concealed continental
blockade, which would cause you as much distress in peace as if you
were at war.

"My eyes are nevertheless fixed on Egypt;" six thousand Frenchmen would now suffice to re-conquer it ";
[12108] forcibly, or otherwise, I shall return there; opportunities will not be lacking, and I
shall be on the watch for them;" sooner or later she will belong to France, either through the dissolution
of the Ottoman empire, or through some arrangement with the Porte. "[12109] Evacuate Malta so
that the Mediterranean may become a French lake; I must rule on sea as on land, and dispose
of the Orient as of the Occident. In sum," with my France, England must naturally end in becoming
simply an appendix: nature has made her one of our islands, the same as Oleron or Corsica. "[12110]
Naturally, with such a perspective before them, the English keep Malta and recommence the war.
He has anticipated such an occurrence, and his resolution is taken; at
a glance, he perceives and measures the path this will open to him;
with his usual clear-sightedness he has comprehended, and he announces
that the English resistance" forces him to conquer Europe.... "[12111]--"
The First Consul is only thirty-three and has thus far destroyed only
the second-class governments. Who knows how much time he will require
to again change the face of Europe and resurrect the Western Roman
Empire?

"To subjugate the Continent in order to form a coalition against England, such, henceforth,
are his means, which are as violent as the end in view, while the means, like the end, are given
by his character. Too imperious and too impatient to wait or to manage others, he is incapable
of yielding to their will except through constraint, and his collaborators are to him nothing more
than subjects under the name of allies.-- Later, at St. Helena, with his indestructible imaginative
energy and power of illusion, he plays on the public with his humanitarian illusions. [12112]
But, as he himself avows, the accomplishment of his retrospective dream required beforehand the
entire submission of all Europe; a liberal sovereign and pacificator,"
a crowned Washington, yes, "he used to say," but I could not reasonably
attain this point, except through a universal dictatorship, which
I aimed at.

"[12113]
In vain does common sense demonstrate to him that such an enterprise inevitably rallies the Continent
to the side of England, and that his means divert him from the end. In vain is it repeatedly represented
to him that he needs one sure great ally on the Continent; [12114] that to obtain this he must conciliate
Austria; that he must not drive her to despair, but rather win her over and compensate her
on the side of the Orient; place her in permanent conflict with Russia, and attach her to the new
French Empire by a community of vital interests. In vain does he, after Tilsit, make a bargain
of this kind with Russia. This bargain cannot hold, because in this arrangement Napoleon, as
usual with him, always encroaching, threatening, and attacking, wants
to reduce Alexander to the role of a subordinate and a dupe. [12115]
No clear-sighted witness can doubt this. In 1809, a diplomat writes:"
The French system, which is now triumphant, is directed against the whole
body of great states, "[12116] not alone against England, Prussia,
and Austria, but against Russia, against every power capable of maintaining
its independence; for, if she remains independent, she may become
hostile, and as a precautionary step Napoleon crushes in her a probable
enemy.

All the more so because this course once entered upon he cannot stop;
at the same time his character and the situation in which he has placed himself
impels him on while his past hurries him along to his future. [12117]
At the moment of the rupture of the treaty of Amiens he is already so strong
and so aggressive that his neighbors are obliged, for their own security,
to form an alliance with England; this leads him to break down all
the old monarchies that are still intact, to conquer Naples, to mutilate
Austria the first time, to dismember and cut up Prussia, to mutilate
Austria the second time, to manufacture kingdoms for his brothers
at Naples, in Holland and in Westphalia.-- At this same date, all
the ports of his empire are closed against the English, which leads
him to close against them all the ports of the Continent, to organize
against them the continental blockade, to proclaim against them an
European crusade, to prevent the neutrality of sovereigns like the
Pope, of lukewarm subalterns like his brother Louis, of doubtful collaborators
or inadequate, like the Braganzas of Portugal and the Bourbons of
Spain, and therefore to get hold of Portugal, Spain, the Pontifical
States, and Holland, and next of the Hanseatic towns and the duchy
of Oldenburg, to extending along the entire coast, from the mouths
of the Cattaro and Trieste to Hamburg and Dantzic, his cordon of military
chiefs, prefects, and custom-houses, a sort of net of which he draws
the meshes tighter and tighter every day, even stifling not alone
his home consumer, but the producer and the merchant.

[12118]-- And all this sometimes by a simple decree, with no other
alleged motive than his interest, his convenience, or his pleasure,
[12119] brusquely and arbitrarily, in violation of international law,
humanity, and hospitality.

It would take volumes to describe his abuses of power, the tissue of brutalities and knaveries, [12120]
the oppression of the ally and despoiling of the vanquished, the military brigandage exercised over populations
in time of war, and by the systematic exactions practiced on them in times of peace. [12121] Accordingly,
after 1808, these populations rise against him. He has so deeply injured them in their interests,
and hurt their feelings to such an extent, [12122] he has so trodden them down, ransomed, and
forced them into his service. He has destroyed, apart from French lives, so many Spanish, Italian,
Austrian, Prussian, Swiss, Bavarian, Saxon, and Dutch lives, he has
slain so many men as enemies, he has enlisted such numbers at home,
and slain so many under his own banners as auxiliaries, that nations
are still more hostile to him than sovereigns.

Unquestionably, nobody can live together with such a character; his genius is too vast, too baneful,
and all the more because it is so vast. War will last as long as he reigns; it is in vain to reduce
him, to confine him at home, to drive him back within the ancient frontiers of France; no barrier
will restrain him; no treaty will bind him; peace with him will never be other than a truce;
he will use it simply to recover himself, and, as soon as he has done this, he will begin again;
[12123] he is in his very essence anti-social. The mind of Europe in this respect is made up definitely
and unshakably. One petty detail alone shows how unanimous and profound this conviction was. On
the 7th of March the news reached Vienna that he had escaped from the island of Elba, without
its being yet known where he would land. M. de Metternich [12124] brings the news to the Emperor
of Austria before eight o'clock in the morning, who says to him," Lose
no time in finding the King of Prussia and the Emperor of Russia,
and tell them that I am ready to order my army to march at once for France.
"At a quarter past eight M. de Metternich is with the Czar, and at half-past
eight, with the King of Prussia; both of them reply instantly in the
same manner." At nine o'clock, "says M. de Metternich," I was back. At ten
o'clock aids flew in every direction countermanding army orders....
Thus was war declared in less than an hour. "VI. Fundamental Defaults
of his System. Inward principle of his outward deportment.-- He subordinates
the State to him instead of subordinating himself to the State.--
Effect of this.-- His work merely a life-interest.-- It is ephemeral.--
Injurious.-- The number of lives it cost.-- The mutilation of France.--
Vice of construction in his European edifice.-- Analogous vice in his
French edifice.

Other heads of states have similarly passed their lives in doing
violence to mankind; but it was for something that was likely to last,
and for a national interest. What they deemed the public good was not
a phantom of the brain, a chimerical poem due to a caprice of the imagination,
to personal passions, to their own peculiar ambition and pride.

Outside of themselves and the
coinage of their brain a real and substantial object of prime importance
existed, namely, the State, the great body of society, the vast organism
which lasts indefinitely through the long series of interlinked and
responsible generations.

If they drew blood from the passing generation it was for the benefit of coming generations, to preserve
them from civil war or from foreign domination.

[12125] They have acted generally like able surgeons, if not through virtue, at least through dynastic
sentiment and family traditions; having practiced from father to son, they had acquired the professional
conscience; their first and only aim was the safety and health of their patient. It is for this
reason that they have not recklessly undertaken extravagant, bloody, and over-risky operations; rarely
have they given way to temptation through a desire to display their skill, through the need of
dazzling and astonishing the world, through the novelty, keenness, and success of their saws
and scalpels. They felt that a longer and superior existence to their own was imposed upon them;
they looked beyond them-selves as far as their sight would reach, and so took measures that the State
after them might do without them, live on intact, remain independent, vigorous, and respected
athwart the vicissitudes of European conflict and the uncertain problems of coming history. Such,
under the ancient régime, was what were called reasons of state;
these had prevailed in the councils of princes for eight hundred years;
along with unavoidable failures and after temporary deviations, these
had become for the time being and remained the preponderating motive.

Undoubtedly they excused or authorized many breaches of faith, many outrages, and, to come to the
word, many crimes; but, in the political order of things, especially in the management of external
affairs, they furnished a governing and a salutary principle. Under
its constant influence thirty monarchs had labored, and it is thus that,
province after province, they had solidly and enduringly built up France,
by ways and means beyond the reach of individuals but available to
the heads of States.

Now, this principle is lacking with their improvised successor. On the throne as in the camp, whether
general, consul, or emperor, he remains the military adventurer, and cares only for his own
advancement. Owing to the great defect in the education of both conscience and sentiments, instead
of subordinating himself to the State, he subordinates the State
to him; he does not look beyond his own brief physical existence to
the nation which is to survive him.

Consequently, he sacrifices the future to the present, and his work
is not to be enduring.

After him the deluge! Little does he care who utters this terrible phrase; and worse still, he earnestly
wishes, from the bottom of his heart that everybody should utter it." My brother, "said Joseph, in 1803, [12126]"
desires that the necessity of his existence should be so strongly felt, and the benefit of this considered so
great, that nobody could look beyond it without shuddering.

He knows, and he feels it, that he reigns through this idea rather than through
force or gratitude. If to-morrow, or on any day, it could be said,'Here
is a tranquil, established order of things, here is a known successor;
Bonaparte might die without fear of change or disturbance,'my brother
would no longer think himself secure.... Such is the principle which
governs him.

"In vain do years glide by, never does he think of putting France in a way to subsist without
him; on the contrary, he jeopardizes lasting acquisitions by exaggerated annexations, and it
is evident from the very first day that the Empire will end with
the Emperor. John, thus appealed to, laughed heartily at Miss Schomberg's
fears, said something not very complimentary about Miss S. speaking one word for the farmer's
stack, and two for her own nerves, and made his escape to join his brother, and the two young
farmers, who were delighted at the prospect of a frolic.

What was to be done? The lads were gone out, and doubtless would send up their rockets and
let off their squibs somewhere on the farm, which was a very extensive one. The very idea of
fire-works would put aunt Agnes into a terrible state of alarm, so Emilie held her peace. To
tell the farmer would, she knew, irritate him fearfully; and yet no time was to be lost. She
was older than any of the party, and it was in reliance on her discretion that the visit had
been permitted. She appealed to Edith, but Edith, who either had a little fancy to see the
fire-works, or, who feared her brothers' ridicule, or who thought Emilie took too much upon
herself, gave her no help in the matter.

"Well, Edith," said Emilie, when the farmer's wife left the room to make some preparation for
a sumptuous supper, "I have made up my mind what to do. I will not stay here if your brothers
are to run any foolish risks with those fire-works. I will go home at once, and tell your papa,
he will be in time to stop it; or I will apprise Mr. Crosse, and he can take what steps he
pleases."

"Well, you will have a fine life of it, Miss Schomberg, if you tell any tales, I can tell you,"
said Edith, pettishly, "and it really is no business of yours. She looked at them with eyes full
of supreme melancholy, and she frequently wept upon their shoulders.

In spite of her precautions, however, a thunder-bolt slipped in.

One day her father read at the table an item that met his eye. He repeated it aloud, on account of
the peculiar statement in the last line: "Detained on suspicion.--
A rough-looking fellow, who gave the name of Gorman, was arrested
on the high-road to Tuxbridge Springs for suspected complicity in
some recent robberies in the neighborhood.

He was fortunately able to give a pretty clear account of his late whereabouts and he was permitted
to depart with a caution from the justice. Nothing was found upon him but a few coppers and an old kid
glove wrapped in a bit of paper." Miss Eunice's soup spilled. This
was too much, and she fainted this time in right good earnest; and
she straightway became an invalid of the settled type.

They put her to bed.

The doctor told her plainly that he knew she had a secret, but she looked at him so imploringly
that he refrained from telling his fancies; but he ordered an immediate change of air. It
was settled at once that she should go to the "Springs"-- to Tuxbridge Springs. The doctor knew
there were young people there, also plenty of dancing. So she journeyed
thither with her pa and her ma and with pillows and servants.

They were shown to their rooms, and strong porters followed with the luggage. One of them had
her huge trunk upon his shoulder. He put it carefully upon the floor, and by so doing he disclosed
the ex-prisoner to Miss Eunice and Miss Eunice to himself.

He was astonished, but he remained silent. But she must needs be frightened
and fall into another fit of trembling.

After an awkward moment he went away, while she called to her father and begged piteously to
be taken away from Tuxbridge Springs instantly. There was no appeal. She hated, hated, HATED Tuxbridge
Springs, and she should die if she were forced to remain. She rained tears. She would give no reason,
but she could not stay. No, millions on millions could not persuade her; go she must. There
was no alternative. The party quitted the place within the hour, bag and baggage. Miss Eunice's
father was perplexed and angry, and her mother would have been angry
also if she had dared.

They went to other springs and stayed a month, but the patient's fright increased each day,
and so did her fever. She was full of distractions. In her dreams everybody laughed at her
as the one who had flirted with a convict. She would ever be pursued with the tale of her foolishness
and stupidity. Should he ever recover her self-respect and confidence?

She had become radically selfish. She forgot the old ideas of noble-heartedness
and self-denial, and her temper had become weak and childish.

She did not meet her puzzle face to face, but she ran away from it
with her hands over her ears.

Miss Crofutt stared at her, and therefore she threw Miss Crofutt's book into the fire. After
two days of unceasing debate, she called her parents, and with the
greatest agitation told them all.

It so happened, in this case, that events, to use a railroad phrase,
made connection.

No sooner had Miss Eunice told her story than the man came again.

"Well then what is the use of telling me to do things impossible?"

"I did not say impossible, Edith, did I?"

"No, but you say it is not in me to be gentle and all that, and I dare say it is not; but you
don't get much the better thought of, gentle as you are. Miss Schomberg. John and Fred don't
behave better to you than they do to me, so far as I see."

"Edith, dear, you set out wrong in your attempts to do right," said Emily, kindly. "It is not
in you; it is not in any one by nature to be always gentle and kind. With the second payment,
however, he obtained a promise from the "husband" that on the receipt of the money he would start
for California and importune him no more.

It is perhaps needless to state that the scoundrel never left, but soon after made further
demands, always holding over the victim threats of exposure in divorce
proceedings.

This system of extortion continued until as much as eight or nine
thousand dollars had been paid.

He was then impelled, in sheer self-defense, to consult a lawyer, when further extortion at once
ceased and determined. It subsequently transpired that the "lady" and her "husband" were two
of the most notorious panel thieves in the city.

The "anonymous letter" dodge is also sometimes successfully operated in levying black-mail. The conspirator
becomes acquainted with real or alleged facts, and dispatches an
artfully-worded communication for the purpose of frightening the intended
quarry.

Very frequently silence is obtained by the payment of a lump sum of money, especially where the victim
lacks backbone and decision of character.

Another form of black-mail is practiced by women who run fashionable assignation houses and bagnios
in this city.

Gentlemen well known in public life, fathers of families, and even clergymen, are occasionally
found in these gilded palaces of sin.

It is a simple matter for the madame of the house to inform "her friend" that Mr. This, or the
Reverend Mr. That, has been numbered among her recent visitors. The usual machinery is set in
motion forthwith-- threats of exposure and importunate demands for money. When the intended
victim refuses to be black-mailed, his family-- his daughter, perchance-- is notified of her father's
transgression and informed that the affair will be made public. Under such circumstances she is very
likely indeed to pay hush-money rather than have her family's honored name dragged through the
dirt of public scandal.

It is not so long ago that a regular business of blackmail was conducted in connection with
the leading assignation houses. Ladies, as well as gentlemen, who visited them by appointment were
"shadowed" and "spotted"; sometimes followed home and their standing
and character in the community carefully determined, preparatory to
the application of the financial thumbscrews.

A noted black-mailer of this city at one time maintained his wife in a private house, conveniently
within call of a woman who kept a house of ill-fame.

The wife promptly responded to any summons from the madame, and when she subsequently made
the acquaintance of some wealthy visitor she would inform her husband of the gentleman's name
and position. If, as probable, he was a person of ostensible respectability and advanced in years,
with everything to lose by exposure, he "came down" promptly and liberally. On other occasions
this high-toned husband would procure, through the offices of a mutual
friend, an introduction for his wife to some prominent member of the
Stock Exchange.

The lady, who was a remarkably handsome, fascinating and wily woman, usually entangled the intended
victim in the snare. Then the Husband appeared on the scene, boiling with indignation and "breathing
threatenings and slaughter" until money was paid. The gentleman so entrapped might afterwards
complain to his friend who introduced him to the siren, but he would never dream of associating
him in the "crooked" transaction.

We are not alarmists by any means, but simply relate facts as they
have come within our personal knowledge.

The weakness of human nature, combined with the play of the passions, especially the passion
of love, renders the existence of the black-mailer possible and often profitable. In a city
like ours, where such freedom is accorded to young wives and demoiselles, it is not surprising
that machinations against their virtue and their honor are planned
and executed.

The picture has still another side. What does the reader think, for example, of a mother who has
three daughters,-- bright, beautiful little girls, with long braided
hair hanging down their shapely backs, large, lustrous, melting eyes;
childish, innocent-looking lambs, aged respectively thirteen, fifteen
and seventeen,-- and sends them on the street in the afternoons, exquisitely
and temptingly dressed, in order to capture susceptible elderly gentlemen?
Yet these bewitching little girls have been often seen in the neighborhood
of Madison Square, on Broadway, Fifth Avenue, and even down on Wall
street.
The directions Fred gave her were far from clear; and after the paper was all cut and was to
be pasted together, sorrowful to say, it would not do at all. Fred, in spite of his late apology
was very angry, and seizing the scissors said he should know better another time than to ask
Miss Schomberg to do what she did not understand. "You have wasted my paper, too," said the
boy, "and my time in waiting for what I could better have done myself."

Emilie was very sorry, and she said so; but a balloon could not exactly be made out of her
sorrow, and nothing short of a balloon would pacify Fred, that was plain. "Must it be ready
for to-morrow?" she asked.

"Yes, it must," he said. Three other boys were going to send up balloons. It was the Queen's
coronation day, and he had promised to take a fourth balloon to the party; and the rehearsal
of all this stirred up Fred's ire afresh, and he looked any thing but kind at Miss Schomberg. Meanwhile
the couple had been admitted to the parlor. Miss Eunice's father stationed the officer at one
door, while he, with a pistol, stood at the other. Then Miss Eunice went into the apartment.
She was wasted, weak, and nervous.

The two villains got up as she came in, and bowed. She began to tremble as usual, and laid hold
upon the mantelpiece. "How much do you want?" she gasped.

The man gave the woman a push with his forefinger. She stepped forward quickly with her crest
up. Her eyes turned, and she fixed a vixenish look upon Miss Eunice. She suddenly shot her
hand out from beneath her shawl and extended it at full length. Across it lay Miss Eunice's glove,
very much soiled.

"Was that thing ever yours?" demanded the woman, shrilly.

"Y-yes," said Miss Eunice, faintly.

The woman seemed (if the apt word is to be excused) staggered. She withdrew her hand, and looked
the glove over. The man shook his head, and began to laugh behind
his hat.

"And did you ever give it to him?" pursued the woman, pointing over
her shoulder with her thumb.

Miss
Eunice nodded.

"Of your own free will?"

After a moment of silence she ejaculated, in a whisper, "Yes."

"Now wait," said the man, coming to the front; "'nough has been said
by you."

He then addressed himself to Miss Eunice with the remains of his
laugh still illuminating his face.

"This is my wife's sister, and she's one of the jealous kind. I love my wife" (here he became
grave), "and I never showed her any kind of slight that I know of. I've always been fair to her,
and she's always been fair to me. Plain sailin'so far; I never kep'anything from her-- but this."
He reached out and took the glove from the woman, and spread it out
upon his own palm, as Miss Eunice had seen him do once before. He
looked at it thoughtfully. "I wouldn't tell her about this; no, never.
She was never very particular to ask me; that's where her trust in
me came in. She knowed I was above doing anything out of the way-- that
is-- I mean--" He stammered and blushed, and then rushed on volubly.
"But her sister here thought I paid too much attention to it; she
thought I looked at it too much, and kep'it secret. So she nagged
and nagged, and kept the pitch boilin'until I had to let it out:
I told'em" (Miss Eunice shivered). "'No,'says she, my wife's sister,'that
won't do, Gorman. That's chaff, and I'm too old a bird.'Ther'fore I fetched
her straight to you, so she could put the question direct."

He
stopped a moment as if in doubt how to go on. Miss Eunice began to
open her eyes, and she released the mantel. The man resumed with something
like impressiveness: "When you last held that," said he, slowly,
balancing the glove in his hand, "I was a wicked man with bad intentions
through and through. She grew quite hot, as she had to ask
first for a spoon, then for a saucepan, then for the flour and water; at last she modestly
turned round and said, "Cook, I really do not quite know how to make a little paste. I am ashamed
to say it, but I have lived so long in lodgings that I see nothing of what is done in the kitchen.
Will you tell or show me? I am very ignorant."

Her kind civil tone quite changed cook's, and she said, "Oh, Miss, I'll make it, only you see,
you shouldn't have said I didn't know how." Emilie explained, and the cook was pacified, and
gave Miss Schomberg a good deal of gratuitous information during the process. How she did not
like her place, and should not stay, and how she disliked her mistress, and plenty more--to
which Emilie listened politely, but did not make much reply. She plainly perceived that cook
wanted a very forbearing mistress, but she could not exactly tell her so. In the matter of meals,
since the rations one feels Hedonistic ideals have so soundly been shaken That even the swankiest
Duke might say, "Thankee!"

For Hodge's red hanky of bread and cold bacon; But if in the sequel all chances are equal You'll
have to see me quell a volume of curses When our "jobs" they allot,
and I still have to swot, If I like it or not, writing topical verses.*****
A HARDY ANNUAL.

The butler, John Binns, who is an old and faithful retainer to this
household, is now suffering from his annual cough.

It is a terrific cough, capable of disputing supremacy with all other
coughs of which the world has heard.

The special points about this cough are (1) its loudness; (2) its combination
of the noises made by all other coughs; (3) its depth; (4) its shriek
of despair as it trembles and reverberates through the house; (5)
its capacity to repel and annihilate sympathy.

It is true that I have interviewed Binns with regard to his cough-- it is an annual interview and
is expected of me. I have urged him as he values our friendship not to neglect his cough, and
he has assured me in return that the doctor has prepared for him a
draught which possesses the supreme quality of being absolutely unable
to effect the purpose for which it was devised.

"I shall drink'is stuff," says Binns, "but I'aven't any'opes of its doing me any good. It doesn't
seem to get me be'ind the eough. If once I could really get be'ind it I should soon finish it.
But yon can't expect to do anything with a cough unless you're be'ind it." "Have you tried chloraline?"
I venture to suggest, mentioning not by that name, but by another,
a much-advertised specific.

"I've
been living on chloraline-- that is when I wasn't taking camphor lozenges. But my symptoms are too
strong for that kind o'stuff. Besides, I find that it's no use to fill yerself up with remedies,
because they only weigh down the cough unnaturally, and then when
it does bust out it's fit to tear yer throat in pieces.

But none of them get be'ind it-- no, not once." It will be observed that Binns has almost a superstition
in regard to "getting be'ind."

If he got rid of his cough with everything still in front, he would take no satisfaction whatever
in his malady; but as it is he feels a legitimate pride in it. He has been a member of this household
for forty years, and punctually on the Kalends of March in every year his cough turns up. It never
reduces his efficiency, but, while it alienates affection, it makes
him more valuable to himself as being one who has symptoms capable
of being related at full length to Mrs. Hankinson, the cook, or to
any of the maids who have not yet experienced it and must be made
aware that they belong to an establishment which has the high merit
of accommodating John Binns's annual cough.

It is something to have a butler who has coughed his irresistible way through two-and-a-half
generations. It is a perfectly harmless affliction, but it gets on nerves in the same way as it
did when first it huicked and honked and strangled and choked in the seventies of last century. I can
see no decrease in its vigour or its variety. It deserves the chance of immortality that I hereby
offer it, thus giving it a place beside the cough that Johnson coughed at Dr. Blimber's famous establishment.
He struggled gallantly, but had in the end to give way to an overwhelming
paroxysm of coughing. It was a good cough, but an isolated one, and
was perhaps, after all, not equal to Binns's.***** THE GOOD OLD TIMES. Captain
Reginald Jones and Captain James Smith, demobilised, meet accidentally
in the waiting-room of a Government office.

Their acquaintanceship had originated in a shell-hole near Plum-Tree Farm in 1916. Reggie. Cheerio, old egg.
Jimmy. Same to you. Doing anything? Reggie. Lord, yes! I've been pushed on to the directorate
of the pater's firm. Jimmy. Congrats! Reggie. Stow it, old man; I'm simply worried to death.
The whole cabush is on strike. Jimmy.

The blighters! What bunch are they? Reggie. Stone-breakers. Jimmy. Not the stone-breakers,
surely? Reggie. Yes, the stone-breakers, perish them! Jimmy. And are you here about it? Reggie.
Sure. The junior director gets all the dirty work to do. Jimmy. What a coincidence! I'm on the same
stunt, old thing. Reggie. Board of Trade? Jimmy. Rats!

Organising
secretary of the Stone-breakers'Union.

Reggie (after, gasp of surprise).

Lucky devil. Jimmy. Rot! I'd chuck it if I could afford to. Don't you wish sometimes you were back
at Plum-Tree Farm? Reggie. Crumbs, Jimmy; but weren't those the glorious days?***** "EX-CROWN
PRINCE'S HORSE TO RUN."-- Heading in "The Times."

Like master like horse.********** OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.) I SHALL begin by saying
straight out that Miss CICELY HAMILTON'S new book, William-- an Englishman
(SKEFFINGTON), is one of the finest war-stories that anyone has yet
given us.

You know already what qualities the author brings to her writing;
you may believe me that she has done nothing more real, more nobly
conceived, and by consequence more moving than this short tale.

It opens, in a style of half-humorous irony, with an account of the
youth, early life and courtship of William, who, with the girl whom
he married, belonged to the vehement circles of the Labour-Suffragist
group, spending a cheerfully ignorant life in a round of meetings,
in hunger-striking and whole-hearted support of the pacifism that
"seeks peace and ensues it by insisting firmly, and even to blood,
that it is the other side's duty to give way."

One small concession you must make to Miss HAMILTON'S plot.

It is improbable that, when such a couple as William and Griselda
left England in July 1914 to take their honeymoon in a remote valley
of the Belgian Ardennes, their friends, knowing them to be without
news and ignorant of all speech save English, should have made no
effort to warn them.

But, this granted, the tragedy that follows becomes inevitable.

It is so finely told and so horrible (the more so for the deliberate
restraint of the telling) that I will say nothing to weaken its effect.

From one scene, however, I cannot withhold my tribute of admiration--
that in which William, alone, brokenhearted, and almost crazed with
the ruin of everything that made up his life, creeps home to find
his old associates still glibly echoing the platitudes in which he
once believed.

A hint here of insincerity or conscious arrangement would have ruined
all; as it is, the scene holds and haunts one with an impression of
absolute truth, For the end, marked like all by an almost grim avoidance
of sentimentality, I shall only refer you to the book itself.

After reading it you will, I hope, not think me guilty of exaggeration
when I call it, slight though it is, one for which its author has
deserved well of the State.***** The dominant impression left upon
me by Miss MERIEL BUCHANAN'S Petrograd the City of Trouble (COLLINS)
is that its author is a sportswoman of the first order.

You see her pressing to the windows to observe the shooting in the
streets, going out to shop, to dine, to dance, during the stormy months
of the various phases of the various Russian Revolutions.

And I hasten to add, for fear of misunderstanding, that there is
no suggestion of pose as the heroic Englishwoman.

It was not till the end of 1918 that Sir GEORGE BUCHANAN withdrew
from a country in which ambassadorial functions had obviously no reasonable
scope.

But he and his family, including our chronicler, his spirited daughter,
remained long after there was any plausible reason to hope for the
restoration of order and very long after considerations of personal
safety might well have dictated and justified retreat.

Mr. HUGH WALPOLE in his preface points out that Miss BUCHANAN is
the first English writer to give a sense of the atmosphere of Russia
during the New Terror.

It is curious, but the impression she conveys is of something far
less formidable than we have imagined.

That may well be due to her high courage which minimised the ever-present dangers. Another odd impression
is that her accounts of current events, e. g. of the death of RASPUTIN,
seem to be as unplausible as those which have been patched from various
reports and guesses by writers far from the actual scene.

It is perhaps the very nearness of the author to the source of the
host of wild rumours and speculations concerning this strange tragedy
that conveys this sense of the impossible.

Have I thereby suggested that the book lacks interest?

On the contrary, it hasn't a dull or insincere page.***** Little
Houses (METHUEN) is not, as you might excusably suppose, a treatise
upon the problem of the hour, but a novel.

I confess that, when I read in the puff preliminary that it was "minutely
observed" and "drab" in setting, my heart sank.

But Mr. WODEN'S book is not made after that sufficiently-exploited
fashion.

He has a definite scheme, and (but for the fault of creating more
characters than he can conveniently manage) tells his simple tale
with a mature ease remarkable in a first novel.

The plan of it is the life-story of a group of persons in a provincial
factory town in those Victorian days when trade-unions were first
starting, when the caricaturists lived upon Mr. GLADSTONE'S collars
and the Irish Question was very much in the same state as it is to-day.

We watch the hero, John Allday, developing from a Sunday-school urchin
to flourishing owner of his own business and prospective alderman.

Of course I admit that this synopsis does not sound peculiarly thrilling; also that as a tale it
is by now considerably more than twice told. But I can only repeat that, for those with a taste
for such stories, here is one excellent of its kind. Whether Mr. WODEN has been drawing upon personal
memories for it, writing in fact that one novel of which every man is said to be capable,
time and the publishing lists will show. I shall certainly be interested to see. Meanwhile the fact that
despite his name GEORGE-- always an object of the gravest suspicion--
I accept his masculinity without question is my tribute both to the
balance of his style and to the admirable drawing of his hero.*****
That gallant and heroic gentleman, the late Mr. CECIL CHESTERTON, proved
his quality by his service and death in the ranks of our army.

In such scanty leisure as he could command be wrote, quite casually as it were, A History of the United
Slates (CHATTO AND WINDUS). He seemed to say as Wemmick might have said, "Hullo! Here's a nation!
Let's write its history," which he at once proceeded to do with immense gusto and considerable
accuracy. Americans will not universally agree with all the views he puts forward. I myself am of
opinion (probably quite wrongly) that I could make a better argumentative case for the North in
the Civil War on the question of slavery. And in his account of the War of 1812-1814 Mr. CHESTERTON
spends a great deal of indignation over the burning by the British of some public buildings
in Washington, omitting to mention that this was done in reprisal for the burning by the Americans
in the previous year of the public buildings of Toronto. But in the main this history brilliantly justifies
Mr. CHESTERTON'S courage in undertaking it, and it is written in a style that carries the reader with it from
first to last. The book is introduced by a moving tribute from Mr.
G. K. CHESTERTON to his dead brother.***** We doubt whether Mr. BOOTH
TARKINGTON'S many admirers on this side of the Atlantic will read
The Magnificent Ambersons (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) with any great sense
of satisfaction.

George Minafer is a spoilt and egotistical cad, and as we pursue his unpleasant personality from infancy
onward our impatience with the adoring relatives who allow the impossible
little bounder to turn their lives to tragedy becomes more and more
pronounced.

In England his "come uppance" would have commenced at an early age
and in the time-honoured place thereunto provided.

But in the case of young American nabobs these corrective agencies are too
often wanting, and though it is hard to believe that a sophisticated
uncle, a soldier grandfather and various other relatives would have
allowed a conceited and overbearing young boor to wreck his mother's
life by separating her from a former sweetheart, it cannot be said
that such cases have not existed or that the picture is altogether
overdrawn.

But we do not like George Minafer, and his final reconciliation with
his own sweetheart and her father-- the man whom ho has prevented his mother
from marrying-- leaves us cold.

But if the characters are unpleasing the craftsmanship of The Magnificent
Ambersons is of Mr. BOOTH TARKINGTON'S best, and his description
"of the decline and fall of a locally supreme dynasty of plutocrats
before the hosts of the Goths and Huns of spawning industrialism is
almost a contribution to American social history.********** Of the
two tales in Wild Youth and Another (HUTCHINSON) I prefer the other.

In" Wild Youth "Sir GILBERT PARKER gives us the unedifying picture of a horrible old man
married to a young and pretty girl. Jealous, tyrannical and vicious, this creature-- referred to
as a behemoth-- is in all conscience unsavoury enough; but no one can read his story without
feeling that he never had a dog's chance; and although the tale is in many respects well-told,
I feel that it would have been vastly improved if some redeeming qualities had been vouchsafed
to the villain of the piece." Jordan is a Hard Road "is a more engaging piece of work. Here
we have a man who has walked through most of the commandments-- with especial attention to the
eighth-- trying to mend his ways. And he makes rather a sound job of it until something quite unforeseen
happens; and then the old Adam (if this is quite fair to Adam) asserts himself. From a publisher's"
literary note "enclosed in this book you will learn that Sir GILBERT'S
imagination is" as boundless as the tracts of the Prairie which he
loves and knows how to make his readers love.

"This is perhaps rather a large order, but I will content myself by saying that for the scenes
of these stories Sir GILBERT has chosen ground that is familiar to him, and that knowledge is
sometimes even more useful than imagination.*****"

HAMLET "AND THE FLU (an appeal to the Government):" Angels and Ministers
of Health defend us!

"END.

 She soon put
mutters into a better train, both in kitchen and parlour, so that the pacified lodgers consented
to remain. And though neither Lucy nor Betsey altogether liked aunt Agnes, they found her quite
an improvement on Miss Webster.

It is not our object to follow Miss Webster through her domestic troubles nor through the tedious
process of the convalescence of a scalt foot. We will rather follow Edith into her chamber,
and see how she is trying to learn the arts of the Peacemaker there.

Edith's head is bent over a book, a torn book, and her countenance is flushed and heated. She
is out of breath, too, and her hair is hanging disordered about her pretty face; not pretty
now, however; it is an angry face--and an angry face is never pretty.

Has she been quarrelling with Fred again? yes, even so. Fred would not give up Hans Andersen's
Tales, which Emilie had just given Edith, and which she was reading busily, when some one came
to see her about a new bonnet, so she left the book on the table, and in the mean time Fred
came in, snatched it up, and was soon deep in the feats of the "Flying Trunk." Then came the
little lady back and demanded the book, not very pleasantly, if the truth must be told. Fred
meant to give it up, but he meant to tease his sister first, and Edith, who had no patience
to wait, snatched at the book. Fred of course resisted, and it was not until the book had been
nearly parted from its cover, and some damage had ensued to the dress and hair of both parties
that Edith regained possession; not peaceable possession, however, for both of the children's
spirits were ruffled.

Edith flew to her room almost as fast as if she had been on the "Flying Trunk," in the Fairy
Tale. When there, she could not read, and in displeasure with herself and with every one, dashed
the little volume away and cried long and bitterly. Edith had not been an insensible spectator
of the constantly and self-denying gentle conduct of Emilie. Her example, far more than her
precepts, had affected her powerfully, but she had much to contend with, and it seemed to her
as if at the very times she meant to be kind and gentle something occurred to put her out.
"I will try, oh, I will try," said Edith again and again, "but it is such hard work."--Yes,
Edith, hard enough, and work which even Emilie can scarcely help you in. You wrestle against
a powerful and a cruel enemy, and you need great and powerful aid; but you have read your Bible
Edith, and again and again has Emilie said to you, "of yourself you can do nothing."

Edith had had a long conversation on this very subject only that morning with her friend, as
they were walking on the sea shore, and under the influence of the calm lovely summer's sky,
and within the sound of Emilie's clear persuasive voice, it did not seem a hard matter to Edith
to love and to be loving. She could love Fred, she could even bear a rough pull of the hair
from him, she could stand a little teasing from John, who found fault with a new muslin frock
she wore at dinner, and we all know it is not pleasant to have our dress found fault with;
but this attack of Fred's about the book, was not to be borne, not by Edith, at least, and
thus she sobbed and cried in her own room, thinking herself the most miserable of creatures,
and very indignant that Emilie did not come to comfort her; "but she is gone out after that
tiresome old woman, with her scalt foot, I dare say," said Edith, "and she would only tell
me I was wrong if she were here--oh dear! oh dear me!" and here she sobbed again.

Solitude is a wonderfully calming, composing thing; Emilie knew that, and she did quite right
to leave Edith alone. It was time she should listen seriously to a voice which seldom made
itself heard, but conscience was resolute to-day, and did not spare Edith. One cannot take a
step without an escort; a detachment of five or six men is often sent to carry a letter from one
post-office to another.

"Interpret this general statement by the thousands of facts of which it is the summary; imagine
these little daily occurrences narrated with all their material accompaniments, and with sympathetic
or angry comments by interested neighbors, and we have the moral lessons taught to young Bonaparte. [1230]
At table, the child has listened to the conversation of his elders, and at a word uttered, for
instance, by his uncle, or at a physiognomic expression, a sign of approbation, a shrug of the
shoulders, he has divined that the ordinary march of society is not that of peace but of war;
he sees by what ruses one maintains one's-self, by what acts of violence one makes ones way,
by what sort of help one mounts upward. Left to himself the rest of the day, to the nurse Ilaria,
or to Saveria the housekeeper, or to the common people amongst whom he strays at will, he
listens to the conversation of sailors or of shepherds assembled on the public square, and their
simple exclamations, their frank admiration of well-planned ambuscades and lucky surprises, impress
more profoundly on him, often repeated with so much energy, the lessons
which he has already learned at home.

These are the lessons taught by things. At this tender age they sink deep, especially when the
disposition is favorable, and in this case the heart sanctions them beforehand, because education
finds its confederate in instinct. Accordingly, at the outbreak of the Revolution, on revisiting
Corsica, he takes life at once as he finds it there, a combat with any sort of weapon, and,
on this small arena, he acts unscrupulously, going farther than anybody. [1231] If he respects
justice and law, it is only in words, and even here ironically; in his eyes, law is a term
of the code, justice a book term, while might makes right.

A second blow of the coining-press gives another impression of the
same stamp on this character already so decided, while French anarchy
forces maxims into the mind of the young man, already traced in the
child's mind by Corsican anarchy; the lessons of things provided by
a society going to pieces are the same as those of a society which
is not yet formed.-- His sharp eyes, at a very early period, see through
the flourish of theory and the parade of phrases; they detect the
real foundation of the Revolution, namely, the sovereignty of unbridled
passions and the conquest of the majority by the minority; conquering
or conquered, a choice must be made between these two extreme conditions;
there is no middle course.

After the 9th of Thermidor, the last veils are torn away, and the instincts of license and domination,
the ambitions of individuals, fully display themselves. There is no concern for public interests
or for the rights of the people; it is clear that the rulers form a band, that France is their
prey, and that they intend to hold on to it for and against everybody, by every possible means,
including bayonets. Under this civil régime, a clean sweep of the broom at the center makes it
necessary to be on the side of numbers.-- In the armies, especially in the army of Italy, republican
faith and patriotic abnegation, since the territory became free, have given way to natural appetites
and military passions. [1232] Barefoot, in rags, with four ounces of bread a day, paid in assignats
which are not accepted in the markets, both officers and men desire above all things to be relieved
of their misery;" the poor fellows, after three years of longing on the summits of the Alps,
reach the promised land, and want to enjoy it. "[1233] Another spur
consists in the pride which is stimulated by the imagination and by
success; add to this the necessity for finding an outlet for their
energy, the steam and high pressure of youth; nearly all are very
young men, who regard life, in Gallic or French fashion, as a party
of pleasure and as a duel.

But to feel brave and to prove that one is so, to face bullets for amusement and defiantly,
to abandon a successful adventure for a battle and a battle for a ball, to enjoy ones-self
and take risks to excess, without dissimulating, and with no other
object than the sensation of the moment, [1234] to revel in excitement
through emulation and danger, is no longer self-devotion, but giving
one's-self up to one's fancies; and, for all who are not harebrained,
to give one's-self up to one's fancies means to make one's way, obtain
promotion, pillage so as to become rich, like Massena, and conquer
so as to become powerful, like Bonaparte.-- All this is understood
between the general and his army from the very first, [1235] and, after
one year's experience, the understanding is perfect.

One moral is derived from their common acts, vague in the army, precise in the general; what the
army only half sees, he sees clearly; if he urges his comrades on, it is because they follow their
own inclination. He simply has a start on them, and is quicker to make up his mind that the
world is a grand banquet, free to the first-comer, but at which, to be well served, one must have
long arms, be the first to get helped, and let the rest take what
is left.

So natural does this seem to him, he says so openly and to men who are not his intimates; to Miot,
a diplomat, and to Melzi a foreigner:" Do you suppose, says he to
them, [1236] after the preliminaries of Leoben, "that to make great
men out of Directory lawyers, the Carnots'and the Barras, I triumph
in Italy?

Do you suppose also that it is for the establishment of a republic? What an idea! A republic of
thirty million men! With our customs, our vices, how is that possible? It is a delusion which
the French are infatuated with and which will vanish along with so many others. What they want
is glory, the gratification of vanity-- they know nothing about liberty. Look at the army! Our successes
just obtained, our triumphs have already brought out the true character of the French soldier. I
am all for him. Let the Directory deprive me of the command and it
will see if it is master.

The nation needs a chief, one who is famous though his exploits, and not theories of government,
phrases and speeches by ideologists, which Frenchmen do not comprehend.... As to your country,
Monsieur de Melzi, it has still fewer elements of republicanism than France, and much less ceremony
is essential with it than with any other... In other respects, I have
no idea of coming to terms so promptly with Austria. It is not for
my interest to make peace. You see what I am, what I can do in Italy. If
peace is brought about, if I am no longer at the head of this army which
has become attached to me, I must give up this power, this high position
I have reached, and go and pay court to lawyers in the Luxembourg.

I should not like to quit Italy for France except to play a part there similar to that which I play here,
and the time for that has not yet come-- the pear is not ripe." To wait until the pear is ripe,
but not to allow anybody else to gather it, is the true motive of his political fealty and of his Jacobin
proclamations: "A party in favor of the Bourbons is raising its head; I have no desire to help
it along.

One of these days I shall weaken the republican party, but I shall do it for my own advantage
and not for that of the old dynasty. Meanwhile, it is necessary to march with the Republicans,"
along with the worst, and'the scoundrels about to purge the Five Hundred, the Ancients, and the Directory
itself, and then re-establish in France the Reign of Terror.-- In effect, he contributes to the
18th of Fructidor, and, the blow struck, he explains very clearly why
he took part in it: "Do not believe [1237] I did it in conformity
with the ideas entertained by those with whom I acted. I did-- not
want a return of the Bourbons, and especially if brought back by Moreau's
army and by Pichegru... Finally, I will not take the part of Monk,
I will not play it, and I will not have others play it.... As for
myself, my dear Miot, I declare to you that I can no longer obey;
I have tasted command and I cannot give it up.

My
mind is made up. If I cannot be master I will leave France." There
is no middle course for him between the two alter natives.

On returning to Paris he thinks of "overthrowing the Directory, [1238]
dissolving the councils and of making himself dictator"; but, having
satisfied himself that there was but little chance of succeeding, "he
postpones his design" and falls back on the second course. "This is
the only motive of his expedition into Egypt."

[1239]-- That, in the actual condition of France and of Europe, the
expedition is opposed to public interests, that France deprives itself
of its best army and offers its best fleet to almost certain destruction,
is of little consequence provided, in this vast and gratuitous adventure,
Bonaparte finds the employment he wants, a large field of action and
famous victories which, like the blasts of a trumpet, will swell beyond
the seas and renew his prestige: in his eyes, the fleet, the army,
France, and humanity exist only for him and are created only for his
service.-- If, in confirmation of this persuasion, another lesson
in things is still necessary, it will be furnished by Egypt.

Here, absolute sovereign, free of any restraint, contending with an inferior order of humanity,
he acts the sultan and accustoms himself to playing the part. [1240] His last scruples towards
the human species disappear; "I became disgusted with Rousseau"; he is to say, later on, "After
seeing the Orient: the savage man is a dog," [1241] and, in the civilized man, the savage is
just beneath the skin; if the intellect has become somewhat polished, there is no change in his instincts.
A master is as necessary to one as to the other-- a magician who
subjugates his imagination, disciplines him, keeps him from biting without
occasion, ties him up, cares for him, and takes him out hunting. He is
born to obey, does not deserve any better lot, and has no other right.
Become consul and afterward emperor, he applies the theory on a grand
scale, and, in his hands, experience daily furnishes fresh verifications
of the theory. At his first nod the French prostrate themselves obediently,
and there remain, as in a natural position; the lower class, the peasants
and the soldiers, with animal fidelity, and the upper class, the
dignitaries and the functionaries, with Byzantine servility.-- The
republicans, on their side, make no resistance; on the contrary, among
these he has found his best governing instruments-- senators, deputies,
state councilors, judges, and administrators of every grade.

[1242] He has at once detected behind their sermonizing on liberty and equality, their despotic
instincts, their craving for command, for leadership, even as subordinates;
and, in addition to this, with most of them, the appetite for money or for
sensual pleasures. If a rude, poor puritan, like Cambon or Baudot,
refuses to don the official uniform, if two or three Jacobin generals,
like Lecourbe and Delmas, grumble at the coronation parade, Napoleon, who
knows their mental grasp, regards them as ignoramuses, limited to
and rigid inside a fixed idea.-- As to the cultivated and intelligent
liberals of 1789, he consigns them with a word to the place where
they belong; they are "ideologists"; in other words, their pretended
knowledge is mere drawing-room prejudice and the imagination of the
study.

"Lafayette is a political ninny," the eternal "dupe of men and of things." [1243] With Lafayette
and some others, one embarrassing detail remains namely:* impartiality and generosity,* constant
care for the common good,* respect for others,* the authority of
conscience,* loyalty,* and good faith.

In short,
noble and pure motives. Napoleon does not accept the denial thus given
to his theory; when he talks with people, he questions their moral
nobleness.

"General Dumas," [1244] said he, abruptly, to Mathieu Dumas, "you were one of the imbeciles who
believed in liberty?" "Yes, sire, and I was and am still one of that class." "And you, like the
rest, took part in the Revolution through ambition?" "No, sire, I should have
calculated badly, for I am now precisely where I stood in 1790." "You
were not sufficiently aware of the motives which prompted you; you cannot
be different from other people; it is all personal interest. Now,
take Massena. He has glory and honors enough; but he is not content. He wants
to be a prince, like Murat and like Bernadotte. He would risk being
shot to-morrow to be a prince. That is the incentive of Frenchmen."--
His system is based on this.

The most competent witnesses, and those who were most familiar with him certify to his fixed idea
on this point. "His opinions on men," writes M. de Metternich, [1245] "centered on one idea,
which, unfortunately for him, had acquired in his mind the force of
an axiom; he was persuaded that no man who was induced to appear on the
public stage, or who was merely engaged in the active pursuits of
life, governed himself, or was governed, otherwise than by his interest."
According to him, Man is held through his egoistic passions, fear,
cupidity, sensuality, self-esteem, and emulation; these are the mainsprings
when he is not under excitement, when he reasons.

Moreover, it is not difficult to turn the brain of man; for he is imaginative, credulous, and subject
to being carried away; stimulate his pride or vanity, provide him
with an extreme and false opinion of himself and of his fellow-men,
and you can start him off head downward wherever you please.

[1246]-- None of these motives is entitled to much respect, and beings
thus fashioned form the natural material for an absolute government,
the mass of clay awaiting the potter's hand to shape it.

If parts of this mass are obdurate, the potter has only to crush
and pound them and mix them thoroughly.

Such is the final conception on which Napoleon has anchored himself,
and into which he sinks deeper and deeper, no matter how directly
and violently he may be contradicted by palpable facts.

Nothing will dislodge him; neither the stubborn energy of the English,
nor the inflexible gentleness of the Pope, nor the declared insurrection
of the Spaniards, nor the mute insurrection of the Germans, nor the
resistance of Catholic consciences, nor the gradual disaffection of
the French; the reason is, that his conception is imposed on him by
his character; [1247] he sees man as he needs to see him.

III.

Napoleon's Dominant Passion: Power.

His mastery of the will of others.-- Degree of submission required
by him.-- His mode of appreciating others and of profiting by them.--
Tone of command and of conversation.

We at last confront his dominant passion, the inward abyss into which instinct, education, reflection,
and theory have plunged him, and which is to engulf the proud edifice of his fortune-- I mean,
his ambition. It is the prime motor of his soul and the permanent substance of his will, so profound
that he no longer distinguishes between it and himself, and of which he is sometimes unconscious.
"I," said he to Roederer, [1248] "I have no ambition," and then,
recollecting himself, he adds, with his ordinary lucidity, "or, if
I have any, it is so natural to me, so innate, so intimately associated
with my existence, that it is like the blood which flows in my veins
and the atmosphere I breathe."-- Still more profoundly, he likens
it to that unconscious, savage, and irresistible emotion which vibrates
the soul from one end to the other, to this universal thrill moving
all living beings, animal or moral, to those keen and terrible tremors
which we call the passion of love.

"I have but one passion, [1249] one mistress, and that is France. I
sleep with her. She has never been false to me. She lavishes her
blood and treasures on me.

If I need 500,000 men, she gives them to me." Let no one come between him and her. Let Joseph, in
relation to the coronation, abstain from claiming his place, even secondary and prospective, in
the new empire; let him not put forth his fraternal rights.

[1250] "It is to wound me in the most tender spot." This he does, and, "Nothing can efface that
from my souvenirs.

It is as if he had told an impassioned lover that he had slept with his mistress, or merely that
he hoped to succeed with her. My mistress is power. I have worked too hard to obtain her,
to let her be ravished from me, or even suffer anybody to covet her." This ambition, as avid as it is
jealous, which becomes exasperated at the very idea of a rival, feels
hampered by the mere idea of setting a limit to it; however vast the
acquired power, he would like to have it still more vast; on quitting
the most copious banquet, he still remains insatiate.

On the day after the coronation he said to Decrés: [1251] "I come too late, there is no longer anything
great to accomplish. I admit that my career is brilliant and that I have
made my way successfully.

But what a difference alongside of antiquity! Take Alexander! After having conquered Asia, and
proclaimed himself to the people as the son of Jupiter, with the exception of Olympias, who
knew what all this meant, and Aristotle, and a few Athenian pedants, the entire Orient believed
him. Very well, should I now declare that I was the son of God Almighty, and proclaim that I am
going to worship him under this title, every market woman would hoot at me as I walked along
the streets. People nowadays know too much. Nothing is left to do." And yet, even on this secluded,
elevated domain, and which twenty centuries of civilization keeps
inaccessible, he still encroaches, and to the utmost, in a roundabout
way, by laying his hand on the Church, and next on the Pope; here,
as elsewhere, he takes all he can get.

Nothing in his eyes, is more natural; he has a right to it, because he is the only capable one.
"My Italian people [1252] must know me well enough not to forget that there is more in my
little finger than in all their brains put together." Alongside of him, they are children, "minors,"
the French also, and likewise the rest of mankind. A diplomat, who often saw him and studied him
under all as aspects, sums up his character in one conclusive phrase: "He considered himself an
isolated being in this world, made to govern and direct all minds as he pleased." [1253] Hence,
whoever has anything to do with him, must abandon his independence
and become his tool of government.

"That terrible man," often exclaimed Decrés [1254] "has subjugated
us all!

He holds all our imaginations in his hands, now of steel and now of velvet, but whether one or the
other during the day nobody knows, and there is no way to escape
from them whatever they seize on they never let go!"

Independence of any kind, even eventual and merely possible, puts him in a bad mood; intellectual or moral
superiority is of this order, and he gradually gets rid of it; [1255] toward the end he no longer
tolerates alongside of him any but subject or captive spirits. His principal servants are machines or
fanatics, a devout worshipper, like Maret, a gendarme, like Savary,
[1256] ready to do his bidding.

From
the outset, he has reduced his ministers to the condition of clerks; for he is administrator as
well as ruler, and in each department he watches details as closely as the entire mass. Accordingly, he
requires simply for head of departments active pen pushers, mute
executors, docile and special hands, no need for honest and independent
advisers.

"I should
not know what to do with them," he said, "if they were not to a certain extent mediocre in mind and
character." As to his generals, he admits himself that "he likes to award fame only to those
who cannot stand it." In any event, "he must be sole master in making
or unmaking reputations," according to his personal requirements.

Too brilliant a soldier would become too important; a subordinate
should never be tempted to be less submissive.

To this end he studies what he will omit in his bulletins, what alterations and what changes
shall be made in them.

"It is convenient to keep silent about certain victories, or to convert
the defeat of this or that marshal into a success.

Sometimes a general learns by a bulletin of an action that he was never in and of a speech
that he never made." If he complains, he is notified to keep still, or by way of recompense
he is allowed to pillage, levy contributions, and enrich himself. On becoming duke or hereditary prince,
with half a million or a million of revenue from his estate, he is not less held in subjection,
for the creator has taken precautions against his own creations.

"There are men," [1257] he said, "who I have made independent, but I know well where to find
them and keep them from being ungrateful." In effect, if he has endowed them magnificently it
is with domains assigned to them in conquered countries, which insures
their fortune being his fortune. Besides, in order that they may not enjoy
any pecuniary stability, he expressly encourages them and all his
grand dignitaries to make extravagant outlays; thus, through their
financial embarrassments be holds them in a leash.

"We have seen most of his marshals, constantly pressed by their creditors,
come to him for assistance, which he has given as he fancied, or as
he found it for his interest to attach some one to him."

[1258] Thus, beyond the universal ascendancy which his power and
genius have conferred on him, he craves a personal, supplementary,
and irresistible hold on everybody.

Consequently, [1259] "he carefully cultivates all the bad passions.... he is glad to find the bad side
in a man, so as to get him in his power"; the thirst for money in Savary, the Jacobin defects
of Fouché, the vanity and sensuality of Cambacérès, the careless cynicism and "the easy immorality"
of Talleyrand, the "dry bluntness" of Duroc, the courtier-like insipidity of Maret, "the silliness"
of Berthier; he brings this out, diverts himself with it, and profits by it. "Where he sees no
vice, he encourages weaknesses, and, in default of anything better, he provokes fear, so that
he may be ever and continually the strongest.... He dreads ties of
affection, and strives to alienate people from each other.... He sells
his favors only by arousing anxiety; he thinks that the best way to
attach individuals to him is to compromise them, and often, even,
to ruin them in public opinion."-- "If Caulaincourt is compromised,"
said he, after the murder of the Duc d'Enghien, "it is no great matter,
he will serve me all the better." The two
children, who had been commissioned to search for corallines, rushed up to Edith with a basket
full of a heterogeneous collection, and amongst a great deal of little value there were some
beautiful specimens of the very things Edith wanted. She thanked the little Murrays sincerely,
and then looked at Emilie. Should she pay them? the look asked. It was evident the children
had no idea of such a thing, and felt fully repaid by Edith's pleasure. Edith only wanted to
know if it would take from that pleasure to receive money. She had been learning of late to
study what people liked, and wished to do so now.

Emilie did not understand her look, and so Edith followed her own course. "Thank you, oh, thank
you," she said. "It was very kind of you to collect me so many, they please me very much. I
wish I knew of something that you would like as well as I like these, and if I can, I will
give it to you, or ask mamma to help me." The boy not being troubled with bashfulness, immediately
said, that of all things he should like a regular rigged boat, a ship, "a little-un" that would
swim. The girl put her finger in her mouth and said "she didn't know." "Are you going to have
a boat?" said every little voice, "oh, what fun we shall have." "Yes," said our peace-making
friend, Sarah. "You know that if Dick gets any thing it is the same as if you all did. He is
such a kind boy, Miss, he plays with the little ones, and gives up to them so nicely, you'd
be surprised."

"I am glad of that," said Emilie, "it will be such a pleasure to Miss Edith to give pleasure
to them all--but come, Jenny, you have not fixed yet what you will have." Jenny said she did
not want to be paid, but she had thought, perhaps Miss Parker might give them something, and
if Miss Parker did not think it too much, she should like a shilling better than any thing.

Every one looked inquiringly, except Sarah. Sarah was but the uneducated daughter of a poor
fisherman, but she studied human nature as it lay before her in the different characters of
her brothers and sisters, and she guessed the workings of Jenny's mind.

"What do you want a shilling for?" said the mother sharply, who had joined the group. "You
ought not to have asked for anything, what bad manners you have! The weeds cost you nothing,
and you ought to be much obliged to Miss Parker for accepting them."

"I wanted the shilling very much," persisted Jenny, as Edith pressed it into her hand, and
off she ran, as though to hide her treasure.

But Edith had caught sight of something, and forgot shilling and every thing else in that glimpse.
Her own dear old Muff sleeping on the hearth of the kitchen which she had not yet entered.
I shall not tell you all the endearments she used to puss, they would look ridiculous on paper;
they made even those who heard them smile, but she was so overjoyed that there was some excuse
for her. Mrs. Murray rather damped her joy at once by saying, "Oh, she's a sad thief, Miss.
She steals the fish terribly. I suppose you can't take her back, Miss?"

"Ah, Joe," said Edith sorrowfully, "you see, you had better have drowned her."

"So I think," said Mrs. Murray.

"No, no, no," cried Jane, coming forwards. "I have a shilling now, and Barker the carrier will
take her for that all the way to Southampton, where aunt Martha lives, and aunt Martha loves
cats, and will take care of Muff; she shan't be drowned, Miss," said Jenny, kindly.

The mother looked surprised, and they all admired Jenny's kind intentions. Emilie slipped another
shilling into her hand as they went away, and said "You will find a use for it." "Good night
Jenny, and thank you," said poor Edith, with a sigh, for she had already looked forward to
many joyful meetings with Muff--her newly-found treasure. But as old Joe, who followed them
down the cliff said, there was no end to the trouble Muff caused, what with stealing fish,
and upsettings and breakings; and she would be happier at aunt Martha's, where there was neither
fish nor child, and more room to walk about in than Muff enjoyed here.

"But how kind of Jenny," said Edith, "how thoughtful for Muff!"

"No, Miss, 't aint for Muff exactly," said Joe, "though she pitied you, as they all did, in
thinking of drowning the cat; but bless the dear children, they are all trying in their way,
I do believe; to please their mother, and to win her to be more happy and gentle like. You
see she has had a hard struggle with them, so many as there are, and so little to do with;
and that and bad health have soured her temper like; but she'll come to. Oh Miss Edith, take
my word for it, if ever you have to live where folks are cross and snappish, be you good-humoured.
A little of the leaven of sweetness and good temper lightens a whole lump of crossness and
bad humour. One bright Spirit in a family will keep the sun shining in one spot; it can't then
be all dark, you see, and if there's ever such a little spot of sunshine, there must be some
light in the house, which may spread before long, Miss."

"Goodnight, Joe," and "Good night, ladies," passed, and the friends were left alone--alone
upon the quiet beach. The sun had set, for it was late; the tide was ebbing, and now left the
girls a beautiful smooth path of sand for some little distance, on which the sound of their
light steps was scarcely heard, as they rapidly walked towards home.

"Who would think, Edith, that our six weeks' holiday would be at an end to-morrow?" said Emilie.

"I don't know, Emilie, I feel it much longer." 

The groans of the dying, the shrieks of the oppressed, tears of despair, surrounded my cradle from
my birth... I will blacken those who betrayed the common cause with
the brush of infamy.... vile, sordid souls corrupted by gain! "[1117]
A little later, his letter to Buttafuoco, deputy in the Constituent
Assembly and principal agent in the annexation to France, is one long
strain of renewed, concentrated hatred, which, after at first trying
to restrain it within the bounds of cold sarcasm, ends in boiling
over, like red-hot lava, in a torrent of scorching invective.-- From
the age of fifteen, at the Academy and afterwards in his regiment,
he finds refuge in imagination in the past of his island; [1118] he
recounts its history, his mind dwells upon it for many years, and
he dedicates his work to Paoli.

Unable to get it published, he abridges it, and dedicates the abridgment to Abbé Raynal, recapitulating
in a strained style, with warm, vibrating sympathy, the annals of his small community, its revolts
and deliverances, its heroic and sanguinary outbreaks, its public and domestic tragedies, ambuscades,
betrayals, revenges, loves, and murders,-- in short, a history similar to that of the Scottish
highlanders, while the style, still more than the sympathies, denotes
the foreigner.

Undoubtedly, in this work, as in other youthful writings, he follows as well as he can the authors
in vogue-- Rousseau, and especially Raynal; he gives a schoolboy imitation
of their tirades, their sentimental declamation, and their humanitarian
grandiloquence.

But these borrowed clothes, which incommode him, do not fit him; they are too tight, and the cloth
is too fine; they require too much circumspection in walking; he
does not know how to put them on, and they rip at every seam.

Not only has he never learned how to spell, but he does not know the true meaning, connections,
and relations of words, the propriety or impropriety of phrases,
the exact significance of imagery; [1119] he strides on impetuously
athwart a pell-mell of incongruities, incoherencies, Italianisms,
and barbarisms, undoubtedly stumbling along through awkwardness and
inexperience, but also through excess of ardor and of heat; [1120]
his jerking, eruptive thought, overcharged with passion, indicates
the depth and temperature of its source.

Already, at the Academy, the professor of belles-lettres [1121] notes down that" in the strange
and incorrect grandeur of his amplifications he seems to see granite fused in a volcano. "However
original in mind and in sensibility, ill-adapted as he is to the society around him, different
from his comrades, it is clear beforehand that the current ideas which take such hold on them
will obtain no hold on him.

Of the two dominant and opposite ideas which clash with each other, it might be supposed that he would
lean either to one or to the other, although accepting neither.-- Pensioner of the king, who supported
him at Brienne, and afterwards in the Military Academy; who also
supported his sister at Saint-Cyr; who, for twenty years, is the benefactor
of his family; to whom, at this very time, he addresses entreating
or grateful letters over his mother's signature-- he does not regard
him as his born general; it does not enter his mind to take sides
and draw his sword in his patron's behalf;'in vain is he a gentleman,
to whom, d'Hozier has certified; reared in a school of noble cadets,
he has no noble or monarchical traditions. [1122]-- Poor and tormented
by ambition, a reader of Rousseau, patronized by Raynal, and tacking
together sentences of philosophic fustian about equality, if he speaks
the jargon of the day, it is without any belief in it.

The phrases in vogue form a decent, academical drapery for his ideas, or serve him as a red
cap for the club; he is not bewildered by democratic illusions, and entertains no other feeling than
disgust for the revolution and the sovereignty of the populace.-- At
Paris, in April, 1792, when the struggle between the monarchists and
the revolutionaries is at its height, he tries to find" some successful
speculation, "[1123] and thinks he will hire and sublet houses at
a profit.

On the 20th of June he witnesses, only as a matter of curiosity,
the invasion of the Tuileries, and, on seeing the king at a window
place the red cap on his head, exclaims, so as to be heard," Che
Caglione!

"Immediately after this:" How could they let that rabble enter!

Mow down four or five hundred of them with cannons and the rest would run away. "On August 10,
when the tocsin sounds, he regards the people and the king with equal
contempt; he rushes to a friend's house on the Carrousel and there,
still as a looker-on, views at his ease all the occurrences of the
day. [1124] Finally, the chateau is forced and he strolls through the
Tuileries, looks in at the neighboring cafés, and that is all: he
is not disposed to take sides, he has no Jacobin or royalist inclination.

His features, even, are so calm" as to provoke many hostile and distrustful stares, as someone
who is unknown and suspicious. "-- Similarly, after the 31st of May
and the 2nd of June, his" Souper de Beaucaire "shows that if he condemns
the departmental insurrection it is mainly because he deems it futile:
on the side of the insurgents, a defeated army, no position tenable,
no cavalry, raw artillerymen, Marseilles reduced to its own troops,
full of hostile sans-culottes and so besieged, taken and pillaged.

Chances are against it:" Let the impoverished regions, the inhabitants
of Vivaris, of the Cevennes, of Corsica, fight to the last extremity,
but if you lose a battle and the fruit of a thousand years of fatigue,
hardship, economy, and happiness become the soldier's prey. "[1125]
Here was something with which the Girondists could be converted!-- None
of the political or social convictions which then exercised such control
over men's minds have any hold on him.

Before the 9th of Thermidor he seemed to be a" republican montagnard, "and we follow him for
months in Provence," the favorite and confidential adviser of young Robespierre, "" admirer
"of the elder Robespierre, [1126] intimate at Nice with Charlotte
Robespierre.

After the 9th of Thermidor has passed, he frees himself with bombast from this compromising friendship:"
I thought him sincere, "says he of the younger Robespierre, in a
letter intended to be shown," but were he my father and had aimed
at tyranny, I would have stabbed him myself.

"On returning to Paris, after having knocked at several doors, he
takes Barras for a patron.

Barras, the most brazen of the corrupt, Barras, who has overthrown and contrived the death of
his two former protectors. [1127] Among the contending parties and fanaticisms which succeed each
other he keeps cool and free to dispose of himself as he pleases, indifferent to every cause and
concerning himself only with his own interests.-- On the evening of
the 12th of Vendémiaire, on leaving the Feydeau theatre, and noticing
the preparations of the sectionists, [1128] he said to Junot:" Ah,
if the sections put me in command, I would guarantee to place them
in the Tuileries in two hours and have all those Convention rascals
driven out!

"Five
hours later, summoned by Barras and the Conventionalists, he takes"
three minutes "to make up his mind, and, instead of" blowing up the
representatives, "he mows down the Parisians.

Like a good condottière, he does not commit himself, considers the first that offers and then
the one who offers the most, only to back out afterwards, and finally, seizing the opportunity,
to grab everything.-- He will more and more become a true condottière, that is to say, leader
of a band, increasingly independent, pretending to submit under the pretext of the public good,
looking out only for his own interest, self-centered, general on his own account and for his own
advantage in his Italian campaign before and after the 18th of Fructidor.
[1129] He is, however, a condottière of the first class, already aspiring
to the loftiest summits," with no stopping-place but the throne or
the scaffold, "[1130]" determined [1131] to master France, and through
France Europe. Without distraction, sleeping only three hours during
the night, "he plays with ideas, men, religions, and governments, exploiting
people with incomparable dexterity and brutality.

He is, in the choice of means as of ends, a superior artist, inexhaustible in glamour, seductions,
corruption, and intimidation, fascinating, and yet more terrible than any
wild beast suddenly released among a herd of browsing cattle.

The expression is not too strong and was uttered by an eye-witness, almost
at this very date, a friend and a competent diplomat:" You know that,
while I am very fond of the dear general, I call him to myself the
little tiger, so as to properly characterize his figure, tenacity,
and courage, the rapidity of his movements, and all that he has in
him which maybe fairly regarded in that sense.

"[1132] At this very date, previous to official adulation and the adoption of a recognized type, we see
him face to face in two portraits drawn from life, one physical, by a truthful painter, Guérin,
and the other moral, by a superior woman, Madame de Staël, who to the best European culture added
tact and worldly perspicacity. Both portraits agree so perfectly that each seems to interpret
and complete the other."

I saw him for the first time, "[1133] says Madame de Staël," on his
return to France after the treaty of Campo-Formio. After recovering
from the first excitement of admiration there succeeded to this a decided
sentiment of fear. "And yet," at this time he had no power, for it was
even then supposed that the Directory looked upon him with a good
deal of suspicion.

"People regarded him sympathetically, and were even prepossessed in his favor;" thus the fear
he inspired was simply due to the singular effect of his person on
almost all who approached him.

I had met men worthy of respect and had likewise met men of ferocious character; but nothing in the
impression which Bonaparte produced on me reminded me of either. I soon found, in the various opportunities
I had of meeting him during his stay in Paris, that his character was not to be described in
terms commonly employed; he was neither mild nor violent, nor gentle
nor cruel, like certain personages one happens to know.

A being like him, wholly unlike anybody else, could neither feel nor excite sympathy; he was
both more and less than a man; his figure, intellect, and language bore the imprint of a foreign nationality....
far from being reassured on seeing Bonaparte oftener, he intimidated me more and more every
day. I had a confused impression that he was not to be influenced by any emotion of sympathy or affection.
He regards a human being as a fact, an object, and not as a fellow-creature. He neither hates nor
loves, he exists for himself alone; the rest of humanity are so many ciphers. The force of his
will consists in the imperturbable calculation of his egoism. He is a skillful player who has the
human species for an antagonist, and whom he proposes to checkmate... Every time that I heard him
talk I was struck with his superiority; it bore no resemblance to that of men informed and cultivated
through study and social intercourse, such as we find in France and
England.

His conversation indicated the tact of circumstances, like that of the hunter in pursuit of his
prey. His spirit seemed a cold, keen sword-blade, which freezes while it wounds. I felt a profound
irony in his mind, which nothing great or beautiful could escape, not even his own fame, for
he despised the nation whose suffrages he sought... "--" With him, everything was means or aims;
spontaneity, whether for good or for evil, was entirely absent. "No law, no ideal and abstract
rule, existed for him;" he examined things only with reference to their immediate usefulness;
a general principle was repugnant to him, either as so much nonsense or as an enemy. "Now, if we
contemplate Guérin's portrait, [1134] we see a spare body, whose
narrow shoulders under the uniform wrinkled by sudden movements, the
neck swathed in its high twisted cravat, the temples covered by long,
smooth, straight hair, exposing only the mask, the hard features intensified
through strong contrasts of light and shade, the cheeks hollow up
to the inner angle of the eye, the projecting cheek-bones, the massive,
protuberant jaw, the sinuous, mobile lips, pressed together as if
attentive, the large, clear eyes, deeply sunk under the broad, arched
eyebrows, the fixed, oblique look, as penetrating as a rapier, and
the two creases which extend from the base of the nose to the brow,
as if in a frown of suppressed anger and determined will.

Add to this the accounts of his contemporaries [1135] who saw or heard the curt accent or the
sharp, abrupt gesture, the interrogating, imperious, absolute tone of voice, and we comprehend
how, the moment they accosted him, they felt the dominating hand which seizes them, presses them
down, holds them firmly and never relaxes its grasp.

Already, at the receptions of the Directory, when conversing with
men, or even with ladies, he puts questions" which prove the superiority
of the questioner to those who have to answer them.

"[1136]" Are you married? "says he to this one, and" How many children have you? "to another.
To that one," When did you come here? "or, again," When are you going
away?

He places himself in front of a French lady, well-known for her beauty and wit and the vivacity
of her opinions, "like the stiffest of German generals, and says:'Madame, I don't like women
who meddle with politics!'" Equality, ease, familiarity and companionship, vanish at his approach.
Eighteen months before this, on his appointment as commander-in-chief
of the army in Italy, Admiral Decrès, who had known him well at Paris,
[1137] learns that he is to pass through Toulon: "I at once propose to my
comrades to introduce them, venturing to do so on my acquaintance with
him in Paris. Full of eagerness and joy, I start off. The door opens
and I am about to press forwards," he afterwards wrote, "when the
attitude, the look, and the tone of voice suffice to arrest me.

And yet there was nothing offensive about him; still, this was enough. I never tried after that to
overstep the line thus imposed on me." A few days later, at Albenga, [1138] certain generals
of division, and among them Augereau, a vulgar, heroic old soldier, vain of his tall figure and courage,
arrive at headquarters, not well disposed toward the little parvenu
sent out to them from Paris.

Recalling the description of him which had been given to them, Augereau
is abusive and insubordinate beforehand: one of Barras'favorites, the Vendémiaire
general, a street general, "not yet tried out on the field of battle,
[1139] hasn't a friend, considered a loner because he is the only
one who can thinks for himself, looking peaky, said to be a mathematician
and a dreamer!"

They enter, and Bonaparte keeps them waiting. At last he appears, with his sword and belt on,
explains the disposition of the forces, gives them his orders, and
dismisses them. Augereau has remained silent; It is only when he gets
out of doors does he recover himself and fall back on his accustomed
oaths.

He admits to Massena that "that little bastard of a general frightened him." He cannot "comprehend
the ascendancy which made him feel crushed right away." [1140] Extraordinary and superior, made
for command [1141] and for conquest, singular and of an unique species, is the feeling of all
his contemporaries. Those who are most familiar with the histories of other nations, Madame de
Staël and, after her, Stendhal, go back to the right sources to comprehend him, to the "petty Italian
tyrants of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries," to Castruccio-Castracani, to the Braccio of
Mantua, to the Piccinino, the Malatestas of Rimini, and the Sforzas of Milan. In their opinion, however,
it is only a chance analogy, a psychological resemblance. Really, however, and) historically it
is a positive relationship. He is a descendant of the great Italians, the men of action of the
year 1400, the military adventurers, usurpers, and founders of governments lasting their
life-time. He inherits in direct affiliation their blood and inward organization, mental and moral.
[1142] A bud, collected in their forest, before the age of refinement, impoverishment, and decay,
has been transported into a similar and remote nursery, where a tragic and militant régime is
permanently established. There the primitive germ is preserved intact and transmitted from one
generation to another, renewed and invigorated by interbreeding. Finally, at the last stage of its
growth, it springs out of the ground and develops magnificently, blooming the same as ever, and
producing the same fruit as on the original stem. Modern cultivation and French gardening have pruned
away but very few of its branches and blunted a few of its thorns: its original texture, inmost
substance, and spontaneous development have not changed.

The soil of France and of Europe, however, broken up by revolutionary tempests, is more favorable to its
roots than the worn-out fields of the Middle Ages and there it grows by itself, without being
subject, like its Italian ancestors, to rivalry with its own species; nothing checks the growth; it
may absorb all the juices of the ground, all the air and sunshine of the region, and become the Colossus
which the ancient plants, equally deep-rooted and certainly as absorbent, but born in a less friable
soil and more crowded together, could not provide. II. The Leader and Statesman Intelligence
during the Italian Renaissance and at the present day.-- Integrity
of Bonaparte's mental machinery.-- Flexibility, force, and tenacity
of his attention.-- Another difference between Napoleon's intellect
and that of his contemporaries.-- He thinks objects and not words.--
His antipathy to Ideology.-- Little or no literary or philosophical
education.-- Self-taught through direct observation and technical
instruction.-- His fondness for details.-- His inward vision of physical
objects and places.-- His mental portrayal of positions, distances,
and quantities.

"Don't preach to me," was the rather unexpected reply, for Fred was not perfect yet, though
he had gained a victory or two over his temper of late.

"I didn't mean to preach, but I do wish the boys would come home, it is growing late; and with
our heavy baskets we shall only just get in in time."

"Halloo!" shouted Fred, getting on the bank. "Come back, won't you, or we shall be too late;
come, John, you are the eldest, come along." But his call was drowned in the sound of their
voices, which were echoing through the weeds, much to the annoyance, no doubt, of the stately
pheasants who were not accustomed to human sounds like these. They were not at any great distance,
and Fred could just distinguish parts of their conversation.

John and Harcourt were urging White, a delicate boy, and no climber, to mount a high tree in
the wood, to enjoy they said the glorious sea-view; but in reality to make themselves merry
at his expense, being certain that if he managed to scramble up he would have some difficulty
in getting down, and would get a terrible fright at least. White stood at the bottom of the
tree, looking at his companions as they rode on one of the higher branches of a fine spruce fir. 

(SR.)] [Footnote 1160: Bourrienne, II., 116; IV., 238: "He had not
a good memory for proper names, words, and dates, but it was prodigious
for facts and localities.

I remember that, on the way from Paris to Toulon, he called my attention
to ten places suitable for giving battle.... It was a souvenir of his
youthful travels, and he described to me the lay of the ground, designating
the positions he would have taken even before we were on the spot."

March 17, 1800, puncturing a card with a pin, he shows Bourrienne the place where he intends to
beat Mélas, at San Juliano. "Four months after this I found myself
at San Juliano with his portfolio and dispatches, and, that very evening,
at Torre-di-Gafolo, a league off, I wrote the bulletin of the battle
under his dictation"

(of Marengo).-- De Ségur, II., 30 (Narrative of M. Daru to M. De Ségur Aug. 13, 1805, at the
headquarters of La Manche, Napoleon dictates to M. Daru the complete plan of the campaign
against Austria): "Order of marches, their duration, places of convergence
or meeting of the columns, attacks in full force, the various movements
and mistakes of the enemy, all, in this rapid dictation, was foreseen
two months beforehand and at a distance of two hundred leagues....
The battle-field, the victories, and even the very days on which we
were to enter Munich and Vienna were then announced and written down
as it all turned out.... Daru saw these oracles fulfilled on the designated
days up to our entry into Munich; if there were any differences of
time and not of results between Munich and Vienna, they were all in
our favor."-- M. de La Vallette, "Mémoires," II., p. 35.

(He was postmaster-general): "It often happened to me that I was not as certain as he was of
distances and of many details in my administration on which he was able to set me straight."-- On
returning from the camp at Bologna, Napoleon encounters a squad of soldiers who had got lost,
asks what regiment they belong to, calculates the day they left,
the road they took, what distance they should have marched. and then tells
them, "You will find your battalion at such a halting place."-- At
this time, "the army numbered 200,000 men."] [Footnote 1161: Madame
de Rémusat, I., 103, 268.] [Footnote 1162: Thibaudeau, p. 25, I (on the
Jacobin survivors): "They are nothing but common artisans, painters,
etc., with lively imaginations, a little better instructed than the
people, living amongst the people and exercising influence over them."--
Madame de Rémusat, I., 271 (on the royalist party): "It is very easy
to deceive that party because its starting-point is not what it is,
but what it would like to have."-- I., 337: "The Bourbons will never
see anything except through the Oeil de Boeuf."-- Thibaudeau, p. 46:
"Insurrections and emigrations are skin diseases; terrorism is an
internal malady."

Ibid., 75: "What now keeps the spirit of the army up is the idea soldiers have that they occupy the places
of former nobles."] [Footnote 1163: Thibaudeau, pp. 419 to 452. (Both texts are given in separate columns.)
And passim, for instance, p. 84, the following portrayal of the
decadal system of worship under the Republic: "It was imagined that
citizens could be got together in churches, to freeze with cold and hear,
read, and study laws, in which there was already but little fun for
those who executed them."

Another example
of the way in which his ideas expressed themselves through imagery
(Pelet de la Lozère, p. 242): "I am not satisfied with the customs
regulations on the Alps.

They show no life. We don't
hear the rattle of crown pieces pouring into the public treasury." To appreciate
the vividness of Napoleon's expressions and thought the reader must
consult, especially, the five or six long conversations, noted on the
very evening of the day they occurred by Roederer; the two or three
conversations likewise noted by Miot de Melito; the scenes narrated
by Beugnot; the notes of Pelet de la Lozère and by Stanislas de Girardin,
and nearly the entire volume by Thibaudeau.] [Footnote 1164: Pelet de la
Lozère, 63, 64. (On the physiological differences between the English
and the French.)-- Madame de Rémusat, I., 273, 392: "You, Frenchmen,
are not in earnest about anything, except, perhaps, equality, and
even here you would gladly give this up if you were sure of being
the foremost.... The hope of advancement in the world should be cherished
by everybody.... Keep your vanity always alive The severity of the
republican government would have worried you to death.

What started the Revolution? Vanity. What will end it? Vanity, again. Liberty is merely a pretext."--
III., 153 "Liberty is the craving of a small and privileged class
by nature, with faculties superior to the common run of men; this
class, therefore, may be put under restraint with impunity; equality,
on the contrary, catches the multitude."-- Thibaudeau, 99: "What do
I care for the opinions and cackle of the drawing-room?

I never heed it. I pay attention only to what rude peasants say."

His estimates of certain situations are masterpieces of picturesque concision. "Why did I
stop and sign the preliminaries of Leoben? Because I played vingt-et-un and was satisfied with
twenty." His insight into (dramatic) character is that of the most
sagacious critic. "The'Mahomet'of Voltaire is neither a prophet nor
an Arab, only an impostor graduated out of the École Polytechnique."--
"Madame de Genlis tries to define virtue as if she were the discoverer
of it."-- (On Madame de Staël): "This woman teaches people to think
who never took to it, or have forgotten how."-- (On Chateaubriand,
one of whose relations had just been shot): "He will write a few pathetic
pages and read them aloud in the faubourg Saint-Germain; pretty women
will shed tears, and that will console him."-- (On Abbé Delille):
"He is wit in its dotage."-- (On Pasquier and Molé): "I make the most
of one, and made the other."-- Madame de Rémusat, II., 389, 391, 394,
399, 402; III., 67.] [Footnote 1165: Bourrienne, II., 281, 342: "It
pained me to write official statements under his dictation, of which
each was an imposture."

He always answered: "My dear sir, you are a simpleton-- you understand nothing!"-- Madame de
Rémusat, II., 205, 209.] [Footnote 1166: See especially the campaign bulletins for 1807, so
insulting to the king and queen of Prussia, but, owing to that fact, so well calculated to excite
the contemptuous laughter and jeers of the soldiers.] [Footnote 1167: In "La Correspondance
de Napoleon," published in thirty-two volumes, the letters are arranged
under dates.-- In his'"Correspondance avec Eugène, vice-roi d'Italie,"
they are arranged under chapters; also with Joseph, King of Naples
and afterwards King of Spain. It is easy to select other chapters
not less instructive: one on foreign affairs (letters to M. de Champagny,
M de Talleyrand, and M. de Bassano); another on the finances (letters
to M. Gaudin and to M. Mollien); another on the navy (letters to Admiral
Decrès); another on military administration (letters to General Clarke);
another on the affairs of the Church (letters to M. Portalis and to
M. Bigot de Préameneu); another on the Police (letters to Fouché),
etc.-- Finally, by dividing and distributing his letters according
as they relate to this or that grand enterprise, especially to this
or that military campaign, a third classification could be made.--
In this way we can form a concept of the vastness of his positive
knowledge, also of the scope of his intellect and talents.

Cf. especially the following letters
to Prince Eugène, June II, 1806 (on the supplies and expenses of
the Italian army); June 1st and 18th, 1806 (on the occupation of Dalmatia,
and on the military situation, offensive and defensive).

To Gen. Dejean, April 28, 1806 (on the war supplies); June 27, 1806 (on the fortifications of
Peschiera) July 20, 1806 (on the fortifications of Wesel and of Juliers).-- "Mes souvenirs sur Napoleon",
p. 353 by the Count Chaptal: "One day, the Emperor said to me that he would like to organize a military
school at Fontainebleau; he then explained to me the principal features of the establishment,
and ordered me to draw up the necessary articles and bring them to him the next day. I worked all
night and they were ready at the appointed hour. He read them over and pronounced them correct, but
not complete. He bade me take a seat and then dictated to me for two
or three hours a plan which consisted of five hundred and seventeen
articles. Nothing more perfect, in my opinion, ever issued from a man's brain.-- At another
time, the Empress Josephine was to take the waters at Aix-la-Chapelle,
and the Emperor summoned me.'The Empress,'said he,'is to leave to-morrow
morning.

She is a good-natured, easy-going woman and must have her route and behavior marked out for her. Write
it down.'He then dictated instructions to me on twenty-one large sheets of paper, in which everything
she was to say and to do was designated, even the questions and replies she was to make to the authorities
on the way."] [Footnote 1168: One French league equals approximately 4 km. 70,000 square
leagues then equal 1,120,000 km. 2, or 400,000 square miles or 11% of the United
States but 5 times the size of Great Britain. (SR.)] [Footnote 1169:
Cf. in the "Correspondance" the letters dated at Schoenbrunn near Vienna,
during August and September, 1809, and especially: the great number
of letters and orders relating to the English expeditions to Walcheren;
the letters to chief-judge Régnier and to the arch-chancellor Cambacérès
on expropriations for public benefit (Aug. 21, Sept. 7 and 29); the
letters and orders to M. de Champagny to treat with Austria (Aug. 19,
and Sept. 10, 15, 18, 22, and 23); the letters to Admirable Decrès,
to despatch naval expeditions to the colonies (Aug. 17 and Sept.
26); the letter to Mollien on the budget of expenditure (Aug. 8);
the letter to Clarke on the statement of guns in store throughout
the empire (Sept. 14).

Other letters, ordering the preparation of two
treatises on military art (Oct. 1), two works on the history and encroachments
of the Holy See (Oct. 3), prohibiting conferences at Saint-Sulpice
(Sept. 15), and forbidding priests to preach outside the churches
(Sept. 24).-- From Schoenbrunn, he watches the details of public works
in France and Italy; for instance, the letters to M. le Montalivet
(Sept. 30), to send an auditor post to Parma, to have a dyke repaired
at once, and (Oct. 8) to hasten the building of several bridges and
quays at Lyons.] [Footnote 1170: He says himself; "I always transpose
my theme in many ways."] [Footnote 1171: Madame de Rémusat, I., 117,
120.

"1 heard M. de Talleyrand exclaim one day, some what out of humor,'This
devil of a man misleads you in all directions.

Even his passions escape
you, for he finds some way to counterfeit them, although they really
exist.'"-- For example, immediately prior to the violent confrontation
with Lord Whitworth, which was to put an end to the treaty of Amiens,
he was chatting and amusing himself with the women and the infant
Napoleon, his nephew, in the gayest and most unconcerned manner: "He
is suddenly told that the company had assembled.

His countenance
changes like that of an actor when the scene shifts. He seems to
turn pale at will and his features contract"; he rises, steps up precipitately
to the English ambassador, and fulminates for two hours before two
hundred persons. (Hansard's Parliamentary History, vol.

XXVI, dispatches of Lord Whitworth, pp. 1798, 1302, 1310.)-- "He often observes that the politician
should calculate every advantage that could be gained by his defects." One day, after an explosion
he says to Abbé de Pradt: "You thought me angry! you are mistaken. Anger with me never mounts higher
than here (pointing to his neck)."] [Footnote 1172: Roederer, III. (The first days of Brumaire,
year VIII.)] [Footnote 1173: Bourrienne, III., 114.] [Footnote 1174: Bourrienne, II., 228. (Conversation
with Bourrienne in the park at Passeriano.)] [Footnote 1175: Ibid., II., 331. (Written down by Bourrienne
the same evening.)] [Footnote 1176: Madame de Rémusat, I., 274.-- De Ségur, II., 459. (Napoleon's
own words on the eve of the battle of Austerlitz): "Yes, if I had taken Acre, I would have assumed
the turban, I would have put the army in loose breeches; I would no longer have exposed it, except
at the last extremity; I would have made it my sacred battalion, my immortals. It is with Arabs, Greeks,
and Armenians that I would have ended the war against the Turks.

Instead of one battle in Moravia I would have gained a battle of Issus;
I would have made myself emperor of the East, and returned to Paris by the
way of Constantinople."-- De Pradt, p. 19 (Napoleon's own words at
Mayence, September, 1804): "Since two hundred years there is nothing
more to do in Europe; it is only in the East that things can be carried
out on a grand scale."] [Footnote 1177: Madame de Rémusat, I., 407.--
Miot de Melito, II., 214 (a few weeks after his coronation): "There
will be no repose in Europe until it is under one head, under an Emperor,
whose officers would be kings, who would distribute kingdoms to his
lieutenants, who would make one of them King of Italy, another King
of Bavaria, here a landmann of Switzerland, and here a stadtholder
of Holland, etc."] [Footnote 1178: "Correspondance de Napoleon I.,"
vol.

XXX., 550, 558.

(Memoirs dictated by Napoleon at Saint Hélène.)-- Miot de Melito,
II., 290.-- D'Hausonvillc, "l'Église Romaine et le Premier Empire,
passim.-- Mémorial."

"Paris would become the capital of the Christian world, and I would have
governed the religious world as well as the political world."] [Footnote
1179: De Pradt, 23.] [Footnote 1180: "Mémoires et Mémorial."

"It was essential that Paris should become the unique capital, not to be compared with other capitals.
The masterpieces of science and of art, the museums, all that had illustrated past centuries, were
to be collected there. Napoleon regretted that he could not transport St. Peter's to Paris; the
meanness of Notre Dame dissatisfied him."] [Footnote 1181: Villemain, "Souvenir contemporaines,"
I., 175. Napoleon's statement to M. de Narbonne early in March, 1812,
and repeated by him to Villemain an hour afterwards. The wording is
at second hand and merely a very good imitation, while the ideas
are substantially Napoleon's. Cf. his fantasies about Italy and the
Mediterranean, equally exaggerated ("Correspondence," XXX., 548),
and an admirable improvisation on Spain and the colonies at Bayonne.--
De Pradt.

"Mémoires sur les revolutions
d'Espagne," p. 130: "Therefore Napoleon talked, or rather poetised;
he Ossianized for a long time... like a man full of a sentiment which
oppressed him, in an animated, picturesque style, and with the impetuosity,
imagery, and originality which were familiar to him,... on the vast
throne of Mexico and Peru, on the greatness of the sovereigns who
should possess them.... and on the results which these great foundations
would have on the universe.

I had often heard him, but under no circumstances had I ever heard him develop such a wealth
and compass of imagination.

Whether it was the richness of his subject, or whether his faculties had become excited by the scene
he conjured up, and all the chords of the instrument vibrated at once, he was sublime."] [Footnote
1182: Roederer, III., 541 (February 2, 1809): "I love power. But I love it as an artist.... I love it
as a musician loves his violin, for the tones, chords, and harmonies
he can get out of it."] CHAPTER II. HIS IDEAS, PASSIONS AND INTELLIGENCE.
I. Intense Passions. Personality and character during the Italian Renaissance
and during the present time.-- Intensity of the passions in Bonaparte.--
His excessive touchiness.-- His immediate violence.-- His impatience,
rapidity, and need of talking.-- His temperament, tension, and faults.
On taking a near view of the contemporaries of Dante and Michael
Angelo, we find that they differ from us more in character than in
intellect.

[1201] With us, three hundred years of police and of courts of justice, of social discipline
and peaceful habits, of hereditary civilization, have diminished the force and violence of the passions
natural to Man. In Italy, in the Renaissance epoch, they were still intact; human emotions at that
time were keener and more profound than at the present day; the appetites were ardent and more
unbridled; man's will was more impetuous and more tenacious; whatever motive inspired, whether
pride, ambition, jealousy, hatred, love, envy, or sensuality, the
inward spring strained with an energy and relaxed with a violence
that has now disappeared.

All these energies reappear in this great survivor of the fifteenth
century; in him the play of the nervous machine is the same as with
his Italian ancestors; never was there, even with the Malatestas and
the Borgias, a more sensitive and more impulsive intellect, one capable
of such electric shocks and explosions, in which the roar and flashes
of tempest lasted longer and of which the effects were more irresistible.

In his mind no idea remains speculative and pure; none is a simple
transcript of the real, or a simple picture of the possible; each
is an internal eruption, which suddenly and spontaneously spends itself
in action; each darts forth to its goal and would reach it without
stopping were it not kept back and restrained by force [1202] Sometimes,
the eruption is so sudden, that the restraint does not come soon
enough.

One day, in Egypt, [1203] on entertaining a number of French ladies at dinner, he has one of them,
who was very pretty and whose husband he had just sent off to France, placed alongside of him;
suddenly, as if accidentally, he overturns a pitcher of water on her, and, under the pretence of
enabling her to rearrange her wet dress, he leads her into another room where he remains with
her a long time, too long, while the other guests seated at the table wait quietly and exchange
glances. Another day, at Paris, toward the epoch of the Concordat, [1204] he says to Senator Volney:
"France wants a religion."

Volney replies in a frank, sententious way, "France wants the Bourbons." Whereupon he gives Volney
a kick in the stomach and he falls unconscious; on being moved to a friend's house, he remains
there ill in bed for several days.-- No man is more irritable, so soon in a passion; and all the
more because he purposely gives way to his irritation; for, doing this just at the right
moment, and especially before witnesses, it strikes terror; it enables him to extort concessions
and maintain obedience.

His explosions of anger, half-calculated, half-involuntary, serve
him quite as much as they relieve him, in public as well as in private,
with strangers as with intimates, before constituted bodies, with
the Pope, with cardinals, with ambassadors, with Talleyrand, with
Beugnot, with anybody that comes along, [1205] whenever he wishes
to set an example or "keep the people around him on the alert."

The public and the army regard him as impassible; but, apart from
the battles in which he wears a mask of bronze, apart from the official
ceremonies in which he assumes a necessarily dignified air, impression
and expression with him are almost always confounded, the inward overflowing
in the outward, the action, like a blow, getting the better of him.

At Saint Cloud, caught by Josephine in the arms of another woman,
he runs after the unlucky interrupter in such a way that "she barely
has time to escape"; [1206] and again, that evening, keeping up his
fury so as to put her down completely, "he treats her in the most
outrageous manner, smashing every piece of furniture that comes in
his way."

A little before the Empire, Talleyrand, a great mystifier, tells
Berthier that the First Consul wanted to assume the title of king.

Berthier,
in eager haste, crosses the drawing-room full of company, accosts
the master of the house and, with a beaming smile, "congratulates
him."

[1207] At the word king, Bonaparte's eyes flash. Grasping Berthier by the throat, he pushes him
back against the wall, exclaiming, "You fool! who told you to come here and stir up my bile in
this way? Another time don't come on such errands."-- Such is the first impulse, the instinctive
action, to pounce on people and seize them by the throat; we divine under each sentence, and on every
page he writes, out-bursts and assaults of this description, the
physiognomy and intonation of a man who rushes forward and knocks
people down.

Accordingly, when dictating in his cabinet, "he strides up and down the room," and, "if excited,"
which is often the case, "his language consists of violent imprecations, and even of oaths, which are
suppressed in what is written." [1208] But these are not always suppressed, for those who have
seen the original minutes of his correspondence on ecclesiastical
affairs find dozens of them, the b..., the p... and the swearwords
of the coarsest kind.

[1209] Never was there such impatient touchiness.
"When dressing himself, [1210] he throws on the floor or into the fire
any part of his attire which does not suit him.... On gala-days and
on grand ceremonial occasions his valets are obliged to agree together
when they shall seize the right moment to put some thing on him...
He tears off or breaks whatever causes him the slightest discomfort,
while the poor valet who has been the means of it meets with a violent
and positive proof of his anger.

No thought was ever more carried away by its own
speed."

His handwriting, when he tries to write, "is a mass of disconnected
and undecipherable signs; [1211] the words lack one-half of their
letters."

On reading it over himself, he cannot tell what it means. At last,
he becomes almost incapable of producing a handwritten letter, while
his signature is a mere scrawl.

He accordingly dictates, but so fast that his secretaries can scarcely keep pace with him: on their
first attempt the perspiration flows freely and they succeed in noting
down only the half of what he says.

Bourrienne, de Meneval, and Maret invent a stenography of their own,
for he never repeats any of his phrases; so much the worse for the
pen if it lags behind, and so much the better if a volley of exclamations
or of oaths gives it a chance to catch up.-- Never did speech flow
and overflow in such torrents, often without either discretion or
prudence, even when the outburst is neither useful nor creditable
the reason is that both spirit and intellect are charged to excess
subject to this inward pressure the improvisator and polemic, under
full headway, [1212] take the place of the man of business and the
statesman.

"With him," says a good observer, [1213] "talking is a prime necessity, and, assuredly, among
the prerogatives of high rank, he ranks first that of speaking without interruption." Even at the Council
of State he allows himself to run on, forgetting the business on hand; he starts off right and
left with some digression or demonstration, some invective or other,
for two or three hours at a stretch, [1214] insisting over and over
again, bent on convincing or prevailing, and ending in demanding of
the others if he is not right, "and, in this case, never failing to
find that all have yielded to the force of his arguments."

On reflection, he knows the value of an assent thus obtained, and, pointing to his chair, he
observes: "It must be admitted that it is easy to be brilliant when one is in that seat!" Nevertheless
he has enjoyed his intellectual exercise and given way to his passion, which controls him far more
than he controls it. "My nerves are very irritable," he said of himself,
"and when in this state were my pulse not always regular I should risk
going crazy."

[1215] The tension of accumulated impressions is often too great,
and it ends in a physical break-down. Joe lay
on the sofa before the dining room window, watching the blue sea sit a distance, and thinking
with all the ardour of youthful longing of the time when his back should be well, and he should
be a voyager in one of those beautiful ships. He should have no regrets, and no friends to
regret him; then he groaned at the pain and inconvenience and privation of his present state,
and panted for restoration. Mrs. Parker entered and eat down by him.

"Is Sir J. C---- gone, Ma'am?"

"Yes, he has been gone some minutes."

"What does he say?" asked the lad earnestly. "He said very little to me, nothing indeed, only
all that fudge I am always hearing--'rest, patience,' and so on."

"He thinks it a very serious case, my dear; he says that the recumbent posture is very important."

"But for how long, Ma'am? I would lie twelve months patiently enough if I hoped then to be
allowed to walk about, and to be able to do as other boys do."

"Sir J. C---- thinks, Joe, that you never will recover. I am grieved to tell you so, but it
is the truth, and we think it best you should know it. Your spine is so injured that it is
impossible you should ever recover; but you may have many enjoyments, though not able to be
active like other boys. You must keep up your spirits; it is the will of God and you must submit."

Poor Mrs. Parker having disburdened her mind of a great load, and performed her dreaded task,
left the room, telling her husband that the boy bore it very well, indeed, he did not seem
to feel it much. The bell being already out for church, she called the young people to accompany
her thither, leaving one maid-servant and the errand boy at home, and poor Joe to meditate
on his newly-acquired information that he would be a cripple for life. Edith looked in and
asked softly, "shall I stay?" but the "No" was so very decided, and so very stern that she
did not repeat the question, so they all went off together, a cheerful family party.

The errand boy betook himself to a chair in the kitchen, where he was soon sound asleep, and
the maid-servant to the back gate to gossip with a sailor; so Joe was left alone with a hand-bell
on the table, plenty of books if he liked to read them, and as far as outward comforts went
with nothing to complain of. "And here I am a cripple for life," ejaculated the poor fellow,
when the sound of their voices died away and the bell ceased; "and, oh, may that life be a
short one! I wish, oh, I wish, I were dead! who would care to hear this? no one--I wish from
my heart I were dead;" and here the boy sobbed till his poor weak frame was convulsed with
agony, and he felt as if his heart (for he had a heart) would break.

In his wretchedness he longed for affection, he longed for some one who would really care for
him, "but no one cares for me," groaned the lad, "no one, and I wish I might die to night."
Ah, Joe, may God change you very much before he grants that wish! After he had sobbed a while,
he began to think more calmly, but his thoughts were thoughts of revenge and hatred. "John
has been the cause of it all." But when the opportunity arrived there could be seen suddenly emerging
from all this shadow, as from an ambush, an angular, narrow forehead, a fatal glance, a menacing
chin, an enormous hand, and a monstrous rattan. When he laughed, which was rare and terrible,
his thin lips parted and displayed not only his teeth but his gums, and a savage, flat curl
formed round his nose. When serious he was a bulldog, when he laughed he was a tiger. His guiding
principles-- or perhaps instincts is the more appropriate word-- were respect for authority and hatred
of rebellion. In his eyes all crimes were only forms of rebellion.

       Give a human face, writes Hugo, to the dog-son of a she-wolf and
we shall have Javert.

No wonder that his glance was a gimlet, or that his whole life was divided between watching
and overlooking. And, as if all this analytic rodomontade was not enough, we are told in characteristic
rhetorical vagueness that he was a pitiless watchman, a marble-hearted spy, a Brutus contained
in a Vidocq.

Readers of Dickens will remember that Mr. Bucket appears on the scene
in Bleak House in a weird and mysterious way, which suggests that
Inspector Byrne, of New York, had been a student of lawyer Tulkinghorn's
methods when he undertook to pump Alderman Jaehne.

The sly lawyer is plying Snagsby with rare old port in the dim twilight and evolving his story,
when suddenly the victim becomes conscious of the presence of "a person with a hat and stick
in his hand, who was not there when he himself came in, and has not since entered by either of
the windows." He is all alone, Emilie, do go and sit with him."

"It is just what I wish to do, dear, but do you think he will let me?"

"Yes, oh yes, try at least," said Edith, and they parted.

When Emilie rang at the bell Joe was in the midst of his sorrow, but thinking it might only
be a summons for Mr. Parker, he did not take much notice of it until the door opened and the
preaching German lady, as he called Emilie, entered the room. ‘ The sister’ s eye was ever on the
watch to provide for the poet’ s pen.’ He had a most observant eye, and she also for him; and
his poems are sometimes little more than poetic versions of her descriptions of the objects which
she had seen; and which he treated as seen by himself. Look at the poem on the‘ Daffodils’ and compare
with it these words taken from the sister’ s Journal. It was as unlike the lives of most literary
or other men, as the most original of his poems are unlike the ordinary run of even good poetry.
Their outward life was exactly like that of the dalesmen or‘ statesmen’— for so the native yeomen
proprietors are called— with whom they lived on the most friendly footing, and among whom they
found their chief society.

Outwardly their life was so, but inwardly it was cheered by imaginative visitings to which these
were strangers.

Sheltered as they then were from the agitations of the world, the
severe frugality of the life they led ministered in more than one
way to feed that poetry which introduced a new element into English
thought.

It kept the mind cool, and the eye clear, to feel once more that
kinship between the outward world and the soul of man, to perceive
that impassioned expression in the countenance of all nature, which,
if felt by primeval men, ages of cultivation have long forgotten.

It also made them wise to practise the same frugality in emotional enjoyment which they exercised
in household economy. "I am very sorry for you," she said quietly, "very
sorry," and she approached a little nearer to his couch, and looked at him so compassionately
that Joe believed her.

"Don't you think that fellow John ought to be ashamed of himself, and I don't believe he ever
thinks of it," said Joe, recurring to his old feeling of revenge and hatred.

"Perhaps he thinks of it more than you imagine," said Emilie, "but don't fancy that no one
cares about you, that is the way to be very unhappy."

"It is true," said Joe, sadly.

"God cares for you," however, replied Emily softly.

"Oh, if I could think that, it would be a comfort," Miss Schomberg, "and I do need comfort;
I do, I do indeed, groaned the boy."

Emilie's tears fell fast. No words of sympathy however touching, no advice however wise and
good, no act however kind could have melted Joe as the tears of that true-hearted girl. He
felt confidence in their sincerity, but that any one should feel for him, should shed tears
for him, was so new, so softening an idea, that he was subdued. Not another word passed on
the subject. Emilie returned to the piano, and soon had the joy of seeing Joe in a tranquil
sleep; she shaded the lamp that it might not awake him, covered his poor cold feet with her
warm tartan, and with a soft touch lifted the thick hair from his burning forehead, and stood
looking at him with such intense interest, suck earnest prayerful benevolence, that it might
have been an angel visit to that poor sufferer's pillow, so soothing was it in its influence.
He half opened his eyes, saw that look, felt that touch, and tears stole down his cheeks; tears
not of anger, nor discontent, but of something like gratitude that after all one person in
the world cared for him. His sleep was short, and when he awoke, he said abruptly to Emilie,
"I want to feel less angry against John," Miss Schomberg, "but I don't know how. It was such
a cruel trick, such a cowardly trick, and I cannot forgive him."

"I don't want to preach," said Emily, smiling, "but perhaps if you would read a little in this
book you would find help in the very difficult duty of forgiving men their trespasses."

"Ah, the Bible, but I find that dull reading; it always makes me low spirited, I always associate
it with lectures from uncle and Mr. Barton. When I did wrong I was plied up with texts."

Emilie did not know what answer to make to this speech. Gradually, in this herd of individuals,
all equal and all alike, particular groups define themselves, take shape, and separate: we see
appearing more and more precise relationships, more and more distinct
habitations, more and more hereditary homesteads, fishing, hunting,
and war groups, and small workshops; if the people is a conquering
people, castes establish themselves.

At length, we find in this expanded and solidly-organized social body provinces, communes, churches,
hospitals, schools, corporate bodies and associations of every species and dimension, temporary
or permanent, voluntary or involuntary, in brief, a multitude of social engines constructed
out of human beings who, on account of personal interest, habit,
and constraint, or through inclination, conscience, and generosity,
co-operate according to a public or tacit statute in effecting in
the material or spiritual order of things this or that determinate
undertaking.

In France, to-day, there are, besides the State, eighty-six departments, thirty-six thousand
communes, four church bodies, forty thousand parishes, seven or eight millions of families, millions
of agricultural, industrial, and commercial establishments, hundreds of institutions of science
and art, thousands of educational and charitable institutions, benevolent and mutual-aid societies,
and others for business or for pleasure by tens and hundreds and thousands, in short, innumerable
associations of every kind, each with a purpose of its own, and, like a tool or a special organ,
carrying out a distinct work.

Now, each of these associations so far as it is a tool or an organ is subject to the same law;
the better it is in one direction, the more mediocre it is in other directions; its special
competency constitutes its general incompetence. This is why, among developed nations, no specialized
organization can replace another in a satisfactory manner. [2201] And the reason is that an
instrument, whatever it may be, a mechanical tool, or physiological
organ, or human association, is always a system of pieces whose effects
converge to a given end; it matters little whether the pieces are
bits of wood and metal, as in the tool, cells and fibers, as in the
organ, souls and understandings, as in the association; the essential
thing is the convergence of their effects; for the more convergent
these effects, the more efficient is the instrument in the realization
of its end.

But, through this convergence, it takes one direction exclusively and cannot take any other;
it cannot operate at once in two different senses; it cannot possibly turn to the right and
at the same time turn to the left. If any social instrument devised for a special service
is made to act additionally for another, it will perform its own
office badly as well the one it usurps.

Of the two works executed by it, the first injures the second and the second injures the first
one. The end, ordinarily, is the sacrifice of one to the other, and, most frequently, the failure
of both.

II. Abusive Government Intervention.

Application of this law to the public power.-- General effect of
its intervention.

Let us follow out the effects of this law when it is the public power
which, beyond its principal and peculiar task, undertakes a different
task and puts itself in the place of corporate bodies to do their
work; when the State, not content with protecting the community and
individuals against external or internal oppression, takes upon itself
additionally the government of churches, education, or charity, the
direction of art, science, and of commercial, agricultural, municipal,
or domestic affairs.-- Undoubtedly, it can intervene in all corporate
bodies other than itself; it has both the right and the duty to interfere;
it is bound to do this through its very office as defender of persons
and property, to repress in these bodies spoliation and oppression,
to compel in them the observance of the primordial statute, charter,
or contract, to maintain in the them rights of each member fixed by
this statute, to decide according to this statute all conflicts which
may arise between administrators and the administrated, between directors
and stockholders, between pastors and parishioners, between deceased
founders and their living successors.

In doing this, it affords them its tribunals, its constables, and its gendarmes, and it affords
these to them only with full consent after having looking into and accepted the statute. This,
too, is one of the obligations of its office: its mandate hinders it from placing the public power
at the service of despoiling and oppressive enterprises; it is interdicted from authorizing a
contract for prostitution or slavery, and above all, for the best of reasons, a society for
brigandage and insurrections, an armed league, or ready to arm itself, against the community,
or a part of the community, or against itself.-- But, between this legitimate intervention which
enables it to maintain rights, and the abusive interference by which
it usurps rights, the limit is visible and it oversteps this limit
when, to its function of justiciary, it adds a second, that of governing
or supporting another corporation.

In this case two series of abuses unfold themselves; on the one side,
the State acts contrary to its primary office, and, on the other,
it discharges the duties of its superadded office badly.

[2202] III.

The State attacks persons and property.

It acts against its function. Its encroachments are attacks on persons
and property.

For, in the first place, to govern another corporate body, for example the Church, the State
at one time appoints its ecclesiastical heads, as under the old monarchy after the abolition
of the Pragmatic Sanction by the Concordat of 1516; at another, as with the Constituent Assembly
in 1791, without appointing its heads, it invents a new mode of appointment by imposing on the
Church a discipline contrary to its spirit and even to its dogmas. Sometimes it goes further still
and reduces a special body into a mere administrative branch, transforming its heads into revocable
functionaries whose acts it orders and directs; such under the Empire
as well as under the Restoration, were the mayor and common-councilors
in a commune, and the professors and head-masters of the University.

One step more and the invasion is complete: naturally, either through ambition or precaution,
or through theory or prejudice, on undertaking a new service it is
tempted to reserve to itself or delegate its monopoly.

Before 1789 there existed one of these monopolies to the advantage
of the Catholic Church, through the interdiction of other cults, also
another to the advantage of each corporation of "Arts et Métiers,"
through the interdiction of free labor; after 1800, there existed
one for the benefit of the University through all sorts of shackles
and constraints imposed on the establishment and maintenance of private
schools.-- Now, through each of these constraints the State encroaches
on the domain of the individual; the more extended its encroachments
the more does it prey upon and reduce the circle of spontaneous initiation
and of independent action, which constitute the true life of the individual;
if, in conformity with the Jacobin program, it pushes its interference
to the end, it absorbs in itself all other lives; [2203] henceforth,
the community consists only of automata maneuvered from above, infinitely
small residues of men, passive, mutilated, and, so to say, dead souls;
the State, instituted to preserve persons, has reduced them to nonentities.

The effect is the same with property when the State supports other
organizations than its own.

For, to maintain these, it has no other funds than those of the taxpayers; consequently, using
its collectors, it takes the money out of their pockets; all, indiscriminately,
willingly or not, pay supplementary taxes for supplementary services,
whether this service benefits them or is repugnant to them. If I am
a Protestant in a Catholic State, or a Catholic in a Protestant State,
I pay for religion which seems wrong to me and for a Church which
seems to me mischievous.

If I am a skeptic, a free-thinker, indifferent or hostile to positive religions in France, I pay
to-day for the support of four cults which I regard as useless or pernicious. If I am a provincial
or a peasant, I pay for maintaining an "Opéra" which I never attend and for a "Sèvres" and "Gobelins"
of which I never see a vase or a piece of tapestry.-- In times of tranquility the extortion is covered
up, but in troubled times it is nakedly apparent. Under the revolutionary
government, bands of collectors armed with pikes made raids on villages
as in conquered countries; [2204] the farmer, collared and kept down
by blows from the butt end of a musket, sees his grain taken from
his barn and his cattle from their stable; "all scampered off on the
road to the town;" while around Paris, within a radius of forty leagues,
the departments fasted in order that the capital might be fed.

With gentler formalities, under a regular government, a similar extortion occurs when the State,
employing a respectable collector in uniform, takes from our purse a crown too much for an office
outside of its competency. If, as with the Jacobin State, it claims
all offices, it empties the purse entirely; instituted for the conservation
of property, it confiscates the whole of it.-- Thus, with property,
as with persons, when the state proposes to itself another purpose
than the preservation of these, not only does it overstep its mandate
but it acts contrary to its mandate.

IV. Abuse of State powers. It badly fills the office of the bodies it supplant.-- Cases in which
it usurps their powers and refuses to be their substitute.-- Cases in which it violates or profits by their
mechanism.-- In all cases it is bad or mediocre substitute.-- Reasons derived from its structure
compared with that of other bodies. Let us consider the other series of abuses, and the way in which
the State performs the service of the corporate bodies it supplants. In the first place there is a
chance that, sooner or later, it will shirk this work, for this new
service is more or less costly, and, sooner or later, it seems too
costly.-- Undoubtedly the State has promised to defray expenses; sometimes
even, like the Constituent and Legislative assemblies, the revenues
for this having been confiscated, it has to furnish an equivalent;
it is bound by contract to make good the local or special sources
of revenue which it has appropriated or dried up, to furnish in exchange
a supply of water from the grand central reservoir, the public treasury.--
But if water becomes low in this reservoir, if the taxes in arrears
stop the regular supply, if a war happens to open a large breach in
it, if the prodigality and incapacity of the rulers, multiply its
fissures and leaks, then there is no money on hand for accessory and
secondary services.

The State, which has adopted this service drops it: we have seen
under the Convention and the Directory how, having taken the property
of all corporations, provinces, and communes, of institutions of education,
art, and science, of churches, hospitals, and asylums, it performed
their functions; how, after having been a despoiler and a robber,
it became insolvent and bankrupt; how its usurpation and bankruptcy
ruined and then destroyed all other services; how, through the double
effect of its intervention and desertion, it annihilated in France
education, worship, and charity; why the streets in the towns were
no longer lighted nor swept; why, in the provinces, roads went to
decay, and dikes crumbled; why schools and churches stood empty or
were closed; why, in the asylum and in the hospital, foundlings died
for lack of milk, the infirm for lack of clothing and food, and the
sick for lack of broth, medicines, and beds.

[2205] In the second place, even when the State respects a service or provides the means for it,
there is a chance that it will pervert this simply because it comes under its direction.-- When
rulers lay their hands on an institution it is almost always for the purpose of making something
out of it for their own advantage and to its detriment: they render
everything subordinate to their interests or theories, they put some
essential piece or wheel out of shape or place; they derange its action
and put the mechanism out of order; they make use of it as a fiscal,
electoral, or doctrinal engine, as a reigning or sectarian instrument.--
Such, in the eighteenth century, was the ecclesiastical staff with
which we are familiar, [2206] court bishops, drawing-room abbés imposed
from above on their diocese or their abbey, non-residents, charged
with functions which they do not fulfill, largely-paid idlers, parasites
of the Church, and, besides all this, worldly, gallant, often unbelievers,
strange leaders of a Christian clergy and which, one would say, were
expressly selected to undermine Catholic faith in the minds of their
flocks, or monastic discipline in their convents.-- Such, in 1791,
[2207] is the new constitutional clergy, schismatic, excommunicated,
interlopers, imposed on the orthodox majority to say masses which
they deem sacrilegious and to administer sacraments which they refuse
to accept.

In the last place, even when the rulers do not subordinate the interests of the institution to
their passions, to their theories, or to their own interests, even
when they avoid mutilating it and changing its nature, even when they
loyally fulfill, as well as they know how, the supererogatory (distributive)
mandate which they have adjudged to themselves, they infallibly fulfill
it badly, at least worse than the special and spontaneous bodies for
which they substitute themselves, for the structure of these bodies
and the structure of the state are different.-- Unique of its kind,
alone wielding the sword, acting from above and afar by authority
and constraints, the State acts over the entire territory through
uniform laws, through imperative and minute regulations, by a hierarchy
of obedient functionaries, which it maintains under strict instructions.

Hence, it is not adapted to business which, to be well done, needs springs and processes of another
species. Its springs, wholly exterior, are insufficient, too weak
to support and push undertakings which require an internal motor like
private interest, local patriotism, family affections, scientific curiosity,
charitable instincts, and religious faith. Its wholly mechanical processes,
too rigid and too limited, cannot urge on enterprises which demand
of whoever undertakes them delicate and safe handling, supple manipulation,
appreciation of circumstances, ready adaptation of means to ends, constant contrivance,
the initiative, and perfect independence. On this account the State
is a poor head of a family, a poor commercial or agricultural leader,
a bad distributor of labor and of subsistence, a bad regulator of production,
exchanges, and consumption, a mediocre administrator of the province
and the commune, an undiscerning philanthropist, an incompetent director
of the fine arts, of science, of instruction, and of worship.

[2208] In all these offices its action is either dilatory or bungling, according to routine or
oppressive, always expensive, of little effect and feeble in returns, and always beyond or apart from
the real wants it pretends to satisfy. The reason is that it starts from too high a point therefore
extending over too vast a field. Transmitted by hierarchical procedures, it lags along in
formalism, and loses itself in "red-tape." On attaining its end and object it applies the same
program to all territories alike a program devised beforehand in the Cabinet, all of a piece,
without experimental groping and the necessary corrections;* a program which, calculated approximately
according to the average and the customary, is not exactly suited
to any particular case;* a program which imposes its fixed uniformity
on things instead of adjusting itself to its diversity and change;*
a sort of model coat, obligatory in pattern and stuff, which the
government dispatches by thousands from the center to the provinces,
to be worn, willingly or not, by figures of all sizes and at all
seasons.

V.
Final Results of Abusive Government Intervention Other consequences.--
Suppressed or stunted bodies cease to grow.-- Individuals become socially
and politically incapable.-- The hands into which public power then
falls.-- Impoverishment and degradation of the social body. And much worse.
Not only does the State do the work badly on a domain not its own,
roughly, at greater cost, and with smaller yield than spontaneous organizations,
but, again, through the legal monopoly which it deems its prerogative,
or through its unfair competition, it kills and paralyzes these natural
organizations or prevents their birth; and hence so many precious organs, which,
absorbed, curbed or abandoned, are lost to the great social body.--
And still worse, if this system lasts, and continues to crush them out,
the human community loses the faculty of reproducing them; entirely
extirpated, they do not grow again; even their germ has perished. Individuals
no longer know how to form associations, how to co-operate under their own
impulses, through their own initiative, free of outside and superior
constraint, all together and for a long time in view of a definite purpose,
according to regular forms under freely-chosen chiefs, frankly accepted
and faithfully followed. Mutual confidence, respect for the law, loyalty,
voluntary subordination, foresight, moderation, patience, perseverance, practical
good sense, every disposition of head and heart, with which no association
of any kind is efficacious or even viable, have died out for lack
of exercise.

Henceforth spontaneous, pacific, and fruitful co-operation, as practiced by a free people, is
unattainable; men have arrived at social incapacity and, consequently,
at political incapacity.-- In fact they no longer choose their own constitution
or their own rulers; they put with these, willingly or not, according as accident
or usurpation furnishes them: now the public power belongs to the man,
the faction, or the party sufficiently unscrupulous, sufficiently daring,
sufficiently violent, to seize and hold on to it by force, to make
the most of it as an egotist or charlatan, aided by parades and prestige,
along with bravura songs and the usual din of ready-made phrases
on the rights of Man and the public salvation.-- This central power
itself has in its hands no body who might give it an impetus and inspiration,
it rules only over an impoverished, inert, or languid social body,
solely capable of intermittent spasms or of artificial rigidity according
to order, an organism deprived of its secondary organs, simplified
to excess, of an inferior or degraded kind, a people no longer anything
but an arithmetical sum of separate, unconnected units, in brief,
human dust or mud.-- This is what the interference of the State leads
to.

There are laws in the social and moral world as in the physiological and physical world; we
may misunderstand them, but we cannot elude them; they operate now
against us, now for us, as we please, but always alike and without
heeding us; it is for us to heed them; for the two conditions they
couple together are inseparable; the moment the first appears the
second inevitably follows.***** [Footnote 2201: Macaulay, "Essays:
Gladstone on Church and State."-- This principle, of capital importance
and of remarkable fecundity, may be called the principle of specialties.

Adam Smith fist applied it to machines and to workmen. Macaulay extended it to human associations.
Milne-Edwards applied it to the entire series of animal organs. Herbert Spencer largely develops
it in connection with physiological organs and human societies in his "Principles of Biology" and
"Principles of Sociology." I have attempted here to show the three parallel branches of its consequences,
and, again, their common root, a constitutive and primordial property inherent in every instrumentality.]
[Footnote 2202: Cf. "The Revolution," III., book VI., ch. 2 The encroachments of the State and their
effect on individuals is there treated. Here, the question is their effects on corporations. Read,
on the same subject, "Gladstone on Church and State," by Macaulay, and "The Man versus the State,"
by Herbert Spencer, two essays in which the close reasoning and abundance of illustrations are
admirable.] [Footnote 2203: "The Revolution," III, 346. (Laffont II. p 258.)] [Footnote 2204: Ibid.,
III. 284 Laff. 213.] [Footnote 2205: "The Revolution," III., 353,
416. (Laffont II. notes pp 262 and 305 to 308.)] [Footnote 2206: "The
Ancient Régime," 64, 65, 76, 77, 120, 121, 292.

(Laffont I. pp. 52-53, 60-61, 92 to 94, 218 to 219.)] [Footnote 2207: "The Revolution," I., 177
and following pages. (Laffont I, pp. 438 to 445.)] [Footnote 2208:
The essays of Herbert Spencer furnish examples for England under
the title of "Over-legislation and Representative government."

Examples for France may be found in "Liberté du Travail," by Charles
Dunoyer (1845). This work anticipates most of the ideas of Herbert
Spencer, lacking only the physiological "illustrations."] CHAPTER
III.

THE
NEW GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION. I. Precedents of the new organization.
Precedents of the new organization.-- In practical operation.-- Anterior
usurpations of the public power.-- Spontaneous bodies under the Ancient
Regime and during the Revolution.-- Ruin and discredit of their supports.--
The central power their sole surviving dependence.

Unfortunately,
in France at the end of the eighteenth century the bent was taken
and the wrong bent.

For three centuries and
more the public power had increasingly violated and discredited spontaneous
bodies: Sometimes it had mutilated them and decapitated them; for
example, it had suppressed provincial governments (états) over three-quarters
of the territory, in all the electoral districts; nothing remained
of the old province but its name and an administrative circumscription.

  

  
  Sometimes, without mutilating the corporate body it
  
  had upset and deformed it, or dislocated and disjointed
  it.-- So that in the towns, through changes made in old
  democratic constitutions, through restrictions put upon electoral
  rights and repeated sales of municipal offices, [2301] it had handed
over municipal authority to a narrow oligarchy of bourgeois families,
privileged at the expense of the taxpayer, half separated from the
main body of the public, disliked by the lower classes, and no longer
supported by the confidence or deference of the community. If he is beginning to feel in
  one of his old cross moods, he says that Emilie's face, or
  Emilie's voice disperses it all, and well it may; Emilie
  has sweetened sourer tempers than Joe White's.

  But now comes a sorrowful part of my letter. Joe is
  very unwell, he has a cough, (he was never strong you
  know,) and the doctor says he is very much afraid his
  lungs are diseased. He certainly gets thinner and
  weaker, and he said to me to-day what I must tell you.
  He spoke of his longings to travel (to go to Australia was
  always his fancy.) "And now, Fred," he said, "I never
  think of going there, I am thinking of a longer journey
  still." "A longer journey, Joe!" I said, "Well, you have
  got the travelling mania on you yet, I see." He looked
  so sad, that I said, "What do you mean Joe?" He
  replied, "Fred, I think nothing of journeys and voyages
  in this world now. I am thinking of a pilgrimage to the
  land where all our wandering's will have an end. I
  longed, oh Fred, you know how I longed to go to foreign
  lands, but I long now as I never longed before to go to
  Heaven." I begged him not to talk of dying, but he said
  it did not make him low spirited. Emilie and he talked
  of it often. Ah Edith! that boy is more fit for heaven
  than any of us who a year or two ago thought him
  scarcely fit to be our companion, but as Emilie said the
  other day, God often causes the very afflictions that he
  sends to become his choicest mercies. So it has been
  with poor White, I am sure. I find I have nearly filled
  my letter about Joe, but we all think a great deal of him.
  Don't you remember Emilie's saying, "I would try to
  make him lovable." He is lovable now, I assure you.

  I am sorry our canaries quarrel, but that is no fault of
  yours. We have only two school-fellows at present, but
  Herr Franks does not wish for a large school; he says he
  likes to be always with us, and to be our companion, which
  if there were more of us he could not so well manage. We
  have one trouble, and that is in the temper of this newly
  arrived German boy, but we are going to try and make
  him lovable. He is a good way off it yet.

  I must leave John to tell you about the many things I
  have forgotten, and I will write soon. We have a cat
  here whom we call Muff, after your old pet. Her name
  often reminds me of your sacrifice for me. Ah! my dear
  little sister, you heaped coals of fire on my head that day.
  Truly you were not overcome of evil, you overcame evil
  with good. Dear love to all at home. Your ever affectionate
  brother,

  FRED PARKER.

CHAPTER FOURTEENTH.

THE LAST.

"Hush, dears! hush!" said a gentle voice, pointing to a shaded window. "He is asleep now, and
we must have the window open for air this sultry evening. I would not rake that bed to-night,
John, I think."

"It is his garden, Emilie."

"Yes, I know"--and she sighed.--

"It is his garden, and his eye always sees the least weed and the least untidiness. He will
be sure to notice it when he is drawn out to-morrow."

"John there may be no to-morrow for Joe, he is altered very much to-day, and it is evident
to me he is sinking fast. He won't come down again, I think."

"May I go and sit by him, Emilie?" said the boy, quietly gathering up his tools and preparing
to leave his employment.

"Yes, but be very still."

It was a striking contrast; that fine, florid, healthy boy, whose frame was gaining vigour
and manliness daily, whose blight eye had scarcely ever been dimmed by illness or pain, and
that pale, deformed, weary sleeper. So Emilie thought as she took her seat by the open window
and watched them both. The roses and the carnations that John had brought to his friend were
quietly laid on the table as he caught the first glimpse of the dying boy. There was that in
the action which convinced Emilie that John was aware of his friend's state and they quietly
sat down to watch him. The stars came out one by one, the dew was falling, the birds were all
hurrying home, children were asleep in their happy beds; many glad voices mingled by open casements
and social supper tables, some few lingered out of doors to enjoy the beauties of that quiet
August night, the last on earth of one, at least, of God's creatures. They watched on.

"I have been asleep, Emilie, a beautiful sleep, I was dreaming of my mother; I awoke, and it
was you. John, you there too! Good, patient, watchful John. Leave me a moment, quite alone
with John, will you, Emilie? Moments are a great deal to me now."

The friends were left alone, their talk was of death and eternity, on the solemn realities
of which one of them was about to enter, and carefully as John had shielded Joe, tenderly as
he had watched over him hitherto, he must now leave him to pass the stream alone--yet not alone. 

The quantity of facts he is able to retain and store away, the quantity of ideas he elaborates
and produces, seems to surpass human capacity, and this insatiable, inexhaustible, unmovable
brain thus keeps on working uninterruptedly for thirty years.

Through another result of the same mental organization, Napoleon's brain is never unproductive;
that's today our great danger.-- During the past three hundred years
we have more and more lost sight of the exact and direct meaning of
things.

       Subject to the constraints of a conservative, complex, and extended
educational system we study* the symbols of objects rather than on
the objects themselves;* instead of the ground itself, a map of it;*
instead of animals struggling for existence, [1151] nomenclatures
and classifications, or, at best, stuffed specimens displayed in a
museum;* instead of persons who feel and act, statistics, codes, histories,
literatures, and philosophies; in short, printed words.

Even worse, abstract terms, which from
century to century have become more abstract and therefore further
removed from experience, more difficult to understand, less adaptable
and more deceptive, especially in all that relates to human life and
society.

Here, due to the growth of government,
to the multiplication of services, to the entanglement of interests,
the object, indefinitely enlarged and complex, now eludes our grasp.

Our vague, incomplete, incorrect idea of it badly corresponds with
it, or does not correspond at all. In nine minds out of ten, or perhaps
ninety-nine out of a hundred, it is but little more than a word.

The others, if they desire some significant indication of
what society actually is beyond the teachings of books, require ten
or fifteen years of close observation and study to re-think the phrases
with which these have filled their memory, to interpret them anew,
to make clear their meaning, to get at and verify their sense, to
substitute for the more or less empty and indefinite term the fullness
and precision of a personal impression.

We have seen how ideas of Society, State, Government, Sovereignty,
Rights, Liberty, the most important of all ideas, were, at the close
of the eighteenth century, curtailed and falsified; how, in most minds,
simple verbal reasoning combined them together in dogmas and axioms;
what an offspring these metaphysical simulacra gave birth to, how
many lifeless and grotesque abortions, how many monstrous and destructive
chimeras.

There is no place for any of these fanciful dreams in the mind of Bonaparte;
they cannot arise in it, nor find access to it; his aversion to the
unsubstantial phantoms of political abstraction extends beyond disdain,
even to disgust.

[1152] That which was then called ideology, is his particular bugbear; he
loathes it not alone through calculation, but still more through an
instinctive demand for what is real, as a practical man and statesman,
always keeping in mind, like the great Catherine, "that he is operating,
not on paper, but on the human hide, which is ticklish."

Every idea entertained by him had its origin in his personal observation,
and he used his own personal observations to control them.

If books are useful to him it is to suggest questions, which he never
answers but through his own experience.

       He has read only a little, and hastily; [1153] his classical education
is rudimentary; in the way of Latin, he remained in the lower class.
The instruction he got at the Military Academy as well as at Brienne
was below mediocrity, while, after Brienne, it is stated that "for the
languages and belles-lettres, he had no taste." Next to this, the literature
of elegance and refinement, the philosophy of the closet and drawing-room,
with which his contemporaries are imbued, glided over his intellect
as over a hard rock.

None but mathematical truths and positive notions about geography and history found their way
into his mind and deeply impressed it. Everything else, as with his predecessors
of the fifteenth century, comes to him through the original, direct
action of his faculties in contact with men and things, through his
prompt and sure tact, his indefatigable and minute attention, his indefinitely
repeated and rectified divinations during long hours of solitude
and silence.

Practice, and not speculation, is the source of his instruction,
the same as with a mechanic brought up amongst machinery. "There is nothing
relating to warfare that I cannot make myself. If nobody knows how to
make gunpowder, I do. I can construct gun-carriages. If cannon must
be cast, I will see that it is done properly. If tactical details must
be taught, I will teach them." [1154] This is why he is competent
right from the beginning, general in the artillery, major-general, diplomatist,
financier and administrator of all kinds. Thanks to this fertile apprenticeship,
beginning with the Consulate, he shows officials and veteran ministers
who send in their reports to him what to do.

"I am a more experienced administrator than they, [1155] when one has been obliged to extract
from his brains the ways and means with which to feed, maintain,
control, and move with the same spirit and will two or three hundred
thousand men, a long distance from their country, one has soon discovered
the secrets of administration."

In each of the human machines he builds and manipulates, he perceives right away all the parts, each
in its proper place and function, the motors, the transmissions,
the wheels, the composite action, the speed which ensues, the final
result, the complete effect, the net product.

Never is he content with a superficial and summary inspection; he penetrates into obscure corners
and to the lowest depths "through the technical precision of his questions," with the lucidity
of a specialist, and in this way, borrowing an expression from the philosophers, with him the concept
should be adequate to its purpose.

[1156] Hence his eagerness for details, for these form the body and substance of the concept; the hand
that has not grasped these, or lets them go, retains only the shell,
an envelope.

With respect to these his curiosity is "insatiable." [1157] In each ministerial department
he knows more than the ministers, and in each bureau he knows as
much as the clerks.

"On his table [1158] lie reports of the positions of his forces on land and on water. He has
furnished the plans of these, and fresh ones are issued every month";
such is the daily reading he likes best. "I have my reports on positions
always at hand; my memory for an Alexandrine is not good, but I never
forget a syllable of my reports on positions.

I shall find them in my room this evening, and I shall not go to bed until I have read them." He always
knows "his position" on land and at sea better than is known in the
War and Navy departments; better even than his staff-officers the
number, size, and qualities of his ships in or out of port, the present
and future state of vessels under construction, the composition and
strength of their crews, the formation, organization, staff of officers,
material, stations, and enlistments, past and to come, of each army
corps and of each regiment.

It is the same in the financial and diplomatic services, in every branch of the administration,
laic or ecclesiastical, in the physical order and in the moral order.

His topographical memory and his geographical conception of countries,
places, ground, and obstacles culminate in an inward vision which
he evokes at will, and which, years afterwards, revives as fresh as
on the first day.

His calculation of distances, marches, and maneuvers is so rigid
a mathematical operation that, frequently, at a distance of two or
four hundred leagues, [1159] his military foresight, calculated two
or four months ahead, turns out correct, almost on the day named,
and precisely on the spot designated.

[1160] Add to this one other faculty, and the rarest of all. For, if
things turn out as he foresaw they would, it is because, as with great
chess-players, he has accurately measured not alone the mechanical
moves of the pieces, but the character and talent of his adversary,
"sounded his draft of water," and divined his probable mistakes.

He has added the calculation of physical quantities and probabilities
to the calculation of moral quantities and probabilities, thus showing
himself as great a psychologist as he is an accomplished strategist.

In fact, no one has surpassed him in the art of judging the condition
and motives of an individual or of a group of people, the real motives,
permanent or temporary, which drive or curb men in general or this
or that man in particular, the incentives to be employed, the kind and
degree of pressure to be employed.

This central faculty rules all the others, and in the art of mastering Man his genius is found
supreme. III. His acute Understanding of Others. His psychological faculty
and way of getting at the thought and feeling of others.-- His self-analysis.--
How he imagines a general situation by selecting a particular case,
imagining the invisible interior by deducting from the visible exterior.--
Originality and superiority of his style and discourse.-- His adaptation
of these to his hearers and to circumstances.-- His notation and calculation
of serviceable motives.

       No faculty is more precious for a political engineer; for the forces
he acts upon are never other than human passions. But how, except
through divination, can these passions, which grow out of the deepest
sentiments, be reached? How, save by conjecture, can forces be estimated which
seem to defy all measurement?

On this
dark and uncertain ground, where one has to grope one's way, Napoleon
moves with almost absolute certainty; he moves promptly. First of
all, he studies himself; indeed, to find one's way into another's
soul requires, preliminarily, that one should dive deep into one's
own.

[1161] "I have always delighted in analysis," said he, one day, "and
should I ever fall seriously in love I would take my sentiment to pieces.
Why and How are such important questions one cannot put them to one's
self too often."

"It is certain," writes an observer, "that he, of all men, is the
one who has most meditated on the why which controls human actions."

His method, that of the experimental sciences, consists in testing every
hypothesis or deduction by some positive fact, observed by him under
definite conditions; a physical force being ascertained and accurately
measured through the deviation of a needle, or through the rise and
fall of a fluid, this or that invisible moral force can likewise be
ascertained and approximately measured through some emotional sign,
some decisive manifestation, consisting of a certain word, tone, or
gesture.

It is these words, tones, and gestures which he dwells on; he detects inward sentiments by the
outward expression; he figures to himself the internal by the external,
by some facial appearance, some telling attitude, some brief and topical
scene, by such specimen and shortcuts, so well chosen and detailed
that they provide a summary of the innumerable series of analogous
cases.

In this way, the vague, fleeting object is suddenly arrested, brought
to bear, and then gauged and weighed, like some impalpable gas collected
and kept in a graduated transparent glass tube.-- Accordingly, at
the Council of State, while the others, either jurists or administrators,
see abstractions, articles of the law and precedents, he sees people
as they are-- the Frenchman, the Italian, the German; that of the
peasant, the workman, the bourgeois, the noble, the returned émigré,
[1162] the soldier, the officer and the functionary-- everywhere the
individual man as he is, the man who plows, manufactures, fights,
marries, brings forth children, toils, enjoys himself, and dies.--
Nothing is more striking than the contrast between the dull, grave
arguments advanced by the wise official editor, and Napoleon's own
words caught on the wing, at the moment, vibrating and teeming with
illustrations and imagery.

[1163] Apropos of divorce, the principle of which he wishes to maintain:
"Consult, now, national manners and customs. Adultery is no phenomenon;
it is common enough-- une affaire de canapé... There must be some curb
on women who commit adultery for trinkets, poetry, Apollo, and the muses,
etc." But if divorce be allowed for incompatibility of temper you
undermine marriage; the fragility of the bond will be apparent the
moment the obligation is contracted; "it is just as if a man said
to himself,'I am going to marry until I feel different.'"

Nullity of marriage must not be too often allowed; once a marriage is made it is a serious matter to undo
it. "Suppose that, in marrying my cousin just arrived from the Indies,
I wed an adventuress.

She bears me children, and I then discover she is not my cousin-- is that marriage valid? Does not public
morality demand that it should be so considered? There has been a mutual exchange of hearts, of
transpiration."

       On the right of children to be supported and fed although of age,
he says: "Will you allow a father to drive a girl of fifteen out of
his house? A father worth 60,000 francs a year might say to his son,'You
are stout and fat; go and turn plowman.'The children of a rich father,
or of one in good circumstances, are always entitled to the paternal
porridge.

Strike out their right to be fed, and you compel children to murder their parents." As to adoption:
"You regard this as law-makers and not as statesmen. It is not a
civil contract nor a judicial contract. The analysis (of the jurist)
leads to vicious results.

Man is governed by imagination only; without imagination he is a brute.
It is not for five cents a day, simply to distinguish himself, that a
man consents to be killed; if you want to electrify him touch his
heart.

       A notary, who is paid a fee of twelve francs for his services, cannot
do that. It requires some other process, a legislative act. Adoption, what
is that? An imitation by which society tries to counterfeit nature.
It is a new kind of sacrament.... Society ordains that the bones and
blood of one being shall be changed into the bones and blood of another.

It is the greatest of all legal acts. It gives the sentiments of a son
to one who never had them, and reciprocally those of a parent.

       Where ought this to originate?

From on high, like a clap of thunder!" All his expressions are bright flashes
one after another. [1164] Nobody, since Voltaire and Galiani, has launched
forth such a profusion of them; on society, laws, government, France
and the French, some penetrate and explain, like those of Montesquieu,
as if with a flash of lightening. He does not hammer them out laboriously,
but they burst forth, the outpourings of his intellect, its natural,
involuntary, constant action.

And what adds to their value is that, outside of councils and private
conversations, he abstains from them, employing them only in the
service of thought; at other times he subordinates them to the end
he has in view, which is always their practical effect.

       Ordinarily, he writes and speaks in a different language, in a language
suited to his audience; he dispenses with the oddities, the irregular
improvisations and imagination, the outbursts of genius and inspiration.

He retains and uses merely those which are intended to impress the personage
whom he wishes to dazzle with a great idea of himself, such as Pius
VII., or the Emperor Alexander.

In this case, his conversational tone is that of a caressing, expansive,
amiable familiarity; he is then before the footlights, and when he
acts he can play all parts, tragedy or comedy, with the same life
and spirit whether he fulminates, insinuates, or even affects simplicity.

When he is with his generals, ministers, and principal performers,
he falls back on the concise, positive, technical business style;
any other would be harmful.

The keen mind only reveals itself through the
brevity and imperious strength and rudeness of the accent. For his
armies and the common run of men, he has his proclamations and bulletins,
that is to say, sonorous phrases composed for effect, a statement
of facts purposely simplified and falsified, [1165] in short, an excellent
effervescent wine, good for exciting enthusiasm, and an equally excellent
narcotic for maintaining credulity, [1166] a sort of popular mixture
to be distributed just at the proper time, and whose ingredients are
so well proportioned that the public drinks it with delight, and becomes
at once intoxicated.-- His style on every occasion, whether affected
or spontaneous, shows his wonderful knowledge of the masses and of
individuals; except in two or three cases, on one exalted domain,
of which he always remains ignorant, he has ever hit the mark, applying
the appropriate lever, giving just the push, weight, and degree of
impulsion which best accomplishes his purpose.

A series of brief, accurate memoranda, corrected daily, enables him to
frame for himself a sort of psychological tablet whereon he notes
down and sums up, in almost numerical valuation, the mental and moral
dispositions, characters, faculties, passions, and aptitudes, the
strong or weak points, of the innumerable human beings, near or remote,
on whom he operates.

       

IV. His Wonderful Memory. His Three Atlases.-- Their scale and completeness.
Let us try for a moment to show the range and contents of this intellect;
we may have to go back to Caesar to his equal; but, for lack of documents,
we have nothing of Caesar but general features-- a summary outline.

Of Napoleon we have, besides the perfect outline, the features in
detail. Read his correspondence, day by day, then chapter by chapter;
[1167] for example, in 1806, after the battle of Austerlitz, or,
still better, in 1809, after his return from Spain, up to the peace
of Vienna; whatever our technical shortcomings may be, we shall find
that his mind, in its comprehensiveness and amplitude, largely surpasses
all known or even credible proportions. He has mentally within him three
principal atlases, always at hand, each composed of "about twenty
note-books," each distinct and each regularly posted up.-- 1.

The first one is military, forming a vast collection of topographical charts as minute as those
of an general staff, with detailed plans of every stronghold, also specific indications and the local
distribution of all forces on sea and on land-- crews, regiments, batteries, arsenals, storehouses,
present and future resources in supplies of men, horses, vehicles, arms, munitions, food, and
clothing. 2. The second, which is civil, resembles the heavy, thick volumes
published every year, in which we now read the state of the budget, and
comprehend, first, the innumerable items of ordinary and extraordinary
receipt and expenditure, internal taxes, foreign contributions, the products
of the domains in France and out of France, the fiscal services, pensions,
public works, and the rest; next, all administrative statistics, the hierarchy
of functions and of functionaries, senators, deputies, ministers,
prefects, bishops, professors, judges, and those under their orders, each
where he resides, with his rank, jurisdiction, and salary. 3. The third
is a vast biographical and moral dictionary, in which, as in the
pigeon-holes of the Chief of Police, each notable personage and local
group, each professional or social body, and even each population,
has its label, along with a brief note on its situation, needs, and
antecedents, and, therefore, its demonstrated character, eventual disposition,
and probable conduct.

Each label, card, or strip of paper has its summary; all these partial
summaries, methodically classified, terminate in totals, and the totals
of the three atlases, combined together, thus furnish their possessor
with an estimate of his disposable forces.

       Now, in 1809, however full these atlases, they are clearly imprinted on
Napoleon's mind he knows not only the total and the partial summaries,
but also the slightest details; he reads them readily and at every
hour; he comprehends in a mass, and in all particulars, the various
nations he governs directly, or through some one else; that is to
say, 60,000,000 men, the different countries he has conquered or overrun,
consisting of 70,000 square leagues [1168].

At first, France increased by the addition of Belgium and Piedmont; next
Spain, from which he is just returned, and where he has placed his
brother Joseph; southern Italy, where, after Joseph, he has placed
Murat; central Italy, where he occupies Rome; northern Italy, where
Eugène is his delegate; Dalmatia and Istria, which he has joined to
his empire; Austria, which he invades for the second time; the Confederation
of the Rhine, which he has made and which he directs; Westphalia and
Holland, where his brothers are only his lieutenants; Prussia, which
he has subdued and mutilated and which he oppresses, and the strongholds
of which he still retains; and, add a last mental tableau, that which
represents the northern seas, the Atlantic and the Mediterranean,
all the fleets of the continent at sea and in port from Dantzic to
Flessingen and Bayonne, from Cadiz to Toulon and Gaëta, from Tarentum
to Venice, Corfu, and Constantinople.

[1169]-- On the psychological and moral
atlas, besides a primitive gap which he will never fill up, because
this is a characteristic trait, there are some estimates which are
wrong, especially with regard to the Pope and to Catholic conscience.

       

In like manner he rates the energy of national sentiment in Spain
and Germany too low.

       

       He rates too high his own prestige in France and in the countries
annexed to her, the balance of confidence and zeal on which he may
rely.

But these errors are rather the product of his will than of his intelligence,
he recognizes them at intervals; if he has illusions it is because
he fabricates them; left to himself his good sense would rest infallible,
it is only his passions which blurred the lucidity of his intellect.--
As to the other two atlases, the topographical and the military, they
are as complete and as exact as ever; No matter how much the realities
they contain will swell and daily become ever more complex, they continue
to correspond to it in their fullness and precision, trait for trait.

V. His Imagination and its Excesses.

His constructive imagination.-- His projects and dreams.-- Manifestation
of the master faculty and its excesses.

But this multitude of information and observations form only the
smallest portion of the mental population swarming in this immense
brain; for, on his idea of the real, germinate and swarm his concepts
of the possible; without these concepts there would be no way to handle
and transform things, and that he did handle and transform them we
all know.

Before acting, he has decided on his plan, and if this
plan is adopted, it is one among several others, [1170] after examining,
comparing, and giving it the preference; he has accordingly thought
over all the others.

       Behind each combination adopted by him we detect those he has rejected;
there are dozens of them behind each of his decisions, each maneuver
effected, each treaty signed, each decree promulgated, each order issued,
and I venture to say, behind almost every improvised action or word
spoken.

For calculation enters into everything he does, even into his apparent
expansiveness, also into his outbursts when in earnest; if he gives
way to these, it is on purpose, foreseeing the effect, with a view
to intimidate or to dazzle.

He turns everything in others as well as in himself to account--
his passion, his vehemence, his weaknesses, his talkativeness, he
exploits it all for the advancement of the edifice he is constructing.

[1171] Certainly among his diverse faculties, however great, that
of the constructive imagination is the most powerful.

At the very beginning we feel its heat and boiling intensity beneath
the coolness and rigidity of his technical and positive instructions.

"When I plan a battle," said he to Roederer, "no man is more spineless
than I am.

       I over exaggerate to myself all the dangers and all the evils that
are possible under the circumstances. That lady's earnestness and enthusiasm are of the right sort--felt for freedom
of thought and action, for taste, and for genius winging its flight in a noble direction. They
are displayed, oftentimes most naturally, throughout the attractive pages of this volume."--Observer.

"Mrs. Hall's talents are too well known to require our commendation of her 'Pilgrimages,' which
are every way worthy of the beautiful woodcuts that illustrate almost every page, and this
is very high praise indeed."--Standard.

"The illustrations are very effective; and the whole work externally and internally, is worthy
of the patronage of all who love to be instructed as well as amazed."--Church and State Gazette.

"The book is a pleasant one; a collection of a great deal of curious information about a number
of curious places and persons, cleverly and readily put together, and combined into an elegant
volume."--Guardian.

