To this the regent replied, "she hoped to be able to adopt such measures as would render it
impossible for disorders to ensue; but if, nevertheless, they did occur, she could ascribe
them to no one but the confederates.  She therefore earnestly admonished them on their part
to fulfil their engagements, but especially to receive no new members into the league, to hold
no more private assemblies, and generally not to attempt any novel and unconstitutional measures."
And in order to tranquillize their minds she commanded her private secretary, Berti, to show
them the letters to the inquisitors and secular judges, wherein they were enjoined to observe
moderation towards all those who had not aggravated their heretical offences by any civil crime.
Before their departure from Brussels they named four presidents from among their number who
were to take care of the affairs of the league, and also particular administrators for each
province.  A few were left behind in Brussels to keep a watchful eye on all the movements of
the court. Brederode, Kuilemberg, and Bergen at last quitted the town, attended by five hundred
and fifty horsemen, saluted it once more beyond the walls with a discharge of musketry, and
then the three leaders parted, Brederode taking the road to Antwerp, and the two others to
Guelders. The regent had sent off an express to Antwerp to warn the magistrate of that town
against him.  On his arrival more than a thousand persons thronged to the hotel where he had
taken up his abode.  Showing himself at a window, with a full wineglass in his hand, he thus
addressed them: "Citizens of Antwerp!  I am here at the hazard of my life and my property to
relieve you from the oppressive burden of the Inquisition. If you are ready to share this enterprise
with me, and to acknowledge me as your leader, accept the health which I here drink to you,
and hold up your hands in testimony of your approbation."  Hereupon he drank to their health,
and all hands were raised amidst clamorous shouts of exultation.  After this heroic deed he
quitted Antwerp.

Immediately after the delivery of the "petition of the nobles," the regent had caused a new
form of the edicts to be drawn up in the privy council, which should keep the mean between
the commands of the king and the demands of the confederates.  But the next question that arose
was to determine whether it would be advisable immediately to promulgate this mitigated form,
or moderation, as it was commonly called, or to submit it first to the king for his ratification.
The privy council who maintained that it would be presumptuous to take a step so important
and so contrary to the declared sentiments of the monarch without having first obtained his
sanction, opposed the vote of the Prince of Orange who supported the former proposition.  Besides,
they urged, there was cause to fear that it would not even content the nation.

