MY DEAR FATHER, - I have no hesitation in recommending you to let  your name go up; please
yourself about an address; though I think,  if we could meet, we could arrange something suitable.
What you  propose would be well enough in a way, but so modest as to suggest  a whine.  From
that point of view it would be better to change a  little; but this, whether we meet or not,
we must discuss.  Tait,  Chrystal, the Royal Society, and I, all think you amply deserve  this
honour and far more; it is not the True Blue to call this  serious compliment a 'trial'; you
should be glad of this  recognition.  As for resigning, that is easy enough if found  necessary;
but to refuse would be husky and unsatisfactory.  SIC  SUBS.

R. L. S.

My cold is still very heavy; but I carry it well.  Fanny is very  very much out of sorts, principally
through perpetual misery with  me.  I fear I have been a little in the dumps, which, AS YOU
KNOW,  SIR, is a very great sin.  I must try to be more cheerful; but my  cough is so severe
that I have sometimes most exhausting nights and  very peevish wakenings.  However, this shall
be remedied, and last  night I was distinctly better than the night before.  There is, my 
dear Mr. Stevenson (so I moralise blandly as we sit together on the  devil's garden-wall),
no more abominable sin than this gloom, this  plaguey peevishness; why (say I) what matters
it if we be a little  uncomfortable - that is no reason for mangling our unhappy wives.   And
then I turn and GIRN on the unfortunate Cassandra. - Your  fellow culprit,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

WENSLEYDALE, BOURNEMOUTH, NOVEMBER 1884.

DEAR HENLEY, - We are all to pieces in health, and heavily  handicapped with Arabs.  I have
a dreadful cough, whose attacks  leave me AETAT. 90.  I never let up on the Arabs, all the
same, and  rarely get less than eight pages out of hand, though hardly able to  come downstairs
for twittering knees.

I shall put in -'s letter.  He says so little of his circumstances  that I am in an impossibility
to give him advice more specific than  a copybook.  Give him my love, however, and tell him
it is the mark  of the parochial gentleman who has never travelled to find all  wrong in a
foreign land.  Let him hold on, and he will find one  country as good as another; and in the
meanwhile let him resist the  fatal British tendency to communicate his dissatisfaction with
a  country to its inhabitants.  'Tis a good idea, but it somehow fails  to please.  In a fortnight,
if I can keep my spirit in the box at  all, I should be nearly through this Arabian desert;
so can tackle  something fresh. - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

BONALLIE TOWERS, BRANKSOME PARK, BOURNEMOUTH (THE THREE B'S)  [NOVEMBER 5, 1884].

MY DEAR FATHER, - Allow me to say, in a strictly Pickwickian sense,  that you are a silly fellow.
I am pained indeed, but how should I  be offended?  I think you exaggerate; I cannot forget
that you had  the same impression of the DEACON; and yet, when you saw it played,  were less
revolted than you looked for; and I will still hope that  the ADMIRAL also is not so bad as
you suppose.  There is one point,  however, where I differ from you very frankly.  Religion
is in the  world; I do not think you are the man to deny the importance of its  role; and I
have long decided not to leave it on one side in art.   The opposition of the Admiral and Mr.
Pew is not, to my eyes,  either horrible or irreverent; but it may be, and it probably is,
very ill done:  what then?  This is a failure; better luck next  time; more power to the elbow,
more discretion, more wisdom in the  design, and the old defeat becomes the scene of the new
victory.   Concern yourself about no failure; they do not cost lives, as in  engineering; they
are the PIERRES PERDUES of successes.  Fame is  (truly) a vapour; do not think of it; if the
writer means well and  tries hard, no failure will injure him, whether with God or man.

I wish I could hear a brighter account of yourself; but I am  inclined to acquit the ADMIRAL
of having a share in the  responsibility.  My very heavy cold is, I hope, drawing off; and
the change to this charming house in the forest will, I hope,  complete my re-establishment.
- With love to all, believe me, your  ever affectionate,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

BONALLIE TOWERS, BRANKSOME PARK, BOURNEMOUTH, NOVEMBER 11, [1884].

MY DEAR CHARLES, - I am in my new house, thus proudly styled, as  you perceive; but the deevil
a tower ava' can be perceived (except  out of window); this is not as it should be; one might
have hoped,  at least, a turret.  We are all vilely unwell.  I put in the dark  watches imitating
a donkey with some success, but little pleasure;  and in the afternoon I indulge in a smart
fever, accompanied by  aches and shivers.  There is thus little monotony to be deplored.  
I at least am a REGULAR invalid; I would scorn to bray in the  afternoon; I would indignantly
refuse the proposal to fever in the  night.  What is bred in the bone will come out, sir, in
the flesh;  and the same spirit that prompted me to date my letter regulates  the hour and
character of my attacks. - I am, sir, yours,

THOMSON.

Letter:  TO CHARLES BAXTER

POSTMARK, BOURNEMOUTH, 13TH NOVEMBER 1884.

MY DEAR THOMSON, - It's a maist remarkable fac', but nae shuner had  I written yon braggin',
blawin' letter aboot ma business habits,  when bang! that very day, ma hoast begude in the
aifternune.  It is  really remaurkable; it's providenshle, I believe.  The ink wasnae  fair
dry, the words werenae weel ooten ma mouth, when bang, I got  the lee.  The mair ye think o't,
Thomson, the less ye'll like the  looks o't.  Proavidence (I'm no' sayin') is all verra weel
IN ITS  PLACE; but if Proavidence has nae mainners, wha's to learn't?   Proavidence is a fine
thing, but hoo would you like Proavidence to  keep your till for ye?  The richt place for Proavidence
is in the  kirk; it has naething to do wi' private correspondence between twa  gentlemen, nor
freendly cracks, nor a wee bit word of sculduddery  ahint the door, nor, in shoart, wi' ony
HOLE-AND-CORNER WARK, what  I would call.  I'm pairfec'ly willin' to meet in wi' Proavidence,
I'll be prood to meet in wi' him, when my time's come and I cannae  dae nae better; but if
he's to come skinking aboot my stair-fit,  damned, I micht as weel be deid for a' the comfort
I'll can get in  life.  Cannae he no be made to understand that it's beneath him?   Gosh, if
I was in his business, I wouldnae steir my heid for a  plain, auld ex-elder that, tak him the
way he taks himsel,' 's just  aboot as honest as he can weel afford, an' but for a wheen auld
scandals, near forgotten noo, is a pairfec'ly respectable and  thoroughly decent man.  Or if
I fashed wi' him ava', it wad be kind  o' handsome like; a pun'-note under his stair door,
or a bottle o'  auld, blended malt to his bit marnin', as a teshtymonial like yon  ye ken sae
weel aboot, but mair successfu'.

Dear Thomson, have I ony money?  If I have, SEND IT, for the  loard's sake.

JOHNSON.

Letter:  TO MISS FERRIER

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, NOVEMBER 12, 1884.

MY DEAR COGGIE, - Many thanks for the two photos which now decorate  my room.  I was particularly
glad to have the Bell Rock.  I wonder  if you saw me plunge, lance in rest, into a controversy
thereanent?   It was a very one-sided affair.  I slept upon the field of battle,  paraded,
sang Te Deum, and came home after a review rather than a  campaign.

Please tell Campbell I got his letter.  The Wild Woman of the West  has been much amiss and
complaining sorely.  I hope nothing more  serious is wrong with her than just my ill-health,
and consequent  anxiety and labour; but the deuce of it is, that the cause  continues.  I am
about knocked out of time now:  a miserable,  snuffling, shivering, fever-stricken, nightmare-ridden,
knee- jottering, hoast-hoast-hoasting shadow and remains of man.  But  we'll no gie ower jist
yet a bittie.  We've seen waur; and dod,  mem, it's my belief that we'll see better.  I dinna
ken 'at I've  muckle mair to say to ye, or, indeed, onything; but jist here's  guid-fallowship,
guid health, and the wale o' guid fortune to your  bonny sel'; and my respecs to the Perfessor
and his wife, and the  Prinshiple, an' the Bell Rock, an' ony ither public chara'ters that
I'm acquaunt wi'.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

BONALLIE TOWERS, BRANKSOME PARK, BOURNEMOUTH, NOV. 15, 1884.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - This Mr. Morley of yours is a most desperate  fellow.  He has sent me (for
my opinion) the most truculent  advertisement I ever saw, in which the white hairs of Gladstone
are  dragged round Troy behind my chariot wheels.  What can I say?  I  say nothing to him;
and to you, I content myself with remarking  that he seems a desperate fellow.

All luck to you on your American adventure; may you find health,  wealth, and entertainment!
If you see, as you likely will, Frank  R. Stockton, pray greet him from me in words to this
effect:-

My Stockton if I failed to like, It were a sheer depravity, For I went down with the THOMAS
HYKE And up with the NEGATIVE GRAVITY!

I adore these tales.

I hear flourishing accounts of your success at Cambridge, so you  leave with a good omen. 
Remember me to GREEN CORN if it is in  season; if not, you had better hang yourself on a sour
apple tree,  for your voyage has been lost. - Yours affectionately,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO AUSTIN DOBSON

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH [DECEMBER 1884?].

DEAR DOBSON, - Set down my delay to your own fault; I wished to  acknowledge such a gift from
you in some of my inapt and slovenly  rhymes; but you should have sent me your pen and not
your desk.   The verses stand up to the axles in a miry cross-road, whence the  coursers of
the sun shall never draw them; hence I am constrained  to this uncourtliness, that I must appear
before one of the kings  of that country of rhyme without my singing robes.  For less than
this, if we may trust the book of Esther, favourites have tasted  death; but I conceive the
kingdom of the Muses mildlier mannered;  and in particular that county which you administer
and which I seem  to see as a half-suburban land; a land of holly-hocks and country  houses;
a land where at night, in thorny and sequestered bypaths,  you will meet masqueraders going
to a ball in their sedans, and the  rector steering homeward by the light of his lantern; a
land of the  windmill, and the west wind, and the flowering hawthorn with a  little scented
letter in the hollow of its trunk, and the kites  flying over all in the season of kites, and
the far away blue  spires of a cathedral city.

Will you forgive me, then, for my delay and accept my thanks not  only for your present, but
for the letter which followed it, and  which perhaps I more particularly value, and believe
me to be, with  much admiration, yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO HENRY JAMES

BONALLIE TOWERS, BRANKSOME PARK, BOURNEMOUTH, DECEMBER 8, 1884.

MY DEAR HENRY JAMES,  - This is a very brave hearing from more  points than one.  The first
point is that there is a hope of a  sequel.  For this I laboured.  Seriously, from the dearth
of  information and thoughtful interest in the art of literature, those  who try to practise
it with any deliberate purpose run the risk of  finding no fit audience.  People suppose it
is 'the stuff' that  interests them; they think, for instance, that the prodigious fine  thoughts
and sentiments in Shakespeare impress by their own weight,  not understanding that the unpolished
diamond is but a stone.  They  think that striking situations, or good dialogue, are got by
studying life; they will not rise to understand that they are  prepared by deliberate artifice
and set off by painful  suppressions.  Now, I want the whole thing well ventilated, for my
own education and the public's; and I beg you to look as quick as  you can, to follow me up
with every circumstance of defeat where we  differ, and (to prevent the flouting of the laity)
to emphasise the  points where we agree.  I trust your paper will show me the way to  a rejoinder;
and that rejoinder I shall hope to make with so much  art as to woo or drive you from your
threatened silence.  I would  not ask better than to pass my life in beating out this quarter
of  corn with such a seconder as yourself.

Point the second - I am rejoiced indeed to hear you speak so kindly  of my work; rejoiced and
surprised.  I seem to myself a very rude,  left-handed countryman; not fit to be read, far
less complimented,  by a man so accomplished, so adroit, so craftsmanlike as you.  You  will
happily never have cause to understand the despair with which  a writer like myself considers
(say) the park scene in Lady  Barberina.  Every touch surprises me by its intangible precision;
and the effect when done, as light as syllabub, as distinct as a  picture, fills me with envy.
Each man among us prefers his own  aim, and I prefer mine; but when we come to speak of performance,
I  recognise myself, compared with you, to be a lout and slouch of the  first water.

Where we differ, both as to the design of stories and the  delineation of character, I begin
to lament.  Of course, I am not  so dull as to ask you to desert your walk; but could you not,
in  one novel, to oblige a sincere admirer, and to enrich his shelves  with a beloved volume,
could you not, and might you not, cast your  characters in a mould a little more abstract and
academic (dear  Mrs. Pennyman had already, among your other work, a taste of what I  mean),
and pitch the incidents, I do not say in any stronger, but  in a slightly more emphatic key
- as it were an episode from one of  the old (so-called) novels of adventure?  I fear you will
not; and  I suppose I must sighingly admit you to be right.  And yet, when I  see, as it were,
a book of Tom Jones handled with your exquisite  precision and shot through with those side-lights
of reflection in  which you excel, I relinquish the dear vision with regret.  Think  upon it.

As you know, I belong to that besotted class of man, the invalid:   this puts me to a stand
in the way of visits.  But it is possible  that some day you may feel that a day near the sea
and among  pinewoods would be a pleasant change from town.  If so, please let  us know; and
my wife and I will be delighted to put you up, and  give you what we can to eat and drink (I
have a fair bottle of  claret). - On the back of which, believe me, yours sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - I reopen this to say that I have re-read my paper, and  cannot think I have at all succeeded
in being either veracious or  polite.  I knew, of course, that I took your paper merely as
a pin  to hang my own remarks upon; but, alas! what a thing is any paper!   What fine remarks
can you not hang on mine!  How I have sinned  against proportion, and with every effort to
the contrary, against  the merest rudiments of courtesy to you!  You are indeed a very  acute
reader to have divined the real attitude of my mind; and I  can only conclude, not without
closed eyes and shrinking shoulders,  in the well-worn words

Lay on, Macduff!

Letter:  TO MR. AND MRS. THOMAS STEVENSON

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, DECEMBER 9, 1884.

MY DEAR PEOPLE, - The dreadful tragedy of the PALL MALL has come to  a happy but ludicrous
ending:  I am to keep the money, the tale  writ for them is to be buried certain fathoms deep,
and they are to  flash out before the world with our old friend of Kinnaird, 'The  Body Snatcher.'
When you come, please to bring -

(1) My MONTAIGNE, or, at least, the two last volumes. (2) My MILTON in the three vols. in green.
(3) The SHAKESPEARE that Babington sent me for a wedding-gift. (4) Hazlitt's TABLE TALK AND
PLAIN SPEAKER.

If you care to get a box of books from Douglas and Foulis, let them  be SOLID.  CROKER PAPERS,
CORRESPONDENCE OF NAPOLEON, HISTORY OF  HENRY IV., Lang's FOLK LORE, would be my desires.

I had a charming letter from Henry James about my LONGMAN paper.  I  did not understand queries
about the verses; the pictures to the  Seagull I thought charming; those to the second have
left me with a  pain in my poor belly and a swimming in the head.

About money, I am afloat and no more, and I warn you, unless I have  great luck, I shall have
to fall upon you at the New Year like a  hundredweight of bricks.  Doctor, rent, chemist, are
all  threatening; sickness has bitterly delayed my work; and unless, as  I say, I have the
mischief's luck, I shall completely break down.   VERBUM SAPIENTIBUS.  I do not live cheaply,
and I question if I  ever shall; but if only I had a halfpenny worth of health, I could  now
easily suffice.  The last breakdown of my head is what makes  this bankruptcy probable.

Fanny is still out of sorts; Bogue better; self fair, but a  stranger to the blessings of sleep.
- Ever affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, [DECEMBER 1884].

DEAR LAD, - I have made up my mind about the P. M. G., and send you  a copy, which please keep
or return.  As for not giving a  reduction, what are we?  Are we artists or city men?  Why
do we  sneer at stock-brokers?  O nary; I will not take the 40 pounds.  I  took that as a fair
price for my best work; I was not able to  produce my best; and I will be damned if I steal
with my eyes open.   SUFFICIT.  This is my lookout.  As for the paper being rich,  certainly
it is; but I am honourable.  It is no more above me in  money than the poor slaveys and cads
from whom I look for honesty  are below me.  Am I Pepys, that because I can find the countenance
of 'some of our ablest merchants,' that because - and - pour forth  languid twaddle and get
paid for it, I, too, should 'cheerfully  continue to steal'?  I am not Pepys.  I do not live
much to God and  honour; but I will not wilfully turn my back on both.  I am, like  all the
rest of us, falling ever lower from the bright ideas I  began with, falling into greed, into
idleness, into middle-aged and  slippered fireside cowardice; but is it you, my bold blade,
that I  hear crying this sordid and rank twaddle in my ear?  Preaching the  dankest Grundyism
and upholding the rank customs of our trade -  you, who are so cruel hard upon the customs
of the publishers?  O  man, look at the Beam in our own Eyes; and whatever else you do, do
not plead Satan's cause, or plead it for all; either embrace the  bad, or respect the good
when you see a poor devil trying for it.   If this is the honesty of authors - to take what
you can get and  console yourself because publishers are rich - take my name from  the rolls
of that association.  'Tis a caucus of weaker thieves,  jealous of the stronger. - Ever yours,

THE ROARING R. L. S.

You will see from the enclosed that I have stuck to what I think my  dues pretty tightly in
spite of this flourish:  these are my words  for a poor ten-pound note!

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, [WINTER, 1884].

MY DEAR LAD, - Here was I in bed; not writing, not hearing, and  finding myself gently and
agreeably ill used; and behold I learn  you are bad yourself.  Get your wife to send us a word
how you are.   I am better decidedly.  Bogue got his Christmas card, and behaved  well for
three days after.  It may interest the cynical to learn  that I started my last haemorrhage
by too sedulous attentions to my  dear Bogue.  The stick was broken; and that night Bogue,
who was  attracted by the extraordinary aching of his bones, and is always  inclined to a serious
view of his own ailments, announced with his  customary pomp that he was dying.  In this case,
however, it was  not the dog that died.  (He had tried to bite his mother's ankles.)   I have
written a long and peculiarly solemn paper on the technical  elements of style.  It is path-breaking
and epoch-making; but I do  not think the public will be readily convoked to its perusal. 
Did  I tell you that S. C. had risen to the paper on James?  At last!  O  but I was pleased;
he's (like Johnnie) been lang, lang o' comin',  but here he is.  He will not object to my future
manoeuvres in the  same field, as he has to my former.  All the family are here; my  father
better than I have seen him these two years; my mother the  same as ever.  I do trust you are
better, and I am yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO H. A. JONES

BONALLIE TOWERS, BRANKSOME PARK, BOURNEMOUTH, DEC. 30, 1884.

DEAR SIR, - I am so accustomed to hear nonsense spoken about all  the arts, and the drama in
particular, that I cannot refrain from  saying 'Thank you,' for your paper.  In my answer to
Mr. James, in  the December LONGMAN, you may see that I have merely touched, I  think in a
parenthesis, on the drama; but I believe enough was said  to indicate our agreement in essentials.

Wishing you power and health to further enunciate and to act upon  these principles, believe
me, dear sir, yours truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

BONALLIE TOWERS, BRANKSOME PARK, BOURNEMOUTH, JAN. 4, 1885.

DEAR S. C., - I am on my feet again, and getting on my boots to do  the IRON DUKE.  Conceive
my glee:  I have refused the 100 pounds,  and am to get some sort of royalty, not yet decided,
instead.  'Tis  for Longman's ENGLISH WORTHIES, edited by A. Lang.  Aw haw, haw!

Now, look here, could you get me a loan of the Despatches, or is  that a dream?  I should have
to mark passages I fear, and certainly  note pages on the fly.  If you think it a dream, will
Bain get me a  second-hand copy, or who would?  The sooner, and cheaper, I can get  it the
better.  If there is anything in your weird library that  bears on either the man or the period,
put it in a mortar and fire  it here instanter; I shall catch.  I shall want, of course, an
infinity of books:  among which, any lives there may be; a life of  the Marquis Marmont (the
Marechal), MARMONT'S MEMOIRS, GREVILLE'S  MEMOIRS, PEEL'S MEMOIRS, NAPIER, that blind man's
history of  England you once lent me, Hamley's WATERLOO; can you get me any of  these?  Thiers,
idle Thiers also.  Can you help a man getting into  his boots for such a huge campaign?  How
are you?  A Good New Year  to you.  I mean to have a good one, but on whose funds I cannot
fancy:  not mine leastways, as I am a mere derelict and drift beam- on to bankruptcy.

For God's sake, remember the man who set out for to conquer Arthur  Wellesley, with a broken
bellows and an empty pocket. - Yours ever,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO THOMAS STEVENSON

[BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH,] 14TH JANUARY 1885.

MY DEAR FATHER, - I am glad you like the changes.  I own I was  pleased with my hand's darg;
you may observe, I have corrected  several errors which (you may tell Mr. Dick) he had allowed
to pass  his eagle eye; I wish there may be none in mine; at least, the  order is better. 
The second title, 'Some new Engineering Questions  involved in the M. S. C. Scheme of last
Session of P.', likes me  the best.  I think it a very good paper; and I am vain enough to
think I have materially helped to polish the diamond.  I ended by  feeling quite proud of the
paper, as if it had been mine; the next  time you have as good a one, I will overhaul it for
the wages of  feeling as clever as I did when I had managed to understand and  helped to set
it clear.  I wonder if I anywhere misapprehended you?   I rather think not at the last; at
the first shot I know I missed a  point or two.  Some of what may appear to you to be wanton
changes,  a little study will show to be necessary.

Yes, Carlyle was ashamed of himself as few men have been; and let  all carpers look at what
he did.  He prepared all these papers for  publication with his own hand; all his wife's complaints,
all the  evidence of his own misconduct:  who else would have done so much?   Is repentance,
which God accepts, to have no avail with men? nor  even with the dead?  I have heard too much
against the thrawn,  discomfortable dog:  dead he is, and we may be glad of it; but he  was
a better man than most of us, no less patently than he was a  worse.  To fill the world with
whining is against all my views:  I  do not like impiety.  But - but - there are two sides
to all  things, and the old scalded baby had his noble side. - Ever  affectionate son,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, JANUARY 1885.

DEAR S. C., - I have addressed a letter to the G. O. M., A PROPOS  of Wellington; and I became
aware, you will be interested to hear,  of an overwhelming respect for the old gentleman. 
I can BLAGUER  his failures; but when you actually address him, and bring the two  statures
and records to confrontation, dismay is the result.  By  mere continuance of years, he must
impose; the man who helped to  rule England before I was conceived, strikes me with a new sense
of  greatness and antiquity, when I must actually beard him with the  cold forms of correspondence.
I shied at the necessity of calling  him plain 'Sir'!  Had he been 'My lord,' I had been happier;
no, I  am no equalitarian.  Honour to whom honour is due; and if to none,  why, then, honour
to the old!

These, O Slade Professor, are my unvarnished sentiments:  I was a  little surprised to find
them so extreme, and therefore I  communicate the fact.

Belabour thy brains, as to whom it would be well to question.  I  have a small space; I wish
to make a popular book, nowhere obscure,  nowhere, if it can be helped, unhuman.  It seems
to me the most  hopeful plan to tell the tale, so far as may be, by anecdote.  He  did not
die till so recently, there must be hundreds who remember  him, and thousands who have still
ungarnered stories.  Dear man, to  the breach!  Up, soldier of the iron dook, up, Slades, and
at 'em!  (which, conclusively, he did not say:  the at 'em-ic theory is to  be dismissed).
You know piles of fellows who must reek with  matter; help! help! - Yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIDNEY COLVIN

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, FEBRUARY 1885.

MY DEAR COLVIN, - You are indeed a backward correspondent, and much  may be said against you.
But in this weather, and O dear! in this  political scene of degradation, much must be forgiven.
I fear  England is dead of Burgessry, and only walks about galvanised.  I  do not love to think
of my countrymen these days; nor to remember  myself.  Why was I silent?  I feel I have no
right to blame any  one; but I won't write to the G. O. M.  I do really not see my way  to
any form of signature, unless 'your fellow criminal in the eyes  of God,' which might disquiet
the proprieties.

About your book, I have always said:  go on.  The drawing of  character is a different thing
from publishing the details of a  private career.  No one objects to the first, or should object,
if  his name be not put upon it; at the other, I draw the line.  In a  preface, if you chose,
you might distinguish; it is, besides, a  thing for which you are eminently well equipped,
and which you  would do with taste and incision.  I long to see the book.  People  like themselves
(to explain a little more); no one likes his life,  which is a misbegotten issue, and a tale
of failure.  To see these  failures either touched upon, or COASTED, to get the idea of a 
spying eye and blabbing tongue about the house, is to lose all  privacy in life.  To see that
thing, which we do love, our  character, set forth, is ever gratifying.  See how my TALK AND
TALKERS went; every one liked his own portrait, and shrieked about  other people's; so it will
be with yours.  If you are the least  true to the essential, the sitter will be pleased; very
likely not  his friends, and that from VARIOUS MOTIVES.

R. L. S.

When will your holiday be?  I sent your letter to my wife, and  forget.  Keep us in mind, and
I hope we shall he able to receive  you.

Letter:  TO J. A. SYMONDS

BOURNEMOUTH, FEBRUARY 1885.

MY DEAR SYMONDS, - Yes, we have both been very neglectful.  I had  horrid luck, catching two
thundering influenzas in August and  November.  I recovered from the last with difficulty,
but have come  through this blustering winter with some general success; in the  house, up
and down.  My wife, however, has been painfully upset by  my health.  Last year, of course,
was cruelly trying to her nerves;  Nice and Hyeres are bad experiences; and though she is not
ill, the  doctor tells me that prolonged anxiety may do her a real mischief.

I feel a little old and fagged, and chary of speech, and not very  sure of spirit in my work;
but considering what a year I have  passed, and how I have twice sat on Charon's pierhead,
I am  surprising.

My father has presented us with a very pretty home in this place,  into which we hope to move
by May.  My CHILD'S VERSES come out next  week.  OTTO begins to appear in April; MORE NEW ARABIAN
NIGHTS as  soon as possible.  Moreover, I am neck deep in Wellington; also a  story on the
stocks, GREAT NORTH ROAD.  O, I am busy! Lloyd is at  college in Edinburgh.  That is, I think,
all that can be said by  way of news.

Have you read HUCKLEBERRY FINN?  It contains many excellent things;  above all, the whole story
of a healthy boy's dealings with his  conscience, incredibly well done.

My own conscience is badly seared; a want of piety; yet I pray for  it, tacitly, every day;
believing it, after courage, the only gift  worth having; and its want, in a man of any claims
to honour, quite  unpardonable.  The tone of your letter seemed to me very sound.  In  these
dark days of public dishonour, I do not know that one can do  better than carry our private
trials piously.  What a picture is  this of a nation!  No man that I can see, on any side or
party,  seems to have the least sense of our ineffable shame:  the  desertion of the garrisons.
I tell my little parable that Germany  took England, and then there was an Indian Mutiny, and
Bismarck  said:  'Quite right:  let Delhi and Calcutta and Bombay fall; and  let the women
and children be treated Sepoy fashion,' and people  say, 'O, but that is very different!' 
And then I wish I were dead.   Millais (I hear) was painting Gladstone when the news came of
Gordon's death; Millais was much affected, and Gladstone said,  'Why?  IT IS THE MAN'S OWN
TEMERITY!'  Voila le Bourgeois! le voila  nu!  But why should I blame Gladstone, when I too
am a Bourgeois?  when I have held my peace?  Why did I hold my peace?  Because I am  a sceptic:
I.E. a Bourgeois.  We believe in nothing, Symonds; you  don't, and I don't; and these are two
reasons, out of a handful of  millions, why England stands before the world dripping with blood
and daubed with dishonour.  I will first try to take the beam out  of my own eye, trusting
that even private effort somehow betters  and braces the general atmosphere.  See, for example,
if England  has shown (I put it hypothetically) one spark of manly sensibility,  they have
been shamed into it by the spectacle of Gordon.  Police- Officer Cole is the only man that
I see to admire.  I dedicate my  NEW ARABS to him and Cox, in default of other great public
characters. - Yours ever most affectionately,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, MARCH 12, 1885.

MY DEAR GOSSE, - I was indeed much exercised how I could be worked  into Gray; and lo! when
I saw it, the passage seemed to have been  written with a single eye to elucidate the - worst?
- well, not a  very good poem of Gray's.  Your little life is excellent, clean,  neat, efficient.
I have read many of your notes, too, with  pleasure.  Your connection with Gray was a happy
circumstance; it  was a suitable conjunction.

I did not answer your letter from the States, for what was I to  say?  I liked getting it and
reading it; I was rather flattered  that you wrote it to me; and then I'll tell you what I
did - I put  it in the fire.  Why?  Well, just because it was very natural and  expansive;
and thinks I to myself, if I die one of these fine  nights, this is just the letter that Gosse
would not wish to go  into the hands of third parties.  Was I well inspired?  And I did  not
answer it because you were in your high places, sailing with  supreme dominion, and seeing
life in a particular glory; and I was  peddling in a corner, confined to the house, overwhelmed
with  necessary work, which I was not always doing well, and, in the very  mild form in which
the disease approaches me, touched with a sort  of bustling cynicism.  Why throw cold water?
How ape your  agreeable frame of mind?  In short, I held my tongue.

I have now published on 101 small pages THE COMPLETE PROOF OF MR.  R. L. STEVENSON'S INCAPACITY
TO WRITE VERSE, in a series of  graduated examples with table of contents.  I think I shall
issue a  companion volume of exercises:  'Analyse this poem.  Collect and  comminate the ugly
words.  Distinguish and condemn the CHEVILLES.   State Mr. Stevenson's faults of taste in regard
to the measure.   What reasons can you gather from this example for your belief that  Mr. S.
is unable to write any other measure?'

They look ghastly in the cold light of print; but there is  something nice in the little ragged
regiment for all; the  blackguards seem to me to smile, to have a kind of childish treble 
note that sounds in my ears freshly; not song, if you will, but a  child's voice.

I was glad you enjoyed your visit to the States.  Most Englishmen  go there with a confirmed
design of patronage, as they go to France  for that matter; and patronage will not pay.  Besides,
in this year  of - grace, said I? - of disgrace, who should creep so low as an  Englishman?
'It is not to be thought of that the flood' - ah,  Wordsworth, you would change your note were
you alive to-day!

I am now a beastly householder, but have not yet entered on my  domain.  When I do, the social
revolution will probably cast me  back upon my dung heap.  There is a person called Hyndman
whose eye  is on me; his step is beHynd me as I go.  I shall call my house  Skerryvore when
I get it:  SKERRYVORE:  C'EST BON POUR LA POESHIE.   I will conclude with my favourite sentiment:
'The world is too  much with me.'

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON, THE HERMIT OF SKERRYVORE.

Author of 'John Vane Tempest:  a Romance,' 'Herbert and Henrietta:   or the Nemesis of Sentiment,'
'The Life and Adventures of Colonel  Bludyer Fortescue,' 'Happy Homes and Hairy Faces,' 'A
Pound of  Feathers and a Pound of Lead,' part author of 'Minn's Complete  Capricious Correspondent:
a Manual of Natty, Natural, and Knowing  Letters,' and editor of the 'Poetical Remains of Samuel
Burt  Crabbe, known as the melodious Bottle-Holder.'

Uniform with the above:

'The Life and Remains of the Reverend Jacob Degray Squah,' author  of 'Heave-yo for the New
Jerusalem.'  'A Box of Candles; or the  Patent Spiritual Safety Match,' and 'A Day with the
Heavenly  Harriers.'

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

BONALLIE TOWERS, BOURNEMOUTH, MARCH 13, 1885.

MY DEAR LOW, - Your success has been immense.  I wish your letter  had come two days ago: 
OTTO, alas! has been disposed of a good  while ago; but it was only day before yesterday that
I settled the  new volume of Arabs.  However, for the future, you and the sons of  the deified
Scribner are the men for me.  Really they have behaved  most handsomely.  I cannot lay my hand
on the papers, or I would  tell you exactly how it compares with my English bargain; but it
compares well.  Ah, if we had that copyright, I do believe it would  go far to make me solvent,
ill-health and all.

I wrote you a letter to the Rembrandt, in which I stated my views  about the dedication in
a very brief form.  It will give me sincere  pleasure, and will make the second dedication
I have received, the  other being from John Addington Symonds.  It is a compliment I  value
much; I don't know any that I should prefer.

I am glad to hear you have windows to do; that is a fine business,  I think; but, alas! the
glass is so bad nowadays; realism invading  even that, as well as the huge inferiority of our
technical  resource corrupting every tint.  Still, anything that keeps a man  to decoration
is, in this age, good for the artist's spirit.

By the way, have you seen James and me on the novel?  James, I  think in the August or September
- R.  L. S. in the December  LONGMAN.  I own I think the ECOLE BETE, of which I am the champion,
has the whip hand of the argument; but as James is to make a  rejoinder, I must not boast.
Anyway the controversy is amusing to  see.  I was terribly tied down to space, which has made
the end  congested and dull.  I shall see if I can afford to send you the  April CONTEMPORARY
- but I dare say you see it anyway - as it will  contain a paper of mine on style, a sort of
continuation of old  arguments on art in which you have wagged a most effective tongue.   It
is a sort of start upon my Treatise on the Art of Literature:  a  small, arid book that shall
some day appear.

With every good wish from me and mine (should I not say 'she and  hers'?) to you and yours,
believe me yours ever,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO P. G. HAMERTON

BOURNEMOUTH, MARCH 16, 1885.

MY DEAR HAMERTON, - Various things have been reminding me of my  misconduct:  First, Swan's
application for your address; second, a  sight of the sheets of your LANDSCAPE book; and last,
your note to  Swan, which he was so kind as to forward.  I trust you will never  suppose me
to be guilty of anything more serious than an idleness,  partially excusable.  My ill-health
makes my rate of life heavier  than I can well meet, and yet stops me from earning more.  My
conscience, sometimes perhaps too easily stifled, but still (for my  time of life and the public
manners of the age) fairly well alive,  forces me to perpetual and almost endless transcriptions.
On the  back of all this, my correspondence hangs like a thundercloud; and  just when I think
I am getting through my troubles, crack, down  goes my health, I have a long, costly sickness,
and begin the world  again.  It is fortunate for me I have a father, or I should long  ago
have died; but the opportunity of the aid makes the necessity  none the more welcome.  My father
has presented me with a beautiful  house here - or so I believe, for I have not yet seen it,
being a  cage bird but for nocturnal sorties in the garden.  I hope we shall  soon move into
it, and I tell myself that some day perhaps we may  have the pleasure of seeing you as our
guest.  I trust at least  that you will take me as I am, a thoroughly bad correspondent, and
a man, a hater, indeed, of rudeness in others, but too often rude  in all unconsciousness himself;
and that you will never cease to  believe the sincere sympathy and admiration that I feel for
you and  for your work.

About the LANDSCAPE, which I had a glimpse of while a friend of  mine was preparing a review,
I was greatly interested, and could  write and wrangle for a year on every page; one passage
particularly delighted me, the part about Ulysses - jolly.  Then,  you know, that is just what
I fear I have come to think landscape  ought to be in literature; so there we should be at
odds.  Or  perhaps not so much as I suppose, as Montaigne says it is a pot  with two handles,
and I own I am wedded to the technical handle,  which (I likewise own and freely) you do well
to keep for a  mistress.  I should much like to talk with you about some other  points; it
is only in talk that one gets to understand.  Your  delightful Wordsworth trap I have tried
on two hardened  Wordsworthians, not that I am not one myself.  By covering up the  context,
and asking them to guess what the passage was, both (and  both are very clever people, one
a writer, one a painter)  pronounced it a guide-book.  'Do you think it an unusually good 
guide-book?' I asked, and both said, 'No, not at all!'  Their  grimace was a picture when I
showed the original.

I trust your health and that of Mrs. Hamerton keep better; your  last account was a poor one.
I was unable to make out the visit I  had hoped, as (I do not know if you heard of it) I had
a very  violent and dangerous haemorrhage last spring.  I am almost glad to  have seen death
so close with all my wits about me, and not in the  customary lassitude and disenchantment
of disease.  Even thus  clearly beheld I find him not so terrible as we suppose.  But,  indeed,
with the passing of years, the decay of strength, the loss  of all my old active and pleasant
habits, there grows more and more  upon me that belief in the kindness of this scheme of things,
and  the goodness of our veiled God, which is an excellent and pacifying  compensation.  I
trust, if your health continues to trouble you,  you may find some of the same belief.  But
perhaps my fine  discovery is a piece of art, and belongs to a character cowardly,  intolerant
of certain feelings, and apt to self-deception.  I don't  think so, however; and when I feel
what a weak and fallible vessel  I was thrust into this hurly-burly, and with what marvellous
kindness the wind has been tempered to my frailties, I think I  should be a strange kind of
ass to feel anything but gratitude.

I do not know why I should inflict this talk upon you; but when I  summon the rebellous pen,
he must go his own way; I am no Michael  Scott, to rule the fiend of correspondence.  Most
days he will none  of me; and when he comes, it is to rape me where he will. - Yours  very
sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO WILLIAM ARCHER

BOURNEMOUTH, MARCH 29, 1885.

DEAR MR. ARCHER, - Yes, I have heard of you and read some of your  work; but I am bound in
particular to thank you for the notice of  my verses.  'There,' I said, throwing it over to
the friend who was  staying with me, 'it's worth writing a book to draw an article like  that.'
Had you been as hard upon me as you were amiable, I try to  tell myself I should have been
no blinder to the merits of your  notice.  For I saw there, to admire and to be very grateful
for, a  most sober, agile pen; an enviable touch; the marks of a reader,  such as one imagines
for one's self in dreams, thoughtful,  critical, and kind; and to put the top on this memorial
column, a  greater readiness to describe the author criticised than to display  the talents
of his censor.

I am a man BLASE to injudicious praise (though I hope some of it  may be judicious too), but
I have to thank you for THE BEST  CRITICISM I EVER HAD; and am therefore, dear Mr. Archer,
the most  grateful critickee now extant.

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - I congratulate you on living in the corner of all London  that I like best.  A PROPOS,
you are very right about my voluntary  aversion from the painful sides of life.  My childhood
was in  reality a very mixed experience, full of fever, nightmare,  insomnia, painful days
and interminable nights; and I can speak  with less authority of gardens than of that other
'land of  counterpane.'  But to what end should we renew these sorrows?  The  sufferings of
life may be handled by the very greatest in their  hours of insight; it is of its pleasures
that our common poems  should be formed; these are the experiences that we should seek to 
recall or to provoke; and I say with Thoreau, 'What right have I to  complain, who have not
ceased to wonder?' and, to add a rider of my  own, who have no remedy to offer.

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO MRS. FLEEMING JENKIN

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, JUNE 1885.]

MY DEAR MRS. JENKIN, - You know how much and for how long I have  loved, respected, and admired
him; I am only able to feel a little  with you.  But I know how he would have wished us to
feel.  I never  knew a better man, nor one to me more lovable; we shall all feel  the loss
more greatly as time goes on.  It scarce seems life to me;  what must it be to you?  Yet one
of the last things that he said to  me was, that from all these sad bereavements of yours he
had  learned only more than ever to feel the goodness and what we, in  our feebleness, call
the support of God; he had been ripening so  much - to other eyes than ours, we must suppose
he was ripe, and  try to feel it.  I feel it is better not to say much more.  It will  be to
me a great pride to write a notice of him:  the last I can  now do.  What more in any way I
can do for you, please to think and  let me know.  For his sake and for your own, I would not
be a  useless friend:  I know, you know me a most warm one; please  command me or my wife,
in any way.  Do not trouble to write to me;  Austin, I have no doubt, will do so, if you are,
as I fear you will  be, unfit.

My heart is sore for you.  At least you know what you have been to  him; how he cherished and
admired you; how he was never so pleased  as when he spoke of you; with what a boy's love,
up to the last, he  loved you.  This surely is a consolation.  Yours is the cruel part  - to
survive; you must try and not grudge to him his better  fortune, to go first.  It is the sad
part of such relations that  one must remain and suffer; I cannot see my poor Jenkin without
you.  Nor you indeed without him; but you may try to rejoice that  he is spared that extremity.
Perhaps I (as I was so much his  confidant) know even better than you can do what your loss
would  have been to him; he never spoke of you but his face changed; it  was - you were - his
religion.  Your very  kind note was most welcome to me.  I shall be very much pleased to  have
you call me Louis, as he has now done for so many years.   Sixteen, you say? is it so long?
It seems too short now; but of  that we cannot judge, and must not complain.

I wish that either I or my wife could do anything for you; when we  can, you will, I am sure,
command us.

I trust that my notice gave you as little pain as was possible.  I  found I had so much to
say, that I preferred to keep it for another  place and make but a note in the ACADEMY.  To
try to draw my friend  at greater length, and say what he was to me and his intimates,  what
a good influence in life and what an example, is a desire that  grows upon me.  It was strange,
as I wrote the note, how his old  tests and criticisms haunted me; and it reminded me afresh
with  every few words how much I owe to him.

I had a note from Henley, very brief and very sad.  We none of us  yet feel the loss; but we
know what he would have said and wished.

Do you know that Dew Smith has two photographs of him, neither very  bad? and one giving a
lively, though not flattering air of him in  conversation?  If you have not got them, would
you like me to write  to Dew and ask him to give you proofs?

I was so pleased that he and my wife made friends; that is a great  pleasure.  We found and
have preserved one fragment (the head) of  the drawing he made and tore up when he was last
here.  He had  promised to come and stay with us this summer.  May we not hope, at  least,
some time soon to have one from you? - Believe me, my dear  Mrs. Jenkin, with the most real
sympathy, your sincere friend,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Dear me, what happiness I owe to both of you!

Letter:  TO W. H. LOW

SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, OCTOBER 22, 1885.

MY DEAR LOW, - I trust you are not annoyed with me beyond  forgiveness; for indeed my silence
has been devilish prolonged.  I  can only tell you that I have been nearly six months (more
than  six) in a strange condition of collapse, when it was impossible to  do any work, and
difficult (more difficult than you would suppose)  to write the merest note.  I am now better,
but not yet my own man  in the way of brains, and in health only so-so.  I suppose I shall
learn (I begin to think I am learning) to fight this vast, vague  feather-bed of an obsession
that now overlies and smothers me; but  in the beginnings of these conflicts, the inexperienced
wrestler is  always worsted, and I own I have been quite extinct.  I wish you to  know, though
it can be no excuse, that you are not the only one of  my friends by many whom I have thus
neglected; and even now, having  come so very late into the possession of myself, with a substantial
capital of debts, and my work still moving with a desperate  slowness - as a child might fill
a sandbag with its little handfuls  - and my future deeply pledged, there is almost a touch
of virtue  in my borrowing these hours to write to you.  Why I said 'hours' I  know not; it
would look blue for both of us if I made good the  word.

I was writing your address the other day, ordering a copy of my  next, PRINCE OTTO, to go your
way.  I hope you have not seen it in  parts; it was not meant to be so read; and only my poverty
(dishonourably) consented to the serial evolution.

I will send you with this a copy of the English edition of the  CHILD'S GARDEN.  I have heard
there is some vile rule of the post- office in the States against inscriptions; so I send herewith
a  piece of doggerel which Mr. Bunner may, if he thinks fit, copy off  the fly leaf.

Sargent was down again and painted a portrait of me walking about  in my own dining-room, in
my own velveteen jacket, and twisting as  I go my own moustache; at one corner a glimpse of
my wife, in an  Indian dress, and seated in a chair that was once my grandfather's;  but since
some months goes by the name of Henry James's, for it was  there the novelist loved to sit
- adds a touch of poesy and  comicality.  It is, I think, excellent, but is too eccentric to
be  exhibited.  I am at one extreme corner; my wife, in this wild  dress, and looking like
a ghost, is at the extreme other end;  between us an open door exhibits my palatial entrance
hall and a  part of my respected staircase.  All this is touched in lovely,  with that witty
touch of Sargent's; but, of course, it looks dam  queer as a whole.

Pray let me hear from you, and give me good news of yourself and  your wife, to whom please
remember me. -

Yours most sincerely, my dear Low,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO W. E. HENLEY

[SKERRYVORE, BOURNEMOUTH, AUTUMN 1885.]

