"While we had been penetrating to the heart of the Russian Colossus, had not his arms remained
advanced and extended towards the Baltic and the Black Sea? was he likely to leave them motionless
now, when, instead of striking him mortal blows, we had been struck ourselves? Was not the
fatal moment arrived when this Colossus was about to surround us with his threatening arms?
Could we imagine that we had either tied them up, or paralysed them, by opposing to them the
Austrians in the south, and the Prussians in the north? Was it not rather a method of rendering
the Poles and the French, who were mixed with these dangerous allies, entirely useless?

"But without going far in search of causes of uneasiness, was the Emperor ignorant of the joy
of the Russians, when three months before he stopped to attack Smolensk, instead of marching
to the right to Elnia, where he would have cut off the enemy's army from a retreat upon their
capital? Now that the war has returned back to the same spots, will the Russians, whose movements
are much more free than ours were then, imitate our error? Will they keep in our rear when
they can so easily place themselves before us, on the line of our retreat?

"Is Napoleon unwilling to allow that Kutusoff's attack may be bolder and more skilful than
his own had been? Are the circumstances still the same? Was not every thing favourable to the
Russians during their retreat, and, on the contrary, has not every thing been unfavourable
to us, in our retreat? Will not the cutting off Augereau and his brigade upon that road open
his eyes? What business had we in the burnt and ravaged Smolensk, but to take a supply of provisions
and proceed rapidly onwards?

"But the Emperor no doubt fancied that by dating his despatches five days from that city, he
would give to his disorderly flight the appearance of a slow and glorious retreat! This was
the reason of his ordering the destruction of the towers which surround Smolensk, from the
wish, as he expressed it, of not being again stopped short by its walls! as if there was any
idea of our returning to a place, which we did not even know whether we should ever get out of.

"Will any one believe that he wished to give time to the artillerymen to shoe their horses
against the ice? as if he could expect any labour from workmen emaciated with hunger and long
marches; from poor wretches who hardly found, the day long enough to procure provisions and
dress them, whose forges were thrown away or damaged, and who besides wanted the indispensable
materials for a labour so considerable.

"But perhaps he wished to allow himself time to drive on before him, out of danger and clear
of the ranks, the troublesome crowd of soldiers, who had become useless, to rally the better
sort, and to re-organize the army? as if it were possible to convey any orders whatever to
men so scattered about, or to rally them, without lodgings, or distribution of provisions,
to bivouacs; in short, to think of re-organization for corps of dying soldiers, all of whom
had no longer any thing to adhere to, and whom the least touch would dissolve."

Such, around Napoleon, were the conversations of his officers; or rather their secret reflexions:
for their devotion to him remained entire for two whole years longer, in the midst of the greatest
calamities, and of the general revolt of nations.

The Emperor, however, made an effort which was not altogether fruitless; namely, to rally,
under one commander, all that remained of the cavalry: of thirty-seven thousand cavalry which
were present at the passage of the Niemen, there were now only eighteen hundred left on horseback.
He gave the command of them to Latour-Maubourg; whether from the esteem felt for him, or from
fatigue, no one objected to it.

As to Latour-Maubourg, he received the honour or the charge without expressing either pleasure
or regret. He was a character of peculiar stamp; always ready without forwardness, calm and
active, remarkable for his extreme purity of morals, simple and unostentatious; in other respects,
unaffected and sincere in his relations with others, and attaching the idea of glory only to
actions, and not to words. He always marched with the same order and moderation in the midst
of the most immoderate disorder; and yet, what does honour to the age, he attained to the highest
distinctions as quickly and as rapidly as any who could be named.

This feeble re-organization, the distribution of a part of the provisions, the plunder of the
rest, the repose which the Emperor and his guard were enabled to take, the destruction of part
of the artillery and baggage, and finally, the expedition of a number of orders, were nearly
all the benefits which were derived from that fatal delay. In other respects, all the misfortunes
happened which had been foreseen. A few hundred men were only rallied for a moment. The explosion
of the mines scarcely blew up the outside of some of the walls, and was only of use on the
last day, in driving out of the town the stragglers whom we had been unable to set in motion.

The soldiers who had totally lost heart, the women, and several thousand sick and wounded,
were here abandoned. This was when Augereau's disaster near Elnia made it but too evident that
Kutusoff, now become the pursuer, did not confine himself to the high road; that he was marching
from Wiazma by Elnia, direct upon Krasnoë; finally, when we ought to have foreseen that we
should be obliged to cut our way through the Russian army, it was only on the 14th of November
that the grand army (or rather thirty-six thousand troops) commenced its march.

The old and young guard had not then more than from nine to ten thousand infantry, and two
thousand cavalry; Davoust and the first corps, from eight to nine thousand; Ney and the third
corps, five to six thousand; Prince Eugene and the army of Italy, five thousand; Poniatowski,
eight hundred; Junot and the Westphalians, seven hundred; Latour-Maubourg and the rest of the
cavalry, fifteen hundred; there might also be about one thousand light horse, and five hundred
dismounted cavalry, whom we had succeeded in collecting together.

This army had left Moscow one hundred thousand strong; in five-and-twenty days it had been
reduced to thirty-six thousand men. The artillery had already lost three hundred and fifty
of their cannon, and yet these feeble remains were always divided into eight armies, which
were encumbered with sixty thousand unarmed stragglers, and a long train of cannon and baggage.

Whether it was this incumbrance of so many men and carriages, or a mistaken sense of security,
which led the Emperor to order a day's interval between the departure of each marshal, is uncertain;
most probably it was the latter. Be that as it may, he, Eugene, Davoust, and Ney only quitted
Smolensk in succession; Ney was not to leave it till the 16th or 17th. He had orders to make
the artillery saw the trunnions of the cannon left behind, and bury them; to destroy the ammunition,
to drive all the stragglers before him, and to blow up the towers which surrounded the city.

Kutusoff, meanwhile, was waiting for us at some leagues distance from thence, and preparing
to cut in pieces successively those remnants of corps thus extended and parcelled out.

CHAP. III.

It was on the 14th of November, about five in the morning, that the imperial column at last
quitted Smolensk. Its march was still firm, but gloomy and silent as night, and mute and discoloured
as the aspect of the country through which it was advancing.

This silence was only interrupted by the cracking of the whips applied to the poor horses,
and by short and violent imprecations when they met with ravines; and when upon these icy declivities,
men, horses, and artillery were rolling in obscurity, one over the other. The first day they
advanced five leagues. The artillery of the guard took twenty-two hours to get over that ground.

Nevertheless, this first column arrived, without any great loss of men, at Korythinia, which
Junot had passed with his Westphalian corps, now reduced to seven hundred men. A vanguard had
pushed on as far as Krasnoë. The wounded and disbanded men were on the point of reaching Liady.
Korythinia is five leagues from Smolensk; Krasnoë five leagues from Korythinia; Liady four
leagues from Krasnoë. The Boristhenes flows at two leagues on the right of the high road from
Korythinia to Krasnoë.

Near Korythinia another road, that from Elnia to Krasnoë, runs close to the great road. That
very day Kutusoff advanced upon that road with ninety thousand men, which completely covered
it; his march was parallel with that of Napoleon, whom he soon outstripped; on the cross-roads
he sent forward several vanguards to intercept our retreat.

One of these, said to be commanded by Ostermann, made its appearance at Korythinia at the same
time with Napoleon, and was driven back.

A second, consisting of twenty thousand men, and commanded by Miloradowitch, took a position
three leagues in advance of us, towards Merlino and Nikoulina, behind a ravine which skirts
the left side of the great road; and there, lying in ambush on the flank of our retreat, it
awaited our passage.

At the same time a third reached Krasnoë, which it surprised during the night, but was driven
out by Sebastiani, who had just arrived there.

Finally, a fourth, pushed still more in advance, got between Krasnoë and Liady, and carried
off, upon the high road, several generals and other officers who were marching singly.

Kutusoff, at the same time, with the bulk of his army, advanced, and took a position in the
rear of these vanguards, and within reach of them all, and felicitated himself on the success
of his manoeuvres, which would have inevitably failed, owing to his tardiness, had it not been
for our want of foresight; for this was a contest of errors, in which ours being the greatest,
we could have no thought of escaping total destruction. Having made these dispositions, the
Russian commander must have believed that the French army was entirely in his power; but this
belief saved us. Kutusoff was wanting to himself at the moment of action; his old age executed
only half and badly the plans which it had combined wisely.

During the time that all these masses were arranging themselves round Napoleon, he remained
perfectly tranquil in a miserable hut, the only one left standing in Korythinia, apparently
quite unconscious of all these movements of troops, artillery, and cavalry, which were surrounding
him in all directions; at least he sent no orders to the three corps which had halted at Smolensk
to expedite their march, and he himself waited for daylight to proceed.

His column was advancing, without precaution, preceded by a crowd of stragglers, all eager
to reach Krasnoë, when at two leagues from that place, a row of Cossacks, placed from the heights
on our left all across the great road, appeared before them. Seized with astonishment, these
stragglers halted; they had looked for nothing of the kind, and at first were inclined to believe
that relentless fate had traced upon the snow between them and Europe, that long, black, and
motionless line as the fatal term assigned to their hopes.

Some of them, stupified and rendered insensible by the misery of their situation, with their
eyes mentally fixed on home, and pursuing mechanically and obstinately that direction, would
listen to no warning, and were about to surrender; the others collected together, and on both
sides there was a pause, in order to consider each other's force. Several officers, who then
came up, put these disbanded soldiers in some degree of order; seven or eight riflemen, whom
they sent forward, were sufficient to break through that threatening curtain.

The French were smiling at the audacity of this idle demonstration, when all at once, from
the heights on their left, an enemy's battery began firing. Its bullets crossed the road; at
the same time thirty squadrons showed themselves on the same side, threatening the Westphalian
corps which was advancing, the commander of which was so confused, that he made no disposition
to meet their attack.

A wounded officer, unknown to these Germans, and who was there by mere chance, called out to
them with an indignant voice, and immediately assumed their command. The men obeyed him as
they would their own leader. In this case of pressing danger the differences of convention
disappeared. The man really superior having shown himself, acted as a rallying point to the
crowd, who grouped themselves around him, while the general-in-chief remained mute and confounded,
receiving with docility the impulse the other had given, and acknowledging his superiority,
which, after the danger was over, he disputed, but of which he did not, as too often happens,
seek to revenge himself.

This wounded officer was Excelmans! In this action he was every thing, general, officer, soldier,
even an artilleryman, for he actually laid hold of a cannon that had been abandoned, loaded
and pointed it, and made it once more be of use against our enemies. As to the commander of
the Westphalians, after this campaign, his premature and melancholy end makes us presume that
excessive fatigue and the consequences of some severe wounds had already affected him mortally.

On seeing this leading column marching in such good order, the enemy confined itself to attacking
it with their bullets, which it despised, and soon left behind it. When it came to the turn
of the grenadiers of the old guard to pass through this fire, they closed their ranks around
Napoleon like a moveable fortress, proud of having to protect him. Their band of music expressed
this pride. When the danger was greatest, they played the well-known air, "Où peut-on être
mieux qu'au sein de sa famille!" (Where can we be happier than in the bosom of our family!)
But the Emperor, whom nothing escaped, stopped them with an exclamation, "Rather play, Veillons
au salut de l'Empire!" (Let us watch for the safety of the empire!) words much better suited
to his pre-occupation, and to the general situation.

At the same time, the enemy's fire becoming troublesome, he gave orders to silence it, and
in two hours after he reached Krasnoë. The sight of Sebastiani, and of the first grenadiers
who preceded him, had been sufficient to drive away the enemy's infantry. Napoleon entered
in a state of great anxiety, from not knowing what corps had been attacking him, and his cavalry
being too weak to enable them to get him information, out of reach of the high road. He left
Mortier and the young guard a league behind him, in this way stretching out from too great
a distance a hand too feeble to assist his army, and determined to wait for it.

The passage of his column had not been sanguinary, but it could not conquer the ground as it
did the enemy; the road was hilly; at every eminence cannon were obliged to be left behind
without being spiked, and baggage, which was plundered before it was abandoned. The Russians
from their heights saw the whole interior of the army, its weaknesses, its deformities, its
most shameful parts: in short, all that is generally concealed with the greatest care.

Notwithstanding, it appeared as if Miloradowitch, from his elevated position, was satisfied
with merely insulting the passage of the Emperor, and of that old guard which had been so long
the terror of Europe. He did not dare to gather up its fragments until it had passed on; but
then he became bold, concentrated his forces, and descending from the heights, took up a strong
position with twenty thousand men, quite across the high road; by this movement he separated
Eugene, Davoust, and Ney from the Emperor, and closed the road to Europe against these three
leaders.

CHAP. IV.

While he was making these preparations, Eugene was using all his efforts at Smolensk to collect
his scattered troops; with great difficulty he tore them from the plunder of the magazines,
and he did not succeed in rallying eight thousand men until late on the 15th of November. He
was obliged to promise them supplies of provisions, and to show them the road to Lithuania,
in order to induce them to renew their march. Night compelled him to halt at three leagues
distance from Smolensk; the half of his soldiers had already left their ranks. Next morning
he continued his march, with all that the cold of the night and of death had not fastened round
their bivouacs.

The noise of the cannon which they had heard the day before had ceased; the royal column was
advancing with difficulty, adding its own fragments to those which it encountered. At its head,
the viceroy and the chief of his staff, buried in their own melancholy reflections, gave the
reins to their horses. Insensibly they left their troop behind them, without being sensible
of it; for the road was strewed with stragglers and men marching at their pleasure, the idea
of keeping whom in order had been abandoned.

In this way they advanced to within two leagues of Krasnoë, but then a singular movement which
was passing before them attracted their absent looks. Several of the disbanded soldiers had
suddenly halted; those who followed as they came up, formed a group with them; others who had
advanced farther fell back upon the first; they crowded together; a mass was soon formed. The
viceroy surprised, then looked about him; he perceived that he had got the start of the main
body of his army by an hour's march: that he had about him only fifteen hundred men of all
ranks, of all nations, without organization, without leaders, without order, without arms ready
or fit for an engagement, and that he was summoned to surrender.

This summons was answered by a general cry of indignation! But the Russian flag of truce, who
presented himself singly, insisted: "Napoleon and his guard," said he to them, "have been beaten;
you are surrounded by twenty thousand Russians: you have no means of safety but in accepting
honourable conditions, and these Miloradowitch proposes to you."

At these words, Guyon, one of the generals whose soldiers were either all dead or dispersed,
rushed from the crowd, and with a loud voice called out, "Return immediately to whence you
came, and tell him who sent you, that if he has twenty thousand men, we have eighty thousand!"
The Russian, confounded, immediately retired.

All this happened in the twinkling of an eye; in a moment after the hills on the left of the
road were spouting out lightning and whirlwinds of smoke; showers of shells and grape-shot
swept the high road, and threatening advancing columns showed their bayonets.

The viceroy hesitated for a moment; it grieved him to leave that unfortunate troop, but at
last, leaving his chief of the staff with them, he returned back to his divisions, in order
to bring them forward to the combat, to make them get beyond the obstacle before it became
insurmountable, or to perish; for with the pride derived from a crown and so many victories,
it was not to be expected that he could ever admit the thought of surrender.

