'Why, what has he to do with it?' Soane asked, curiously.

'He--he had an accident the other night,' Mr. Thomasson answered. 'A monstrous nuisance for
him. He and his noble friend, Lord Almeric Doyley, played a little trick on a--on one of the
College servants. The clumsy fellow--it is marvellous how awkward that class of persons is--fell
down the stairs and hurt himself.'

'Seriously?'

'Somewhat. Indeed--in fact he is dead. And now there is a kind of feeling about it in the town.
I persuaded Mr. Dunborough to take up his quarters here for the night, but he is so spirited
he would dine abroad. Now I fear, I really fear, he may be in trouble!'

'If it is he they are hooting in St. Aldate's,' Sir George answered drily, 'I should say he
was in trouble! But in my time the gownsmen would have sallied out and brought him off before
this. And given those yelpers a cracked crown or two!'

The roar of voices in the narrow streets was growing clearer and more threatening. 'Ye-es?'
said the Reverend Frederick, moving about the room, distracted between his anxiety and his
respect for his companion. 'Perhaps so. But there is a monstrous low, vulgar set in College
nowadays; a man of spirit has no chance with them. Yesterday they had the insolence to break
into my noble friend's rooms and throw his furniture out of window! And, I vow, would have
gone on to--but Lord! this is frightful! What a shocking howling! My dear sir, my very dear
Sir George,' Mr. Thomasson continued, his voice tremulous and his fat cheeks grown on a sudden
loose and flabby, 'do you think that there is any danger?'

'Danger?' Sir George answered, with cruel relish--he had gone to the window, and was looking
out. 'Well, I should say that Madam Venus there would certainly have to stand shot. If you
are wise you will put out some of those candles. They are entering the lane now. Gad, Tommy,
if they think your lad of spirit is here, I would not give much for your window-glass!'

Mr. Thomasson, who had hastened to take the advice, and had extinguished all the candles but
one, thus reducing the room to partial darkness, wrung his hands and moaned for answer. 'Where
are the proctors?' he said. 'Where are the constables? Where are the--Oh, dear, dear, this
is dreadful!'

And certainly, even in a man of firmer courage a little trepidation might have been pardoned.
As the unseen crowd, struggling and jostling, poured from the roadway of St. Aldate's into
the narrow confines of Pembroke Lane, the sound of its hooting gathered sudden volume, and
from an intermittent murmur, as of a remote sea, swelled in a moment into a roar of menace.
And as a mob is capable of deeds from which the members who compose it would severally shrink,
as nothing is so pitiless, nothing so unreasoning, so in the sound of its voice is a note that
appals all but the hardiest. THE THIRTEENTH NOUELL.

Tvllie in the firste booke of his Offices, saieth, that very miserable, is ambicion and desire
of honour: and that moste men, whiche be giuen to cupiditie of gouernement, honor and glorie,
bee forgetfull of Iustice. The truthe of whiche graue wordes, vttred by a Prince of eloquence, the
rude and barbarous Ambassadours of Scythia, in plaine and homelie talke, boldly did pronounce
to king Alexander (surnamed Magnus) when hee was about to inuade
their countrie.

For when he had within three dayes finished twelue thousand boates, to transporte his armie
ouer the famous ryuer of Tanais, (whiche deuideth Asia from Europa) against the poore Scythians,
twenty Ambassadours of the Scythians came to Alexanders campe to
speake with hym, to proue if they coulde by woordes withdrawe his
entended purpose: Before whome when they were placed, the eldest of
them spake these wordes.“ If the Goddes had giuen thee a bodie according
to the immoderate desyre of thy mynde, the whole worlde coulde not
be able to holde thee.

With one of thy handes thou wouldest touche the Oriente, and with thy other hande the Occidente.
And when thou haste gotten that, thou wylt desyre to knowe, where
the brightnesse of the Diuine Maiestie is placed.

Thus thou couetest after the thing, thou art not able to receyue. Out of Europa thou marchest into
Asia, and out of Asia thou passest into Europa. Afterwardes, if thou doest vanquishe all mankynde,
thou must make warre with woodes and Snowes, with Ryuers and wylde beastes. What? doest thou
not knowe, that great trees growe long, and yet be rooted out of the grounde in a moment?
He is a foole that looketh after the fruite, and doeth not measure
the height of the tree wheron it groweth.

Take hede lest whyle thou doest contende to clymme to the toppe, thou fallest downe with the bowes
whiche thou doest imbrace.

The lion also sometyme is made the foode of the smalest byrdes: and rust consumeth iron. There is
nothing so firme, that is not in perill of the weake.

What haue we to doe with thee? We neuer touched thy lande. What thou arte, and from whence thou commest,
is it not lawefull for vs to bee ignoraunte, that liue in the waste wooddes? Wee can not be subiecte
to any man, and wee desyre not to rule. Wee haue certaine giftes peculiar vnto vs, bicause thou
shalt not be ignoraunte of the state of our nacion: the yoke of Oxen,
the Plough, the Darte, and the Bowl: those things we vse, both with
our frends and against our enemies.

Vnto our frendes wee giue the fruictes, gotten with the labour of
our Oxen.

And with them in our Bowle, we sacrifice wine to the Goddes. Our enemies we strike with the Darte
a farre of, and with the Speare nere at hande. After that sorte in tyme paste, wee ouercame the
kyng of Scythia, and afterwardes the kyng of Media and Persia, and
the waye was open vnto vs into Ægipt. But thou whiche doest boaste,
that thou art come to persecute theues, art the common thefe of all
nacions, whereunto thou makest thy repayre.

The countrie of Lidia thou haste taken. Thou haste enioyed Syria. Thou doest possesse Persia,
and the Bactrianes bee vnder thy power. Thou doest goe into India, and nowe thou extendest thy
vnstable and gredie handes vppon our cattell. What neede haste thou of those ryches, whiche doe make
thee so hungrie? Thou art the first of all men whiche with sacietie hast gotten famine, that
the more thou hast, the more gredely thou couetest after thinges thou hast not. Doest thou not
remember how long thou hast sticked about Bactria? And whiles thou goest about to bring them in subiection,
the Sogdians begin to reuolte. Thus warre doth grow vnto thee of thy victorie. For be thou neuer
so great, and puissant ouer other, yet there be none that can indure to be gouerned by straungers.
Passe nowe Tanais, thou shalt perceiue what breadth it beareth, and
yet thou shalt neuer ouertake the Scythians, whose pouertie is swifter
then the armie, which carieth the spoyle of so many nacions.

For when thou shalt thinke vs to be farre of, thou shalt see vs within thy campe, with like swiftnesse
we folowe and flee awaye. I heare that our desertes and voide places, be mocked by the Greeke
prouerbes, we couet rather those desertes and places vnhabited, then
cities and plentifull soyles.

Therefore holde fast thy fortune, for she is tickle and can not be holden against her will. Folow
thou the counsaile that is good, specially whyles the time doth serue. Bridle thy felicitie, and
thou shalt rule it the better. Our countriemen say, that Fortune
is without feete, and that she hath onely handes and wynges, but
when she stretcheth forth her hand, shee will not suffer her winges
to be touched.

Finally, if thou be a God thou oughtest to geue benefites to mortall men, and not to take away
the commodities they haue already: but if thou bee a man, consider that thou art alway the same that thou
arte. It is a foolishe part to remember those things, and to forget thy selfe. Those people that fele
not thy warres, thou maiest use as thy frendes. For frendship is most
firme and stable emonges equall, and those seeme to be equall that
haue not vsed force and violence emonges them selues.

Beware thou take them not for thy frendes whome thou doest subdue, and bring in obedience. There is
no frendship betwene the maister and the seruaunt, and in peace the lawe of Armes is obserued.
Beleue not that the Scythians doe bynde frendship with any othe: for they make their othe by obseruation
of faith. The maner of the Greekes is to iustifie their factes, by inuocation of their Goddes
to witnesse: but wee know, that Religion consisteth in faith her
self. They which do not reuerence to men, do begile the Goddes. Thou
hast no nede of him to be thy frende of whose frendship thou standest
in doubt.

Thou hast vs as kepers of Asia and Europa: for we should touche the countrie of Bactria, were
it not for Tanais, whiche deuideth vs. And beyonde Tanais all is ours so farre as Thracia,
and the fame is that Thracia bordreth vppon Macedonia: wee being neighbours,
to bothe thy dominions, chose nowe whether thou wylte haue vs frendes
or foes.” These were the woordes of the Scythians.

Howe be it these homelie and plaine aduertisementes, could not diuerte
kyng Alexander from his intended enterpryse, and according to his
desired successe, he ouercame them.

THE FOURTEENTH NOUELL. The woordes of Metellus of mariage, and wiuing with the prayse and
dispraise of the same. In the presence of many learned men of Rome, Metellus surnamed Numidicus,
for his victories and triumphe ouer Iugurtha king of Numidia, a countrie in Africa, in the tyme
of his office of Censor, made an Oration before the Romain people,
of mariage of wyues, vppon Occasion that hee hymselfe, by diuers
of his frendes, was perswaded to that state.

Against whiche hee used manye vehemente inuectiues and termes, whiche Aulus Gellius omitteth, for that
hee was loth to offend (when report therof should be bruted) the nice eares, and louing mindes
of the matrones, and dames of that citie: knowing well that both they, and their successours,
would not forget reprochefullie to combate with his spirite and shadowe,
when they were not able (being preuented by earthly vermine) by anye
meanes to impeche his corps, in tombe fast closed and buried. But
when I do remember, howe the same was said, and also noysed emongs
a bande of heathen soules, whose mindes for want of godly skill, could
not disgest such hainous blastes, as sounded in a time prophane, wherin
no sacred voyce of christian lore was breathed vnto redemed flocke:
I call to mynde that now I may in time of grace, right frankely write,
without offence to humble state of matrone kinde, in these our daies,
inspired with spirit of humble hart, whose eares no taunting talke
can griue: wherefore with blushles face, and vnstaied penne, I meane
the woordes, of that well learned wighte, in open audience to pronounce,
and by this booke, to suche elected sort for to declame: but loth
for to offende, as one well bet in mariage schole, I must, a pœna&
culpa, forgiuenes craue: lest some shreude heathen dame (for other
doubt I not) doe from her graue Al’ Arme crie out: and then to fight
with buried ghostes: my manhode will not serue, but by and by with
posting legges, and flying fast I will retire.

But doubtes here be brought foorth, where doubting cause is none. Gellius therfore in persone of the vnmaried
knight, in wordes right fewe, this sentence of the maried state,
doth vtter and proclayme.“ O ye Romaines, if we could be without wiues,
then all we should wante that griefe.

But bicause nature hath so prouided, that neither with them we can
liue and passe our time conueniently, nor yet by any meanes be without
them satisfied, we ought rather to make preparation, for perpetuall
health, then for short pleasure.” With which wordes, diuers of the
Romaines were displeased, and founde fault with Metellus who (for
that he went about, to exhorte the people to mariage) ought not by
any meanes, to confesse any griefes and incommodities to be in the
same.

But in these wordes he seemed rather to disswade and terrefie, then
to perswade and incourage; but contrarely he ought, rather to haue
affirmed no sorowes and perplexities, to be in wedlocke, and if perchaunce
any chaunced to be, they were but light, and easie to be borne and
suffered, which for greater commodities and pleasures, might full
well be forgotten, and those that were, happed not through natures
vice, but by the default and ill behauiour of some maried folke.

Howbeit, Titus Castritius supposed that Metellus spake well and worthely.“
For (said he) a Censor ought to speake like a Censor, a Rhetorician like
one that professed Rhetorike: it is giuen to Rhetoricians, to vse false
sentences, bolde, subtile and captious: if so be, they be likely, and may
by any action moue the hartes of men.” Moreouer he sayde,“ that it
was a shame for a Rhetorician, in an euil matter, to leaue out any
thing vntouched.”“ But truely Metellus (quoth he) is a holy man indued
with grauitie and fidelitie, and that it was not decent for so honorable
a personage, as he was, to speake any thing to the Romaine people,
but that hee thought to be true, and likely to seme true to all men:
specially sithe he intreated of such a matter, as by daily knowledge,
common experience, and frequented vse of life, might well be comprehended
and knowen.

Therfore in geuing to vnderstande, a griefe notorious to al men, he hath deserued by that oration,
a fame of a diligent and faithfull man, bicause (to be short) he easely and redely perswaded,
that a citie can not prosper and continue, without the vse of Matrimonie,
which of all things is most assured and true.” This Titus Castritius
was a teacher of Rhetorike in Rome, and in the same citie for declamation
and teaching, was in greatest reputacion: a man of right great grauitie
and authoritie: and of the Emperour Adrian, for his vertue and learning
well estemed.

THE FIFTEENTH NOUELL. Of Lais and Demosthenes. Phocion a peripatetique Philosopher, in a booke which
he made, intituled Cornucopia, writeth this historie of Demosthenes
and Lais the harlot of Corinthe, saying: that Lais by reason of her
excellent beautie, and pleasaunt fauour, demaunded for the vse of her
body, a great somme of money: vnto whom was resorte of all the ryche
men of Græcia: but she woulde not admitte them to that facte, except
they would first giue vnto her, her demaunde. The quantitie of whiche somme
was exceading greate, whereof rose the prouerbe. Non cuiuis homini contingit,
adire Corinthum. Not euery man can well attaine To goe to Corinthe towne.
He that traueiled to Corinthe to Lais, not able to giue and bestowe,
that somme vpon her went in vaine. To this woman that noble Philosopher
Demosthenes secretly repayred, praying her to giue him leaue: but
shee demaunding of him tenne thousand Denarios (amounting very nere to three
hundred pounde of our money) astonied at the wantonnesse of the woman,
and discouraged with the greatnesse of the somme, retourned backe
again, saying: I come not to buye repentaunce so dere.

THE SIXTEENTH NOUELL.

When Pyrrhus king of Epirus inferred warres vpon the Romaynes and was come into Italie, and
there had prosperously fought, and atchieued the victory of two or
three battailes, wherby the Romanes were brought to great distresse
and most part of Italie had reuolted: one Timochares Ambraciensis,
a frend of king Pyrrhus, secretely repaired to C. Fabritius then Consul,
and told him, if he would giue him a reward, he would poyson the kinge,
which hee said, he mighte easely bringe to passe because his sonnes,
at table waited vpon king Pyrrhus cuppe.

Hereof Fabritius wrote to the Senate requiring their aduise. The Senate depeached Ambassadours
to the king commaunding them to saye nothing of Timochares, but to giue
the kinge warning circumspectly to loke wel about him, to preuent such
treason, as by those that were nerest him might be attempted. Thus much
is written in the historie of Valerius Antiates. But Quadrigarius in the third
booke, writeth that it was one Nicias and not Timochares, that went to
Fabritius, and that those Ambassadours were not sente by the Senate, but
by the Consuls, and that the kinge rendred praise and thanckes to
the Romaines, restoring to them, all the prisoners, which he had
taken.

The Consuls that time were C. Fabritius and Æmilius. The tenour of which letters then sent to king Pyrrhus, the
said Cl. Quadrigarius affirmeth to be this.“ The Romaine Consuls send salutations to king Pyrrhus.
We for thine iniuries, displeasures and wronges iustlie offended,
for the valiaunte stomackes remayninge in vs, do studie and indeuour
like enemies, to continue warres vpon thee: but it seemeth good vnto
vs for the loue we beare to our faith, and for common example, to
wishe thee well to do, whom by armes we be not able to vanquishe.

There came vnto vs one Nicias, thy familiar frende, to demaunde rewarde of vs, if secretely
he did kill thee: whiche we vtterlye denied, and required him for
that fact, to loke for no reward at our hands. Whereupon wee thought good
to giue thee aduertisement hereof, lest if any such thing did chaunce,
the cities should not thincke that we were priuie to the fact: for
wee delite not to fight with giftes, rewards and treason.-- Thou in
the meane time, except thou take heede, art like to die: Farewel.” This
was the aunciente order amonges the Romaines, that neuer were pleased
by the cowardly ouerthrow of other, to winne fame and glorye. And
because I rede an other excellente historie of the same Fabritius, I
haue thought good to adde the same to this Nouell. When peace was concluded,
betwene the Romaines and the Samnites, the Ambassadours of the Samnites repaired
vppon a time to this Fabritius, who after they had remembred vnto
him diuers and sundrie thinges, frendlye done in their behalfe, they
offered vnto him for reward, a great summe of money, intreating him
to receiue the same: which the Samnites did (as the report was) because
they sawe, that he wanted many thinges, for the furniture of his house
and maintenaunce, thinking the same also not to be sufficiently decente
for his estate and calling: which Fabritius perceyuing, with his bare
handes, hee touched his eares and eyes, and then strooked his face
downeward, his noase, his mouth and throate, and the rest of his bodie,
to the bottome of his bealie, answearing the Ambassadours in this
wise.“ That whiles hee was able to rule and gouerne all those members
which he touched, he was sure to lacke nothing: wherefore (quoth he)
these members, which be profitable and necessarye for my vse, will
not suffer mee to receiue this moneye, whereof they knowe I haue no
neede.” Hereby reprehending the foolish indeuour of these Samnites,
in offring to him a bribe, which hee was neur accustomed to take for
any cause, what soeuer he accomplished.

Who stil shewed himselfe a man sincere and incorrupt. THE SEUENTEENTH NOUELL. Warres were addressed
by the Romaines against the Falisques (a people of Italye, the ruines of the chiefe citie wherof
do yet appeare sixe miles from Viterba) and an armye conscribed and sent
thether, vnder the conduct of Furius Camillus. The Falisques vppon the
approch of the Romaines, were constrayned to retire within their citie, thinking
the same to be their most assured refuge. And they to continue their siege,
incamped a mile from the citie, and determined throughly to besiege it,
which in deede had like to haue beene of verye long continuance except
fortune had giuen to the Romaine Captaine, for his tried and well
approued valiaunce, victorie in time, which chaunced after this maner.

It was a custome amonges the Falisques (obserued also in these oure
dayes) to haue their children instructed by one Scholemaister, and
him also to vse for their guide and companion in all games and pastimes.

Amonges theym there was a Scholemaister, which taughte noble mennes
sonnes, who in the time of peace, teachinge those children, and vsinge
for theyr exercise to leade them abroade in the fieldes, kepte still
that order, for all the warres before the gates, sometime wyth shorte
walkes, sometime wyth longer for their disportes: and continuinge
varietie of talke wyth his schollers longer then he was wont to do,
at length he brought them to the Romaine campe, euen to the tent of
Camillus, hoping thereby (by like) to haue beene well welcomed, and
liberally rewarded: saying to Camillus, as detestable woords as the
facte was traiterous and wicked: which was in effect--“ That he was
come with that present vnto him, to yelde those children into his
hands whose parents were the principall of that Citie: and therby
knew for certainty that the citie would surrender.” Camillus seeing
that fact, and hearing those words, said vnto him.“ Thou arte not
come (villane) to a people and Captaine, with this thy trayterous
offer, semblable to thy selfe.

We haue no aliaunce with the Falisques confirmed by compacte or humaine promise, but amitie wherunto nature
doth bind vs, is and shall be for euermore betweene vs. Warre so well as peace, hath his law and right:
which we haue learned to obserue with no lesse Justice, then constancie. We make no warre against
boies, whom wee spare, whensoeuer we inuade or take any cities: but against armed men we fight,
yea, and against such, as without offence, or prouocation of our partes, assailed the Romaines
campe at the siege of the Veiens.

Thou hast vanquished them so much as lyeth in thee, with a new kinde
of victorie atchieued by treason: but I will subdue them by pollicie
of the Romaines, by vertue, indeuour and armes, euen as I did the
Veiens.” When he had spoken those wordes, he caused this trayterous
scholemaister to be striped starke naked, and binding his handes behinde
him, deliuered him to the children, with roddes in their handes, to
whippe him home to the citie.

When hee was in this order retourned, the people of the citie flocked
together to see this sight.

Then the magistrates assembled in counsaile, vpon this straunge occasion, and where before they
were incensed with maruailous wrath and furie, rather desirous of vtter ouerthrow, then peace.
Now their mindes were quite altered, and peace vniuersally demaunded. The fidelitie of the Romaines,
and iustice of Camillus, both in Forum and Court was celebrated, and by general conformitie, Ambassadours
were sente into the campe to Camillus, and from thence by Camillus
sufferance, to the Senate of Rome, of purpose to yelde themselues
to their gouernment, who being brought before the Senate spake these
woordes.“ Wee (fathers conscripte) vanquished by you and your Captaine,
(where at neither God nor man oughte to be offended) haue yelded our
selues to you, thinking that wee shall liue more happie, and better
contented vnder your gouernmente, then by our owne lawes and liberties:
a thing that maketh the victor more glorious and praise worthie, then
anye other.

By the successe of these warres, two holsome examples bee manifested
to mankinde.

Ye doe preferre fayth in warres before certaine victorie, and we, induced by that faith, haue of our
owne accord, presented victorie unto you. We be at your commaundement: sende hither commissioners,
to receiue our weapons, our pledges and our citie, which standeth with the gates wide open. We hope
well, that neither ye shall haue occasion to be miscontented with oure fidelitie, nor wee offended
with your gouernment and Empyre.” For which facte greate thankes were
attributed to Camillus, both by the Falisques and Romaynes. Here appeared
the face and true Image of that greate vertue, Justice, wherewith
this noble man was truly affected.

His noble nature was not able to abide any trayterous fact, done by vnnaturall Citizens, toward their
owne countrie. No vngratitude of his owne countrie men, could withdrawe
his nature from the zeale and loue he bare to his countrie. His condempnation
by vnkinde Apuleius Saturninus the Tribune, for which he fledde to
Ardea, could not let or impeach his magnanimitie from giuinge the
Galles an ouerthrowe when they had sacked Rome, and sharpely besieged
the Capitole: who in his absence (created Dictator,) by gathering
together such Romaines as were fledde, vnwares set vpon the couetous
Galles, as they were in controuersie for paimente of a golden summe
of money, and thereby restored his countrie to libertie.

Wherefore worthely might he be intitled, with the honourable name of a second Romulus. For as Romulus
was the first builder and peopler of that citie, so was Camillus the vindicator and deliuerer
of the same. THE EIGHTEENTH NOUELL. The Historie of Papyrius Pratextatus. The same historie is written
by Cato, in an oration which he made to his souldiours against Galba,
contayninge in effecte as foloweth.

The Senatours of Rome vsed before this time, to enter into the Senate
house with their sonnes, Prætextatis, that is, in long robes garded
about the skirtes with purple silke.

When the Senate debated of graue and waightie matters, they euer
deferred the same till the next day, forbiddinge that those causes
should not be published, before they were throughly decreed.

The mother of this yong gentleman Papyrius, which had been with his
father in the Senate house, asked of him, what the fathers had done
in the Senate house that day?

Papyrius aunswered, that in any wise, he ought not to tell the secretes
of the same.

The mother more desirous to know then she was before, went about
by faire meanes, foule wordes and correction, to vnderstand the secretes
of the Senate, and the cause why the same were kept so silente. Wherefore
she more earnestlye endeuoured to learne the same of her sonne. The
yong man by compulsion of his mother, toke occasion to inuent a pleasaunt
and mery lie, in this wise.“ Mother (quoth he) the Senate doth deliberate
and consult, whether it be more commodious and profitable for the
common wealthe, that one man should haue two wiues, or whether one
wife shoulde haue two husbandes.” When the old Ladie heard this she
was abashed, and in fearefull wise goeth to the other Ladies and matrones
of Rome, tellinge them, where about their husbands did consult.

The next day the women flocked together in great traines, and in lamentable
wise repaired to the Senate, beseching them that one woman might rather
be maried to two husbands, then two wiues to one man.

The Senatours entring into the Court, marueyled what toyes were in the womens heads, to make that demaunde.
The yong gentleman Papyrius stepped foorth, declaring how importunate his mother was, to know
whereuppon they consulted the day before, and therefore he deuised that fained tale, to pacifie
her desire. The Senatours hearing and perceyuing his good and honeste disposition, greatly commended
and extolled his fidelity and witte. Howbeit, they made a lawe that from that time forth, none of
their sonnes should come into the house with their father, but onely Papyrius. Who afterwardes receiued
the surname of Prætextatus, to honour and beautifie his name, for his notable wysedome in keeping secretes,
and holding his peace, in the time of that youthly age. THE NINETEENTH NOUELL. Avlus Gellius
demaunding of the Philosopher Taurus, whether a wise man could be
angrie? Taurus after he had disputed much of that affection, turned
to Gellius and said:“ This is mine opinion of the angrie man: but what
the Philosopher Plutarche iudgeth thereof, I thincke it not a misse to
tell thee. Plutarche had a bondman which was an vnthrift and wicked verlet,
but geuen to learning and to disputation of Philosophie, whom vppon
a time he did beate, making him to put of his coate, and to be whipped,
for what offence I know not: he began to beate him: the fellow cryed
out, that he had deserued no cause, why he ought to be so beaten. Estcombe
is dipped: and of the money I raised, there is no more at the agent's than I have lost in a
night at Quinze! D----n White's and that is all about it. And d----n it, I shall, and finely,
if old Anthony's lad turn up and sweep off the three thousand a year that is left. Umph, if
I am to have a steady hand to-morrow I must get to bed. What unholy chance brought me into
this scrape?'

CHAPTER V

THE MEETING

Sir George awoke next morning, and, after a few lazy moments of semi-consciousness, remembered
what was before him, it is not to be denied that he felt a chill. He lay awhile, thinking of
the past and the future--or the no future--in a way he seldom thought, and with a seriousness
for which the life he had hitherto led had left him little time and less inclination.

But he was young; he had a digestion as yet unimpaired, and nerves still strong; and when he
emerged an hour later and, more soberly dressed than was his wont, proceeded down the High
Street towards the Cherwell Bridge, his spirits were at their normal level. The spring sunshine
which gilded the pinnacles of Magdalen tower, and shone cool and pleasant on a score of hoary
fronts, wrought gaily on him also. The milksellers and such early folk were abroad, and filled
the street with their cries; he sniffed the fresh air, and smiled at the good humour and morning
faces that everywhere greeted him; and d----d White's anew, and vowed to live cleanly henceforth,
and forswear Pam. All the rest was convulsive despair and darkness. Thought shudders at it-- but
let me go on, [He visits the murderer in prison, accompanied by the
clergyman.] I undertook to pass with the murderer-- his LAST NIGHT--
such a last!-- but let me compose myself.

Soane did not know whether the attorney had preceded him or followed him: the intrusion was
the same, and flushed with annoyance, he strode to him to mark his sense of it. But Peter,
being addressed, wore his sharpest business air, and was entirely unconscious of offence. 'I
have merely purveyed a surgeon,' he said, indicating a young man who stood beside him. 'I could
not learn that you had provided one, sir.'

'Oh!' Sir George answered, somewhat taken aback, 'this is the gentleman.'

'Yes, sir.'

Soane was in the act of saluting the stranger, when a party of two or three persons came up
behind, and had much ado not to jostle them in the gateway. It consisted of Mr. Dunborough,
Lord Almeric, and two other gentlemen; one of these, an elderly man, who wore black and hair-powder,
and carried a gold-topped cane, had a smug and well-pleased expression, that indicated his
stake in the meeting to be purely altruistic. The two companies exchanged salutes.

On this followed a little struggle to give precedence at the gate, but eventually all went
through. 'If we turn to the right,' some one observed, 'there is a convenient place. No, this
way, my lord.'

'Oh Lord, I have such a head this morning!' his lordship answered; and he looked by no means
happy. "Yes," said the girl, "very, indeed."

"He seemed to be lecturing you about something, from what I saw," added the other. The remark
was far from being in the best taste, but it pleased Helen, because it went to justify her to
herself, and at the same time offered her an opportunity to vent
her feelings.

"Yes," she said. "It was about music; he was very much displeased
with me."

"So!" exclaimed Mr. Harrison.

"I hope you do not let that disturb you?"

"No," said the girl, laughing,-- "or at any rate, I shall soon recover my equanimity. It is
very hard to please a man who plays himself, you know."

"Or who says he plays," observed Mr. Harrison.

"He didn't play, you notice."

Helen was pleased to fancy that there might be wisdom in the remark.

"Let us change the subject," she said more cheerfully. "It is best to forget things that make
one feel uncomfortable."

"I'll leave the finding of a new topic to you," replied the other, with graciousness which did
a little more to restore Helen's self-esteem. "I have a very humble
opinion of my own conversation."

"Do
you like mine?" the girl asked with a laugh.

"I do, indeed," said Mr. Harrison with equally pleasing frankness. "I was as interested as could
be in the story that you were telling me when we were stopped."

"Well, we'll begin where we left off!" exclaimed Helen, and felt as if she had suddenly discovered
a doorway leading from a prison. She found it easy to forget the recent events after that,
and Mr. Harrison grew more tolerable to her every moment now that
the other was gone; her self-possession came back to her quickly as
she read his admiration in his eyes.

Besides that, it was impossible to forget for very long that Mr. Harrison was a multi-millionaire,
and the object of the envious glances of every other girl in the
room; and so when Aunt Polly returned a while later she found the
conversation between the two progressing very well, and in fact almost
as much enjoyed by both as it had been the first time.

After waiting a few minutes she came to ask Helen to sing for the company, a treat which she had
reserved until the last.

Helen's buoyant nature had by that time flung all her doubts behind
her, and this last excitement was all that was needed to sweep her
away entirely again.

She went to the piano as exulting as ever in her command of it and
in the homage which it brought her.

She sang an arrangement of the "Preislied," and she sang it with
all the energy and enthusiasm she possessed; partly because she had
a really good voice and enjoyed the song, and partly because an audience
appreciates singing more easily than any other kind of music.

She really scored the success of the evening. Everybody was as enthusiastic as the limits of
good taste allowed, and Helen was compelled, not in the least against
her will, to sing again and again.

While she was laughing with happiness and triumph, something brought,
back "Wohin" to her mind, and she sang it again, quite as gaily as
she had sung it by the streamlet with Arthur.

It was enough to delight even the dullest, and perhaps if Mr. Howard
had been there even he would have applauded a little.

At any rate, as Helen rose from the piano she received a complete ovation, everyone coming to her
to thank her and to praise her, and to share in the joy of her beauty;
she herself had never been more radiant and more exulting in all her
exulting life, drinking in even Mr. Harrison's rapturous compliments
and finding nothing exaggerated in them.

And in the meantime, Aunt Polly having suggested a waltz to close the festivities, the furniture
was rapidly moved to one side, and the hostess herself took her seat
at the piano and struck up the "Invitation to the Dance;"

Mr. Harrison, who had been at Helen's side since her singing had ceased, was of course her partner,
and the girl, flushed and excited by all the homage she had received, was soon waltzing delightedly
in his arms. The man danced well, fortunately for him, and that he was the beautiful girl's ardent
admirer was by this time evident, not only to Helen, but to everyone
else.

In the mood that she was then, the fact was as welcome to her as it could possibly have been, and
when, therefore, Mr. Harrison kept her arm and begged for the next
dance, and the next in turn, Helen was sufficiently carried away to
have no wish to refuse him; when after the third dance she was tired
out and sat down to rest, Mr. Harrison was still her companion.

Helen was at the very height of her happiness then, every trace of her former vexation gone,
and likewise every trace of her objections to the man beside her. The music was still sounding
merrily, and everyone else was dancing, so that her animation did not seem at all out of taste;
and so brilliant and fascinating had she become, and so completely enraptured was Mr. Harrison,
that he would probably have capitulated then and there if the dancing had not ceased and the company
separated when it did. The end of all the excitement was a great disappointment to Helen; she
was completely happy just then, and would have gone just as far as
the stream had carried her.

It being her first social experience was probably the reason that she was less easily wearied than
the rest; and besides, when one has thus yielded to the sway of the senses, he dreads instinctively
the subsiding of the excitement and the awakening of reason.

The awakening, however, is one that must always come; Helen, having sent away the maid, suddenly
found herself standing alone in the middle of her own room gazing at herself in the glass, and seeing
a frightened look in her eyes. The merry laughter of the guests ceased gradually, and silence
settled about the halls of the great house; but even then Helen did not move. She was standing
there still when her aunt came into the room.

Mrs. Roberts was about as excited as was possible in a matron of her age and dignity; she flung
her arms rapturously around Helen, and clasped her to her. "My dear," she cried, "it was a
triumph!"

"Yes, Auntie," said Helen, weakly.

"You dear child, you!" went on the other, laughing; "I don't believe you realize it yet! Do you know,
Helen, that Mr. Harrison is madly in love with you? You ought to
be the happiest girl in the land tonight!"

"Yes, Auntie," said Helen again, still more weakly.

"Come here, my dear," said Mrs. Roberts, drawing her gently over to the bed and sitting down beside
her; "you are a little dazed, I fancy, and I do not blame you. I should have been beside myself
at your age if such a thing had happened to me; do you realize, child, what a fortune like Mr.
Harrison's is?"

"No," said Helen, "it is very hard, Aunt Polly. I'm afraid about it; I must have some time to
think."

"Think!" laughed the other. "You queer child! My dear, do you actually mean that you could think
of refusing this chance of your lifetime?"

"I don't know," said Helen, trembling; "I don't--"

"Everybody'd think you were crazy, child! I know I should, for one." And she added, coaxingly, "Let
me tell you what Mr. Roberts said."

"What, Auntie?"

"He sent you in this message; he's a great person for doing generous things, when he takes it
into his head. He told me to tell you that if you'd accept Mr. Harrison's
offer he would give you the finest trousseau that he could buy.

Wasn't that splendid of him?"

"Yes," said Helen, "thank him for me;" and she shuddered.

"Don't talk to me any more about it now, tho," she pleaded. "Please don't, Aunt Polly. I was
so excited, and it was all like a dream, and I'm half dazed now;
I can't think about it, and I must think, somehow!

It's too dreadful!"

"You shan't think about it tonight, child," laughed the other, "for I want you to sleep and be
beautiful tomorrow. See," she added, beginning to unfasten Helen's dress, "I'm going to be your
little mother tonight, and put you to bed."

And so, soothing the girl and kissing her burning forehead and trying
to laugh away her fears, her delighted protectress undressed her,
and did not leave her until she had seen her in bed and kissed her
again.

"And promise me, child," she said, "that you won't worry yourself tonight. Go to sleep, and you'll
have time to think tomorrow."

Helen promised that she would; but she did not keep her promise. She heard the great clock in
the hallway strike many times, and when the darkest hours of the night had passed she was sitting
up in bed and gazing about her at the gray shadows in the room, holding
the covering tightly about her, because she was very cold; she was
muttering nervously to herself, half deliriously: "No, no, I will
not do it!

They shall not make me do it! I must have time to think."

And when at last she fell into a restless slumber, that thought was still in her mind, and those
words upon her lips: "I will not do it; I must have time to think!"

[Music: The opening passage of Beethoven's Appassionata Sonata.]
CHAPTER VI "And yet methinks I see it in thy face, What them shouldst
be: th'occasion speaks thee; and My strong imagination sees a crown
Dropping upon thy head."

When Helen awoke upon the following morning, the resolution to withstand
her aunt's urging was still strong within her; as she strove to bring
back the swift events of the night before, the first discovery she
made was a headache and a feeling of weariness and dissatisfaction
that was new to her.

She arose and looked in the glass, and seeing that she was pale, vowed again, "They shall not torment
me in this way!

I do not even mean that he shall propose to me; I must have time to realize it!" And so firm was she
in her own mind that she rang the bell and sent the maid to call her aunt. It was then only nine
o'clock in the morning, and Helen presumed that neither Mrs. Roberts nor any of the other guests
would be awake, they not being fresh from boarding school as she was; but the girl was so nervous
and restless, and so weighed upon by her urgent resolution, that she felt she could do nothing
else until she had declared it and gotten rid of the matter.

"I'm going to tell her once for all," she vowed; "they shall not torment me any more." It turned out,
however, that Mrs. Roberts had been up and dressed a considerable time,-- for a reason which,
when Helen learned it, prevented her delivering so quickly the speech she had upon her mind;
she noticed a worried expression upon her aunt's face as soon as
the latter came into the room. "What is the matter?" she asked, in some
surprise.

"A very dreadful misfortune, my dear," said Mrs. Roberts; "I don't
know how to tell you, you'll be so put out."

Helen was quite alarmed as she saw her aunt sink down into a chair; but then it flashed over
her that Mr. Harrison might have for some reason been called away. "What is it? Tell me!" she
asked eagerly. "It's Mr. Howard, my dear," said the other; and Helen
frowned. "Oh, bother!" she cried; "what about him?"

"He's been ill during the night," replied Aunt Polly.

"Ill!" exclaimed Helen. "Dear me, what a nuisance!" "Poor man," said
the other, deprecatingly; "he cannot help it."

"Yes," exclaimed Helen, "but he ought not to be here. What is the matter
with him?" "I don't know," was the reply, "but he has been suffering
so all night that the doctor has had to give him an opiate."

The wan countenance of Mr. Howard rose up before Helen just then,
and she shuddered inwardly.

"Dear me, what a state of affairs!" she exclaimed.

"It seems to me as if I were to have nothing but fright and worry.

Why should there be such things in the world?"

"I don't know, Helen," said the other, "but it is certainly inopportune
for you.

Of course the company will all have to leave."

"To leave!" echoed Helen; she had never once thought of that. "Why,
of course," said her aunt.

"It would not be possible to enjoy ourselves under such very dreadful circumstances." "But,
Aunt Polly, that is a shame!" cried the girl.

"The idea of so many people being inconvenienced for such a cause.
Can't he be moved?"

"The
doctor declares it would be impossible at present, Helen, and it would not look right anyway, you know.
He will certainly have to remain until he is better."

"And how long will that be?" "A week, or perhaps more," was the reply.
And Helen saw that her promised holiday was ruined; her emotions,
however, were not all of disappointment, for though she was vexed
at the interruptions, she recollected with sudden relief that she
could thus obtain, and without so much effort of her own, the time
to debate the problem of Mr. Harrison.

Also there was in her mind, if not exactly pity for the invalid,
at any rate the nearest to it that Helen had ever learned to feel,
an uncomfortable fright at the idea of such suffering.

"I promise you," said Aunt Polly, who had been watching her face
and trying to read her emotions, "that we shall only postpone the
good time I meant to give you.

You cannot possibly be more vexed about it than I, for I was rejoicing in your triumph with Mr. Harrison."
"I'm not worrying on that account," said Helen, angrily.

"Helen, dear," said Mrs. Roberts, pleadingly, "what can be the matter
with you?

I think anyone who was watching you and me would get the idea that
I was the one to whom the fortune is coming.

I suppose that was only one of your jokes, my dear, but I truly don't
think you show a realization of what a tremendous opportunity you
have.

You show much more lack of experience than I had any idea could be
possible."

"It isn't that, Aunt Polly," protested Helen; "I realize it, but
I want time to think."

"To think, Helen! But what is there to think?

It seems to be madness to trifle with such a chance." "Will it be trifling to keep him waiting a while?" asked
Helen, laughing in spite of her vexation. "Maybe not, my dear; but
you ought to know that every other girl in this house would snap him
up at one second's notice. If you'd only seen them watching you last
night as I did."

"I saw a little," was the reply. "But, Aunt Polly, is Mr. Harrison the only man whom I can
find?" "My husband and I have been over the list of our acquaintances,
and not found anyone that can be compared with him for an instant,
Helen.

We know of no one that would do for you that has half as much money."
"I never said he'd do for me," said Helen, again laughing. "Understand
me, Auntie," she added; "it isn't that I'd not like the fortune!

If I could get it without its attachment--" "But, my dear, you know you
can never get any wealth except by marriage; what is the use of talking
such nonsense, even in fun?"

"But, listen," objected Helen in turn; "suppose I don't want such
a great fortune-- suppose I should marry one of these other men?"

"Helen, if you only could know as much as I know about these things," said Mrs. Roberts, "if you
only could know the difference between being in the middle and at the top of the social ladder!
Dear, why will you choose anything but the best when you can have the best if you want it? I tell
you once for all I do not care how clever you are, or how beautiful you are, the great people will
look down on you for an upstart if you cannot match them and make
just as much of a show.

And why can you not discover what your own tastes are?

I watched you last night, child; anyone could have seen that you
were in your element!

You outshone everyone, Helen, and you should do just the same all
your life.

Can you not see just what that means to you?" "Yes, Auntie," said Helen,
"but then--"

"Were you not perfectly happy last night?" interrupted the other. "No,"
protested the other, "that's just what I was going to say."

"The only reason in the world why you are not, my dear, is that you
were tormenting yourself with foolish scruples.

Can you not see that if you once had the courage to rid yourself of them it would be all that
you need.

Why are you so weak, Helen?" "It is not weak!" exclaimed the other.
"Yes," asserted Mrs. Roberts, "I say it is weak.

It is weak of you not to comprehend what your life is to be, and
what you need for your happiness.

It is a shame for you to make no use of the glorious gifts that are
yours, and to cramp and hinder all your own progress.

I want you to have room to show your true powers, Helen!" Helen had been leaning over the foot of the
bed listening to her aunt, stirred again by all her old emotion,
and angry with herself for being stirred; her unspoken resolution
was not quite so steady as it had been, tho like all good resolutions
it remained in her mind to torment her.

She sprang up suddenly with a very nervous and forced laugh. "I'm glad I don't have to argue
with you, Auntie," she said, "and that I'm saved the trouble of worrying
myself ill. You see the Fates are on my side,-- I must have time to
think, whether I want to or not."

It was that comfort which saved her from further struggle with herself upon the subject. (Helen much
preferred being happy to struggling.) She set hurriedly to work to
dress, for her aunt told her that the guests were nearly ready for
breakfast.

"Nobody could sleep since all the excitement," she said. "I wonder it did not wake you." "I was
tired," said Helen; "I guess that was it." "You'll find the breakfast rather a sombre repast,"
added Mrs. Roberts, pathetically. "I've been up nearly three hours myself, so frightened about
poor Mr. Howard; I had neveer seen anyone so dreadfully ill, and I was quite certain he was in his death
agony." "Aunt Polly!" cried Helen with a sudden wild start, "why do you talk like that?" "I won't
say any more about it," was the reply, "only hurry up. And put on your best looks, my dear, for
Mr. Harrison to carry away in his memory." "I'll do that much with pleasure," was the answer; "and
please have the maid come up to pack my trunks again; for you won't
want me to stay now, of course."

"Oh, no," said Mrs. Roberts, "not unless you want to.

Our house won't be a very cheerful place, I fear."

"I'll come back in a week or two, when you are ready for me," Helen
added; "in the meantime I can be thinking about Mr. Harrison."

Helen was soon on her way downstairs, for it was terrifying to her to be alone and in the neighborhood of
Mr. Howard. She found a sombre gathering indeed, for the guests spoke to each other only in half-whispers,
and there were few smiles to be seen.

Helen found herself placed opposite Mr. Harrison at the table, and
she had a chance to study him by glances through the meal.

"He's well dressed, anyway," she mused, "and he isn't altogether bad.

I wonder if I'd dare to marry him." After breakfast Helen strolled out upon the piazza, perhaps with
some purpose in her mind; for it is not unpleasant to toy with a
temptation, even when one means to resist it.

At any rate, she was a little excited when she heard Mr. Harrison
coming out to join her there.

"Rather a sad ending of our little party, wasn't it, Miss Davis?" he said. "Yes," answered
the girl, "I feel so sorry for poor Mr. Howard." "He seemed to be rather
ill last night," said the other. He was going to add that the fact perhaps
accounted for the invalid's severity, but he was afraid of shocking
Helen by his levity,-- a not entirely necessary precaution, unfortunately.

"You are going back to town this morning, with the others?"

Helen asked. "No," said Mr. Harrison, somewhat to her surprise; "I have a different plan." "Good
Heavens, does he suppose he's going to stay here with me?" thought the girl. "I received your
aunt's permission to ask you," continued Mr. Harrison, "and so I need
only yours." "For what?"

Helen inquired, with varied emotions. "To drive you over to Oakdale with my rig," said the other.
"I had it brought down, you know, because I thought there might be
a chance to use it."

Helen had turned slightly paler, and was staring in front of her.
"Are you not fond of driving, then, Miss Davis?" asked the other,
as she hesitated.

"Yes," said Helen, "but I don't like to trouble you--"

"I assure you it will be the greatest pleasure in the world," said Mr. Harrison; "I only regret
that I shall not be able to see more of you, Miss Davis; it is only for the present, I hope."
"Thank you," said Helen, still very faintly.

"And I have a pair of horses that I am rather proud of," added Mr.
Harrison, laughing; "I should like you to tell me what you think of
them.

Will you give me the pleasure?" And Helen could not hesitate very
much longer without being rude.

"If you really wish it, Mr. Harrison," she said, "very well." And then someone else came out
on the piazza and cut short the conversation; Helen had no time to
think any more about the matter, but she had a disagreeable consciousness
that her blood was flowing faster again, and that her old agitation
was back in all its strength.

Soon afterwards
Mrs. Roberts came out and joined the two. "Miss Davis has granted me
the very great favor," said Mr. Harrison; "I fear I shall be happier
than I ought to be, considering what suffering I leave behind."

"It will do no good to worry about it," said Mrs. Roberts,
a reflection which often keeps the world from wasting its sympathy.

"I shall have your
carriage brought round." "Isn't it rather early to start?" asked Helen.
"I don't know," said her aunt; "is it?"

"We can take a little
drive if it is," said Mr. Harrison; "I mean that Miss Davis shall think
a great deal of my horses." Helen said nothing, but stood gazing in
front of her across the lawns, her mind in a tempest of emotions. She
could not put away from her the excitement that Mr. Harrison's presence
brought; the visions of wealth and power which gleamed before her almost
overwhelmed her with their vastness. But she had also the memory
of her morning resolve to trouble her conscience; the result was
the same confused helplessness, the dazed and frightened feeling which
she so rebelled against.

"I do not want
to be troubled in this way," she muttered angrily to herself, again
and again; "I wish to be let alone, so that I can be happy!" Yet there
was no chance just then for her to find an instant's peace, or time
for further thought; there were half a dozen people about her, and
she was compelled to listen to and answer commonplace remarks about
the beauty of the country in front of her, and about her singing on
the previous evening.

She had to stifle
her agitation as best she could, and almost before she realized it
her aunt had come to summon her to get ready for the drive.

Helen
hoped to have a moment's quiet then; but there was nothing to be
done but put on her hat and gloves, and Mrs. Roberts was with her
all the time.

"Helen," she
said pleadingly, as she watched the girl surveying herself in the
glass, "I do hope you will not forget all that I told you." "I wish
you would let me alone about it!" cried Helen, very peevishly. "If you
only knew, my dear girl, how much I have done for you," replied the
other, "and how I've planned and looked forward to this time, I don't
think you'd answer me in that way."

"It isn't that, Aunt Polly," exclaimed Helen,
"but I am so confused and I don't know what to think."

"I am trying my poor, humble best
to show you what to think.

And you could not possibly
feel more worried than I just now; Helen, you could be rid of all
these doubts and struggles in one instant, if you chose.

Ask yourself
if it is not true; you have only to give yourself into the arms of
the happiness that calls you.

And you never will get rid of the matter in any other way,-- indeed
you will not!

If
you should fling away this chance, the memory of it would never leave
you all your life; after you knew it was too late, you would torment
yourself a thousand times more than ever you can now."

"Oh, dear, dear!" cried Helen, half hysterically; "I can't
stand that, Aunt Polly.

I'll do anything, only let me alone! My head is aching to
split, and I don't know where I am."

"And you will never find another chance
like it, Helen," went on the other, with sledge-hammer remorselessness.

"For if you behave in this perfectly insane way and
lose this opportunity, I shall simply give you up in despair at your
perversity." "But I haven't said I was going to lose it," the girl
exclaimed.

"He won't be any the less in love with me if I make him wait, Aunt
Polly!--"

"Mr. Harrison
was going back to Cincinnati in a day or two," put in Mrs. Roberts, swiftly.
"He will stay if I wish him to," was the girl's reply. "There is no
need for so much worry; one would think I was getting old."

"Old!" laughed the other. You see, my dear,' he continued familiarly, 'we have each an excuse. But I am
not a hypocrite.'

'Why do you call me that?' she exclaimed; distress and shame at the mistake she had made contending
with her anger.

'Because, my pretty Methodist,' he answered coolly, 'your hate and your love are too near neighbours.
Cursing and nursing, killing and billing, come not so nigh one another in my vocabulary. But
with women--some women--it is different.'

Her cheeks burned with shame, but her eyes flashed passion. 'If I were a lady,' she cried,
her voice low but intense, 'you would not dare to insult me.'

'If you were a lady,' he retorted with easy insolence, 'I would kiss you and make you my wife,
my dear. In the meantime, and as you are not--give up nursing young sparks and go home to your
mother. Don't roam the roads at night, and avoid travelling-chariots as you would the devil.
Or the next knight-errant you light upon may prove something ruder than--Captain Berkeley!'

'You are not Captain Berkeley?'

'No.'

She stared at him, breathing hard. Then, 'I was a fool, and I pay for it in insult,' she said.

'Be a fool no longer then,' he retorted, his good-humour restored by the success of his badinage;
'and no man will have the right to insult you, ma belle.'

'I will never give you the right!' she cried with intention.

'It is rather a question of Mr. Dunborough,' he answered, smiling superior, and flirting his
spy-glass to and fro with his fingers. 'Say the same to him, and--but are you going, my queen?
What, without ceremony?'

'I am not a lady, and noblesse oblige does not apply to me,' she cried. And she closed the
door in his face--sharply, yet without noise.

He went down the stairs a step at a time--thinking. 'Now, I wonder where she got that!' he
muttered. 'Noblesse oblige! And well applied too!' Again, 'Lord, what beasts we men are!' he
thought. 'Insult? I suppose I did insult her; but I had to do that or kiss her. And she earned
it, the little firebrand!' Then standing and looking along the High--he had reached the College
gates--'D--n Dunborough! She is too good for him! For a very little--it would be mean, it would
be low, it would be cursed low--but for two pence I would speak to her mother and cheat him.
She is too good to be ruined by that coarse-tongued boaster! Though I suppose she fancies him.
I suppose he is an Adonis to her! Faugh! Tommy, my lord, and Dunborough! What a crew!'

The good and evil, spleen and patience, which he had displayed in his interview with the girl
rode him still; for at the door of the Mitre he paused, went in, came out, and paused again.
He seemed to be unable to decide what he would do; but in the end he pursued his way along
the street with a clouded brow, and in five minutes found himself at the door of the mean house
in the court, whence the porter of Pembroke had gone out night and morning. Here he knocked,
and stood. In a moment the door was opened, but to his astonishment by Mr. Fishwick.

Either the attorney shared his surprise, or had another and more serious cause for emotion;
for his perky face turned red, and his manner as he stood holding the door half-open, and gaping
at the visitor, was that of a man taken in the act, and thoroughly ashamed of himself. Sir
George might have wondered what was afoot, if he had not espied over the lawyer's shoulder
a round wooden table littered with papers, and guessed that Mr. Fishwick was doing the widow's
business--a theory which Mr. Fishwick's first words, on recovering himself, bore out.

'I am here--on business,' he said, cringing and rubbing his hands. 'I don't--I don't think
that you can object, Sir George.'

'I?' said Soane, staring at him in astonishment and some contempt. 'My good man, what has it
to do with me? You got my letter?'

'And the draft, Sir George!' Mr. Fishwick bowed low. 'Certainly, certainly, sir. Too much honoured.
Which, as I understood, put an end to any--I mean it not offensively, honoured sir--to any
connection between us?'

Sir George nodded. 'I have my own lawyers in London,' he said stiffly. Which the Lord hearing
could not abide that his death should any longer be respected, but
without other forme of Lawe, he was thrust out to the Lions, and was
presently seased vpon, and torne in peeces by those beastes, which
by God’ s iuste iudgement, did absteine from the good ladie, for the
punishement of the detestable sinne of this varlet.

In the meane time the chaste and innocent Ladie, being brought before her husbande, after he
had kissed and imbrased her, with humble reuerence she sayde vnto
him:“ My Lorde, I render my humble thankes to God, for that through
his holy grace, and inscrutable Iustice, he hath let you to vnderstande,
twoo diuers affections, in two seuerall persones of this worlde, which
you loue so well.

In one, the treason so pernicious, which prouoked you to soile and imbrue your handes (not
without cause till this daye proued contrarie) in the bloud of your
faithfull and dere beloued wife.

In thother, a will and minde so good to obey you, and to persist
in continuation of that effecte, which maketh her generally to be
praysed, and worthy of your earnest loue, for so much as she is your
very affectionate spouse.

Notwithstanding, iustly may I make my complaint of you, for that without excuse for my discharge,
or hearing any thing that might serue for my purgation, you condempned her, for whose honour and
defence you ought to haue imployed both goodes and life. But God shalbe iudge betwene your
litle discretion, and my righteousnesse, betwene mine obedience and your crueltie, wherewith
you haue abused the nobilitie, of the race whereof I came.” The husbande
hearing this wise and iust complaint, on the one side transported
with ioye, leapt and rejoysed, to see his deare companion in libertie,
and declared to be innocent, on the other part he blushed for shame,
that hee had so lightly, and without better proofe and triall condempned
her, whom God by his grace had preserued from the lions throates,
and durste not lift vp his head, by reason his harte freated at the
remembraunce of his light credite and furie immoderate.

Finallie imbracing his wife, and kissing her louingly, said vnto her:“ Madame, and deare beloued
wife, I can not denye but foolishely I haue attempted to blemishe
the honor of her, that whilome made me to shine and glister amongst
the best and chief of al this countrey, but he that doth wel marke
and beholde the galle and disdaine of a husband louing his wyfe, and
then vnderstandyng her litle care and greate forgetfulnesse whiche
shee hath, bothe of his honour and glorie of his comforte, will easely
excuse and pardon my fault, whiche I will not by any meanes colour
and cloke, but rather craue pardon at your handes, assuring you that
I will amende and requite the same, so well and in suche wise as you
and yours shall haue no cause but to be content and satisfied.”“ It
suffiseth me, sir, (quod she) that my giltlesse offence is knowen
vnto you, and that I haue recouered place in your fauourable acceptation:
for I doe accompte mine aduersitie well imployed, sith thereby you
and your friendes may glorie, of the seuere iustice ministred against
malefacters, and I reioyce in resistaunce of the assaultes of loue,
and of death to guarde and kepe my chastitie pure and inuiolable:
and may serue for example to euery honourable Ladie, being assailed
with suche strong and mightie aduersaries, to kepe them selues honest.

For the croune is not due but to her that shall lawfully combate to the ende.” After this the
lorde by perswasion of his wife, commaunded that the foole should be auoided the house, that
his presence might not grieue or torment her, ne yet renewe the memorie
of a thing that neuer was thought or doen.

And not without cause: for the Lorde, whiche reclined his eare to
euery trifling report, and credited the woordes of euery whistling
pikethanke, had much a do to escape from doing thinges unworthy his
estate and calling.

Of so great force truely is the venime of such Serpentes, that seasing by little and little, the
harte of him disposed to receiue it in furie, maketh it to be in
effect like the nature of poyson and drogues corrupt: whereof men
ought to be no lesse, but rather more diligent and carefull then of
meates, amonges persones whom they suspect and feare, sithens that
maladies and infections of minde, be farre more daungerous then outward
passions which torment the body.

Whereunto if the said nobleman was not hedefull, he felt the dammage
for penaunce of his inconsideration.

Howbeit as thinges, both good and ill amonges men, bee not still durable and perpetuall. Certaine
daies after, he began to solace hymselfe with his wife, and rode an huntinge abroade, visited
his neighbours, and at home made great feastes and banquettes, whereunto his kindred and frends
were inuited, to congratulate this newe alliaunce, indeuouring thereby to satifye the fault committed,
and the better to gratifie and pleasure his wyfe, to make her know how much more hee esteemed
and regarded her then before: hee caused the successe of his present
historie to be ingrauen with great industrie, and marueilous cunning
in Marble, which he placed ouer the gate of the first entrie into
his Castell, aswell to immortalizate the great chastitie of this fayre
and vertuous wife, as to set forth a Mirrour and example to euerye
housholde seruaunt, and to all other whatsoeuer they bee, to beware
how they attempt any thing against the honour of Ladies.

For many times it chaunceth, that he which diggeth a ditch, and setteth
vp a Gallowes, is the first that doth fall, or is stretched thereuppon.

As you may see by this present discourse, which setteth before your
eyes what ende the fonde loue of them ordinarily haue, which without
reason, not measureing their owne ability, doe suffer themselues to
be guided and led into their sensuall lustes and appetites: for ill
successe faileth not in a beginning, the grounde whereof abhorring
reason, is planted and layed vppon the sandie foundacion of pleasure,
which is shaken and ouerthrowen, by the least winde and tempest that
Fortune can bluster against such building.

THE FORTY-SECOND NOUELL.

There is no man but doth knowe, that Valencia is at this day, the chiefe and onelye Rampar of
Spaine, the true seate of Faith, Iustice and humanity.

And amonges all the rare and excellent ornamentes, that Citie is wel furnished with so trimme
Ladies and curteous gentlewomen, as they know how to baite and feede yong men with foolish
daliaunce, and idle passetime. So that if there be any beetlehead or grosse person, the better to
allure and prouoke him to those follies, they tell him by a common Prouerbe: That he must go
to Valencia. In this citie there was in old time as it is at this day, a verye aunciente stocke
and familie called Ventimiglia, oute of which be descended a great nomber of riche and honourable
knightes. Amonges whom, not long time paste, there was one named Didaco, verye famous and renowmed
to be the most liberall and familiar gentleman of the City, who (for
want of better businesse) walked vppe and downe the citie, and so
consumed his youth in triumphes, maskes, and other expences, common
and apte for such pilgrimes, addressing his loue indifferently to
al women, without greater affection to one, then to an other, and
continued that order, till vppon an holy daye, he espyed a yonge maide
of fimal yeares, but of very exquisite beauty: which maiden sodainlye
castinge her eye vppon him, so pearced the knighte Didaco with her
looke, that from that time forth shee entred more neare his hart than
any other.

And after he had well marked her dwelling place, he many times passed
and repassed before the doore, to espie if he might get some loke
or other fauour of her, that began already to gouerne the bridle of
his thoughtes, and if it chaunced that the gentleman beheld her, she
shewed herselfe curteous and amiable, indued with grace so good as
he neuer departed ill contented out of the streate.

The gentleman continuing certaine time in those vanities, was desirous
to know a far of what she was, of what lineage and of what vocation.

And after he had curiously searched out all her original, he vnderstoode by diuers reporte, that
she was a Goldsmithes doughter, whose father was dead certaine yeares before, hauinge no more
but her mother aliue, and two brethren, both of their father’ s science. Notwithstanding, of
life she was chaste and honest, defamed with none, although she was pursued of many. Her outward
beautie did not so much set her forth, as her grace and order of talke, who although brought
vp in a Citizen’ s house, yet no Lady or gentlewoman in the Citie,
was comparable to her in vertue and behauiour.

For from her tender yeares, she was not onely giuen to her nedle (a meete exercise for mayds of
her degre,) but also was trayned vp to write and reade, wherein she toke so greate pleasure, as
ordinarilie shee caried a booke in her hande, which she neuer gaue ouer, till she had gathered
som fruit thereof. This knight hauing receyued that first impression, of the valor and vertue
of Violenta (for that was her name) was further in loue then before: and that which added more
oile to the matche, was the continuall lookes, wherewith she knew how to delighte him: and wyth
them shee was so liberall, that so oft as he passed through the streate she shot them forth
so cruelly, as his poore hart (feeling it selfe so tormented) could
not indure that new onset.

By reason whereof, thincking to quench the fire, that by litle and litle consumed him, he attempted
her chastity, with giftes, letters, and messengers, which he continued the space of halfe a yeare or more.
Whereunto Violenta geuing no place, in the ende hee was constrayned
to assayle her with his owne presence: and one daye finding her alone
at the doore, after he had made a verye humble reuerence vnto her,
he sayde:“ Maistresse Violenta, considering your order and the colde
regard that you haue to my letters and messages, I do remember the
subtiltye that is attributed to the Serpente, who with his taile stoppeth
his eares, because he will not heare the words, which hath power to
constraine him to do against his wil, which hath made me to leaue
to write vnto you, and to desire specially to speake vnto you, that
mine affectuous accentes, my sorowful words and feruent sighes mighte
certifie you better then paper, the rest of my passion, beleuing verely,
that if the heauy sound of my greuous complaints, may come to your
delicate eares, they will make you to vnderstand a part of that good
and euill, which I feele continually in my harte, although the loue
which I beare you, be such as I cannot giue such liuely experience
outwardly, being but litle in comparison of them, which may be seene
within.” And pronouncing those words, there followed so many teares,
sobbes and sighes, as they gaue sufficient testimony, that his tongue
was the true and faithfull messenger of his hart.

Whereof Violenta some what ashamed, with a constante grace said vnto him:“ Senior Didaco, if
you do yet remember your life past, and mine honesty (which peraduenture
you haue thought either rude or cruell) I doubt not, that you haue
any cause to maruaile of my presumption and to attribute that to vice,
which is familiar with vertue.

For although that you haue sollicited mee to loue you, by an infinite
nomber of letters and messages, yet it is so, that following the nature
of maydes of my degree, I haue neither allowed them, nor yet condempned
them, as wherunto accordingly I haue made no aunswere: not for despite
or contempt, but to let you know more certainly, that by fauouring
your enterprises, I should increase your griefe, which can receiue
none ende by the waye you pretende.

For although that I haue made the firste proofe vpon my selfe, and therefore of reason I ought to lamente
them, whiche be in semblable paine, yet I will not let slippe the
bridle in suche wise to my passion, that mine honestie shall remain
in an other man’ s power, and (so it may be) at the mercie and curtesie
of them, who not knowing howe dere it is to me, shall thinke they
haue made a pretie conquest.

And that I maye haue no cause to repent to late, I haue stopped mine
eares for feare, that I be not arested and stayed with the violence
of your charmes, a thing as you say proper to Serpentes.

But I haue fortefied my harte, and so armed my inwarde minde, as
if God continue that grace in me, which hitherto he hath done, I hope
not to be surprised.

Although that I must needes confesse (to my shame) that I haue receiued marueilous assaultes of
loue, not onely for the common renowme of your vertues, and through
the curtesie and gentlenesse dayly imparted to me by your letters,
but specially by your presence, whiche hath yelded vnto me experience
and assuraunce of that, whiche all the letters of the world could
not do, nor all other messages were not able to conceiue.

And to the ende that I may not be vtterly ingrate, and that you doe
not departe from me, altogether miscontent, I doe promise you nowe
that from henceforth, you shall inioye the first place of my harte,
whereunto another shall neuer enter: if so be you can be content with
honest amitie, wherein you shall finde me in time to come so liberall,
in all that whiche honestie shall permitte, that I am contente to
forgoe the name of a presumptuous or cruell Damosell for your sake.

But if you meane to abuse me, or hope for anye thing of me, contrarie
to mine honour, you be meruailously deceiued.

Wherefore if you thinke your worthinesse to great to cary away a recompence so small, you shall
doe very wel both for me and yourselfe, in forgetting that is past,
to cut of all hope in time to come.” And she thinking to prolonge
a further discourse, the mother of Violenta which stil stode at the
wyndowe al the time that Senior Didaco was with her doughter, came
downe to the doore, interrupting their talke, saide to Didaco:“ Sir,
I suppose you take great pleasure in the follie of my doughter, because
you tarie and abide here, rather to contriue your tyme, then for any
other contentacion you can receiue.

For she is so euill taught, and of suche rude behauiour, that her demeanour will rather trouble
you, than geue you cause of delight.”“ Maistresse,” said Didaco,“ although in the beginning
I purposed not to tary so long, yet when I entered in more familiar acquaintaunce and had well
experienced her good graces, I confesse that I haue staied here longer then I thought. And were
hee neuer so great a Lorde, that liueth at this daie, I dare auouche that he might thinke his
tyme well spente, in hearing suche sober and honest talke, wherewith I thinke my selfe so well
satisfied and instructed, as all the daies of my life I wyll witnesse, that vertue, curtesie,
and sober behauiour is to bee founde, as well in meane degrees and houses, as in them that
be right noble, amonges which meane families, although she be one
(it maye so be) that one more illustre and noble, can not bee more
excellente, and accomplished with better manners, then she: whiche
is nowe well manifested to me in this little discourse.” And after
certaine other common talke, Didaco took his leaue, and went home
to his house, where hee lyued fourtene or fiftene monethes without
any reste, assaying by all meanes to mortifie his desires, but it
auayled not: For although he was ryche, a trymme Courtiar, and an
eloquent gentleman, and had opportunitie to speake vnto her many times,
and she gentle enough to heare him, and to vnderstande his errantes,
and was assured by frendes that she for her part was also in loue,
yet he was not able by humane arte and pollicie, to conuerte her to
his mynde.

Wherewithall hee was long tyme molested, and at lengthe pressed with griefe and annoyance, hee was
aduised to sende sixe hundred ducates to the mother, for a reliefe to the mariage of her doughter,
promising besides, that he would assigne her an honest dowrie, when she found a man worthy to be her
husbande: vppon condicion that she would yelde to him some comforte, to ease his affection. But
shee whiche could not be wonne with loue, was not able to be recouered with money: and was
offended that Senior Didaco had forgotten himselfe so farre as to
thinke to gaine that for money, which with so great paine, teares
and sighes, had bene denied him.

And to make him vnderstande howe she was offended, shee sent woorde by him that brought her the
money, that he should goe and proue hereafter to deceiue them that
measured their honour with the price of profite, and not to sette
trappes to deceiue other that would buye nothing hurtfull to vertue.

And after Didaco was aduertised of her minde, and perceiued that he lost time in all his enterprises,
and was able no longer to susteine his extreme paine and sorowe, whiche daily augmented, and when
hee had debated in his minde all the successe of his loue, he resolued
in the end vpon that which he thought moste profitable for his quiet,
whiche was to marye her.

And although she was of no suche house, and yet lesse indowed with substaunce, as he deserued,
yet her beautie and vertue, and other giftes of grace, wherewith she was inriched, made her
worthie of a great lorde.

And resolued vpon this, hee repaired to Violenta, to whom he said:“ Maistresse Violenta, if the
true touchstone to knowe them that be perfecte louers (amonges other)
is mariage, certainly you haue gotten a husbande of me, if it please
you to accepte me for suche one, whom in time you shall make to vnderstande
the difference betweene goodes and vertue, and betweene honestie and
richesse.” Violenta then rauished with ioye, and incredible contentation,
somewhat abashed, sayd vnto him:“ Senior Didaco, I knowe not whether
you pretende by woordes to proue my constancie, or els to bring me
into fooles paradise: but of one thing I can assure you, that although
I acknowledge my selfe inferiour to you in merites, goodes and vertue,
yet if that come to passe which you promise, I will not geue place
to you in loue, trusting if God sende us life together, you shall
well vnderstande one daye that you would not exchaunge my persone
for a greater Ladie, what so euer she be.” For confirmation whereof,
Didaco plucked from his finger an Emeralde of great value, which (when
he had kissed her) he gaue vnto her in the waye of mariage, praying
her that she would not disclose it for a certaine time, vntill he
him selfe had made all his frendes priuie vnto it.

Notwithstanding, he willed her to imparte the same to her twoo brethren, and to her mother,
and he would get some Priest of the countrie to solempnize the mariage within their house:
which was doen in a chamber, about fower of the clocke in the morning, being onely present
the mother, the brethren, the Prieste, and a seruaunt of the house,
brought vp there from her youthe, and his own man, without making
any other preparation of coste, requisite for suche a matter.

In this sorte they spent the day in great ioye and mirthe (which they can conceiue, that be
of base birth, and exalted to some highe degree of honour) till night was come, and then euery
man withdrewe them selues, leauing the bride and her husbande to the mercie of loue, and order
of the night. Who being alone receiued equal ioye, and like contentation, which they fele that
being pressed with ardent and greuous thirste, doe in the ende afterwardes
with liuely ioye, and all kinde of libertie, quenche that cruell
discommoditie.

And continued in those pleasures till morning, that daye began to appeare, to whome Violenta saide:“
My honourable Lorde and dere husbande, sithe that you be nowe in
possession of that which you haue so greatly desired, I humbly beseeche
you, to consider for the time to come, howe and what wyse your pleasure
is that I shall vse my selfe.

For if God graunt me the grace to be so discrete in pleasing you, as I shalbe readie and desirous
to obey you, in all that you shall commaunde mee, there was neuer
gentleman’ s seruaunt, that did more willingly please his maister,
then I hope to doe you.” Whereunto Didaco aunswered:“ My sweete and
welbeloued wife, let vs leaue this humblenesse and seruice for this
time, to them whiche delight in them: for I promise you of my faith,
that I haue you in no lesse reuerence and estimation, then if you
had come of the greatest house in Cathalongne: as I will make you
vnderstande some other time, at more leasure.

But till I haue giuen order to certaine of mine affaires, I praye
you to kepe our mariage secrete, and bee not offended if many times
I do resorte home to mine own house, although ther shall no day passe
(by my wil) but at night I wil kepe you companie. Then, going to Dunborough's rooms one day, he found them empty, and,
bribing the servant, learned that his master had gone to Wallingford. And the man told him
his suspicions. Mr. Thomasson was aghast; and by that day's post--after much searching of heart
and long pondering into which scale he should throw his weight--he despatched the following
letter to Lady Dunborough:

'HONOURED MADAM,--The peculiar care I have of that distinguished and excellent gentleman, your
son, no less than the profound duty I owe to my lord and your ladyship, induces me to a step
which I cannot regard without misgiving; since, once known, it must deprive me of the influence
with Mr. Dunborough which I have now the felicity to enjoy, and which, heightened by the affection
he is so good as to bestow on me, renders his society the most agreeable in the world. Nevertheless,
and though considerations of this sort cannot but have weight with me, I am not able to be
silent, nor allow your honoured repose among the storied oaks of Papworth to be roughly shattered
by a blow that may still be averted by skill and conduct.

'For particulars, Madam, the young gentleman--I say it with regret--has of late been drawn
into a connection with a girl of low origin and suitable behaviour, Not that your ladyship
is to think me so wanting in savoir-faire as to trouble your ears with this, were it all; but
the person concerned--who (I need scarcely tell one so familiar with Mr. Dunborough's amiable
disposition) is solely to blame--has the wit to affect virtue, and by means of this pretence,
often resorted to by creatures of that class, has led my generous but misguided pupil to the
point of matrimony. Your ladyship shudders? Alas! it is so. I have learned within the hour
that he has followed her to Wallingford, whither she has withdrawn herself, doubtless to augment
his passion; I am forced to conclude that nothing short of your ladyship's presence and advice
can now stay his purpose. In that belief, and with the most profound regret, I pen these lines;
and respectfully awaiting the favour of your ladyship's commands, which shall ever evoke my
instant compliance,

'I have the honour to be while I live, Madam,

Your ladyship's most humble obedient servant,

'FREDERICK THOMASSON.

'Nota bene.--I do not commend the advantage of silence in regard to this communication, this
being patent to your ladyship's sagacity.'

CHAPTER VIII

THE OLD BATH ROAD

In the year 1757--to go back ten years from the spring with which we are dealing--the ordinary
Englishman was a Balbus despairing of the State. No phrase was then more common on English
lips, or in English ears, than the statement that the days of England's greatness were numbered,
and were fast running out. Unwitting the wider sphere about to open before them, men dwelt
fondly on the glories of the past. The old babbled of Marlborough's wars, of the entrance of
Prince Eugene into London, of choirs draped in flags, and steeples reeling giddily for Ramillies
and Blenheim. The young listened, and sighed to think that the day had been, and was not, when
England gave the law to Europe, and John Churchill's warder set troops moving from Hamburg
to the Alps.

On the top of such triumphs, and the famous reign of good Queen Anne, had ensued forty years
of peace, broken only by one inglorious war. The peace did its work: it settled the dynasty,
and filled the purse; but men, considering it, whispered of effeminacy and degeneracy, and
the like, as men will to the end of time. And when the clouds, long sighted on the political
horizon, began to roll up, they looked fearfully abroad and doubted and trembled; and doubted
and trembled the more because in home affairs all patriotism, all party-spirit, all thought
of things higher than ribbon or place or pension, seemed to be dead among public men. The Tories,
long deprived of power, and discredited by the taint or suspicion of Jacobitism, counted for
nothing. The Whigs, agreed on all points of principle, and split into sections, the Ins and
Outs, solely by the fact that all could not enjoy places and pensions at once, the supply being
unequal to the demand--had come to regard politics as purely a game; a kind of licensed hazard
played for titles, orders, and emoluments, by certain families who had the entrée to the public
table by virtue of the part they had played in settling the succession.

Into the midst of this state of things, this world of despondency, mediocrity, selfishness,
and chicanery, and at the precise crisis when the disasters which attended the opening campaigns
of the Seven Years' War--and particularly the loss of Minorca--seemed to confirm the gloomiest
prognostications of the most hopeless pessimists, came William Pitt; and in eighteen months
changed the face of the world, not for his generation only, but for ours. Indifferent as an
administrator, mediocre as a financier, passionate, haughty, headstrong, with many of the worst
faults of an orator, he was still a man with ideals--a patriot among placemen, pure where all
were corrupt. And the effect of his touch was magical. By infusing his own spirit, his own
patriotism, his own belief in his country, and his own belief in himself, into those who worked
with him--ay, and into the better half of England--he wrought a seeming miracle. ... How do
you behave on these lamentable occasions? Which he commaunded to be done as well for the ioy that
he had recouered the thing, which he accompted lost, as to declare and acknowledge to euery
wight, that vertue cannot make herselfe better knowen: than at that
time, when the actions and deedes of great personages be semblable
in raritie and excellencie to their nobilitie.

For a Prince is of greater dignitie and admiration than he commonly sheweth himselfe, which can
neuer enter into the heade of the popular sort, who waie the affections of other with the balance
of their owne rude and beastly fansies. As the Greeke poet Euripides in his tragedie of Medea,
doth say: Ill luck and chaunce thou must of force endure, Fortune’
s fickle stay needs thou must sustaine: To grudge therat it booteth
not at all, Before it come the witty wise be sure: By wisedom’ s lore,
and counsell not in vaine, To shun and eke auoyde.

The whirling ball, Of fortune’ s threates, the sage may well rebound By good foresight, before
it light on ground. The Emperour then hauing forgotten, or wisely dissembling that which he could
not amende, met his doughter and sonne in lawe at the Palace gate, with so pleasaunt cheere
and ioyfull countenance, as the like long time before he did not vse.

Where Alerane and Adelasia being light of from their horse, came
to kisse his handes (and both vppon their knees) began to frame an
oration for excuse of their fault, and to pray pardon of his maiestie.

The good Prince rauished with ioy, and satisfied with repentaunce, stopped their mouthes with
sweete kisses and hard embracings.“ O happie ill time (said he) and sorowful ioy, which now bringeth
to me a pleasure more great than euer was my heauy displeasure. From whence commeth this my
pleasaunt ioye? O wel deuised flight, by the which I gaine that (by preseruinge my losse once made and
committed) which I neuer had: if I may say so, considering the ornament of my house, and quietnesse
of my life.” And saying so, hee kissed and embraced his litle neuewes, and was loth that Adelasia should
make rehersall of other talke but of mirthe and pleasure.“ For (said he)
it sufficeth me that I haue ouerpassed and spent the greatest part
of my life in heauinesse, vtterly vnwilling to renewe olde sores and
wounds.” Thus the mariage begon, vnknowen and againste the Emperour’
s will, was consummate and celebrated with great pompe and magnificence,
by his owne commaundement, in the Citie of Sauonne, where he made
sir William knight, with his owne hand.

Many goodly factes at the tourney and tilte were done and atchieued, whereat William almost
euery day bare away the prise and victorie, to the great pleasure of his father and contentacion
of his graundfather, who then made him marques of Monferrat. To the second sonne of Alerane, he
gaue the Marquisat of Sauonne, with all the appurtenances and iurisdictions adioyning, of whom
be descended the Marqueses of Caretto. The third he made Marques of Saluce, the race of whom is
to this daye of good fame and nobilitie. Of the fourth sonne sprange out the original of the house
of Cera. The fifte was Marques of Incise, whose name and progeny
liueth to this daye. The sixt sonne did gouerne Pouzon. The seuenth was established
Senior of Bosco, vnder the name and title of Marques. And Alerane was
made and constituted ouerseer of the goods and dominions of his children,
and the Emperor’ s Lieutenaunt of his possessions which he had in
Liguria.

Thus the emperoure by moderatinge his passion vanquished himselfe, and gaue example to the
posteritie to pursue the offence before it do take roote: but when the thinge cannot be corrected,
to vse modestie and mercie which maketh kinges to liue in peace, and their Empire in assuraunce.
Hauinge taken order with all his affayres in Italye, hee tooke leaue of his doughter and children,
and retired into Almaine. And Alerane liued honourably amonges his people, was beloued of his father
in lawe, and in good reputacion and fame, arriued to old yeares, still remembring that aduersitie oughte
not to bring us to dispaire, nor prosperitie to insolencie or ill behauiour, and contempt of thinges
that seeme small and base, sithe there is nothing vnder the heauens that is stable and sure. For
he that of late was great and made all men to stoupe before him, is become altogether such
a one as though he had never beene, and the poore humble man aduaunced to that estate, from
whence the firste did fall and was deposed, makinge lawes sometimes for him, vnder whom he liued
a subiect. And behold of what force the prouidence of God is, and what poise his balance doth
containe, and how blame worthy they be that referre the effectes of that deuine counsel to the
inconstant and mutable reuolucion of fortune that is blinde and vncertaine. THE FORTY-FIFTH NOUELL.
Loue commonly is counted the greatest passion amongs all the most greuous, that ordinarily do
assault the sprites of men, which after it hath once taken hold of anye
gentle subiecte, followeth the nature of the corrupt humour, in those
that haue a feauer, which taking his beginning at the harte, desperseth
it selfe incurablye, through all the other sensible partes of the bodie:
whereof this present historie giueth vs amplie to vnderstand, being
no lesse maruelous than true.

Those that haue read the aunciente histories and chronicles of Spaine, haue sene in diuers places
the occasion of the cruell ennimitie which raigned by the space of XL. yeares, betweene the
houses of Mendozza and Tolledo, families not onely righte noble and aunciente, but also most aboundante
in riches, subiectes and seignories of all the whole realme. It happened one day that their armies
being redie to ioyne in battaile, the Lord Iohn of Mendozza chief of his armie, a man much commended
by al histories, had a widow to his sister, a very deuout Lady, who
after she vnderstode the heauie newes of that battaile, falling downe
vppon her knees, praied God incessauntly, that it would please him
to reconcile the two families together, and to make an ende of so
manye mischiefes.

And as she vnderstode that they were in the chiefest of the conflicte,
and that there were a greate nomber slaine on both partes, she made
a vow to God, that if her brother retorned victorious from that enterprise,
she would make a voyage to Rome on foote.

The ouerthrowe fell (after much bloudshead vpon them of Tolledo. Mendozza brought away the victorie,
with the lesse losse of his people. Wherof Isabell aduertised, declared vnto her brother the vow
that she had made. Which seemed very straung vnto him, specially how she durst enterprise so
longe a voyage on foote, and thoughte to turne her purpose, howbeit she was so importunate
vppon him, as in the ende hee gaue her leaue, with charge that she should go wel accompanied
and by small iourneis, for respect of her health. The Ladie Isabell being departed from Spaine,
hauing trauersed the mountaines Pirenees, passed by Fraunce, went ouer the Alpes, and came to
Thurin, where the Duke of Sauoye had then for wyfe, a sister of the kinge of Englande, whoe was
bruted to be the fairest creature of the weste partes of the world. For this cause the Lady
Isabel desired greatly in passing by to see her, to know whether truth did aunswere the great renowne
of her beauty. Wherein she had fortune so fauourable, that entring into Thurin, she found the
Duchesse vpon her Coche, goinge abroade to take the ayre of the fields:
which the Lady Isabell vnderstandinge, stayde to behold her, being by fortune
at that present at the doore of her Coche.

And then with great admiration, considering the wonderfull beautie of that princesse, iudging
her the chiefest of beautie of al those that she had euer seene, she spake somewhat loude in the Spanish
tongue, to those of her companie, in this maner:“ If God woulde haue permitted that my brother
and this Princesse might haue married together, euery man might well haue said, that there had
bin mette the moste excellente couple for perfection of beautie, that were to be found in all
Europa.” And her wordes in deede were true: for the Lord Mendozza was euen one of the fairest
knightes that in his time was to be found in all Spaine. The Duchesse whoe vnderstoode the
Spanishe tongue very well, passing forth, behelde all that companie: and fayninge as thoughe shee
had not vnderstande those woordes, thoughte that shee surely was some greate Lady. Wherefore when shee was
a litle paste her, she saide to one of her pages:“ Marke whether that ladye and her companye go
to their lodging, and say vnto her, that I desire her, (at my returne) to come and see mee at my
Castell.” Which the page did. So the Duchesse walking a long the riuer of Poo, mused vppon the words
spoken by the Spanishe Ladye, which made her not longe to tarie there, but toke the waye backe againe
to her Castel, where being arriued, she founde the Lady Isabell, who at the Duchesse request,
attended her with her company: and after dutiful reuerence, the Duchesse
with like gratulacion, receiued her very courteouslie, taking her a
part, and demaunding her of what prouince of Spaine shee was, of
what house, and what fortune had brought her into that place.

And then the Lady Isabell made her to vnderstand, from the beginninge, the occasion of her long
voyage, and of what house she was: the duchesse vnderstanding her nobilitie, excused her
selfe, for that shee had not done her that honour which shee deserved, imputinge the faulte vpon
the ignorance of her estate. And after diuers other curteous communications the Duchesse pressed
her to know whereunto the wordes tended that shee had spoken of her, and of the beautie of her
brother. The Spanishe lady somewhat abashed, saide vnto her:“ Madame,
if I had knowen so much of your skill in our tongue, as now I do, I
would haue beene better aduised before I had soe exalted the beautie
of my brother, whose praise had beene more commendable in the mouth
of another: yet thus much I dare affirme (without affection be it
spoken), as they that know him can report, that hee is one of the
comliest Gentlemen that Spaine hath bredde these twenty yeares.

But of that which I haue saide touching your beautie, if I haue offended, muche a doe shall
I haue to get the same pardoned, because I cannot repent mee, nor say otherwise, except I should
speake contrary to truth. And that durste I enterprise to be verified by yourselfe, if it were
possible that nature for one quarter of one houre onelye had transported into some other that which with
right great wonder she sheweth to be in you.” Wherunto the Duchesse to the ende shee woulde seeme to
excuse her prayse, aunswered with a litle bashfulnes, which beautified much her liuely colour,
saying:“ Madame if you continue in these termes, you will constraine me to thincke, that by
chaunging of place you haue also chaunged your iudgemente: for I am one of the leaste to be commended
for beauty of all this lande, or els I will beleeue that you haue the beautie and valour of my
Lorde your brother soe printed in your minde, as all that whiche presenteth it selfe vnto you,
hauinge anye apparaunce of beautie, you measure by the perfection of his.” And at that instante
the Ladie Isabell, whoe thoughte that the duchesse had taken in euill parte the comparison that
she had made betweene her brother and her, somwhat in choler and heate, said vnto her:“ Madame,
you shall pardon mee for that I haue so much forgotten my selfe, to presume to compare your
beautie to his: whereof if he be to be commended, yet I maye well be blamed, being his sister, to publishe
the same in an vnknowen place: notwithstanding, I am wel assured,
that when you shall speake, euen with his enemies, that yet besides
his beautie, they will well assure him to be one of the gentlest and
best condicioned gentlemen that liueth.” The Duchesse seinge her in
these alterations, and so affected to the praise of her brother, toke
great pleasure in her speach, and willingly woulde haue had her to
passe further, had it not bin for feare to offende her, and to put
her in a choler.

And to thintent to turne her from that matter, she commaunded the table to be couered for supper,
where she caused her to be serued honourably of all the most delicate and most exquisite meates that
were possible to be gotten. Supper done, and the tables vncouered, after they had a little talked
together, and that it was time to withdrawe themselues, the Duchesse the more to honor her, would
that she should lodge in her chamber with her, where the pilgrime (wearied with the way) toke very
good rest. But the Duchesse pricked with the strange talke of the
Lady Isabell, hauing a hammer working in her head, could not sleepe.
And had so wel the beauty of the unknowen knight graued in the bottom
of her hart, as thinking to close her eyes, she thought that he flew
continuallye before her like a certaine fansie or shadowe.

In sorte, that to know further what he was, she would gladly haue made greater inquirie. Then
sodainlye after a little shame and feare intermingled with a certain
womanhoode longe obserued by her, and therewithall the fidelitie
which shee bare to the Duke her husbande, presentinge it selfe before her,
shee buried altogether her first counsell which died and tooke ende,
euen so sone almoste as it was borne. And so tossed with an infinite
number of diuers thoughtes passed the night, vntill the daye beginning
to lighten the world with his burning lampe, constrained her to ryse.
And then the Lady Isabel, ready to departe, went to take leaue of
the Duchesse, who willingly would haue wished that she had neuer
sene her, for the newe flame that she felt at her harte. Neuerthelesse,
dissembling her euill, not able to holde her any longer, made her to promise
by othe, at her retourne from her voyage, to repasse by Thurin, and after
she had made her a very liberall offer of her goodes, taking her leaue,
she left her to the tuicion of God. Certaine dayes after the departing
of the Spanish lady, the Duchesse thinking to quenche this new fier,
the same began further to flame, and the more that hope failed her,
the more did desire encrease in her. And after an infinite number of
sundrie cogitacions, Loue got the victorie. And she resolued with her
selfe in the ende, whatsoeuer might come thereof, to communicate her
cause to one of her beloued damsels called Emilia, and to haue her
aduise, in whom she wonted to repose her trust in all her secrete
affaires, and causing her to be called for secretely, she said vnto
her:“ Emilia, I beleue that if thou hast taken any good heede to my
auncient maner of behauiour, euer since I departed from England,
thou haste knowen me to be the very ramper and refuge of all afflicted
persons.

But now my destenies be turned contrarie. For I haue nowe more neede of counsel than any other liuing
creature, and hauing no person about me worthy to be priuie of my misfortune, but thou, my first
and last refuge is to thee alone: of whom I hope to receiue consolation
in a matter whiche toucheth me no lesse than my life and honour.”
And then the Duchesse declared vnto her priuily, how since the departing
of the Lady Isabell she had had no reste in her minde, and how she
was enamoured of a knight whome she neuer sawe, whose beautie and
good grace had touched her so nere, as being altogether vnable any
longer to resiste her mishap, she knew not to whom to haue recourse,
but to the fidelitie of her counsell: adding thereunto for conclusion,
that she loued him not dishonestly, or for hope she had to satisfie
any lasciuious appetite, but onely to haue a sight of him: whiche
(as shee thought) would bring unto her such contentation, as ther
by her grief shoulde take ende.

Emilia who euer loued her maistresse as she did her owne heart, had great
compassion vpon her, when she vnderstode the light foundation of her
straunge loue: neuerthelesse desiring to please her euen to the last
point of her life, she said vnto her:“ Madame if it wil please you
to recreate your selfe from these your sorrowes, and to respite me
onely twoo dayes, I hope to prouide by some good meanes that you shal
shortly see him who vndeseruedly doth worke you all this euill.” The
Duchesse nourished with this hope, desired her effectually to thinke
vppon it: promising vnto her, that if her woordes came to good effect,
she would make her such recompence as she her self should confesse
she had not done pleasure to an ingrate or vnthankefull woman.

Emilia which had the brute to be one of the moste subtile and sharpe witted dames of all Thurin,
slept not during the time of her prescription. But after she had searched an infinite number of meanes
to come to that which she desired, there was one that semed moste expedient
for that purpose, and of least perill aboue other.

And her time of delaye expired, shee went to Madame the Duchesse, and sayd:“ Madame, God knoweth howe many
troubles my minde hath sustayned, and how much I haue striued with mine
own conscience to satisfie your commaundement, neuerthelesse, after I
had debated thinges so substantially as was possible, I coulde deuise
nothing more worthy your contente, than that whiche I wyll nowe declare
vnto you, if it wyll please you to heare mee.

Whiche to be short is, that for the execution of this our enterpryse, it behoueth you to fayne your selfe
to be sicke, and to suffer your selfe to be trayned into suche maladies as there shall rather appeare
in you token of death, than hope of lyfe. And being brought into such extremitie, you shall make
a vowe (your health recouered) to go within a certayne time to Saint Iames on pilgrimage, which
thing you may easely obtayne of the Duke your husbande. And then may you make your voyage
liberally with the Ladye Isabell, who will passe this waye vpon her
retourne, without discouering your affection vnto her, and wyll not
fayle by reknowledging the curtesie that you haue vsed towardes her
in these partes, to conduct you by her brother’ s house, wher you
may see him at your ease, that maketh you to suffer this great torment.

And I will aduertise you furthermore of one thing, which till this time I haue kept close, whiche
is: that for as mutch as we two togethers cannot without great difficultie
accomplishe our businesse, it hath seemed good vnto me to know of
you, if you would that a third persone shalbe called hereunto, who
is so much at my commaundement as I dare comit my trust vnto him. They have
no more to do with Sir George Soane, whose name they appear to have taken, than your ladyship has.'

'Have a care! Have a care, sir,' cried the lawyer, trembling.

'Or than I have!' persisted Mr. Thomasson hardily, and with his head in the air; 'and no right
or title to be anywhere but in the servants' room. That is their proper place. Lady Dunborough,'
he continued, his eyes darting severity at the three culprits, 'are you aware that this young
person whom you have been so kind as to notice is--is--'

'Oh, Gadzooks, man, come to the point!' cried her ladyship, with one eye on the victuals.

'No, I will not shame her publicly,' said Mr. Thomasson, swelling with virtuous self-restraint.
'But if your ladyship would honour me with two words apart?'

Lady Dunborough rose, muttering impatiently; and Mr. Thomasson, with the air of a just man
in a parable, led her a little aside; but so that the three who remained at the table might
still feel that his eye and his reprehension rested on them. The pilgrimage this year was worthy of
the cause and the man, and afforded some object lessons in what might be accomplished by a cultivation
of those principles of discipline and devotion to duty, in the pursuit of a glorious ideal,
which Tone taught and adhered to throughout his adventurous and brilliant
career.

The well-ordered procession, the ready obedience to the commands of the marshals, the intense
earnestness of the multitude, and the display made by the youths-- the
national boy scouts-- their military bearing, and the bands and banners
which interspersed the procession as it marched from Sallins to Bodenstown
was a spectacle which pleased the eye and stirred the emotions.

Everything in connection with the pilgrimage was carried out with
a close attention to detail, and military-like precision which must
have been very acceptable to the great patriot in whose honour it
was organised, were he but permitted to gaze from the great Unknown
upon this practical demonstration of the perpetuation of the spirit
which animated him and his time, in the struggle against English misrule,
and the love and veneration in which he is still held, after the lapse
of the century and more that has passed since he made the final sacrifice
of his life in the cause of freedom.

Tone done to death did not die in vain.

The truth of this was evident in the character of the pilgrimage on Sunday last, when all that
is best and purest in patriotism in the land assembled at his graveside, to renew fealty to
the aims and ideals for which he suffered and died, and to hear the gospel of Irish nationality
preached and expounded as he knew and inculcated it in his day. A fusion of forces, and the
cultivation of a spirit and bond of brotherhood and friendship amongst Irishmen in the common
cause, were his methods to attain the great ideal of a separate and distinct nationality, for
then, as to-day, the chief obstacle to freedom and nationhood was not so much English domination in
itself, as want of cohesion, faction, and the disruption caused by
alien traditions and teachings.

This was the prevailing spirit of Sunday's commemoration, and as the great mass of people filed
past in orderly array and knelt, prayed, and laid wreaths on the
lonely grave, the solemnity and impressiveness of the occasion was
intensified.

In the suppressed murmurs, and silent gaze on the tomb of the mighty dead, one could recognise
the eagerness and the hope for another Tone to arise to complete
the work which he promoted, and vindicate the purity of the motives
which moved men like the leaders of'98 to do and dare for all, and
to "substitute the common name of Irishman for Catholic, Protestant,
and Dissenter."

The promoters, too, were fortunate in their choice of orator for the occasion. Mr. P. H. Pearse
did full justice to the occasion, and in language, beautiful and
impressive, pictured the man and his movements and the lessons to
be drawn by us to-day from the lifework of leaders in thought and
action like Tone. You
don't know what you are doing. I tell you that to-morrow--'

'What is this?' said a quiet voice. It was the landlord's; he spoke as he pushed his way through
the group at the door. 'Has your ladyship some complaint to make?' he continued civilly, his
eye taking in the scene--even to the elder woman, who through her tears kept muttering, 'Deary,
we ought not to have come here! I told him we ought not to come here!' And then, before her
ladyship could reply, 'Is this the party--that have Sir George Soane's rooms?' he continued,
turning to the nearest servant.

Lady Dunborough answered for the man. 'Ay!' she said, pitiless in her triumph. 'They are! And
know no more of Soane than the hair of my head! They are a party of fly-by-nights; and for
this fine madam, she is a kitchen dish-washer at Oxford! And the commonest, lowest slut that--'

'Your ladyship has said enough,' the landlord interposed, moved by pity or the girl's beauty.
'I know already that there has been some mistake here, and that these persons have no right
to the rooms they occupy. Sir George Soane has alighted within the last few minutes--'

'And knows nothing of them!' my lady cried, clapping her hands in triumph.

'That is so,' the landlord answered ominously. Then, turning to the bewildered attorney, 'For
you, sir,' he continued, 'if you have anything to say, be good enough to speak. On the face
of it, this is a dirty trick you have played me.'

'Trick?' cried the attorney.

'Ay, trick, man. But before I send for the constable--'

'The constable?' shrieked Mr. Fishwick. Truth to tell, it had been his own idea to storm the
splendours of the Castle Inn; and for certain reasons he had carried it in the teeth of his
companions' remonstrances. Now between the suddenness of the onslaught made on them, the strangeness
of the surroundings, Sir George's inopportune arrival, and the scornful grins of the servants
who thronged the doorway, he was cowed. For a moment his wonted sharpness deserted him; he
faltered and changed colour. 'I don't know what you mean,' he said. 'I gave--I gave the name
of Soane; and you--you assigned me the rooms. I thought it particularly civil, sir, and was
even troubled about the expense--'

'Is your name Soane?' Mr. Smith asked with blunt-ness; he grew more suspicious as the other's
embarrassment increased.

'No,' Mr. Fishwick admitted reluctantly. 'But this young lady's name--'

'Is Soane?'

'Yes.'

Mr. Thomasson stepped forward, grim as fate. Nor is the diatribe against the evil communication that
had corrupted good manners any novelty in the quarrel. Critics have practically recognised
that letters are a reflex of life long before Matthew Arnold formulated the relation. And in
the disputing between Classicists and Romanticists it has invariably happened that the Classicists
were the earlier generation, and therefore more given to convention,
while the Romanticists were likely to be experimental in life as in
literature.

Altogether then, we must discount somewhat Ascham’ s fierce denunciation, of the Italianate Englishman,
and of the Englishing of Italian books.

There can be little doubt, I think, that in the denunciation of the“
bawdie stories” introduced from Italy, Ascham was thinking mainly
and chiefly of Painter’ s“ Palace of Pleasure.” The whole passage is
later than the death of Sir Thomas Sackville in 1566, and necessarily
before the death of Ascham in December 1568.

Painter’ s First Tome appeared in 1566, and his Second Tome in 1567. Of its immediate and striking
success there can be no doubt. A second edition of the first Tome appeared in 1569, the year
after Ascham’ s death, and a second edition of the whole work in 1575, the first Tome thus going
through three editions in nine years. It is therefore practically certain that Ascham had Painter’
s book in his mind [9] in the above passage, which may be taken as a contemporary criticism
of Painter, from the point of view of an adherent of the New-Old Learning, who conveniently forgot
that scarcely a single one of the Latin classics is free from somewhat similar blemishes to
those he found in Painter and his fellow-translators from the Italian.

[Footnote 9: Ascham was shrewd enough not to advertise the book he was denouncing by referring
to it by name. I have failed to find in the Stationer’ s Register of 1566-8 any similar book to
which his remarks could apply, except Fenton’ s Tragicall Discourses,
and that was from the French.] But it is time to turn to the book
which roused Ascham’ s ire so greatly, and to learn something of it
and its author.

[10] William Painter was probably
a Kentishman, born somewhere about 1525. [11] He seems to have taken
his degree at one of the Universities, as we find him head master of
Sevenoaks’ school about 1560, and the head master had to be a Bachelor
of Arts. In the next year, however, he left the pædagogic toga for some
connection with arms, for on 9 Feb. 1561, he was appointed Clerk
of the Ordnance, with a stipend of eightpence per diem, and it is
in that character that he figures on his title page.

He soon after married Dorothy Bonham of Dowling (born about 1537, died 1617), and had a family
of at least five children. He acquired two important manors in Gillingham, co. Kent, East Court
and Twidall. Haslewood is somewhat at a loss to account for these possessions. From documents
I have discovered and printed in an Appendix, it becomes only too clear,
I fear, that Painter’ s fortune had the same origin as too many private
fortunes, in peculation of public funds.

[Footnote 10: See Haslewood’ s account, reprinted infra, p. xxxvii., to which I have been able
to add a few documents in the Appendix.] [Footnote 11: His son, in
a document of 1591, speaks of him as his aged father (Appendix infra,
p. lvii.).] So far as we can judge from the materials at our disposal,
it would seem that Painter obtained his money by a very barefaced
procedure.

He seems to have moved powder and other materials of war from Windsor to the Tower, charged
for them on delivery at the latter place as if they had been freshly bought, and pocketed the proceeds.
On the other hand, it is fair to Painter to say that we only have
the word of his accusers for the statement, though both he and his
son own to certain undefined irregularities.

It is, at any rate, something in his favour that he remained in office
till his death, unless he was kept there on the principle of setting
a peculator to catch a peculator.

I fancy,
too, that the Earl of Warwick was implicated in his misdeeds, and saved
him from their consequences.

His works are but few. A translation from
the Latin account, by Nicholas Moffan, of the death of the Sultan
Solyman, [12] was made by him in 1557.

In 1560 an address in prose, prefixed to Dr. W. Fulke’ s Antiprognosticon, was signed“ Your familiar
friend, William Paynter,” [13] and dated“ From Sevenoke xxii. of Octobre;” and the same volume contains
Latin verses entitled“ Gulielmi Painteri, ludimagistri Seuenochensis Tetrastichon.” It is perhaps
worth while remarking that this Antiprognosticon was directed against Anthony Ascham, Roger’
s brother, which may perhaps account for some of the bitterness in
the above passage from the Scholemaster. These slight productions,
however, sink into insignificance in comparison with his chief work,“
The Palace of Pleasure.” [Footnote 12: Reprinted in the Second Tome
of the“ Palace,” infra, vol. iii. p. 395.] [Footnote 13: In his own
book, and in the document signed by him, the name is always“ Painter.”]
He seems to have started work on this before he left Seven Oaks in
1561.

For as early as 1562 he got a licence for a work to be entitled“ The Citye of Cyuelite,” as we
know from the following entry in the Stationers’ Registers:-- W.
Jonnes-- Receyued of Wylliam Jonnes for his lycense for pryntinge
of a boke intituled The Cytie of Cyuelitie translated into englisshe
by WILLIAM PAYNTER.

From his own history of the work given in the dedication of the first Tome to his patron, the
Earl of Warwick, it is probable that this was originally intended
to include only tales from Livy and the Latin historians.

He seems later to have determined on adding certain of Boccaccio’ s novels,
and the opportune appearance of a French translation of Bandello
in 1559 caused him to add half a dozen or so from the Bishop of Agen.
Thus a book which was originally intended to be another contribution to the New
Learning of classical antiquity turned out to be the most important
representative in English of the Newest Learning of Italy. With the
change of plan came a change of title, and the“ City of Civility,”
which was to have appeared in 1562, was replaced by the“ Palace of
Pleasure” in 1566.

[14] [Footnote 14: The Dedication is dated near the Tower of London 1 January
1566, which must have been new style (introduced into France two
years before).] The success of the book seems to have been immediate.

We have seen above Ascham’
s indignant testimony to this, and the appearance of the Second Tome,
half as large again as the other, within about eighteen months of
the First, confirms his account.

This Second
Tome was practically the Bandello volume; more than half of the tales,
and those by far the longest, were taken from him, through the medium
of his French translators, Boaistuau and Belleforest.

Within a couple of years another edition was called
for of the First Tome, which appeared in 1569, with the addition
of five more stories from the Heptameron, from which eleven were already
in the first edition.

Thus the First Tome might be called the Heptameron volume, and the second, that of Bandello.
Boccaccio is pretty evenly divided between the two, and the remainder
is made up of classic tales and anecdotes and a few novelle of Ser
Giovanni and Straparola.

Both
Tomes were reprinted in what may be called the definitive edition of
the work in 1575. Quite apart from its popularity and its influence
on the English stage, on which we shall have more to say shortly,
Painter’ s book deserves a larger place in the history of English
Literature than has as yet been given to it.

It introduced to England some of the best novels of Boccaccio, Bandello, and Queen Margaret,
three of the best raconteurs of short stories the world has ever
had.

It is besides the largest work in English prose that appeared between the Morte Darthur and
North’ s Plutarch. [15] Painter’ s style bears the impress of French models. Though professing to
be from Italian novellieri, it is mainly derived from French translations of them. Indeed,
but for the presence of translations from Ser Giovanni and Straparola,
it might be doubtful whether Painter translated from the Italian
at all.

He claims however to do this from Boccaccio, and as he owns the aid of a French“ crib” in the
case of Bandello, the claim may be admitted.

His translations
from the French are very accurate, and only err in the way of too much
literalness. [16] From a former dominie one would have expected a
far larger proportion of Latinisms than we actually find.

As
a rule, his sentences are relatively short, and he is tolerably free
from the vice of the long periods that were brought into vogue by“
Ciceronianism.” He is naturally free from Euphuism and for a very
good reason, since Euphues and his Englande was not published for
another dozen years or so.

The recent suggestion of Dr. Landmann and others that Euphuism came
from the influence of Guevara would seem to be negatived by the fact that
the“ Letters of Trajan” in the Second Tome of Painter are taken from
Guevara and are no more Euphuistic than the rest of the volume.

[Footnote 15: Always with the exception of exceptions, the Bishop’ s Bible.] [Footnote 16: Mr.
P. A. Daniel, in his edition of Painter’ s“ Romeo and Juliet,” in the New Shakespere Society’ s
Originals and Analogues, i., 1876, gives the few passages in which Painter has misunderstood
Boaistuau. For lexicographical use, however, it would be well to consult
Painter’ s original for any very striking peculiarities of his vocabulary.]
Painter’ s volume is practically the earliest volume of prose translations
from a modern language into English in the true Elizabethan period
after the influence of Caxton in literary importation had died away
with Bourchier the translator of Froissart and of Huon of Bordeaux.

It set the ball rolling in this direction, and found many followers, some of whom may be referred
to as having had an influence only second to that of Painter in providing plots for the Elizabethan
Drama. There can be little doubt that it was Painter set the fashion, and one of his chief
followers recognised this, as we shall see, on his title page.

The year in which Painter’ s Second Tome appeared saw George (afterwards Sir George) Fenton’ s
Certaine Tragicall Discourses writtene oute of Frenche and Latine
containing fourteen“ histories.” As four of these are identical with
tales contained in Painter’ s Second Tome it is probable that Fenton
worked independently, though it was doubtless the success of the“
Palace of Pleasure” that induced Thomas Marshe, Painter’ s printer,
to undertake a similar volume from Fenton.

The Tragicall Discourses ran into a second edition in 1569. T. Fortescue’ s Foreste or Collection
of Histories... dooen oute of Frenche appeared in 1571 and reached
a second edition in 1576.

In the latter year appeared a work of G. Pettie that bore on its title page-- A Petite Palace
of Pettie his Pleasure-- a clear reference to Painter’ s book. Notwithstanding
Anthony à Wood’ s contemptuous judgment of his great-uncle’ s book
it ran through no less than six editions between 1576 and 1613.

[17] The year after Pettie’ s first edition appeared R. Smyth’ s Stravnge and Tragicall histories
Translated out of French.

In 1576 was also published the first of George Whetstone’ s collections of tales, the four parts of
The Rocke of Regard, in which he told over again in verse several stories already better told by
Painter. In the same year, 1576, appeared G. Turberville’ s Tragical
Tales, translated out of sundrie Italians-- ten tales in verse, chiefly
from Boccaccio.

Whetstone’ s Heptameron of Ciuill Discourses in 1582 was however
a more important contribution to the English Novella, and it ran
through two further editions by 1593. [18] Thus in the quarter of a century
1565-1590 no less than eight collections, most of them running into
a second edition, made their appearance in England.

Painter’ s work contains more than all the rest put together, and
its success was the cause of the whole movement. It clearly answered
a want and thus created a demand. It remains to consider the want which
was thus satisfied by Painter and his school. [Footnote 17: The tales
are ten-- 1.

Sinorix and Camma [= Tennyson’ s Cup]; 2. Tereus and Progne; 3. Germanicus
and Agrippina; 4. Julius and Virginia; 5. Admetus and Alcest; 6. Silla
and Minos; 7. Curiatius and Horatia; 8. Cephalus and Procris; 9. Pigmalion
and his Image; 10.

Alexius.] [Footnote 18: M. Jusserand gives a list of most of these
translations of French and Italian novels in his just issued English
Novel in the Elizabethan Age, 1890, pp. 80-1.

He also refers to works by Rich and Gascoigne in which novels occur.]
The quarter of a century from 1565 to 1590 was the seed-time of the Elizabethan
Drama, which blossomed out in the latter year in Marlowe’ s Tamburlaine
the Great.

The only play which precedes that period, Gordobuc or Ferrex and Porrex, first played in 1561,
indicates what direction the English Drama would naturally have taken
if nothing had intervened to take it out of its course.

Gordobuc is severely classical in its unities; it is of the Senecan species. Now throughout Western
Europe this was the type of the modern drama, [19] and it dominated the more serious side of the
French stage down to the time of Victor Hugo. There can be little doubt that the English Drama
would have followed the classical models but for one thing. The flood
of Italian novelle introduced into England by Painter and his school,
imported a new condition into the problem.

It is essential to the Classical Drama that the plot should be already known to the audience, that there
should be but one main action, and but one tone, tragic or comic.

In Painter’ s work and those of his followers, the would-be dramatists of Elizabeth’ s time
had offered to them a super-abundance of actions quite novel to their audience, and alternating between
grave and gay, often within the same story. [20] The very fact of their foreignness was a further
attraction. At a time when all things were new, and intellectual curiosity had become a passion,
the opportunity of studying the varied life of an historic country like Italy lent an additional
charm to the translated novelle.

In an interesting essay on the“ Italy of the Elizabethan Dramatists,” [21] Vernon Lee remarks that it was
the very strangeness and horror of Italian life as compared with
the dull decorum of English households that had its attraction for
the Elizabethans.

She writes as if the dramatists were themselves acquainted with the life they depicted. As a
matter of fact, not a single one of the Elizabethan dramatists, as far as I know, was personally
acquainted with Italy. [22] This knowledge of Italian life and crime was almost entirely derived
from the works of Painter and his school. If there had been anything
corresponding to them dealing with the tragic aspects of English
life, the Elizabethan dramatists would have been equally ready to
tell of English vice and criminality.

They used Holinshed and Fabyan readily enough for their“ Histories.” They would have used an English
Bandello with equal readiness had he existed. But an English Bandello
could not have existed at a time when the English folk had not arrived
at self-consciousness, and had besides no regular school of tale-tellers
like the Italians.

It was then only from the Italians that the Elizabethan dramatists could have got a sufficient stock of plots
to allow for that interweaving of many actions into one which is the characteristic of the
Romantic Drama of Marlowe and his compeers. [Footnote 19: A partial exception is to be made in favour
of the Spanish school, which broke loose from the classical tradition with Lope de Vega.] [Footnote
20: It is probable however that the“ mixture of tones” came more directly from the Interludes.]
[Footnote 21: Euphorion, by Vernon Lee. Second edition, 1885, pp. 55-108.] [Footnote 22: It has, of
course, been suggested that Shakespeare visited Venice. But this is only one of the 1001 mare’
s nests of the commentators.] That Painter was the main source of
plot for the dramatists before Marlowe, we have explicit evidence.

Of the very few extant dramas before Marlowe, Appius and Virginia,
Tancred and Gismunda, and Cyrus and Panthea are derived from Painter.

[23] We have also references in contemporary literature showing the great impression made by Painter’
s book on the opponents of the stage. In 1572 E. Dering, in the Epistle prefixed to A briefe Instruction,
says:“ To this purpose we have gotten our Songs and Sonnets, our
Palaces of Pleasure, our unchaste Fables and Tragedies, and such like
sorceries.... O that there were among us some zealous Ephesian, that
books of so great vanity might be burned up.” As early as 1579 Gosson
began in his School of Abuse the crusade against stage-plays, which
culminated in Prynne’ s Histriomastix.

He was answered by Lodge in his Defence of Stage Plays. Gosson demurred
to Lodge in 1580 with his Playes Confuted in Five Actions, and in this
he expressly mentions Painter’ s Palace of Pleasure among the“ bawdie
comedies” that had been“ ransacked” to supply the plots of plays.

Unfortunately very few even of the titles of these early plays are
extant: they probably only existed as prompt-books for stage-managers,
and were not of sufficient literary value to be printed when the marriage
of Drama and Literature occurred with Marlowe.

[Footnote
23: Altogether in the scanty notices of this period we can trace a dozen derivatives
of Painter. See Analytical Table on Tome I. nov. iii., v., xi., xxxvii.,
xxxix., xl., xlviii., lvii.; Tome II. nov. i., iii., xiv., xxxiv.]
But we have one convincing proof of the predominating influence of
the plots of Painter and his imitators on the Elizabethan Drama.

Shakespeare’ s works in the first folio, and the editions derived from it, are, as is well known,
divided into three parts-- Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. The division is founded on a right
instinct, and applies to the whole Elizabethan Drama. [24] Putting aside the Histories, which derive
from Holinshed, North, and the other historians, the dramatis personæ of the Tragedies and Comedies
are, in nineteen cases out of twenty, provided with Italian names, and the scene is placed in Italy.
It had become a regular convention with the Elizabethans to give an
Italian habitation and name to the whole of their dramas.

This convention must have arisen in the pre-Marlowe days, and there
is no other reason to be given for it but the fact that the majority
of plots are taken from the“ Palace of Pleasure” or its followers.

A striking instance is mentioned by Charles Lamb of the tyranny of this convention. In the first
draught of his Every Man in his Humour Ben Jonson gave Italian names to all his dramatis personæ.
Mistress Kitely appeared as Biancha, Master Stephen as Stephano, and even the immortal Captain
Bobabil as Bobadilla. My lady
heard the order, and stood listening. Mr. Thomasson heard it, and stood quaking. At any moment
the door of the room in which the girl was supping might open--it was adjacent to the hall--and
she come out, and the two would meet. Nor did the suspense last a moment or two only. Fresh
horses could not be ready in a minute, even in those times, when day and night post-horses
stood harnessed in the stalls. Even Mr. Dunborough could not be served in a moment. So he roared
for a pint of claret and a crust, sent one servant flying this way, and another that, hectored
up and down the entrance, to the admiration of the peeping chambermaids; and for a while added
much to the bustle. Once in those minutes the fateful door did open, but it emitted only a
waiter. And in the end, Mr. Dunborough's horses being announced, he strode out, his spurs ringing
on the steps, and the viscountess heard him clatter away into the night, and drew a deep breath
of relief. For a day or two, at any rate, she was saved. For the time, the machinations of
the creature below stairs were baffled. 

'Who will forget,'he says,'the comparison of the Atreidae to the eagles
wheeling over their empty nest, of war to the money-changer whose
gold dust is that of human bodies, of Helen to the lion's whelps?... Everyone
knows these.

Who will match them among the formal elegances of Racine?'And it
is true that when Racine wished to create a great effect he did not
adopt the romantic method; he did not chase his ideas through the
four quarters of the universe to catch them at last upon the verge
of the inane; and anyone who hopes to come upon'fine surprises'of this
kind in his pages will be disappointed.

His daring is of a different kind; it is not the daring of adventure but of intensity; his
fine surprises are seized out of the very heart of his subject, and seized in a single stroke. Thus
many of his most astonishing phrases burn with an inward concentration of energy, which, difficult
at first to realise to the full, comes in the end to impress itself
ineffaceably upon the mind.

C'était
pendant l'horreur d'une profonde nuit.

The sentence is like a cavern whose mouth a careless traveller might pass by, but which opens
out, to the true explorer, into vista after vista of strange recesses
rich with inexhaustible gold.

But, sometimes, the phrase, compact as dynamite, explodes upon one with an immediate and terrific
force-- C'est Vénus toute entière à sa proie attachée!

A few'formal elegances'of this kind are surely worth having.

But what is it that makes the English reader fail to recognise the
beauty and the power of such passages as these?

Besides Racine's lack of extravagance and bravura, besides his dislike of exaggerated emphasis and far-fetched
or fantastic imagery, there is another characteristic of his style to which we are perhaps even
more antipathetic-- its suppression of detail. The great majority of poets-- and especially
of English poets-- produce their most potent effects by the accumulation of details-- details
which in themselves fascinate us either by their beauty or their
curiosity or their supreme appropriateness.

With such qualifications, Dr. Addington was not slow to perceive Sir George's absence of mind;
and presuming on old friendship--he had attended the younger man from boyhood--he began to
probe for the cause. Raising his half-filled glass to the light, and rolling the last mouthful
on his tongue, 'I am afraid,' he said, 'that what I heard in town was true?'

'What was it?' Soane asked, rousing himself.

'I heard, Sir George, that my Lady Hazard had proved an inconstant mistress of late?'

'Yes. Hang the jade! And yet--we could not live without her!'

'They are saying that you lost three thousand to my Lord March, the night before you left town?'

'Halve it.'

'Indeed? Still--an expensive mistress?'

'Can you direct me to a cheap one?' Sir George said rather crustily.

'No. But doesn't it occur to you a wife with money--might be cheaper?' the doctor asked with
a twinkle in his eye.

Sir George shrugged his shoulders for answer, and turning from the table--the servant had withdrawn--brushed
the crumbs from his breeches, and sat staring at the lire, his glass in his hand. 'I suppose--it
will come to that presently,' he said, sipping his wine.

'Very soon,' the doctor answered, drily, 'unless I am in error.'

Sir George looked at him. 'Come, doctor!' he said. 'You know something! What is it?'

'I know that it is town talk that you lost seven thousand last season; and God knows how many
thousands in the three seasons before it!'

'Well, one must live,' Sir George answered lightly.

'But not at that rate.'

'In that state of life, doctor, into which God has been pleased--you know the rest.'

'In that state of life into which the devil!' retorted the doctor with heat.' If I thought
that my boy would ever grow up to do nothing better than--than--but there, forgive me. I grow
warm when I think of the old trees, and the old pictures, and the old Halls that you fine gentlemen
at White's squander in a night! And they three dwelling still at Florence, began agayne to forget
to what miserie their inordinate expences hadde brought them before.

And albeit they were charged with housholde, yet they spent out of order, and without respect,
and were of great credite with euery Marchaunt: whose expences, the
money that Alexandro many times did send home, did helpe to supporte
for certaine yeares, which was lent out to diuers gentlemen and Barons
of the countrey, vpon their Castelles, Manours, and other reuenues,
wherof was receiued an incredible profite.

In the meane time the three brethren spent so largely, as they borowed
money of other, fixing all their hope from Englande.

It chaunced that warres happened betwene the king of England, and
one of his sonnes, whiche bredde muche diuision in that lande, some
holding of one parte, and some of an other.

By meanes whereof, all the Manours and morgaged landes, were taken
awaye from Alexandro, hauing nothing wher vpon any profite did ryse.

Howebeit he dailye trusted that peace shoulde bee concluded betweene
the father and the sonne, and that all thinges should be surrendred,
as well the principall as the interest: determining vppon that hope
not to departe the Countrie.

The three brethren whiche were at Florence, not limitting any order to their disordinate expences,
grewe daylye worse and worse. But in processe of tyme, when all hope was paste of their recouerye,
they loste not onely their credite, but the creditours desirous to be payde, were fayne to sende
them to pryson.

And because their inheritaunce was not sufficient to paye the whole
debte, they remayned in pryson for the reste, and their wiues and
children wer dispersed, some into the countrie, and some hether and
thether, out of order, not knowing how to do, but to abide a poore
and miserable life for euer.

Alexandro which of long time taried for a peace in Englande, and
seing that it came not to passe, considering also with him selfe (ouer
and besides his vaine abode, for recouerie of his debtes) that he
was in daunger of his life, he purposed to retourne into Italie.

And as he trauailed by the waye alone, and departed from Bruges,
by fortune he perceiued an abbot clothed in white, in like maner about
to take his iourney, accompanied with many Monkes, and a great traine:
hauing much cariage and diuers baggages before.

After whome rode twoo olde knightes, the kinsmen of the king, with whom Alexandro entred acquaintance
by reason of former knowledge, and was receiued into their companie. Alexandro then riding
with them frendlye, demaunded what Monkes they were that rode before with so great a trayne, and
whether they went. To whome one of the knightes aunswered, that he which rode before, was a
yonge gentleman their kinsman, which was newly chosen Abbot of one of the best Abbaies in
England. And because he was verie yonge, and not capable by the decrees, of suche a dignitie,
they went with him to Rome, to obteine of the holy father a dispensation
for his age, and for a confirmation of that office.

But they willed him to disclose the same to no man. And so this newe Abbot, riding sometimes before
and sometimes after, as wee see ordinarelie that Lordes doe when
they trauell in the countrie, it chaunced that the Abbot espying Alexandro
riding besides him, which was a faire yonge man, honest, curteous,
and familier, who at the first meting did so marueilously delight
him, as any thing that euer he sawe in his life, and calling him vnto
him, he began familiarly to talke, and asked what he was, from whence
he came, and whether he went.

To whom Alexandro declared liberally all his state, and satisfied his demaunde, offering vnto
him (although his power was litle) al the seruice he was able to do. The Abbot hearing his
courteous offer and comely talke, placed in good order, considering
more particulerly the state of his affaires, and waying with him selfe,
that albeit his traine was small yet neuerthelesse he semed to be
a gentleman, and then pitying his mishappes, he recomforted him familiarly,
and saide vnto him: That hee ought dailye to liue in good hope, for
if he were an honest man, God would aduaunce him againe not only to
that place from whence fortune had throwen him downe, but also to
greater estimation: praying him that sithens he was going into Thuscane,
whether he likewyse went, that it would please him to remaine in his
companie.

Alexandro thanked him humblie of his comfort, and said vnto him that he was redie to imploy
him selfe where it should please him to commaunde.

The Abbot thus riding, (into whose minde newe thoughts entred vpon
the sight of Alexandro) it chaunced, after manie daies iournies, they
arriued at a village that was but meanly furnished with lodging.

The Abbot desirous to lodge there, Alexandro intreated him to light
at the Inne of an hoste which was familiarly knowen vnto him, and
caused a chamber to be made redie for him selfe in the worste place
of the house.

And the Marshall of the Abbot’ s lodgings, being alreadie come to the towne, (which was a man
very skilfull in those affaires) he lodged al the traine in that
village, one here, an other there, so well as he could.

And by that time the Abbot had supped, night was farre spente, and euerie man repaired to his
lodging. Alexandro demaunded the hoste wher he should lie?

To whom the hoste made aunswere“ Of a trouthe Maister Alexandro I knowe not, for you see that all
my house is so full, as I and my housholde are faine to lie vpon
the benches: howe be it, I haue certaine garrettes, harde adioyning
to the lorde Abbottes chamber, where I may place you very well, and
I wyll cause my folkes to beare thither a pallet, where if you please,
you may lodge this night.” To whome Alexandro said.“ But how shall
I passe through the Abbot’ s chamber, the rowme being so streight
as not one of his Monkes is able to lie there.

But if I had knowen it before, the Curteins had bene drawen, I would
haue caused his Monkes to haue lien in the Garret, and I my self
would haue lodged where they do.” Wherunto the hoste saide,“ It is
doen nowe, but (me thinke) you may if you liste lie there so well,
as in any place of the house.

The Abbot being asleepe, and the Courteins drawen, I wyll softly and without noyse conueye a pallette
thyther.” Alexandro perceiuing that the same might be done, without any anoiaunce to the Abbot,
agreed and conueyed him selfe, so secretlye as hee coulde, through
the chamber.

The abbot whiche was not a sleepe (but gaue him selfe to thinke
and imagine vpon his newe desires) heard the wordes that were spoken,
betweene the hoste and Alexandro, and likewise vnderstanding where Alexandro
lay, was verie well contente in him selfe, and began to saye:“ The
Lorde hath sent me a tyme fauourable to satisfie my desyres, whiche
if I doe not nowe receiue, peraduenture the like will neuer be offred
againe.” Wherfore perswading with him selfe to take that present occasion,
and supposing likewyse, that euery man was a sleepe, he called Alexandro
so softlie as he could, and willed him to come and lie beside him:
who after many excuses, when his clothes were of came vnto him.

The Abbot laying his arme ouer him, began to attempte suche amorous toyes, as be accustomed betweene
twoo louers: whereof Alexandro meruayled muche, and doubted that the
Abbot being surprysed with dishonest loue, had called him to his bedde
of purpose to proue him. Whiche doubt the Abbot (either by presumption, or
some other acte done by Alexandro) vnderstanding: incontinently began
to smyle, and to putte of his shyrte whiche he ware, and toke Alexandro’
s hande, and laide it ouer his stomacke, saying vnto him:“ Alexandro,
cast out of thy mynde thy vnhonest thought, and fele here the thing
which I haue secrete.” Alexandro laying his hande ouer the Abbottes
stomacke, perceiued that he had twoo breastes, rounde and harde,
the skinne whereof was verie fine and tender, whereby he perceiued
that hee was a woman, whom incontinently hee embraced, and without
looking for any other inuitation, he would haue kissed her, but she
saide vnto him:“ Before thou approche any nearer, marke what I shall
saye vnto thee.

I am a woman and not a man, as thou maiest perceiue, but being departed a maid from my house, I am going
to the Pope, to praye him to place me in mariage. But when I first viewed thee, the other
daye, whether it was through thy good fortune, or my mishap, loue attached me in suche wyse as neuer
woman loued man, as I do thee, and therefore I do purpose to take thee to husbande
before all other: but if thou wilt not take me to wife get the hence
and retourne to thyne owne bedde.” Alexandro although hee knewe her
not, yet hauing regarde vnto the companie and traine that folowed her, iudged
her to be some noble and riche Ladie: on the other parte, he sawe that
she was a personage right beautifull and faire, therefore without any
further consideration, he answered.“ That for so muche as her pleasure
was such, he was verie well contented.” Shee then sitting vp in her
bedde, hauing a litle table (wherin the picture of Christe was painted)
indowed him with a ringe, doing the order of espousalles, and afterwards
embracing one an other, to their great contentation and pleasure,
they ioyfully continued together that night.

And after they had deuised and concluded the order and meanes to order their affaires from that
time foorth, Alexandro, so sone as it was daye, rose vp and went
out of the chamber that waye he came in, without knowledge to any
man where he lay that night.

Then right ioyfull and glad, he proceaded in his iourney with the abbot
and his companye, and within fewe daies arriued at Rome. And when
they had remained there a certain time, the Abbot taking with him
but the twoo knightes and Alexandro, went to the Pope: where doing
to him their due reuerence, the Abbot began to speake in this wyse.“
Holie father (as your holinesse doth better knowe then any other) euery
man that purposeth to liue an honest life, ought to auoyde (so muche
as lieth in him) all occasions that may drawe him to the contrary. Which
to th’ intent I that am desirous to leade an honest life, may fully
performe, am secretly fled and arriued here, in the habite wherin
you see, with a good porcion of the king of Englandes treasure, who
is my father: that your holines may bestow me in mariage, for so muche
as my father woulde giue me to wife (which am a yonge gentlewoman
as you see) to the Scottishe king, a very riche and welthy Prince,
but yet very olde and decrepite.

And his olde age was not so much the occasion of my departure, as the feare
which I conceiued (through the frailtie of my youth to be maried vnto
him,) to commit a thing that should be contrarie to the lawe of God,
and the honour of the bloud roiall of my father. And in coming hitherwardes,
being in this deepe deliberation with myself, almighty God, who only
knoweth assuredly, what is nedeful and necessary for vs al, did place
before mine eies (through his gracious mercy as I trust,) him that
he thinketh mete to be my husband, which is this yonge gentleman (pointing
to Alexandro) whom you see standing besides me.

The honestie and worthinesse of whome is well able to matche with any great lady, how honorable
so euer she be, although per aduenture, the nobilitie of his bloud
is not so excellent as that which procedeth from the roiall and Princely
stock.

Him then haue I chosen to be my husband, him I will haue and none other, whatsoeuer my father
shall say, or any other to the contrarie. Wherefore the principall occasion that moued me to
come hither, is now dispatched. But I will accomplishe and performe the rest of my voyage, as well
to visite the holy and reuerent places (wherof this citie is ful)
and your holinesse: as also that the contract of mariage (hitherto
only made in the presence of God, betwene Alexandro and me,) may be
consumate openly in the presence of you, and consequently in the sight
of all men: Wherfore I humbly beseche your fatherhode, to be agreable
vnto that whiche it hath pleased God and mee to bring to passe, and
that you would giue vs your benediction, to the intent we may liue
together in the honour of God, to the perfection and ende of our life.”
Alexandro greatly marueiled, when he vnderstoode that his wife was
the doughter of the king of Englande, and was rapte with an vnspeakeable
ioye.

But much more marueiled the two knightes, which were so troubled and appalled, that if they had
bene in any place els, sauing in the presence of the Pope, they woulde haue killed Alexandro,
and peraduenture the lady her self. On the other part the Pope was verie much astonned, both
at the habite and apparell of the Lady, and also of her choise. But knowing that the same could not
be vndone, he was content to satisfie her request. And first of all
he comforted the two knightes, whom he knewe to be moued at the matter,
and reduced them in amitie, with the lady and Alexandro: then he gaue
order what was beste to be done.

And when the mariage daie, by him appointed, was come, hee caused the Ladie to issue forth, clothed
in roiall vestures, before al the Cardinalles, and many other great personages that were repayred to
the great feaste, of purpose by hym prepared. Whiche Ladie appeared to be so fayre and comelie that
not without deserte shee was praysed and commended of all the assemblie.
In like maner Alexandro, gorgeouslie apparelled, both in outwarde apparaunce
and condicions, was not like one that had lent monie to Vsurie, but
of a more Princelie grace and was greatelye honoured of those twoo knightes,
where the Pope solempnely celebrated (againe) the espousalles.

And after that ryche and royall mariage was ended, he gaue them leaue
to departe. It seemed good to Alexandro, and likewise to the Lady, to
goe from Rome to Florence, in whiche citie, the brute of that accidente
was alreadie noysed, where being receiued of the citizens with great
honour, the Ladie deliuered the three brethren out of prison, and
hauing firste payde euerie man their debte, they with their wiues,
were repossessed in their former inheritaunce.

Then Alexandro and his wife, with the good will and ioyfull gratulations of all men departed
from Florence, and taking with them Agolante, one of their vncles, arriued at Paris, where
they were honourably interteigned of the Frenche king.

From thence the twoo knightes went into England, and so perswaded the king, that they recouered
his good will towardes his doughter: and sending for his sonne in lawe, hee receiued them both
with great ioy and triumphe. And within a whyle after, he inuested his saide sonne with the order
of knight hode, and made him Earle of Cornewale, whose wisedome proued
so great, as hee pacified the father, and the sonne whereof insued,
surpassing profite and commoditie for the whole Realme, whereby also
he gained and got the loue and good will of all the people; and Agolante
his vncle, fully recouered all debtes, due vnto him in Englande. And the
Earle when he had made his vncle knightes suffered him to retourne in
riche estate to Florence.

The Earle afterwardes liued with his wife in great prosperitie (and
as some do affirme) both by his own pollicie and valiaunce, and with
the aide of his father in lawe, he recouered and ouercame the Realme of Scotlande,
and was there crowned Kyng.

THE THIRTY-FIFTH NOUELL. It is supposed, that the sea coast of Reggium (in Calabria) in the most
delectable part in all Italy, wherin (hard by Salerno) there is a countrye by the Sea Side, which
the inhabitauntes doe terme the coast of Malfy, so full of litle cities, gardeines, fountaines,
riche men and marchauntes, as any other people and countrie. Among
which said cities, there was one called Rauello, where in time past
(althoughe in these dayes there be very rich men), there dwelte a
notable man of substaunce, called Landolpho Ruffolo: who being not
contented with his riches, but desirous to multiplye them double,
was in hazarde to lose himselfe, and all that he had.

This man, (as all other marchauntes be accustomed) after he had considered
with himselfe what to doe, boughte a very greate shippe, and sraughted
the same with sondrye kindes of marchaundize of his owne aduenture,
and made a voyage to the Isle of Cypri, where he found (besides the
commodities which he brought) many other shippes arriued there, laden
with such like wares: by which occasion it happened, that hee was
forced not onelye to sell the same good cheape, but also was constrained
(if hee woulde dispatch his goodes) to giue them almost for nought,
whereby he thoughte that he was vtterly vndone.

And being greatly troubled for that losse, not knowing what to doe, and seing how in so litle
a time, of a rich man he was come to begger state, he thoughte either to die, or els by piracie to
recouer his losses, to the intent he might not returne to the place
poore, from whence he was departed riche. And hauing founde a copeseman
for his great barque, with the money thereof, and with other which
hee receiued for his marchandise, he boughte a small pinnas, meete
for the vse of a pirate, which he armed and furnished with al thinges
necessary for that purpose: and determined to make himselfe riche
with the goodes of other men, and chiefelye hee ment to set vppon
the Turkes: whereunto fortune was more fauourable then to his former
trade: and by chaunce, by the space of one yeare, he robbed and toke
so many Foistes and galleis of the Turkes, as he had recouered not
onely that which he loste by marchaundise, but also more then twise
so muche as whereunto those losses did amounte.

Wherfore, well punished with the first sorow of his losses, knowing his gaines to multiplie, as
he needed not returne the seconde time, he thoughte with himselfe that the same which he had gotten
was sufficiente: and therefore determined presently to returne to his owne house with his gotten
goods. And fearing the hinderance which he susteined in traffique of Marchaundise, hee purposed
to imploie his moneye no longer that wayes, but in that barque wherewith
hee had gained the same, with his ores hee tooke his course homeward:
and being vppon the maine Sea, in the night the wind rose at the Southeast,
which was not onely contrary to his course, but also raised such a
tempest, as his smal barque was not able to indure the Seas.

Wheruppon he toke harborough in a Creke of the Sea, whiche compassed a litle Ilande, there expecting
for better wind. Into which creke within a while after, with much a do for auoyding of that tempest,
arriued two great Argoseis of Genoa, that were come from Constantinople: the mariners of which
greate shippes, when they sawe the litle barque, they closed vp the waye,
that the pinnas could not goe out. And then vnderstanding of whence
he was, and knowinge by report, that he was very riche, determined
(being men naturally giuen to spoile and loue of money,) to take her.

And setting a shore part of their men, well armed and furnished with crossebowes, they conueied
themselues to keepe and defende that none within the Pinnas (except they
woulde be shot through) was able to escape: then retiring into their skiftes,
with helpe of the Tide they approched Landolpho his barque, which
without any great difficultie, in a small space they toke with all the
company, not loosing so much as one man.

And carying Landolpho aborde one of their cockes, and all within borde his little Pinnas, they
soncke the same and al the Mariners, and kept Landolpho, suffering him not to haue about him any
kind of armure, not so much as an haberion. The next day the winde chaunged, and the shippes
hoisted vp sailes toward Leuant, and all that day prosperouslie sailed
on their voyage.

But vpon the closing of the night, a storme rose againe, and separated
the two ships, one from another, and by force of the wind, it chaunced
the ship wherein poore Landolpho was, strake with great violence vpon
a sande, in the Iland of Cephalonia: and as one would throw a glasse
against a wall, euen so the shippe opened, and fell in peeces, whereby
the sorowfull Mariners that stoode aboue, (the seas being couered
with goodes, coaffers and plancks of the ship that swam aboue water,
which chaunceth many times in such like accidents, the night being
darke and the billowes going high and streinable,{)} such as were
able to swim, began to take holde of those thinges which Fortune gaue
vnto them.

Amonges whom wretched Landolpho, seinge death before his face (which he so greatly desired, and
so many times craued the day before, rather then to retourne home in
that poore estate) was afraied, and caught hold of a borde amonges the
rest, trusting it might chaunce that God woulde pardon him of drowninge,
and sende him some refuge for his escape.

And as hee was a horseback, and fletinge vpon a plancke, so wel as he
could, (driuen here and there with the Sea and winde) he helde faste
the same till it was day lighte: which when he perceiued, he looked
about him and saw nothing but the cloudes, the Seas, and a coaffer,
swimminge aboue water, which was driuen so nere him, that it made
him manye times to feare that it would be his ouerthrow.

And the nerer it came, the more hee laboured to put it backe (so well as he
could) with his hande, although his force and power was gone: but how
soeuer it chaunced, a gale of winde blew out of the skies, and strake
the coaffer against the borde whereuppon Landolpho was, who by that
meanes driuen backe, was forced to giue ouer the plancke, and with a
billow was beaten vnder the water, and afterwardes, remounting aloft
againe, hee swam more through feare then force. And seing the borde caried
a farre of from him, fearinge lest he should not be able to fasten
the same againe, he drewe toward the coafer which was nere ynough
vnto him, and laying his breaste vpon the couer thereof, he made it
go (so right as he could) with his armes.

And in this maner driuen by the Sea, now here now there, without eating (as hauing not wherwithall)
and drinking more then he would, he continued al that day and night following not knowing wher
he was, for he sawe nothing but sea. The next morning, eyther by
the will of God, or throughe the windes force, Landolpho (which was
then transfformed into a sponge) holding faste with both his handes
the brimme of the coafer, (like as we see them that feare to be drowned,
do take hold of the next thinge that commeth to hande,) arriued at
the shore of the Isle of Corfu, wher by fortune, a poore woman was
scowring her vessell with Sand and salt water, who seing him draw
nere, and perceyuing in him no forme or fashion of a man, was afraid,
and crying out ranne backe.

He not able to speake, and see but very litle, could say nothinge, but as the Sea droue him
nere the shore, the woman discryed the likenes of a coafer, and beholding
the same more aduisedlye, saw at length his armes vpon the same and
therewithal his face, marueiling with her selfe who it should be: wherfore
moued with compassion, she wente into the Sea a litle waye, which
then was calme, and catching him by the heare, she pluckte him and
the coafer to lande: and with much a doe vnfolded his armes that were
about the coafer, causing her maide that was with her to carrie the coafer
vpon her head: and she bare him to lande, (like a litle childe,)
which done, she put him into a hotte house, and with warme water,
by frotting and robbing him, his naturall heate, and other his sences
lost, began to come againe into their former course.

And when he saw time she toke him out, cherishing and comfortinge him with wynes and brothes,
and so well as shee could, made him at length to recouer his force in such wise as he knew wher
he was. Then the woman deliuered him his coafer, which he had saued,
and badde him to seeke his aduenture.

And thus this good wife delt with Landolpho, who litle esteemed the coafer, but yet he considered that
it coulde not be of so small value, but that it was able to beare his charges for certaine
dayes. Howbeit, feelinge it to be lighte, he was cleare voyde of
hope to haue anye succour and reliefe thereof. Neuerthelesse (when the
good wyfe was out of the doores) he brake open the same to see what
was within, where he found many precious Jewels, some bound together
and some loose, wherein he had pretie skill: and knowing them to be
of great value, giuing thanckes to God, which had not yet forsaken
him, was wholy recomforted.

Howbeit, for so much as in a litle space he had bin twise cruellye distressed
and tormented by Fortune, fearing the third time, he thought that
it was needeful for him to take heede how to dispose his things in
safetie till he came home to his owne house.

Wherefore hauing bestowed those precious Jewels in certaine ragges and cloutes so well as he could,
he said to the good wife that he had no neede of the coafer, but if shee woulde giue him
a bagge, he would bestow the same vppon her: which the good wife willingly
did.

 No doubt there would be gibing at White's, and shrugging at Almack's; but a fico, too,
for that--it would not hurt him at Guadeloupe, and little at Genoa. And then on a sudden the
fortune of which she had talked came into his head, and he smiled. It might be a thousand;
or two, three, four, at most five thousand. A fortune! He smiled and looked at her.

He found her gazing steadily at him, her chin on her hand. Being caught, she reddened and looked,
away. He took the man's privilege, and continued to gaze, and she to flush; and presently,
'What are you looking at?' she said, moving uneasily.

'A most beautiful face,' he answered, with the note of sincerity in his voice which a woman's
ear never fails to appreciate.

She rose and curtsied low, perhaps to hide the tell-tale pleasure in her eyes. 'Thank you,
sir,' she said. And she drew back as if she intended to leave him.

'But you are not--you are not offended, Julia?'

'Julia?' she answered, smiling. 'No, but I think it is time I relieved your Highness from attendance.
For one thing, I am not quite sure whether that pretty flattery was addressed to Clarissa--or
to Pamela. And for another,' she continued more coldly, seeing Sir George wince under this
first stroke--he was far from having his mind made up--'I see Lady Dunborough watching us from
the windows at the corner of the house. And I would not for worlds relieve her ladyship's anxiety
by seeming unfaithful to her son.'

'You can be spiteful, then?' Soane said, laughing.

'I can--and grateful,' she answered. 'In proof of which I am going to make a strange request,
Sir George. Do not misunderstand it. And yet--it is only that before you leave here--whatever
be the circumstances under which you leave--you will see me for five minutes.'

Sir George stared, bowed, and muttered 'Too happy.' Then observing, or fancying he observed,
that she was anxious to be rid of him, he took his leave and went into the house.

For a man who had descended the stairs an hour before, hipped to the last degree, with his
mind on a pistol, it must be confessed that he went up with a light step; albeit, in a mighty
obfuscation, as Dr. Johnson might have put it. A kinder smile, more honest eyes he swore he
had never seen, even in a plain face. Her very blushes, of which the memory set his blasé blood
dancing to a faster time, were a character in themselves. But--he wondered. She had made such
advances, been so friendly, dropped such hints--he wondered. He was fresh from the masquerades,
from Mrs. Cornely's assemblies, Lord March's converse, the Chudleigh's fantasies; the girl
had made an appointment--he wondered.

For all that, one thing was unmistakable. Life, as he went up the stairs, had taken on another
and a brighter colour; was fuller, brisker, more generous. From a spare garret with one poor
casement it had grown in an hour into a palace, vague indeed, but full of rich vistas and rosy
distances and quivering delights. The corridor upstairs, which at his going out had filled
him with distaste--there were boots in it, and water-cans--was now the Passage Beautiful; for
he might meet her there. The day which, when he rose, had lain before him dull and monotonous--since
Lord Chatham was too ill to see him, and he had no one with whom to game--was now full-furnished
with interest, and hung with recollections--recollections of conscious eyes and the sweetest
lips in the world. In a word, Julia had succeeded in that which she had set herself to do.
Sir George might wonder. He was none the less in love.

CHAPTER XIII

A SPOILED CHILD

Julia was right in fancying that she saw Lady Dunborough's face at one of the windows in the
south-east corner of the house. Those windows commanded both the Marlborough High Street and
the Salisbury road, welcomed alike the London and the Salisbury coach, overlooked the loungers
at the entrance to the town, and supervised most details of the incoming and outgoing worlds.
Lady Dunborough had not been up and about half-an-hour before she remarked these advantages.
In an hour her ladyship was installed in that suite, which, though in the east wing, was commonly
reckoned to be one of the best in the house. Heaven knows how she did it. There is a pertinacity,
shameless and violent, which gains its ends, be the crowd between never so dense. When we find so
eminent a critic as M. Lemaître observing that Racine'a vraiment "achevé" et porté à son
point suprême de perfection la tragédie, cette étonnante forme d'art, et qui est bien de chez
nous: car on la trouve peu chez les Anglais,'is it surprising that we should hastily jump to
the conclusion that the canons and the principles of a criticism
of this kind will not repay, and perhaps do not deserve, any careful
consideration?

Certainly they are not calculated to spare the susceptibilities of Englishmen. And, after all,
this is only natural; a French critic addresses a French audience; like a Rabbi in a synagogue,
he has no need to argue and no wish to convert. Perhaps, too, whether he willed or no, he could
do very little to the purpose; for the difficulties which beset an Englishman in his endeavours
to appreciate a writer such as Racine are precisely of the kind which a Frenchman is least
able either to dispel or even to understand.

The object of this essay is, first, to face these difficulties, with the aid of Mr. Bailey's paper,
which sums up in an able and interesting way the average English
view of the matter; and, in the second place, to communicate to the
English reader a sense of the true significance and the immense value
of Racine's work.

Whether the attempt succeed or fail, some important general questions of literary doctrine will
have been discussed; and, in addition, at least an effort will have been made to vindicate
a great reputation. For, to a lover of Racine, the fact that English critics of Mr. Bailey's
calibre can write of him as they do, brings a feeling not only of
entire disagreement, but of almost personal distress.

Strange as it may seem to those who have been accustomed to think of that great artist merely
as a type of the frigid pomposity of an antiquated age, his music, to ears that are attuned
to hear it, comes fraught with a poignancy of loveliness whose peculiar quality is shared by
no other poetry in the world.

To have grown familiar with the voice of Racine, to have realised once and for all its intensity,
its beauty, and its depth, is to have learnt a new happiness, to
have discovered something exquisite and splendid, to have enlarged
the glorious boundaries of art.

For such benefits as these who would not be grateful?

Who would not seek to make them known to others, that they too may
enjoy, and render thanks?

M. Lemaître, starting out, like a native of the mountains, from a point which can only be reached
by English explorers after a long journey and a severe climb, devotes
by far the greater part of his book to a series of brilliant psychological
studies of Racine's characters.

He leaves on one side almost altogether the questions connected both with Racine's dramatic
construction, and with his style; and these are the very questions
by which English readers are most perplexed, and which they are most
anxious to discuss.

His style in particular-- using the word in its widest sense-- forms the subject of the principal
part of Mr. Bailey's essay; it is upon this count that the real force
of Mr. Bailey's impeachment depends; and, indeed, it is obvious that
no poet can be admired or understood by those who quarrel with the
whole fabric of his writing and condemn the very principles of his
art.

Before, however, discussing this, the true crux of the question, it may be well to consider briefly
another matter which deserves attention, because the English reader
is apt to find in it a stumbling-block at the very outset of his
inquiry.

Coming to Racine with Shakespeare and the rest of the Elizabethans warm in his memory, it is only
to be expected that he should be struck with a chilling sense of
emptiness and unreality.

After the colour, the moving multiplicity, the imaginative luxury of our early tragedies, which
seem to have been moulded out of the very stuff of life and to have been built up with the
varied and generous structure of Nature herself, the Frenchman's dramas, with their rigid uniformity
of setting, their endless duologues, their immense harangues, their spectral confidants, their
strict exclusion of all visible action, give one at first the same sort of impression as a pretentious
pseudo-classical summer-house appearing suddenly at the end of a vista, after one has been
rambling through an open forest.'La scène est à Buthrote, ville d'Epire, dans une salle du
palais de Pyrrhus'-- could anything be more discouraging than such
an announcement?

Here is nothing for the imagination to feed on, nothing to raise expectation, no wondrous vision
of'blasted heaths,'or the'seaboard of Bohemia'; here is only a hypothetical
drawing-room conjured out of the void for five acts, simply in order
that the persons of the drama may have a place to meet in and make
their speeches.

The'three unities'and the rest of the'rules'are a burden which the English reader finds himself quite
unaccustomed to carry; he grows impatient of them; and, if he is a critic, he points out the futility
and the unreasonableness of those antiquated conventions. Even Mr. Bailey, who, curiously enough, believes
that Racine'stumbled, as it were, half by accident into great advantages'by using them, speaks
of the'discredit'into which'the once famous unities'have now fallen, and declares that'the unities
of time and place are of no importance in themselves.'So far as critics
are concerned this may be true; but critics are apt to forget that
plays can exist somewhere else than in books, and a very small acquaintance
with contemporary drama is enough to show that, upon the stage at any
rate, the unities, so far from having fallen into discredit, are now
in effect triumphant. For what is the principle which underlies and
justifies the unities of time and place?

Surely it is not, as Mr. Bailey would have us believe, that of the'unity
of action or interest,'for it is clear that every good drama, whatever
its plan of construction, must possess a single dominating interest,
and that it may happen-- as in Antony and Cleopatra, for instance--
that the very essence of this interest lies in the accumulation of
an immense variety of local activities and the representation of long
epochs of time.

The true justification for the unities of time and place is to be
found in the conception of drama as the history of a spiritual crisis--
the vision, thrown up, as it were, by a bull's-eye lantern, of the
final catastrophic phases of a long series of events. Very different
were the views of the Elizabethan tragedians, who aimed at representing not
only the catastrophe, but the whole development of circumstances of
which it was the effect; they traced, with elaborate and abounding
detail, the rise, the growth, the decline, and the ruin of great causes
and great persons; and the result was a series of masterpieces unparalleled
in the literature of the world.

But, for good or evil, these methods have become obsolete, and to-day our drama seems to be developing
along totally different lines. It is playing the part, more and more consistently, of the bull's-eye
lantern; it is concerned with the crisis, and nothing but the crisis;
and, in proportion as its field is narrowed and its vision intensified,
the unities of time and place come more and more completely into
play.

Thus, from the point of view of form, it is true to say that it
has been the drama of Racine rather than that of Shakespeare that has survived.
Plays of the type of Macbeth have been superseded by plays of the type of
Britannicus. Britannicus, no less than Macbeth, is the tragedy of a criminal;
but it shows us, instead of the gradual history of the temptation
and the fall, followed by the fatal march of consequences, nothing
but the precise psychological moment in which the first irrevocable
step is taken, and the criminal is made.

The method of Macbeth has been, as it were, absorbed by that of the modern
novel; the method of Britannicus still rules the stage.

But Racine carried out his ideals more rigorously and more boldly than any of his successors.
He fixed the whole of his attention upon the spiritual crisis; to him that alone was of importance;
and the conventional classicism so disheartening to the English reader-- the'unities,'the harangues,
the confidences, the absence of local colour, and the concealment of the action-- was no more
than the machinery for enhancing the effect of the inner tragedy, and for doing away with every side
issue and every chance of distraction. His dramas must be read as one looks at an airy, delicate
statue, supported by artificial props, whose only importance lies
in the fact that without them the statue itself would break in pieces
and fall to the ground. Approached in this light, even the'salle du palais
de Pyrrhus'begins to have a meaning.

We come to realise that, if it is nothing else, it is at least the meeting-ground of great passions,
the invisible framework for one of those noble conflicts which'make
one little room an everywhere.'It will show us no views, no spectacles,
it will give us no sense of atmosphere or of imaginative romance;
but it will allow us to be present at the climax of a tragedy, to
follow the closing struggle of high destinies, and to witness the
final agony of human hearts.

It is remarkable that Mr. Bailey, while seeming to approve of the classicism of Racine's dramatic
form, nevertheless finds fault with him for his lack of a quality
with which, by its very nature, the classical form is incompatible.
Racine's vision, he complains, does not'take in the whole of life'; we
do not find in his plays'the whole pell-mell of human existence';
and this is true, because the particular effects which Racine wished to
produce necessarily involved this limitation of the range of his interests.
His object was to depict the tragic interaction of a small group
of persons at the culminating height of its intensity; and it is as
irrational to complain of his failure to introduce into his compositions'the
whole pell-mell of human existence'as it would be to find fault with
a Mozart quartet for not containing the orchestration of Wagner.

But it is a little difficult to make certain of the precise nature of Mr. Bailey's criticism. When
he speaks of Racine's vision not including'the whole of life,'when he declares that Racine cannot
be reckoned as one of the'world-poets,'he seems to be taking somewhat different ground and discussing
a more general question.

All truly great poets, he asserts, have'a wide view of humanity,'' a large view of life'--
a profound sense, in short, of the relations between man and the universe;
and, since Racine is without this quality, his claim to true poetic greatness
must be denied. But, even upon the supposition that this view of Racine's
philosophical outlook is the true one-- and, in its most important sense,
I believe that it is not-- does Mr. Bailey's conclusion really follow?
Is it possible to test a poet's greatness by the largeness of his'view
of life'?

How wide, one would like to know, was Milton's'view of humanity'?
And, though Wordsworth's sense of the position of man in the universe
was far more profound than Dante's, who will venture to assert that
he was the greater poet?

The truth is that we have struck here upon a principle which lies at
the root, not only of Mr. Bailey's criticism of Racine, but of an entire
critical method-- the method which attempts to define the essential
elements of poetry in general, and then proceeds to ask of any particular
poem whether it possesses these elements, and to judge it accordingly.

How often this method has been employed, and how often it has proved disastrously fallacious! For,
after all, art is not a superior kind of chemistry, amenable to the
rules of scientific induction. Its component parts cannot be classified
and tested, and there is a spark within it which defies foreknowledge.
When Matthew Arnold declared that the value of a new poem might be
gauged by comparing it with the greatest passages in the acknowledged
masterpieces of literature, he was falling into this very error; for
who could tell that the poem in question was not itself a masterpiece,
living by the light of an unknown beauty, and a law unto itself?

It is the business of the poet to break rules and to baffle expectation; and all the masterpieces
in the world cannot make a precedent. Thus Mr. Bailey's attempts to discover, by quotations from
Shakespeare, Sophocles, and Goethe, the qualities without which no poet can be great, and his condemnation
of Racine because he is without them, is a fallacy in criticism. There is only one way to judge
a poet, as Wordsworth, with that paradoxical sobriety so characteristic of him, has pointed
out-- and that is, by loving him. But Mr. Bailey, with regard to
Racine at any rate, has not followed the advice of Wordsworth.

Let us look a little more closely into the nature of his attack.'L'épithète rare,'said the De Goncourts,'voilà
la marque de l'écrivain.'Mr. Bailey quotes the sentence with approval, observing that if, with Sainte-Beuve,
we extend the phrase to'le mot rare,'we have at once one of those
invaluable touch-stones with which we may test the merit of poetry.

And doubtless most English readers would be inclined to agree with
Mr. Bailey, for it so happens that our own literature is one in which
rarity of style, pushed often to the verge of extravagance, reigns
supreme.

Owing mainly, no doubt, to the double origin of our language, with its strange and violent
contrasts between the highly-coloured crudity of the Saxon words
and the ambiguous splendour of the Latin vocabulary; owing partly,
perhaps, to a national taste for the intensely imaginative, and partly,
too, to the vast and penetrating influence of those grand masters
of bizarrerie-- the Hebrew Prophets-- our poetry, our prose, and our
whole conception of the art of writing have fallen under the dominion
of the emphatic, the extraordinary, and the bold.

No one in his senses would regret this, for it has given our literature all its most characteristic
glories, and, of course, in Shakespeare, with whom expression is stretched
to the bursting point, the national style finds at once its consummate
example and its final justification. But the result is that we have
grown so unused to other kinds of poetical beauty, that we have now
come to believe, with Mr. Bailey, that poetry apart from'le mot rare'is
an impossibility.

The beauties of restraint, of clarity, of refinement, and of precision we pass by unheeding; we can
see nothing there but coldness and uniformity; and we go back with eagerness to the fling and the
bravado that we love so well. It is as if we had become so accustomed
to looking at boxers, wrestlers, and gladiators that the sight of
an exquisite minuet produced no effect on us; the ordered dance strikes
us as a monotony, for we are blind to the subtle delicacies of the
dancers, which are fraught with such significance to the practised
eye. He recoiled; then he remembered
that Lord Chatham's rooms lay in that wing, and also looked over the gardens. Doubtless the
countryfolk were watching in the hope that the great man would show himself at a window, or
that, at the worst, they might see the crumbs shaken from a tablecloth he had used.

This alone would have deterred the tutor from a retreat so public: besides, he saw something
which placed him at his ease. Beyond the group of watchers he espied three people strolling
at their leisure, their backs towards him. His sight was better than Lady Dunborough's; and
he had no difficulty in making out the three to be Julia, her mother, and the attorney. They
were moving towards the Bath road. Freed from the fear of interruption, he heaved a sigh of
relief, and, choosing the most comfortable chair, sat down on it.

It chanced to stand by the table, and on the table, as has been said, lay a vast litter of
papers. Mr. Thomasson's elbow rested on one. He went to move it; in the act he read the heading:
'This is the last will and testament of me Sir Anthony Cornelius Soane, baronet, of Estcombe
Hall, in the county of Wilts.'

'Tut-tut!' said the tutor. 'That is not Soane's will, that is his grandfather's.' And between
idleness and curiosity, not unmingled with surprise, he read the will to the end. Beside it
lay three or four narrow slips; he examined these, and found them to be extracts from a register.
Apparently some one was trying to claim under the will; but Mr. Thomasson did not follow the
steps or analyse the pedigree--his mind was engrossed by perplexity on another point. His thoughts
might have been summed up in the lines--

     'Not that the things themselves are rich or rare,
     The wonder's how the devil they got there'--

in a word, how came the papers to be in that room? 'These must be Soane's rooms,' he muttered
at last, looking about him. 'And yet--that's a woman's cloak. And that old cowskin bag is not
Sir George's. It is odd. Ah! What is this?'

This was a paper, written and folded brief-wise, and indorsed: 'Statement of the Claimant's
case for the worshipful consideration of the Eight Honourable the Earl of Chatham and others
the trustees of the Estcombe Hall Estate. Without Prejudice.'

'So!' said the tutor. 'This may be intelligible.' And having assured himself by a furtive glance
through the window that the owners of the room were not returning, he settled himself to peruse
it. When he again looked up, which was at a point about one-third of the way through the document,
his face wore a look of rapt, incredulous, fatuous astonishment. 

Tancredi Prince of Salerne, (an vniuersitie in the region of Italie)
was a curteous Lorde, and of gentle nature: had he not in his age
imbrued his handes with the bloud of his owne doughter.

It chaunced that this Prince in al his life time, had but that doughter:
but more happie had he ben if she had neuer ben borne.

That doughter he loued so well, as a father might loue his childe: and for the tender loue
he bare her, he was not able to suffer her to be out of his sight. And could not finde in his
harte to marie her, although she had many yeres passed the time that she was mariageable: notwithstanding,
in thende he gaue her to wife to one of the sonnes of the Duke of Capua, with whom she continued
no long time, but was a widowe, and then retourned vnto her fathers house againe. This Ladie
was very faire and comely of bodie and face, as any creature could
be, yonge, lustie, and more wise peraduenture then a woman ought to
be.

And thus dwelling with her louing father, she liued like a noble Ladie, in great pleasure: and
seing that her father for the loue he bare vnto her, had no mynde or care to marie her agayne,
and also she thinking it skarce honest to require him thereunto,
deuised secretly (if it were possible) to retaine some valiaunt man
to be her louer.

And seyng manye gentlemen and others, frequenting her fathers court (as we commonly see in the
courtes of princes) and marking the behauiour and order of many (amonges all) there was a
young man, one of her fathers seruauntes that liked her well, whose name was Guiscardo, of
very base birth (but in vertue and honest condicions more noble then the reste) and many times
when she sawe him, she wonderfully delited in him, alwayes praysing his doinges aboue all others.
The younge man, not hauing good consideration of him selfe, perceiuing her feruent affection,
so fixed his minde that he disposed the same vpon nothing els but to loue her. One louing an
other secretly in this sorte, and the Ladie verie studious to finde occasion that she might
talke with him, vnwilling to committe the secrecie of her loue to any man, she imagined a newe
deuise to geue him knowledge thereof. And wrote a letter signifying vnto him, what he should
doe the next day, and howe he might vse himselfe to come to talke
with her: and then putting the letter into the cane of a rede, she
gaue it vnto Guiscardo in sporting wise, and said.“ Thou shalt this
night make a paire of Bellowes for thy seruaunt wherwith she may kindle
the fire.” Guiscardo toke it, and thought that shee did not geue it
vnto him, without some special purpose went to his chamber, and loking
vpon the Cane perceiued it to be hollowe, and openyng it founde the
letter within whiche shee had written.

And when he had well perused it, vnderstandyng the tenour thereof, hee thought hym selfe the
happiest man in the worlde, and began to put hym selfe in readinesse, to mete with his Ladie,
by suche wayes and meanes, as shee had to him appointed. There was in the corner of the Princes
palace a Caue, long time before made vnder the syde of a hille, whiche Caue receiued light by certayne
ventes made of force within the sayd mountaine, and because the same was not frequented and
vsed, it was ouergrowen with busshes and thornes. Into which Caue was a discent by a secrete payre
of stayers, into one of the lowest chambers of the Palaice, wherin
the Ladie lay, which was out of all men’ s minde, because it was not
occupied many a day before, and shut vp with a very strong doore.

But Loue (in the eyes wherof nothing is so secrete, but will come to knoweledge) had brought
the same againe into the remembraunce of the amorous Lady. The opening of which doore (that no
man might knowe it) many dayes did trouble her wittes: afterwarde when she had founde the waye,
she went downe alone into the Caue, and viewing the vente, whereunto she had geuen order for
Guiscardo to come, she tolde him of what height it was from the ground: for the execution whereof, Guiscardo
prepared a rope with knots and degrees to goe vp and downe, and putting vpon him a leather coate,
to kepe him from the thornes and bushes, went downe the next night at the saide vente, vnknowen
of any man: and fastening one of the endes of the rope, to the stocke of a tree, that grewe at the
mouth of the vente, hee slipte downe into the Caue, and taried there
for the Ladie, who the next daye faining her selfe to slepe after dinner,
sent her maydes out of her chamber, and locked her selfe within alone:
and then opened the doore, and went downe into the Caue, where finding
Guiscardo, they marueilously reioysed one with an other. And from thence
went vp together into her chamber: where they remained togethers, the
moste parte of that day, to their great delight. And hauing geuen good
order for the affaires of their loue, and the secrete vse therof,
Guiscardo retourned into the Caue, and the Ladie locked the doore, and
came out amonges her maides. The next night after, Guiscardo issued
out of the vente vpon the rope, wherewith he descended and conueied him
selfe into his chamber. And hauing learned the waye, he resorted thither
many times after.

But Fortune enuious of that pleasure, so long and great, with dolorous successe, tourned the ioye
of those twoo louers into heauie and sorowefull ende. The Prince accustomed sometimes to resorte
alone into his doughter’ s chamber, and there for a whyle to tarie and talke with her, and so
to departe. Vpon a daye after dinner, when the Ladie (whose name was Gismonda) was in the garden
with all her maidens, he repaired vnknowen or seene of any man into her chamber. But being loth to
trouble his doughter of her pleasure, and finding the wyndowes of her chamber shut and the curtens
of her bedde drawen, he satte down vpon a stoole at the beddes feete, and leaning his head to the bedde
the Curteine drawen ouer him (as he had bene hidden of purpose) he
fel a slepe.

And the king being thus a slepe, Gismonda that (in euill time) the same day had appointed Guiscardo
to come, left her maydens in the Gardeine, and entred very secretly into her chamber, locking
fast the doore after her, and not knowing any man to be there, shee opened the doore of the Caue
to Guiscardo, who was redie to wayte for her comming. Then they caste them selues vpon the bedde,
as they were wonte to doe, solacing the time together, vntill it chaunced
that the Prince awaked, heard and sawe what Guiscardo and his doughter
did. Whereof being verie sorowfull, he would vpon the first sight haue
cried out: but that he thought it better for that time to holde his
peace, still to kepe him selfe secrete, to the intent that he might
more priuelie, and with lesse shame, accomplishe that which he purposed
to do.

The twoo louers continued togethers a great time, as they were wont to do, without any knowledge of
the Prince his being there, and when they saw time, they went downe
from the bedde: and Guiscardo retourning to the Caue, shee went foorthe
of her chamber, from whence Tancredi (as olde as he was) conueyed him
selfe into the Gardeine out at a wyndowe of the same, vnseen and
not perceiued of any.

Who like a pensife man, and carefull euen vnto death, repaired to his owne chamber, and the next night,
about one of the clocke, he caused Guiscardo to be apprehended, by an order that he had prescribed, at
his comming forth of the Caue, euen clothed as he was, with his leather coate: and by twoo men was
secretly conueyed to the Prince. Who so sone as he sawe him, sayd vnto him with teares standing
in his eies:“ Guiscardo, the beneuolence and goodnes towardes thee, haue
not merited this outrage and shame, that thou hast committed this
daye in mine owne house, which I sawe with mine owne eyes.” To whom
Guiscardo gaue no other aunswere, but that Loue was of greater force,
then either any Prince or hym selfe.

Then the Prince commaunded him to be kept, in a chamber adioyning. The next day the king (Gismonda
being ignoraunt hereof) reuolued in his minde, diuers and sundrye matters, and after diner
as he was accustomed, he wente into his doughter’ s chamber, and caused her to be called vnto
him, and shutting the chamber doore, in lamentable speche sayd vnto her.“ Gismonda, I had so much
affiaunce and truste in thy vertue and honestie, that it coulde neuer haue entred into my mynde
(althoughe it had bene tolde me, if I had not sene it with mine owne propre eyes) but that thou
haddest not onely in deede, but also in thought, abandoned the companie of all men, except it
had bene thy husbande: whereof I shalbe right pensife and sorowefull so longe as this litle remnaunt
of life (that mine olde age doth preserue) indureth in mee. And sithe thou couldest not conteyne
from suche dishonest loue, I woulde it had pleased God, that thou haddest taken a manne, equall
to thyne estate. But amonges so many that do frequente my court, thou hast chosen this young man
Guiscardo, whose birthe is very vile and base, and brought vp (as
it were for God’ s sake) from a childe to this present daye, in our
Court.

For which consideration I am verie sore disquieted, not knowing how to take this at thy handes: for
with him (whom I haue caused to be taken this nighte in going out of the Caue, and nowe kepte
as prisoner) I have already concluded what to do. But with thee what I shal do, God knoweth: of
the one side, the loue that I still beare thee, more then any father
euer bare to his doughter, doth drawe me: on the other side, a iust
displeasure and indignation, taken for thy great follie, doth moue
me.

The one mocion would that I should pardon thee, the other forceth me against my nature, to be
cruell vnto thee. Notwithstanding, before I doe make any certaine resolucion, I desire to heare
what thou canst saye for thy selfe.” When hee had spoken those woordes, he kissed her face,
weping verie bitterly like a childe that had ben beaten. Gismonda hearing her father, and knowing that
not only her secret loue was discouered, but also her louer Guiscardo to be in pryson, conceiued
an inestimable sorowe, vttering the same many times, with outcries and
schreches, according to the maner of women, howe beit, her great courage
surpassed her weakenesse, and did sette a bolde face on the matter,
with marueilous stoutnesse determining, before she made any sute for
her selfe, no longer to liue, seing that her frende Guiscardo was
alreadie dead.

Wherefore not like a sorowefull woman, or one taken in any faulte, but as a desperate persone,
with a drie and stoute countenaunce, not troubled or vexed, she said thus to her father:“ I doe
not purpose, deare father, to stande in deniall, nor yet by humble
sute to make requeste: for the one wyll nothyng auayle mee, and the
other is to none effecte.

Moreouer I doe not intende by any meanes, to beseche your clemencie and loue towardes mee, to be beneuolente
and bontifull, but confessinge the trouthe, I will first with true
reasons and argumentes, defende myne honour, and afterwardes prosecute
in vertuous wyse, by effectes, the stoutnesse of my courage.

True it is, that I haue loued and do loue Guiscardo, and will loue him so long as I liue, which
shalbe but a litle time. And if so be that a woman may loue a man after death, I will not cease to loue
him. But womanly frailtie and feminine weakenesse hath not so much induced me hereunto, as the
litle care you haue had to bestow me in mariage, and the great vertues
that daily I haue seene in Guiscardo.

You ought deare father to knowe, that your selfe is of fleshe, and of fleshe you haue engendred
me your doughter, and not of Stone or Iron. In likewyse you ought, and must remember (although now
you be arriued to olde yeares) what yonge folkes bee, and of what great power the lawe of youth
is: and although you were (during the force of your youthlie dayes)
trayned and exercised in factes of armes, yet nowe you oughte to knowe
what great puissaunce resteth in the idle and delicate life, as well
in the aged, as amonges yonge people. I am then as you be, begotten
of fleshe, and my yeres so few, as yet but yonge, and thereby full
of lust and delight. Wherunto the knowledge which I haue had alredy in
mariage, forceth me to accomplishe that desire: and to the same be
added marueilous forces, against whiche it is impossible for me to
resiste, but rather to folowe, whereunto they drawe me.

I am become amorous like a yonge woman, and like a woman as I am,
and certainly I would haue imploied my whole force that waye, so farre
as I could not to committe any shame to you, or to my selfe in that,
whereunto my naturall offence hath forced me. To which thing, pitiful
loue, and gentle fortune haue founde out, and shewed a waye secret
enough, whereby without knowledge of any man, I am come to the effecte
of my desires: which thing I will not denie (who so euer tolde you
of it, or by what meanes so euer you are come to the knowledge of
it) I haue not taken Guiscardo to be my louer by chaunce, as many
women haue done, but I haue chosen him by long aduise and deliberation,
aboue all others, and haue brought him into me in this wise, inioying
with our wise continuance of longe time, the accomplishment of my
desire, wherof me thincke (althoughe I haue not offended but by loue)
that you doe purpose to prosecute rather the vulgar opinion, then
the truth, purposinge in this wise moste bitterly to comptroll me,
saying:‘ That you had not had such an occasion of anger, if I had
chosen one that had been a gentleman.’ Wherein you do not consider,
that the faulte is not mine, but rather to be ascribed to fortune,
who ought to be blamed because many times shee exalteth the vnworthie,
and treadeth vnder foote those that be most worthie: but nowe let
vs leaue of further talke of this matter, and consider the beginninge
hereof.

First of all you see, that of one masse of fleshe we haue all receiued
flesh, and that one Creatour hath created euery lyuing creature, with force
and puissaunce equally, and wyth equall vertue: which vertue was the
first occasion that made the difference and distinction of vs all that
were borne, and be borne equall, and they that obtayned the greatest
part of vertue, and did the workes of her, were called noble, the
rest continuing vnnoble.

And albeit contrary vse afterwards obscured this Law, yet therefore,
shee is not remoued ne abandoned from nature, or good maners.

In likewise hee that by vertue performeth all his doinges, doth manifestlie shewe himselfe to be
noble: and he that doth otherwise terme him, doth commit the faulte, and
not he that is so called. Behold all your gentlemen, and examine well
their vertue, their conditions and maner of doinges.

On the other part, behold the qualities and condicions of Guiscardo:
then if you please to giue iudgement wythout affection, you shall
say that he is righte noble: and that all your gentlemen be villaines
in respecte of him.

The vertuous and excellencie of whom, I beleeue cannot be placed in any
other wight, as in hym, as well by your owne report as by the choyse
of mine owne eyes. Who euer praysed man so, and with such ample commendacions
praise worthie, wherein an honest man ought to be praised, as you
haue done? and truly not without cause: for, if mine eyes be not
deceiued, you neuer gaue hym anye praise but that I haue knowen more
in him then your wordes were able to expresse.

Notwithstanding, if I haue bin deceiued herein, it was you by whom I haue bin deceiued: wil you
then say that I couple myselfe with a man of base condicion? Truly you cannot well say so.
But if you will saye, perchaunce with a poore man, I confesse it: and verely it is to your shame,
that you haue not vouchsafed to place in highe estate a man so honest, being your owne seruaunt. Neuerthelesse,
pouertie doth not depriue anye parte of nobilitie, but riches hath.
Manye kinges and greate Princes, haue bin poore in olde time, and manye
ploughmen and sheepeheardes in times past, haue bin aduaunced to riche
estate.

And the last doubt which troubleth you, is, that you be doubtfull what to doe with me: caste boldly
out of your minde that doubte, and if you do intend in thextremity
of your age to vse that which in your youth you neuer did, I purpose
to become cruel also. Use your cruelty against me, for the auoyding
whereof I haue not determined to make any supplication to you as giltie
of this faulte, if faultes may be rehearsed. Assuring you, that if
you do not vnto me, that which you haue done or will doe to Guiscardo,
mine owne handes shall doe it. Wherefore goe to, and let fall your
teares with women, and if you purpose to be cruell, kill him and let
me also drincke of the same Cuppe, if you thincke we haue deserued
it.” The king hearing the stout words of his doughter, thoughte not
that shee woulde haue done in deede, as her wordes pretended, and
as she said she would doe. Wherefore departing from her, and not willing
to vse any maner of crueltie towards her, hee thoughte by the destruction
and slaughter of Guiscardo, to coole her burning loue. And therefore commaunded
two of his seruauntes (that had Guiscardo in keeping) without any
noise, to strangle him the next nighte, and afterwardes plucking his
harte out of his bodie, to bringe it vnto him: who did as they were
commaunded.

And the next day the king caused a faire Cuppe of gold to be broughte
vnto him, wherein he laid the harte of Guiscardo, which he sent (by one
of his trustiest seruauntes) vnto his doughter: and commaunded him,
when hee presented the same vnto her to say these wordes:“ Thy father
hath sent thee this presente, to comforte thy selfe with the thing,
which thou doest chiefle loue, as thou haste comforted him of that
which he loued most.” Gismonda not amoued from her cruel determination,
caused to be brought vnto her (after her father was gone) venemous
herbes and rootes, which she distilled together, and made water thereof
to drincke sodenly if that came to passe which she doubted. You were not thinking of me, Sir George, but of your home, and the avenue of which
you told me, and the elms in which the rooks lived, and the river in which you used to fish.
You were wondering to whom they would go, and who would possess them, and who would be born
in the room in which you were born, and who would die in the room in which your father died.'

'You are a witch!' he said, a spasm of pain crossing his face.

'Thank you,' she answered, looking at him over her fan. 'Last time you said, "D--n the girl!"
It is clear I am improving your manners, Sir George. You are now so polite, that presently
you will consult me.'

So she could read his very thoughts! Could set him on the rack! Could perceive when pain and
not irritation underlay the oath or the compliment. He was always discovering something new
in her; something that piqued his curiosity, and kept him amused. 'Suppose I consult you now?'
he said.

She swung her fan to and fro, playing with it childishly, looking at the light through it,
and again dropping it until it hung from her wrist by a ribbon. 'As your highness pleases,'
she said at last. 'Only I warn you, that I am not the Bottle Conjuror.'

'No, for you are here, and he was not there,' Sir George answered, affecting to speak in jest.
'But tell me; what shall I do in this case? A claim is made against me.'

'It's the bomb,' she said, 'that burst, Sir George, is it not?'

'The same. The point is, shall I resist the claim, or shall I yield to it? What do you say, ma'am?'

She tossed up her fan and caught it deftly, and looked to him for admiration. Then, 'It depends,'
she said. 'Is it a large claim?'

'It is a claim--for all I have,' he answered slowly. It was the first time he had confessed
that to any one, except to himself in the night watches.

If he thought to touch her, he succeeded. If he had fancied her unfeeling before, he did so
no longer. She was red one minute and pale the next, and the tears came into her eyes. 'Oh,'
she cried, her breast heaving, 'you should not have told me! Oh, why did you tell me?' And
she rose hurriedly as if to leave him; and then sat down again, the fan quivering in her hand. 

March 26, 1919.

CHARIVARIA.

WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN is reported to be busy sawing trees.

Some declare that his energy is due to an hallucination that they
are German generals.

Others say the whole story is a clumsy attempt to discredit him with
the Labour party.*** Dublin Corporation has decided to increase its
revenue by eight thousand pounds by raising the charge on water.

Citizens are urged to put patriotism before prejudice and give the
stuff a trial.*** The inconveniences that attend influenza reached
their climax a few days ago when an occupant of a crowded tube train
blew the nose of the man next to him in mistake for his own.*** The
beggar who has been going about telling a pitiful story of being wounded
by a trench-mortar during the Jutland battle is now regarded by the
police as an impostor.*** A defendant in a County Court case at Liverpool
last week stated in his evidence that he had been on the telephone
for the last twenty years.

In fairness to the Postal authorities he should have admitted that it was a trunk call.******
A lady-correspondent, writing to a daily paper, laments the fact
that the War has changed a great many husbands.

Surely the wife who receives the wrong husband can get some sort
of redress from the War Office.*** All the main-line railways are
to be electrified, Sir ERIC GEDDES told the House of Commons.

Meanwhile he has successfully electrified all the old buffers.***
A number of women are doing good work as mates on Medway sailing
barges.

The denial of the report that one of them recently looked at a Wapping
policeman for five minutes on end without once repeating herself may
be ascribed to professional jealousy.*** "The small car," says a
trade contemporary, "has come to stop."

We can well believe it.

It is an old habit.*** It has been discovered that the new Education Act, which prohibits boys
under twelve being worked for more than two hours on Sunday, may
apply to choir-boys.

A Commission, we understand, is to be called upon to decide finally
whether they are really boys or just little demons.*** A man who applied
to the Bloomsbury County Court for relief against an eviction order
stated that he could find no other suitable house, as he had nine
children under fourteen years of age.

His residential problem remains unsolved, but we understand, with regard to the other difficulty,
that the Board of Works has offered to sell him a card index at considerably below cost.***
"Bridegrooms," says a contemporary, "are discovering that weddings
cost more."

The growing practice among fathers-in-law of delivering their daughters
"free at rail," instead of, as formerly, "from house to house," may
have something to do with it.*** "Ramsgate," says The Daily Mail,
"is racing Margate in Thanet's reconstruction."

At present Margate still claims to lead by one nigger and two winkle-barrows.***
The Colorado Legislature has passed a resolution in favour of Irish
independence.

The remark attributed to Mr. A. J. BALFOUR, that he always thought Colorado was the name of a twopenny
cigar, has failed to make the situation easier.*** "A pupil at a
West London'out-of-work'school," says a news item, "daily attends
his studies in an opera-hat."

On being informed of this fact, Sir THOMAS BEECHAM is reported to
have expressed the opinion that its significance was obvious.***
President WILSON, it is announced, hopes to visit Scotland shortly
for some golf.

He believes that some adjustment of the dispute as to the respective
merits of the running-up and pitch-and-stop methods of approach should
be embodied in the Peace terms if international harmony is to be really
secured.*** Primroses and crocuses are blooming in North London.

Pending an official announcement by The Daily Mail people are requested to accept this as a
preliminary Spring.*** Concrete ships, says a Government official,
can be made in moulds.

But of course you must not forget to grease the tin.*** A Sinn Feiner,
arriving home in Crossgar, Co. Down, last week, had a very hearty
welcome.

Thirteen spectators and seven policemen were injured.*** Many members of the Bar are greatly afraid
that some learned judge will ask, "What is the Jazz-step?" before the question has really been
settled by the dancers themselves.*** The young lady who, on receiving
a proposal of marriage over the telephone last week, replied, "Yes,
who's speaking?" turns out to be an ex-typist recently demobilised
from the Air Ministry.*** It is interesting to note that to-day is
the anniversary of the day that was not a Flag-day last year. Presently she slackened her speed and almost stopped--then hurried on, when
she thought that she heard him following. But he did not overtake her, and Julia's step grew
slow again, and slower until she reached the portico.

Between love and pride, hope and shame, she had a hard fight; happily a coach was unloading,
and she could stand and feign interest in the passengers. Two young fellows fresh from Bath
took fire at her eyes; but one who stared too markedly she withered with a look, and, if the
truth be told, her fingers tingled for his ears. Her own ears were on the alert, directed backwards
like a hare's. Would he never come? Was he really so simple, so abominably stupid, so little
versed in woman's ways? Or was he playing with her? Perhaps, he had gone into the town? Or
trudged up the Salisbury road; if so, and if she did not see him now, she might not meet him
until the next morning; and who could say what might happen in the interval? True, he had promised
that he would not leave Marlborough without seeing her; but things had altered between them
since then.

At last--at last, when she felt that her pride would allow her to stay no longer, and she was
on the point of going in, the sound of his step cut short her misery. She waited, her heart
beating quickly, to hear his voice at her elbow. Presently she heard it, but he was speaking
to another; to a coarse rough man, half servant half loafer, who had joined him, and was in
the act of giving him a note. Julia, outwardly cool, inwardly on tenterhooks, saw so much out
of the corner of her eye, and that the two, while they spoke, were looking at her. Then the
man fell back, and Sir George, purposely averting his gaze and walking like a man heavy in
thought, went by her; he passed through the little crowd about the coach, and was on the point
of disappearing through the entrance, when she hurried after him and called his name. 

Wherof Andreuccio did marueile very much: and if he had not taken good holde, he had fallen agayne
downe to the bottome, to his great hurt, and peraduenture not without
peril of his life.

Notwithstanding being out of the pitte, and finding halberdes and other weapons there, which he
knew wel his fellowes brought not with them: he then began muche more to wonder. But betwene
feare and ignoraunce of that which happened, complaining him self of his harde fortune, without
touching of any thing, he determined to go from thence, and wandred he could not tell whether.
But as he was departing from that place, he met his fellowes, retiring
backe to drawe him vp.

     And when they perceiued him alredie haled out of the pitte, they
wer wonderfully abashed, and asked who drewe him out?

Andreuccio made aunswere, that he coulde not tell, rehearsing to
them in order, what had chaunced, and of the things he founde without.

They vnderstanding the matter, laughed and tolde him againe the cause,
wherefore they ran awaye, and what they were that drewe him vp.

And without further talke (being then about midnight, they repaired to the great churche: into
the whiche they easely entred: and wente to the Tombe, whiche was of Marble, verie huge and weightie:
the couer whereof being verye great, with their crowes of yron, and
other tooles, they lifted vp so farre, as one man was able to enter,
which doen, one asked an other, who should goe in?“ Not I” quod one:“
And not I” (quod the other)“ No, nor I” quod Andreuccio.

The other twoo hearing Andreuccio saye so, stepped vnto hym, saying:“
Wilte thou not goe in? by the faythe wee owe to God: if thou goe not
in, we will so beate thee, with one of these yron barres, as thou
shalt neuer sturre againe out of this place.” Andreuccio being made
their common riding foole, greately fearing when he heard them saye
so, went in: and when he was in the graue, he sayde vnto him selfe.“
These good felowes do make me goe in, because they would deceiue me:
for when I haue geuen them all that is here, and I readie to come
out, they meane to runne awaie to saue them selues, and to leaue me
behinde without any parte thereof.” Wherfore he purposed first, to
take his owne porcion to him selfe: and remembring the Ring of great
valour, whereof they tolde him: so sone as he was in the graue, he
pulled it of from the Archebishop’ s finger, and put it vpon his own:
and afterwardes taking the Crosse, the Miter and the Gloues, dispoyling
him euen to his shyrt, he gaue them all saying.“ That there was nothing
els.” But they pressing vpon him that there was a ring behinde, willed
him throughly to make searche for it: howebeit he still aunswered
that he could not finde it.

And because he would make them to tarie a litle longer, he fained as
though he had made a further searche. The other so subtile and malicious
as he, bad him to seke stil: and when they saw time, they toke away the
proppes that staied vp the Tombe, and ran awaye, leauing poore Andreuccio
fast shutte in the graue. Whiche when Andreuccio perceiued, what chaunced
to him then, eche man may consider: then he assaied some times with
his shoulders, sometimes with his head, to remoue the couer, but all
was in vaine.

Wherefore euen for verie sorowe, he fell in a sownde vpon the dead
bodie of the Bishop. And if a man had seene them both at that instant,
it coulde not well haue bene discerned, whether was the dead corps,
the Archebishhope dead, or poore Andreuccio dying: but after he was
come to him self, he began piteously to complaine, seing hee was arriued
to one of these twoo endes, either in the Tombe to die for hunger,
and with the stenche of the dead bodie, putrifying with wormes, if no
man came to open it: or els to be hanged as a thiefe, if hee were founde
within: and as he was in these considerations tormented with sorowe:
he heard a noyse in the church of diuers men, who as he thought came
to the like facte, that he and his felowes had done before, wherewith
his feare began much more to augmente.

But after they had opened the graue and stayed it vp, it came in question
amongs them who should go in. And when they had contended a good space about
the same, a priest that was in the companie sayde.“ Why are ye afrayde?
doe ye thinke that hee will eate you? the dead neuer eate men: I will
go in my selfe.” And when he had sayde so, he laied him downe vpon
his breste at the side of the graue, and thrusting his feete in before,
he went downe.

Andreuccio seeing that, erected him selfe vpright and caught the Priest by one of the legges, making
as though he would haue drawen him in: which when the priest perceiued, he cried out a loude, speeding
him self out so fast as he could. Wherewithal the reste dismaied almoste
out of their wittes, leauing the graue open, toke their legges and
ran, as though a hundred thousand deuels had bene at their tailes:
whiche seing, Andreuccio (more ioyful then he looked for) lepte out
of the graue, and ran as faste as he could out of the Churche, at
the place where he came in.

At what time dayelight began to appeare, and he with the ringe on
his finger, wandred he wiste not whether, tyll he came to the Seaside, and
at length recouered his Inne, where he founde his companie and his
hoste al that night, taking greate care for him.

To whome recompting that whiche chaunced, his hoste gaue him aduise incontinently, to get him
out of Naples, whiche presently he did: and retourned to Perugia,
hauing bestowed his v. C. crownes vpon a rynge, whiche he thought
to haue imploied vpon horses: for whiche cause he made that iourney.
THE THIRTY-SEUENTH NOUELL. The Romaine Empire being transferred from the
Frenche, vnto the Almanes, there rose a great discencion betwene both the
nacions, and in the ende a cruell and continuall warre. For whiche
cause, as well for the defence of his kingdome, as to offende his ennemies,
the Frenche king and one of his sonnes, with all the power of their
owne Realme and of their frendes and allies, assembled a great hoste
of menne to encountre with their enemies: and before they proceaded,
because they would not leaue their realme without a gouernour, knowing
Gualtieri, Erie of Anglers, to be a gentle and sage knight, and their
moste trustie frend, and that he was a man moste expert in the art
of warfare, seming vnto them (notwithstanding) more apt to pleasure,
then paine, lefte him Lieutenaunt generall in their place, for the
gouernement of the whole kingdome of Fraunce: and preceded in their
enterprise.

The Erle then began with great knowledge, and by good order, to execute his office committed vnto
hym, doynge nothinge withoute the consente of the Queene and her fayre daughter in lawe, althoughe
they were lefte to be vnder his custodie and gouernement, yet neuertheles, he honoured them as his
Maistresses and superiours. The Erle Gaultieri was a beautiful personage, about the age of fourtie yeares,
so familiar and well condicioned, as any gentleman could be, and
be sides that, hee was the moste excellent and trimmest knight that
was knowen in those dayes, and one moste comelie in his apparell.

It chaunced that the king and his sonne, being at the warres aforesaide, the wife of the Erle
died in the meane whyle, leauing him onely twoo litle yong children,
a sonne and a doughter, whiche he had by her. He then frequenting
the court of the aforesaid ladies, talking many times with theim
about the affaires of the Realme: the wife of the kinges sonne, fixed
her eyes vpon him, and with great affection (for his persone and vertues)
feruently embraced hym with secrete loue.

And knowing her selfe to bee yonge and freshe, and him to be without
a wyfe, thought (sodainly) to bring to passe, that whiche shee desired,
and thinking that nothing could lette it but onelye shame to discouer
it, shee purposed vtterlye to abandone the same. And vppon a daye
beyng alone, shee sente one to seeke the Erle, as though shee would
haue communicated with him of other matters.

The Erle whose mynde was farre different from the Ladies, incontinentlye came vnto her: who beyng
sette downe together vppon a bedde (whiche she desired) alone in a chamber, he asked her twyse
vpon what occasion she sent for hym: and she hauing nothing to saye
vnto hym, pressed in the ende, and rapte with loue waxed verie shamefaste
and almoste wepinge, and quaking for feare, with faynte woordes, began
to saye as foloweth.“ My derely beloued and louing frende, and Lorde,
you may easely knowe (beyng a wyse man as you bee) the frailtie of
men and women: and by diuers considerations, the weakenesse to be
more in the one, then in the other.

Wherefore (before a iust iudge) one fault of diuerse qualities, ought
not of reason to receiue one like punishement. Moreouer who is he
that will saye, that a poore man or woman, which getteth their liuing
with the labour of their bodie, ought not more to be reprehended
if they become amourous, and subiect to their lustes, then the riche
Ladye whiche taketh no care for her liuing, or wanteth any thing that
shee desireth.

Truely I beleue there is none that will saye so: for which reason
I suppose that the things beforesayd, ought to serue the greatest
part of the excuse to the aduauntage of her that doth possesse them:
if it happen that shee geue her selfe fully to the conductions of
loue: and the superflusage of her saide excuse ought to consiste,
in that shee hath chosen her a sage and vertuous frende, if shee that
loueth hath done so in dede.

Whiche twoo thinges as they ought to be (in my iudgement) so they are in me, and many other also: whiche
ought to induce me to loue, accordingly as my youth requireth, and the great distaunce that
is betweene my husbande and mee. It behoueth nowe then, that they should aduaunce them selues
in your presence, for the defence of my burning loue: and if the
same do raine in you, whiche haue power in the wise, then I beseche you
to geue me counsayle and aide in the thing which I shal demaunde.
True it is, that for the long absence of my husbande (not able to resist
the prickes of the fleshe, and the force of loue) whiche be of suche
great effect, that they haue many times past and yet daily do vanquishe
and ouercome, not only feble and weake women, but also the strongest
men. I liuing in ease and idlenes as you se, and forced to folowe the
pleasures of loue and to become amourous: and as I do knowe well,
that suche thinges (if they were knowen) should not be reputed honest.

Neuerthelesse, the same being kepte secrete, I truste shall not be reprocheful. Notwithstanding dame
Loue is so fauourable vnto mee, that not onely shee hath geuen me
true iudgement in choise of a frende, but hath reueiled vnto me that
it is you whiche is worthy to be beloued, of such a Ladie as I am.
For if I be not greatlye deceiued, I doe make accompte that you be
the fayrest personage, the semeliest, the moste curteous, and wysest
gentleman, in all the Realme of Fraunce.

And as I maye saye, by reason of his absence, that I am without a husband
so may you affirme that you be without a wife: wherefore I beseche you,
for the loue that I beare vnto you, that you will not denye me your
loue and frendship, and that you will haue pitie vpon my young yeares,
whiche doubtles do consume for you, as I see against the fierie flames.”
At which worde the teares ran downe in such aboundance, as where she
thought to make further supplication and praiers, she had no more
power to speake.

But holding downe her head, like one that was ouercome, she threw her self downe into the Erles
lappe, who like a faithfull knight, began to blame (with sharpe rebukes) her fonde and foolishe
loue: pushing her from hym, as shee was about to clepe him aboute the necke, and swoore great othes,
that rather hee woulde be drawen in peces then consent to suche a thing,
to bee done by him, or any other, against the honour of his Lorde
and maister.

Whiche woordes the Ladie hearing, sodainly forgat her loue, and in great
rage, sayde vnto him:“ Shall I then be frustrate, thou arrent villayne,
in this wyse of my desired ioye? but sithens thou goest about, to seke
my destruction, I will cause thee to be put to death, or els to be
banyshed the worlde.” When she had sayde so, by and by she caught
her selfe by the heare of the head, and almoste tare it of cleane,
and then layde handes vppon her garmentes, renting the same in peeces,
and afterwardes cried out aloude:“ Helpe, helpe, the Erle of Angiers
wil rauyshe me by force.” The Earle seeing that (and farre more doubting
of the enuie, and malice of the Courte, then his owne conscience,
for any committed facte, fearing also, that more credite would be
geuen to the wickednesse of the Ladie, then to his innocencie) conueighed
him selfe from that place, and so soone as hee coulde, hee wente out
of the palace, and fledde home to his owne house, where without any
further aduise, he placed his children on horsebacke, and so well
as he coulde caried them to Callice.

At the brute and noyse of the ladie, many people assembled: who seing
and hearing the occasion of her crie, not onely beleued her wordes,
but also affirmed, that the pompouse state of the Erle, was vsed by
him to bring to passe, th’ effect of his desire.

Then they ranne to the houses of the Erle, in great furie, to arreste his persone: but not
finding hym there, they firste sacked his houses, and afterwardes ouerthrewe them to the grounde.
The newes hereof (so wicked as might be deuised) arriued at the king and dolphins Campe, whereof
they were so troubled and offended, as they condempned the Earle, and all his progenie to perpetuall
exile: promising great giftes and rewardes, to them that would present them quicke or dead.
The Erle being offended in his conscience, for that he was fled, innocent of the facte, made himself
culpable therof, and arriued at Callice with his children, dissembling what he was, and sodainlye passed
ouer into England, and in poore apparell, trauailed vp to London. And before he entred the citie,
he gaue his children diuers admonicions, but specially of two things: First, that they should
beare paciently the pouertie, wherunto fortune (without their offence) had brought theim. Afterwardes,
that wisely they should take hede, at no time to manifeste and declare
from whence they came, and whose children they were, as they loued
the price of their owne lyues.

The sonne was named Lewes, almoste of the age of nyne yeares, and the doughter called Violenta, was about
the age of VII. bothe whiche chyldren, as their age could suffer them, did well obserue their fathers
hest, as afterwardes it did right wel appeare. And because that this might the better be brought
to passe, it semed good vnto him, to alter their names, naming the son Perotto, and the doughter
Gianetta. And when they were arriued at London, in maner of beggers, they craued their almosse, and
being by fortune for that purpose, one morning at a church doore, it came to passe that a
great Lady, which was one of the Marshalles of Englandes wiues, in going out of the church, sawe
the Erle and his two litle children begging their almose, of whom she demaunded, what countrie man
he was, and whether those children were his owne, or not. Here, you,' he continued, beckoning to a man who limped forward
reluctantly from one of the side passages in which he had been standing, 'show yourself, and
tell this gentleman the story you told me.'

'If it please your honour,' the fellow whimpered, 'it was no fault of mine. I ran down to give
the alarm as soon as I saw what was doing--they were forcing her into the carriage then--but
I was in such a hurry I fell and rolled to the bottom of the Mound, and was that dazed and
shaken it was five minutes before I could find any one.'

'How many were there?' Sir George asked. There was an ugly light in his eyes and his cheeks
burned. But he spoke with calmness.

'Two I saw, and there may have been more. The chaise had been waiting in the yard of the empty
house at the corner, the old Nag's Head. I saw it come out. That was the first thing I did
see. And then the lady.'

'Did she seem to be unwilling?' the man in the Ramillies asked. 'Did she scream?'

'Ay, she screamed right enough,' the fellow answered lumpishly. 'I heard her, though the noise
came faint-like. It is a good distance, your honour'll mind, and some would not have seen what
I saw.'

'And she struggled?'

'Ay, sir, she did. They were having a business with her when I left, I can tell you.'

The picture was too much for Sir George. Gripping the landlord's shoulder so fiercely that
Smith winced and cried out, 'And you have heard this man,' he said, 'and you chatter here?
Fools! This is no matter for words, but for horses and pistols! Get me a horse and pistols--and
tell my servant. Are you so many dolls? D--n you, sir'--this to Mr. Fishwick--'stand out of
my way!'

CHAPTER XVII

MR. FISHWICK, THE ARBITER

Mr. Fishwick, who had stepped forward with a vague notion of detaining him, fell back. Sir
George's stern aspect, which bore witness to the passions that raged in a heart at that moment
cruelly divided, did not encourage interference; and though one or two muttered, no one moved.
There is little doubt that he would have passed out without delay, mounted, and gone in pursuit--with
what result in the direction of altering the issue, it is impossible to state--if an obstacle
had not been cast in his way by an unexpected hand.

In every crowd, the old proverb has it, there are a knave and a fool. Between Sir George bursting
with passion, and the door by which he had entered and to which he turned, stood Lady Dunborough. To
whom, without geuing him leisure to speake, for feare lest his malice should be discouered,
he saide:“ O detestable villaine thou shalt die.” And therewithall he thruste the rapier into
him, to the hard hiltes, and doubling another blowe to make him faile of his speache, hee pearced
his throte, so fiercely, as the poore innocente after he had a little staggered, fell downe
deade to the grounde. When he had put up his rapier, he turned towards the Counsellers, and saide
vnto them:“ My frends, this is not the first time I haue espied the lasciuious and dishonest loue
betweene this my lecherous nephew and the Duchesse, whom I haue caused to die to honourably
in respect of his desert, for by the very rigor of the law, he deserued
to haue bin burnt quick, or els to be torne in peeces with foure
horses.

But my Ladie the Duchesse I meane not to punishe, or to prouide chastisement for her: For you
be not ignoraunt, that the auncient custome of Lombardie and Sauoye requireth that euery woman
taken in adulterie, shal be burned aliue, if within a yeare and a day she finde not a Champion
to fight the combate for her innocencie. But for the bounden duetie that I beare to my Lord
the Duke, and for respect of the estate which he hath committed to
my charge, I will tomorrow dispatch a poaste, to make him vnderstande
the whole accident as it is come to passe.

And the Duchesse shall remaine in this chamber, with certaine of her maids, vnder sure keeping
and safegarde.” All this time the Duchesse who had both iudgemente
and spirite so good as any Princesse that raigned in her time, suspected
by and by the treason of the Earle.

And with a pitifull eye beholding the dead body of her page, fetching
a deepe sighe, cried out:“ Oh, innocent soule: which sometime gauest
life to this bodye that nowe is but earth, thou art nowe in place
where thou seest clearelye the iniquitie of the murderer, that latelye
did put thee to death.” And hauing made an ende of this exclamation
with her armes a crosse, shee remained as in a sowne with out mouing
either hande or foote.

And after she had continued a while in that state, shee desired the
Counsellers to cause the bodye to be buried, and to restore it to
the earth whereof it had the first creation.“ For (quoth she) it
hath not deserued to be tied to the gibet, and to be foode for birds
of the ayre.” Which they graunted not without a certaine greuous suspicion
betweene her and the page.

For so muche as she excused not herselfe, but the innocencie of him, without speaking any worde
of her owne particular iustification. This pitifull aduenture was out of hande published through all
the Citie, with so great sorrow and murmure of the people, as it seemed the enemies had sacked
the towne. For there was not one, from the very least to the greateste of al, but did both loue
and reuerence the Duchesse, in such sort as it seemed vnto them, that this misfortune was fallen
vpon euery one of their children. The Earle of Pancalier did nothing all that day, but dispatch
the poastes. And hauing caused all the whole matter to be registred
as it was seen to be done, he commaunded the Counsellers, and them
of the Garde, to subscribe his letters.

And all the matter being put in order he sent away two currors with diligence, the one into
Englande to aduertise the king her brother, and the other to the Duke:
who being arriued, ech man in his place, presented their charges. Whereunto
both the brother and the husband gaue full credite without any maner
of difficultie: perswaded principally thereunto by the death of the
nephew: who (as it was very likely) had not been put to death by his
owne vncle, and of whom he was also the very heire, without his most
greueous fault, praysinge greatly the fidelitie of the Earle, that
had not pardoned his owne proper bloud, to conserue his dutie and
honour to his soueraigne Lorde.

And it was concluded betweene them, by deliberate aduise and counsaile,
as well of those of the king of England, as by a great nomber of learned
men of Fraunce, whom the French kinge made to assemble for that respect
in fauour of the Duke, that the custome should be so inuiolably kepte,
as if the Duchesse were the most simple damsell of all the countrie:
to the ende that in time to come, greate Lordes and Ladyes which be
as it were lampes to giue lighte to others, might take example.

And that from thenceforth they should not suffer their vertues to be obscured by the clouds of
such execrable vices. The king of England to gratifie the Earle of Pancalier: who (in his iudgement)
had shewed himself right noble in this act, sent him an excellent
harnesse, with a sword of the selfe same trampe by the Currour, with
letters of aunsweare written with his owne hand, how he vnderstode
the maner of his proceedings.

And the messenger vsed such diligence, as within few daies he arriued at Thurin. Shortly after
that the king of England had sent back the Currour, the Duke of Sauoie retorned his, whom he staied
so much the longer, because the matter touched him most neere: for he would that the matter
should be debated by most graue and deliberate counsell. And when he had resolued what to do,
he wrote to the counsellers and other Magistrates of Thurin, aboue al things to haue respecte
that the custome should be inuiolably obserued, and that they should not in any case fauour the adultery
of his wife, vpon paine of death. Then in particuler, hee wrote his letters to the Earle, whereby
he did greatly allow his fidelitie, for the which he hoped to make him suche recompence, as both
he and his should taste therof during their liues. The Currour of the duke arriued, and the
matter proponed in counsell, it was iudged, that (followinge the auncient custome) a piller of marble
should be placed in the fieldes neere Thurin: which is betweene the
bridge of the riuer Poo and the Citie, wherupon should be written
the accusation of the Earle of Pancalier against the Duchesse, which
the Duchesse vnderstanding (hauing none other companie but Emilia,
and a yong damsell) dispoiled herselfe of her silken garmentes, and
did put on mourninge weede, martired with an infinite nomber of sondrie
tormentes, seing herselfe abandoned of al worldly succour, made her
complaints to God: beseeching him with teares to be protector of her
innocencie.

Emilia who vnderstode by her that shee was vniustlie accused, and
seing the iminent perill that was prepared for her, determined by her
accustomed prudence to prouide therfore. And after she had a litle comforted
her she saide vnto her:“ Madame, the case so requireth that now you
must not consume time in teares and other womanish plaints, which
can nothing diminishe your euill.

It seemes most expediente vnto mee, that you fortefie your selfe againste your enemye, and finde
some meane to sende maister Appian in poaste to the Duke of Mendozza,
one of the best renowmed in prowesse of all the knightes in Spaine,
whoe being aduertised of your misfortune, wyll prouide so well for
your affaires, (that your honour being recouered) your life shall
remaine assured.

Wherefore if you will follow mine aduise, you shall write him an earnest letter (as you know right
wel how to indite) which Appian shal present on your behalfe. For if you follow not this counsel,
I know none els (as the world goeth now) that will hazarde his life vnder the condicion of so straunge
a lotte as yours is, specially hauing respect to the renowne and magnanimitie of the Earle,
who as you know, is in reputation to be one of the most valiaunt men
and most happy in armes that is in all Sauoie or Lombardie.”“ My deare
frende (quoth the Duchesse) doe what thou wilt: for I am so resolued
and confirmed in my sorowe, as I haue no care either of death or
life, no more than if I had neuer been borne. For neither in the
one nor in the other, can I forsee anye remedie for mine honour alreadie
lost.{”}“ Madame (quoth Emilia) let us for this time leaue the care
of honour in the hands of God, who knoweth both howe to keepe it
and restore it, as shall seeme good vnto him.

And let vs giue order for our parte that there be no want of diligence, for feare of being
ouertaken.” And hauing made an ende of her tale, shee gaue her incke and paper, sayinge vnto her:“
Now Madame I shall see at this pinche, if your harte will serue you at a neede or no.” The
Duchesse withdrew her selfe a part, and after she had longe discoursed in her minde of that which was paste
betweene the knight and her, she wrote vnto him as followeth:“ My Lord Mendozza, I do not write
these letters vnto you, vppon any hope to be deliuered by your meane from the poinaunt pricke
of fierce death which doth now besiege me, knowing death alwayes
to be the true port and sure refuge of all afflicted persons. For
since that God willeth it, nature permitteth it, and my heauie fortune
consenteth to it, I will receiue it with righte good will, knowinge
that the graue is none other but a strong rampier and impregnable
cartel, wherein we close our selues against the assaults of life,
and the furious stormes of fortune.

It is farre better (as appeareth manifestly by me) with eyes shut to waite in graue, than no
longer to experimente life (the eyes beinge open) liuing with so
many troubles vpon earth.

But gladly woulde I bringe to remembraunce, and set before your eyes how sometime I abandoned
the place which was no lesse deare vnto me than mine owne country where I was borne, and
delicatelye nourished in honor and delightes, to extende my selfe into an infinite nomber
of perills, contrarye to the deutie of those that be of mine estate, losinge the name of a Princesse
to take the title of a caytife pilgrim, for the onely seruent and vnmeasured loue which I bare you,
before I did euer see you, or by anye meanes bounde thereunto by
any your preceding benefites.

The remembraunce whereof (as I thinke) ought now to deliuer such an harde enterprise, to the
port of your conscience, that breaking the vaile of your tender hart, you shoulde therefore take pitie
and compassion of my straunge and cruell fortune. Which is not onely
reduced to the mercy of a most dolorous prison, and resteth in the
power of a bloudie and mercilesse tyrant: but (which is worse) in
the continuall hazarde of a shamefull death.

Which I do not much lament hauing long desired to accelerate the same with
mine owne hands, to finde rest in an other worlde: were it not that
by death I shoulde leaue an eternall blot to my good name, and a perpetuall
heritage of infamie to my house and kindred. Wherefore if it so be,
that frendship loketh for no rewarde, or that frendship cannot be paid but
by the tribute of an other, make me now to taste the auncient fruite
of frendship. And if pitie be the sole and onely keye of Paradise,
displaye it now on the behalfe of her, who (forsaken of al humaine succour)
attendeth but the fatall houre to be throwen into the fier as a poore
innocent lambe in sacrifice. And for that the bearer shal make you vnderstand
the rest by mouth (whom it may please you to credite as mine owne
selfe) I will make an ende of my heauie letter.

Beseching God to giue a good life vnto you, and to mee an honorable death.” The letter closed
and sealed vp with the seale of the Duchesse, shee commaunded Emilia to deliuer it to Appian, and to
require him to vse diligence, not ceasing to ride day and night vntil he come to the place where
they left the knight Mendozza, giuinge charge to make him vnderstande
(at length) her innocencie and false accusation.

Appian being dispatched, was so affected to please his maistresse, and so desirous to see her
deliuered of her imprisonmente, as hee ceassed not to trauaile day and night, till he came
within the frontiers of Spaine. And after that he had ridden yet two or three dayes iourney,
approching nere the place wher he thought to find the knight Mendozza, he began to inquire of the host
of the inne where he laye that nighte, as well of his good health, as of his other affayres, whoe made
him aunswere, that it wente euen so euill with him at that present, as with the poorest gentleman
of al Spaine: although that he were in deede a very great Lorde.“ For (quoth he) within these
few monethes past, his ennemies of Tolledo, whom he hath diuers times vanquished, have so wel allied themselues
together out of al partes of Spaine, that they haue brought a great armie to the field. And fortune
of the warre hath been so fauourable unto them, that they discomfited
Mendozza and all his armie.

Who hath retired himselfe, with those few of his people that hee could saue aliue, into a litle
towne of his, where yet to this present he is besieged. And so it is (as euery man sayth) that
he doth his endeuour maruellouslie well, in such sort as his ennemies cannot enter the towne.” Master
Appian then demaunded of him, if the towne besieged were farre of. And he answered, that it
was about VII. or VIII. poastes. Then withoute making any longer inquirie, he toke a guide
that accompanied him euen almoste to the campe. And when he sawe the towne a farre of, he sent the
guide backe againe, and went the same daye to offer his seruice to a certaine captaine of lighte
horsemen, who receiued him into wages, and then he bought armour to
serue his purpose. And maister Appian besides his learning was a wise
and polliticke man, and determined so sone as any skirmishe did begin
to be formost, and in deede he vsed the matter so well, as hee suffred
himselfe to be taken prisoner and to be caried into the towne.

And being within, he desired those that had taken him, to conduct him to the Lorde of Mendozza
their chieftaine: whoe knew him by and by, for that in the voyage which the Duchesse made
into Spaine, he saw him euer more neere her then any other of her gentlemen. And after that
the Lord of Mendozza had demaunded of him by what meanes he entred the towne, vpon his aunswere, he
perceyued that he was a man of good experience, and well affected to the seruice of his maistres,
that durst hazard his life in such wise to obey her desire. Incontinently maister Appian deliuered vnto
him the Duchesse letter: which when he had read, he retired into his chamber with maister Appian,
hauing his face all bedewed with teares: and because that the letter
did import credite, he prayed maister Appian to declare his charge.

Who said unto him,“ My lady the Duchesse which is at this day the most
afflicted Princesse vnder the coape of Heauen, commendeth herselfe vnto
your honour, and doth humbly besech you not to be offended for that at
her last being in Galisia, shee departed withoute accomplishing her promise
made vnto you: prayinge you to impute the fault vpon the importunitie
of the Duke her husband: whom being constrained to obey, she could not
satisfye the good will that she bare vnto you.{”} Then he began to
declare in order howe the Earle of Pancalier fell in loue with her,
and not beinge able to obtaine his desire, caused his nephew to hide
him vnder her bedde: and how hee had slaine him with his owne handes.

Finallye, the imprisonmente of the Duchesse, and the iudgemente giuen againste her. Wherat the
Lord of Mendozza was greatly astonned: and when hee had heard the whole discourse, hee began to conceiue
some euill opinion of the duchesse: thinkinge it to be incredible,
that the earle of Pancalier woulde so forget himselfe, as to murder
his owne proper nephewe and adopted sonne, to be reuenged of a seely
woman.

Neuerthelesse, he dissembled that which he thoughte, in the presence of maister Appian, and said vnto
him:“ Appian my frende, if mine aduerse fortune did not speake sufficiently for me, I could tel thee
here a long tale of my miseries: but thou seest into what extremitie
I am presently reduced, in sorte that I am vtterly vnable to succour
thy maistresse, I my selfe stil attending the houre of death: and
all the pleasures which presentlye I can doe for thee, is to set thee
at libertie from the perill prepared for vs.” And without longer talke,
hee caused a hot skirmishe to be giuen to his enemies, to set Appian
at large: who being issued forth, made certaine of his men to conduct
him to place of suretie.

Appian seinge no way for Mendozza to abandon his citie for peril of death prepared for him and
his, thoughte his excuse reasonable. And to attempt some other fortune,
he vsed such diligence, as he in short time was retourned to Thurin,
wher hauing communicated the whole matter to Emilia, she went straight
to the Duchesse, to whom she said:“ Madame, God giue you the grace
to be so constant in your aduersities, as you haue an occasion to
be miscontented with the heauy newes that Appian hath brought you.”
And then she began to recompt vnto her the misfortune of Mendozza,
the thraldome wherunto his enemies had brought him, and for conclusion,
that there was no hope of helpe to be expected at his handes.

Which when the Duchesse vnderstoode she cryed out:“ Oh, poore vnhappy woman, amongste all the most
desolate and sorowfull: thou mayst well now say that the lighte of thy life from henceforth beginneth
to extinguishe and growe to an ende: seing the succour of him, vpon
whom depended thine assuraunce, is denied thee. Ah, ingrate knight:
now knowe I righte well (but it is to late) that of the extreme loue
which I did beare thee, sprong the first roote of all mine euil, which
came not by any accident of fortune, but from celestiall dispensation
and deuine prouidence of my God: who now doth permit that mine hipocrisie
and counterfaite deuotion shall receiue condigne chastisemente for
my sinne.” And then Emilia, seing her so confounded in teares, said
vnto her:“ Madame, it doth euil become a greate and wise Princesse,
(as you hitherto haue euer been reputed) to tormente her selfe, sith
that you know howe all the afflictions which we receive from heauen,
be but proues of oure fidelitie: or as your selfe confesseth by your
complaintes, to bee iust punishment for our sinnes.

Nowe then be it the one or the other, you ought to be fortified against the hard assault of your
sorow: and to remit the whole to the mercie of God, who of his aboundant grace, will deliuer you
of your trouble, as he hath done many others when they thought themselues forsaken of all helpe,
by causinge certaine dropps of his pitie to raine down vpon them.”“
Alas, deare hart,” (quoth the Duchesse,)“ how easie a matter it is
for one that that is hole to comforte her that is sicke: but if thou
feltest my griefe thou wouldest helpe me to complaine: so greuous
a matter it is vnto mee, with life to loose mine honour.

And I must confesse vnto thee, that I sustaine a very cruel assault both againste death and
life, and I cannot either with the one or with the other, haue peace or truce in my selfe.
Ne yet do know how to dissemble my sorrowe, but that in the ende the same will be discouered by the fumes
of myne ardente sighes, which thinking to constraine or retaine, I do nothinge els but burie my
selfe within mine owne bodye: assuringe thee, that greater is one droppe of bloude that swelteth
the harte within, then all the teares that maye be wept in the whole life without. Wherefore
I pray thee leaue mee a litle to complaine my dolor, before I go to the place from whence
I shal neuer retorne.” Emilia, that willingly would haue sacrificed herselfe to redeeme the
Princesse from perill, not beinge able anye longer to endure the hard attempte wherewith pitie constrayned
her hart, was forced to goe forth and to withdraw herselfe into another chamber, where she
began to lament after so straunge maner, as it seemed that it had been
shee that was destened to death. Whiles these ladies continued thus in
their sorowes, the knight Mendozza toke no rest by day or night, ne
ceassed continually to thincke vpon the distresse of the Duchesse.
And after that he had well considered the same, hee accused himselfe
for fayling her at that greate neede, saying:“ Now do I well knowe
that I am for euer hereafter vtterly vnworthy to beare armes, or to
haue the honourable title of knight, sith the same order was giuen
me, wyth charge to succour afflicted persons, specially Ladies, whose
force onely consisteth in teares.

And yet neuerthelesse, I (like a caytife) haue so shamefullye neglected my dutye towards the chiefe person
of the worlde, to whom I am greatly bounden, as I die a thousand times that day wherein I thincke
vpon the same. It behoueth mee then from henceforth to establishe new lawes to my deliberation,
and that I breake the gate of mine auncient rigor: louing much better to die in honour, poore, and
disinherited, than to liue puissant, vnhappie, and a cowarde. Wherfore let fortune worke her wil:
sithens the Duchesse did forsake her countrie, to come to see me in her prosperitie, I may no lesse
do now, but visite her in her aduersitie.” Pressed and solicited inwardlye
with this newe desire, determined whatsoeuer happened to go to her
rescue, and hauinge giuen order to all that was necessary for the defence
of the Citie: putting his confidence in the fidelitie of those that
were within, caused all his Captaynes to be called before him: whom
hee did to vnderstande, how he was determined to go seeke succour, to
leuie the siege of his enemies. Duringe which time he constituted his
nere kinsman, his Liefetenaunte generall, and the nexte morning before
the daye appeared hee gaue a great alarme to his ennemies, wherein
hee escaped vnknowen.

Being mounted vppon a Ienet of Spaine and out of daunger, he toke post horse, and made such expedition
as hee arriued at Lions, where he prouided the beste armour that he could get for money, and two
excellent good horses, whereof the one was a courser of Naples.

'They came this way out of Calne,' Sir George retorted, singling the speaker out, and signing
to the people to make way that he might get at him.

'Ay, but they never--came to Chipnam,' the fellow answered, leering at him with drunken wisdom.
'D'you see that, master?'

'Which way, then?' Soane cried impatiently. 'Which way did they go?'

But the man only lurched a step nearer. 'That's telling!' he said with a beery smile. 'You
want to be--as wise as I be!'

Jeremy, the guard, seized him by the collar and shook him. 'You drunken fool!' he said. 'D'ye
know that this is Sir George Soane of Estcombe? Answer him, you swine, or you'll be in the
cage in a one, two!'

'You let me be,' the man whined, straggling to release himself. 'It's no business of yours,'
Let me be, master!'

Sir George raised his whip in his wrath, but lowered it again with a groan. 'Can no one make
him speak?' he said, looking round. The man was staggering and lurching in the guard's grasp.

'His wife, but she is to Marshfield, nursing her sister,' answered one. 'But give him his guinea,
Sir George. 'Twill save time maybe.'

Soane flung it to him. 'There!' he said. 'Now speak!'

'That'sh better,' the man muttered. 'That's talking! Now I'll tell you. You go back to Devizes
Corner--corner of the road to De-vizes--you understand? There was a car--car--carriage there
without lights an hour back. It was waiting under the hedge. I saw it, and I--I know what's what!'

Sir George flung a guinea to the guard, and wheeled his horse about. In the act of turning
his eye fell on the lawyer's steed, which, chosen for sobriety rather than staying powers,
was on the point of foundering. 'Get another,' he cried, 'and follow!'

Mr. Fishwick uttered a wail of despair. To be left to follow--to follow alone, in the dark,
through unknown roads, with scarce a clue and on a strange horse--the prospect might have appalled
a hardier soul. He was saved from it by Sir George's servant, a stolid silent man, who might
be warranted to ride twenty miles without speaking. 'Here, take mine, sir,' he said. 'I must
stop to get a lanthorn; we shall need one now. Do you go with his honour.'

Mr. Fishwick slid down and was hoisted into the other's saddle. By the time this was done Sir
George was almost lost in the gloom eat the farther end of the street. But anything rather
than be left behind. The lawyer laid on his whip in a way that would have astonished him a
few hours before, and overtook his leader as he emerged from the town. They rode without speaking
until they had retraced their steps to the foot of the hill, and could discern a little higher
on the ascent the turn for Devizes.

It is possible that Sir George hoped to find the chaise still lurking in the shelter of the
hedge; for as he rode up to the corner he drew a pistol from his holster, and took his horse
by the head. If so, he was disappointed. The moon had risen high and its cold light disclosed
the whole width of the roadway, leaving no place in which even a dog could lie hidden. Nor
as far as the eye could travel along the pale strip of road that ran southward was any movement
or sign of life.

Sir George dropped from his saddle, and stooping, sought for proof of the toper's story. He
had no difficulty in finding it. There were the deep narrow ruts which the wheels of a chaise,
long stationary, had made in the turf at the side of the road; and south of them was a plat
of poached ground where the horses had stood and shifted their feet uneasily. He walked forward,
and by the moonlight traced the dusty indents of the wheels until they exchanged the sward
for the hard road. There they were lost in other tracks, but the inference was plain. The chaise
had gone south to Devizes.

For the first time Sir George felt the full horror of uncertainty. He climbed into his saddle
and sat looking across the waste with eyes of misery, asking himself whither and for what?
Whither had they taken her, and why? The Bristol road once left, his theory was at fault; he
had no clue, and felt, where time was life and more than life, the slough of horrible conjecture
rise to his very lips.

Only one thing, one certain thing remained--the road; the pale ribbon running southward under
the stars. He must cling to that. The chaise had gone that way, and though the double might
be no more than a trick to throw pursuers off the trail, though the first dark lane, the first
roadside tavern, the first farmhouse among the woods might have swallowed the unhappy girl
and the wretches who held her in their power, what other clue had he? What other chance but
to track the chaise that way, though every check, every minute of uncertainty, of thought,
of hesitation--and a hundred such there must be in a tithe of the miles--racked him with fears
and dreadful surmises? 

Certified of this opinion, before he would open the matter, he considered what way were best
to geue knowledge therof to king Seleucus. And when hee had well debated of this matter, he deuised
this waye: hee knew that Seleucus loued his wife beyonde measure, and also that Antiochus
was so deare vnto him as his own life. Whereupon he thus sayde vnto the kyng.“ Noble Seleucus,
thy sonne is affected with a greuous maladie, and that (which is worse) I deme his sickenesse
to be incurable.” At whiche woordes, the sorowefull father began to vtter pitifull lamentation,
and bitterly to complayne of Fortune. To whome the Phisition sayde.--“ If it please you (my Lorde) to
vnderstande the occasion of his disease, this it is: The maladie that affecteth and languisheth
your sonne, is Loue: and the loue of such a woman, which except he enioy, there is no remedie
but death.”“ Alas (quoth the kinge, weeping with bitter teares) and
what woman is shee, but that I maye procure her for him, which am
kinge of all Asia, and am able with intreatie, money, giftes, or other
pollicie whatsoeuer, to make her obediente and willinge to my sonnes
requeste.

Tell me onely the name of the woman, that I maye prouide for my sonnes health, yea, thoughe
it coste me all my goodes and realme to, if otherwise shee cannot be gotten: for if he die what shall
I doe with my kingdome.” Whereunto Erasistratus aunswered.“ If it
like your grace, your sonne is in loue with my wife, but because the
loue of another man’ s wife seemeth vnto him vnreasonable, he dareth
not to manifest it for shame, but rather wisheth to die, then to open
his minde.

Howbeit, I by certaine euidente signes, do well perceiue it.” When Seleucus hearde these words, he
said.“ O Erasistratus! thou being so worthie a man, to whom fewe in goodnesse and humilitie be
comparable, so deare and wel beloued of mee, and beareth the bruite to be the very hauen and harborough
of wisedome, wilt thou not saue my sonne, which is a yonge man, nowe
vppon the floure of his youth, and most worthy of life: for whom
the empyre of all Asia is worthely reserued?

O Erasistratus! the sonne of thy frend Seleucus, is thy king, who through loue and silence, is at the
pointe of death, thou seest that for modestie, and honestie sake, at this his last and doubtfull
passage, he had rather chose to die, then by speaking to offend thee,
and wilte thou not helpe him? This his silence, this discretion, that
his reuerence which hee sheweth, oughte to moue thee to compassion.

Thincke my wel beloued Erasistratus, that if he loue ardently, that he was forced to loue: for
vndoubtedly, if he could not loue, he would doe the best he could not to loue: yea, and with
all his endeauour to resist it: but who is able to prescribe lawes
to loue?

Loue I knowe, not onelye forceth men, but also commaundeth the immortal
Gods: and when they be not able to resist, what can man’ s pollicie
preuaile?

Wherefore, who knoweth not what pitie mine owne deare Antiochus doth
deserue? who being constrained, can none otherwise do: but to be silent
in loue, is a most euident signe of a noble and rare vertue. Dispose
thy minde therefore, to helpe my sonne: for I assure thee that if
thou do not loue the life of Antiochus, Seleucus life must needes
be hated of thee: he cannot be hurt, but I likewise muste be touched
with griefe.” The wise Phisition, seing that his aduise came to passe
as he thought before, and that Seleucus was so instant vpon him for
the health of his sonne: the better to proue his minde and his intention,
spake vnto him in this wise.“ It is a common saying, my most dradde
soueraigne Lord, that a man when he is whole, can giue to him that
is sicke and weake, very good counsel.

You perswade me to giue my welbeloued wife to another man, and to forgoe her whom I moste feruently
doe loue, and in lackinge her, my life also must faile. If you do take from me my wyfe, you take
with her my life. Doubtfull it is my Lord, if Antiochus your sonne were in loue with the
queene Stratonica, your graces’ wyfe, whether you would be so liberall vnto him of her, as
you woulde that I should be of mine.”“ I would it were the pleasure of the Gods (sodenly aunswered
Seleucus) that he were in loue with my best beloued Stratonica, I sweare vnto thee, by the reuerence
that I haue always borne to the honourable memorie of my father Antiochus, and my graundfather
Seleucus: and I sweare by all the sacred Gods, that freelye and forthwith, I would render
her into his hands (althoughe shee be the dearest beloued vnto mee,) in suche wise as all the worlde
should know what the dutie of a good and louing father ought to be to such a sonne, as is my
intirely beloued Antiochus: whoe (if I bee not deceiued) is moste worthie of all helpe and succour.
Alas! this is a great vertue, in concealing that notable passion as an earnest affection of loue: and
is it not worthie to be consecrated to eternall memorie? Is he not worthie of all helpe and comfort?
Doth hee not deserue to be pitied and lamented of all the worlde?
Trulye he is worse then a cruel enemie, naye he is rather more fierce
and vnnatural then a sauage beast, that at such moderate behauiour
as my sonne vseth, wil not take compassion.” Many other wordes the
good father spake, manifestly declaring, that he for the health of
his sonne, would not onely sticke to bestowe his wife, but also willingly
his lyfe for his preseruation. Wherefore the Phisition thought it
not good any longer to keepe secrete the cause, but toke the king aside,
and said vnto him in this wyse.“ The health of your sonne (my deare Lorde
and Soueraigne) is not in my handes, but the same resteth in you,
and in your wife Stratonica: whom (as I, by certaine signes doe manifestly
know,) he ardentlie doth loue.

Your grace now doth knowe from henceforth what to do, if his life be dere vnto you.” And telling
the king the maner of his loue, he ioyfully toke his leaue.

The king now doubted but of one thing, which was how to perswade
his sonne to take Stratonica to wife: and howe to exhorte his wyfe,
to take his sonne to husbande.

But it chaunced for diuers causes, that easelye ynough he perswaded them both. And perchaunce, Stratonica
made a good exchaunge, in taking a yong man, to forsake him that
was olde. After Seleucus had made the accord betwene his wife and his
sonne, he caused al his army to assemble, which was very great: to whom
he said in this maner.“ My dere and louinge souldiours, which sith
the death of Alexander the great, haue (with mee) atchieued a thousande
glorious enterprises: I thincke it meete and conueniente that yee
be partakers of that which I purpose to bringe to passe.

Ye doe knowe that vnder mine Empyre, I have LXXII. kingdomes, and that
I beinge an olde man, am not able to attende so greate a charge:
wherefore (louinge companions) I purpose to deliuer and ridde you
from griefe of idlenesse, and my selfe from trouble and toyle, reseruing
to mee onely so much as lyeth betweene the Sea and the riuer Euphrates.

All the rest of my dominions I giue to my sonne Antiochus, vppon whom in marriage, I haue bestowed
my wife Stratonica, which thinge ought to contente you, because my will
and pleasure is such.” And when he had tolde them the loue and sicknes
of his sonne, and the discrete deuise of the gentle Phisition, in
the presence of all his armie, the mariage was celebrated betwene
Stratonica and Antiochus.

Afterwards he crowned them both kinge and Queene of Asia, and with
royall pompe and triumphe, the desired mariage was consummate. The
armye hearing and seing these thinges, very highly commended the
pietie of the father towards his sonne.

Antiochus then continued with his welbeloued wife in ioy and quietnes, liuing together in great
felicitie.

This was not hee that for matters of Ægipt did make warres with the
Romaines: but he that onely inferred warres vpon the Gallatians,
which out of Europa passed into Asia, out of which countrie hee chased
them, and ouercame them.

Of this Antiochus came Seleucus, which was father of Antiochus surnamed the great, that attempted
very notable warres against the Romaines, and not his great graundfather, that maried his mother
in law. Finally this Seleucus (of whom I recompt this historie) by giuing his wife to his sonne, did
accomplish a miraculous act, and worthy (in deede) of sempiternall remembraunce,
and greatlye to bee commended therefore, who although he had achieued
infinite victories ouer his enemies, yet there was none of them all
so great as the victorie of himselfe, and his passions.

For certainly Seleucus did vanquish his owne appetites, by depriuing
himselfe of his wife, whom hee loued and esteemed, aboue all worldly
thinges. THE TWENTY-EIGHTH NOUELL. Al the beastes of the worlde do
applye theimselues to other beastes of theyr kind, Timon of Athens onely
excepted: of whose straunge nature Plutarche is astonied, in the
life of Marcus Antonius.

Plato and Aristophanes do report his marueylous nature, because hee was
a man but by shape onely, in qualities hee was the capitall enemie
of mankinde, which he confessed franckely vtterly to abhorre and hate.
He dwelt alone in a litle cabane in the fieldes not farre from Athenes,
separated from all neighbours and company: he neuer wente to the
citie, or to any other habitable place, except he were constrayned:
he could not abide any mans company and conuersation: he was neuer
seen to goe, to any mannes house, ne yet would suffer them to come
to him.

At the same time there was in Athenes another of like qualitie, called Apemantus, of the very
same nature, differente from the naturall kinde of man, and lodged
likewise in the middes of the fields.

On a day they two being alone together at dinner, Apemantus said vnto him:“ O Timon what a pleasant
feast is this, and what a merie companie are wee, being no more but
thou and I.”“ Naie (quoth Timon) it would be a merie banquet in deede,
if there were none here but my selfe.” Wherein he shewed how like
a beast (in deede) he was: for he could not abide any other man, beinge
not able to suffer the company of him, which was of like nature.

And if by chaunce hee happened to goe to Athenes, it was onelye to speake
with Alcibiades, who then was an excellente Captaine there, wherat
many did marueile: and therefore Apemantus demaunded of him, why he
spake to no man, but to Alcibiades.“ I speake to him sometimes, said
Timon, because I know that by his occasion, the Atheniens shall receiue
great hurt and trouble.” Which wordes many times he told to Alcibiades
himselfe.

He had a garden adioyning to his house in the fields, wherin was a
Figge tree, wheruppon many desperate men ordinarily did hange themselues:
in place whereof, he purposed to set vp a house, and therefore was forced
to cutte it downe, for which cause hee went to Athenes, and in the
markette place, hee called the people about him, saying that hee had
newes to tell them: when the people vnderstoode that he was about
to make a discourse vnto them, which was wont to speake to no man,
they marueiled, and the citizens on euery parte of the citie, ranne
to heare him: to whom he saide, that he purposed to cutte downe his
Figge tree, to builde a house vpon the place where it stoode.“ Wherefore
(quoth he) if there be any man amonges you all in this company, that
is disposed to hange himselfe, let him come betimes, before it be
cutte downe.” Hauing thus bestowed his charitie amonges the people,
hee retourned to his lodging, wher he liued a certaine time after,
without alteration of nature; and because that nature chaunged not
in his life time, he would not suffer that death should alter, or
varie the same.

For like as he liued a beastly and chorlish life, euen so he required to
haue his funerall done after that maner. By his last will, he ordeined
himselfe to be interred vpon the sea shore, that the waues and surges
might beate and vexe his dead carcas.

Yea, and that if it were possible, his desire was to be buried in
the depth of the Sea: causing an Epitaphe to be made, wherin was described
the qualities of his brutishe life. Plutarche also reporteth an other
to be made by Calimachus, much like to that which Timon made himselfe,
whose owne soundeth to this effect in Englishe Verse. My wretched catife
dayes, expired now and past: My carren corps intered here, is fast
in grounde: In waltring waues of swel-ling Sea, by surges cast, My
name if thou desire, The Gods thee doe confounde.

THE TWENTY-NINTH NOUELL. Men commonly do reproue the honour of widowes, because they being twise or
thrise wedded, doe marrie againe: and albeit by outward apparaunce,
they which soe blame them seeme to haue reason, yet no man ought to
iudge the secrecie of the hart.

Mariage is holy and ought be permitted, and therfore by any meanes
not to be reproued.

Although it cannot be denied, but that the chast life is most perfecte, notwithstanding, that perfection
in nothing doth diminishe the other. The widowe marying againe doth not offende God by mariage,
and to the world she committeth the lest faulte. And because, manye
olde and aunciente widowes, in these dayes, may not after three or fower
mariages be dismaied and terrified from that state, I will recite
an Historie, auouched by S. Hierome, in an Epistle Ad Gerontiam viduam
de monogamia, whom for his holines and vertue, wee ought to beleue.

It is also pretely set forth by Pietro Messia de Seuiglia, an excellent authour, a gentleman of Spaine,
in the 34 Chapter of the first parte of his worke, called La Selua di varie Lezzioni. S. Hierome sayth,
that in the time of Pope Damasus, he sawe and knew in Rome, one woman lawfully maried to XXII. men,
and was the widowe of XXII. husbands: there was also a man which had had XX. wiues, and was
then the widower of the XX. Both which being free, and of equall state
and condition, they made suite one to other: and that either of them
might proue whether should be the victor, in buryinge ech other,
they maried together, which mariage was in great admiration amonges
the Romaines: who musinge which of them should die first, promised
that at the funerall, they would beautie the corpes, both with their
presence, and also with tokens of victorie.

It chaunced (sore against her will I dare say) that the woman died first. At the celebration
of whose buriall, all the Romaine husbandes laied their heades together,
howe they mighte exornate and garnish the funeralles. They concluded, to
goe before the corpes with Laurel garlands vppon their heades, singing
verses of praise for the obtaining of such a victorious conquest.

Now where the women
went, I cannot tell: for I finde written, that populus totius vrbis
præcedebat feretrum; wher populus, as I take it, signifieth the whole
route of men and women.

And yet I thincke womens’ hartes coulde skarce aforde to go before: therefore I thincke they came
behinde like mourners, bearinge braunches without leaues, their
beades in their handes, praying for all christen soules. But giuing
women leaue to mourne for such an ouerthrow, I woulde wishe all my
frendes that be widowes, to folow the noble Romaine matrone and widowe
called Annia, who (when her frendes and familiers, exhorted her to
marie againe, because She was yong and beautifull) aunsweared that
she would not.“ For, quoth she, if it be my fortune to haue a good
husband, as I had before, I shall still be afraied, lest death should
take him away: but if it be my chaunce to matche with one that is
euill, howe can I be able quietly to beare that, hauing had so good
a husbande before.” Declaringe thereby, that being ones well matched,
great heede ought to be taken, how to chose the nexte, leaste in making
hastie choise, leasure for repentaunce should folow.

THE THIRTYETH NOUELL. How Melchisedech a iewe, by telling a pretie tale of three kinges, saued his
life. Saladine, whose valiaunce was so great, that not onely the
same from base estate aduaunced him to be Souldan of Babilon, but
also thereby hee wanne diuers victories ouer the Saracene kinges and
christians: who throughe his manifolde warres and magnificent triumphes,
hauing expended al his treasure, and for th’ execution of one exploite,
lackinge a great summe of money, knewe not where to haue the same
so redily as he had occasion to imploy it.

At length he called to remembraunce a rich iewe named Melchisedech, that lent out money for interest
in Alexandria, whose greedie and couetous nature was such, that with his good will he would not
do it, and to force him the Souldan was very loth. Howbeit, compelled
by necessity, he cast his wits about him to finde a meanes how the
iew might serue his tourne, and thereuppon founde out a sleight and waye
by a colourable force. Who causing the iew to be called before him,
intertayned him familiarly, making him to sit downe besides him,
and said to him these words.“ Sir, I do learne by report of diuers,
that you are verye wise and well learned in thinges touching God, for
which cause I would gladly know of you which of the three lawes you
iudge to be most sincere and true: the Iewishe law, the Saracene law,
or the Christian lawe?” The Iewe which in deede was very wise, perceiued
wel that Saladine went about to intrappe him in wordes, thereby to
raise some quarell against him, and thought that it was not good for
him to praise one of those lawes more then another, leste Saladine
mighte take aduauntage of him.

Wherefore, to make a wise and discrete aunswere that he might not be ouer shotte, he sharpened
his wittes, and sodainly came into His remembraunce this aunswere.“
My Lorde, the question which you haue proponed is excellent, and to
declare vnto you that which I knowe, I muste tell you a tale, the better
to open my meaninge, which if it shall please you to heare, is this.
I doe remember (if I be not deceiued) that many times I haue heard
tell, how vppon a time there was a Noble man which was very rich,
and had amonges his other treasures, a verye beautifull ringe of great
price and estimation: which for the valour and beautie, hee was very
desirous perpetually, to leaue vnto his successors: willing and ordeining
that the same sonne which should haue that ring by the gift of his
father, after his decease, should be taken and reputed for his heire,
and should be honoured and magnified of the reste as the chiefest.

He to whom the same ring was left, obserued semblable order in his posteritie,
and did the like that his predecessor had done before him.

In short time, this Ryng succeded from hand to hand to many successors.
And last of al it came to the hand of one that had three goodly sonnes,
vertuous and very obedient to their father, who loued them all indifferently
and in equall maner, which knowing the order for the disposition of
that Ring, curious to be best esteemed and beloued, euery of them
prayed his father so well as seuerally they could, (which then was
aged) that when hee died he would giue him the Ring.

The good man which loued one no better then another, knew not which
of them to chose, to whom he might dispose it, and thought best to promise
the same to euery of them to satisfie all three.

Secretely he procured an excellente Goldsmith to make two other Rings, which accordinglye were
made so like vnto the first, as the owner himselfe vnnethes knew
one from the other.

And when he was vpon his death bedde, he secretly gaue to euery of his sonnes a Ring. Who after the
death of their father desirous to enter the inheritaunce and honour,
one goinge about to displace another, euery of them to declare what
title he had to enioy the same, brought forth his Ringe: and the ringes
were founde so like, that the true Ring could not be knowen.

Therefore the processe for the title remained in doubt and yet continueth
till this daye.

And so I say vnto you my Lord of the thre lawes giuen by God the
father to those three people, whereof you haue made the question: euery of those
Nations thinketh to enioy the inheritaunce of God, and to obserue the
true lawe and his commaundementes: but which of them hath the truest
law, that remaineth in doubt like the question of the Rings.” Saladine
perceyuing that Melchisedech knew right well how to auoide the snare
which hee had laied for him: determined therefore to open and disclose
vnto him his necessitie, to proue if he would do him that pleasure:
which hee did, telling him his intent and meaninge, if he had not
framed him that wyse aunsweare.

The Iewe liberally lent him the summe of moneye that he demaunded, which Saladine wholie repaied
vnto him againe, besides other very great rewardes that he gaue him, vsing him still for his frende,
and afterwards maintayned him next his person, in great and honourable state. THE THIRTY-FIRST
NOUELL. Longe sithens there was a gentleman at Genoua called M. Ermino Grimaldi, whoe as all men
thoughte, was the richest of possessions and ready money within that citie, and therin farre
excelled all other citizens which then were knowen in Italie. And as he did surpasse al other
Italians in substance and wealth, so in auarice and wretchednes he surmounted beyond measure
the most couetous and miserable of the worlde. For he kept his purse
so close that he did not onely neglecte to do good to other, but also
to himselfe, by sparinge many things necessary for his owne person:
he indured much hardnes in meate and drinke because he would spend
nothinge: contrary to the common custome of the Geneuois, who be wonte
very nobly and honourably to maintaine themselues in apparell and
fare.

For which cause his surname Grimaldi deseruedly was taken away, and was called of euery man nothing
els but M. Ermino the couetous. It chaunced in those dayes, that as he by spending nothing multiplied
his goods.

There ariued at Genoua an honest gentleman and well spoken, a Courtier
of good interteignement, named Guglielmo Borsiere, (nothing like the Courtiers
in these dayes that to their great shame, for their corrupt and rude
maners would be called and reputed gentlemen, which in deede maye
bee counted Asses, broughte vppe and noseled rather in the filthye
conditions of the vilest menne, then in Courtes.) In those dayes
Courtiers occupied themselues, in treatinge of peace and endinge
of quarelles that bredde strife and dissention amonges gentlemen,
or in makinge of mariages, amities, and attonementes, and with mery
woordes and pleasaunt, did recreate troubled mindes, and exhilarated
with pastimes other Courtiers, not with sharpe reprehensions, but
like fathers rebuking the liues of the wicked, and that for no gaine
or reward.

Where some of the Courtiers of oure age do imploye their time, in
ill reportes one of another, and do disseminate debate and strife,
vtteringe a thousande vnhappie and vile wordes, yea and that (which
is worst of all) in common audience.

Their maner is to reproue and checke one an other with iniuries, reproches
and nipping girdes, with false and deceiuable flatteries, villanously
and dissemblingly, to begile poore and needie gentlemen. Now and then, as they plodded
up the hill beyond Kingsdown, the servant uttered a low curse and Sir George groaned, while
Mr. Fishwick sighed in sheer exhaustion. It was a strange and dreary position for men whose
ordinary lives ran through the lighted places of the world. The wind swept sadly over the dark
fields. The mud clung to the squelching, dragging boots; now Mr. Fishwick was within an ace
of the ditch on one side, now on the other, and now he brought up heavily against one of his
companions. At length the servant gave him an arm, and thus linked together they reached the
crest of the hill, and after taking a moment to breathe, began the descent.

They were within two or three hundred paces of Bathford and the bridge over the Avon when the
servant cried out that some one was awake in the village, for he saw a light. A little nearer
and all saw the light, which grew larger as they approached but was sometimes obscured. Finally,
when they were within a hundred yards of it, they discovered that it proceeded not from a window
but from a lanthorn set down in the village street, and surrounded by five or six persons whose
movements to and fro caused the temporary eclipses they noticed. What the men were doing was
not at once clear; but in the background rose the dark mass of a post-chaise, and seeing that--and
one other thing--Sir George uttered a low exclamation and felt for his hilt.

The other thing was Mr. Dunborough, who, seated at his ease on the step of the post-chaise,
appeared to be telling a story, while he nursed his injured arm. His audience, who seemed to
have been lately roused from their beds--for they were half-dressed--were so deeply engrossed
in what he was narrating that the approach of our party was unnoticed; and Sir George was in
the middle of the circle, his hand on the speaker's shoulder, and his point at his breast,
before a man could move in his defence.

'You villain!' Soane cried, all the misery, all the labour, all the fears of the night turning
his blood to fire, 'you shall pay me now! Let a man stir, and I will spit you like the dog
you are! Where is she? Where is she? ***** SOLIMAN "THE GREAT."

Here is a specimen of the magnificence with which this historical
butcher treated his fellow-creatures:-- Among the many distinctions
of Soliman's reign must be noticed the increased diplomatic intercourse
with European nations.

Three years after the capture of Rhodes, appeared the first French
ambassador at the Ottoman Porte; he received a robe of honour, a
present of two hundred ducats, and, what was more to his purpose,
a promise of a campaign in Hungary, which should engage on that side
the arms of Charles and his brother, Ferdinand.

Soliman kept his promise. At
the head of 100,000 men and 300 pieces of artillery, he commenced this
memorable campaign.

On the fatal field of Mohacs the fate of Hungary was decided in an unequal fight. King Lewis,
as he fled from the Turkish sabres, was drowned in a morass. The next
day the sultan received in state the compliments of his officers. The
heads of 2,000 of the slain, including those of seven bishops and many
of the nobility, were piled up as a trophy before his tent.

Seven days after the battle, a tumultuous cry arose in the camp to massacre the prisoners and
peasants-- and in consequence 4,000 men were put to the sword.

The keys of Buda were sent to the conqueror, who celebrated the Feast of Bairam in the castle
of the Hungarian kings. Fourteen days afterwards he began to retire-- bloodshed and devastation
marking the course of his army. To Moroth, belonging to the Bishop of Gran, many thousands of
the people had retired with their property, relying on the strength of the castle; the Turkish
artillery, however, soon levelled it, and the wretched fugitives
were indiscriminately butchered.

Soane with a sharp movement plucked the door of the chaise open, and called hoarsely for a
light. A big dingy man in a wrap-rascal coat, which left his brawny neck exposed and betrayed
that under the coat he wore only his shirt, held up a lanthorn. And if my sute shall seeme reasonable,
and grounded vppon equitie, before I doe open and declare the same more at large, assure the performaunce
thereof vnto me by oth.” The king hearing her prayer to be so reasonable,
wherunto rather then to refuse it, he swore by his Scepter, taking
God to witnesse and all the heauenly powers for confirmacion of that
which he pretended to promise: saide vnto her:“ Madame, the onely
maistresse and keper of my louing harte, sith of your grace and curtesie
you haue vouchsafed to come vnto my Palace, to make request of my
onely fauoure and good will, which now I irreuocably do consent and
graunt, swearing vnto you by that honourable sacramente of Baptism,
whereby I was incorporated to the Church of God, and for the loue
that I beare you (for greater assuraunce I cannot giue) I will not
refuse any thing, that is in my power and abilitie, to the intent
you may not be in doubt whether I do loue you, and intend hereafter
to imploy my selfe to serue and pleasure you: for otherwyse I should
falsify my faith, and more feruently I cannot bind my selfe if I shoulde
sweare by all the othes of the worlde.” The fayre Countesse sitting
still vpon her knees, although the king many times prayed her to rise
vp, reuerently toke the king by the hand, saying:“ And I do kisse
this royal hand for loyall testimonie of the fauour which vour grace
doth shew me.” Then plucking out a sharpe knife, which was hidden
under her kirtle, all bathed and washed in teares, reclining her pitifull
eyes towardes the king, that was appalled with that sight, she said
vnto him:“ Sir, the gift that I require, and wherfore your faith is
bound, is this.

I most humblie desire you, that rather then to dispoile me of mine honour, with the sworde girded
by your side, you do vouchsafe to ende my life, or to suffer me presently,
with this sharpe pointed knife in my hand to thrust it to my hart,
that mine innocent bloud, doing the funerall honour, may beare witnesse
before God of my vndefiled chastity, as being vtterly resolued honourablie
to die. If 'twere not got ready for a job of this kind, why a half-inch shutter inside
the canvas blinds, and the bolt outside, 'swell as a lock? Mark that door! D'you ever see the
like of that on an honest carriage? Why, 'tis naught but a prison!'

He held up the light inside the carriage, and Sir George, the crowd pressing forward to look
over his shoulder, saw that it was as the man said. Sir George saw something more--and pounced
on it greedily. There is another tradition worthy of notice, that when the plague raged with
great violence at Shields, the persons who were employed about the salt works entirely escaped
the infection.

When the London mob was excited, by the movers of rebellion, against the bishop, this excellent
prelate, on his way to the House of Lords, was almost torn to pieces.

"Pull him out of his coach!" cried some; others, "nay he is a good
man;" others, "but for all that he is a bishop!"-- "I have often,"
says his biographer, heard him say, he believed he should not have
escaped alive if a leading man among that rabble had not cried out,
"Let him go and hang himself," which he was wont to compare to the
words of the angel uttered by Balaam's ass.

At that time he was seventy-six years of age, and, on that account, when the protesting prelates
were, for this act of duty, committed to the Tower, he was remitted to the custody of the usher;
and then, so little had he regarded the mammon of unrighteousness,
that he had scarcely wherewith to defray the fees and charges of his
confinement.***** AMERICAN COMFORTS.

Pittsburgh is full of coal and smoke; in New Orleans the people play
cards on Sunday; living is dear at Washington city, and codfish cheap
at Boston; and Irishmen are plenty in Pennsylvania, and pretty girls
in Rhode Island.***** SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

'Sakes!' cried the smith, 'whose is that?'

'I don't know,' Sir George answered grimly, and shot a glance of suspicion at Mr. Dunborough,
who was leaning against the fore-wheel.

But that gentleman shrugged his shoulders. Swam out of sight of the sands to rid myself of a view
of the excursion riff-raff thereon congregated.

Sea completely smooth, but cold.

Took a nip of----'s English Cognac.

Ramsgate.-- Very pleased to find myself abreast of the Royal Crescent,
which seemed delightful.

Cape Grisnez still bearing N. E. by E. Munched one of----'s excellent
Birchrod Biscuits.

Dover.-- Just had a good long rest in front of Clarence Lawn, which glistened in the sunlight.
Greatly refreshed after a drink of----'s Essence of Gravy beef.

Calais.-- A shower of rain came on at this point. However, one of----'s
excellent umbrellas kept my head dry, and, being easy to hold, did not
prevent me from swimming and writing up my log. 'There is something
scratched on it,' he said.

There was. CALCUTTA: THACKER, SPINK, AND CO. BOMBAY: THACKER AND CO., LIMITED. LONDON: W. THACKER
AND CO. 1884.

THIS POPULAR HISTORY OF OUR INDIAN MAMMALS IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED
(BY PERMISSION) TO ONE WHO TAKES A DEEP INTEREST IN ALL THAT CONCERNS
OUR EASTERN EMPIRE, THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF NORTHBROOK, G. C. S.
I., LATE GOVERNOR-GENERAL AND VICEROY OF INDIA.

PREFACE.

This work is designed to meet an existing want, viz.: a
popular manual of Indian Mammalia. Tullus
not contempning that condition, agreed. Whereupon both did put them selues in readines, and
before they ioyned, both the captaines with certain of their chiefe officers, came forth to
talke, where Metius sayde these wordes:“ The mutuall iniuries that hath been done, and the withholding
and keping of thinges caried away, contrary to the truce, and that our king Cluilius, is the
authour and beginner of these warres, I do heare and assuredly vnderstande
for a trothe. He was shaken by gusty impulses, now to strike Mr. Dunborough across
his smirking face, now to give some frenzied order, now to do some foolish act that must expose
him to disgrace. Appius being a man of nature cruell and malicious, measuring the malice of others,
by his owne maligne disposition, spake these woordes:“ I am not ignoraunte what fortune is nowe
imminente: for I do plainely see that whiles weapons be deliuered to our aduersaries, the combate
is deferred against vs: with bloude, enuie muste be rewarded.

I will not any longer delaie the time, but depriue my selfe of the decemuirate.” When the Senate
was aduertised by the Commissioners, Valerius and Horatius, of the peoples aunswere, they decreed
that the Decemuiri should be deposed, and that Q. Furius the chief bishop, should create that plebeian
Tribunes. Wherin also was enacted, that the departure of the people,
and mutine of the souldiours should be pardoned. 

The wretch had murdered him for the supposed hoard of a few shillings. The snow, from which
he afforded his murderer shelter, had drifted in at the door, which
the miscreant, when he fled, had left open, and was frozen red with
the blood of his victi