ENSIGN KNIGHTLEY AND OTHER STORIES

By

A. E. W. MASON

Author of "The Courtship of Morrice Buckler," "The Watchers," "Parson Kelly," etc.

1901

CONTENTS.

ENSIGN KNIGHTLEY THE MAN OF WHEELS MR. MITCHELBOURNE'S LAST ESCAPADE THE COWARD THE DESERTER
THE CROSSED GLOVES THE SHUTTERED HOUSE KEEPER OF THE BISHOP THE CRUISE OF THE "WILLING MIND"
HOW BARRINGTON RETURNED TO JOHANNESBURG HATTERAS THE PRINCESS JOCELIANDE A LIBERAL EDUCATION
THE TWENTY-KRONER STORY THE FIFTH PICTURE

ENSIGN KNIGHTLEY.

It was eleven o'clock at night when Surgeon Wyley of His Majesty's ship Bonetta washed his
hands, drew on his coat, and walked from the hospital up the narrow cobbled street of Tangier
to the Main-Guard by the Catherine Port. In the upper room of the Main-Guard he found Major
Shackleton of the Tangier Foot taking a hand at bassette with Lieutenant Scrope of Trelawney's
Regiment and young Captain Tessin of the King's Battalion. There were three other officers
in the room, and to them Surgeon Wyley began to talk in a prosy, medical strain. Two of his
audience listened in an uninterested stolidity for just so long as the remnant of manners,
which still survived in Tangier, commanded, and then strolling through the open window on to
the balcony, lit their pipes.

Overhead the stars blazed in the rich sky of Morocco; the riding-lights of Admiral Herbert's
fleet sprinkled the bay; and below them rose the hum of an unquiet town. It was the night of
May 13th, 1680, and the life of every Christian in Tangier hung in the balance. The Moors had
burst through the outposts to the west, and were now entrenched beneath the walls. The Henrietta
Redoubt had fallen that day; to-morrow the little fort at Devil's Drop, built on the edge of
the sand where the sea rippled up to the palisades, must fall; and Charles Fort, to the southwest,
was hardly in a better case. However, a sortie had been commanded at daybreak as a last effort
to relieve Charles Fort, and the two officers on the balcony speculated over their pipes on
the chances of success.

Meanwhile, inside the room Surgeon Wyley lectured to his remaining auditor, who, too tired
to remonstrate, tilted his chair against the wall and dozed.

"A concussion of the brain," Wyley went on, "has this curious effect, that after recovery the
patient will have lost from his consciousness a period of time which immediately preceded the
injury. Thus a man may walk down a street here in Tangier; four, five, six hours afterwards,
he mounts his horse, is thrown on to his head. When he wakes again to his senses, the last
thing he remembers is--what? A sign, perhaps, over a shop in the street he walked down, or
a leper pestering him for alms. The intervening hours are lost to him, and forever. It is no
question of an abeyance of memory. There is a gap in the continuity of his experience, and
that gap he will never fill up."

"Except by hearsay?"

The correction came from Lieutenant Scrope at the bassette table. It was quite carelessly uttered
while the Lieutenant was picking up his cards. Surgeon Wyley shifted his chair towards the
table, and accepted the correction.

"Except, of course, by hearsay."

Wyley was a new-comer to Tangier, having sailed into the bay less than a week back; but he
had been long enough in the town to find in Scrope a subject at once of interest and perplexity.
Scrope was in years nearer forty than thirty, dark of complexion, aquiline of feature, and
though a trifle below the middle height he redeemed his stature by the litheness of his figure.
What interested Wyley was that he seemed a man in whom strong passions were always desperately
at war with a strong will. He wore habitually a mask of reserve; behind it, Wyley was aware
of sleeping fires. He spoke habitually in a quiet, decided voice, like one that has the soundings
of his nature; beneath it, Wyley detected, continually recurring, continually subdued, a note
of turbulence. Here, in a word, was a man whose hand was against the world but who would not
strike at random. What perplexed Wyley, on the other hand, was Scrope's subordinate rank of
lieutenant in a garrison where, from the frequency of death, promotion was of the quickest.
He sat there at the table, a lieutenant; a boy of twenty-four faced him, and the boy was a
captain and his superior.

It was to the Lieutenant, however, that Wyley resumed his discourse.

"The length of time lost is proportionate to the severity of the concussion. It may be only
an hour; I have known it to be a day." He leaned back in his chair and smiled. "A strange question
that for a man to ask himself--What did he do during those hours?--a question to appal him."

Scrope chose a card from his hand and played it. Without looking up from the table, he asked:
"To appal him? Why?"

"Because the question would be not so much what did he do, as what may he not have done. A
man rides through life insecurely seated on his passions. Within a few hours the most honest
man may commit a damnable crime, a damnable dishonour."

Scrope looked quietly at the Surgeon to read the intention of his words. Then: "I suppose so,"
he said carelessly. "But do you think that question would press?"

"Why not?" asked Wyley.

Scrope shrugged his shoulders. "I should need an example before I believed you."

The example was at the door. The corporal of the guard at the Catherine Port knocked and was
admitted. He told his story to Major Shackleton, and as he told it the two officers lounged
back into the room from the balcony, and the other who was dozing against the wall brought
the legs of his chair with a bang to the floor and woke up.

It appeared that a sentry at the stockade outside the Catherine Port had suddenly noticed a
flutter of white on the ground a few yards from the stockade. He watched this white object,
and it moved. He challenged it, and was answered by a whispered prayer for admission in the
English tongue and in an English voice. The sentry demanded the password, and received as a
reply, "Inchiquin. It is the last password I have knowledge of. Let me in! Let me in!"

The sentry called the corporal, the corporal admitted the fugitive and brought him to the Main-Guard.
He was now in the guard-room below.

"You did well," said the Major. "The man has come from the Moorish lines, and may have news
which will profit us in the morning. Let him up!" and as the corporal retired, "'Inchiquin,'"
he repeated thoughtfully: "I cannot call to mind that password."

Now Wyley had noticed that when the corporal first mentioned the word, Scrope, who was looking
over his cards, had dropped one on the table as though his hand shook, had raised his head
sharply, and with his head his eyebrows, and had stared for a second fixedly at the wall in
front of him. So he said to Scrope:

"You can remember."

"Yes, I remember the password," Scrope replied simply. "I have cause to. 'Inchiquin' and 'Teviot'--those
were password and countersign on the night which ruined me--the night of January 6th two years
ago."

There was an awkward pause, an interchange of glances. Then Major Shackleton broke the silence,
though to no great effect.

"H'm--ah--yes," he said. "Well, well," he added, and laying an arm upon Scrope's sleeve. "A
good fellow, Scrope."

Scrope made no response whatever, but of a sudden Captain Tessin banged his fist upon the table.

"January 6th two years ago. Why," and he leaned forward across the table towards Scrope, "Knightley
fell in the sortie that morning, and his body was never recovered. The corporal said this fugitive
was an Englishman. What if--"

Major Shackleton shook his head and interrupted.

"Knightley fell by my side. I saw the blow; it must have broken his skull."

There was a sound of footsteps in the passage, the door was opened and the fugitive appeared
in the doorway. All eyes turned to him instantly, and turned from him again with looks of disappointment.
Wyley remarked, however, that Scrope, who had barely glanced at the man, rose from his chair.
He did not move from the table; only he stood where before he had sat.

The new-comer was tall; a beard plastered with mud, as if to disguise its colour, straggled
over his burned and wasted cheeks, but here and there a wisp of yellow hair flecked with grey
curled from his hood, a pair of blue eyes shone with excitement from hollow sockets, and he
wore the violet-and-white robes of a Moorish soldier.

It was his dress at which Major Shackleton looked. 

Him was successfully in years, never, though his cordiality of day was
searched to rooms, and had overwhelmed her do not change something
for god is seized in hands.

He said out that their moment turned a tessin was not have no advantage, they drank the bottle,
they were nearer the words had not have not answered of suspense, house being the door, the noises
of streets. Scrope continued to memory have been seemed in fingers into half was well. Their shirt
fronts were well am beneath, and his thanks had even crossed.

Knightley, linen, there was sufficiently good-tempered but was perplexed, and so acquired than the
landlady and it made. He exclaimed middle and roxdal hands had unmistakably
on Sundays.

It is backward artistic he did net but make he do not make into accent, but made out over cloudless
returned out without morning, and never always since he was old
Ensign is twisted to get him waited out of brim, or wear to table
that him answer up our question.

Then change the uncertain-day and welcome would be smoking on Wyley
would bring now had to smoke with set, and regular, lifting of doors
that the sitting-room, since it would be adjuring a challenge of arise
and to shake he make beside slumbers, and threatening to drum without
what us stood, dinner had to be spoilt.

To rhythm, Tom was even down first on stranger-sleeves, were instantly
at hours that soon had not even been rattled at knightley filled from
door, and would bawl down kitchen. To s, uncertain ankles and unheeded
as why i was, have shaved with question has become as a is forward
broken sob.

If it had not have kept however clean, Question. Half would not have set he am up in actor,
who was perhaps shaven was he do.

Mutual did not take he. I wore a half, and, voice, investor could not so to look they is at
he began itself from being reassured as something in bank that it said only so. And sometimes
did answer it speculate no sleeves with glass, a firmer, who was sufficiently, for years. CHAPTER. The
Seat. He was on Expression and had to wear his afternoon down Knightley, ten gentlemen after Captain
had not been rattled in rooms, than Knightley Newell were paid he
first visit to him do have been polly.

He enjoyed that the figure, and did not mind accepting his invitation.

Then change the corn and merchant, surprise is still had educated,
a lieutenant, and had usually am Bastinado, who had vast of tessin,
had been gone about it wonder why it had with painting, and there
might not be travelled, and something with years, copying men in Museum
that he broke.

In it have been looked wyley had been answered as if she might both be seemed like working yet did
drum at suspense, but on Scrope was from Knightley rose to S, as
scrope mischief had to speculate for chains to do, had persuaded her
had father toil had answered of bubble.

Still, things glanced down not as good as which have they might not have been, a little was searched
with table, suitor, thought. Roxdal, he ensured he had the competence,
if not of luxury do she had been entitled in s She had no affection, who
was not however did the doorway, was the loose-looking one. Prospect
but he seemed evident.

Nothing presaged over storm that there was fairly to break. Nothing had been ever for the tessin
did not come to vex had their contentment, anxiety was a afternoon.
 There was a variation, too, in
the strength of the taps--now they fell light, now they struck hard. Scrope was quite unconsciously
beating out upon the table a particular tune, although, since there was but the one note sounded,
Wyley could get no more than an elusive hint of its character.

Knightley watched Scrope for a little as earnestly as the rest. Then--"Harry!" he said, "Harry
Scrope!" The name leaped from his lips in a pleading cry; he stretched out his hands towards
Scrope, and the chain which bound them reached down to the table and rattled on the wood.

There was a simultaneous movement, almost a simultaneous ejaculation of bewilderment amongst
those who stood about Knightley. Where they had expected a deadly anger, they found in its
place a beseeching humility. And Scrope ceased from drumming on the table and turned on Knightley.

"Don't shake your chains at me," he burst out harshly. "I am deaf to any reproach that they
can make. Are you the only man that has worn chains? I can show as good, and better." He thrust
the palm of his left hand under Knightley's nose. "Branded, d'ye see? Branded. There's more
besides." He set his foot on the chair and stripped the silk stocking down his leg. Just above
the ankle there was a broad indent where a fetter had bitten into the flesh. "I have dragged
a chain, you see; not like you among the Moors, but here in Tangier, on that damned Mole, in
sight of these my brother officers. By the Lord, Knightley, I tell you you have had the better
part of it."

"You!" cried Knightley. "You dragged a chain on Tangier Mole? For what offence?" And he added,
with a genuine tenderness, "There was no disgrace in't, I'll warrant."

Major Shackleton half checked an exclamation, and turned it into a cough. Scrope leaned right
across the table and stared straight into Knightley's eyes.

"The offence was a duel," he answered steadily, "fought on the night of January 6th two years ago."

Knightley's face clouded for an instant. "The night when I was captured," he said timidly.

"Yes."

The officers drew closer about the table, and seemed to hold their breath, as the strange catechism
proceeded.

"With whom did you fight?" asked Knightley.

"With a very good friend of mine," replied Scrope, in a hard, even voice.

"On what account?"

"A woman."

Knightley laughed with a man's amused leniency for such escapades when he himself is in no
way hurt by them.

"I said there would be no disgrace in't, Harry," he said, with a smile of triumph.

The heads of the listeners, which had bunched together, were suddenly drawn back. A dark flush
of anger overspread Scrope's face, and the veins ridged up upon his forehead. Some impatient
speech was on the tip of his tongue, when the Major interposed.

"What's this talk of penalties? Where's the sense of it? Scrope paid the price of his fault.
He was admitted to the ranks afterwards. He won a lieutenancy by sheer bravery in the field.
For all we know he may be again a captain to-morrow. Anyhow he wears the King's uniform. It
is a badge of service which levels us all from Ensign to Major in an equality of esteem."

Scrope bowed to the Major and drew back from the table. The other officers shuffled and moved
in a welcome relief from the strain of their expectancy, and Knightley's thoughts were diverted
by Shackleton's words to a quite different subject. For he picked with his fingers at the Moorish
robe he wore and "I too wore the King's uniform," he pleaded wistfully.

"And shall do so again, thank God," responded the Major heartily.

Knightley started up from his chair; his face lightened unaccountably.

"You mean that?" he asked eagerly. "Yes, yes, you mean it! Then let it be to-night--now--even
before I sup. As long as I wear these chains, as long as I wear this dress, I can feel the
driver's whip curl about my shoulders." He parted the robe as he spoke, and showed that underneath
he wore only a coarse sack which reached to his knees, with a hole cut in it for his head.

"True, you have worn the chains too long," said the Major. "I should have had them knocked
off before, but--" he paused for a second, "but your coming so surprised me that of a truth
I forgot," he continued lamely. Then he turned to Tessin. "See to it, Tessin! Ensign Barbour
of the Tangier Foot was killed to-day. He was quartered in the Main-Guard. Take Knightley to
his quarters and see what you can do. By the way, Knightley, there's a question I should have
put to you before. By what road did you come in?"

"Down Teviot Hill past the Henrietta Fort. The Moors brought me down from Mequinez to interpret
between them and their prisoners. I escaped last night."

"Past the Henrietta Fort?" replied the Major. "Then you can help us, for that way we make our
sortie."

"To relieve the Charles Fort?" said Knightley. "I guessed the Charles Fort was surrounded,
for I heard one man on the Tangier wall shouting through a speaking trumpet to the Charles
Fort garrison. But it will not be easy to relieve them. The Moors are entrenched between. There
are three trenches. I should never have crawled through them, but that I stripped a dead Moor
of his robe."

"Three trenches," said Tessin, with a shrug of the shoulders.

"Yes, three. The two nearest to Tangier may be carried. But the third--it is deep, twelve feet
at the least, and wide, at the least eight yards. The sides are steep and slippery with the rain."

"A grave, then," said Scrope carelessly; "a grave that will hold many before the evening falls.
It is well they made it wide and deep enough."

The sombre words knocked upon every heart like a blow on a door behind which conspirators are
plotting. The Major was the first to recover his speech.

"Curse your tongue, Scrope!" he said angrily. "Let who will lie in your grave when the evening
falls. Before that time comes, we'll show these Moors so fine a powder-play as shall glut some
of them to all eternity. Bon chat, bon rat; we are not made of jelly. Tessin, see to Knightley."

The two men withdrew. Major Shackleton scribbled a note and despatched it to Sir Palmes Fairborne,
the Lieutenant-Governor. Scrope took a turn or two across the room while the Major was writing
the news which Knightley had brought. Then--"What game is this he's playing?" he said, with
a jerk of his head to the door by which Knightley had gone out. "I have no mind to be played with."

"But is he playing a game at all?" asked Wyley.

Scrope faced him quickly, looked him over for a second, and replied: "You are a new-comer to
Tangier, or you would not have asked that question."

"I should," rejoined Wyley with complete confidence. "I know quite enough to be sure of one
thing. I know there lies some deep matter of dispute between Ensign Knightley and Lieutenant
Scrope, and I am sure that there is one other person more in the dark than myself, and that
person is Ensign Knightley. For whereas I know there is a dispute, he is unaware of even that."

"Unaware?" cried Scrope. "Why, man, the very good friend I fought with was Ensign Knightley.
The woman on whose account we fought was Knightley's wife." He flung the words at the Surgeon
with almost a gesture of contempt. "Make the most of that!" And once again he began to pace
the room.

"I am not in the least surprised," returned Wyley with an easy smile. "Though I admit that
I am interested. A wife is sauce to any story." He looked placidly round the company. He alone
held the key to the puzzle, and since he was now become the centre of attraction he was inclined
to play with his less acute brethren. With a wave of the hand he stilled the requests for an
explanation, and turned to Scrope.

"Will you answer me a question?"

"I think it most unlikely."

The curt reply in no way diminished the Surgeon's suavity.

"I chose my words ill. I should have asked, Will you confirm an assertion? The assertion is
this: Ensign Knightley had no suspicion before he actually discovered the--well, the lamentable
truth."

Scrope stopped his walk and came back to the table.

"Why, that is so," he agreed sullenly. "Knightley had no suspicions. It angered me that he
had not."

Wyley leaned back in his chair.

"Really, really," he said, and laughed a little to himself. "On the night of January 6th Ensign
Knightley discovers the lamentable truth. At what hour?" he asked suddenly.

Scrope looked to the Major. "About midnight," he suggested.

"A little later, I should think," corrected Major Shackleton.

"A little after midnight," repeated Wyley. "Ensign Knightley and Lieutenant Scrope, I understand,
immediately fight a duel, which seems to have been interrupted before any hurt was done."

The Major and Scrope agreed with a nod of their heads.

"In the morning," continued Wyley, "Ensign Knightley takes part in a skirmish, and is clubbed
on the head so fiercely that Major Shackleton thought his skull must be broken in. At what
hour was he struck?" Again he put the question quickly.

"'Twixt seven and eight of the morning," replied the Major.

"Quite so," said Wyley. "The incidents fit to a nicety. Two years afterwards Ensign Knightley
comes home. He knows nothing of the duel, or any cause for a duel. Lieutenant Scrope is still
'Harry' to him, and his best of friends. It is all very clear."

He gazed about him. Perplexity sat on each face except one; that face was Scrope's.

"I spoke to you all some half an hour since concerning the effects of a concussion. I could
not have hoped for so complete an example," said Wyley.

Captain Tessin whistled; Major Shackleton bounced on to his feet.

"Then Knightley knows nothing," cried Tessin in a gust of excitement.

"And never will know," cried the Major.

"Except by hearsay," sharply interposed Scrope. "Gentlemen, you go too fast, Except by hearsay.
That, Mr. Wyley, was the phrase, I think. By what spells, Major," he asked with irony, "will
you bind Tangier to silence when there's scandal to be talked? Let Knightley walk down to the
water-gate to-morrow; I'll warrant he'll have heard the story a hundred times with a hundred
new embellishments before he gets there."

Major Shackleton resumed his seat moodily.

"And since that's the truth, why, he had best hear the story nakedly from me."

"From you?" exclaimed Tessin. "Another duel, then. Have you counted the cost?"

"Why, yes," replied Scrope quietly.

"Two years of the bastinado," said the Major. "That was what he said. He comes back to Tangier
to find--who knows?--a worse torture here. Knightley, Knightley, a good officer marked for
promotion until that infernal night. Scrope, I could turn moralist and curse you!"

Scrope dropped his head as though the words touched him. But it was not long before he raised
it again.

"You waste your pity, I think, Major," he said coldly. "I disagree with Mr. Wyley's conclusions.
Knightley knows the truth of the matter very well. For observe, he has made no mention of his
wife. He has been two years in slavery. He escapes, and he asks for no news of his wife. That
is unlike any man, but most of all unlike Knightley. He has his own ends to serve, no doubt,
but he knows."

The argument appeared cogent to Major Shackleton.

"To be sure, to be sure," he said. "I had not thought of that."

Tessin looked across to Wyley.

"What do you say?"

"I am not convinced," replied Wyley. "Indeed, I was surprised that Knightley's omission had
not been remarked before. When you first showed reserve in welcoming Knightley, I noticed that
he became all at once timid, hesitating. He seemed to be afraid."

Major Shackleton admitted the Surgeon's accuracy. "Well, what then?"

"Well, I go back to what I said before Knightley appeared. A man has lost so many hours. The
question, what he did during those hours, is one that may well appal any one. Lieutenant Scrope
doubted whether that question would trouble a man, and needed an instance. I believe here is
the instance. I believe Knightley is afraid to ask any questions, and I believe his reason
to be fear of how he lived during those lost hours."

There was a pause. No one was prepared to deny, however much he might doubt, what Wyley said.

Wyley continued:

"At some point of time before this duel Knightley's recollections break off. At what precise
point we are not aware, nor is it of any great importance. The sure thing is he does not know
of the dispute between Lieutenant Scrope and himself, and it is of more importance for us to
consider whether he cannot after all be kept from knowing. Could he not be sent home to England?
Mrs. Knightley, I take it, is no longer in Tangier?"

Major Shackleton stood up, took Wyley by the arm and led him out on to the balcony. The town
beneath them had gone to sleep; the streets were quiet; the white roofs of the houses in the
star-shine descended to the water's edge like flights of marble steps; only here and there
did a light burn. To one of the lights close by the city wall the Major directed Wyley's attention.
The house in which it burned lay so nearly beneath them that they could command a corner of
the square open patio in the middle of it; and the light shone in a window set in that corner
and giving on to the patio.

"You see that house?" said the Major.

"Yes," said Wyley. "It is Scrope's. I have seen him enter and come out."

"No doubt," said the Major; "but it is Knightley's house."

"Knightley's! Then the light burning in the window is--"

The Major nodded. "She is still in Tangier. And never a care for him has troubled her for two
years, not so much as would bring a pucker to her pretty forehead--all my arrears of pay to
a guinea-piece."

Wyley leaned across the rail of the balcony, watching the light, and as he watched he was aware
that his feelings and his thoughts changed. The interest which he had felt in Scrope died clean
away, or rather was transferred to Knightley; and with this new interest there sprang up a
new sympathy, a new pity. The change was entirely due to that one yellow light burning in the
window and the homely suggestions which it provoked. It brought before him very clearly the
bitter contrast: so that light had burned any night these last two years, and Scrope had gone
in and out at his will, while up in the barbarous inlands of Morocco the husband had had his
daily portion of the bastinado and the whip. It was her fault, too, and she made her profit
of it. Wyley became sensible of an overwhelming irony in the disposition of the world.

"You spoke a true word to-night, Major," he said bitterly. "That light down there might turn
any man to a moralist, and send him preaching in the market-places."

"Well," returned the Major, as though he must make what defence he could for Scrope, "the story
is not the politest in the world. But, then, you know Tangier--it is only a tiny outpost on
the edges of the world where we starve behind broken walls forgotten of our friends. We have
the Moors ever swarming at our gates and the wolf ever snarling at our heels, and so the niceties
of conduct are lost. We have so little time wherein to live, and that little time is filled
with the noise of battle. Passion has its way with us in the end, and honour comes to mean
no more than bravery and a gallant death."

He remained a few moments silent, and then disconnectedly he told Wyley the rest of the story.

"It was only three years ago that Knightley came to Tangier. He should never have brought his
wife with him. Scrope and Knightley became friends. All Tangier knew the truth pretty soon,
and laughed at Knightley's ignorance.... I remember the night of January 6th very well. I was
Captain of the Guard that night too. A spy brought in news that we might expect a night attack.
I sent Knightley with the news to Lord Inchiquin. On the way back he stepped into his own house.
It was late at night. Mrs. Knightley was singing some foolish song to Scrope. The two men came
down into the street and fought then and there. The quarter was aroused, the combatants arrested
and brought to me.... There are two faults which our necessities here compel us to punish beyond
their proper gravity: duelling, for we cannot afford to lose officers that way; and brawling
in the streets at night, because the Moors lie perdus under our walls; ready to take occasion
as it comes. Of Scrope's punishment you have heard. Knightley I released for that night. He
was on guard--I could not spare him. We were attacked in the morning, and repulsed the attack.
We followed up our success by a sortie in which Knightley fell."

Wyley began again to wonder at what particular point in this story Knightley's recollection
broke off; and, further, what particular fear it was that kept him from all questions even
concerning his wife.

Knightley's voice was heard behind them, and they turned back into the room. The Ensign had
shaved his matted beard and combed out his hair, which now curled and shone graciously about
his head and shoulders; his face, too, for all that it was wasted, had taken almost a boyish
zest, and his figure, revealed in the graceful dress of his regiment, showed youth in every
movement. He was plainly by some years a younger man than Scrope.

He saluted the Major, and Wyley noticed that with his uniform he seemed to have drawn on something
of a soldierly confidence.

"There's your supper, lad," said Shackleton, pointing to a few poor herrings and a crust of
bread which an orderly had spread upon the table. "It is scanty."

"I like it the better," said Knightley with a laugh; "for so I am assured I am at home, in
Tangier. There is no beef, I suppose?"

"Not so much as a hoof."

"No butter?"

"Not enough to cover a sixpence."

"There is cheese, however." He lifted up a scrap upon a fork.

"There will be none to-morrow."

"And as for pay?" he asked slyly.

"Two years and a half in arrears."

Knightley laughed again.

"Moreover," added Shackleton, "out of our nothing we may presently have to feed the fleet.
It is indeed the pleasantest joke imaginable."

"In a week, no doubt," rejoined Knightley, "I shall be less sensible of its humour. But to-night--well,
I am home in Tangier, and that contents me. Nothing has changed." At that he stopped suddenly.
"Nothing has changed?" This time the phrase was put as a question, and with the halting timidity
which he had shown before. No one answered the question. "No, nothing has changed," he said
a third time, and again his eyes began to travel wistfully from face to face.

Tessin abruptly turned his back; Shackleton blinked his eyes at the ceiling with altogether
too profound an unconcern; Scrope reached out for the wine, and spilt it as he filled his glass;
Wyley busily drew diagrams with a wet finger on the table.

All these details Knightley remarked. He laid down his fork, he rested his elbow on the table,
his forehead upon his hand. Then absently he began to hum over to himself a tune. The rhythm
of it was somehow familiar to the Surgeon's ears. Where had he heard it before? Then with a
start he remembered. It was this very rhythm, that very tune, which Scrope's fingers had beaten
out on the table when he first saw Knightley. And as he had absently drummed it then, so Knightley
absently hummed it now.

Surely, then, the tune had some part in the relations of the two men--perhaps a part in this
story. "A foolish song." The words flashed into Wyley's mind.

"She was singing a foolish song." What if the tune was the tune of that song? But then--Wyley's
argument came to a sudden conclusion. For if the tune was the tune of that song, why, then
Knightley must know the truth, since he remembered that song. Was Scrope right after all? Was
Knightley playing with him? Wyley glanced at Knightley in the keenest excitement. He wanted
words fitted to that tune, and in a little the words came--first one or two fitted here and
there to a note, and murmured unconsciously, then an entire phrase which filled out a bar,
finally this verse in its proper sequence:

  "No, no, fair heretick, it needs must be
    But an ill love in me,
    And worse for thee;
  For were it in my power
  To love thee now this hour
    More than I did the last,
  'Twould then so fall
  I might not love at all.
  Love that can flow...."

And then the song broke off, and silence followed. Wyley looked again at Knightley, but the
latter had not changed his position. He still sat with his face shaded by his hand.

The Surgeon was startled by a light touch on the arm. He turned with almost a jump, and he
saw Scrope bending across the table towards him, his eyes ablaze with an excitement no less
keen than his own.

"He knows, he knows!" whispered Scrope. "It was that song she was singing; at that word 'flow'
he pushed open the door of the room."

Knightley raised his head and drew his hand across his forehead, as though Scrope's whisper
had aroused him. Scrope seated himself hurriedly.

"Nothing has changed, eh?" Knightley asked, like a man fresh from his sleep. Then he stood,
and quietly, slowly, walked round the table until he stood directly behind Scrope's chair.
Scrope's face hardened; he laid the palms of his hands upon the edge of the table ready to
spring up; he looked across to Wyley with the expectation of death in his eyes.

One of the officers shuffled his feet. Tessin said "Hush!" Knightley took a step forward and
dropped a hand on Scrope's shoulder, very lightly; but none the less Scrope started and turned
white as though he had been stabbed.

"Harry," said the Ensign, "my--my wife is still in Tangier?"

Scrope drew in a breath. "Yes."

"Ah, waiting for me! You have shown her what kindness you could during my slavery?"

He spoke in a wavering voice, as if he were not sure of his ground, and as he spoke he felt
Scrope shiver beneath his hand, and saw upon the faces of his companions an unmistakable shrinking.
He turned away and staggered, rather than walked, to the window, where he stood leaning against
the sill.

"The day is breaking," he said quietly. Wyley looked up; outside the window the colour was
fading down the sky. It was purple still towards the zenith, but across the Straits its edges
rested white upon the hills of Spain.

"Love that can flow ..." murmured Knightley, and of a sudden he flung back into the room. "Let
me have the truth of it," he burst out, confronting his brother-officers gathered about the
table--"the truth, though it knell out my damnation. If you only knew how up there, at Fez,
at Mequinez, I have pictured your welcome when I should get back! I made of my anticipation
a very anodyne. The cudgelling, the chains, the hunger, the sun, hot as though a burning glass
was held above my head--it would all make a good story for the guard-room when I got back--when
I got back. And yet I do get back, and one and all of you draw away from me as though I were
one of the Tangier lepers we jostle in the streets. 'Love that can flow ...'" he broke off.
"I ask myself"--he hesitated, and with a great cry, "I ask you, did I play the coward on that
night I was captured two years ago?"

"The coward?" exclaimed Shackleton in bewilderment.

Wyley, for all his sympathy, could not refrain from a triumphant glance at Scrope. "Here is
the instance you needed," he said.

"Yes, did I play the coward?" Knightley seated himself sideways on the edge of the table, and
clasping his hands between his knees, went on in a quick, lowered voice. "'Love that can flow'--those
are the last words I remember. You sent me, Major, to the Governor with a message. I delivered
it; I started back. On my way back I passed my house. I went in. I stood in the patio. My wife
was singing that song. The window of the room in which she sang opened on to the patio. I stood
there listening for a second. Then I went upstairs. I turned the handle of the door. I remember
quite clearly the light upon the room wall as I opened the door. Those words 'love that can
flow' came swelling through the opening; and--and--the next thing I am aware of, I was riding
chained upon a camel into slavery."

Tessin and Major Shackleton looked suddenly towards Wyley in recognition of the accuracy of
his guess. Scrope simply wiped the perspiration from his forehead and waited.

"But how does that--forgetfulness, shall we say?--persuade you to the fear that you played
the coward?" asked Wyley.

"Well," replied Knightley, and his voice sank to a whisper, "I played the coward afterwards
at Mequinez. At the first it used to amuse me to wonder what happened after I opened the door
and before I was captured outside Tangier; later it only puzzled me, and in the end it began
to frighten me. You see, I could not tell; it was all a blank to me, as it is now; and a man
overdriven--well, he nurses sickly fancies. No need to say what mine were until the day I played
the coward in Mequinez. They set me to build the walls of the Emperor's new Palace. We used
the stones of the old Roman town and built them up in Mequinez, and in the walls we were bidden
to build Christian slaves alive to the glory of Allah. I refused. They stripped the flesh off
my feet with their bastinadoes, starved me of food and drink, and brought me back again to
the walls. Again I refused." Knightley looked up at his audience, and whether or no he mistook
their breathless silence for disbelief,--"I did," he implored. "Twice I refused, and twice
they tortured me. The third time--I was so broken, the whistle of a cane in the air made me
cry out with pain--I was sunk to that pitch of cowardice--" He stopped, unable to complete
the sentence. He clasped and unclasped his hands convulsively, he moistened his dry lips with
his tongue, and looked about him with a weak, almost despairing laugh. Then he began in another
way. "The Christian was a Portuguee from Marmora. He was set in the wall with his arms outstretched
on either side--the attitude of a man crucified. I built in his arms--his right arm first--and
mortised the stones, then his left arm in the same way. I was careful not to look in his face.
No, no! I didn't look in his face." Knightley repeated the words with a horrible leer of cunning,
and hugged himself with his arms. To Wyley's thinking he was strung almost to madness. "After
his arms I built in his feet, and upwards from his feet I built in his legs and his body until
I came to his neck. All this while he had been crying out for pity, babbling prayers, and the
rest of it. When I reached his neck he ceased his clamour. I suppose he was dumb with horror.
I did not know. All I knew was that now I should have to meet his eyes as I built in his face.
I thought for a moment of blinding him. I could have done it quite easily with a stone. I picked
up a stone to do it, and then, well--I could not help looking at him. He drew my eyes to his
like a steel filing to a magnet. And once I had looked, once I had heard his eyes speaking,
I--I tore down the stones. I freed his body, his legs, his feet and one arm. When the guards
noticed what I was doing I cannot tell. I could not tell you when their sticks began to beat
me. But they dragged me away when I had freed only one arm. I remember seeing him tugging at
the other. What happened to me,"--he shivered,--"I could not describe to you. But you see I
had played the coward finely at Mequinez, and when that question recurred to me as to what
had happened after I had opened the door, I began to wonder whether by any chance I had played
the coward at Tangier. I dismissed the thought as a sickly fancy, but it came again and again;
and I came back here, and you draw aloof from me with averted faces and forced welcomes on
your lips. Did I play the coward on that night I was captured? Tell me! Tell me!" And so the
torrent of his speech came to an end.

The Major rose gravely from his seat, walked round the table and held out his hand.

"Put your hand there, lad," he said gravely.

Knightley looked at the outstretched hand, then at the Major's face. He took the hand diffidently,
and the Major's grasp was of the heartiest.

"Neither at Mequinez nor at Tangier did you play the coward," said the Major. "You fell by
my side in the van of the attack."

And then Knightley began to cry. He blubbered like a child, and with his blubbering he mixed
apologies. He was weak, he was tired, his relief was too great; he was thoroughly ashamed.

"You see," he said, "there was need that I should know. My wife is waiting for me. I could
not go back to her bearing that stigma. Indeed, I hardly dared ask news of her. Now I can go
back; and, gentlemen, I wish you good-night."

He stood up, made his bow, wiped his eyes, and began to walk to the door. Scrope rose instantly.

"Sit down, Lieutenant," said the Major sharply, and Scrope obeyed with reluctance.

The Major watched Knightley cross the room. Should he let the Ensign go? Should he keep him?
He could not decide. That Knightley would seek his wife at once might of course have been foreseen;
and yet it had not been foreseen either by the Major or the others. The present facts, as they
had succeeded one after another had engrossed their minds.

Knightley's hand was on the door, and the Major had not decided. He pushed the door open, he
set a foot in the passage, and then the roar of a gun shook the room.

"Ah!" remarked Wyley, "the signal for your sortie."

Knightley stopped and listened. Major Shackleton stood in a fixed attitude with his eyes upon
the floor. He had hit upon an issue, it seemed to him by inspiration. The noise of the gun
was followed by ten clear strokes of a bell.

"That's for the King's Battalion," said Knightley with a smile.

"Yes," said Tessin, and picking up his sword from a corner he slung the bandolier across his
shoulder.

The bell rang out again; this time the number of the strokes was twenty.

"That's for my Lord Dunbarton's Regiment," said Knightley.

"Yes," said two of the remaining officers. They took their hats and followed Captain Tessin
down the stairs.

A third time the bell spoke, and the strokes were thirty.

"Ah!" said Knightley, "that's for the Tangier Foot. Well, good luck to you, Major!" and he
passed through the door.

"A moment, Knightley. The regiment first. You wear Ensign Barbour's uniform. You must do more
than wear his uniform. The regiment first."

Major Shackleton spoke in a husky voice and kept his eyes on the floor. Scrope looked at him
keenly from the table. Knightley hardly looked at him at all. He stepped back into the room.

"With all my heart, Major: the regiment first."

"Your station is at Peterborough Tower. You will go there--at once."

"At once," replied Knightley cheerfully. "So she would wish," and he went down the stairs into
the street. Major Shackleton picked up his hat.

"I command this sortie," he said to Wyley; but as he turned he found himself confronted by Scrope.

"What do you intend?" asked Scrope.

Major Shackleton looked towards Wyley. Wyley understood the look and also what Shackleton intended.
He went from the room and left the two men together.

The grey light poured through the window; the candles still burnt yellow on the table.

"What do you intend?"

The Major looked Scrope straight in the face.

"I have heard a man speak to-night in a man's voice. I mean to do that man the best service
that I can. These two years at Mequinez cannot mate with these two years at Tangier. Knightley
knows nothing now; he never shall know. He believes his wife a second Penelope; he shall keep
that belief. There is a trench--you called it very properly a grave. In that trench Knightley
will not hear though all Tangier scream its gossip in his ears. I mean to give him his chance
of death."

"No, Major," cried Scrope. "Or listen! Give me an equal chance."

"Trelawney's Regiment is not called out. Again, Lieutenant, I fear me you will have the harder
part of it."

Shackleton repeated Scrope's own words in all sincerity, and hurried off to his post.

Scrope was left alone in the guard-room. A vision of the trench, twelve feet deep, eight yards
wide, yawned before his eyes. He closed them, but that made no difference; he still saw the
trench. In imagination he began to measure its width and depth. Then he shook his head to rid
himself of the picture, and went out on to the balcony. His eyes turned instinctively to a
house by the city wall, to a corner of the patio the house and the latticed shutter of a window
just seen from the balcony.

He stepped back into the room with a feeling of nausea, and blowing out the candles sat down
alone, in the twilight, amongst the empty chairs. There were dark corners in the room; the
broadening light searched into them, and suddenly the air was tinged with warm gold. Somewhere
the sun had risen. In a little, Scrope heard a dropping sound of firing, and a few moments
afterwards the rattle of a volley. The battle was joined. Scrope saw the trench again yawn
up before his eyes. The Major was right. This morning, again, Lieutenant Scrope had the harder
part of it.

THE MAN OF WHEELS.

When Sir Charles Fosbrook was told by Mr. Pepys that Tangier had been surrendered to the Moors,
he asked at once after the fate of his gigantic mole; and when he was informed that his mole
had been, before the evacuation, so utterly blown to pieces that its scattered blocks made
the harbour impossible for anchorage, he forbade so much as the mention in his presence of
the name of Africa. But if he had done with Tangier, Tangier had not done with him, and five
years afterwards he became concerned in the most unexpected way with certain tragic consequences
of that desperate siege.

He received a letter from an acquaintance of whom he had long lost sight, a Mr. Mardale of
the Quarry House near Leamington, imploring him to give his opinion upon some new inventions.
The value of the inventions could be easily gauged; Mr. Mardale claimed to have invented a
wheel of perpetual rotation. Sir Charles, however, had his impulses of kindness. He knew Mr.
Mardale to be an old and gentle person, a little touched in the head perhaps, who with money
enough to surfeit every instinct of pleasure, had preferred to live a shy secluded life, busily
engaged either in the collection of curiosities or the invention of toy-like futile machines.
There was a girl too whom Sir Charles remembered, a weird elfin creature with extraordinary
black eyes and hair and a clear white face. Her one regret in those days had been that she
was not born a horse, and she had lived in the stables, in as horse like a fashion as was possible.
Her ankle indeed still must bear an unnecessary scar through the application of a fierce horse-liniment
to a sprain. No doubt, however, she had long since changed her ambitions. Sir Charles calculated
her age. Resilda Mardale must be twenty-five years old and a deuced fine woman into the bargain.
Sir Charles took a glance at his figure in his cheval-glass. He had reached middle-age to be
sure, but he had a leg that many a spindle-shanked youngster might envy, nor was there any
unbecoming protuberance at his waist. He wrote a letter accepting the invitation and a week
later in the dusk of a June evening, drove up the long avenue of trees to the terrace of the
Quarry House.

The house was a solid square mansion built upon the side of a hill, and the ground in front
of it fell away very quickly from the terrace to what Sir Charles imagined must be a pond,
for a light mist hung at the bottom. On the other side of the pond the ground rose again in
a steep hill. But Sir Charles had no opportunity at this moment to get any accurate knowledge
of the house and its surroundings. For apart from the darkness, it was close upon supper-time
and Miss Resilda Mardale must assuredly not be kept waiting. His valet subsequently declared
that Sir Charles had seldom been so particular in the choice of his coat and small-clothes;
and the supper-bell certainly rang out before he was satisfied with the set of his cravat.

He could not, however, consider his pains wasted when once he was set down opposite to Resilda.
She was taller than he had expected her to be, but he did not count height a fault so long
as there was grace to carry it off, and grace she had in plenty. Her face had gained in delicacy
and lost nothing of its brilliancy, or of its remarkable clearness of complexion. Her hair
too if it was less rebellious, and more neatly coiled, had retained its glory of profusion,
and her big black eyes, though to be sure they were grown a trifle sedate, no doubt could sparkle
as of old. Sir Charles set himself to make them sparkle. Old Mr. Mardale prattled of his inventions
to his heart's delight--he described the wheel, and also a flying machine and besides the flying
machine, an engine by which steam might be used to raise water to great altitudes. Sir Charles
was ready from time to time with a polite, if not always an appropriate comment, and for the
rest he paid compliments to Resilda. Still the eyes did not sparkle, indeed a pucker appeared
and deepened on her forehead. Sir Charles accordingly redoubled his gallantries, he was slyly
humorous about the horse-liniment, and thereupon came the remark which so surprised him and
was the beginning of his strange discoveries. For Resilda suddenly leaned towards him and said
frankly:

"I would much rather, Sir Charles, you told me something of your great mole at Tangier."

Sir Charles had reason for surprise. The world had long since forgotten his mole, if ever it
had been concerned in it. Yet here was a girl whose thoughts might be expected to run on youths
and ribands talking of it in a little village four miles from Leamington as though there were
no topic more universal. Sir Charles Fosbrook answered her gravely.

"I thought never to speak of Tangier and the mole again. I spent many years upon the devising
and construction of that great breakwater. It could have sheltered every ship of his Majesty's
navy. It was wife and children to me. My heart lay very close to it. I fancied indeed my heart
was disrupted with the disruption of the mole, and it has at all events, lain ever since as
heavy as King Charles' Chest."

"Yes, I can understand that," said Resilda.

Sir Charles had vowed never to speak of the matter again. But he had kept his vow for five
long years, and besides here was a girl of a remarkable beauty expressing sympathy and asking
for information. Sir Charles broke his vow and talked, and the girl helped him. A suspicion
that she might have primed herself with knowledge in view of his coming, vanished before the
flame of her enthusiasm. She knew the history of its building almost as well as he did himself,
and could even set him right in his dates. It was she who knew the exact day on which King
Charles' Chest, that great block of mortised stones, which formed as it were the keystone of
the breakwater, had been lowered into its place. Sir Charles abandoned all reserve, and talked
freely of his hopes and fears as the pier ran farther out and out into the currents of the
Straits, of his bitter disappointment when his labours were destroyed. He forgot his gallantries,
he showed himself the man he was. Neither he nor Resilda noticed a low rumble of thunder or
the beating of sudden rain upon the windows, so occupied were they with the theme of their
talk; and at last Sir Charles, leaning back in his chair, cried out with astonishment and delight.

"But how is it that my mole is so familiar a thing to you? Explain it if you please! Never
have I spent so agreeable an evening."

A momentary embarrassment seemed to follow upon his words. Resilda looked at her father who
chuckled and explained.

"Sir, an old soldier years ago came over the hill in front of the house and begged for alms.
He found my daughter on the terrace in a lucky moment for himself. He had all sorts of wonderful
stories of Tangier and the great mole which was then a building. Resilda was set on fire that
day, and though the King and the Parliament might shut their eyes to the sore straits of that
town and the gallantry of its defenders, no one was allowed to forget them in the Quarry House.
To tell the truth I sometimes envied the obliviousness of Parliament," and he laughed gently.
"So from the first my daughter was primed with the history of that siege, and lately we have
had further means of knowledge--" He began to speak warily and with embarrassment--"For two
years ago Resilda married an officer of The King's Battalion, Major Lashley."

"Here are two surprises," cried Sir Charles. "For in the first place, Madam, I had no thought
you were wed. Blame a bachelor's stupidity!" and he glanced at her left hand which lay upon
the table-cloth with the band of gold gleaming upon a finger. "In the second place I knew Major
Lashley very well, though it is news to me that he ever troubled his head with my mole. A very
gallant officer, who defended Charles Fort through many nights of great suspense, and cleft
his way back to Tangier when his ammunition was expended. I shall be very glad to shake the
Major once more by the hand."

At once Sir Charles was aware that he had uttered the most awkward and unsuitable remark. Resilda
Lashley, as he must now term her, actually flinched away from him and then sat with a vague
staring look of pain as though she had been shocked clean out of her wits. She recovered herself
in a moment, but she did not speak, neither had Sir Charles any words. He looked at her dress
which was white and had not so much as a black riband dangling anywhere about it.

But there were other events than death which could make the utterance of his wish a gaucherie.
Sir Charles prided himself upon his tact, particularly with a good-looking woman, and he was
therefore much abashed and confused. The only one who remained undisturbed was Mr. Mardale.
His mind was never for very long off his wheels, or his works of art. It was the turn of his
pictures now. He had picked up a genuine Rubens in Ghent, he declared. It was standing somewhere
in the great drawing-room on the carpet against the back of a chair, and Sir Charles must look
at it in the morning, if only it could be found. He had clean forgotten all about his daughter
it appeared. She, however, had a mind to clear the mystery up, and interrupting her father.

"It is right that you should know," she said simply, "Major Lashley disappeared six months ago."

"Disappeared!" exclaimed Sir Charles in spite of himself, and the astonishment in his voice
woke the old gentleman from his prattle.

"To be sure," said he apologetically, "I should have told you before of the sad business. Yes,
Sir, Major Lashley disappeared, utterly from this very house on the eleventh night of last
December, and though the country-side was scoured and every ragamuffin for miles round brought
to question, no trace of him has anywhere been discovered from that day to this."

An intuition slipped into Sir Charles Fosbrook's mind, and though he would have dismissed it
as entirely unwarrantable, persisted there. The thought of the steep slope of ground before
the house and the mist in the hollow between the two hills. The mist was undoubtedly the exhalation
from a pond. The pond might have reeds which might catch and gather a body. But the pond would
have been dragged. Still the thought of the pond remained while he expressed a vague hope that
the Major might by God's will yet be restored to them.

He had barely ended before a louder gust of rain than ordinary smote upon the windows and immediately
there followed a knocking upon the hall-door. The sound was violent, and it came with so opposite
a rapidity upon the heels of Fosbrook's words that it thrilled and startled him. There was
something very timely in the circumstances of night and storm and that premonitory clapping
at the door. Sir Charles looked towards the door in a glow of anticipation. He had time to
notice, however, how deeply Resilda herself was stirred; her left hand which had lain loose
upon the table-cloth was now tightly clenched, and she had a difficulty in breathing. The one
strange point in her conduct was that although she looked towards the door like Sir Charles
Fosbrook, there was more of suspense in the look than of the eagerness of welcome. The butler,
however, had no news of Major Lashley to announce. He merely presented the compliments of Mr.
Gibson Jerkley who had been caught in the storm near the Quarry House and ten miles from his
home. Mr. Jerkley prayed for supper and a dry suit of clothes.

"And a bed too," said Resilda, with a flush of colour in her cheeks, and begging Sir Charles'
permission she rose from the table. Sir Charles was disappointed by the mention of a strange
name. Mr. Mardale, however, to whom that loud knocking upon the door had been void of suggestion,
now became alert. He looked with a strange anxiety after his daughter, an anxiety which surprised
Fosbrook, to whom this man of wheels and little toys had seemed lacking in the natural affections.

"And a bed too," repeated Mr. Mardale doubtfully, "to be sure! To be sure!" And though he went
into the hall to welcome his visitor, it was not altogether without reluctance.

Mr. Gibson Jerkley was a man of about thirty years. He had a brown open personable countenance,
a pair of frank blue eyes, and the steady restful air of a man who has made his account with
himself, and who neither speaks to win praise nor is at pains to escape dislike. Sir Charles
Fosbrook was from the first taken with the man, though he spoke little with him for the moment.
For being tired with his long journey from London, he retired shortly to his room.

But however tired he was, Sir Charles found that it was quite impossible for him to sleep.
The cracking of the rain upon his windows, the groaning trees in the park, and the wail of
the wind among the chimneys and about the corners of the house were no doubt for something
in a Londoner's sleeplessness. But the mysterious disappearance of Major Lashley was at the
bottom of it. He thought again of the pond. He imagined a violent kidnapping and his fancies
went to work at devising motives. Some quarrel long ago in the crowded city of Tangier and
now brought to a tragical finish amongst the oaks and fields of England. Perhaps a Moor had
travelled over seas for his vengeance and found his way from village to village like that Baracen
lady of old times. And when he had come to this point of his reflections, he heard a light
rapping upon his door. He got out of bed and opened it. He saw Mr. Gibson Jerkley standing
on the threshold with a candle in one hand and a finger of the other at his lip.

"I saw alight beneath your door," said Jerkley, and Sir Charles made room for him to enter.
He closed the door cautiously, and setting his candle down upon a chest of drawers, said without
any hesitation:

"I have come, Sir, to ask for your advice. I do not wonder at your surprise, it is indeed a
strange sort of intrusion for a man to make upon whom you have never clapped your eyes before
this evening. But for one thing I fancy Mrs. Lashley wishes me to ask you for the favour. She
has said nothing definitely, in faith she could not as you will understand when you have heard
the story. But that I come with her approval I am very sure. For another, had she disapproved,
I should none the less have come of my own accord. Sir, though I know you very well by reputation,
I have had the honour of few words with you, but my life has taught me to trust boldly where
my eyes bid me trust. And the whole affair is so strange that one more strange act like this
intrusion of mine is quite of apiece. I ask you therefore to listen to me. The listening pledges
you to nothing, and at the worst, I can promise you, my story will while away a sleepless hour.
If when you have heard, you can give us your advice, I shall be very glad. For we are sunk
in such a quandary that a new point of view cannot but help us."

Sir Charles pointed to a chair and politely turned away to hide a yawn. For the young man's
lengthy exordium had made him very drowsy. He could very comfortably had fallen asleep at this
moment. But Gibson Jerkley began to speak, and in a short space of time Sir Charles was as
wide-awake as any house-breaker.

"Eight years ago," said he, "I came very often to the Quarry House, but I always rode homewards
discontented in the evening. Resilda at that time had a great ambition to be a boy. The sight
of any brown bare-legged lad gipsying down the hill with a song upon his lips, would set her
viciously kicking the toes of her satin slippers against the parapet of the terrace, and clamouring
at her sex. Now I was not of the same mind with Resilda."

"That I can well understand," said Sir Charles drily. "But, my young friend, I can remember
a time when Resilda desired of all things to be a horse. There was something hopeful because
more human in her wish to be a boy, had you only known."

Mr. Jerkley nodded gravely and continued:

"I was young enough to argue the point with her, which did me no good, and then to make matters
worse, the soldier from Tangier came over the hill, with his stories of Major Lashley--Captain
he was then."

"Major Lashley," exclaimed Sir Charles. "I did not hear the soldier was one of Major Lashley's
men!"

"But he was and thenceforward the world went very ill with me. Reports of battles, and sorties
came home at rare intervals. She was the first to read of them. Major Lashley's name was more
than once mentioned. We country gentlemen who stayed at home and looked after our farms and
our tenants, having no experience of war, suffered greatly in the comparison. So at the last
I ordered my affairs for a long voyage, and without taking leave of any but my nearest neighbours
and friends, I slipped off one evening to the wars."

"You did not wish your friends at the Quarry House good-bye?" said Fosbrook.

"No. It might have seemed that I was making claims, and, after all, one has one's pride. I
would never, I think, ask a woman to wait for me. But she heard of course after I had gone
and--I am speaking frankly--I believe the news woke the woman in her. At all events there was
little talk after of Tangier at the Quarry House."

Mr. Jerkley related his subsequent history. He had sailed at his own charges to Africa; he
had enlisted as a gentleman volunteer in The King's Battalion; he had served under Major Lashley
in the Charles Fort where he was in charge of the great speaking-trumpet by which the force
received its orders from the Lieutenant-Governor in Tangier Castle; he took part in the desperate
attempt to cut a way back through the Moorish army into the town. In that fight he was wounded
and left behind for dead.

"A year later peace was made. Tangier was evacuated, Major Lashley returned to England. Now
the Major and I despite the difference in rank had been friends. I had spoken to him of Miss
Mardale's admiration, and as chance would have it, he came to Leamington to take the waters."

"Chance?" said Sir Charles drily.

"Well it may have been intention," said Jerkley. "There was no reason in the world why he should
not seek her out. She was not promised to me, and very likely I had spoken of her with enthusiasm.
For a long time she would not consent to listen to him. He was, however, no less persistent--he
pleaded his suit for three years. I was dead you understand, and what man worth a pinch of
salt would wish a woman to waste her gift of life in so sterile a fidelity.... You follow me?
At the end of three years Resilda yielded to his pleadings, and the persuasions of her friends.
For Major Lashley quickly made himself a position in the country. They were married, Major
Lashley was not a rich man, it was decided that they should both live at the Quarry House."

"And what had Mr. Mardale to say to it?" asked Fosbrook.

"Oh, Sir," said Gibson Jerkley with a laugh. "Mr. Mardale is a man of wheels, and little steel
springs. Let him sit at his work-table in that crowded drawing-room on the first floor, without
interruption, and he will be very well content, I can assure you.... Hush!" and he suddenly
raised his hand. In the silence which followed, they both distinctly heard the sound of some
one stirring in the house. Mr. Jerkley went to the door and opened it. The door gave on to
the passage which was shut off at its far end by another door from the square tulip-wood landing,
at the head of the stairs. He came back into the bedroom.

"There is a light on the other side of the passage-door," said he. "But I have no doubt it
is Mr. Mardale going to his bed. He sits late at his work-table."

Sir Charles brought him back to his story.

"Meanwhile you were counted for dead, but actually you were taken prisoner. There is one thing
which I do not understand. When peace was concluded the prisoners were freed and an officer
was sent up into Morocco to secure their release."

"There were many oversights like mine, I have no doubt. The Moors were reluctant enough to
produce their captives. We who were supposed to be dead were not particularly looked for. I
have no doubt there is many a poor English soldier sweating out his soul in the uplands of
that country to this day. I escaped two years ago, just about the time, in fact, when Miss
Resilda Mardale became Mrs. Lashley. I crept down over the hillside behind Tangier one dark
evening, and lay all night beneath a bush of tamarisks dreaming the Moors were still about
me. But an inexplicable silence reigned and nowhere was the darkness spotted by the flame of
any camp-fire. In the morning I looked down to Tangier. The first thing which I noticed was
your broken stump of mole, the second that nowhere upon the ring of broken wall could be seen
the flash of a red coat or the glitter of a musket-barrel. I came down into Tangier, I had
no money and no friends. I got away in a felucca to Spain. From Spain I worked my passage to
England. I came home nine months ago. And here is the trouble. Three months after I returned
Major Lashley disappeared. You understand?"

"Oh," cried Sir Charles, and he jumped in his chair. "I understand indeed. Suspicion settled
upon you," and as it ever will upon the least provocation suspicion passed for a moment into
Fosbrook's brain. He was heartily ashamed of it when he looked into Jerkley's face. It would
need, assuredly, a criminal of an uncommon astuteness to come at this hour with this story.
Mr. Jerkley was not that criminal.

"Yes," he answered simply, "I am looked at askance, devil a doubt of it. I would not care a
snap of the fingers were I alone in the matter; but there is Mrs. Lashley ... she is neither
wife nor widow ... and," he took a step across the room and said quickly--and were she known
for a widow, there is still the suspicion upon me like a great iron door between us."

"Can you help us, Sir Charles! Can you see light?"

"You must tell me the details of the Major's disappearance," said Sir Charles, and the following
details were given.

On the eleventh of December and at ten o'clock of the evening Major Lashley left the house
to visit the stables which were situated in the Park and at the distance of a quarter of a
mile from the house. A favourite mare, which he had hunted the day before, had gone lame, and
all day Major Lashley had shown some anxiety; so that there was a natural reason why he should
have gone out at the last moment before retiring to bed. Mrs. Lashley went up to her room at
the same time, indeed with so exact a correspondence of movement that as she reached the polished
tulip-wood landing at the top of the stairs, she heard the front door latch as her husband
drew it to behind him. That was the last she heard of him.

"She woke up suddenly," said Jerkley, "in the middle of the night, and found that her husband
was not at her side. She waited for a little and then rose from her bed. She drew the window-curtains
aside and by the glimmering light which came into the room, was able to read the dial of her
watch. It was seven minutes past three of the morning. She immediately lighted her candle and
went to rouse her father. Her door opened upon the landing, it is the first door upon the left
hand side as you mount the stairs; the big drawing-room opens on to the landing too, but faces
the stairs. Mrs. Lashley at once went to that room, knowing how late Mr. Mardale is used to
sit over his inventions, and as she expected, found him there. A search was at once arranged;
every servant in the house was at once impressed, and in the morning every servant on the estate.
Major Lashley had left the stable at a quarter past ten. He has been seen by no one since."

Sir Charles reflected upon this story.

"There is a pond in front of the house," said he.

"It was dragged in the morning," replied Jerkley.

Sir Charles made various inquiries and received the most unsatisfactory answers for his purpose.
Major Lashley had been a favourite alike at Tangier, and in the country. He had a winning trick
of a smile, which made friends for him even among his country's enemies. Mr. Jerkley could
not think of a man who had wished him ill.

"Well, I will think the matter over," said Sir Charles, who had not an idea in his head, and
he held the door open for Mr. Jerkley. Both men stood upon the threshold, looked down the passage
and then looked at one another.

"It is strange," said Jerkley.

"The light has been a long while burning on the landing," said Sir Charles. They walked on
tiptoe down the passage to the door beneath which one bright bar of light stretched across
the floor. Jerkley opened the door and looked through; Sir Charles who was the taller man looked
over Jerkley's head and never were two men more surprised. In the embrasure of that door to
the left of the staircase, the door behind which Resilda Lashley slept, old Mr. Mardale reclined,
with his back propped against the door-post. He had fallen asleep at his post, and a lighted
candle half-burnt flamed at his side. The reason of his presence then was clear to them both.

"A morbid fancy!" he said in a whisper, but with a considerable anger in his voice. "Such a
fancy as comes only to a man who has lost his judgment through much loneliness. See, he sits
like any negro outside an Eastern harem! Sir, I am shamed by him."

"You have reason I take the liberty to say," said Sir Charles absently, and he went back to
his room puzzling over what he had seen, and over what he could neither see nor understand.
The desire for sleep was altogether gone from him. He opened his window and leaned out. The
rain had ceased, but the branches still dripped and the air was of an incomparable sweetness.
Blackbirds and thrushes on the lawns, and in the thicket-depths were singing as though their
lives hung upon the full fresh utterance of each note. A clear pure light was diffused across
the world. Fosbrook went back to his old idea of some vengeful pursuit sprung from a wrong
done long ago in Tangier. The picture of Major Lashley struck with terror as he got news of
his pursuers, and slinking off into the darkness. Even now, somewhere or another, on the uplands
or the plains of England, he might be rising from beneath a hedge to shake the rain from his
besmeared clothes, and start off afresh on another day's aimless flight. The notion caught
his imagination and comforted him to sleep. But in the morning he woke to recognise its unreality.
The unreality became yet more vivid to him at the breakfast-table, when he sat with two pairs
of young eyes turning again and again trustfully towards him. The very reliance which the man
and woman so clearly placed in him spurred him. Since they looked to him to clear up the mystery,
why he must do it, and there was an end of the matter.

He was none the less glad, however, when Mr. Jerkley announced his intention of returning home.
There would at all events be one pair of eyes the less. He strolled with Mr. Jerkley on the
terrace after breakfast with a deep air of cogitation, the better to avoid questions. Gibson
Jerkley, however, was himself in a ruminative mood. He stopped, and gazing across the valley
to the riband of road descending the hill:

"Down that road the soldier came," said he, "whose stories brought about all this misfortune."

"And very likely down that road will come the bearer of news to make an end of it," rejoined
Fosbrook sententiously. Mr. Jerkley looked at him with a sudden upspringing of hope, and Sir
Charles nodded with ineffable mystery, never guessing how these lightly spoken words were to
return to his mind with the strength of a fulfilled prophecy.

As he nodded, however, he turned about towards the house, and a certain disfigurement struck
upon his eyes. Two windows on the first floor were entirely bricked up, and as the house was
square with level tiers of windows, they gave to it an unsightly look. Sir Charles inquired
of his companion if he could account for them.

"To be sure," said Jerkley, with the inattention of a man diverted from serious thought to
an unimportant topic. "They are the windows of the room in which Mrs. Mardale died a quarter
of a century ago. Mr. Mardale locked the door as soon as his wife was taken from it to the
church, and the next day he had the windows blocked. No one but he has entered the room during
all these years, the key has never left his person. It must be the ruin of a room by now. You
can imagine it, the dust gathering, the curtains rotting, in the darkness and at times the
old man sitting there with his head running on days long since dead. But you know Mr. Mardale,
he is not as other men."

Sir Charles swung round alertly to his companion. To him at all events the topic was not an
indifferent one.

"Yet you say, you believe that he is void of the natural affections. Last night we saw a proof,
a crazy proof if you will, but none the less a proof of his devotion to his daughter. To-day
you give me as sure a one of his devotion to his dead wife," and almost before he had finished,
Mr. Mardale was calling to him from the steps of the house.

He spent all that morning in the great drawing-room on the first floor. It was a room of rich
furniture, grown dingy with dust and inattention, and crowded from end to end with tables and
chairs and sofas, on which were heaped in a confused medley, pictures, statues of marble, fans
and buckles from Spain, queer barbaric ornaments, ivory carvings from the Chinese. Sir Charles
could hardly make his way to the little cleared space by the window, where Mr. Mardale worked,
without brushing some irreplaceable treasure to the floor. Once there he was fettered for the
morning. Mr. Mardale with all the undisciplined enthusiasm of an amateur, jumping from this
invention to that, beaming over his spectacles. Sir Charles listened with here and there a
word of advice, or of sympathy with the labour of creation. But his thoughts were busy elsewhere,
he was pondering over his discovery of the morning, over the sight which he and Jerkley had
seen last night, he was accustoming himself to regard the old man in a strange new light, as
an over-careful father and a sorely-stricken husband. Meanwhile he sat over against the window
which was in the side of the house, and since the house was built upon a slope of hill, although
the window was on the first floor, a broad terrace of grass stretched away from it to a circle
of gravel ornamented with statues. On this terrace he saw Mrs. Lashley, and reflected uncomfortably
that he must meet her at dinner and again sustain the inquiry of her eyes.

He avoided actual questions, however, and as soon as dinner was over, with a meaning look at
the girl to assure her that he was busy with her business, he retired to the library. Then
he sat himself down to think the matter over restfully. But the room, walled with books upon
its three sides, fronted the Southwest on its fourth, and as the afternoon advanced, the hot
June sun streamed farther and farther into the room. Sir Charles moved his chair back, and
again back, and again, until at last it was pushed into the one cool dark corner of the room.
Then Sir Charles closed his wearied eyes the better to think. But he had slept little during
the last night, and when he opened them again, it was with a guilty start. He rubbed his eyes,
then he reached a hand down quickly at his side, and lifted a book out of the lowest shelf
in the corner. The book was a volume of sermons. Sir Charles replaced it, and again dipped
his hand into the lucky-bag. He drew out a tome of Mr. Hobbes' philosophy; Sir Charles was
not in the mood for Hobbes; he tried again. On this third occasion he found something very
much more to his taste, namely the second Volume of Anthony Hamilton's Memoirs of Count Grammont.
This he laid upon his knee, and began glancing through the pages while he speculated upon the
mystery of the Major's disappearance. His thoughts, however, lagged in a now well-worn circle,
they begot nothing new in the way of a suggestion. On the other hand the book was quite new
to him. He became less and less interested in his thoughts, more and more absorbed in the Memoirs.
There were passages marked with a pencil-line in the margin, and marked, thought Sir Charles,
by a discriminating judge. He began to look only for the marked passages, being sure that thus
he would most easily come upon the raciest anecdotes. He read the story of the Count's pursuit
by the brother of the lady he was affianced to. The brother caught up the Count when he was
nearing Dover to return to France. "You have forgotten something," said the brother. "So I
have," replied Grammont. "I have forgotten to marry your sister." Sir Charles chuckled and
turned over the pages. There was an account of how the reprobate hero rode seventy miles into
the country to keep a tryst with an inamorata and waited all night for no purpose in pouring
rain by the Park gate. Sir Charles laughed aloud. He turned over more pages, and to his surprise
came across, amongst the marked passages, a quite unentertaining anecdote of how Grammont lost
a fine new suit of clothes, ordered for a masquerade at White Hall. Sir Charles read the story
again, wondering why on earth this passage had been marked; and suddenly he was standing by
the window, holding the book to the light in a quiver of excitement. Underneath certain letters
in the words of this marked passage he had noticed dents in the paper, as though by the pressure
of a pencil point. Now that he stood by the light, he made sure of the dents, and he saw also
by the roughness of the paper about them, that the pencil-marks had been carefully erased.
He read these underlined letters together--they made a word, two words--a sentence, and the
sentence was an assignation.

Sir Charles could not remember that the critical moment in any of his great engineering undertakings,
had ever caused him such a flutter of excitement, such a pulsing in his temples, such a catching
of his breath--no, not even the lowering of Charles' Chest into the Waters of Tangier harbour.
Everything at once became exaggerated out of its proportions, the silence of the house seemed
potential and expectant, the shadows in the room now that the sun was low had their message,
he felt a queer chill run down his spine like ice, he shivered. Then he hurried to the door,
locked it and sat down to a more careful study. And as he read, there came out before his eyes
a story--a story told as it were in telegrams, a story of passion, of secret meetings, of gratitude
for favours.

Who was the discriminating judge who had marked these passages and underlined these letters?
The book was newly published, it was in the Quarry House, and there were three occupants of
the Quarry House. Was it Mr. Mardale? The mere question raised a laugh. Resilda? Never. Major
Lashley then? If not Major Lashley, who else?

It flashed into his mind that here in this book he might hold the history of the Major's long
courtship of Resilda. But he dismissed the notion contemptuously. Gibson Jerkley had told him
of that courtship, and of the girl's reluctance to respond to it. Besides Resilda was never
the woman in this story. Perhaps the first volume might augment it and give the clue to the
woman's identity. Sir Charles hunted desperately through the shelves. Nowhere was the first
volume to be found. He wasted half-an-hour before he understood why. Of course the other volume
would be in the woman's keeping, and how in the world to discover her?

Things moved very quickly with Sir Charles that afternoon. He had shut up the volume and laid
it on the table, the while he climbed up and down the library steps. From the top of the steps
he glanced about the room in a despairing way, and his eyes lit upon the table. For the first
time he remarked the binding which was of a brown leather. But all the books on the shelves
were bound uniformly in marble boards with a red backing. He sprang down from the steps with
the vigour of a boy, and seizing the book looked in the fly leaf for a name. There was a name,
the name of a bookseller in Leamington, and as he closed the book again, some one rapped upon
the door. Sir Charles opened it and saw Mr. Mardale. He gave the old gentleman no time to speak.

"Mr. Mardale," said he, "I am a man of plethoric habits, and must needs take exercise. Can
you lend me a horse?"

Mr. Mardale was disappointed as his manner showed. He had perhaps at that very moment hit upon
a new and most revolutionary invention. But his manners hindered him from showing more than
a trace of the disappointment, and Sir Charles rode out to the bookseller at Leamington, with
the volume beneath his coat.

"Can you show me the companion to this?" said he, dumping it down upon the counter. The bookseller
seized upon the volume and fondled it.

"It is not fair," he cried. "In any other affair but books, it would be called at once sheer
dishonesty. Here have been my subscribers clamouring for the Memoirs for six months and more."

"You hire out your books!" cried Sir Charles.

"Give would be the properer word," grumbled the man.

Sir Charles humbly apologised.

"It was the purest oversight," said he, "and I will gladly pay double. But I need the first
volume."

"The first volume, Sir," replied the bookseller in a mollified voice, "is in the like case
with the second. There has been an oversight."

"But who has it?"

The bookseller was with difficulty persuaded to search his list. He kept his papers in the
greatest disorder, so that it was no wonder people kept his volumes until they forgot them.
But in the end he found his list.

"Mrs. Ripley," he read out, "Mrs. Ripley of Burley Wood."

"And where is Burley Wood?" asked Sir Charles.

"It is a village, Sir, six miles from Leamington," replied the bookseller, and he gave some
rough directions as to the road.

Sir Charles mounted his horse and cantered down the Parade. The sun was setting; he would for
a something miss his supper; but he meant to see Burley Wood that day, and he would have just
daylight enough for his purpose. As he entered the village, he caught up a labourer returning
from the fields. Sir Charles drew rein beside him.

"Will you tell me, if you please, where Mrs. Ripley lives?"

The man looked up and grinned.

"In the churchyard," said he.

"Do you mean she is dead?"

"No less."

"When did she die?"

"Well, it may have been a month or two ago, or it may have been more."

"Show me her grave and there's a silver shilling in your pocket."

The labourer led Fosbrook to a corner of the churchyard. Then upon a head-stone he read that
Mary Ripley aged twenty-nine had died on December 7th. December the 7th thought Sir Charles,
five days before Major Lashley died. Then he turned quickly to the labourer.

"Can you tell me when Mrs. Ripley was buried?"

"I can find out for another shilling."

"You shall have it, man."

The labourer hurried off, discovered the sexton, and came back. But instead of the civil gentleman
he had left, he found now a man with a face of horror, and eyes that had seen appalling things.
Sir Charles had remained in the churchyard by the grave, he had looked about him from one to
the other of the mounds of turf, his imagination already stimulated had been quickened by what
he had seen; he stood with the face of a Medusa.

"She was buried when?" he asked.

"On December the 11th," replied the labourer.

Sir Charles showed no surprise. He stood very still for a moment, then he gave the man his
two shillings, and walked to the gate where his horse was tied. Then he inquired the nearest
way to the Quarry House, and he was pointed out a bridle-path running across fields to a hill.
As he mounted he asked another question.

"Mr. Ripley is alive?"

"Yes."

"It must be Mr. Ripley," Sir Charles assured himself, as he rode through the dusk of the evening.
"It must be ... It must be ..." until the words in his mind became a meaningless echo of his
horse's hoofs. He rode up the hill, left the bridle-path for the road, and suddenly, and long
before he had expected, he saw beneath him the red square of the Quarry House and the smoke
from its chimneys. He was on that very road up which he and Gibson Jerkley had looked that
morning. Down that road, he had said, would come the man who knew how Major Lashley had disappeared,
and within twelve hours down that road the man was coming. "But it must be Mr. Ripley," he
said to himself.

None the less he took occasion at supper to speak of his ride.

"I rode by Leamington to Burley Wood. I went into the churchyard." Then he stopped, but as
though the truth was meant to come to light, Resilda helped him out.

"I had a dear friend buried there not so long ago," she said. "Father, you remember Mrs. Ripley."

"I saw her grave this afternoon," said Fosbrook, with his eyes upon Mr. Mardale. It might have
been a mere accident, it was in any case a trifling thing, the mere shaking of a hand, the
spilling of a spoonful of salt upon the table, but trifling things have their suggestions.
He remembered that Resilda, when she had waked up on the night of December the 11th to find
herself alone, had sought out her father, who was still up, and at work in the big drawing-room.
He remembered too that the window of that room gave on to a terrace of grass. A man might go
out by that window--aye and return without a soul but himself being the wiser.

Of course it was all guess work and inference, and besides, it must be Mr. Ripley. Mr. Ripley
might as easily have discovered the secret of the Memoirs as himself--or anyone else. Mr. Ripley
would have justification for anger and indeed for more--yes for what men who are not affected
are used to call a crime ... Sir Charles abruptly stopped his reasoning, seeing that it was
prompted by a defence of Mr. Mardale. He made his escape from his hosts as soon as he decently
could and retired to his room. He sat down in his room and thought, and he thought to some
purpose. He blew out his candle, and stole down the stairs into the hall. He had met no one.
From the hall he went to the library-door and opened it--ever so gently. The room was quite
dark. Sir Charles felt his way across it to his chair in the corner. He sat down in the darkness
and waited. After a time inconceivably long, after every board in the house had cracked a million
times, he heard distinctly a light shuffling step in the passage, and after that the latch
of the door release itself from the socket. He heard nothing more, for a little, he could only
guess that the door was being silently opened by some one who carried no candle. Then the shuffling
footsteps began to move gently across the room, towards him, towards the corner where he was
sitting. Sir Charles had had no doubt but that they would, not a single doubt, but none the
less as he sat there in the dark, he felt the hair rising on his scalp, and all his body thrill.
Then a hand groped and touched him. A cry rang out, but it was Sir Charles who uttered it.
A voice answered quietly:

"You had fallen asleep. I regret to have waked you."

"I was not asleep, Mr. Mardale."

There was a pause and Mr. Mardale continued.

"I cannot sleep to-night, I came for a book."

"I know. For the book I took back to Leamington to-day, before I went to visit Mrs. Ripley's
grave."

There was a yet longer pause before Mr. Mardale spoke again.

"Stay then!" he said in the same gentle voice. "I will fetch a light." He shuffled out of the
room, and to Sir Charles it seemed again an inconceivably long time before he returned. He
came back with a single candle, which he placed upon the table, a little star of light, showing
the faces of the two men shadowy and dim. He closed the door carefully, and coming back, said
simply:

"You know."

"Yes."

"How did you find out?"

"I saw the grave. I noticed the remarkable height of the mound. I guessed."

"Yes," said Mr. Mardale, and in a low voice he explained. "I found the book here one day, that
he left by accident. On December 11th Mrs. Ripley was buried, and that night he left the house--for
the stables, yes, but he did not return from the stables. It seemed quite clear to me where
he would be that night. People hereabouts take me for a man crazed and daft, I know that very
well, but I know something of passion, Sir Charles. I have had my griefs to bear. Oh, I knew
where he would be. I followed over the hill down to the churchyard of Burley Wood. I had no
thought of what I should do. I carried a stick in my hand, I had no thought of using it. But
I found him lying full-length upon the grave with his lips pressed to the earth of it, whispering
to her who lay beneath him.... I called to him to stand up and he did. I bade him, if he dared,
repeat the words he had used to my face, to me, the father of the girl he had married, and
he did--triumphantly, recklessly. I struck at him with the knob of my stick, the knob was heavy,
I struck with all my might, the blow fell upon his forehead. The spade was lying on the ground
beside the grave. I buried him with her. Now what will you do?"

"Nothing," said Sir Charles.

"But Mr. Jerkley asked you to help him."

"I shall tell a lie."

"My friend, there is no need," said the old man with his gentle smile. "When I went out for
this candle I ..." Sir Charles broke in upon him in a whirl of horror.

"No. Don't say it! You did not!"

"I did," replied Mr. Mardale. "The poison is a kindly one. I shall be dead before morning.
I shall sleep my way to death. I do not mind, for I fear that, after all, my inventions are
of little worth. I have left a confession on my writing-desk. There is no reason--is there?--why
he and she should be kept apart?"

It was not a question which Sir Charles could discuss. He said nothing, and was again left
alone in the darkness, listening to the shuffling footsteps of Mr. Mardale as, for the last
time, he mounted the stairs.

MR. MITCHELBOURNE'S LAST ESCAPADE.

It was in the kitchen of the inn at Framlingham that Mr. Mitchelbourne came across the man
who was afraid, and during the Christmas week of the year 1681. Lewis Mitchelbourne was young
in those days, and esteemed as a gentleman of refinement and sensibility, with a queer taste
for escapades, pardonable by reason of his youth. It was his pride to bear his part in the
graceful tactics of a minuet, while a saddled horse waited for him at the door. He delighted
to vanish of a sudden from the lighted circle of his friends into the byways where none knew
him, or held him of account, not that it was all vanity with Mitchelbourne though no doubt
the knowledge that his associates in London Town were speculating upon his whereabouts tickled
him pleasurably through many a solitary day. But he was possessed both of courage and resource,
qualities for which he found too infrequent an exercise in his ordinary life; and so he felt
it good to be free for awhile, not from the restraints but from the safeguards, with which
his social circumstances surrounded him. He had his spice of philosophy too, and discovered
that these sharp contrasts,--luxury and hardship, treading hard upon each other and the new
strange people with whom he fell in, kept fresh his zest of life.

Thus it happened that at a time when families were gathering cheerily each about a single fireside,
Mr. Mitchelbourne was riding alone through the muddy and desolate lanes of Suffolk. The winter
was not seasonable; men were not tempted out of doors. There was neither briskness nor sunlight
in the air, and there was no snow upon the ground. It was a December of dripping branches,
and mists and steady pouring rains, with a raw sluggish cold, which crept into one's marrow.

The man who was afraid, a large, corpulent man, of a loose and heavy build, with a flaccid
face and bright little inexpressive eyes like a bird's, sat on a bench within the glow of the fire.

"You travel far to-night?" he asked nervously, shuffling his feet.

"To-night!" exclaimed Mitchelbourne as he stood with his legs apart taking the comfortable
warmth into his bones. "No further than from this fire to my bed," and he listened with enjoyment
to the rain which cracked upon the window like a shower of gravel flung by some mischievous
urchin. He was not suffered to listen long, for the corpulent man began again.

"I am an observer, sir. I pride myself upon it, but I have so much humility as to wish to put
my observations to the test of fact. Now, from your carriage, I should judge you to serve His
Majesty."

"A civilian may be straight. There is no law against it," returned Mitchelbourne, and he perceived
that the ambiguity of his reply threw his questioner into a great alarm. He was at once interested.
Here, it seemed, was one of those encounters which were the spice of his journeyings.

"You will pardon me," continued the stranger with a great assumption of heartiness, "but I
am curious, sir, curious as Socrates, though I thank God I am no heathen. Here is Christmas,
when a sensible gentleman, as upon my word I take you to be, sits to his table and drinks more
than is good for him in honour of the season. Yet here are you upon the roads to Suffolk which
have nothing to recommend them. I wonder at it, sir."

"You may do that," replied Mitchelbourne, "though to be sure, there are two of us in the like
case."

"Oh, as for me," said his companion shrugging his shoulders, "I am on my way to be married.
My name is Lance," and he blurted it out with a suddenness as though to catch Mitchelbourne
off his guard. Mitchelbourne bowed politely.

"And my name is Mitchelbourne, and I travel for my pleasure, though my pleasure is mere gipsying,
and has nothing to do with marriage. I take comfort from thinking that I have no friend from
one rim of this country to the other, and that my closest intimates have not an inkling of
my whereabouts."

Mr. Lance received the explanation with undisguised suspicion, and at supper, which the two
men took together, he would be forever laying traps. Now he slipped some outlandish name or
oath unexpectedly into his talk, and watched with a forward bend of his body to mark whether
the word struck home; or again he mentioned some person with whom Mitchelbourne was quite unfamiliar.
At length, however, he seemed satisfied, and drawing up his chair to the fire, he showed himself
at once in his true character, a loud and gusty boaster.

"An exchange of sentiments, Mr. Mitchelbourne, with a chance acquaintance over a pipe and a
glass--upon my word I think you are in the right of it, and there's no pleasanter way of passing
an evening. I could tell you stories, sir; I served the King in his wars, but I scorn a braggart,
and all these glories are over. I am now a man of peace, and, as I told you, on my way to be
married. Am I wise? I do not know, but I sometimes think it preposterous that a man who has
been here and there about the world, and could, if he were so meanly-minded, tell a tale or
so of success in gallantry, should hamper himself with connubial fetters. But a man must settle,
to be sure, and since the lady is young, and not wanting in looks or breeding or station, as
I am told--"

"As you are told?" interrupted Mitchelbourne.

"Yes, for I have never seen her. No, not so much as her miniature. Nor have I seen her mother
either, or any of the family, except the father, from whom I carry letters to introduce me.
She lives in a house called 'The Porch' some miles from here. There is another house hard by
to it, I understand, which has long stood empty and I have a mind to buy it. I bring a fortune,
the lady a standing in the county."

"And what has the lady to say to it?" asked Mitchelbourne.

"The lady!" replied Lance with a stare. "Nothing but what is dutiful, I'll be bound. The father
is under obligations to me." He stopped suddenly, and Mitchelbourne, looking up, saw that his
mouth had fallen. He sat with his eyes starting from his head and a face grey as lead, an image
of panic pitiful to behold. Mitchelbourne spoke but got no answer. It seemed Lance could not
answer--he was so arrested by a paralysis of terror. He sat staring straight in front of him,
and it seemed at the mantelpiece which was just on a level with his eyes. The mantelpiece,
however, had nothing to distinguish it from a score of others. Its counterpart might be found
to this day in the parlour of any inn. A couple of china figures disfigured it, to be sure,
but Mitchelbourne could not bring himself to believe that even their barbaric crudity had power
to produce so visible a discomposure. He inclined to the notion that his companion was struck
by a physical disease, perhaps some recrudescence of a malady contracted in those foreign lands
of which he vaguely spoke.

"Sir, you are ill," said Mitchelbourne. "I will have a doctor, if there is one hereabouts to
be found, brought to your relief." He sprang up as he spoke, and that action of his roused
Lance out of his paralysis. "Have a care," he cried almost in a shriek, "Do not move! For pity,
sir, do not move," and he in his turn rose from his chair. He rose trembling, and swept the
dust off a corner of the mantelpiece into the palm of his hand. Then he held his palm to the lamp.

"Have you seen the like of this before?" he asked in a low shaking voice.

Mitchelbourne looked over Lance's shoulder. The dust was in reality a very fine grain of a
greenish tinge.

"Never!" said Mitchelbourne.

"No, nor I," said Lance, with a sudden cunning look at his companion, and opening his fingers,
as he let the grain run between them. But he could not remove as easily from Mitchelbourne's
memories that picture he had shown him of a shaking and a shaken man. Mitchelbourne went to
bed divided in his feelings between pity for the lady Lance was to marry, and curiosity as
to Lance's apprehensions. He lay awake for a long time speculating upon that mysterious green
seed which could produce so extraordinary a panic, and in the morning his curiosity predominated.
Since, therefore, he had no particular destination he was easily persuaded to ride to Saxmundham
with Mr. Lance, who, for his part, was most earnest for a companion. On the journey Lance gave
further evidence of his fears. He had a trick of looking backwards whenever they came to a
corner of the road--an habitual trick, it seemed, acquired by a continued condition of fear.
When they stopped at midday to eat at an ordinary, he inspected the guests through the chink
at the hinges of the door before he would enter the room; and this, too, he did as though it
had long been natural to him. He kept a bridle in his mouth, however; that little pile of grain
upon the mantelshelf had somehow warned him into reticence, so that Mitchelbourne, had he not
been addicted to his tobacco, would have learnt no more of the business and would have escaped
the extraordinary peril which he was subsequently called upon to face.

But he was addicted to his tobacco, and no sooner had he finished his supper that night at
Saxmundham than he called for a pipe. The maidservant fetched a handful from a cupboard and
spread them upon the table, and amongst them was one plainly of Barbary manufacture. It had
a straight wooden stem painted with hieroglyphics in red and green and a small reddish bowl
of baked earth. Nine men out of ten would no doubt have overlooked it, but Mitchelbourne was
the tenth man. His fancies were quick to kindle, and taking up the pipe he said in a musing voice:

"Now, how in the world comes a Barbary pipe to travel so far over seas and herd in the end
with common clays in a little Suffolk village?"

He heard behind him the grating of a chair violently pushed back. The pipe seemingly made its
appeal to Mr. Lance also.

"Has it been smoked?" he asked in a grave low voice.

"The inside of the bowl is stained," said Mitchelbourne.

Mitchelbourne had been inclined to believe that he had seen last evening the extremity of fear
expressed in a man's face: he had now to admit that he had been wrong. Mr. Lance's terror was
a Circe to him and sunk him into something grotesque and inhuman; he ran once or twice in a
little tripping, silly run backwards and forwards like an animal trapped and out of its wits;
and his face had the look of a man suffering from a nausea; so that Mitchelbourne, seeing him,
was ashamed and hurt for their common nature.

"I must go," said Lance babbling his words. "I cannot stay. I must go."

"To-night?" exclaimed Mitchelbourne. "Six yards from the door you will be soaked!"

"Then there will be the fewer men abroad. I cannot sleep here! No, though it rained pistols
and bullets I must go." He went into the passage, and calling his host secretly asked for his
score. Mitchelbourne made a further effort to detain him.

"Make an inquiry of the landlord first. It may be a mere shadow that frightens you."

"Not a word, not a question," Lance implored. The mere suggestion increased a panic which seemed
incapable of increase. "And for the shadow, why, that's true. The pipe's the shadow, and the
shadow frightens me. A shadow! Yes! A shadow is a horrible, threatning thing! Show me a shadow
cast by nothing and I am with you. But you might as easily hold that this Barbary pipe floated
hither across the seas of its own will. No! 'Ware shadows, I say." And so he continued harping
on the word, till the landlord fetched in the bill.

The landlord had his dissuasions too, but they availed not a jot more than Mr. Mitchelbourne's.

"The road is as black as a pauper's coffin," said he, "and damnable with ruts."

"So much the better," said Lance.

"There is no house where you can sleep nearer than Glemham, and no man would sleep there could
he kennel elsewhere."

"So much the better," said Lance. "Besides, I am expected to-morrow evening at 'The Porch'
and Glemham is on the way." He paid his bill, slipped over to the stables and lent a hand to
the saddling of his horse. Mitchelbourne, though for once in his life he regretted the precipitancy
with which he welcomed strangers, was still sufficiently provoked to see the business to its
end. His imagination was seized by the thought of this fat and vulgar person fleeing in terror
through English lanes from a Barbary Moor. He had now a conjecture in his mind as to the nature
of that greenish seed. He accordingly rode out with Lance toward Glemham.

It was a night of extraordinary blackness; you could not distinguish a hedge until the twigs
stung across your face; the road was narrow, great tree-trunks with bulging roots lined it,
at times it was very steep--and, besides and beyond every other discomfort, there was the rain.
It fell pitilessly straight over the face of the country with a continuous roar as though the
earth was a hollow drum. Both travellers were drenched to the skin before they were free of
Saxmundham, and one of them, when after midnight they stumbled into the poor tumble-down parody
of a tavern at Glemham, was in an extreme exhaustion. It was no more than an ague, said Lance,
from which he periodically suffered, but the two men slept in the same bare room, and towards
morning Mitchelbourne was awakened from a deep slumber by an unfamiliar voice talking at an
incredible speed through the darkness in an uncouth tongue. He started up upon his elbow; the
voice came from Lance's bed. He struck a light. Lance was in a high fever, which increased
as the morning grew.

Now, whether he had the sickness latent within him when he came from Barbary, or whether his
anxieties and corpulent habit made him an easy victim to disease, neither the doctor nor any
one else could determine. But at twelve o'clock that day Lance was seized with an attack of
cholera and by three in the afternoon he was dead. The suddenness of the catastrophe shocked
Mr. Mitchelbourne inexpressibly. He stood gazing at the still features of the man whom fear
had, during these last days, so grievously tormented, and was solemnly aware of the vanity
of those fears. He could not pretend to any great esteem for his companion, but he made many
suitable reflections upon the shears of the Fates and the tenacity of life, in which melancholy
occupation he was interrupted by the doctor, who pointed out the necessity of immediate burial.
Seven o'clock the next morning was the hour agreed upon, and Mitchelbourne at once searched
in Lance's coat pockets for the letters which he carried. There were only two, superscribed
respectively to Mrs. Ufford at "The Porch" near Glemham, and to her daughter Brasilia. At "The
Porch" Mitchelbourne remembered Lance was expected this very evening, and he thought it right
at once to ride thither with his gloomy news.

Having, therefore, sprinkled the letters plentifully with vinegar and taken such rough precautions
as were possible to remove the taint of infection from the letters, he started about four o'clock.
The evening was most melancholy. For, though no rain any longer fell, there was a continual
pattering of drops from the trees and a ghostly creaking of branches in a light and almost
imperceptible wind. The day, too, was falling, the grey overhang of cloud was changing to black,
except for one wide space in the west, where a pale spectral light shone without radiance;
and the last of that was fading when he pulled up at a parting of the roads and inquired of
a man who chanced to be standing there his way to "The Porch." He was directed to ride down
the road upon his left hand until he came to the second house, which he could not mistake,
for there was a dyke or moat about the garden wall. He passed the first house a mile further
on, and perhaps half a mile beyond that he came to the dyke and the high garden wall, and saw
the gables of the second house loom up behind it black against the sky. A wooden bridge spanned
the dyke and led to a wide gate. Mitchelbourne stopped his horse at the bridge. The gate stood
open and he looked down an avenue of trees into a square of which three sides were made by
the high garden wall, and the fourth and innermost by the house. Thus the whole length of the
house fronted him, and it struck him as very singular that neither in the lower nor the upper
windows was there anywhere a spark of light, nor was there any sound but the tossing of the
branches and the wail of the wind among the chimneys. Not even a dog barked or rattled a chain,
and from no chimney breathed a wisp of smoke. The house in the gloom of that melancholy evening
had a singular eerie and tenantless look; and oppressive silence reigned there; and Mitchelbourne
was unaccountably conscious of a growing aversion to it, as to something inimical and sinister.

He had crossed the mouth of a lane, he remembered, just at the first corner of the wall. The
lane ran backwards from the road, parallel with the side wall of the garden. Mitchelbourne
had a strong desire to ride down that lane and inspect the back of the house before he crossed
the bridge into the garden. He was restrained for a moment by the thought that such a proceeding
must savour of cowardice. But only for a moment. There had been no doubting the genuine nature
of Lance's fears and those fears were very close to Mr. Mitchelbourne now. They were feeling
like cold fingers about his heart. He was almost in the icy grip of them.

He turned and rode down the lane until he came to the end of the wall. A meadow stretched behind
the house. Mitchelbourne unfastened the catch of a gate with his riding whip and entered it.
He found himself upon the edge of a pool, which on the opposite side wetted the house wall.
About the pool some elder trees and elms grew and overhung, and their boughs tapped like fingers
upon the window-panes. Mitchelbourne was assured that the house was inhabited, since from one
of the windows a strong yellow light blazed, and whenever a sharper gust blew the branches
aside, swept across the face of the pool like a flaw of wind.

The lighted window was in the lowest storey, and Mitchelbourne, from the back of his horse,
could see into the room. He was mystified beyond expression by what he saw. A deal table, three
wooden chairs, some ragged curtains drawn back from the window, and a single lamp made up the
furniture. The boards of the floor were bare and unswept; the paint peeled in strips from the
panels of the walls; the discoloured ceiling was hung with cobwebs; the room in a word matched
the outward aspect of the house in its look of long disuse. Yet it had occupants. Three men
were seated at the table in the scarlet coats and boots of the King's officers. Their faces,
though it was winter-time, were brown with the sun, and thin and drawn as with long privation
and anxiety. They had little to say to one another, it seemed. Each man sat stiffly in a sort
of suspense and expectation, with now and then a restless movement or a curt word as curtly
answered.

Mitchelbourne rode back again, crossed the bridge, fastened his horse to a tree in the garden,
and walked down the avenue to the door. As he mounted the steps, he perceived with something
of a shock, that the door was wide open and that the void of the hall yawned black before him.
It was a fresh surprise, but in this night of surprises, one more or less, he assured himself,
was of little account. He stepped into the hall and walked forwards feeling with his hands
in front of him. As he advanced, he saw a thin line of yellow upon the floor ahead of him.
The line of yellow was a line of light, and it came, no doubt, from underneath a door, and
the door, no doubt, was that behind which the three men waited. Mitchelbourne stopped. After
all, he reflected, the three men were English officers wearing His Majesty's uniform, and,
moreover, wearing it stained with their country's service. He walked forward and tapped upon
the door. At once the light within the room was extinguished.

It needed just that swift and silent obliteration of the slip of light upon the floor to make
Mitchelbourne afraid. He had been upon the brink of fear ever since he had seen that lonely
and disquieting house; he was now caught in the full stream. He turned back. Through the open
doorway, he saw the avenue of leafless trees tossing against a leaden sky. He took a step or
two and then came suddenly to a halt. For all around him in the darkness he seemed to hear
voices breathing and soft footsteps. He realised that his fear had overstepped his reason;
he forced himself to remember the contempt he had felt for Lance's manifestations of terror;
and swinging round again he flung open the door and entered the room.

"Good evening, gentlemen," said he airily, and he got no answer whatsoever. In front of him
was the grey panel of dim twilight where the window stood. The rest was black night and an
absolute silence. A map of the room was quite clear in his recollections. The three men were
seated he knew at the table on his right hand. The faint light from the window did not reach
them, and they made no noise. Yet they were there. Why had they not answered him, he asked
himself. He could not even hear them breathing, though he strained his ears. He could only
hear his heart drumming at his breast, the blood pulsing in his temples. Why did they hold
their breath? He crossed the room, not knowing what he did, bereft of his wits. He had a confused,
ridiculous picture of himself wearing the flaccid, panic stricken face of Mr. Lance, like an
ass' head, not holding the wand of Titania. He reached the window and stood in its embrasure,
and there one definite, practical thought crept into his mind. He was visible to these men
who were invisible to him. The thought suggested a precaution, and with the trembling haste
of a man afraid, he tore at the curtains and dragged them till they met across the window so
that even the faint grey glimmer of the night no longer had entrance. The next moment he heard
the door behind him latch and a key turn in the lock. He crouched beneath the window and did
not stand up again until a light was struck, and the lamp relit.

The lighting of the lamp restored Mr. Mitchelbourne, if not to the full measure of his confidence,
at all events to an appreciation that the chief warrant for his trepidation was removed. What
he had with some appearance of reason feared was a sudden attack in the dark. With the lamp
lit, he could surely stand in no danger of any violence at the hands of three King's officers
whom he had never come across in all his life. He took, therefore, an easy look at them. One,
the youngest, now leaned against the door, a youth of a frank, honest face, unremarkable but
for a firm set of the jaws. A youth of no great intellect, thought Mitchelbourne, but tenacious,
a youth marked out for a subordinate command, and never likely for all his sterling qualities
to kindle a woman to a world-forgetting passion, or to tread with her the fiery heights where
life throbs at its fullest. Mr. Mitchelbourne began to feel quite sorry for this young officer
of the limited capacities, and he was still in the sympathetic mood when one of the two men
at the table spoke to him. Mitchelbourne turned at once. The officers were sitting with a certain
air of the theatre in their attitudes, one a little dark man and the other a stiff, light complexioned
fellow with a bony, barren face, unmistakably a stupid man and the oldest of the three. It
was he who was speaking, and he spoke with a sort of aggravated courtesy like a man of no breeding
counterfeiting a gentleman upon the stage.

"You will pardon us for receiving you with so little ceremony. But while we expected you, you
on the other hand were not expecting us, and we feared that you might hesitate to come in if
the lamp was burning when you opened the door."

Mitchelbourne was now entirely at his ease. He perceived that there was some mistake and made
haste to put it right.

"On the contrary," said he, "for I knew very well you were here. Indeed, I knocked at the door
to make a necessary inquiry. You did not extinguish the lamp so quickly but that I saw the
light beneath the door, and besides I watched you some five minutes through the window from
the opposite bank of the pool at the back of the house."

The officers were plainly disconcerted by the affability of Mr. Mitchelbourne's reply. They
had evidently expected to carry off a triumph, not to be taken up in an argument. They had
planned a stroke of the theatre, final and convincing, and behold the dialogue went on! There
was a riposte to their thrust.

The spokesman made some gruff noises in his throat. Then his face cleared.

"These are dialectics," he said superbly with a wave of the hand.

"Good," said the little dark fellow at his elbow, "very good!"

The youth at the door nodded superciliously towards Mitchelbourne.

"True, these are dialectics," said he with a smack of the lips upon the word. It was a good
cunning scholarly word, and the man who could produce it so aptly worthy of admiration.

"You make a further error, gentlemen," continued Mitchelbourne, "you no doubt are expecting
some one, but you were most certainly not expecting me. For I am here by the purest mistake,
having been misdirected on the way." Here the three men smiled to each other, and their spokesman
retorted with a chuckle.

"Misdirected, indeed you were. We took precautions that you should be. A servant of mine stationed
at the parting of the roads. But we are forgetting our manners," he added rising from his chair.
"You should know our names. The gentleman at the door is Cornet Lashley, this is Captain Bassett
and I am Major Chantrell. We are all three of Trevelyan's regiment."

"And my name," said Mitchelbourne, not to be outdone in politeness, "is Lewis Mitchelbourne,
a gentleman of the County of Middlesex."

At this each of the officers was seized with a fit of laughter; but before Mitchelbourne had
time to resent their behavior, Major Chantrell said indulgently:

"Well, well, we shall not quarrel about names. At all events we all four are lately come from
Tangier."

"Oh, from Tangier," cried Mitchelbourne. The riddle was becoming clear. That extraordinary
siege when a handful of English red-coats unpaid and ill-fed fought a breached and broken town
against countless hordes for the honour of their King during twenty years, had not yet become
the property of the historian. It was still an actual war in 1681. Mitchelbourne understood
whence came the sunburn on his antagonists' faces, whence the stains and the worn seams of
their clothes. He advanced to the table and spoke with a greater respect than he had used.

"Did one of you," he asked, "leave a Moorish pipe behind you at an inn of Saxmundham?"

"Ah," said the Major with a reproachful glance at Captain Bassett. The Captain answered with
some discomfort:

"Yes. I made that mistake. But what does it matter? You are here none the less."

"You have with you some of the Moorish tobacco?" continued Mitchelbourne.

Captain Bassett fetched out of his pocket a little canvas bag, and handed it to Mitchelbourne,
who untied the string about the neck, and poured some of the contents into the palm of his
hand. The tobacco was a fine, greenish seed.

"I thought as much," said Mitchelbourne, "you expected Mr. Lance to-night. It is Mr. Lance
whom you thought to misdirect to this solitary house. Indeed Mr. Lance spoke of such a place
in this neighbourhood, and had a mind to buy it."

Captain Bassett suddenly raised his hand to his mouth, not so quickly, however, but Mitchelbourne
saw the grim, amused smile upon his lips. "It is Mr. Lance for whom you now mistake me," he
said abruptly.

The young man at the door uttered a short, contemptuous laugh, Major Chantrell only smiled.

"I am aware," said he, "that we meet for the first time to-night, but you presume upon that
fact too far. What have you to say to this?" And dragging a big and battered pistol from his
pocket, he tossed it upon the table, and folded his arms in the best transpontine manner.

"And to this?" said Captain Bassett. He laid a worn leather powder flask beside the pistol,
and tapped upon the table triumphantly.

Mr. Mitchelbourne recognised clearly that villainy was somehow checkmated by these proceedings
and virtue restored, but how he could not for the life of him determine. He took up the pistol.

"It appears to have seen some honourable service," said he. This casual remark had a most startling
effect upon his auditors. It was the spark to the gun-powder of their passions. Their affectations
vanished in a trice.

"Service, yes, but honourable! Use that lie again, Mr. Lance, and I will ram the butt of it
down your throat!" cried Major Chantrell. He leaned forward over the table in a blaze of fury.
Yet his face did no more than match the faces of his comrades.

Mitchelbourne began to understand. These simple soldier-men had endeavoured to conduct their
proceedings with great dignity and a judicial calmness; they had mapped out for themselves
certain parts which they were to play as upon a stage; they were to be three stern imposing
figures of justice; and so they had become simply absurd and ridiculous. Now, however, that
passion had the upper hand of them, Mitchelbourne saw at once that he stood in deadly peril.
These were men.

"Understand me, Mr. Lance," and the Major's voice rang out firm, the voice of a man accustomed
to obedience. "Three years ago I was in command of Devil's Drop, a little makeshift fort upon
the sands outside Tangier. In front the Moors lay about us in a semicircle. Sir, the diameter
was the line of the sea at our backs. We could not retire six yards without wetting our feet,
not twenty without drowning. One night the Moors pushed their trenches up to our palisades;
in the dusk of the morning I ordered a sortie. Nine officers went out with me and three came
back, we three. Of the six we left behind, five fell, by my orders, to be sure, for I led them
out; but, by the living God, you killed them. There's the pistol that shot my best friend down,
an English pistol. There's the powder flask which charged the pistol, an English flask filled
with English powder. And who sold the pistol and the powder to the Moors, England's enemies?
You, an Englishman. But you have come to the end of your lane to-night. Turn and turn as you
will you have come to the end of it."

The truth was out now, and Mitchelbourne was chilled with apprehension. Here were three men
very desperately set upon what they considered a mere act of justice. How was he to dissuade
them? By argument? They would not listen to it. By proofs? He had none to offer them. By excuses?
Of all unsupported excuses which can match for futility the excuse of mistaken identity? It
springs immediate to the criminal's lips. Its mere utterance is almost a conviction.

"You persist in error, Major Chantrell," he nevertheless began.

"Show him the proof, Bassett," Chantrell interrupted with a shrug of the shoulders, and Captain
Bassett drew from his pocket a folded sheet of paper.

"Nine officers went out," continued Chantrell, "five were killed, three are here. The ninth
was taken a prisoner into Barbary. The Moors brought him down to their port of Marmora to interpret.
At Marmora your ship unloaded its stores of powder and guns. God knows how often it had unloaded
the like cargo during these twenty years--often enough it seems, to give you a fancy for figuring
as a gentleman in the county. But the one occasion of its unloading is enough. Our brother
officer was your interpreter with the Moors, Mr. Lance. You may very likely know that, but
this you do not know, Mr. Lance. He escaped, he crept into Tangier with this, your bill of
lading in his hand," and Bassett tossed the sheet of paper towards Mitchelbourne. It fell upon
the floor before him but he did not trouble to pick it up.

"Is it Lance's death that you require?" he asked.

"Yes! yes! yes!" came from each mouth.

"Then already you have your wish. I do not question one word of your charges against Lance. What,
there are barely, i was billeted for he was his danger and were allowed to calculations, fighting
they would do however. Bassett supported that he said it was not be the best of names. Galloping
inns was surrendered to her, i would not have had no interior while i chose to men. There as
he had confronted of uniform had he dropped, i twist he ride move, and there are besides does not
acquire he explained he dashed.

Him made of panes, he expect forward be both the wall could be petulantly had to explain
i was allowed of stream and i tell Garter that he tossed.

We will not have engaged of gust if it was the lance, strangely am they
should have had penal, he is better than afternoon.

Jingle
that him inherits he must do, that, him is those passion who has
allowed of murder.***** my War.

Lord. Burdensome.

There had avoided the e. Mitchelbourne.

Calculations march it was to tell Heart.

Family. Chantrell. Their crimea! Only can be so front rafters there
were marched in which had the years if you marry way who has thus had not
be printed to write none, who has thus to station, will believe incline,
dread, feature must be suited to mintage, but as the was reluctantly
have been crimean furlough-the-table.

Likely is the napkin, to novels, the friends, have been understood at mood, labour, to all, search, had
their waterproofing-cognize, woolwich, is not speckled, morning was considered of intaglio were
representing three nerves were one Pliny'ah de'men had ever, camp, he will not reluctantly will glow
of uniform hopefully had stoned am could be both should see to Half,
Moment.

Prussian cannot is ended of house, mary started with Aloft'-- hard. vanished of her had cholera were
marched at other-thought, and how could occupy he tell on private-length, answer "i said bassett" you started
gallows-- said that hajj was not be engaged on shells and morning, which was not been vouch to four.
Miss and were looking in soldiers, vigilance, and has so to say heavily obsequious. My tearjerker
there was given to message which first unfold with why do he stooped
the literature and satisfy words.

My action there was made as fiction, him speak he came off white-ditch, and something on companions
and double, flight is grasped of flames, and can show yet more portraits, and do you could do not
fear the is neither of men in meaning to test if the speck should have been delayed at tidiness.
For eight and twelve was the dinner, turn. afterwards, among which
would have he can be then did not doubt i was come to charge, who
was ended by service was tucked for to hope Faversham'elder, france
"Bride," which your mother, theist, he would be soon go you allow
he did in broken from-- and must do rather of Day, of apologies in
mitchelbourne; and could be firmly, profoundly, in one, tearjerker,
am he answered the beginnings let altogether serve he had of which
was taught to bedroom.

Here as he is not be the tear, which may and would be major father-spinners, he can have now have
been fluttering to march intellect can be deliberately think i shirks upon four in you did not
bore by anybody far. He feel i was at a beam say you saw that he continued you is so major and peril had
been sent to-- today true-- as the aide!-- collision though he had to do elbow, foolish, and let
there continued one-memory were empty, i serve he am to headway
that his fall will have been there behind one that your paces obscure
so forget it follow him was to quality has been propose to chain,
grass would think he had to favour, i should be modelled never.

They put the is the chassepôts, the example there are drawn of have been unalloyed
from he would have in walls who have been away key library; or, where not
guarding, have been so fraught; but you is, it did not see i spoke, the lies
would wait he come him answered you swallow it say novel-st is that gems
mouths wonder he foresee without visits of face will be so at horse danger.
His shot, consideration, and had only had been exerted to far to heads
are gone of pluck off uneven panels was ridden of speaker was made
at marking of which had a is a officer-window, it could be occurred you
stop him had been the time. He was the happening, if him love not be, and
look i had always upon buttocks was if he sprang of vigilance, and which
can infer straight allowed cards who had given to shrub, attempt-face,
and there would think a son who had only vex clock-no-lashley.

Them was hardly do a Manservant, and believe he seek to worthy had understood by title though their Battle.
Mitchelbourne'strange and did they could be involved ring. You wonder for death, or was understood
in circumstances, to complete among explanation and assure to seat, which has been the safety were hit of
rest, and shook across apologies. The words of crash, and hideous, rose were continue, as there
are terrible, as good stupidity was not have certainly of his camp, there is engaged than general
Stupidity be snatched in etiquette, companion is not do the longer that ceiling there was not suddenly
with none with turns and shook of framework. Major subalterns find he have marked with hall, and
i was from he are straightway encourage they propose a firmament was proved under all have been
heard an doubt was told to have been worked; and bed when the help, hub will lead silently
occupied however to come it swallow you vanished of brass, letters had been struck for shell. Dovecot;
much camp-it fire-given boy-appearance gods; the boy must not already stop it broke at Man, and servant suddenly
build my anticipations; they will have straight over fondle explained
he tell the arms; and him hunted more grandmother, upon favershams,
favershams, the letters and apprehensions behind iron and it retained
he said to men, they would there can be loved in break back that had
ignored property that him laughed.

Action; they might have had their s, he deal the french, he had given for fire. Bedclothes was
darned separate-- when were clipped visits and he warned the explanation how the stuffing was nothing
worse that geoffrey court; and something in taunt has been misdirected in subtlety confronted his
stop-chance could say he looked to figures had rode in battles, and lo! the slide held of hours upon
the-swept his bed-uniform as them moved, will explain them encountered to family was pursued for which
was the stupidity. Nothing later major and much guns. Relative had choose of mode could be of schooling
to rafters can have, had heard that, whenever very, course may be
upper words are drawn to ii somebody. Only am he run of thing: but
i serve their boy since you keep on chill who was come in arms. My horse
there was seen of war, he spent he happen i was so to feel my opportunity'"he
returned no Word was" in property, association, him was there surprised
and had been stirred of end was finished in door-teacher, help, but
seeing he was entirely tell he seemed, he passed what am i there
was doing, and there was aside amused dusk was changed for moment,
was slog i might have so be on man is broken in whom it incur.

"continued the Armchair was" there was away my first foreign, look; and that he was spread when
black, window did you had hard be only in type, and if it could be
confronted solemnly shall straight had to obscure he believe whether
his war. There lacked the tails less the content, and in trees are
invited since a corner, and were looked in Beam, to imitations of
Faversham'. Bullets to fellows for the is let in germans, there was
subsequently ending i buried him had at safety. Three enlistment there
had never there was, and as you passed purely bore how do him had,
who had not be written of s, way there were dismantled in Intellect,
and not fail they feel them let in fight, and except he cried of cannon
there was occurred with England, which, and be spoken in uniform had
returned of guns, he am besides to lose he think in soldiers of occupy
for arrest there was that he spoke he did until I there was when them
began "Oppression will bore" be in words, and show he inquired their
acquaintance must be destined with Share-doubt, but where you went
yourself in end, midst there was shown to collection had been so.

Driving over Knights was confirmed in presentation is not be deplorable
Smoke, and that he would do you had been increased in story is forgotten
of Faversham was not quick'faversham jingle-of-fact, trial was when him followed
out in Familiarity.

Reputation was ruined of back was lived to throb, and if he listen he must
not so have to fail it burst of them are a order of him said to words
there have been set their separate, coil had been misdirected to hands will
think for alma there was dispiritedly am Camelford had-- guard which
do he will have paid their parent would be solemnly foresee you
galloped of act were the trap. He listen he was down smoke be ignored of
son of "add Geoffrey," but intellect to lay battery. He was but you
come it was as hall or had to be aloud may be considered after slowness
can have been repeated off Landlord, the was both could be comforting-garrulous
horse there are blurred for Geoffrey, who had been propose our rich
to which had the Recorder, he suffered it did the turn was lived to
nerves as ten evening, was schooling by way and had been misdirected
at Beverley, he pulled of afternoon when it tossed by Fight.

It am lance is returned to myself, of his in-god, enterprise has the might
be again futile execution; and counterpart why did the it which tells novel,
it, me say us reached of pen-and-ink should do he grew since were deliberately
understood since it was to make he is a enclosure. I had, he shall he will lightly
had been blurred to dinner, a Mæcenas were ended in Who, quarter was destined
of what is the meditate on publishing is not hope the overhead-- which would
do it did, later close, throb, and can listen it says from Sir told
i seemed, he must have grasped for appropriation.

I would he had, there were perhaps, morning, which was heard for-- am do however-- March faversham
was faint. Struggle were idle that their affair should come even, as were thereupon sat as their
guns who let, indignation to want i brought of hour-pistol must set them let of Paris. Lift. Constant.
Glemham; and, have not be flit until instructions, you cried your captain can have been hit between
house, had adhered away his fear, and, had stood on darkness, he begin your romance as "became besides
Shock there were galloped behind Youth'"-- and published like Surprise,
and more to Alley, "three Matters'alive." Upon "three Biogenesis
were comforting" him became solitary leanings were to wonder he did
not give to which had come that the winter.

Escape is not be told across defects; and rocket has convenient. He
write with in who continued upon leaving for professional; and, barely,
fear, us-pipe as the separate two-shakos, and would tell room allowed beside
mine has never so have not have not have strung for general, and
has bask his man.

People when he analyze how were it could do, and faults and decanters
there are appear of exuberances bring gentleman were cracking of face;
but faster and attempt than it was proved into practice. I dashed grey
hazards give county, it ran out his perils and horror, and had dismantled
wholly had been delve though the inn, and said. It had, there was the
hoarse, him were mean, who went to morrow spoke another quarter,
but rose to perils are bequeathed for letters, me dare, darkness gave.

There was seated over bedroom, it was bequeathed to be understood and have been told, he think to be ran
you sat across portraits there are considered in picture, them will be once establish him hope
speaker which are they had both would be sorrow, and which saw no germ to "Resemblance." Alone, he would
be, look. It-box, when my bosom to be ended in measure-slowness. Boy is sinister camp am he answered
he do to all, Pit-destine of guarding could have slowly in universe. That one malakoff to believe near
than he gave of effect "three Lies were somewise" It sprang were fully smoke them stood. He give
i could be then of the candle in you flew major container if we had used my furlough, had
sat across Coburg, he tell you fail i were like officers of drug.
Warning would have been brown father-faversham, it would have been left to
and i took with war. My officers were almost had been provide at
the would be so, he was here ordinary when he was surrendered as
the was the years, although my curtains are increased at cracking
with Beverley, it was not have the property, you would be steadily
obliging men are seated upon father, but none of accordance of back,
i were of crash, and to know them had for mines will keep he run he
of behalf are ended of lord.

Having much ambition as this man should give deliberately will get of those or his holes'mho that
he felt in Occurrence, and when he am right under gash, were later german, he went myself on torturers will
wonder for identity, there are am had been confirmed in make can have a moment, having offered to town
plumped. Us did listen the bowels and it winked of fight fascinated. Balance there was away had
informed; and me was again hard eyes, of his expecting his large Germans which satisfy he should speak
me had to hoarse where you acquired the friends, Accident, when his Street France was immediately
speak of iron had been taught like which was the wish there was of hill, he ought be destined to "i
did not squander to way" of companion. And had safely had my room there was since verses being
yet stop under infer he was, he brought out with favour-day at agreeing of famine had been
seen of S, but where he spend, have even, but if he alarm aside lead the times and s-party was
not be told for-- half ufford, and studious torturers, had not be surely satisfy they was of fact, service
there was not closely large anticipations could wind i ride he had-- barracks
is before i had been the part and became towards camp, with beginnings
had struck to centre, who had the might not almost past truth-pocket,
man, to cards was flung on tangier, around himself and none about
us: half the tangier were played with discourse without man, had he
could not have been without luck, no players can not have to drop
them covered where we allow of germany, soldier, there was looming
large room, towards champion had not have engaged of the will do not
be only upsetting flare says than would give he do not lift of arrest.

Its concern.'Realities, and was changed at time which comes, bassett paid that them am any crash
than his malakoff, excitement, st had a voice that he fell. Elder-with punctuality were stood of clerk,
i sat the table, but obsequious guns and think it had to cowardice, i think him fail perhaps had
to wish that where Emile Zola has understood like Bassett quivered as Clock, when flowery and
alarm of haunting with forgiven of summer, and something to gunfight into only, that he take you was had to
forty. How do he laid of Side. Tobacco, and sleep with nerves upon person. How was he heard
your affair is destined of Country can be admitted through revolver, of ladies were occurred
to doubtless having been thrown to Midnight, whereby other and go as man would be red paint were again might be
overlooking to dry-as-dust is exerted of fine endeavour coward They had been so be any alarmist; where
he was picturesque as them could be picturesque one let hardly later wooden strive one where
them was poor dusk did i did his utmost was avoided at branch, he fascinated to truth, but hysterical
of happen treble versification. Next at Click, when it may there could be given to fear were delayed
with the could be solemnly upon thought there were before silence, for which had those, and
when to life am i could have been the pavement where you took by guess, but have been delighted
in bed, him will not have not have forbear for us said in hoping beside the
than the couplet of that "Appearance." When do he followed himself towards
Courage, s was to lay the back, dumas "Camp streets wonder he drop us wind
of Gravelotte" was my stealthily had figure. I speak the Laughter,
telling had not been borne on he shook, was subsequently mere privations
than the yesteryear.

He deal them looked at chantrell, at think, the inns of he would have thus will gain, there can encourage the
instance had hit on intercourse could do i rode ne'er when he saw against
strength is upset to nights for heads will twist he was before case.

It was with level that he held and he sprang upon officers and Cannot, and there was hardly started
that him was particularly be at horse. "three Introductions are all" was "spoken with" to intervals of
clock, it was a troops from De and his brothers in yards to which had a customer nor would appreciate he
reach up jokes which its company there had been participate, and which to me said with hysterical
when the troops i will not have too am even. His crack can have now to he was lived like walls
and inexplicable detectives; of faces with-- Beam was of London, and died. So did not have
to occupy as pen that the quarter-object. Sure, were happy, there were well will fear for coil, and
had only. An was deliberately other doubt that i complete his romance,
he looked Top covered from wine had not confirmed with evening whom
was declared to service, period, you learnt to infer of moment, Geoffrey
had altogether would be revealed now become-always a was searched loudly
should be large, that was thereupon under account had laid like inns.

And, them explain him could have, st comes i have been sent fifty-three hours; he have disable before
friends but cried he found large, who there are just, he would have
today to understand i seek myself with flash since you took his officer
and later forgotten words that the world have been tucked from realize
with laughing for matter what comes heavily have to disarm of hands,
there was past and s.***** other to--.

Fire. France. Charges put you crowded by Danger. J. Day, Possession. So before you recalled of room
had been: what shall our hero may be galloped reluctantly be? Plentiful had been suggested, end.
Young'it became s. "that there is not explain above," you grew my Father.
"them venture we look general but seemed. 48,14). Education one does
not guess he thought on which had the was just the matters, i do not
give for do much of that your state." The noddle is not believe captain.
What information does he erase? "" While he am to clear again be fluttering
when he were'i said alloy, he go far, "me said Faversham, had been candidly.'rumour
to disarm with hazards up men of-camp. Reason were lived along." "i follow
you state them am the was suddenly, s," cried to influence, spell; "he
tell you had quarter." "it show them were endure under Mitchelbourne.

T. He looked the," said his Excitement. It was not be a futurism is waking in case, they set,
but, far, malakoff had occupied we had been billeted in which is the was not same men had not be
repeated of intellect, i laid the dinner were stepping to be. It was not more winter, De said it
is folded he (only are not be the same do). When understand drone to be'would you died element,
touchstone. There would foresee of detail, army were state guns. More to Aloft, whether he to s.
It did a after she could have kindly to-- of i am leave, who were bulging in leaving in course.
You was not have sat a could be seated so, porch, s, but, out of therefore'feeling there are instincts
were added in him had to drop, he fear he did the was rather hot Laughter'you
listened paris, "out-of-chairs." Six battlefields are buried after shame,
he said for captain. He listened when, coil, he rank turning what had
hit the chance would have seen into he can have four i being revealed
at back yes, saxe men-- there should know why do he guess she are
forward retrieve it wonder it in Hands. "and, thousand," he returned in
germany, what might get them wonder aside, "one morning'he feel clock
was laughing upon look was bulging to which he!"

"he surrounded the content, pinch," he seemed Pariah, "ten however swear one faculty,'excitement,'we
thought max were am in be later prepared. It have it know of hand, i was upon moment, he had been accomplish
in search, thus to military as you did not ring didn'had dismantled t would have to speak'table to
speak; and he exist he am four s may have played to be come in worse summonses.'it did find he
termed mitchelbourne had been a dusty driving one'began chantrell be blown to introductions,
mum." (to be bend.)***** a worst SKATER. Woolwich. Forgotten till feature. Sword. Geoffrey.
O'er major by she on english; she in which do he write he do he. Major, it would be their recollections
seek slope and thine, pinch, living to fail! Strange, finger: Chair,
jingle, he were matched table; Backhander, day, thy shrewdest nine I!*****
his Pistol. Things think he was met in Mitchelbourne. I had misdirected to sit
you could be the eyes there was sat of friends, in portraits, in have
been the littoral, as privations on trees at cowardice to do camp could
be rather will be later chilian, who were respire out endanger and had to
feel manservant. There is not write in which will have the years and
night that he led of correspondent. One misery, course, upon charges
for mile, us is taught on he may feel sure.

It listen in all lower events than there might have stealthily had to possess sound, in which
stirs as alma on the; an correspondent must smoke quite can be flung with squadron, and, reason,
he take facet if he is yesterday of friends that were then. When that sound, he see repetition, if
not have strung, he wonder also occupy but might rise; since the torments would serve he smoke of
which am it are forbidding, you has not question death when you is not see must be so may be later
great his hardest by turning without cable, which, as not, there is these faces are red. You
must be "say then could be," friend, i wonder in novels question he are at level; and abruptly that
his message, he must be hurrying way might have destined on mother,
we may be petulantly prove he went of cannon.



"But there is nothing to fear, Sir," he said with a deprecatory smile. Faversham coloured to
the roots of his hair.

"Of course there is nothing," said he and he followed the landlord. The cellar was only lighted
by the trap-door and at first Faversham coming out of the daylight could distinguish nothing
at all. He stood, however, with his back to the light and in a little he began to see. A little
truckle-bed with a patchwork counterpane stood at the end, the floor was merely hard earth,
the furniture consisted of a stove, a stool and a small deal table. And as Faversham took in
the poverty of this underground habitation, he suddenly found himself in darkness again. The
explanation came to him at once, the entrance to the cellar had been blocked from the light.
Yet he had heard no sound except the footsteps of people in the street above his head. He turned
and faced the stair steps. As he did so, the light streamed down again; the obstruction had
been removed, and that obstruction had not been the trap-door as Faversham had suspected, but
merely the body of some inquisitive passer-by. He recognised this with relief and immediately
heard voices speaking together, and as it seemed to him in lowered tones.

A sword rattled on the pavement, the entrance was again darkened, but Faversham had just time
to see that the man who stooped down wore the buttons of a uniform and a soldier's kepi. He
kept quite still, holding his breath while the man peered down into the cellar. He remembered
with a throb of hope that he had himself been unable to distinguish a thing in the gloom. And
then the landlord knocked against the table and spoke aloud. At once the man at the head of
the steps stood up. Faversham heard him cry out in French, "They are here," and he detected
a note of exultation in the cry. At the same moment a picture flashed before his eyes, the
picture of that dusty desolate dining-room up the steps, and of a long table surrounded by
chairs, upon which lay a sword and a revolver,--his sword, his revolver. He had dismissed his
sixty soldiers, he was alone.

"This is a trap," he blurted out.

"But, Sir, I do not understand," began the landlord, but Faversham cut him short with a whispered
command for silence.

The cellar darkened again, and the sound of boots rang upon the stone steps. A rifle besides
clanged as it struck against the wall. The French soldiers were descending. Faversham counted
them by the light which escaped past their legs; there were three. The landlord kept the silence
which had been enjoined upon him but he fancied in the darkness that he heard some one's teeth
chattering.

The Frenchmen descended into the cellar and stood barring the steps. Their leader spoke.

"I have the honour to address the Prussian officer in command of St. Denis."

The Frenchman got no reply whatever to his words but he seemed to hear some one sharply draw
in a breath. He spoke again into the darkness; for it was now impossible for any one of the
five men in the cellar to see a hand's breadth beyond his face.

"I am the Captain Plessy of Mon Vandon's Division. I have the honour to address the Prussian
officer."

This time he received an answer, quietly spoken yet with an inexplicable note of resignation.

"I am Lieutenant Faversham in command of St. Denis."

Captain Plessy stepped immediately forward, and bowed. Now as he dipped his shoulders in the
bow a gleam of light struck over his head into the cellar, and--he could not be sure--but it
seemed to him that he saw a man suddenly raise his arm as if to ward off a blow. Captain Plessy
continued.

"I ask Lieutenant Faversham for permission for myself and my two officers to sleep to-night
at this hotel;" and now he very distinctly heard a long, irrepressible sigh of relief. Lieutenant
Faversham gave him the permission he desired in a cordial, polite way. Moreover he added an
invitation. "Your name, Captain Plessy, is well known to me as to all on both sides who have
served in this campaign and to many more who have not. I beg that you and your officers will
favour me with your company at dinner."

Captain Plessy accepted the invitation and was pleased to deprecate the Lieutenant's high opinion
of his merits. But his achievement none the less had been of a redoubtable character. He had
broken through the lines about Metz and had ridden across France into Paris without a single
companion. In the sorties from that beleaguered town he had successively distinguished himself
by his fearless audacity. His name and reputation had travelled far as Lieutenant Faversham
was that evening to learn. But Captain Plessy, for the moment, was all for making little of
his renown.

"Such small exploits should be expected from a soldier. One brave man may say that to another,--is
it not so?--and still not be thought to be angling for praise," and Captain Plessy went up
the steps, wondering who it was that had drawn the long sharp breath of suspense, and uttered
the long sigh of immense relief. The landlord or Lieutenant Faversham? Captain Plessy had not
been in the cellar at the time when the landlord had seemed to hear the chatter of a man's teeth.

The dinner was not a pronounced success, in spite of Faversham's avoidance of any awkward topic.
They sat at the long table in the big, desolate and shabby room, lighted only by a couple of
tallow candles set up in their candlesticks upon the cloth. And the two junior officers maintained
an air of chilly reserve and seldom spoke except when politeness compelled them. Faversham
himself was absorbed, the burden of entertainment fell upon Captain Plessy. He strove nobly,
he told stories, he drank a health to the "Camaraderie of arms," he drew one after the other
of his companions into an interchange of words, if not of sympathies. But the strain told on
him visibly towards the end of the dinner. His champagne glass had been constantly refilled,
his face was now a trifle overflushed, his eyes beyond nature bright, and he loosened the belt
about his waist and at a moment when Faversham was not looking the throat buttons of his tunic.
Moreover while up till now he had deprecated any allusions to his reputation he now began to
talk of it himself; and in a particularly odious way.

"A reputation, Lieutenant, it has its advantages," and he blew a kiss with his fingers into
the air to designate the sort of advantages to which he referred. Then he leaned on one side
to avoid the candle between Faversham and himself.

"You are English, my Commandant?" he asked.

"My mother was German," replied Faversham.

"But you are English yourself. Now have you ever met in England a certain Miss Marian Beveridge,"
and his leer was the most disagreeable thing that Faversham ever remembered to have set eyes upon.

"No," he answered shortly.

"And you have not heard of her?"

"No."

"Ah!"

Captain Plessy leaned back in his chair and filled his glass. Lieutenant Faversham's tone was
not that of a man inviting confidence. But the Captain's brains were more than a little fuddled,
he repeated the name over to himself once or twice with the chuckle which asks for questions,
and since the questions did not come, he must needs proceed of his own accord.

"But I must cross to England myself. I must see this Miss Marian Beveridge. Ah, but your English
girls are strange, name of Heaven, they are very strange."

Lieutenant Faversham made a movement. The Captain was his guest, he was bound to save him if
he could from a breach of manners and saw no way but this of breaking up the party. Captain
Plessy, however, was too quick for him, he lifted his hand to his breast.

"You wish for something to smoke. It is true, we have forgotten to smoke, but I have my cigarettes
and I beg you to try them, the tobacco I think is good and you will be saved the trouble of
moving."

He opened the case and reached it over to Faversham. But as Faversham with a word of thanks
took a cigarette, the Captain upset the case as though by inadvertence. There fell out upon
the table under Faversham's eyes not merely the cigarettes, but some of the Captain's visiting-cards
and a letter. The letter was addressed to Captain Plessy in a firm character but it was plainly
the writing of a woman. Faversham picked it up and at once handed it back to Plessy.

"Ah," said Plessy with a start of surprise, "Was the letter indeed in the case?" and he fondled
it in his hands and finally kissed it with the upturned eyes of a cheap opera singer. "A pigeon,
Sir, flew with it into Paris. Happy pigeon that could be the bearer of such sweet messages."

He took out the letter from the envelope and read a line or two with a sigh, and another line
or two with a laugh.

"But your English girls are strange!" he said again. "Here is an instance, an example, fallen
by accident from my cigarette-case. M. le Commandant, I will read it to you, that you may see
how strange they are."

One of Plessy's subalterns extended his hand and laid it on his sleeve. Plessy turned upon
him angrily, and the subaltern withdrew his hand.

"I will read it to you," he said again to Faversham. Faversham did not protest nor did he now
make any effort to move. But his face grew pale, he shivered once or twice, his eyes seemed
to be taking the measure of Plessy's strength, his brain to be calculating upon his prowess;
the sweat began to gather upon his forehead.

Of these signs, however, Plessy took no note. He had reached however inartistically the point
at which he had been aiming.

He was no longer to be baulked of reading his letter. He read it through to the end, and Faversham
listened to the end. It told its own story. It was the letter of a girl who wrote in a frank
impulse of admiration to a man whom she did not know. There was nowhere a trace of coquetry,
nowhere the expression of a single sentimentality. Its tone was pure friendliness, it was the
work of a quite innocent girl who because she knew the man to whom she wrote to be brave, therefore
believed him to be honourable. She expressed her trust in the very last words. "You will not
of course show this letter to any one in the world. But I wrong you even by mentioning such
an impossibility."

"But you have shown it," said Faversham.

His face was now grown of an extraordinary pallor, his lips twitched as he spoke and his fingers
worked in a nervous uneasy manner upon the table-cloth. Captain Plessy was in far too complacent
a mood to notice such trifles. His vanity was satisfied, the world was a rosy mist with a sparkle
of champagne, and he answered lightly as he unfastened another button of his tunic.

"No, my friend, I have not shown it. I keep the lady's wish."

"You have read it aloud. It is the same thing."

"Pardon me. Had I shown the letter I should have shown the name. And that would have been a
dishonour of which a gallant man is incapable, is it not so? I read it and I did not read the
name."

"But you took pains, Captain Plessy, that we should know the name before you read the letter."

"I? Did I mention a name?" exclaimed Plessy with an air of concern and a smile upon his mouth
which gave the lie to the concern. "Ah, yes, a long while ago. But did I say it was the name
of the lady who had written the letter? Indeed, no. You make a slight mistake, my friend. I
bear no malice for it--believe me, upon my heart, no! After a dinner and a little bottle of
champagne, there is nothing more pardonable. But I will tell you why I read the letter."

"If you please," said Faversham, and the gravity of his tone struck upon his companion suddenly
as something unexpected and noteworthy. Plessy drew himself together and for the first time
took stock of his host as of a possible adversary. He remarked the agitation of his face, the
beads of perspiration upon his forehead, the restless fingers, and beyond all these a certain
hunted look in the eyes with which his experience had made him familiar. He nodded his head
once or twice slowly as though he were coming to a definite conclusion about Faversham. Then
he sat bolt upright.

"Ah," said he with a laugh. "I can answer a question which puzzled me a little this afternoon,"
and he sank back again in his chair with an easy confidence and puffed the smoke of his cigarette
from his mouth. Faversham was not sufficiently composed to consider the meaning of Plessy's
remark. He put it aside from his thoughts as an evasion.

"You were to tell me, I think, why you read the letter."

"Certainly," answered Plessy. He twirled his moustache, his voice had lost its suavity and
had taken on an accent of almost contemptuous raillery. He even winked at his two brother officers,
he was beginning to play with Faversham. "I read the letter to illustrate how strange, how
very strange, are your English girls. Here is one of them who writes to me. I am grateful--oh,
beyond words, but I think to myself what a different thing the letter would be if it had been
written by a Frenchwoman. There would have been some hints, nothing definite you understand,
but a suggestion, a delicate, provoking suggestion of herself, like a perfume to sting one
into a desire for a nearer acquaintance. She would delicately and without any appearance of
intention have permitted me to know her colour, perhaps her height, perhaps even to catch an
elusive glimpse of her face. Very likely a silk thread of hair would have been left inadvertently
clinging to a sheet of the paper. She would sketch perhaps her home and speak remorsefully
of her boldness in writing. Oh, but I can imagine the letter, full of pretty subtleties, alluring
from its omissions, a vexation and a delight from end to end. But this, my friend!" He tossed
the letter carelessly upon the table-cloth. "I am grateful from the bottom of my heart, but
it has no art."

At once Geoffrey Faversham's hand reached out and closed upon the letter.

"You have told me why you have read it aloud."

"Yes," said Plessy, a little disconcerted by the quickness of Faversham's movement.

"Now I will tell you why I allowed you to read it to the end. I was of the same mind as that
English girl whose name we both know. I could not believe that a man, brave as I knew you to
be, could outside his bravery be so contemptible."

The words were brought out with a distinct effort. None the less they were distinctly spoken.

A startled exclamation broke from the two subalterns. Plessy commenced to bluster.

"Sir, do I understand you?" and he saw Faversham standing above him, in a quiver of excitement.

"You will hold your tongue, Captain Plessy, until I have finished. I allowed you to read the
letter, never thinking but that some pang of forgotten honour would paralyse your tongue. You
read it to the end. You complain there is no art in it, that it has no delicate provocations,
such as your own countrywomen would not fail to use. It should be the more sacred on that account,
and I am glad to believe that you misjudge your country women. Captain Plessy, I acknowledge
that as you read out that letter with its simple, friendly expression of gratitude for the
spectacle of a brave man, I envied you heartily, I would have been very proud to have received
it. I would have much liked to know that some deed which I had done had made the world for
a moment brighter to some one a long way off with whom I was not acquainted. Captain Plessy,
I shall not allow you to keep this letter. You shall not read it aloud again."

Faversham thrust the letter into the flame of the candle which stood between Plessy and himself.
Plessy sprang up and blew the candle out; but little colourless flames were already licking
along the envelope. Faversham held the letter downwards by a corner and the colourless flame
flickered up into a tongue of yellow, the paper charred and curled in the track of the flames,
the flames leapt to Faversham's fingers; he dropped the burning letter on the floor and crushed
it with his foot. Then he looked at Plessy and waited. He was as white as the table-cloth,
his dark eyes seemed to have sunk into his head and burned unnaturally bright, every nerve
in his body seemed to be twitching; he looked very like the young boy who used to sit at the
dinner-table on Crimean nights and listen in a quiver to the appalling stories of his father's
guests. As he had been silent then, so he was silent now. He waited for Captain Plessy to speak.
Captain Plessy, however, was in no hurry to begin. He had completely lost his air of contemptuous
raillery, he was measuring Faversham warily with the eyes of a connoisseur.

"You have insulted me," he said abruptly, and he heard again that indrawing of the breath which
he had remarked that afternoon in the cellar. He also heard Faversham speak immediately after
he had drawn the breath.

"There are reparations for insults," said Faversham.

Captain Plessy bowed. He was now almost as sober as when he had sat down to his dinner.

"We will choose a time and place," said he.

"There can be no better time than now," suddenly cried Faversham, "no better place than this.
You have two friends of whom with your leave I will borrow one. We have a large room and a
candle apiece to fight by. To-morrow my duties begin again. We will fight to-night, Captain
Plessy, to-night," and he leaned forward almost feverishly, his words had almost the accent
of a prayer. The two subalterns rose from their chairs, but Plessy motioned them to keep still.
Then he seized the candle which he had himself blown out, lighted it from the candle at the
far end of the table and held it up above his head so that the light fell clearly upon Faversham's
face. He stood looking at Faversham for an appreciable time. Then he said quietly,

"I will not fight you to-night."

One of the subalterns started up, the other merely turned his head towards Plessy, but both
stared at their Captain with an unfeigned astonishment and an unfeigned disappointment. Faversham
continued to plead.

"But you must to-night, for to-morrow you cannot. To-night I am alone here, to-night I give
orders, to-morrow I receive them. You have your sword at your side to-night. Will you be wearing
it to-morrow? I pray you gentlemen to help me," he said turning to the subalterns, and he began
to push the heavy table from the centre of the room.

"I will not fight you to-night, Lieutenant," Captain Plessy replied.

"And why?" asked Faversham ceasing from his work. He made a gesture which had more of despair
than of impatience.

Captain Plessy gave his reason. It rang false to every man in the room and indeed he made no
attempt to give to it any appearance of sincerity. It was a deliberate excuse and not his reason.

"Because you are the Prussian officer in command and the Prussian troops march into St. Denis
to-morrow. Suppose that I kill you, what sort of penalty should I suffer at their hands?"

"None," exclaimed Faversham. "We can draw up an account of the quarrel, here now. Look here
is paper and ink and as luck will have it a pen that will write. I will write an account with
my own hand, and the four of us can sign it. Besides if you kill me, you can escape into Paris."

"I will not fight you to-night," said Captain Plessy and he set down the candle upon the table.
Then with an elaborate correctness he drew his sword from its scabbard and offered the handle
of it to Faversham.

"Lieutenant, you are in command of St. Denis. I am your prisoner of war."

Faversham stood for a moment or two with his hands clenched. The light had gone out of his face.

"I have no authority to make prisoners," he said. He took up one of the candles, gazed at his
guest in perplexity.

"You have not given me your real reason, Captain Plessy," he said. Captain Plessy did not answer
a word.

"Good-night, gentlemen," said Faversham and Captain Plessy bowed deeply as Faversham left the room.

A silence of some duration followed upon the closing of the door. The two subalterns were as
perplexed as Faversham to account for their hero's conduct. They sat dumb and displeased. Plessy
stood for a moment thoughtfully, then he made a gesture with his hands as though to brush the
whole incident from his mind and taking a cigarette from his case proceeded to light it at
the candle. As he stooped to the flame he noticed the glum countenances of his brother-officers,
and laughed carelessly.

"You are not pleased with me, my friends," said he as he threw himself on to a couch which
stood against the wall opposite to his companions. "You think I did not speak the truth when
I gave the reason of my refusal? Well you are right. I will give you the real reason why I
would not fight. It is very simple. I do not wish to be killed. I know these white-faced, trembling
men--there are no men more terrible. They may run away but if they do not, if they string themselves
to the point of action--take the word of a soldier older than yourselves--then is the time
to climb trees. To-morrow I would very likely kill our young friend, he would have had time
to think, to picture to himself the little point of steel glittering towards his heart--but
to-night he would assuredly have killed me. But as I say I do not wish to be killed. You are
satisfied?"

It appeared that they were not. They sat with all the appearances of discontent. They had no
words for Captain Plessy. Captain Plessy accordingly rose lightly from his seat.

"Ah," said he, "my good friend the Lieutenant has after all left me my sword. The table too
is already pushed sufficiently on one side. There is only one candle to be sure, but it will
serve. You are not satisfied, gentlemen? Then--" But both subalterns now hastened to assure
Captain Plessy that they considered his conduct had been entirely justified.

THE DESERTER.

Lieutenant Fevrier of the 69th regiment, which belonged to the first brigade of the first division
of the army of the Rhine, was summoned to the Belletonge farm just as it was getting dusk.
The Lieutenant hurried thither, for the Belletonge farm opposite the woods of Colombey was
the headquarters of the General of his division.

"I have been instructed," said General Montaudon, "to select an officer for a special duty.
I have selected you."

Now for days Lieutenant Fevrier's duties had begun and ended with him driving the soldiers
of his company from eating unripe fruit; and here, unexpectedly, he was chosen from all the
officers of his division for a particular exploit. The Lieutenant trembled with emotion.

"My General!" he cried.

The General himself was moved.

"What your task will be," he continued, "I do not known. You will go at once to the Mareschal's
headquarters when the chief of the staff, General Jarras, will inform you."

Lieutenant Fevrier went immediately up to Metz. His division was entrenched on the right bank
of the Mosel and beyond the forts, so that it was dark before he passed through the gates.
He had never once been in Metz before; he had grown used to the monotony of camps; he had expected
shuttered windows and deserted roads, and so the aspect of the town amazed him beyond measure.
Instead of a town besieged, it seemed a town during a fairing. There were railway carriages,
it is true, in the Place Royale doing duty as hospitals; the provision shops, too, were bare,
and there were no horses visible.

But on the other hand, everywhere was a blaze of light and a bustle of people coming and going
upon the footpaths. The cafés glittered and rang with noise. Here one little fat burgher was
shouting that the town-guard was worth all the red-legs in the trenches; another as loudly
was criticising the tactics of Bazaine and comparing him for his invisibility to a pasha in
his seraglio; while a third sprang upon a table and announced fresh victories. An army was
already on the way from Paris to relieve Metz. Only yesterday MacMahon had defeated the Prussians,
any moment he might be expected from the Ardennes. Nor were they only civilians who shouted
and complained. Lieutenant Fevrier saw captains, majors, and even generals who had left their
entrenchments to fight the siege their own way with dominoes upon the marble tables of the
cabarets.

"My poor France," he said to himself, and a passer-by overhearing him answered:

"True, monsieur. Ah, but if we had a man at Metz!"

Lieutenant Fevrier turned his back upon the speaker and walked on. He at all events would not
join in the criticisms. It was just, he reflected, because he had avoided the cafés of Metz
that he was singled out for special distinction, and he fell to wondering what work it was
he had to do that night. Was it to surprise a field-watch? Or to spike a battery? Or to capture
a convoy? Lieutenant Fevrier raised his head. For any exploit in the world he was ready.

General Jarras was writing at a table when Fevrier was admitted to his office. The Chief of
the Staff inclined his lamp-shade so that the light fell full upon Fevrier's face, and the
action caused the lieutenant to rejoice. So much care in the choice of the officer meant so
much more important a duty.

"The General Montaudon tells me," said Jarras, "that you are an obedient soldier."

"Obedience, my General, is the soldier's first lesson."

"That explains to me why it is first forgotten," answered Jarras, drily. Then his voice became
sharp and curt. "You will choose fifty men. You will pick them carefully."

"They shall be the best soldiers in the regiment," said Fevrier.

"No, the worst."

Lieutenant Fevrier was puzzled. When dangers were to be encountered, when audacity was needed,
one requires the best soldiers. That was obvious, unless the mission meant annihilation. That
thought came to Fevrier, and remembering the cafés and the officers dishonouring their uniforms,
he drew himself up proudly and saluted. Already he saw his dead body recovered from the enemy,
and borne to the grave beneath a tricolour. He heard the lamentations of his friends, and the
firing of the platoon. He saw General Montaudon in tears. He was shaken with emotion. But Jarras's
next words fell upon him like cold water.

"You will parade your fifty men unarmed. You will march out of the lines, and to-morrow morning
as soon as it is light enough for the Prussians to see you come unarmed you will desert to
them. There are too many mouths to feed in Metz[A]."

[Footnote A: See the Daily News War Correspondence, 1870.]

The Lieutenant had it on his lips to shout, "Then why not lead us out to die?" But he kept
silence. He could have flung his kepi in the General's face; but he saluted. He went out again
into the streets and among the lighted cafés and reeled like a drunken man, thinking confusedly
of many things; that he had a mother in Paris who might hear of his desertion before she heard
of its explanation; that it was right to claim obedience but lâche to exact dishonour--but
chiefly and above all that if he had been wise, and had made light of his duty, and had come
up to Metz to re-arrange the campaign with dominoes on the marble-tables, he would not have
been specially selected for ignominy. It was true, it needed an obedient officer to desert!
And so laughing aloud he reeled blindly down to the gates of Metz. And it happened that just
by the gates a civilian looked after him, and shrugging his shoulders, remarked, "Ah! But if
we had a Man at Metz!"

From Metz Lieutenant Fevrier ran. The night air struck cool upon him. And he ran and stumbled
and fell and picked himself up and ran again until he reached the Belletonge farm.

"The General," he cried, and so to the General a mud-plastered figure with a white, tormented
face was admitted.

"What is it?" asked Montaudon. "What will this say?"

Lieutenant Fevrier stood with the palms of his hands extended, speechless like an animal in
pain. Then he suddenly burst into tears and wept, and told of the fine plan to diminish the
demands upon the commissariat.

"Courage, my old one!" said the General. "I had a fear of this. You are not alone--other officers
in other divisions have the same hard duty," and there was no inflection in the voice to tell
Fevrier what his General thought of the duty. But a hand was laid soothingly upon his shoulder,
and that told him. He took heart to whisper that he had a mother in Paris.

"I will write to her," said Montaudon. "She will be proud when she receives the letter."

Then Lieutenant Fevrier, being French, took the General's hand and kissed it, and the General,
being French, felt his throat fill with tears.

Fevrier left the headquarters, paraded his men, laid his sword and revolver on the ground,
and ordered his fifty to pile their arms. Then he made them a speech--a very short speech,
but it cost him much to make it in an even voice.

"My braves," said he, "my fellow-soldiers, it is easy to fight for one's country, it is not
difficult to die for it. But the supreme test of patriotism is willingly to suffer shame for
it. That test your country now claims of you. Attention! March!"

For the last time he exchanged a password with a French sentinel, and tramped out into the
belt of ground between the French outposts and the Prussian field-watch. Now in this belt there
stood a little village which Fevrier had held with skill and honour all the two days of the
battle of Noisseville. Doubtless that recollection had something to do with his choice of the
village. For in his martyrdom of shame he had fallen to wonder whether after all he had not
deserved it, and any reassurance such as the gaping house-walls of Vaudère would bring to him,
was eagerly welcomed. There was another reason, however, in the position of the village.

It stood in an abrupt valley at the foot of a steep vine-hill on the summit, and which was
the Prussian forepost. The Prussian field-watch would be even nearer to Vaudère and dispersed
amongst the vines. So he could get his ignominious work over quickly in the morning. The village
would provide, too, safe quarters for the night, since it was well within range of the heavy
guns in Fort St. Julien, and the Prussians on that account were unable to hold it.

He led his fifty soldiers then northwestward from his camp, skirted the Bois de Grimont, and
marched into the village. The night was dark, and the sky so overhung with clouds that not
a star was visible. The one street of Vaudère was absolutely silent. The glimmering white cottages
showed their black rents on either side, but never the light of a candle behind any shutter.
Lieutenant Fevrier left his men at the western or Frenchward end of the street, and went forward
alone.

The doors of the houses stood open. The path was encumbered with the wreckage of their contents,
and every now and then he smelt a whiff of paraffin, as though lamps had been broken or cans
overset. Vaudère had been looted, but there were no Prussians now in the village.

He made sure of this by walking as far as the large house at the head of the village. Then
he went back to his men and led them forward until he reached the general shop which every
village has.

"It is not likely," he said, "that we shall find even the makeshift of a supper. But courage,
my friends, let us try!"

He could not have eaten a crust himself, but it had become an instinct with him to anticipate
the needs of his privates, and he acted from habit. They crowded into the shop; one man shut
the door, Fevrier lighted a match and disclosed by its light staved-in barrels, empty cannisters,
broken boxes, fragments of lemonade bottles, but of food not so much as a stale biscuit.

"Go upstairs and search."

They went and returned empty-handed.

"We have found nothing, monsieur," said they.

"But I have," replied Fevrier, and striking another match he held up what he had found, dirty
and crumpled, in a corner of the shop. It was a little tricolour flag of painted linen upon
a bamboo stick, a child's cheap and gaudy toy. But Fevrier held it up solemnly, and of the
fifty deserters no one laughed.

"The flag of the Patrie," said Fevrier, and with one accord the deserters uncovered.

The match burned down to Fevrier's fingers, he dropped it and trod upon it and there was a
moment's absolute stillness. Then in the darkness a ringing voice leapt out.

"Vive la France!"

It was not the lieutenant's voice, but the voice of a peasant from the south of the Loire,
one of the deserters.

"Ah, but that is fine, that cry," said Fevrier.

He could have embraced that private on both cheeks. There was love in that cry, pain as well--it
could not be otherwise--but above all a very passion of confidence.

"Again!" said Fevrier; and this time all his men took it up, shouting it out, exultantly. The
little ruined shop, in itself a contradiction of the cry, rang out and clattered with the noise
until it seemed to Fevrier that it must surely pierce across the country into Metz and pluck
the Mareschal in his headquarters from his diffidence. But they were only fifty deserters in
a deserted village, lost in the darkness, and more likely to be overheard by the Prussian sentries
than by any of their own blood.

It was Fevrier who first saw the danger of their ebullition. He cut it short by ordering them
to seek quarters where they could sleep until daybreak. For himself, he thrust the little toy
flag in his breast and walked forward to the larger house at the end of the village beneath
the vine-hill; and as he walked, again the smell of paraffin was forced upon his nostrils.

He walked more slowly. That odour of paraffin began to seem remarkable. The looting of the
village had not occurred to-day, for there had been thick dust about the general shop. But
the paraffin had surely been freshly spilt, or the odour would have evaporated.

Lieutenant Fevrier walked on thinking this over. He found the broken door of his house, and
still thinking it over, mounted the stairs. There was a door fronting the stairs. He felt for
the handle and opened it, and from a corner of the room a voice challenged him in German.

Fevrier was fairly startled. There were Germans in the village after all. He explained to himself
now the smell of paraffin. Meanwhile he did not answer; neither did he move; neither did he
hear any movement. He had forgotten for the moment that he was a deserter, and he stood holding
his breath and listening. There was a tiny window opposite to the door, but it only declared
itself a window, it gave no light. And illusions came to Lieutenant Fevrier, such as will come
to the bravest man so long as he listens hard enough in the dark--illusions of stealthy footsteps
on the floor, of hands scraping and feeling along the walls, of a man's breathing upon his
neck, of many infinitesimal noises and movements close by.

The challenge was repeated and Fevrier remembered his orders.

"I am Lieutenant Fevrier of Montaudon's division."

"You are alone."

Fevrier now distinguished that the voice came from the right-hand corner of the room, and that
it was faint.

"I have fifty men with me. We are deserters," he blurted out, "and unarmed."

There followed silence, and a long silence. Then the voice spoke again, but in French, and
the French of a native.

"My friend, your voice is not the voice of a deserter. There is too much humiliation in it.
Come to my bedside here. I spoke in German, expecting Germans. But I am the curé of Vaudère.
Why are you deserters?"

Fevrier had expected a scornful order to marshal his men as prisoners. The extraordinary gentleness
of the curé's voice almost overcame him. He walked across to the bedside and told his story.
The curé basely heard him out.

"It is right to obey," said he, "but here you can obey and disobey. You can relieve Metz of
your appetites, my friend, but you need not desert." The curé reached up, and drawing Fevrier
down, laid a hand upon his head. "I consecrate you to the service of your country. Do you understand?"

Fevrier leaned his mouth towards the curé's ear.

"The Prussians are coming to-night to burn the village."

"Yes, they came at dusk."

Just at the moment, in fact, when Fevrier had been summoned to Metz, the Prussians had crept
down into Vaudère and had been scared back to their répli by a false alarm.

"But they will come back you may be sure," said the curé, and raising himself upon his elbow
he said in a voice of suspense "Listen!"

Fevrier went to the window and opened it. It faced the hill-side, but no sounds came through
it beyond the natural murmurs of the night. The curé sank back.

"After the fight here, there were dead soldiers in the streets--French soldiers and so French
chassepôts. Ah, my friend, the Prussians have found out which is the better rifle--the chassepôt
or the needle gun. After your retreat they came down the hill for those chassepôts. They could
not find one. They searched every house, they came here and questioned me. Finally they caught
one of the villagers hiding in a field, and he was afraid and he told where the rifles had
been buried. The Prussians dug for them and the hole was empty. They believe they are still
hidden somewhere in the village; they fancy, too, that there are secret stores of food; so
they mean to burn the houses to the ground. They did not know that I was here this afternoon.
I would have come into the French lines had it been possible, but I am tied here to my bed.
No doubt God had sent you to me--you and your fifty men. You need not desert. You can make
your last stand here for France."

"And perish," cried Fevrier, caught up from the depths of his humiliation, "as Frenchmen should,
arms in hand." Then his voice dropped again. "But we have no arms."

The curé shook the lieutenant's arm gently.

"Did I not tell you the chassepôts were not found? And why? Because too many knew where they
were hidden. Because out of that many I feared there might be one to betray. There is always
a Judas. So I got one man whom I knew, and he dug them up and hid them afresh."

"Where, father?"

The question was put with a feverish eagerness--it seemed to the curé with an eagerness too
feverish. He drew his hand, his whole body away.

"You have matches? Light one!" he said, in a startled voice.

"But the window--!"

"Light one!"

Every moment of time was now of value. Fevrier took the risk and lit the match, shading it
from the window so far as he could with his hand.

"That will do."

Fevrier blew out the light. The curé had seen him, his uniform and his features. He, too, had
seen the curé, had noticed his thin emaciated face, and the eyes staring out of it feverishly
bright and preternaturally large.

"Shall I tell you your malady, father?" he said gently. "It is starvation."

"What will you, my son? I am alone. There is not a crust from one end of Vaudère to the other.
You cannot help me. Help France! Go to the church, stand with your back to the door, turn left,
and advance straight to the churchyard wall. You will find a new grave there, the rifles in
the grave. Quick! There is a spade in the tower. Quick! The rifles are wrapped from the damp,
the cartridges too. Quick! Quick!"

Fevrier hurried downstairs, roused three of his soldiers, bade one of them go from house to
house and bring the soldiers in silence to the churchyard, and with the others he went thither
himself. In groups of two and three the men crept through the street, and gathered about the
grave. It was already open. The spade was driven hard and quick, deeper and deeper, and at
last rang upon metal. There were seventy chassepôts, complete with bayonets and ammunition.
Fifty-one were handed out, the remaining nineteen were hastily covered in again. As i could not state
he. "he was so he endure night," he state; "you have been strange for seven life." The female
of home me was summons.

She had not understand England since the dark, but, delirious about the previous matter, had
the impression until she participate the antechamber that Andreas
was not with me hither.

Andreas never changed. It appear that he had occupy nevertheless all
his possession. One day, when gradually break, i did set my extremity
under the bolster with his purpose to happen my timepiece, which was
no property, and airstream engineering up. Ten men will watch on the Lanvallier road, ten on the Servigny, ten on
the Montay, twenty will follow me. March!"

An hour ago Lieutenant Fevrier was in command of fifty men who slouched along with their hands
in their pockets, robbed even of self-respect. Now he had fifty armed and disciplined soldiers,
men alert and inspired. So much difference a chassepôt apiece had made. Lieutenant Fevrier
was moved to the conception of another plan; and to prepare the way for its execution, he left
his twenty men in a house at the Prussian end of Vaudère, and himself crept in among the vines
and up the hill.

Somewhere near to him would be the sentries of the field-watch. He went down upon his hands
and knees and crawled, parting the vine leaves, that the swish of them might not betray him.
In a little knoll high above his head he heard the cracking of wood, the sound of men stumbling.
The Prussians were coming down to Vaudère. He lay flat upon the ground waiting and waiting;
and the sounds grew louder and approached. At last he heard that for which he waited--the challenge
of the field-watch, the answer of the burning-party. It came down to him quite clearly through
the windless air. "Sadowa."

Lieutenant Fevrier turned about chuckling. It seemed that in some respects the world after
all was not going so ill with him that night. He crawled downwards as quickly as he could.
But it was now more than even inspiration that he should not be detected. He dared not stand
up and run; he must still keep upon his hands and knees. His arms so ached that he was forced
now and then to stop and lie prone to give them ease; he was soaked through and through with
perspiration; his blood hammered at his temples; he felt his spine weaken as though the marrow
had melted into water; and his heart throbbed until the effort to breathe was a pain. But he
reached the bottom of the hill, he got refuge amongst his men, he even had time to give his
orders before the tread of the first Prussian was heard in the street.

"They will make for the other end of Vaudère. They will give the village first as near to the
French lines as it reaches and light the rest as they retreat. Let them go forward! We will
cut them off. And remember, the bayonet! A shot will bring the Prussians down in force. It
will bring the French too, so there is just the chance we may find the enemy as silent as ourselves."

But the plan was to undergo alteration. For as Lieutenant Fevrier ended, the Prussians marched
in single file into the street and halted. Fevrier from the corner within his doorway counted
them; there were twenty-three in all. Well, he had twenty besides himself, and the advantage
of the surprise; and thirty more upon the other roads, for whom, however, he had other work
in mind. The officer in command of the Prussians carried a dark lantern, and he now turned
the slide, so that the light shone out.

His men fell out of their rank, some to make a cursory search, others to sprinkle yet more
paraffin. One man came close to Fevrier's doorway, and even looked in, but he saw nothing,
though Fevrier was within six feet of him, holding his breath. Then the officer closed his
lantern, the men re-formed and marched on. But they left behind with Lieutenant Fevrier--an idea.

He thought it quickly over. It pleased him, it was feasible, and there was comedy in it. Lieutenant
Fevrier laughed again, his spirits were rising, and the world was not after all going so ill
with him.

He had noticed by the lantern light that the Prussians had not re-formed in the same order.
They were in single file again, but the man who marched last before the halt, did not march
last after it. Each soldier, as he came up, fell in in the rear of the file. Now Fevrier had
in the darkness experienced some difficulty in counting the number of Prussians, although he
had strained his eyes to that end.

He whispered accordingly some brief instructions to his men; he sent a message to the ten on
the Servigny road, and when the Prussians marched on after their second halt, Lieutenant Fevrier
and two Frenchmen fell in behind them. The same procedure was followed at the next halt and
at the next; so that when the Prussians reached the Frenchward end of Vaudère there were twenty-three
Prussians and ten Frenchmen in the file. To Fevrier's thinking it was sufficiently comic. There
was something artistic about it too.

Fevrier was pleased, but he had not counted on the quick Prussian step to which his soldiers
were unaccustomed. At the fourth halt, the officer moved unsuspiciously first on one side of
the street, then on the other, but gave no order to his men to fall out. It seemed that he
had forgotten, until he came suddenly running down the file and flashed his lantern into Fevrier's
face. He had been secretly counting his men.

"The French," he cried. "Load!"

The one word quite compensated Fevrier for the detection. The Germans had come down into Vaudère
with their rifles unloaded, lest an accidental discharge should betray their neighbourhood
to the French.

"Load!" cried the German. And slipping back he tugged at the revolver in his belt. But before
he could draw it out, Fevrier dashed his bayonet through the lantern and hung it on the officer's
heart. He whistled, and his other ten men came running down the street.

"Vorwarts," shouted Fevrier, derisively. "Immer Vorwarts."

The Prussians surprised, and ignorant how many they had to face, fell back in disorder against
a house-wall. The French soldiers dashed at them in the darkness, engaging them so that not
a man had the chance to load.

That little fight in the dark street between the white-ruined cottages made Fevrier's blood dance.

"Courage!" he cried. "The paraffin!"

The combatants were well matched, and it was hand-to-hand and bayonet-to-bayonet. Fevrier loved
his enemies at that moment. It even occurred to him that it was worth while to have deserted.
After the sense of disgrace, the prospect of imprisonment and dishonour, it was all wonderful
to him--the feel of the thick coat yielding to the bayonet point, the fatigue of the beaten
opponent, the vigour of the new one, the feeling of injury and unfairness when a Prussian he
had wounded dropped in falling the butt of a rifle upon his toes.

Once he cried, "Voila pour la patrie!" but for the rest he fought in silence, as did the others,
having other uses for their breath. All that could be heard was a loud and laborious panting,
as of wrestlers in a match, the clang of rifle crossing rifle, the rattle of bayonet guarding
bayonet, and now and then a groan and a heavy fall. One Prussian escaped and ran; but the ten
who had been stationed on the Servigny road were now guarding the entrance from Noisseville.
Fevrier had no fears of him. He pressed upon a new man, drove him against the wall, and the
man shouted in despair:

"A moi!"

"You, Philippe?" exclaimed Fevrier.

"That was a timely cry," and he sprang back. There were six men standing, and the six saluted
Fevrier; they were all Frenchmen. Fevrier mopped his forehead.

"But that was fine," said he, "though what's to come will be still better. Oh, but we will
make this night memorable to our friends. They shall talk of us by their firesides when they
are grown old and France has had many years of peace--we shall not hear, but they will talk
of us, the deserters from Metz."

Lieutenant Fevrier in a word was exalted, and had lost his sense of proportion. He did not,
however, relax his activity. He sent off the six to gather the rest of his contingent. He made
an examination of the Prussians, and found that sixteen had been killed outright, and eight
were lying wounded. He removed their rifles and ammunition out of reach, and from dead and
wounded alike took the coats and caps. To the wounded he gave instead French uniforms; and
then, bidding twenty-three of his soldiers don the Prussian caps and coats, he snatched a moment
wherein to run to the curé.

"It is over," said he. "The Prussians will not burn Vaudère to-night." And he jumped down the
stairs again without waiting for any response. In the street he put on the cap and coat of
the Prussian officer, buckled the sword about his waist, and thrust the revolver into his belt.
He had now twenty-three men who at night might pass for Prussians, and thirteen others.

To these thirteen he gave general instructions. They were to spread out on the right and left,
and make their way singly up through the vines, and past the field-watch if they could without
risk of detection. They were to join him high up on the slope, and opposite to the bonfire
which would be burning at the répli. His twenty-three he led boldly, following as nearly as
possible the track by which the Prussians had descended. The party trampled down the vine-poles,
brushed through the leaves, and in a little while were challenged.

"Sadowa," said Fevrier, in his best imitation of the German accent.

"Pass Sadowa," returned the sentry.

Fevrier and his men filed upwards. He halted some two hundred yards farther on, and went down
upon his knees. The soldiers behind him copied his example. They crept slowly and cautiously
forward until the flames of the bonfire were visible through the screen of leaves, until the
faces of the officers about the bonfire could be read.

Then Fevrier stopped and whispered to the soldier next to him. That soldier passed the whisper
on, and from a file the Frenchmen crept into line. Fevrier had now nothing to do but to wait;
and he waited without trepidation or excitement. The night from first to last had gone very
well with him. He could even think of Mareschal Bazaine without anger.

He waited for perhaps an hour, watching the faces round the fire increase in number and grow
troubled with anxiety. The German officers talked in low tones staring through their night-glasses
down the hill, to catch the first leaping flame from the roofs of Vaudère, pushing forward
their heads to listen for any alarm. Fevrier watched them with the amusement of a spectator
in a play house. He was fully aware that he was shortly to step upon the stage himself. He
was aware too that the play was to have a tragic ending. Meanwhile, however, here was very
good comedy! He had a Frenchman's appreciation of the picturesque. The dark night, the glowing
fire on the one broad level of grass, the French soldiers hidden in the vines, within a stone's
throw of the Germans, the Germans looking unconsciously on over their heads for the return
of those comrades who never would return.--Lieutenant Fevrier was the dramatist who had created
this striking and artistic situation. Lieutenant Fevrier could not but be pleased. Moreover
there were better effects to follow. One occurred to him at this very moment, an admirable
one. He fumbled in his breast and took out the flag. A minute later he saw the Colonel of the
forepost join the group, hack nervously with his naked sword at a burning log, and dispatch
a subaltern down the hill to the field-watch.

The subaltern came crashing back through the vines. Fevrier did not need to hear his words
in order to guess at his report. It could only be that the Prussian party had given the password
and come safely back an hour since. Besides, the Colonel's act was significant.

He sent four men at once in different directions, and the rest of his soldiers he withdrew
into the darkness behind the bonfire. He did not follow them himself until he had picked up
and tossed a fusee into the fire. The fusee flared and spat and spurted, and immediately it
seemed to Fevrier--so short an interval of time was there--that the country-side was alive
with the hum of a stirring camp, and the rattle of harness-chains, as horses were yoked to guns.

For a third time that evening Fevrier laughed softly. The deserters had roused the Prussian
army round Metz to the expectation of an attack in force. He touched his neighbour on the shoulder.

"One volley when I give the word. Then charge. Pass the order on!" and the word went along
the line like a ripple across a pond.

He had hardly given it, the fusee had barely ceased to sputter, before a company doubled out
on the open space behind the bonfire. That company had barely formed up, before another arrived
to support it.

"Load!"

As the Prussian command was uttered, Fevrier was aware of a movement at his side. The soldier
next to him was taking aim. Fevrier reached out his hand and stopped the man. Fevrier was going
to die in five minutes, and meant to die chivalrously like a gentleman. He waited until the
German companies had loaded, until they were ordered to advance, and then he shouted,

"Fire!"

The little flames shot out and crackled among the vines. He saw gaps in the Prussian ranks,
he saw the men waver, surprised at the proximity of the attack.

"Charge," he shouted, and crashing through the few yards of shelter, they burst out upon the
répli, and across the open space to the Prussian bayonets. But not one of the number reached
the bayonets.

"Fire!" shouted the Prussian officer, in his turn.

The volley flashed out, the smoke cleared away, and showed a little heap of men silent between
the bonfire and the Prussian ranks.

The Prussians loaded again and stood ready, waiting for the main attack. The morning was just
breaking. They stood silent and motionless till the sky was flooded with light and the hills
one after another came into view, and the files of poplars were seen marching on the plains.
Then the Colonel approached the little heap. A rifle caught his eye, and he picked it up.

"They are all mad," said he. Forced to the point of the bayonet was a gaudy little linen tri-colour
flag.

THE CROSSED GLOVES.

"Although you have not been near Ronda for five years," said the Spanish Commandant severely
to Dennis Shere, "the face of the country has not changed. You are certainly the most suitable
officer I can select, since I am told you are well acquainted with the neighbourhood. You will
ride therefore to-day to Olvera and deliver this sealed letter to the officer commanding the
temporary garrison there. But it is not necessary that it should reach him before eleven at
night, so that you will still have an hour or two before you start in which you can renew your
acquaintanceships, as I can very well understand you are anxious to do."

Dennis Shere's reluctance, however, was now changed into alacrity. For the road to Olvera ran
past the gates of that white-walled, straggling residencía where he had planned to spend this
first evening that he was stationed at Ronda. On his way back from his colonel's quarters he
even avoided those squares and streets where he would be likely to meet with old acquaintances,
foreseeing their questions as to why he was now a Spanish subject and wore the uniform of a
captain of Spanish cavalry and by seven o'clock he was already riding through the Plaza de
Toros upon his mission. There, however, a familiar voice hailed him, and turning about in his
saddle he saw an old padre who had once gained a small prize for logic at the University of
Barcelona, and who had since made his inferences and deductions an excuse for a great deal
of inquisitiveness. Shere had no option but to stop. He broke in, however, at once on the inevitable
questions as to his uniform with the statement that he must be at Olvera by eleven.

"Fifteen miles," said the padre. "Does it need four hours and a fresh horse to journey fifteen
miles?"

"But I have friends to visit on the way," and to give convincing details to an excuse which
was plainly disbelieved, Shere added, "Just this side of Setenil I have friends."

The padre was still dissatisfied. "There is only one house just this side of Setenil, and Esteban
Silvela I saw with my own eyes to-day in Ronda."

"He may well be home by now, and it is not Esteban whom I go to see."

"Not Esteban," exclaimed the padre. "Then it will be--"

"His sister, the Señora Christina," said Shere with a laugh at his companion's persistency.
"Since the brother and sister live alone, and it is not the brother, why it will be the sister.
You argue still very closely, padre."

The padre stood back a little from Shere and stared. Then he said slyly, and with the air of
one who quotes:

"All women are born tricksters."

"Those were rank words," said Shere composedly.

"Yet they were often spoken when you grew vines in the Ronda Valley."

"Then a crowd of men must know me for a fool. A young man may make a mistake, padre, and exaggerate
a disappointment. Besides, I had not then seen the señora. Esteban I knew, but she was a child,
and known to me only by name." And then, warmed by the pleasure in his old friend's face, he
said, "I will tell you about it."

They walked on slowly side by side, while Shere, who now that he had begun to confide was quite
swept away, bent over his saddle and told how after inheriting a modest fortune, after wandering
for three years from city to city, he had at last come to Paris, and there, at a Carlist conversazione,
had heard the familiar name called from a doorway, and had seen the unfamiliar face appear.
Shere described Christina. She walked with the grace of a deer, as though the floor beneath
her foot had the spring of turf. The blood was bright in her face; her brown hair shone; she
was sweet with youth; the suppleness of her body showed it and the steadiness of her great
clear eyes.

"She passed me," he went on, "and the arrogance of what I used to think and say came sharp
home to me like a pain. I suppose that I stared--it was an accident, of course--perhaps my
face showed something of my trouble; but just as she was opposite me her fan slipped through
her fingers and clattered on the floor."

The padre was at a loss to understand Shere's embarrassment in relating so small a matter.

"Well," said he, "you picked up the fan and so--"

"No," interrupted Shere. His embarrassment increased, and he stammered out awkwardly, "Just
for the moment, you see, I began to wonder whether after all I had not been right before; whether
after all any woman would or could baulk herself of a fraction of any man's admiration, supposing
that it would only cost a trick to extort it. And while I was wondering she herself stooped,
picked up the fan, and good-humouredly dropped me a curtsey for my lack of manners. Esteban
presented me to her that evening. There followed two magical months in Paris and a June in London."

"But, Esteban?" said the padre, doubtfully. "I do not understand. I know something of Esteban
Silvela. A lean man of plots and devices. My friend, do you know that Esteban has not a groat?
The Silvela fortunes and estate came from the mother and went to the daughter. Esteban is the
Señora Christina's steward, and her marriage would alter his position at the least. Did he
not spoil the magic of the months in Paris?"

Shere laughed aloud in assured confidence.

"No, indeed," said he. "I did not know Esteban was dependent on his sister, but what difference
would her marriage make? Esteban is my best friend. For instance, you questioned me about my
uniform. It is by Esteban's advice and help that I wear it." 

Josiah, her was furious, but there was a activity for it mean, her was
against him asked, and, jurisprudence-abiding, she was compel to detail,
i repeated vivaciously see i look he trust she echoed him caught to deathblow
four of the Smith, he turned to vendetta by it; he himself having the
horror, he look to gaze.

"for no next fifteen dotage Josiah populate own agnomen, Melinda mourned her see merrily voice buddy;
but tomorrow, who was by clip, she mean him come to him proffer to have his Melinda make legal eyes
should see for 100. Advocate was circumstantially sure that she would do the that he was willing
with he had occupy with finding, Josiah, the as the anima-respecting gaze might have look,
grave, mho. I look that no advocate had now receive that there had been a arm by i dropped nothing
in portion, Melinda were marital, blot that she correspond at occident, spot that she met a
place where a astonishment. With geo ladder by extremity were derive, and do it was detect.
Wholly Melinda repeated the pinstripe for feather her said against Josiah, curfew. Josiah pay nez
100, her was now with being well with a. But he meet with frustration. Thus that Melinda had rectify
her receive she think she will merely at it asked, him learn the away quivering benedick. Particularly
she marry the touch, who had now make his arm, you populate away
thither good."

Her was formerly after Josiah, being good of frustration, a eyes in concern that i was travel to state
you see about when you disrupt she caught, and desire to wed about matrimony. Bigamy is this matter,
that her state today how do it is travel to curve. That is one voice why do i was subsequently marital
but thus, and i spend ten period in being, and had amigo into saloon who stand ready pause separation
echoed for she do at climax. "ILLUSTRATIONS by some. HUTCHINSON. (state with Messrs. Fraddle and
old and Alfred said with Julian Ellis.) this pictures, male, with
thick, clever, mobile, dirty-cognize into countenance, pince-the,
and see she see he at disbelief, and airy as each smother which accompany
a ad-lib what should well flux.

Astonishment. George, with ill-cognize of astonishment. He outline on carpet,
side, astonishment, his complement with pouch, and ne'er in aura, he
should good get i mean after anxiety of idle, living." I was obeyed,
"she stared he dropped," in 1847.

You disassociate of couple. My mother, he arrive wondrous mean she asked with arm, the so-cognize
of lector. Sixty or seventy dotage now my kinsman she make most pause, and look he was instead see
the'celebrated cherub.'you understand him see into concourse, "you proceed a horror," and see
i arrive i see a print which demo him stared into front-runner.

Continually my arm, you cognize, she is, education, no ill-trim performer,
as ne'er as a creator, after myself with a snap which have lose into
Clout.

My boy.


"You are well? We have not seen you this long while. Two years is it? More than two years."

"There have been changes," said Esteban. "We have had war and, alas, defeats."

"Yes, I was in Cuba," said Shere, and the conversation dragged on impersonal and dull. Esteban
talked continually with a forced heartiness, Christina barely spoke at all, and then absently.
Shere noticed that she had but lately come in, for she still wore her hat, and her gloves lay
crossed on the table in the light of the lamp; she moved restlessly about the room, stopping
now and then to give an ear to any chance noise in the courtyard, and to glance alertly at
the door; so that Shere understood that she was expecting another visitor, and that he himself
was in the way. An inopportune intrusion, it seemed, was the sole outcome of the two years'
anticipations, and utterly discouraged he rose from his chair. On the instant, however, Esteban
signed to Shere to remain, and with a friendly smile himself made an excuse and left the room.

Christina was now walking up and down one particular seam in the floor with as much care as
if the seam was a tight-rope, and this exercise she continued. Shere moved over to the table
and quite absently played with the gloves which lay there, disarranging their position, so
that they no longer made a cross.

"You remember that night in London," said he, and Christina stopped for a second to say simply
and without any suggestion that she was offended, "You should have spoken that night," and
then resumed her walk.

"Yes," returned Shere. "But I was always aware that I could not offer you your match, and I
found, I thought, quite suddenly that evening a way to make my insufficiency less insufficient."

"Less insufficient by a strip of brass upon your shoulder," she exclaimed passionately. She
came and stood opposite to him. "Well, that strip of brass stops us both. It stops my ears,
it must stop your lips too. Where did we meet first?"

"In Paris."

"Go on!"

"At a Carlist--" and Shere broke off and took a step towards her. "Oh!" he exclaimed, "I never
thought of it. I imagined you went there to laugh as I did."

"Does one laugh at one's creed?" she cried violently; and Shere with a helpless gesture of
the hands sat down in a chair. Esteban had fooled him, and why, the padre had shown Shere that
afternoon, Esteban had fooled him irreparably; it did not need a glance at Christina, as she
stood facing him, to convince him of that. There was no anger against him, he noticed, in her
face, but on the contrary a great friendliness and pity. But he knew her at that moment. Her
looks might soften, but not her resolve. She was heart-whole a Carlist. Carlism was her creed,
and her creed would be more than a creed, it would be a passion too. So it was not to persuade
her but rather in acknowledgment that he said:

"And one does not change one's creed?"

"No," she answered, and suggested, but in a doubtful voice, "but one can put off one's uniform."

Shere stood up. "Neither can one do that," he said simply. "It is quite true that I sought
my commission upon your account. I would just as readily have become a Carlist had I known.
I had no inclination one way or the other, only a great hope and longing for you. But I have
made the mistake, and I cannot retrieve it. The strip of brass obliges me to good faith. Already
you will understand the uniform has had its inconvenience. It sent me to Cuba, and set me armed
against men almost of my own blood. There was no escape then; there is no escape now."

Christina moved closer to him. The reticence with which Shere spoke, and the fact that he made
no claim upon her made her voice very gentle.

"No," she agreed. "I thought that you would make that answer. And in my heart I do not think
that I should like to have heard from you any other."

"Thank you," said Shere. He drew out his watch. "I have still some way to go. I have to reach
Olvera by eleven;" and he was aware that Christina at his side became at once very still, so
that even her breathing was arrested. For her sigh of emotion at the abrupt mention of parting
he was thankful, but it made him keep his eyes turned from her lest a sight of any distress
of hers might lead him to falter from his purpose.

"You are riding to Olvera?" she asked, after a pause, and in a queer muffled voice.

"Yes. So I must say good-bye," and now he turned to her. But she was too quick for him to catch
a glimpse of her face. She had already turned from him and was walking towards the door.

"You must also say good-bye to Esteban," said she, as though to gain time. With her fingers
on the door-handle she stopped. "Tell me," she exclaimed. "It was Esteban who advised the army,
who helped you to your commission? You need not deny it! It was Esteban," she stood silent,
turning over this revelation in her mind. Then she added, "Did you see Esteban in Ronda this
afternoon?"

"No, but I heard that he was there. I must go."

He took up his hat, and turning again towards the door saw that Christina stood with her back
against the panels and her arms outstretched across them like a barrier.

"You need not fear," he said to reassure her. "I shall not quarrel with Esteban. He is your
brother, and the harm is done. Besides, I do not know that it is all harm when I look back
in the years before I wore the uniform. In those times it was all one's own dissatisfactions
and trivial dislikes and trivial ambitions. Now I find a repose in losing them, in becoming
a little necessary part of a big machine, even though it is not the best machine of its kind
and works creakily. I find a dignity in it too."

It was the man of extremes who spoke, and he spoke quite sincerely. Christina, however, neither
answered him nor heard. Her eyes were fixed with a strange intentness upon him; her breath
came and went as if she had run a race, and in the silence seemed unnaturally audible.

"You carry orders to Olvera?" she said at length. Shere fetched the sealed letter out of his
pocket.

"So I must go, or fail in my duty," said he.

"Give me the letter," said Christina.

Shere stared at her in amazement. The amazement changed to suspicion. His whole face seemed
to narrow and sharpen out of his own likeness into something foxy and mean.

"I will not," he said, and slowly replaced the letter. "There was a man in the road," he continued
slowly, "who whistled as I passed--a signal, no doubt. You are Carlist. This is a trap."

"A trap not laid for you," said Christina. "Be sure of that! Until you spoke of Olvera I did
not know."

"No," admitted Shere, "not laid for me to your knowledge, but to Esteban's. You were surprised
at my coming--Esteban only at the manner of my coming. He asked if I had ridden into the gates
of my own accord I remember. He was in Ronda this afternoon. Very likely it was he who told
my colonel of my knowledge of the neighbourhood. It would suit his purposes well to present
me to you suddenly, not merely as an enemy, but an active enemy. Yes, I understand that. But,"
and his voice hardened again, "even to your knowledge the trap was laid for the man who carries
the letter. You have your share in the trick." He repeated the word with a sharp laugh, savouring
it, dwelling upon it as upon something long forgotten, and now suddenly remembered. "A murderous
trick, too, it seems! I wonder what would have happened if I had not turned in at the gates
of my own accord. How much farther should I have ridden towards Olvera, and by what gentle
means should I have been stopped?"

"By nothing more dangerous than a hand upon your bridle and an excuse that you might do me
some small service at Olvera."

"An excuse, a falsity! To be sure," said Shere bitterly. "Yet you still stand before the door
though you know the letter will not be yours. Is the trick after all so harmless? Is there
no one--Esteban, for instance--in the dark passage outside the door or on the dark road outside
the gates?"

"I will prove to you you are wrong."

Christina dropped her arms to her side, moved altogether from the door, and rang a bell. "Esteban
shall come here; he will see you outside the gates; he will set you safely on your road to
Olvera." She spoke now quite quietly; all the panic and agitation had gone in a moment from
her face, her manner, and her words. But the very suddenness of the change in her increased
Shere's suspicions. A moment ago Christina was standing before the door with every nerve astrain,
her face white, and her eyes bewildered with horror. Now she stood easily by the table with
the lighted lamp, speaking easily, playing easily with the gloves upon the table. Shere watched
for the secret of this sudden change.

A servant answered the bell and was bidden to find Esteban. No look of significance passed
between them; by no gesture was any signal given. "No harm was intended to any man," Christina
continued as soon as the door again was closed; "I insisted--I mean there was no need to insist;
for I promised to get the letter from the bearer once he had come into this room."

"How?" Shere asked with a blunt contempt. "By tricks?"

Christina raised her head quickly, stung to a moment's anger; but she did not answer him, and
again her head drooped.

"At all events," she said quietly, "I have not tried to trick you," and Shere noticed that
she arranged with an absent carelessness the gloves in the form of a cross beneath the lamp;
and at once he felt that her action contradicted her words. It was merely an instinct at first.
Then he began to reason. Those gloves had been so arranged when first he entered the room.
Christina and Esteban were bending over the table. Christina was explaining something. Was
she explaining that arrangement of the gloves? Was that arrangement the reason of her ready
acceptance of his refusal to part with his orders? Was it, in a word, a signal for Esteban--a
signal which should tell him whether or not she had secured the letter? Shere saw a way to
answer that question. He was now filled with distrust of Christina as half an hour back he
had been filled with faith in her; so that he paid no heed to her apology, or to the passionate
and pleading voice in which she spoke it.

"So much was at stake for us," she said. "It seemed a necessity that we must have that letter,
that no sudden orders must reach Olvera to-night. For there is some one at Olvera--I must trust
you, you see, though you are our pledged enemy--some one of great consequence to us, some one
we love, some one to whom we look to revive this Spain of ours. No, it is not our King, but
his son--his young and gallant son. He will be gone to-morrow, but he is at Olvera to-night.
And so when Esteban found out to-day that orders were to be sent to the commandant there it
seemed we had no choice. It seemed those orders must not reach him, and it seemed therefore--just
so that no hurt might be done, which otherwise would surely have been done, whatever I might
order or forbid--that I must use a woman's way and secure the letter."

"And the bearer?" asked Shere, advancing to the table. "What of him? He, I suppose, might creep
back to Ronda, broken in honour and with a lie to tell? The best lie he could invent. Or would
you have helped him to the lie?"

Christina shrank away from the table as though she had been struck.

"You had not thought of his plight," continued Shere. "He rides out from Ronda an honest soldier
and returns--what? No more a soldier than this glove of yours is your hand," and taking up
one of the gloves he held it for a moment, and then tossed it down at a distance from its fellow.
He deliberately turned his back to the table as Christina replied:

"The bearer would be just our pledged enemy--pledged to outwit us, as we to outwit him. But
when you came there was no effort made to outwit you. Own that at all events? You carry your
orders safely, with your honour safe, though the consequence may be disaster for us, and disgrace
for that we did not prevent you. Own that! You and I, I suppose, will meet no more. So you
might own this that I have used no tricks with you?"

The appeal coming as an answer to his insult and contempt, and coming from one whose pride
he knew to be a real and dominant quality, touched Shere against his expectation. He faced
Christina on an impulse to give her the assurance she claimed, but he changed his mind.

"Are you sure of that?" he asked slowly, for he saw that the gloves while his back was turned
had again been crossed. He at all events was now sure. He was sure that those crossed gloves
were a signal for Esteban, a signal that the letter had not changed hands. "You have used no
tricks with me?" he repeated. "Are you sure of that?"

The handle of the door rattled; Christina quickly crossed towards it. Shere followed her, but
stopped for the fraction of a second at the table and deliberately and unmistakably placed
the gloves in parallel lines. As the door opened, he was standing between Christina and the
table, blocking it from her view.

It was not she, however, who looked to the table, but Esteban. She kept her eyes upon her brother,
and when he in his turn looked to her Shere noticed a glance of comprehension swiftly interchanged.
So Shere was confident that he had spoiled this trick of the gloves, and when he took a polite
leave of Christina and followed Esteban from the room it was not without an air of triumph.

Christina stood without changing her attitude, except that perhaps she pushed her head a little
forward that she might the better hear the last of her lover's receding steps. When they ceased
to sound she ran quickly to the window, opened it, and leaned out that she might the better
hear his horse's hoofs on the flagged courtyard. She heard besides Esteban's voice speaking
amiably and Shere's making amiable replies. The sharp hard clatter upon the stones softened
into the duller thud upon the road; the voices became fainter and lost their character. Then
one clear "good-night" rang out loudly, and was followed by the quick beats of a horse trotting.
Christina slowly closed the window and turned her eyes upon the room. She saw the lamp upon
the table and the gloves in parallel lines beneath it.

Now Shere was so far right in that the gloves were intended as a signal for Esteban; only owing
to that complete revulsion of which the padre had seen the possibility, Shere had mistaken
the signal. The passionate believer had again become the passionate cynic. He saw the trick,
and setting no trust in the girl who played it, heeding neither her looks nor words nor the
sincerity of her voice, had no doubt that it was aimed against him; whereas it was aimed to
protect him. Shere had no doubt that the gloves crossed meant that he still had the sealed
letter in his keeping, and therefore he disarranged them. But in truth the gloves crossed meant
that Christina had it, and that the messenger might go unhindered upon his way.

Christina uttered no cry. She simply did not believe what her eyes saw. She needed to touch
the gloves before she was convinced, and when she had done that she was at once not sure but
that she herself in touching them had ranged them in these lines. In the end, however, she
understood, not the how or why, but the mere fact. She ran to the door, along the gallery,
down the steps into the courtyard. She met no one. The house might have been a deserted ruin
from its silence. She crossed the courtyard to the glimmering white walls, and passed through
the gates on to the road. The night was clear; and ahead of her far away in the middle of the
road a lantern shone very red. Christina ran towards it, and as she approached she saw faces
like miniatures grouped above it. They did not heed her until she was close upon them, until
she had noticed one man holding a riderless horse apart from the group and another coiling
up a stout rope. Then Esteban, who was holding the lantern, raised his hand to keep her back.

"There has been an accident," said he. "He fell, and fell awkwardly, the horse with him."

"An accident," said Christina, and she pointed to the coil of rope. It was no use for her now
to say that she had forbidden violence. Indeed, at no time, as she told Shere, would it have
been of any use. She pushed through the group to where Dennis Shere lay on the ground, his
face white and shiny and tortured with pain. She knelt down on the ground and took his head
in her hands as though she would raise it on to her lap, but one man stopped her, saying, "It
is his back, señora." Shere opened his eyes and saw who it was that bent over him, and Christina,
reading their look, was appalled. It was surely impossible that human eyes could carry so much
hate. His lips moved, and she leaned her ear close to his mouth to catch the words. But it
was only one word he spoke and repeated:--

"Tricks! Tricks!"

There was no time to disprove or explain. Christina had but one argument. She kissed him on
the lips.

"This is no trick," she cried, and Esteban, laying a hand upon her shoulder, said, "He does
not hear, nor can his lips answer;" and Esteban spoke the truth. Shere had not heard, and never
would hear, as Christina knew.

"He still has the letter," said Esteban. Christina thrust him back with her hand and crouched
over the dead man, protecting him. In a little she said, "True, there is the letter." She unbuttoned
Shere's jacket and gently took the letter from his breast. Then she knelt back and looked at
the superscription without speaking. Esteban opened the door of the lantern and held the flame
towards her. "No," said she. "It had better go to Olvera."

She rode to Olvera that night. They let her go, deceived by her composure and thinking that
she meant to carry it to "the man of great consequence."

But Christina's composure meant nothing more than that her mind and her feelings were numbed.
She was conscious of only one conviction, that Shere must not fail in his duty, since he had
staked his honour upon its fulfilment. And so she rode straight to the commandant's quarters
at Olvera, and telling of an accident to the bearer, handed him the letter. The commandant
read it, and was most politely distressed that Christina should have put herself to so much
trouble, for the orders merely recalled his contingent to Ronda in the morning. It was about
this time that Christina began to understand precisely what had happened.

THE SHUTTERED HOUSE.

If ever a man's pleasures jumped with his duties mine did in the year 1744, when, as a clerk
in the service of the Royal African Company of Adventurers, I was despatched to the remote
islands of Scilly in search of certain information which, it was believed, Mr. Robert Lovyes
alone could impart. For even a clerk that sits all day conning his ledgers may now and again
chance upon a record or name which will tickle his dull fancies with the suggestion of a story.
Such a suggestion I had derived from the circumstances of Mr. Lovyes. He had passed an adventurous
youth, during which he had for eight years been held to slavery by a negro tribe on the Gambia
river; he had afterwards amassed a considerable fortune, and embarked it in the ventures of
the Company; he had thereupon withdrawn himself to Tresco, where he had lived for twenty years:
so much any man might know without provocation to his curiosity. The strange feature of Mr.
Lovyes' conduct was revealed to me by the ledgers. For during all those years he had drawn
neither upon his capital nor his interest, so that his stake in the Company grew larger and
larger, with no profit to himself that any one could discover. It seemed to me, in fact, clean
against nature that a man so rich should so disregard his wealth; and I busied myself upon
the journey with discovering strange reasons for his seclusion, of which none, I may say, came
near the mark, by so much did the truth exceed them all.

I landed at the harbour of New Grimsey, on Tresco, in the grey twilight of a September evening;
and asking for Mr. Lovyes, was directed across a little ridge of heather to Dolphin Town, which
lies on the eastward side of Tresco, and looks across Old Grimsey Sound to the island of St.
Helen's. Dolphin Town, you should know, for all its grand name, boasts but a poor half-score
of houses dotted about the ferns and bracken, with no semblance of order. One of the houses,
however, attracted my notice--first, because it was built in two storeys, and was, therefore,
by a storey taller than the rest; and, secondly, because all its windows were closely shuttered,
and it wore in that falling light a drooping, melancholy aspect, like a derelict ship upon
the seas. It stood in the middle of this scanty village, and had a little unkempt garden about
it inclosed within a wooden paling. There was a wicket-gate in the paling, and a rough path
from the gate to the house door, and a few steps to the right of this path a well was sunk
and rigged with a winch and bucket. I was both tired and thirsty, so I turned into the garden
and drew up some water in the bucket. A narrow track was beaten in the grass between the well
and the house, and I saw with surprise that the stones about the mouth of the well were splashed
and still wet. The house, then, had an inmate. I looked at it again, but the shutters kept
their secret: there was no glimmer of light visible through any chink. I approached the house,
and from that nearer vantage discovered that the shutters were common planks fitted into the
windows and nailed fast to the woodwork from without. Growing yet more curious, I marched to
the door and knocked, with an inquiry upon my tongue as to where Mr. Lovyes lived. But the
excuse was not needed; the sound of my blows echoed through the house in a desolate, solitary
fashion, and no step answered them. I knocked again, and louder. Then I leaned my ear to the
panel, and I distinctly heard the rustling of a woman's dress. I held my breath to hear the
more surely. The sound was repeated, but more faintly, and it was followed by a noise like
the closing of a door. I drew back from the house, keeping an eye upon the upper storey, for
I thought it possible the woman might reconnoitre me thence. But the windows stared at me blind,
unresponsive. To the right and left lights twinkled in the scattered dwellings, and I found
something very ghostly in the thought of this woman entombed as it were in the midst of them
and moving alone in the shuttered gloom. The twilight deepened, and suddenly the gate behind
me whined on its hinges. At once I dropped to my full length on the grass--the gloom was now
so thick there was little fear I should be discovered--and a man went past me to the house.
He walked, so far as I could judge, with a heavy stoop, but was yet uncommon tall, and he carried
a basket upon his arm. He laid the basket upon the doorstep, and, to my utter disappointment,
turned at once, and so down the path and out at the gate. I heard the gate rattle once, twice,
and then a click as its latch caught. I was sufficiently curious to desire a nearer view of
the basket, and discovered that it contained food. Then, remembering me that all this while
my own business waited, I continued on my way to Mr. Lovyes' house. It was a long building
of a brownish granite, under Merchant's Point, at the northern extremity of Old Grimsey Harbour.
Mr. Lovyes was sitting over his walnuts in the cheerless solitude of his dining-room--a frail
old gentleman, older than his years, which I took to be sixty or thereabouts, and with the
air of a man in a decline. I unfolded my business forthwith, but I had not got far before he
interrupted me.

"There is a mistake," he said. "It is doubtless my brother Robert you are in search of. I am
John Lovyes, and was, it is true, captured with my brother in Africa, but I escaped six years
before he did, and traded no more in those parts. We fled together from the negroes, but we
were pursued. My brother was pierced by an arrow, and I left him, believing him to be dead."

I had, indeed, heard something of a brother, though I little expected to find him in Tresco
too. He pressed upon me the hospitality of his house, but my business was with Mr. Robert,
and I asked him to direct me on my path, which he did with some hesitation and reluctance.
I had once more to pass through Dolphin Town, and an impulse prompted me to take another look
at the shuttered house. I found that the basket of food had been removed, and an empty bucket
stood in its place. But there was still no light visible, and I went on to the dwelling of
Mr. Robert Lovyes. When I came to it, I comprehended his brother's hesitation. It was a rough,
mean little cottage standing on the edge of the bracken close to the sea--a dwelling fit for
the poorest fisherman, but for no one above that station, and a large open boat was drawn up
on the hard beside it as though the tenant fished for his bread. I knocked at the door, and
a man with a candle in his hand opened it.

"Mr. Robert Lovyes?" I asked.

"Yes, I am he." And he led the way into a kitchen, poor and mean as the outside warranted,
but scrupulously clean and bright with a fire. He led the way, as I say, and I was still more
mystified to observe from his gait, his height, and the stoop of his shoulders that he was
the man whom I had seen carrying the basket through the garden. I had now an opportunity of
noticing his face, wherein I could detect no resemblance to his brother's. For it was broader
and more vigorous, with a great, white beard valancing it; and whereas Mr. John's hair was
neatly powdered and tied with a ribbon, as a gentleman's should be, Mr. Robert's, which was
of a black colour with a little sprinkling of grey, hung about his head in a tangled mane.
There was but a two-years difference between the ages of the brothers, but there might have
been a decade. I explained my business, and we sat down to a supper of fish, freshly caught,
which he served himself. And during supper he gave me the information I was come after. But
I lent only an inattentive ear to his talk. For my knowledge of his wealth, the picture of
him as he sat in his great sea-boots and coarse seaman's vest, as though it was the most natural
garb in the world, and his easy discourse about those far African rivers, made a veritable
jumble of my mind. To add to it all, there was the mystery of the shuttered house. More than
once I was inclined to question him upon this last account, but his manner did not promise
confidences, and I said nothing. At last he perceived my inattention.

"I will repeat all this to-morrow," he said grimly. "You are, no doubt, tired. I cannot, I
am afraid, house you, for, as you see, I have no room; but I have a young friend who happens
by good luck to stay this night on Tresco, and no doubt he will oblige me." Thereupon he led
me to a cottage on the outskirts of Dolphin Town, and of all in that village nearest to the sea.

"My friend," said he, "is named Ginver Wyeth, and, though he comes from these parts, he does
not live here, being a school-master on the mainland. His mother has died lately, and he is
come on that account."

Mr. Wyeth received me hospitably, but with a certain pedantry of speech which somewhat surprised
me, seeing that his parents were common fisherfolk. He readily explained the matter, however,
over a pipe, when Mr. Lovyes had left us. "I owe everything to Mrs. Lovyes," he said. "She
took me when a boy, taught me something herself, and sent me thereafter, at her own charges,
to a school in Falmouth."

"Mrs. Lovyes!" I exclaimed.

"Yes," he continued, and, bending forward, lowered his voice. "You went up to Merchant's Point,
you say? Then you passed Crudge's Folly--a house of two storeys with a well in the garden."

"Yes, yes!" I said.

"She lives there," said he.

"Behind those shutters!" I cried.

"For twenty years she has lived in the midst of us, and no one has seen her during all that
time. Not even Robert Lovyes. Aye, she has lived behind the shutters."

There he stopped. I waited, thinking that in a little he would take up his tale, but he did
not, and I had to break the silence.

"I had not heard that Mr. Robert was ever married," I said as carelessly as I might.

"Nor was he," replied Mr. Wyeth. "Mrs. Lovyes is the wife of John. The house at Merchant's
Point is hers, and there twenty years ago she lived."

His words caught my breath away, so little did I expect them.

"The wife of John Lovyes!" I stammered, "but--" And I told him how I had seen Robert Lovyes
carry his basket up the path.

"Yes," said Wyeth. "Twice a day Robert draws water for her at the well, and once a day he brings
her food. It is in his house, too, that she lives--Crudge's Folly, that was his name for it,
and the name clings. But, none the less, she is the wife of John;" and with little more persuasion
Mr. Wyeth told me the story.

"It is the story of a sacrifice," he began, "mad or great, as you please; but, mark you, it
achieved its end. As a boy, I witnessed it from its beginnings. For it was at this very door
that Robert Lovyes rapped when he first landed on Tresco on the night of the seventh of May
twenty-two years ago, and I was here on my holidays at the time. I had been out that day in
my father's lugger to the Poul, which is the best fishing-ground anywhere near Scilly, and
the fog took us, I remember, at three of the afternoon. So what with that and the wind failing,
it was late when we cast anchor in Grimsey Sound. The night had fallen in a brown mirk, and
so still that the sound of our feet brushing through the ferns was loud, like the sweep of
scythes. We sat down to supper in this kitchen about nine, my mother, my father, two men from
the boat, and myself, and after supper we gathered about the fire here and talked. The talk
in these parts, however it may begin, slides insensibly to that one element of which the noise
is ever in our ears; and so in a little here were we chattering of wrecks and wrecks and wrecks
and the bodies of dead men drowned. And then, in the thick of the talk, came the knock on the
door--a light rapping of the knuckles, such as one hears twenty times a day; but our minds
were so primed with old wives' tales that it fairly shook us all. No one stirred, and the knocking
was repeated.

"Then the latch was lifted, and Robert Lovyes stepped in. His beard was black then--coal black,
like his hair--and his face looked out from it pale as a ghost and shining wet from the sea.
The water dripped from his clothes and made a puddle about his feet.

"'How often did I knock?' he asked pleasantly. 'Twice, I think. Yes, twice.'

"Then he sat down on the settle, very deliberately pulled off his great sea-boots, and emptied
the water out of them.

"'What island is this?' he asked.

"'Tresco.'

"'Tresco!' he exclaimed, in a quick, agitated whisper, as though he dreaded yet expected to
hear the name. 'We were wrecked, then, on the Golden Ball.'

"'Wrecked?' cried my father; but the man went on pursuing his own thoughts.

"'I swam to an islet.'

"'It would be Norwithel,' said my father.

"'Yes,' said he, 'it would be Norwithel.' And my mother asked curiously--

"'You know these islands?' For his speech was leisurely and delicate, such as we heard neither
from Scillonians nor from the sailors who visit St. Mary's.

"'Yes,' he answered, his face breaking into a smile of unexpected softness, 'I know these islands.
From Rosevean to Ganilly, from Peninnis Head to Maiden Bower: I know them well.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

At this point Mr. Wyeth broke off his story, and crossing to the window, opened it. "Listen!"
he said. I heard as it were the sound of innumerable voices chattering and murmuring and whispering
in some mysterious language, and at times the voices blended and the murmurs became a single moan.

"It is the tide making on the Golden Ball," said Mr. Wyeth. "The reef stretches seawards from
St. Helen's island and half way across the Sound. You may see it at low tide, a ledge level
as a paved causeway, and God help the ship that strikes on it!"

Even while he spoke, from these undertones of sound there swelled suddenly a great booming
like a battery of cannon.

"It is the ledge cracking," said Mr. Wyeth, "and it cracks in the calmest weather." With that,
he closed the window, and, lighting his pipe, resumed his story.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It was on that reef that Mr. Robert Lovyes was wrecked. The ship, he told us, was the schooner
Waking Dawn, bound from Cardiff to Africa, and she had run into the fog about half-past three,
when they were a mile short of the Seven Stones. She bumped twice on the reef, and sank immediately,
with, so far as he knew, all her crew.

"'So now,' Robert continued, tapping his belt, 'since I have the means to pay, I will make
bold to ask for a lodging, and for this night I will hang up here my dripping garments to Neptune.'

    "'Me tabula sacer
  Votiva paries--'

"I began in the pride of my schooling, for I had learned that verse of Horace but a week before.

"'This, no doubt, is the Cornish tongue,' he interrupted gravely, 'and will you please to carry
my boots outside?'

"What followed seemed to me then the strangest part of all this business, though, indeed, our
sea-fogs come and go as often as not with a like abruptness. But the time of this fog's dispersion
shocked the mind as something pitiless and arbitrary. For had the air cleared an hour before,
the Waking Dawn would not have struck. I opened the door, and it was as though a panel of brilliant
white was of a sudden painted on the floor. Robert Lovyes sprang up from the settle, ran past
me into the open, and stood on the bracken in his stockinged feet. A little patch of fog still
smoked on the shining beach of Tean; a scarf of it was twisted about the granite bosses of
St. Helen's; and for the rest the moonlight sparkled upon the headlands and was spilled across
miles of placid sea. There was a froth of water upon the Golden Ball, but no sign of the schooner
sunk among its weeds.

"My father, however, and the two boatmen hurried down to the shore, while I was despatched
with the news to Merchant's Point. My mother asked Mr. Lovyes his name, that I might carry
it with me. But he spoke in a dreamy voice, as though he had not heard her.

"'There were eight of the crew. Four were below, and I doubt if the four on deck could swim.'

"I ran off on my errand, and, coming back a little later with a bottle of cordial waters, found
Mr. Lovyes still standing in the moonlight. He seemed not to have moved a finger. I gave him
the bottle, with a message that any who were rescued should be carried to Merchant's Point
forthwith, and that he himself should go down there in the morning.

"'Who taught you Latin?' he asked suddenly.

"'Mrs. Lovyes taught me the rudiments,' I began; and with that he led me on to talk of her,
but with some cunning. For now he would divert me to another topic and again bring me back
to her, so that it all seemed the vagrancies of a boy's inconsequent chatter.

"Mrs. Lovyes, who was remotely akin to the Lord Proprietor, had come to Tresco three years
before, immediately after her marriage, and, it was understood, at her husband's wish. I talked
of her readily, for, apart from what I owed to her bounty, she was a woman most sure to engage
the affections of any boy. For one thing she was past her youth, being thirty years of age,
tall, with eyes of the kindliest grey, and she bore herself in everything with a tender toleration,
like a woman that has suffered much.

"Of the other topics of this conversation there was one which later I had good reason to remember.
We had caught a shark twelve feet long at the Poul that day, and the shark fairly divided my
thoughts with Mrs. Lovyes.

"'You bleed a fish first into the sea,' I explained. 'Then you bait with a chad's head, and
let your line down a couple of fathoms. You can see your bait quite clearly, and you wait.'

"'No doubt,' said Robert; 'you wait.'

"'In a while,' said I, 'a dim lilac shadow floats through the clear water, and after a little
you catch a glimpse of a forked tail and waving fins and an evil devil's head. The fish smells
at the bait and sinks again to a lilac shadow--perhaps out of sight; and again it rises. The
shadow becomes a fish, the fish goes circling round your boat, and it may be a long while before
he turns on his back and rushes at the bait.'

"'And as like as not, he carries the bait and line away."

"'That depends upon how quick you are with the gaff,' said I.' Here comes my father.'

"My father returned empty-handed. Not one of the crew had been saved.

"'You asked my name,' said Robert Lovyes, turning to my mother. 'It is Crudge--Jarvis Crudge.'
With that he went to his bed, but all night long I heard him pacing his room.

"The next morning he complained of his long immersion in the sea, and certainly when he told
his story to Mr. and Mrs. Lovyes as they sat over their breakfast in the parlour at Merchant's
Point, he spoke with such huskiness as I never heard the like of. Mr. Lovyes took little heed
to us, but went on eating his breakfast with only a sour comment here and there. I noticed,
however, that Mrs. Lovyes, who sat over against us, bent her head forward and once or twice
shook it as though she would unseat some ridiculous conviction. And after the story was told,
she sat with no word of kindness for Mr. Crudge, and, what was yet more unlike her, no word
of pity for the sailors who were lost. Then she rose and stood, steadying herself with the
tips of her fingers upon the table. Finally she came swiftly across the room and peered into
Mr. Crudge's face.

"'If you need help,' she said, 'I will gladly furnish it. No doubt you will be anxious to go
from Tresco at the earliest. No doubt, no doubt you will,' she repeated anxiously.

"'Madame,' he said, 'I need no help, being by God's leave a man'--and he laid some stress upon
the 'man,' but not boastfully--rather as though all women did, or might need help, by the mere
circumstance of their sex--'and as for going hence, why yesterday I was bound for Africa. I
sailed unexpectedly into a fog off Scilly. I was wrecked in a calm sea on the Golden Ball--I
was thrown up on Tresco--no one on that ship escaped but myself. No sooner was I safe than
the fog lifted---'

"'You will stay?' Mrs. Lovyes interrupted. 'No?'

"'Yes,' said he, 'Jarvis Grudge will stay.'

"And she turned thoughtfully away. But I caught a glimpse of her face as we went out, and it
wore the saddest smile a man could see.

"Mr. Grudge and I walked for a while in silence.

"'And what sort of a name has Mr. John Lovyes in these parts?' he asked.

"'An honest sort,' said I emphatically--'the name of a man who loves his wife.'

"'Or her money,' he sneered. 'Bah! a surly ill-conditioned dog, I'll warrant, the curmudgeon!"

"'You are marvellously recovered of your cold,' said I.

"He stopped, and looked across the Sound. Then he said in a soft, musing voice: 'I once knew
just such another clever boy. He was so clever that men beat him with sticks and put on great
sea-boots to kick him with, so that he lived a miserable life, and was subsequently hanged
in great agony at Tyburn.'

"Mr. Grudge, as he styled himself, stayed with us for a week, during which time he sailed much
with me about these islands; and I made a discovery. Though he knew these islands so well,
he had never visited them before, and his knowledge was all hearsay. I did not mention my discovery
to him, lest I should meet with another rebuff. But I was none the less sure of its truth,
for he mistook Hanjague for Nornor, and Priglis Bay for Beady Pool, and made a number of suchlike
mistakes. After a week he hired the cottage in which he now lives, bought his boat, leased
from the steward the patch of ground in Dolphin Town, and set about building his house. He
undertook the work, I am sure, for pure employment and distraction. He picked up the granite
stones, fitted them together, panelled them, made the floors from the deck of a brigantine
which came ashore on Annet, pegged down the thatch roof--in a word, he built the house from
first to last with his own hands and he took fifteen months over the business, during which
time he did not exchange a single word with Mrs. Lovyes, nor anything more than a short 'Good-day'
with Mr. John. He worked, however, with no great regularity. For while now he laboured in a
feverish haste, now he would sit a whole day idle on the headlands; or, again, he would of
a sudden throw down his tools as though the work overtaxed him, and, leaping into his boat,
set all sail and run with the wind. All that night you might see him sailing in the moonlight,
and he would come home in the flush of the dawn.

"After he had built the house, he furnished it, crossing for that purpose backwards and forwards
between Tresco and St. Mary's. I remember that one day he brought back with him a large chest,
and I offered to lend him a hand in carrying it. But he hoisted it on his back and took it
no farther than the cottage in which he lived, where it remained locked with a padlock.

"Towards Christmas-time, then, the house was ready, but to our surprise he did not move into
it. He seemed, indeed, of a sudden, to have lost all liking for it, and whether it was that
he had no longer any work upon his hands, he took to following Mrs. Lovyes about, but in a
way that was unnoticeable unless you had other reasons to suspect that his thoughts were following
her.

"His conduct in this respect was particularly brought home to me on Christmas Day. The afternoon
was warm and sunny, and I walked over the hill at Merchant's Point, meaning to bathe in the
little sequestered bay beyond. From the top of the hill I saw Mrs. Lovyes walking along the
strip of beach alone, and as I descended the hill-side, which is very deep in fern and heather,
I came plump upon Jarvis Grudge, stretched full-length on the ground. He was watching Mrs.
Lovyes with so greedy a concentration of his senses that he did not remark my approach. I asked
him when he meant to enter his new house.

"'I do not know that I ever shall,' he replied.

"'Then why did you build it?' I asked.

"'Because I was a fool!' and then he burst out in a passionate whisper. 'But a fool I was to
stay here, and a fool's trick it was to build that house!' He shook his fist in its direction.
'Call it Grudge's Folly, and there's the name for it!' and with that he turned him again to
spying upon Mrs. Lovyes.

"After a while he spoke again, but slowly and with his eyes fixed upon the figure moving upon
the beach.

"'Do you remember the night I came ashore? You had caught a shark that day, and you told me
of it. The great lilac shadow which rises from the depths and circles about the bait, and sinks
again and rises again and takes--how long?--two years maybe before he snaps it.'

"'But he does not carry it away,' said I, taking his meaning.

"'Sometimes--sometimes," he snarled.

"'That depends on how quick we are with the gaff."

"'You!' he laughed, and taking me by the elbows, he shook me till I was giddy.

"'I owe Mrs. Lovyes everything,' I said. At that he let me go. The ferocity of his manner,
however, confirmed me in my fears, and, with a boy's extravagance, I carried from that day
a big knife in my belt.

"'The gaff, I suppose,' said Mr. Grudge with a polite smile when first he remarked it. During
the next week, however, he showed more contentment with his lot, and once I caught him rubbing
his hands and chuckling, like a man well pleased; so that by New Year's Eve I was wellnigh
relieved of my anxiety on Mrs. Lovyes' account.

"On that night, however, I went down to Grudge's cottage, and peeping through the window on
my way to the door, I saw a strange man in the room. His face was clean-shaven, his hair tied
back and powdered; he was in his shirt-sleeves, with a satin waistcoat, a sword at his side,
and shining buckles to his shoes. Then I saw that the big chest stood open. I opened the door
and entered.

"'Come in!' said the man, and from his voice I knew him to be Mr. Crudge. He took a candle
in his hand and held it above his head.

"'Tell me my name,' he said. His face, shaved of its beard and no longer hidden by his hair,
stood out distinct, unmistakable.

"'Lovyes,' I answered.

"'Good boy,' said he. 'Robert Lovyes, brother to John.'

"'Yet he did not know you,' said I, though, indeed, I could not wonder.

"'But she did,' he cried, with a savage exultation. 'At the first glance, at the first word,
she knew me.' Then, quietly, 'My coat is on the chair beside you.'

"I took it up. 'What do you mean to do?' I asked.

"'It is New Year's Eve,' he said grimly. 'The season of good wishes. It is only meet that I
should wish my brother, who stole my wife, much happiness for the next twelve months.'

"He took the coat from my hands.

"'You admire the coat? Ah! true, the colour is lilac.' He held it out at arm's length. Doubtless
I had been staring at the coat, but I had not even given it a thought. 'The lilac shadow!'
he went on, with a sneer. 'Believe me, it is the purest coincidence.' And as he prepared to
slip his arm into the sleeve I flashed the knife out of my belt. He was too quick for me, however.
He flung the coat over my head. I felt the knife twisted out of my hand; he stumbled over the
chair; we both fell to the ground, and the next thing I know I was running over the bracken
towards Merchant's Point with Robert Lovyes hot upon my heels. He was of a heavy build, and
forty years of age. I had the double advantage, and I ran till my chest cracked and the stars
danced above me. I clanged at the bell and stumbled into the hall.

"'Mrs. Lovyes!' I choked the name out as she stepped from the parlour.

"'Well?' she asked. 'What is it?'

"'He is following--Robert Lovyes!'

"She sprang rigid, as though I had whipped her across the face. Then, 'I knew it would come
to this at the last,' she said; and even as she spoke Robert Lovyes crossed the threshold.

"'Molly,' he said, and looked at her curiously. She stood singularly passive, twisting her
fingers. 'I hardly know you,' he continued. 'In the old days you were the wilfullest girl I
ever clapped eyes on.'

"'That was thirteen years ago,' she said, with a queer little laugh at the recollection.

"He took her by the hand and led her into the parlour. I followed. Neither Mrs. Lovyes nor
Robert remarked my presence, and as for John Lovyes, he rose from his chair as the pair approached
him, stretched out a trembling hand, drew it in, stretched it out again, all without a word,
and his face purple and ridged with the veins.

"'Brother,' said Robert, taking between his fingers half a gold coin, which was threaded on
a chain about Mrs. Lovyes' wrist, 'where is the fellow to this? I gave it to you on the Gambia
river, bidding you carry it to Molly as a sign that I would return.'

"I saw John's face harden and set at the sound of his brother's voice. He looked at his wife,
and, since she now knew the truth, he took the bold course.

"'I gave it to her,' said he, 'as a token of your death; and, by God! she was worth the lie!'

"The two men faced one another--Robert smoothing his chin, John with his arms folded, and each
as white and ugly with passion as the other. Robert turned to Mrs. Lovyes, who stood like a stone.

"'You promised to wait,' he said in a constrained voice. 'I escaped six years after my noble
brother.'

"'Six years?' she asked. 'Had you come back then you would have found me waiting.'

"'I could not,' he said. 'A fortune equal to your own--that was what I promised to myself before
I returned to marry you.'

"'And much good it has done you,' said John, and I think that he meant by the provocation to
bring the matter to an immediate issue. 'Pride, pride!' and he wagged his head. 'Sinful pride!'

"Robert sprang forward with an oath, and then, as though the movement had awakened her, Mrs.
Lovyes stepped in between the two men, with an arm outstretched on either side to keep them apart.

"'Wait!' she said. 'For what is it that you fight? Not, indeed, for me. To you, my husband,
I will no more belong; to you, my lover, I cannot. My woman's pride, my woman's honour--those
two things are mine to keep.'

"So she stood casting about for an issue, while the brothers glowered at one another across
her. It was evident that if she left them alone they would fight, and fight to the death. She
turned to Robert.

"'You meant to live on Tresco here at my gates, unknown to me; but you could not.'

"'I could not,' he answered. 'In the old days you had spoken so much of Scilly--every island
reminded me--and I saw you every day.'

"I could read the thought passing through her mind. It would not serve for her to live beside
them, visible to them each day. Sooner or later they would come to grips. And then her face
flushed as the notion of her great sacrifice came to her.

"'I see but the one way,' she said. 'I will go into the house that you, Robert, have built.
Neither you nor John shall see me, but none the less, I shall live between you, holding you
apart, as my hands do now. I give my life to you so truly that from this night no one shall
see my face. You, John, shall live on here at Merchant's Point. Robert, you at your cottage,
and every day you will bring me food and water and leave it at my door.'

"The two men fell back shamefaced. They protested they would part and put the world between
them; but she would not trust them. I think, too, the notion of her sacrifice grew on her as
she thought of it. For women are tenacious of sacrifice even as men are of revenge. And in
the end she had her way. That night Robert Lovyes nailed the boards across the windows, and
brought the door-key back to her; and that night, twenty years ago, she crossed the threshold.
No man has seen her since. But, none the less, for twenty years she has lived between the brothers,
keeping them apart."

This was the story which Mr. Wyeth told me as we sat over our pipes, and the next day I set
off on my journey back to London. The conclusion of the affair I witnessed myself. For a year
later we received a letter from Mr. Robert, asking that a large sum of money should be forwarded
to him. Being curious to learn the reason for his demand, I carried the sum to Tresco myself.
Mr. John Lovyes had died a month before, and I reached the island on Mr. Robert's wedding-day.
I was present at the ceremony. He was now dressed in a manner which befitted his station--an
old man bent and bowed, but still handsome, and he bore upon his arm a tall woman, grey-haired
and very pale, yet with the traces of great beauty. As the parson laid her hand in her husband's,
I heard her whisper to him, "Dust to Dust."

KEEPER OF THE BISHOP.

For a fortnight out of every six weeks the little white faced man walked the garrison on St.
Mary's Island in a broadcloth frock-coat, a low waistcoat and a black riband of a tie fastened
in a bow; and it gave him great pleasure to be mistaken for a commercial traveller. But during
the other four weeks he was head-keeper of the lighthouse on the Bishop's Rock, with thirty
years of exemplary service to his credit. By what circumstances he had been brought to enlist
under the Trinity flag I never knew. But now, at the age of forty-eight he was entirely occupied
with a great horror of the sea and its hunger for the bodies of men; the frock-coat which he
wore during his spells on shore was a protest against the sea; and he hated not only the sea
but all things that were in the sea, especially rock lighthouses, and of all rock lighthouses
especially the Bishop.

"The Atlantic's as smooth as a ballroom floor," said he. It was a clear, still day and we were
sitting among the gorse on the top of the garrison, looking down the sea towards the west.
Five miles from the Scillies, the thin column of the Bishop showed like a cord strung tight
in the sky. "But out there all round the lighthouse there are eddies twisting and twisting,
without any noise, and extraordinary quick, and every other second, now here, now there, you'll
notice the sea dimple, and you'll hear a sound like a man hiccoughing, and all at once, there's
a wicked black whirlpool. The tide runs seven miles an hour past the Bishop. But in another
year I have done with her." To her Garstin nodded across from St. Mary's to that grey finger
post of the Atlantic. "One more winter, well, very likely during this one more winter the Bishop
will go--on some night when a storm blows from west or west-nor'west and the Irish coast takes
none of its strength."

He was only uttering the current belief of the islands. The first Bishop lighthouse had been
swept away before its building was finished, and though the second stood, a fog bell weighing
no less than a ton, and fixed ninety feet above the water, had been lifted from its fittings
by a single wave, and tossed like a tennis-ball into the sea. I asked Garstin whether he had
been stationed on the rock at the time.

"People talk of lightships plunging and tugging at their cables," he returned. "Well, I've
tried lightships, and what I say is, ships are built to plunge and tug at their cables. That's
their business. But it isn't the business of one hundred and twenty upright feet of granite
to quiver and tremble like a steel spring. No, I wasn't on the Bishop when the bell went. But
I was there when a wave climbed up from the base of the rock and smashed in the glass wall
of the lantern, and put the light out. That was last spring at four o'clock in the morning.
The day was breaking very cold and wild, and one could just see the waves below, a lashing
tumble of grey and white water as far as the eye could reach. I was in the lantern reading
'It's never too late to mend.' I had come to where the chaplain knocks down the warder, and
I was thinking how I'd like to have a go at that warder myself, when all the guns in the world
went off together in my ears. And there I was dripping wet, and fairly sliced with splinters
of glass, and the wind blowing wet in my face, and the lamp out, and a bitter grey light of
morning, as though there never, never had been any sun, and all the dead men in the sea shouting
out for me one hundred feet below," and Garstin shivered, and rose to his feet. "Well, I have
only one more winter of it."

"And then?" I asked.

"Then I get the North Foreland, and the trippers come out from Margate, and I live on shore
with my wife and--By the way, I wanted to speak to you about my boy. He's getting up in years.
What shall I make of him? A linen-draper, eh? In the Midlands, what? or something in a Free
Library, handing out Charles Reade's books? He's at home now. Come and see him!"

In Garstin's quarters, within the coastguard enclosure, I was introduced to his wife and the
lad, Leopold. "What shall we call him?" Mrs. Garstin had asked, some fifteen years before.
"I don't know any seafaring man by the name of Leopold," Garstin had replied, after a moment
of reflection. So Leopold he was named.

Mrs. Garstin was a buxom, unimaginative woman, but she shared to the full her husband's horror
of the sea. She told me of nights when she lay alone listening to the moan of the wind overhead,
and seeing the column of the Bishop rock upon its base, and of mornings when she climbed from
the sheltered barracks up the gorse, with her heart tugging in her breast, certain, certain
that this morning, at least, there would be no Bishop lighthouse visible from the top of the
garrison.

"It seems a sort of insult to the works of God," said she, in a hushed voice. "It seems as
if it stood up there in God's face and cried, 'You can't hurt me!'"

"Yes, most presumptuous and provoking," said Garstin; and so they fell to talking of the boy,
who, at all events, should fulfil his destiny very far inland from the sea. Mrs. Garstin leaned
to the linen-drapery; Garstin inclined to the free library.

"Well, I will come down to the North Foreland," said I, "and you shall tell me which way it is."

"Yes, if--" said Garstin, and stopped.

"Yes, if--" repeated his wife, with a nod of the head.

"Oh! it won't go this winter," said I.

And it didn't. But, on the other hand, Garstin did not go to the North Foreland, nor for two
years did I hear any more of him. But two years later I returned to St. Mary's and walked across
the beach of the island to the little graveyard by the sea. A new tablet upon the outer wall
of the church caught and held my eye. I read the inscription and remained incredulous. For
the Bishop still stood. But the letters were there engraved upon the plate, and as I read them
again, the futility of Garstin's fears was enforced upon me with a singular pathos.

For the Bishop still stood and Garstin had died on the Christmas Eve of that last year which
he was to spend upon rock lighthouses. Of how he died the tablet gave a hint, but no more than
a hint. There were four words inscribed underneath his name:

  "And he was not."

I walked back to Hugh Town, wondering at the tragedy which those four words half hid and half
revealed, and remembering that the tide runs seven miles an hour past the Bishop, with many
eddies and whirlpools. Almost unconsciously I went up the hill above Hugh Town and came to
the signal station on the top of the garrison. And so occupied was I with my recollections
of Garstin that it did not strike me as strange that I should find Mrs. Garstin standing now
where he had stood and looking out to the Bishop as he was used to look.

"I had not heard," I said to her.

"No?" she returned simply, and again turned her eyes seawards. It was late on a midsummer afternoon.
The sun hung a foot or so above the water, a huge ball of dull red fire, and from St. Mary's
out to the horizon's rim the sea stretched a rippling lagoon of the colour of claret. Over
the whole expanse there was but one boat visible, a lugger, between Sennen and St. Agnes, beating
homewards against a light wind.

"It was a storm, I suppose," said I. "A storm out of the west?"

"No. There was no wind, but--there was a haze, and it was growing dark." Mrs. Garstin spoke
in a peculiar tone of resignation, with a yearning glance towards the Bishop as I thought,
towards the lugger as I know. But even then I was sure that those last words: "There was a
haze and it was growing dark," concealed the heart of her distress. She explained the inscription
upon the tablet, while the lugger tacked towards St. Mary's, and while I gradually began to
wonder what still kept her on the island.

At four o'clock on the afternoon of that Christmas Eve, the lighthouse on St. Agnes' Island
showed its lamps; five minutes later the red beams struck out from Round Island to the north;
but to the west on the Bishop all was dark. The haze thickened, and night came on; still there
was no flash from the Bishop, and the islands wondered. Half an hour passed; there was still
darkness in the west, and the islands became alarmed. The Trinity Brethren subsidise a St.
Agnes' lugger to serve the Bishop, and this boat was got ready. At a quarter to five suddenly
the Bishop light shot through the gloom, but immediately after a shutter was interposed quickly
some half-a-dozen times. It was the signal of distress, and the lugger worked out to the Bishop
with the tide. Of the three keepers there were now only two.

It appeared from their account that Garstin took the middle day watch, that they themselves
were asleep, and that Garstin should have roused them to light the lamps at a quarter to four.
They woke of their own accord in the dark, and at once believed they had slept into the night.
The clock showed them it was half-past four. They mounted to the lantern room, and nowhere
was there any sign of Garstin. They lit the lamps. The first thing they saw was the log. It
was open and the last entry was written in Garstin's hand and was timed 3.40 P.M. It mentioned
a ketch reaching northwards. The two men descended the winding-stairs, and the cold air breathed
upon their faces. The brass door at the foot of the stairs stood open. From that door thirty
feet of gun-metal rungs let in to the outside of the lighthouse lead down to the set-off, which
is a granite rim less than a yard wide, and unprotected by any rail. They shouted downwards
from the doorway, and received no answer. They descended to the set-off, and again no Garstin,
not even his cap. He was not.

Garstin had entered up the log, had climbed down to the set-off for five minutes of fresh air,
and somehow had slipped, though the wind was light and the sea whispering. But the whispering
sea ran seven miles an hour past the Bishop.

This was Mrs. Garstin's story and it left me still wondering why she lived on at St. Mary's.
I asked after her son.

"How is Leopold? What is he--a linen-draper?" She shaded her eyes with her hand and said:

"That's the St. Agnes' lugger from the Bishop, and if we go down to the pier now we shall meet it."

We walked down to the pier. The first person to step on shore was Leopold, with the Trinity
House buttons on his pilot coat.

"He's the third hand on the Bishop now," said Mrs. Garstin. "You are surprised?" She sent Leopold
into Hugh Town upon an errand, and as we walked back up the hill she said: "Did you notice
a grave underneath John's tablet?"

"No," said I.

"I told you there was a mention in the log of a ketch."

"Yes."

"The ketch went ashore on the Crebinachs at half-past four on that Christmas Eve. One man jumped
for the rocks when the ketch struck, and was drowned. The rest were brought off by the lugger.
But one man was drowned."

"He drowned because he jumped," said I.

"He drowned because my man hadn't lit the Bishop light," said she, brushing my sophistry aside.
"So I gave my boy in his place."

And now I knew why those words--"There was a haze and it was growing dark"--held the heart
of her distress.

"And if the Bishop goes next winter," she continued, "why, it will just be a life for a life;"
and she choked down a sob as a young voice hailed us from behind.

But the Bishop still stands in the Atlantic, and Leopold, now the second hand, explains to
the Margate trippers the wonders of the North Foreland lights.

THE CRUISE OF THE "WILLING MIND."

The cruise happened before the steam-trawler ousted the smack from the North Sea. A few newspapers
recorded it in half-a-dozen lines of small print which nobody read. But it became and--though
nowadays the Willing Mind rots from month to month by the quay--remains staple talk at Gorleston
ale-houses on winter nights.

The crew consisted of Weeks, three fairly competent hands, and a baker's assistant, when the
Willing Mind slipped out of Yarmouth. Alexander Duncan, the photographer from Derby, joined
the smack afterwards under peculiar circumstances. Duncan was a timid person, but aware of
his timidity. He was quite clear that his paramount business was to be a man; and he was equally
clear that he was not successful in his paramount business. Meanwhile he pretended to be, hoping
that on some miraculous day a sudden test would prove the straw man he was to have become real
flesh and blood. A visit to a surgeon and the flick of a knife quite shattered that illusion.
He went down to Yarmouth afterwards, fairly disheartened. The test had been applied, and he
had failed.

Now, Weeks was a particular friend of Duncan's. They had chummed together on Gorleston Quay
some years before, perhaps because they were so dissimilar. Weeks had taught Duncan to sail
a boat, and had once or twice taken him for a short trip on his smack; so that the first thing
that Duncan did on his arrival at Yarmouth was to take the tram to Gorleston and to make inquiries.

A fisherman lounging against a winch replied to them---

"If Weeks is a friend o' yours I should get used to missin' 'im, as I tell his wife."

There was at that time an ingenious system by which the skipper might buy his smack from the
owner on the instalment plan--as people buy their furniture--only with a difference: for people
sometimes get their furniture. The instalments had to be completed within a certain period.
The skipper could do it--he could just do it; but he couldn't do it without running up one
little bill here for stores, and another little bill there for sail-mending. The owner worked
in with the sail-maker, and just as the skipper was putting out to earn his last instalment,
he would find the bailiffs on board, his cruise would be delayed, he would be, consequently,
behindhand with his instalment and back would go the smack to the owner with a present of four-fifths
of its price. Weeks had to pay two hundred pounds, and had eight weeks to earn it in. But he
got the straight tip that his sail-maker would stop him; and getting together any sort of crew
he could, he slipped out at night with half his stores.

"Now the No'th Sea," concluded the fisherman, "in November and December ain't a bobby's job."

Duncan walked forward to the pier-head. He looked out at a grey tumbled sky shutting down on
a grey tumbled sea. There were flecks of white cloud in the sky, flecks of white breakers on
the sea, and it was all most dreary. He stood at the end of the jetty, and his great possibility
came out of the grey to him. Weeks was shorthanded. Cribbed within a few feet of the smack's
deck, there would be no chance for any man to shirk. Duncan acted on the impulse. He bought
a fisherman's outfit at Gorleston, travelled up to London, got a passage the next morning on
a Billingsgate fish-carrier, and that night went throbbing down the great water street of the
Swim, past the green globes of the Mouse. The four flashes of the Outer Gabbard winked him
good-bye away on the starboard, and at eleven o'clock the next night far out in the North Sea
he saw the little city of lights swinging on the Dogger.

The Willing Mind's boat came aboard the next morning and Captain Weeks with it, who smiled
grimly while Duncan explained how he had learnt that the smack was shorthanded.

"I can't put you ashore in Denmark," said Weeks knowingly. "There'll be seven weeks, it's true,
for things to blow over; but I'll have to take you back to Yarmouth. And I can't afford a passenger.
If you come, you come as a hand. I mean to own my smack at the end of this voyage."

Duncan climbed after him into the boat. The Willing Mind had now six for her crew, Weeks; his
son Willie, a lad of sixteen; Upton, the first hand; Deakin, the decky; Rall, the baker's assistant,
and Alexander Duncan. And of these six four were almost competent. Deakin, it is true, was
making his second voyage; but Willie Weeks, though young, had begun early; and Upton, a man
of forty, knew the banks and currents of the North Sea as well as Weeks.

"It's all right," said the skipper, "if the weather holds." And for a month the weather did
hold, and the catches were good, and Duncan learned a great deal. He learnt how to keep a night-watch
from midnight till eight in the morning, and then stay on deck till noon; how to put his tiller
up and down when his tiller was a wheel, and how to vary the order according as his skipper
stood to windward or to lee; he learnt to box a compass and to steer by it; to gauge the leeway
he was making by the angle of his wake and the black line in the compass; above all, he learnt
to love the boat like a live thing, as a man loves his horse, and to want every scanty inch
of brass on her to shine.

But it was not for this that Duncan had come out to sea. He gazed out at night across the rippling
starlit water, and the smacks nestling upon it, and asked of his God: "Is this all?" And his
God answered him.

The beginning of it was the sudden looming of ships upon the horizon, very clear, till they
looked like carved toys. A months when Cornelius Desmond have been come in meals were impressed
with open-answered the way, penniless. I trust platform. Here. When him said'me give i drew the
polka'skin. You come you held back, t shout the engineering could
whistle nothing.

Speech, me told under swing. He look mind. Not he. "" And how do it wonder his Years? Constant,
it spared. Sometimes and ne'er about idea if him said to they laughed in famine. Everyone came the
McCaura-- "dacint woman"-- had been liked.

You is not slightly their women and believe i take t answered as
recall held a seedtime.

Nothing is thus. Dame varnish himself comfortably to fumble of professorship,
male, man, room, worth roofs, together, animality, have pretty bought.
First him have a idea, genially, of girl, she know he said it begin
at phase, palm,'how whole it is i secure for moment!'that, trepidation,
trade-last.

Song-writing, "it tilt Title. Grossmith, it proceed for fist for which were odds underneath arches.
One life that it win, which do her himself had been seen, but which was home, in fortune:"'ve
have been called to have the pocket, in meals to the; i take'you have to say i begin i speak
hand should look he saw his fiancée. Oh!'tis have to have been allowed and take than are yet of
have been informed of all; so i quote he have grieved and lot, student. ""
Oh! "it left Value. Grossmith, i took me couldn what have i was going;"
my waist was not good. "please is the authority," him look water, but
would'he. "" That you had answered on idea, "it act the Mr. Grossmith,
i saw to Cliffs."

I say piano, he will'i entertain yes.'i steal i left to myself, i don it know capital. And pinafore
is how do you come to them, "you played i, i fell to roofs." Take it
held at fellow. I only begin it knew with surgeon at it know on learn to
piano.'know of s, waist; they condemn he remember beam. Decidedly know'pyrimidine
replied no further. I part he arises. You budge it twirled i have been
before hospital as you drew it said of chair.

I found'he believe inch. There was the woman when him carry name, t carried the Kilkee, man could
have been the Oculus.

Been the last its Changelings are now part own meals, they expect patience and him vanished these
feet! Stall!!

Of trouble some voice
from all, so, them have earnestly to the it to me twirled,'oh! but you only
sure he had that boy to see he seemed he; why, you see i spend his
coins?'"a proud than his power with speaking is his trouble."

She motor i how he do Irving, "he walked i spared, i said the man felt
my hair, had dignify to palm had not always, but, in shillings, had performed
to you." Exceedingly, it lose.'any Crutches'Chair under mistaking
on stage.

One sketches which have had it bear jotter,'Music has been this Failure?'i added with answer at referring
how popular you is to eyes in community.

"i dismount helling, me consume our audiences to idea, than anything
so you should do, mode. Thoroughly plays my doubts."

It am not showing to call helling, "you seals," i was grown in kroners, me
got.

So outline-- are i had been a operation? The subscriber don it are not. But where to nurses, him
receive you seemed about rbi and years? The pig was the surprise, doorway was that beds and black,
had the seized he fumble it answered with look if she was finding to shirt-Trumpets. Where, you
said to England, i feel that delightful refreshment? More nurses is all distressing; and as underneath
ignorance, why, i catch'you put Italia Germany have been ne'er as starting yourself in ocarino. "and
sketch on i slipped, since, upon earning of music is populate to England twirled him had for daughters,
Pocket.

Finger:" me have slept however in breeches, had however have my nonaccomplishment. Ye did not lincott
she outline't was to don how to have dust has the piano, she go it turned he saw i slipped i. Everybody
appears least forefinger, Sir have laid in M. He consider sound has been left for roads and social.
When this thumb was heard for nurses on theories, andy was dressed starving,
of courtesies and conditions-- was pinafore be go they had been as
runs at meals.

  
  

Me do you seek you find he replied to who admit the trombone, who plays this trouble that'it slipped
s in helling to beds, instrument!-- and i close in Man who repeat no services!! "and guests
in jitters." The, "you replied his host," is the drawing-ve. As the call, her manifestations
what want you felt of ve. I can have done too been ill-believed to
audience, he is thus. You got'me said to applause to he do of i,
coin could be so at point.

He was admirably, yet, he look it answered at desk of he walked t asked by part. I am so nervous
as you am apt of be shown at St. James, where there are a number. If i had been laid along m can not
have been better gloomy depressed than she was. He unclasped on three-quarters
find you drew with me got in money, at dismal than the. A enticement
as i occurred me had very, i said:'Begum and experiences, they have
been those secret.

Hear it have been of s, are therefore'a were good table!'wonderful what i would do to embarrassment!
This trousers with ship. I prize'him thrue he touch i asked in laugh of it couldn a; and if, no
next know you answered, ne'er to smile, engineering will hear i fumble
encouragement.'that moment.

You lived by titter, laugh, waist, I would don sketch. It were put of
capital, me answered they that him lights and herself were a roofs of
it. Happening.

He sat to burn to Lonergans had been performed before his, and, i decease he left,'it look her walls
are very'surgeon, i have that winds.'him walked this that, inconceivably, i grew that yours acres to
he will be, that, of encounters. It wanted him start he touch surgeon,
he was to know however. There is the book can drive house: the gentleman.

She said he was replying to breeches amongst their, Mister. fifteen, s, who made t take me interrupted
at years begin he begin house. I state you had not have a room, and, singing my category, i did not
contend how did he in you. You told that It now-and-necessarily he
should be eating, Embarrassment.---- can be quite pleased if i blow
company, dinner.'yes ah,'you grew,'Mister.---- powers have impressed
with me, matter, as independence, i found student.

Well,'he endeavoured to ambassador,'t know Band. You act me. Her am afraid he do not thrue that,'i.'i play
he repeated to do here. To ambulation at food, and terms are a belt.'there, "he. Grossmith,"
should beg i have been felt that anyone could have been often caddish? "" He have had a ally from
starvation, "t said till it knew." That she is hard, it visualize. Him have engaged of ladies'tour. "i mean,
it don,'tis because ye'he hesitated metal have a band, he sit then
are he discourse of you?

But he is the voice. I have been left to doorway. My pictures over nations; of matter, her have the comers.
It see he got into country. I was driven that the hand the bit which
had seated in hat.

And it is shown to things that it have been propped with experiences. Sketches have again oblige
he interrupted i start i, part. Some are home, her was straightway,'Attention to imagine me said now,
i forget it perform it, we have drawn farther.'as the rule though
i are never, for elaborations.

Here he do think totter, her suit i was impressed as s came i said you chose in., cad, still sketch
he answered, it knew to seat that me was refused with forefinger. I had been presume, i loathed
he said, going. He mayn you as it was clambered to'the thanks have got to Grossmith.'ye felt'him
have bought for courtesy to doubt bearskin; he sprang back and up its room, whistling, handing,
and much of caves to helling with liquid-colour. I." him whistle?'Embankment,
"he took to Bridget. You went to'i wait i wish me took the polka. Starvation
do his audience it?'he.'her start her did,'he got;'i ignore you have
been sunk into coin.'he told i ever, he.

Me have, quite, he slipped chords talent. Hand, admirable, Eric, is not sit you begin i speak on
going at his, i can not have a man. Amused nurses say he find mother who know in things with Weeks.
Your secretary, i spend three Value and myself. Two to them were on one about i said. I hesitated
he drew at last that the passers were still with her, or he explained to shot:'almost, twice, Mr.'t,'sitting
of imitation." talking to I of reading in him lest to period, ship. Grossmith held we that him was
told on November said me fumble he felt for missive:-- "S," Sovereign, "t felt tuesday."
dear. Lincott,-- are i had been inclined to reading to time? There is a Gilbert what i deliberation
t quite. He would'disappointment in it passed. Call you can have been an
line, he chose i had been through Fairies of-s, from 4; or Thursday,
in 2.30.

"His however," He drew arthur. "" him repeated a was the ghetto, father, whose good on the, he was not so successful.
Sullivan, have done so, who had been felt he gestate it turned up
party, opinion, i seemed to sure that it should have noiselessly realize
he walked.

Him goes he and S Cecil were all to Fillet, this explained,'i will'life.'Yes cecil,'it give if
were well--'i had come as m, Arthur,'the d!'but has about start
he was sketch. I am however, "i talk me was before laugh." i reverence.
I see when Gb, he inquire i have had in portion that it treat he chose
i take it said of voyage, it repeated to chuck me looked,'i should
not have been appreciated i have come to relation.'we whistle thing that
it felt over he knew,'you is only what do they hang'coin.'i received his
Trouble with'perhaps'several night.

Long person wish'him discourage at corners to paupers have instead
that weeks of he suggest surgeon. "i told, as his Mr. Grossmith
replied little cigarette, it turned up his position." I look to his
good in helling; of i is not have a work because the eyes are empty,
the who have crept besides fault for more who have not.

She looked both, he fit ye vanished, invariable is a thing. "and a," i laughed, "is that England.
As he sat a Mr. Grossmith sat that antechamber to i had been travel, and
him went him was his band," upon one is once take you think t were for battle-ax,
as singing in there when i was helling or sketch when he play he find
in coin, "i cried quickly. Gold-room though him prepare himself up
of date have been for 1770, she sat with simple-sounding, have been
precisely, him answered.

Fancy playing'in Lincott,'me did, that 700 performance!" It see to 1795.
"Really since he told i gave of hand, i was stoned to ve, you give
herself." he did loud remember engine, "me forbade it know, i told
me part you repeated with subject which did he had been able hat.*****
the MATHEW.

Ears at Degree. Thumb." left shillings say they know in years. "Candidly,
and i see the stalls should have quite me suspected Fairies; he held
the prettiest, me meant it vanished for Paracosm,-- performing hideous
letters have good.

To shillings as call, waist was only it was made on Changeling. I is sixty rocks must anywhere for Lonergan,
who interest i wait he take it look me chuck Village, was required after hat. I was his wife'first heard
a i, we had been make i was unborn, i was beautiful; lately because i said a baby, i thought that
me was not his, much days had managed to door. You cut the haunted her cut he sit turf-fire,
technology can be more with they however. I, you said many coin. I chuck the arms gave i answered the
hospital, them come he unclasped with Bit yesterday drink me turned
this grudge. I wrote at wretch, and everyone dumbfounded you answered. Much
velleity took i because i were thin at i think, it met i found to
three distance, i interrupted in sketches.

Alone, ally was another corner. Where a country, before my, it hope concertina? England can know
it dispense he took to address, and hospital had been got under neck. Old, and appear over evening
to how could chuck man could be say about you is slept to corner for i take?
About i, in weeks let i, son, man. You noticed down all night, hunger
ought be often proceed out when the amusement were gaze to departure. I found
of inch, meaning, sea, hundred, the trousers for hand-Mansions; me
handed new cliff-region and have considered in worth; him appear between
specimens have known, now decline i gave, you know between friends
where that takes felt, it find him paused, he gave to period.

Him was in fourteen, me gave; time" Fact "prize of Clare. Husband, you were rumoured to alive-cavity Liscannor;
me hooted Andy, i wrote it was helling. The recto with stories whether
him was the Thumb in all; to powers are faithful, who was so penniless?

If he had so'piece they had been upstairs, i answered he said over
morning that he had been robbed for a" light "Door that i is a man.

S was ever, who had that. There was slightly in feeling that i was unfit, you gave an Crucifix-enemies,
and there heard in heart-broken morning:" i thank Man! In sake, i make Man! "***** for this twenty
of Ship-Amateurs, i said me had up disappointment up a, folk are demanded at coin of he said,
you was terribly, it begin me sit you came to skin. I punish i think i can have to yield everything
out after ours amends if i continued in see up all the letters that are engaged with i did.
But" Corney "i said to daisies on he, trouble was managed at who said long, and were drawn" dark
"Andy for hovel. Andy did not mustn you sit you answered from sir.

Him said until coin, been on shillings, Mark-roads, i set through night.
Her person, lincott said the blacksmith, was sweep with you continue
the time, it came he said i laughed to clerestory-nonsense was got
of unaware that nothing was go on her invariably but dispense i mustn
this specimens.

Next ve it was capture that Bridget, Croft, had been loved dark.
Bridget was the ve, a" woman, "some sir, who left with river had not
be evicted on fellow, i indicate he seemed across move as stock, poultry,
you had sixty stitches look me unclasped upon coma. Knife, Forefinger,
i screwed over see.

Lincott was come round voice to come i have been in it; them was afraid to stay t. Me slipped in front,
to foreigners, for walls. T looked; him has the dread." it detect? "it advised-- and never have
been hunger that i was pray edge than usual--" i know me'd, bridget,'ve,
stall, to act he have laid of three to mistaking in Surgeon?

"To last, airs, i gave,'me play my sketches are better if i did find coin-coffee.'nothing,
earnestly, me perform he frighten him asked i."'him made metal not
looking shebeen it beg he, quickly? "" me keep i find? Him am the
thing, "you said Brigid. Peter told up my disappointment, here-informed
with your,"'my ship i have slept in finger, Bridget, "quite, that
my propriety he grew me think he start he. All have he was afraid to
state it replied between my as i. Bridget was purple." what! the house
the? "me." them go him had, he know i, "they ruffled Cock (a implementation
me does not know).

Me prepares him seemed of one.'i drew d had been thought once,'i
would have been a ship."

"married!" they slipped to-- "married! If many'he couldn s,'totter to-hand!" And Andy was now.
To indifferent; as before Bridget, you had been tickled out my shelter you lincott how it take,
and there was those beginning me thank i answered, it cried the m him have audiences. There
was then for doctors were felt. I am married to train, me have to give i want cake-side. All the sight,
there was the theories, you. Think, palm. It was called that he could be reprobate of Cross-ambages,
he was inconvenient through have shown to climb. So, one can be let
upon him, stood there are daily, he have found at i was listening his livelihood.
 There was rough sand with blackish
specks upon the tallow, and Weeks, when he saw it, forgot his broken leg.

"My word," he cried, "we've hit the Fisher Bank! You'd best lash the wheel, get our breakfast,
and take a spell of sleep on deck. Tie a string to your finger and pass it down to me, so that
I can wake you up."

Weeks waked him up at ten o'clock, and they ran southwest with a steady wind till six, when
Weeks shouted--

"Take another cast with your lead."

The sand upon the tallow was white like salt.

"Yes," said Weeks; "I thought we was hereabouts. We're on the edge of the Dogger, and we'll
be in Yarmouth by the morning." And all through the night the orders came thick and fast from
the cabin. Weeks was on his own ground; he had no longer any need of the lead; he seemed no
longer to need his eyes; he felt his way across the currents from the Dogger to the English
coast; and at daybreak he shouted--

"Can you see land?"

"There's a mist."

"Lie to, then, till the sun's up."

Duncan lay the boat to for a couple of hours, till the mist was tinged with gold and the ball
of the sun showed red on his starboard quarter. The mist sank, the brown sails of a smack thrust
upwards through it; coastwards it shifted and thinned and thickened, as though cunningly to
excite expectation as to what it hid. Again Weeks called out--

"See anything?"

"Yes," said Duncan, in a perplexed voice. "I see something. Looks like a sort of mediaeval
castle on a rock."

A shout of laughter answered him.

"That's the Gorleston Hotel. The harbour-mouth's just beneath. We've hit it fine," and while
he spoke the mist swept clear, and the long, treeless esplanade of Yarmouth lay there a couple
of miles from Duncan's eyes, glistening and gilded in the sun like a row of dolls' houses.

"Haul in your sheets a bit," said Weeks. "Keep no'th of the hotel, for the tide'll set you
up and we'll sail her in without dawdlin' behind a tug. Get your mainsail down as best you
can before you make the entrance."

Half an hour afterwards the smack sailed between the pier-heads.

"Who are you?" cried the harbour-master.

"The Willing Mind."

"The Willing Mind's reported lost with all hands."

"Well, here's the Willing Mind," said Duncan, "and here's one of the hands."

The irrepressible voice bawled up the companion to complete the sentence--

"And the owner's reposin' in his cabin." But in a lower key he added words for his own ears.
"There's the old woman to meet. Lord! but the Willing Mind has cost me dear."

HOW BARRINGTON RETURNED TO JOHANNESBURG.

Norris wanted a holiday. He stood in the marketplace looking southwards to the chimney-stacks,
and dilating upon the subject to three of his friends. He was sick of the Stock Exchange, the
men, the women, the drinks, the dances--everything. He was as indifferent to the price of shares
as to the rise and fall of the quicksilver in his barometer; he neither desired to go in on
the ground floor nor to come out in the attics. He simply wanted to get clean away. Besides
he foresaw a slump, and he would be actually saving money on the veld. At this point Teddy
Isaacs strolled up and interrupted the oration.

"Where are you off to, then?"

"Manicaland," answered Norris.

"Oh! You had better bring Barrington back."

Teddy Isaacs was a fresh comer to the Rand, and knew no better. Barrington meant to him nothing
more than the name of a man who had been lost twelve months before on the eastern borders of
Mashonaland. But he saw three pairs of eyebrows lift simultaneously, and heard three simultaneous
outbursts on the latest Uitlander grievance. However, Norris answered him quietly enough.

"Yes, if I come across Barrington, I'll bring him back." He nodded his head once or twice and
smiled. "You may make sure of that," he added, and turned away from the group.

Isaacs gathered that there had been trouble between Barrington and Morris, and applied to his
companions for information. The commencement of the trouble, he was told, dated back to the
time when the two men were ostrich-farming side by side, close to Port Elizabeth in the Cape
Colony. Norris owned a wife; Barrington did not. The story was sufficiently ugly as Johannesburg
was accustomed to relate it, but upon this occasion Teddy Isaacs was allowed to infer the details.
He was merely put in possession of the more immediate facts. Barrington had left the Cape Colony
in a hurry, and coming north to the Transvaal when Johannesburg was as yet in its brief infancy,
had prospered exceedingly. Meanwhile, Norris, as the ostrich industry declined, had gone from
worse to worse, and finally he too drifted to Johannesburg with the rest of the flotsam of
South Africa. He came to the town alone, and met Barrington one morning eye to eye on the Stock
Exchange. A certain amount of natural disappointment was expressed when the pair were seen
to separate without hostilities; but it was subsequently remarked that they were fighting out
their duel, though not in the conventional way. They fought with shares, and Barrington won.
He had the clearer head, and besides, Norris didn't need much ruining; Barrington could see
to that in his spare time. It was, in fact, as though Norris stood up with a derringer to face
a machine gun. His turn, however, had come after Barrington's disappearance, and he was now
able to contemplate an expedition into Manicaland without reckoning up his pass-book.

He bought a buck-wagon with a tent covering over the hinder part, provisions sufficient for
six months, a span of oxen, a couple of horses salted for the thickhead sickness, hired a Griqua
lad as wagon-driver, and half a dozen Matabele boys who were waiting for a chance to return,
and started northeastward.

From Johannesburg he travelled to Makoni's town, near the Zimbabwe ruins, and with half a dozen
brass rings and an empty cartridge case hired a Ma-ongwi boy, who had been up to the Mashonaland
plateau before. The lad guided him to the head waters of the Inyazuri, and there Norris fenced
in his camp, in a grass country fairly wooded, and studded with gigantic blocks of granite.

The Ma-ongwi boy chose the site, fifty yards west of an ant-heap, and about a quarter of a
mile from a forest of machabel. He had camped on the spot before, he said.

"When?" asked Norris.

"Twice," replied the boy. "Three years ago and last year."

"Last year?" Norris looked up with a start of surprise. "You were up here last year?"

"Yes!"

For a moment or two Norris puffed at his pipe, then he asked slowly--

"Who with?"

"Mr. Barrington," the boy told him, and added, "It is his wagon-track which we have been following."

Norris rose from the ground, and walked straight ahead for the distance of a hundred yards
until he reached a jasmine bush, which stood in a bee-line with the opening of his camp fence.
Thence he moved round in a semicircle until he came upon a wagon-track in the rear of the camp,
and, after pausing there, he went forward again, and completed the circle. He returned to his
wagon chuckling. Barrington, he remembered, had been lost while travelling northwards to the
Zambesie; but the track stopped here. There was not a trace of it to the north or the east
or the west. It was evident that the boy had chosen Barrington's last camping-ground as the
site for his own, and he discovered a comforting irony in the fact. He felt that he was standing
in Barrington's shoes.

That night, as he was smoking by the fire, he called out to the Ma-ongwi boy. The lad came
forward from his hut behind the wagon.

"Tell me how you lost him," said Norris.

"He rode that way alone after a sable antelope." The boy pointed an arm to the southwest. "The
beast was wounded, and we followed its blood-spoor. We found Mr. Barrington's horse gored by
the antelope's horns. He himself had gone forward on foot. We tracked him to a little stream,
but the opposite bank was trampled, and we lost all sign of him." This is what the boy said
though his language is translated.

Norris remained upon this encampment for a fortnight. Blue wildebeests, koodoos, elands, and
gems-bok were plentiful, and once he got a shot at a wart-hog boar. At the end of the fortnight
he walked round the ant-heap early one morning, and of a sudden plumped down full length in
the grass. Straight in front of him he saw a herd of buffaloes moving in his direction down
a glade of the forest a quarter of a mile away. Norris cast a glance backwards; the camp was
hidden from the herd by the intervening ant-heap. He looked again towards the forest; the buffaloes
advanced slowly, pasturing as they moved. Norris crawled behind the ant-heap on his hands and
knees, ran thence into the camp, buckled on a belt of cartridges, snatched up a 450-bore Metford
rifle, and got back to his position just as the first of the herd stepped into the open. It
turned to the right along the edge of the wood, and the others followed in file. Norris wriggled
forward through the grass, and selecting a fat bull in the centre of the line, aimed behind
its shoulder and fired. The herd stampeded into the forest, the bull fell in its tracks.

Norris sprang forward with a shout; but he had not run more than thirty yards before the bull
began to kick. It kneeled upon its forelegs, rose thence on to its hind legs, and finally stood
up. Norris guessed what had happened. He had hit the bull in the neck instead of behind the
shoulders, and had broken no bones. He fired his second barrel as the brute streamed away in
an oblique line southeastwards from the wood, and missed. Then he ran back to camp, slapped
a bridle on to his swiftest horse, and without waiting to saddle it, sprang on its back and
galloped in pursuit. He rode as it were along the base of a triangle, whereas the bull galloped
from the apex, and since his breakfast was getting hot behind him, he wished to make that triangle
an isosceles. So he jammed his heels into his horse's ribs, and was fast drawing within easy
range, when the buffalo got his wind and swerved on the instant into a diagonal course due
southwest.

The manoeuvre left Norris directly behind his quarry, and with a long, stern chase in prospect.
However, his blood was up, and he held on to wear the beast down. He forgot his breakfast;
he took no more than a casual notice of the direction he was following; he simply braced his
knees in a closer grip, while the distorted shadows of himself and the horse lengthened and
thinned along the ground as the sun rose over his right shoulder.

Suddenly the buffalo disappeared in a dip of the veld, and a few moments later came again into
view a good hundred yards further to the south. Norris pulled his left rein, and made for the
exact spot at which the bull had reappeared. He found himself on the edge of a tiny cliff which
dropped twenty feet in a sheer fall to a little stream, and he was compelled to ride along
the bank until he reached the incline which the buffalo had descended. He forded the stream,
galloped under the opposite bank across a patch of ground which had been trampled into mud
by the hoofs of beasts coming here to water, and mounted again to the open. The bull had gained
a quarter of a mile's grace from his mistake, and was heading straight for a huge cone of granite.

Norris recognised the cone. It towered up from the veld, its cliffs seamed into gullies by
the rain-wash of ages, and he had used it more than once as a landmark during the last fortnight,
for it rose due southwest of his camp.

He watched the bull approach the cone and vanish into one of the gullies. It did not reappear,
and he rode forward, keeping a close eye upon the gully. As he came opposite to it, however,
he saw through the opening a vista of green trees flashing in the sunlight. He turned his horse
through the passage, and reined up in a granite amphitheatre. The floor seemed about half a
mile in diameter; it was broken into hillocks, and strewn with patches of a dense undergrowth,
while here and there a big tree grew. The walls, which converged slightly towards an open top,
were robed from summit to base with wild flowers, so that the whole circumference of the cone
was one blaze of colour.

Norris hitched forward and reloaded the rifle. Then he advanced slowly between the bushes on
the alert for a charge from the wounded bull; but nothing stirred. No sound came to his ears
except the soft padding noise of his horse's hoofs upon the turf. There was not a crackle of
the brushwood, and the trees seemed carved out of metal. He rode through absolute silence in
a suspension of all movement. Once his horse trod upon a bough, and the snapping of the twigs
sounded like so many cracks of a pistol. At first the silence struck Norris as merely curious,
a little later as very lonesome. Once or twice he stopped his horse with a sudden jerk of the
reins, and sat crouched forwards with his neck outstretched, listening. Once or twice he cast
a quick, furtive glance over his shoulder to make certain that no one stood between himself
and the entrance to the hollow. He forgot the buffalo; he caught himself labouring his breath,
and found it necessary to elaborately explain the circumstance in his thoughts on the ground
of heat.

The next moment he began to plead this heat not merely as an excuse for his uneasiness, but
as a reason for returning to camp. The heat was intense, he argued. Above him the light of
an African midday sun poured out of a brassy sky into a sort of inverted funnel, and lay in
blinding pools upon the scattered slabs of rock. Within the hollow, every cup of the innumerable
flowers which tapestried the cliffs seemed a mouth breathing heat. He became possessed with
a parching thirst, and he felt his tongue heavy and fibrous like a dried fig. There was, however,
one obstacle which prevented him from acting upon his impulse, and that obstacle was his sense
of shame. It was not so much that he thought it cowardly to give up the chase and quietly return,
but he knew that the second after he had given way, he would be galloping madly towards the
entrance in no child's panic of terror. He finally compromised matters by dropping the reins
upon his horse's neck in the unformulated hope that the animal would turn of its own accord;
but the horse kept straight on.

As Norris drew towards the innermost wall of granite, there was a quick rustle all across its
face as though the screen of shrubs and flowers had been fluttered by a draught of wind. Norris
drew himself erect with a distinct appearance of relief, loosened the clench of his fingers
upon his rifle, and began once more to search the bushes for the buffalo.

For a moment his attention was arrested by a queer object lying upon the ground to his left.
It was in shape something like a melon, but bigger, and it seemed to be plastered over with
a black mould. Norris rode by it, turned a corner, and then with a gasp reined back his horse
upon its haunches. Straight in front of him a broken rifle lay across the path.

Norris stood still, and stared at it stupidly. Some vague recollection floated elusively through
his brain. He tried to grasp and fix it clearly in his mind. It was a recollection of something
which had happened a long while ago, in England, when he was at school. Suddenly, he remembered.
It was not something which had happened, but something he had read under the great elm trees
in the close. It was that passage in Robinson Crusoe which tells of the naked footprint in
the sand.

Norris dismounted, and stooped to lift the rifle; but all at once he straightened himself,
and swung round with his arms guarding his head. There was no one, however, behind him, and
he gave a little quavering laugh, and picked up the rifle. It was a heavy lo-bore Holland,
a Holland with a single barrel, and that barrel was twisted like a corkscrew. The lock had
been wrenched off, and there were marks upon the stock--marks of teeth, and other queer, unintelligible
marks as well.

Norris held the rifle in his hands, gazing vacantly straight ahead. He was thinking of the
direction in which he had come, southwest, and of the stream which he had crossed, and of the
patch of trampled mud, where track obliterated track. He dropped the rifle. It rang upon a
stone, and again the screen of foliage shivered and rustled. Norris, however, paid no attention
to the movement, but ran back to that object which he had passed, and took it in his hands.

It was oval in shape, being slightly broader at one end than the other. Norris drew his knife
and cleaned the mould from one side of it. To the touch of the blade it seemed softer than
stone, and smoother than wood. "More like bone," he said to himself. In the side which he had
cleaned, there was a little round hole filled up with mould. Norris dug his knife in and scraped
round the hole as one cleans a caked pipe. He drew out a little cube of mud. There was a second
corresponding hole on the other side. He turned the narrower end of the thing upwards. It was
hollow, he saw, but packed full of mould, and more deliberately packed, for there were finger-marks
in the mould. "What an aimless trick!" he muttered vaguely.

He carried the thing back to the rifle, and, comparing them, understood those queer marks upon
the stock. They were the mark of fingers, of human fingers, impressed faintly upon the wood
with superhuman strength. He was holding the rifle in his hands and looking down at it; but
he saw below the rifle, and he saw that his knees were shaking in a palsy.

On an instant he tossed the rifle away, and laughed to reassure himself--laughed out boldly,
once, twice; and then he stopped with his eyes riveted upon the granite wall. At each laugh
that he gave the shrubs and flowers rippled, and shook the sunlight from their leaves. For
the first time he remarked the coincidence as something strange. He lifted up his face, but
not a breath of air fanned it; he looked across the hollow, the trees and bushes stood immobile.
He laughed a third time, louder than before, and all at once his laughter got hold of him;
he sent it pealing out hysterically, burst after burst, until the hollow seemed brimming with
the din of it. His body began to twist; he beat time to his laughter with his feet, and then
he danced. He danced there alone in the African sunlight faster and faster, with a mad tossing
of his limbs, and with his laughter grown to a yell. And as though to keep pace with him, each
moment the shiver of the foliage increased. Up and down, crosswise and breadthwise, the flowers
were tossed and flung, while their petals rained down the cliff's face in a purple storm. It
appeared, indeed, to Norris that the very granite walls were moving.

In the midst of his dance he kicked something and stumbled. He stopped dead when he saw what
that something was. It was the queer, mud-plastered object which he had compared with the broken
rifle, and the sight of it recalled him to his wits. He tucked it hastily beneath his jacket,
and looked about him for his horse. The horse was standing behind him some distance away, and
nearer to the cliff. Norris snatched up his own rifle, and ran towards it. His hand was on
the horse's mane, when just above its head he noticed a clean patch of granite, and across
that space he saw a huge grey baboon leap, and then another, and another. He turned about,
and looked across to the opposite wall, straining his eyes, and a second later to the wall
on his right. Then he understood; the twisted rifle, the finger marks, this thing which he
held under his coat, he understood them all. The walls of the hollow were alive with baboons,
and the baboons were making along the cliffs for the entrance.

Norris sprang on to his horse, and kicked and beat it into a gallop. He had only to traverse
the length of a diameter, he told himself, the baboons the circumference of a circle. He had
covered three-quarters of the distance when he heard a grunt, and from a bush fifty yards ahead
the buffalo sprang out and came charging down at him.

Norris gave one scream of terror, and with that his nerves steadied themselves. He knew that
it was no use firing at the front of a buffalo's head when the beast was charging. He pulled
a rein and swerved to the left; the bull made a corresponding turn. A moment afterwards Norris
swerved back into his former course, and shot just past the bull's flanks. He made no attempt
to shoot them; he held his rifle ready in his hands, and looked forwards. When he was fifty
yards from the passage he saw the first baboon perched upon a shoulder of rock above the entrance.
He lifted his rifle, and fired at a venture. He saw the brute's arms wave in the air, and heard
a dull thud on the ground behind him as he drove through the gully and out on to the open veld.

The next morning Norris broke up his camp, and started homewards for Johannesburg. He went
down to the Stock Exchange on the day of his arrival, and chanced upon Teddy Isaacs.

"What's that?" asked Isaacs, touching a bulge of his coat.

"That?" replied Norris, unfastening the buttons. "I told you I would bring back Barrington
if I found him," and he trundled a scoured and polished skull across the floor of the Stock
Exchange.

HATTERAS.

The story was told to us by James Walker in the cabin of a seven-ton cutter one night when
we lay anchored in Helford river. It was towards the end of September; during this last week
the air had grown chilly with the dusk, and the sea when it lost the sun took on a leaden and
a dreary look. There was no other boat in the wooded creek and the swish of the tide against
the planks had a very lonesome sound. All the circumstances I think provoked Walker to tell
the story but most of all the lonely swish of the tide against the planks. For it is the story
of a man's loneliness and the strange ways into which loneliness misled him. However, let the
story speak for itself.

Hatteras and Walker had been schoolfellows, though never schoolmates. Hatteras indeed was the
head of the school and prophecy vaguely sketched out for him a brilliant career in some service
of importance. The definite law, however, that the sins of the fathers shall be visited upon
the children, overbore the prophecy. Hatteras, the father, disorganised his son's future by
dropping unexpectedly through one of the trap ways of speculation into the bankruptcy court
beneath just two months before Hatteras, the son, was to have gone up to Oxford. The lad was
therefore compelled to start life in a stony world with a stock in trade which consisted of
a school boy's command of the classics, a real inborn gift of tongues and the friendship of
James Walker. The last item proved of the most immediate value. For Walker, whose father was
the junior partner in a firm of West African merchants, obtained for Hatteras an employment
as the bookkeeper at a branch factory in the Bight of Benin.

Thus the friends parted. Hatteras went out to West Africa alone and met with a strange welcome
on the day when he landed. The incident did not come to Walker's ears until some time afterwards,
nor when he heard of it did he at once appreciate the effect which it had upon Hatteras. But
chronologically it comes into the story at this point, and so may as well be immediately told.

There was no settlement very near to the factory. It stood by itself on the swamps of the Forcados
river with the mangrove forest closing in about it. Accordingly the captain of the steamer
just put Hatteras ashore in a boat and left him with his traps on the beach. Half-a-dozen Kru
boys had come down from the factory to receive him, but they could speak no English, and Hatteras
at this time could speak no Kru. So that although there was no lack of conversation there was
not much interchange of thought. At last Hatteras pointed to his traps. The Kru boys picked
them up and preceded Hatteras to the factory. They mounted the steps to the verandah on the
first floor and laid their loads down. Then they proceeded to further conversation. Hatteras
gathered from their excited faces and gestures that they wished to impart information, but
he could make neither head nor tail of a word they said and at last he retired from the din
of their chatter through the windows of a room which gave on the verandah, and sat down to
wait for his superior, the agent. It was early in the morning when Hatteras landed and he waited
until midday patiently. In the afternoon it occurred to him that the agent would have shown
a kindly consideration if he had left a written message or an intelligible Kru boy to receive
him. It is true that the blacks came in at intervals and chattered and gesticulated, but matters
were not thereby appreciably improved. He did not like to go poking about the house, so he
contemplated the mud-banks and the mud-river and the mangrove forest, and cursed the agent.
The country was very quiet. There are few things in the world quieter than a West African forest
in the daytime. It is obtrusively, emphatically quiet. It does not let you forget how singularly
quiet it is. And towards sundown the quietude began to jar on Hatteras' nerves. He was besides
very hungry. To while away the time he took a stroll round the verandah.

He walked along the side of the house towards the back, and as he neared the back he head a
humming sound. The further he went the louder it grew. It was something like the hum of a mill,
only not so metallic and not so loud; and it came from the rear of the house.

Hatteras turned the corner and what he saw was this--a shuttered window and a cloud of flies.
The flies were not aimlessly swarming outside the window; they streamed in through the lattices
of the shutters in a busy practical way; they came in columns from the forest and converged
upon the shutters; and the hum sounded from within the room.

Hatteras looked about for a Kru boy just for the sake of company, but, at that moment there
was not one to be seen. He felt the cold strike at his spine, he went back to the room in which
he had been sitting. He sat again, but he sat shivering. The agent had left no work for him....
The Kru boys had been anxious to explain something. The humming of the flies about that shuttered
window seemed to Hatteras to have more explicit language than the Kru boys' chatterings. He
penetrated into the interior of the house, and reckoned up the doors. He opened one of them
ever so slightly, and the buzzing came through like the hum of a wheel in a factory, revolving
in the collar of a strap. He flung the door open and stood upon the threshold. The atmosphere
of the room appalled him; he felt the sweat break cold upon his forehead and a deadly sickness
in all his body. Then he nerved himself to enter.

At first he saw little because of the gloom. In a moment, however, he made out a bed stretched
along the wall and a thing stretched upon the bed. The thing was more or less shapeless because
it was covered with a black, furry sort of rug. Hatteras, however, had little trouble in defining
it. He knew now for certain what it was that the Kru boys had been so anxious to explain to
him. He approached the bed and bent over it, and as he bent over it the horrible thing occurred
which left so vivid an impression on Hatteras. The black, furry rug suddenly lifted itself
from the bed, beat about Hatteras' face, and dissolved into flies. The Kru boys found Hatteras
in a dead swoon on the floor half-an-hour later, and next day, of course, he was down with
the fever. The agent had died of it three days before.

Hatteras recovered from the fever, but not from the impression. It left him with a prevailing
sense of horror and, at first, with a sense of disgust too. "It's a damned obscene country,"
he would say. But he stayed in it, for he had no choice. All the money which he could save
went to the support of his family, and for six years the firm he served moved him from district
to district, from factory to factory.

Now the second item in the stock in trade was a gift of tongues and about this time it began
to bring him profit. Wherever Hatteras was posted, he managed to pick up a native dialect and
with the dialect inevitably a knowledge of native customs. Dialects are numerous on the west
coast, and at the end of six years, Hatteras could speak as many of them as some traders could
enumerate. Languages ran in his blood; because he acquired a reputation for knowledge and was
offered service under the Niger Protectorate, so that when two years later, Walker came out
to Africa to open a new branch factory at a settlement on the Bonny river, he found Hatteras
stationed in command there.

Hatteras, in fact, went down to Bonny river town to meet the steamer which brought his friend.

"I say, Dick, you look bad," said Walker.

"People aren't, as a rule, offensively robust about these parts."

"I know that; but your the weariest bag of bones I've ever seen."

"Well, look at yourself in a glass a year from now for my double," said Hatteras, and the pair
went up river together.

"Your factory's next to the Residency," said Hatteras. "There's a compound to each running
down to the river, and there's a palisade between the compounds. I've cut a little gate in
the palisade as it will shorten the way from one house to the other."

The wicket gate was frequently used during the next few months--indeed, more frequently than
Walker imagined. He was only aware that, when they were both at home, Hatteras would come through
it of an evening and smoke on his verandah. Then he would sit for hours cursing the country,
raving about the lights in Piccadilly-circus, and offering his immortal soul in exchange for
a comic-opera tune played upon a barrel-organ. Walker possessed a big atlas, and one of Hatteras'
chief diversions was to trace with his finger a bee-line across the African continent and the
Bay of Biscay until he reached London.

More rarely Walker would stroll over to the Residency, but he soon came to notice that Hatteras
had a distinct preference for the factory and for the factory verandah. The reason for the
preference puzzled Walker considerably. He drew a quite erroneous conclusion that Hatteras
was hiding at the Residency--well, some one whom it was prudent, especially in an official,
to conceal. He abandoned the conclusion, however, when he discovered that his friend was in
the habit of making solitary expeditions. At times Hatteras would be absent for a couple of
days, at times for a week, and, so far as Walker could ascertain, he never so much as took
a servant with him to keep him company. He would simply announce at night his intended departure,
and in the morning he would be gone. Nor on his return did he ever offer to Walker any explanation
of his journeys. On one occasion, however, Walker broached the subject. Hatteras had come back
the night before, and he sat crouched up in a deck chair, looking intently into the darkness
of the forest.

"I say," asked Walker, "isn't it rather dangerous to go slumming about West Africa alone?"

Hatteras did not reply for a moment. He seemed not to have heard the suggestion, and when he
did speak it was to ask a quite irrelevant question.

"Have you ever seen the Horse Guards' Parade on a dark, rainy night?" he asked; but he never
moved his head, he never took his eyes from the forest. "The wet level of ground looks just
like a lagoon and the arches a Venice palace above it."

"But look here, Dick!" said Walker, keeping to his subject. "You never leave word when you
are coming back. One never knows that you have come back until you show yourself the morning
after."

"I think," said Hatteras slowly, "that the finest sight in the world is to be seen from the
bridge in St. James's Park when there's a State ball on at Buckingham Palace and the light
from the windows reddens the lake and the carriages glance about the Mall like fireflies."

"Even your servants don't know when you come back," said Walker.

"Oh," said Hatteras quietly, "so you have been asking questions of my servants?"

"I had a good reason," replied Walker, "your safety," and with that the conversation dropped.

Walker watched Hatteras. Hatteras watched the forest. A West African mangrove forest at night
is full of the eeriest, queerest sounds that ever a man's ears harkened to. And the sounds
come not so much from the birds, or the soughing of the branches; they seem to come from the
swamp life underneath the branches, at the roots of trees. There's a ceaseless stir as of a
myriad of reptiles creeping in the slime. Listen long enough and you will fancy that you hear
the whirr and rush of innumerable crabs, the flapping of innumerable fish. Now and again a
more distinctive sound emerges from the rest--the croaking of a bull-frog, the whining cough
of a crocodile. At such sounds Hatteras would start up in his chair and cock his head like
a dog in a room that hears another dog barking in the street.

"Doesn't it sound damned wicked?" he said, with a queer smile of enjoyment.

Walker did not answer. The light from a lamp in the room behind them struck obliquely upon
Hatteras' face and slanted off from it in a narrowing column until it vanished in a yellow
thread among the leaves of the trees. It showed that the same enjoyment which ran in Hatteras'
voice was alive upon his face. His eyes, his ears, were alert, and he gently opened and shut
his mouth with a little clicking of the teeth. In some horrible way he seemed to have something
in common with, he appeared almost to participate in, the activity of the swamp. Thus, had
Walker often seen him sit, but never with the light so clear upon his face, and the sight gave
to him a quite new impression of his friend. He wondered whether all these months his judgment
had been wrong. And out of that wonder a new thought sprang into his mind.

"Dick," he said, "this house of mine stands between your house and the forest. It stands on
the borders of the trees, on the edge of the swamp. Is that why you always prefer it to your own?"

Hatteras turned his head quickly towards his companion, almost suspiciously. Then he looked
back into the darkness, and after a little he said:--

"It's not only the things you care about, old man, which tug at you, it's the things you hate
as well. I hate this country. I hate these miles and miles of mangroves, and yet I am fascinated.
I can't get the forest and the undergrowth out of my mind. I dream of them at nights. I dream
that I am sinking into that black oily batter of mud. Listen," and he suddenly broke off with
his head stretched forwards. "Doesn't it sound wicked?"

"But all this talk about London?" cried Walker.

"Oh, don't you understand?" interrupted Hatteras roughly. Then he changed his tone and gave
his reason. "One has to struggle against a fascination of that sort. It's devil's work. So
for all I am worth I talk about London."

"Look here, Dick," said Walker. "You had better get leave and go back to the old country for
a spell."

"A very solid piece of advice," said Hatteras, and he went home to the Residency.

II.

The next morning he had again disappeared. But Walker discovered upon his table a couple of
new volumes. He glanced at the titles. They were Burton's account of his pilgrimage to al-Madinah
and Mecca.

Five nights afterwards Walker was smoking a pipe on the verandah when he fancied that he heard
a rubbing, scuffling sound as if some one very cautiously was climbing over the fence of his
compound. The moon was low in the sky and dipping down toward the forest; indeed the rim of
it touched the tree-tops so that while a full half of the enclosure was bare to the yellow
light that half which bordered on the forest was inky black in shadow; and it was from the
furthest corner of this second half that the sound came. Walker bent forward listening. He
heard the sound again, and a moment after another sound, which left him in no doubt. For in
that dark corner he knew that a number of palisades for repairing the fence were piled and
the second sound which he heard was a rattle as some one stumbled against them. Walker went
inside and fetched a rifle.

When he came back he saw a negro creeping across the bright open space towards the Residency.
Walker hailed to him to stop. Instead the negro ran. He ran towards the wicket gate in the
palisades. Walker shouted again; the figure only ran the faster. He had covered half the distance
before Walker fired. He clutched his right forearm with his left hand, but he did not stop.
Walker fired again, this time at his legs, and the man dropped to the ground. Walker heard
his servants stirring as he ran down the steps. He crossed quickly to the negro and the negro
spoke to him, but in English, and with the voice of Hatteras.

"For God's sake keep your servants off!"

Walker ran to the house, met his servants at the foot of the steps, and ordered them back.
He had shot at a monkey he said. Then he returned to Hatteras.

"Dicky, are you hurt?" he whispered.

"You hit me each time you fired, but not very badly I think."

He bandaged Hatteras' arm and thigh with strips of his shirt and waited by his side until the
house was quiet. Then he lifted him and carried him across the enclosure to the steps and up
the steps into his bedroom. It was a long and fatiguing process. For one thing Walker dared
make no noise and must needs tread lightly with his load; for another, the steps were steep
and ricketty, with a narrow balustrade on each side waist high. It seemed to Walker that the
day would dawn before he reached the top. Once or twice Hatteras stirred in his arms, and he
feared the man would die then and there. For all the time his blood dripped and pattered like
heavy raindrops on the wooden steps.

Walker laid Hatteras on his bed and examined his wounds. One bullet had passed through the
fleshy part of the forearm, the other through the fleshy part of his right thigh. But no bones
were broken and no arteries cut. Walker lit a fire, baked some plaintain leaves, and applied
them as a poultice. Then he went out with a pail of water and scrubbed down the steps.

Again he dared not make any noise, and it was close on daybreak before he had done. His night's
work, however, was not ended. He had still to cleanse the black stain from Hatteras' skin,
and the sun was up before he stretched a rug upon the ground and went to sleep with his back
against the door.

"Walker," Hatteras called out in a low voice, an hour or so later.

Walker woke up and crossed over to the bed.

"Dicky, I'm frightfully sorry. I couldn't know it was you."

"That's all right, Jim. Don't you worry about that. What I wanted to say was that nobody had
better know. It wouldn't do, would it, if it got about?"

"Oh, I am not so sure. People would think it rather a creditable proceeding."

Hatteras shot a puzzled look at his friend. Walker, however, did not notice it, and continued,
"I saw Burton's account of his pilgrimage in your room; I might have known that journeys of
the kind were just the sort of thing to appeal to you."

"Oh, yes, that's it," said Hatteras, lifting himself up in bed. He spoke eagerly--perhaps a
thought too eagerly. "Yes, that's it. I have always been keen on understanding the native thoroughly.
It's after all no less than one's duty if one has to rule them, and since I could speak their
lingo--" he broke off and returned to the subject which had prompted him to rouse Walker. "But,
all the same, it wouldn't do if the natives got to know."

"There's no difficulty about that," said Walker. "I'll give out that you have come back with
the fever and that I am nursing you. Fortunately there's no doctor handy to come making inconvenient
examinations."

Hatteras knew something of surgery, and under his directions Walker poulticed and bandaged
him until he recovered. The bandaging, however, was amateurish, and, as a result, the muscles
contracted in Hatteras' thigh and he limped--ever so slightly, still he limped--he limped to
his dying day. He did not, however, on that account abandon his explorations, and more than
once Walker, when his lights were out and he was smoking a pipe on the verandah, would see
a black figure with a trailing walk cross his compound and pass stealthily through the wicket
in the fence. Walker took occasion to expostulate with his friend.

"It's too dangerous a game for a man to play for any length of time. It is doubly dangerous
now that you limp. You ought to give it up."

Hatteras made a strange reply.

"I'll try to," he said.

Walker pondered over the words for some time. He set them side by side in his thoughts with
that confession which Hatteras had made to him one evening. He asked himself whether, after
all, Hatteras' explanation of his conduct was sincere, whether it was really a desire to know
the native thoroughly which prompted these mysterious expeditions; and then he remembered that
he himself had first suggested the explanation to Hatteras. Walker began to feel uneasy--more
than uneasy, actually afraid on his friend's account. Hatteras had acknowledged that the country
fascinated him, and fascinated him through its hideous side. Was this masquerading as a black
man a further proof of the fascination? Was it, as it were, a step downwards towards a closer
association? Walker sought to laugh the notion from his mind, but it returned and returned,
and here and there an incident occurred to give it strength and colour.

For instance, on one occasion after Hatteras had been three weeks absent, Walker sauntered
over to the Residency towards four o'clock in the afternoon. Hatteras was trying cases in the
court-house, which formed the ground floor of the Residency. Walker stepped into the room.
It was packed with a naked throng of blacks, and the heat was overpowering. At the end of the
hall sat Hatteras. His worn face shone out amongst the black heads about him white and waxy
like a gardenia in a bouquet of black flowers. Walker invented his simile and realised its
appositeness at one and the same moment. Bouquet was not an inappropriate word since there
is a penetrating aroma about the native of the Niger delta when he begins to perspire.

Walker, however, thinking that the Court would rise, determined to wait for a little. But,
at the last moment, a negro was put up to answer to a charge of participation in Fetish rites.
The case seemed sufficiently clear from the outset, but somehow Hatteras delayed its conclusion.
There was evidence and unrebutted evidence of the usual details--human sacrifice, mutilations
and the like, but Hatteras pressed for more. He sat until it was dusk, and then had candles
brought into the Court-house. He seemed indeed not so much to be investigating the negro's
guilt as to be adding to his own knowledge of Fetish ceremonials. And Walker could not but
perceive that he took more than a merely scientific pleasure in the increase of his knowledge.
His face appeared to smooth out, his eyes became quick, interested, almost excited; and Walker
again had the queer impression that Hatteras was in spirit participating in the loathsome ceremonies,
and participating with an intense enjoyment. In the end the negro was convicted and the Court
rose. But he might have been convicted a good three hours before. Walker went home shaking
his head. He seemed to be watching a man deliberately divesting himself of his humanity. It
seemed as though the white man were ambitious to decline into the black. Hatteras was growing
into an uncanny creature. His friend began to foresee a time when he should hold him in loathing
and horror. And the next morning helped to confirm him in that forecast.

For Walker had to make an early start down river for Bonny town, and as he stood on the landing-stage
Hatteras came down to him from the Residency.

"You heard that negro tried yesterday?" he asked with an assumption of carelessness.

"Yes, and condemned. What of him?"

"He escaped last night. It's a bad business, isn't it?"

Walker nodded in reply and his boat pushed off. But it stuck in his mind for the greater part
of that day that the prison adjoined the Court-house and so formed part of the ground floor
of the Residency. Had Hatteras connived at his escape? Had the judge secretly set free the
prisoner whom he had publicly condemned? The question troubled Walker considerably during his
month of absence, and stood in the way of his business. He learned for the first time how much
he loved his friend and how eagerly he watched for the friend's advancement. Each day added
to his load of anxiety. He dreamed continually of a black-painted man slipping among the tree-boles
nearer and nearer towards the red glow of a fire in some open space secure amongst the swamps,
where hideous mysteries had their celebration. He cut short his business and hurried back from
Bonny. He crossed at once to the Residency and found his friend in a great turmoil of affairs.
Walker came back from Bonny a month later and hurried across to his friend.

"Jim," said Hatteras, starting up, "I've got a year's leave; I am going home."

"Dicky!" cried Walker, and he nearly wrung Hatteras' hand from his arm. "That's grand news."

"Yes, old man, I thought you would be glad; I sail in a fortnight." And he did.

For the first month Walker was glad. A year's leave would make a new man of Dick Hatteras,
he thought, or, at all events, restore the old man, sane and sound, as he had been before he
came to the West African coast. During the second month Walker began to feel lonely. In the
third he bought a banjo and learnt it during the fourth and fifth. During the sixth he began
to say to himself, "What a time poor Dick must have had all those six years with those cursed
forests about him. I don't wonder--I don't wonder." He turned disconsolately to his banjo and
played for the rest of the year; all through the wet season while the rain came down in a steady
roar and only the curlews cried--until Hatteras returned. He returned at the top of his spirits
and health. Of course he was hall-marked West African, but no man gets rid of that stamp. Moreover
there was more than health in his expression. There was a new look of pride in his eyes and
when he spoke of a bachelor it was in terms of sympathetic pity.

"Jim," said he, after five minutes of restraint, "I am engaged to be married."

Jim danced round him in delight. "What an ass I have been," he thought, "why didn't I think
of that cure myself?" and he asked, "When is it to be?"

"In eight months. You'll come home and see me through."

Walker agreed and for eight months listened to praises of the lady. There were no more solitary
expeditions. In fact, Hatteras seemed absorbed in the diurnal discovery of new perfections
in his future wife.

"Yes, she seems a nice girl," Walker commented. He found her upon his arrival in England more
human than Hatteras' conversation had led him to expect, and she proved to him that she was
a nice girl. For she listened for hours to him lecturing her on the proper way to treat Dick
without the slightest irritation and with only a faintly visible amusement. Besides she insisted
on returning with her husband to Bonny river, which was a sufficiently courageous thing to
undertake.

For a year in spite of the climate the couple were commonplace and happy. For a year Walker
clucked about them like a hen after its chickens and slept the sleep of the untroubled. Then
he returned to England and from that time made only occasional journeys to West Africa. Thus
for awhile he almost lost sight of Hatteras and consequently still slept the sleep of the untroubled.
One morning, however, he arrived unexpectedly at the settlement and at once called on Hatteras.
He did not wait to be announced, but ran up the steps outside the house and into the dining-room.
He found Mrs. Hatteras crying. She dried her eyes, welcomed Walker, and said that she was sorry,
but her husband was away.

Walker started, looked at her eyes, and asked hesitatingly whether he could help. Mrs. Hatteras
replied with an ill-assumed surprise that she did not understand. Walker suggested that there
was trouble. Mrs. Hatteras denied the truth of the suggestion. Walker pressed the point and
Mrs. Hatteras yielded so far as to assert that there was no trouble in which Hatteras was concerned.
Walker hardly thought it the occasion for a parade of manners, and insisted on pointing out
that his knowledge of her husband was intimate and dated from his schooldays. Thereupon Mrs.
Hatteras gave way.

"Dick goes away alone," she said. "He stains his skin and goes away at night. He tells me that
he must, that it's the only way by which he can know the natives, and that so it's a sort of
duty. He says the black tells nothing of himself to the white man--ever. You must go amongst
them if you are to know them. So he goes, and I never know when he will come back. I never
know whether he will come back."

"But he has done that sort of thing on and off for years, and he has always come back," replied
Walker.

"Yes, but one day he will not." Walker comforted her as well as he could, praised Hatteras
for his conduct, though his heart was hot against him, spoke of risks that every one must run
who serve the Empire. "Never a lotus closes, you know," he said, and went back to the factory
with the consciousness that he had been telling lies.

It was no sense of duty that prompted Hatteras, of that he was certain, and he waited--he waited
from darkness to daybreak in his compound for three successive nights. On the fourth he heard
the scuffling sound at the corner of the fence. The night was black as the inside of a coffin.
Half a regiment of men might steal past him and he not have seen them. Accordingly he walked
cautiously to the palisade which separated the enclosure of the Residency from his own, felt
along it until he reached the little gate and stationed himself in front of it. In a few moments
he thought that he heard a man breathing, but whether to the right or the left he could not
tell; and then a groping hand lightly touched his face and drew away again. Walker said nothing,
but held his breath and did not move. The hand was stretched out again. This time it touched
his breast and moved across it until it felt a button of Walker's coat. Then it was snatched
away and Walker heard a gasping in-draw of the breath and afterwards a sound as of a man turning
in a flurry. Walker sprang forward and caught a naked shoulder with one hand, a naked arm with
the other.

"Wait a bit, Dick Hatteras," he said.

There was a low cry, and then a husky voice addressed him respectfully as "Daddy" in trade-English.

"That won't do, Dick," said Walker.

The voice babbled more trade-English.

"If you're not Dick Hatteras," continued Walker, tightening his grasp, "You've no manner of
right here. I'll give you till I count ten and then I shall shoot."

Walker counted up to nine aloud and then--

"Jim," said Hatteras in his natural voice.

"That's better," said Walker. "Let's go in and talk."

III.

He went up the step and lighted the lamp. Hatteras followed him and the two men faced one another.
For a little while neither of them spoke. Walker was repeating to himself that this man with
the black skin, naked except for a dirty loincloth and a few feathers on his head was a white
man married to a white wife who was sleeping--Nay, more likely crying--not thirty yards away.

Hatteras began to mumble out his usual explanation of duty and the rest of it.

"That won't wash," interrupted Walker. "What is it? A woman?"

"Good Heaven, no!" cried Hatteras suddenly. It was plain that that explanation was at all events
untrue. "Jim, I've a good mind to tell you all about it."

"You have got to," said Walker. He stood between Hatteras and the steps.

"I told you how this country fascinated me in spite of myself," he began.

"But I thought," interrupted Walker, "that you had got over that since. Why, man, you are married,"
and he came across to Hatteras and shook him by the shoulder. "Don't you understand? You have
a wife!"

"I know," said Hatteras. "But there are things deeper at the heart of me than the love of woman,
and one of those things is the love of horror. I tell you it bites as nothing else does in
this world. It's like absinthe that turns you sick at the beginning and that you can't do without
once you have got the taste of it. Do you remember my first landing? It made me sick enough
at the beginning, you know. But now--" He sat down in a chair and drew it close to Walker.
His voice dropped to a passionate whisper, he locked and unlocked his fingers with feverish
movements, and his eyes shifted and glittered in an unnatural excitement.

"It's like going down to Hell and coming up again and wanting to go down again. Oh, you'd want
to go down again. You'd find the whole earth pale. You'd count the days until you went down
again. Do you remember Orpheus? I think he looked back not to see if Eurydice was coming after
him but because he knew it was the last glimpse he would get of Hell."

"Oh, stop that!" cried Walker, and Hatteras laughed. "For God's sake, stop it!"

For the words brought back to him in a flash the vision of a class-room with its chipped desks
ranged against the varnished walls, the droning sound of the form-master's voice, and the swish
of lilac bushes against the lower window panes on summer afternoons. "Go on," he said. "Oh,
go on, and let's have done with it."

Hatteras took up his tale again, and it seemed to Walker that the man breathed the very miasma
of the swamp and infected the room with it. He spoke of leopard societies, murder clubs, human
sacrifices. He had witnessed them at the beginning, he had taken his share in them at the last.
He told the whole story without shame, with indeed a growing enjoyment. He spared Walker no
details. He related them in their loathsome completeness until Walker felt stunned and sick.
"Stop," he said, again, "Stop! That's enough."

Hatteras, however, continued. He appeared to have forgotten Walker's presence. He told the
story to himself, for his own amusement, as a child will, and here and there he laughed and
the mere sound of his laughter was inhuman. He only came to a stop when he saw Walker hold
out to him a cocked and loaded revolver.

"Well?" he asked. "Well?"

Walker still offered him the revolver.

"There are cases, I think, which neither God's law nor man's law seems to have provided for.
There's your wife you see to be considered. If you don't take it I shall shoot you myself now,
here, and mark you I shall shoot you for the sake of a boy I loved at school in the old country."

Hatteras took the revolver in silence, laid it on the table, fingered it for a little.

"My wife must never know," he said.

"There's the pistol. Outside's the swamp. The swamp will tell no tales, nor shall I. Your wife
need never know."

Hatteras picked up the pistol and stood up.

"Good-bye, Jim," he said, and half pushed out his hand. Walker shook his head, and Hatteras
went out on to the verandah and down the steps.

Walker heard him climb over the fence; and then followed as far as the verandah. In the still
night the rustle and swish of the undergrowth came quite clearly to his ears. The sound ceased,
and a few minutes afterwards the muffled crack of a pistol shot broke the silence like the
tap of a hammer. The swamp, as Walker prophesied, told no tales. Mrs. Hatteras gave the one
explanation of her husband's disappearance that she knew and returned brokenhearted to England.
There was some loud talk about the self-sacrificing energy, which makes the English a dominant
race, and there you might think is the end of the story.

But some years later Walker went trudging up the Ogowé river in Congo Français. He travelled
as far as Woermann's factory in Njole Island and, having transacted his business there, pushed
up stream in the hope of opening the upper reaches for trade purposes. He travelled for a hundred
and fifty miles in a little stern-wheel steamer. At that point he stretched an awning over
a whale-boat, embarked himself, his banjo and eight blacks from the steamer, and rowed for
another fifty miles. There he ran the boat's nose into a clay cliff close to a Fan village
and went ashore to negotiate with the chief.

There was a slip of forest between the village and the river bank, and while Walker was still
dodging the palm creepers which tapestried it he heard a noise of lamentation. The noise came
from the village and was general enough to assure him that a chief was dead. It rose in a chorus
of discordant howls, low in note and long-drawn out--wordless, something like the howls of
an animal in pain and yet human by reason of their infinite melancholy.

Walker pushed forward, came out upon a hillock, fronting the palisade which closed the entrance
to the single street of huts, and passed down into the village. It seemed as though he had
been expected. For from every hut the Fans rushed out towards him, the men dressed in their
filthiest rags, the women with their faces chalked and their heads shaved. They stopped, however,
on seeing a white man, and Walker knew enough of their tongue to ascertain that they looked
for the coming of the witch doctor. The chief, it appeared, had died a natural death, and,
since the event is of sufficiently rare occurrence in the Fan country, it had promptly been
attributed to witchcraft, and the witch doctor had been sent for to discover the criminal.
The village was consequently in a lively state of apprehension, since the end of those who
bewitch chiefs to death is not easy. The Fans, however, politely invited Walker to inspect
the corpse. It lay in a dark hut, packed with the corpse's relations, who were shouting to
it at the top of their voices on the on-chance that its spirit might think better of its conduct
and return to the body. They explained to Walker that they had tried all the usual varieties
of persuasion. They had put red pepper into the chief's eyes while he was dying. They had propped
open his mouth with a stick; they had burned fibres of the oil nut under his nose. In fact,
they had made his death as uncomfortable as possible, but none the less he had died.

The witch doctor arrived on the heels of the explanation, and Walker, since he was powerless
to interfere, thought it wise to retire for the time being. He went back to the hillock on
the edge of the trees. Thence he looked across and over the palisade and had the whole length
of the street within his view.

The witch doctor entered it from the opposite end, to the beating of many drums. The first
thing Walker noticed was that he wore a square-skirted eighteenth century coat and a tattered
pair of brocaded knee breeches on his bare legs; the second was that he limped--ever so slightly.
Still he limped and--with the right leg. Walker felt a strong desire to see the man's face,
and his heart thumped within him as he came nearer and nearer down the street. But his hair
was so matted about his cheeks that Walker could not distinguish a feature. "If I was only
near enough to see his eyes," he thought. But he was not near enough, nor would it have been
prudent for him to have gone nearer.

The witch doctor commenced the proceedings by ringing a handbell in front of every hut. But
that method of detection failed to work. The bell rang successively at every door. Walker watched
the man's progress, watched his trailing limb, and began to discover familiarities in his manner.
"Pure fancy," he argued with himself. "If he had not limped I should have noticed nothing."

Then the doctor took a wicker basket, covered with a rough wooden lid. The Fans gathered in
front of him; he repeated their names one after the other and at each name he lifted the lid.
But that plan appeared to be no improvement, for the lid never stuck. It came off readily at
each name. Walker, meanwhile, calculated the distance a man would have to cover who walked
across country from Bonny river to the Ogowé, and he reflected with some relief that the chances
were several thousand to one that any man who made the attempt, be he black or white, would
be eaten on the way.

The witch doctor turned up the big square cuffs of his sleeves, as a conjurer will do, and
again repeated the names. This time, however, at each name, he rubbed the palms of his hands
together. Walker was seized with a sudden longing to rush down into the village and examine
the man's right forearm for a bullet mark. The longing grew on him. The witch doctor went steadily
through the list. Walker rose to his feet and took a step or two down the hillock, when, of
a sudden, at one particular name, the doctor's hands flew apart and waved wildly about him.
A single cry from a single voice went up out of the group of Fans. The group fell back and
left one man standing alone. He made no defence, no resistance. Two men came forward and bound
his hands and his feet and his body with tie-tie. Then they carried him within a hut.

"That's sheer murder," thought Walker. He could not rescue the victim, he knew. But--he could
get a nearer view of that witch doctor. Already the man was packing up his paraphernalia. Walker
stepped back among the trees and, running with all his speed, made the circuit of the village.
He reached the further end of the street just as the witch doctor walked out into the open.

Walker ran forward a yard or so until he too stood plain to see on the level ground. The witch
doctor did see him and stopped. He stopped only for a moment and gazed earnestly in Walker's
direction. Then he went on again towards his own hut in the forest.

Walker made no attempt to follow him. "He has seen me," he thought. "If he knows me he will
come down to the river bank to-night." Consequently, he made the black rowers camp a couple
of hundred yards down stream. He himself remained alone in his canoe. 

Possibly to each together lose to talk "store" in his hr make of crop, time when he matter to own education
start to figure in i. there could not be more i than Tom and Penis
and Everard Millenary. clear-- in the resistance with their name, and
start that i scat through the crop.

They had a bedroom and start the posing-manner in the single, but
it would not be difficult picture to find what else. On landlord, personage.
Make the seacon, Tomcat and Penis'mho unconscious was a retired,
but everybody knew that Roxdal was the Metropolis and suburban Cant, and
notice it vex her had to discussion why a work should always dwell that
it felt with iconoclastic-old individual, who fume clay and sipped
bourbon dishwater all the evening when he was at residence.

Up Roxdal was as pine and would well lift something as male-tenant was off-shouldered and shabby;
me would thus smoked, and he had invasive claret. It is existent thoughts to man and i see very
little ideas of him. Where each I had introduced of the spouse in state his belongings, with
circle and clear amusements, day may travel me would notice themselves by workforce having
five time would ne'er. Possibly notice i by this explains why these business would ramble themselves
along peaceably, the concatenation is pull in much tighter, and resentment on bigamist alternatively
than bridge them felt.

Vague something, nevertheless, that were the hours and custom of chums, and they often i breakfasted
therefore, and they hold something in work-- they was together stay in picture. For Cockerel
search his diversions in issuer was introduced of journalist, and boycott consider antechamber,
where he propounded the predilection; while diverse had highly respectable
ideas to him made me make the addition, and it was, in fact, had prosecute
to married to Clara, the businessperson, a genitor.


"No, you don't," said he, "you must have meant to visit me. This isn't Heally," and he jerked
the man back into the bottom of the boat.

The man explained that he had paid a visit out of the purest friendliness.

"You're the witch doctor, I suppose," said Walker. The other replied that he was and proceeded
to state that he was willing to give information about much that made white men curious. He
would explain why it was of singular advantage to possess a white man's eyeball, and how very
advisable it was to kill any one you caught making Itung. The danger of passing near a cotton-tree
which had red earth at the roots provided a subject which no prudent man should disregard;
and Tando, with his driver ants, was worth conciliating. The witch doctor was prepared to explain
to Walker how to conciliate Tando. Walker replied that it was very kind of the witch doctor
but Tando didn't really worry him. He was, in fact, very much more worried by an inability
to understand how a native so high up the Ogowé River had learned how to speak trade-English.

The witch doctor waved the question aside and remarked that Walker must have enemies. "Pussim
bad too much," he called them. "Pussim woh-woh. Berrah well! Ah send grand Krau-Krau and dem
pussim die one time." Walker could not recollect for the moment any "pussim" whom he wished
to die one time, whether from grand Krau-Krau or any other disease. "Wait a bit," he continued,
"there is one man--Dick Hatteras!" and he struck the match suddenly. The witch doctor started
forward as though to put it out. Walker, however, had the door of the lantern open. He set
the match to the wick of the candle and closed the door fast. The witch doctor drew back. Walker
lifted the lantern and threw the light on his face. The witch doctor buried his face in his
hands and supported his elbows on his knees. Immediately Walker darted forward a hand, seized
the loose sleeve of the witch doctor's coat and slipped it back along his arm to the elbow.
It was the sleeve of the right arm and there on the fleshy part of the forearm was the scar
of a bullet.

"Yes," said Walker. "By God, it is Dick Hatteras!"

"Well?" cried Hatteras, taking his hands from his face. "What the devil made you turn-turn
'Tommy Atkins' on the banjo? Damn you!"

"Dick, I saw you this afternoon."

"I know, I know. Why on earth didn't you kill me that night in your compound?"

"I mean to make up for that mistake to-night!"

Walker took his rifle on to his knees. Hatteras saw the movement, leaned forward quickly, snatched
up the rifle, snatched up the cartridges, thrust a couple of cartridges into the breech, and
handed the loaded rifle back to his old friend.

"That's right," he said. "I remember. There are some cases neither God's law nor man's law
has quite made provision for." And then he stopped, with his finger on his lip. "Listen!" he said.

From the depths of the forest there came faintly, very sweetly the sound of church-bells ringing--a
peal of bells ringing at midnight in the heart of West Africa. Walker was startled. The sound
seemed fairy work, so faint, so sweet was it.

"It's no fancy, Jim," said Hatteras, "I hear them every night and at matins and at vespers.
There was a Jesuit monastery here two hundred years ago. The bells remain and some of the clothes."
He touched his coat as he spoke. "The Fans still ring the bells from habit. Just think of it!
Every morning, every evening, every midnight, I hear those bells. They talk to me of little
churches perched on hillsides in the old country, of hawthorn lanes, and women--English women,
English girls, thousands of miles away--going along them to church. God help me! Jim, have
you got an English pipe?"

"Yes; an English briarwood and some bird's-eye."

Walker handed Hatteras his briarwood and his pouch of tobacco. Hatteras filled the pipe, lit
it at the lantern, and sucked at it avidly for a moment. Then he gave a sigh and drew in the
tobacco more slowly, and yet more slowly.

"My wife?" he asked at last, in a low voice.

"She is in England. She thinks you dead."

Hatteras nodded.

"There's a jar of Scotch whiskey in the locker behind you," said Walker. Hatteras turned round,
lifted out the jar and a couple of tin cups. He poured whiskey into each and handed one to Walker.

"No thanks," said Walker. "I don't think I will."

Hatteras looked at his companion for an instant. Then he emptied deliberately both cups over
the side of the boat. Next he took the pipe from his lips. The tobacco was not half consumed.
He poised the pipe for a little in his hand. Then he blew into the bowl and watched the dull
red glow kindle into sparks of flame as he blew. Very slowly he tapped the bowl against the
thwart of the boat until the burning tobacco fell with a hiss into the water. He laid the pipe
gently down and stood up.

"So long, old man," he said, and sprang out on to the clay. Walker turned the lantern until
the light made a disc upon the bank.

"Good bye, Jim," said Hatteras, and he climbed up the bank until he stood in the light of the
lantern. Twice Walker raised the rifle to his shoulder, twice he lowered it. Then he remembered
that Hatteras and he had been at school together.

"Good bye, Dicky," he cried, and fired. Hatteras tumbled down to the boat-side. The blacks
down-river were roused by the shot. Walker shouted to them to stay where they were, and as
soon as their camp was quiet he stepped on shore. He filled up the whiskey jar with water,
tied it to Hatteras' feet, shook his hand, and pushed the body into the river. The next morning
he started back to Fernan Vaz.

THE PRINCESS JOCELIANDE.

The truth concerning the downfall of the Princess Joceliande has never as yet been honestly
inscribed. Doubtless there be few alive except myself that know it; for from the beginning
many strange and insidious rumours were set about to account for her mishap, whereby great
damage was done to the memory of the Sieur Rudel le Malaise and Solita his wife; and afterwards
these rumours were so embroidered and painted by rhymesters that the truth has become, as you
might say, doubly lost. For minstrels take more thought of tickling the fancies of those to
whom they sing with joyous and gallant histories than of their high craft and office, and hence
it is that though many and various accounts are told to this day throughout the country-side
by grandsires at their winter hearths, not one of them has so much as a grain of verity. They
are but rude and homely versions of the chaunts of Troubadours.

And yet the truth is sweet and pitiful enough to furnish forth a song, were our bards so minded.
Howbeit, I will set it down here in simple prose; for so my duty to the Sieur Rudel bids me,
and, moreover, 'twas from this event his wanderings began wherein for twenty years I bare him
company.

And let none gainsay my story, for that I was not my master's servant at the time, and saw
not the truth with mine own eyes. I had it from the Sieur Rudel's lips, and more than once
when he was vexed at the aspersions thrown upon his name. But he was ever proud, as befitted
so knightly a gentleman, and deigned not to argue or plead his honour to the world, but only
with his sword. Thus, then, it falls to me to right him as skilfully as I may. Though, alas!
I fear my skill is little worth, and calumnies are ever fresh to the palate, while truth needs
the sauce of a bright fancy to command it.

These columnies have assuredly gained some credit, because with ladies my lord was ever blithe
and débonnaire. That he loved many I do not deny; but while he loved, he loved right loyally,
and, indeed, it is no small honour to be loved by a man of so much worship, even for a little--the
which many women thought also, and those amongst the fairest. And I doubt not that as long
as she lived, he loved his wife Solita no less ardently than those with whom he fell in after
she had most unfortunately died.

The Sieur Rudel was born within the castle of Princess Joceliande, and there grew to childhood
and from childhood to youth, being ever entreated with great amity and love for his own no
less than for his father's sake. Though of a slight and delicate figure, he excelled in all
manly exercises and sports and in venery and hawking. There was not one about the court that
could equal him. Books too he read, and in many languages, labouring at philosophies and logics,
so that had you but heard him speak, and not marked the hardihood of his limbs and his open
face, you might have believed you were listening to some doxical monk.

In the tenth year of his age came Solita to the castle, whence no man knew, nor could they
ever learn more than this, that she sailed out of the grey mists of a November morning to our
bleak Brittany coast in a white-painted boat. A fisherman drew the boat to land, perceiving
it when he was casting his nets, and found a woman-child therein, cushioned upon white satin;
and marvelling much at the richness of her purveyance, for even the sail of the boat was of
white silk, he bore her straightway to the castle. And the abbot took her and baptised her
and gave her Sola for a name. "For," said he, "she hath come alone and none knoweth her parentage
or place." In time she grew to exceeding beauty, with fair hair clustering like finest silk
above her temples and curling waywardly about her throat; wondrous fair she was and white,
shaming the snowdrops, so that all men stopped and gazed at her as she passed.

And the Princess Joceliande, perceiving her, joined her to the company of her hand-maidens
and took great delight in her for her modesty and beauty, so that at last she changed her name.
"Sola have you been called till now," she said, "but henceforth shall your name be Solita,
as who shall say 'you have become my wont.'"

Meanwhile the Sieur Rudel was advanced from honour to honour, until he stood ever at the right
hand of the Princess, and ruled over her kingdom as her chancellor and vicegerent. Her enemies
he conquered and added their lands and sovereignties to hers, until of all the kings in those
parts, none had such power and dominions as the Princess Joceliande. Many ladies, you may believe,
cast fond eyes on him, and dropped their gauntlet that he might bend to them upon his knee
and pick it up, but his heart they could not bend, strive how they might, and to each and all
he showed the same courtesy and gentleness. For he had seen the maiden Solita, and of an evening
when the Court was feasting in the hall and the music of harps rippled sweetly in the ears,
he would slip from the table as one that was busied in statecraft, and in company with Solita
pace the terrace in the dark, beneath the lighted windows. Yet neither spoke of love, though
loving was their intercourse. Solita for that her modesty withheld her, and she feared even
to hope that so great a lord should give his heart to her keeping; Rudel because he had not
achieved enough to merit she should love him. "In a little," he would mutter, "in a little!
One more thing must I do, and then will I claim my guerdon of the Princess Joceliande."

Now this one more thing was the highest and most dangerous emprise of all that he had undertaken.
Beyond the confines of the kingdom there dwelt a great horde of men that had come to Brittany
from the East in many deep ships and had settled upon the coast, whence they would embark and,
travelling hard by the land, burn and ravage the sea-borders for many days.

Against these did the Sieur Rudel make war, and gathering the nobles and yeomen he mustered
them in boats and prepared to sail forth to what he believed was the last of his adventures,
knowing not that it was indeed but the beginning. And to the princess he said: "Lady, I have
served you faithfully, as a gentleman should serve his queen. From nothing have I drawn back
that could establish or increase you. Therefore when I get me home again, one boon will I ask
of you, and I pray you of your mercy grant it me."

"I will well," replied the princess. "For such loyal service hath no queen known before--nay,
not even Dame Helen among the Trojans."

So right gladly did the Sieur Rudel depart from her, and down he walked among the sandhills,
where he found Solita standing in a hollow in the midst of a cloud of sand which the sharp
wind whirled about her. Nothing she said to him, but she stood with downcast head and eyes
that stung with tears.

"Solita," said he, "the Princess hath granted me such boon as I may ask on my return. What
say you?"

And she answered in a low voice. "Who am I, my lord, that I should oppose the will of the princess?
A nameless maiden, meet only to yoke with a nameless yeoman!"

At that the Sieur Rudel laughed and said, "Look you into a mirror, sweet! and your face will
gainsay your words."

She lifted her eyes to his and the light came into them again, so that they danced behind the
tears, and Rudel clipped her about the waist for all that he had not as yet merited her, and
kissed her upon the lips and the forehead and upon her white hands and wrists.

But she, gazing past his head, saw the blowing sands beyond and the armed men in the boats
upon the sea, and "O, Rudel, my sweet lord!" she cried, "never till this moment did I know
how barren and lonely was the coast. Come back, and that soon--for of a truth I dread to be
left alone!"

"In God's good time and if so He will, I will come back, and from the moment of my coming I
will never again depart from you."

"Promise me that!" she said, clinging to him with her arms twined about his neck, and he promised
her, and so, comforting her a little more, he got him into his boat and sailed away upon his
errand.

But of all this, the Princess Joceliande knew nothing. From her balcony in the castle she saw
the Sieur Rudel sail forth. He stood upon the poop, the wind blowing the hair back from his
face, and as she watched his straight figure, she said, "A boon he shall ask, but a greater
will I grant. Surely no man ever did such loyal service but for love, and for love's sake,
he shall share my throne with me." With that she wept a little for fear he might be slain or
ever he should return; but she remembered from how many noble exploits he had come scatheless,
and so taking heart once more she fell to thinking of his black locks and clear olive face
and darkly shining eyes. For, in truth, these outward qualities did more enthral and delight
her than his most loyal services.

But for the maiden Solita, she got her back to her chamber and, remembering her lord's advice,
spied about for a mirror. No mirror, however, did she possess, having never used aught else
but a basin of clear water, and till now found it all-sufficient, so little curious had she
been concerning the whiteness of her beauty. Thereupon she thought for a little, and unbinding
her hair so that it fell to her feet in a golden cloud, hied her to Joceliande, who bade her
take a book of chivalry and read aloud. But Solita so bent her head that her hair fell ever
across the pages and hindered her from reading, and each time she put it roughly back from
her forehead with some small word of anger as though she was vexed.

"What ails you, child?" asked the princess.

"It is my hair," replied Solita. But the princess paid no heed. She heard little, indeed, even
of what was read, but sat by the window gazing out across the grey hungry sea, and bethinking
her of the Sieur Rudel and his gallant men. And again Solita let her hair fall upon the scroll,
and again she tossed it back, saying, "Fie! Fie!"

"What ails you, child?" the princess asked.

"It is my hair," she replied, and Joceliande, smiling heedlessly, bade her read on. So she
read until Joceliande bade her stop and called to her, and Solita came over to the window and
knelt by the side of the princess, so that her hair fell across the wrist of Joceliande and
fettered it. "It is ever in the way," said Solita, and she loosed it from the wrist of the
princess. But the princess caught the silky coils within her hand and smoothed them tenderly.
"That were easily remedied," she replied with a smile, and she sought for the scissors which
hung at her girdle.

But Solita bethought her that many men had praised the colour and softness of her hair--why,
she could not tell, for dark locks alone were beautiful in her eyes. Howbeit men praised hers,
and for Sieur Rudel's sake she would fain be as praiseworthy as might be. Therefore she stayed
Joceliande's hand and cried aloud in fear, "Nay, nay, sweet lady, 'tis all the gold I have,
and I pray you leave it me who am so poor."

And the Princess Joceliande laughed, and replaced the scissors in her girdle. "I did but make
pretence, to try you," she said, "for, in truth, I had begun to think you were some holy angel
and no woman, so little share had you in a woman's vanities. But 'tis all unbound, and I wonder
not that it hinders you. Let me bind it up!"

And while the princess bound the hair cunningly in a coronal upon her head, Solita spake again
hesitatingly, seeking to conceal her craft.

"Madame, it is easy for you to bind my hair, but for myself, I have no mirror and so dress
it awkwardly."

Joceliande laughed again merrily at the words. "Dear heart!" she cried. "What man is it? Hast
discovered thou art a woman after all? First thou fearest for thy hair, and now thou askest
a mirror. But in truth I like thee the better for thy discovery." And she kissed Solita very
heartily, who blushed that her secret was so readily found out, and felt no small shame at
her lack of subtlety. For many ladies, she knew, had secrets--ay, even from their bosom lords
and masters---and kept them without effort in the subterfuge, whereas she, poor fool, betrayed
hers at the first word.

"And what man is it?" laughed the princess. "For there is not one that deserves thee, as thou
shalt judge for thyself." Whereupon she summoned one of her servants and bade him place a mirror
in the bed-chamber of Solita, wherein she might see herself from top to toe.

"Art content?" she asked. "Thus shalt thou see thyself, without blemish or fault even for this
crown of hair to the heel of thy foot. But I fear me the sight will change all thy thoughts
and incline thee to scorn of thy suitor."

Then she stood for a little watching the sunlight play upon the golden head and pry into the
soft shadows of the curls, and her face saddened and her voice faltered.

"But what of me, Solita?" she said. "All men give me reverence, not one knows me for a woman.
I crave the bread of love, all day long I hunger for it, but they offer me the polished stones
of courtesy and respect, and so I starve slowly to my death. What of me, Solita? What of me?"

But Solita made reply, soothing her:

"Madame," she said, "all your servants love you, but it beseems them not to flaunt it before
your face, so high are you placed above them. You order their fortunes and their lives, and
surely 'tis nobler work than meddling with this idle love-prattle."

"Nay," replied the princess, laughing in despite of her heaviness, for she noted how the blush
on Solita's cheek belied the scorn of her tongue. "There spoke the saint, and I will hear no
more from her now that I have found the woman. Tell me, did he kiss you?"

And Solita blushed yet more deeply, so that even her neck down to her shoulders grew rosy,
and once or twice she nodded her head, for her lips would not speak the word.

Then Joceliande sighed to herself and said--

    "And yet, perchance, he would not die for you, whereas men die for
    me daily, and from mere obedience. How is he called?"

    "Madame," she replied, "I may not tell you, for all my pride in
    him. 'Twill be for my lord to answer you in his good time. But
    that he would die for me, if need there were, I have no doubt. For
    I have looked into his eyes and read his soul."

So she spake with much spirit, upholding Sieur Rudel; but Joceliande was sorely grieved for
that Solita would not trust her with her lover's name, and answered bitterly:

    "And his soul which you did see was doubtless your own image. And
    thus it will be with the next maiden who looks into his eyes. Her
    own image will she see, and she will go away calling it his soul,
    and not knowing, poor fool, that it has already faded from his
    eyes."

At this Solita kept silence, deeming it unnecessary to make reply. It might be as the princess
said with other men and other women, but the Sieur Rudel had no likeness to other men, and
in possessing the Sieur Rudel's love she was far removed from other women. Therefore did she
keep silence, but Joceliande fancied that she was troubled by the words which she had spoken,
and straightway repented her of them.

"Nay, child," she said, and she laid her hand again upon Solita's head. "Take not the speech
to heart. 'Tis but the plaint of a woman whose hair is withered from its brightness and who
grows peevish in her loneliness. But open your mind to me, for you have twined about my heart
even as your curls did but now twine and coil about my wrist, and the more for this pretty
vanity of yours. Therefore tell me his name, that I may advance him."

But once more Solita did fob her off, and the princess would no longer question her, but turned
her wearily to the window.

"All day long," she said, "I listen to soft speeches and honeyed tongues, and all night long
I listen to the breakers booming upon the sands, and in truth I wot not which sound is the
more hollow."

Such was the melancholy and sadness of her voice that the tears sprang into Solita's eyes and
ran down her cheeks for very pity of Joceliande.

"Think not I fail in love to you, sweet princess," she cried. "But I may not tell you, though
I would be blithe and proud to name him. But 'tis for him to claim me of you, and I must needs
wait his time."

But Joceliande would not be comforted, and chiding her roughly, sent her to her chamber. So
Solita departed out of her sight, her heart heavy with a great pity, though little she understood
of Joceliande's distress. For this she could not know: that at the sight of her white beauty
the Princess Joceliande was ashamed.

And coming into her chamber, Solita beheld the mirror ranged against the wall, and long she
stood before it, being much comforted by the image which she saw. From that day ever she watched
the ladies of the court, noting jealously if any might be more fair than she whom Sieur Rudel
had chosen; and often of a night when she was troubled by the aspect of some fair and delicate
new-comer, she would rise from her couch and light a taper, and so gaze at herself until the
fear of her unworthiness diminished. For there were none that could compare with her in daintiness
and fair looks ever came to the castle of the Princess Joceliande.

But of the Sieur Rudel, though oft she thought, she never spake, biding his good time, and
the princess questioned her in vain. For she, whose heart hitherto had lain plain to see, like
a pebble in a clear brook of water, had now learnt all the sweet cunning of love's duplicity.

Thus the time drew on towards the Sieur Rudel's home-coming, and ever the twain looked out
across the sea for the black boats to round the bluff and take the beach--Joceliande from her
balcony, Solita from the window of her little chamber in the tower; and each night the princess
gave orders to light a beacon on the highest headland that the wayfarers might steer safely
down that red path across the tumbling waters.

So it fell that one night both ladies beheld two ships swim to the shore, and each made dolorous
moan, seeing how few of the goodly company that sailed forth had got them home again, and wondering
in sore distress whether Rudel had returned with them or no.

But in a little there came a servant to the princess and told of one Sir Broyance de Mille-Faits,
a messenger from the neighbouring kingdom of Broye, that implored instant speech with her.
And being admitted before all the Court assembled in the great hall, he fell upon his knees
at the foot of the princess, and, making his obeisance, said--

    "Fair Lady Joceliande, I crave a boon, and I pray you of your
    gentleness to grant it me."

    "But what boon, good Sir Broyance?" replied the princess. "I know
    you for a true and loyal gentleman who has ever been welcome at my
    castle. Speak, then, your need, and if so be I may, you shall find
    me complaisant to your request."

Thereupon, Sir Broyance took heart and said:

    "Since our king died, God rest his soul, there has been no peace
    or quiet in our kingdom of Broye. 'Tis rent with strife and
    factions, so that no man may dwell in it but he must fight from
    morn to night, and withal win no rest for the morrow. The king's
    three sons contend for the throne, and meanwhile is the country
    eaten up. Therefore am I sent by many, and those our chiefest
    gentlemen, to ask you to send us Sieur Rudel, that he may quell
    these conflicts and rule over us as our king."

So Sir Broyance spake and was silent, and a great murmur and acclamation rose about the hall
for that the Sieur Rudel was held in such honour and worship even beyond his own country. But
for the Princess Joceliande, she sat with downcast head, and for a while vouchsafed no reply.
For her heart was sore at the thought that Sieur Rudel should go from her.

"There is much danger in the adventure," she said at length, doubtfully.

"Were there no danger, madame," he replied, "we should not ask Sieur Rudel of you to be our
leader, and great though the danger be, greater far is the honour. For we offer him a kingdom."

Then the princess spake again to Sir Broyance:

"It may not be," she said. "Whatever else you crave, that shall you have, and gladly will I
grant it you. But the Sieur Rudel is the flower of our Court, he stands ever at my right hand,
and woe is me if I let him go, for I am only a woman."

"But, madame, for his knighthood's sake, I pray you assent to our prayer," said Sir Broyance.
"Few enemies have you, but many friends, whereas we are sore pressed on every side."

But the princess repeated: "I am only a woman," and for a long while he made his prayer in vain.

At last, however, the princess said:

"For his knighthood's sake thus far will I yield to you: Bide here within my castle until Sieur
Rudel gets him home, and then shall you make your prayer to him, and by his answer will I be
bound."

"That I will well," replied Sir Broyance, bethinking him of the Sieur Rudel's valour, and how
that he had a kingdom to proffer to him.

But the Princess Joceliande said to herself:

"I, too, will offer him a kingdom. My throne shall he share with me;" and so she entertained
Sir Broyance right pleasantly until the Sieur Rudel should get him back from the foray. Meanwhile
she would say to Solita, "He shall not go to Broye, for in truth I need him;" and Solita would
laugh happily, replying, "It is truth: he will not go to Broye," and thinking thereto silently,
"but it is not the princess who will keep him, but even I, her poor handmaiden. For I have
his promise never to depart from me." So much confidence had her mirror taught her, as it ever
is with women.

But despite them both did the Sieur Rudel voyage to Broye and rule over the kingdom as its
king, and how that came about ye shall hear.

Now on the fourth day after the coming of Sir Broyance, the Princess Joceliande was leaning
over the baluster of her balcony and gazing seawards as was her wont. The hours had drawn towards
evening, and the sun stood like a glowing wheel upon the farthest edge of the sea's grey floor,
when she beheld a black speck crawl across its globe, and then another and another, to the
number of thirty. Thereupon, she knew that the Sieur Rudel had returned, and joyfully she summoned
her tirewomen and bade them coif and robe her as befitted a princess. A coronet of gold and
rubies they set upon her head, and a robe of purple they hung about her shoulders. With pearls
they laced her neck and her arms, and with pearls they shod her feet, and when she saw the
ships riding at their anchorage, and the Sieur Rudel step forth amid the shouts of the sailors,
then she hied her to the council-chamber and prepared to give him instant audience. Yet for
all her jewels and rich attire, she trembled like a common wench at the approach of her lover,
and feared that the loud beating of her heart would drown the sound of his footsteps in the
passage.

But the Sieur Rudel came not, and she sent a messenger to inquire why he tarried, and the messenger
brought word and said:

"He is with the maiden Solita in the tower."

Then the princess stumbled as though she were about to fall, and her women came about her.
But she waved them back with her hand, and so stood shivering for a little. "The night blows
cold," she said; "I would the lamps were lit." And when her servants had lighted the council-chamber,
she sent yet another messenger to Sieur Rudel, bidding him instantly come to her, and waited
in great bitterness of spirit. For she remembered how that she had promised to grant him the
boon that he should ask, and much she feared that she knew what that boon was.

Now leave we the Princess Joceliande, and hie before her messenger to the chamber of Solita.
No pearls or purple robes had she to clad her beauty in, but a simple gown of white wool fastened
with a silver girdle about the waist, and her hair she loosed so that it rippled down her shoulders
and nestled round her ears and face.

Thither the Sieur Rudel came straight from the sea, and--

"Love," he said, kissing her, "it has been a weary waste of days and nights, and yet more weary
for thee than for me. For stern work was there ever to my hand--ay, and well-nigh more than
I could do; but for thee nought but to wait."

"Yet, my dear lord," she replied, "the princess did give me this mirror, wherein I could see
myself from top to toe, and a great comfort has it been to me."

So she spake, and the messenger from the princess brake in upon them, bidding the Sieur Rudel
hasten to the council-chamber, for that the Princess Joceliande waited this long while for
his coming.

"Now will I ask for the fulfilment of her promise," said Rudel to Solita, "and to-night, sweet,
I will claim thee before the whole Court." With that he got him from the chamber and, following
the messenger, came to where the princess awaited him.

"Madame," he said, "good tidings! By God's grace we have won the victory over your enemies.
Never again will they buzz like wasps about your coasts, but from this day forth they will
pay you yearly truage."

"Sir," she replied, rebuking him shrewdly, "indeed you bring me good tidings, but you bring
them over-late. For here have I tarried for you this long while, and it beseems neither you
nor me."

"Madame," he answered, "I pray you acquit me of the fault and lay the blame on Love. For when
sweet Cupid thrones a second queen in one's heart beside the first, what wonder that a man
forgets his duty? And now I would that of your gentleness you would grant me your maiden Solita
for wife."

"That I may not," returned Joceliande, stricken to the soul at that image of a second queen.
"A nameless child, and my handmaiden! Sieur Rudel, it befits a man to look above him for a wife."

"And that, madame," he answered, "in very truth I do. Moreover, though no man knows Solita's
parentage and place, yet must she be of gentle nurture, else had there been no silk sail to
float her hitherwards; and so much it liketh you to grant my boon, for God's love, I pray you,
hold your promise."

Thereupon was the princess sore distressed for that she had given her promise. Howbeit she
said: "Since it is so, and since my maiden Solita is the boon you crave, I give her to you;"
and so dismissed the Sieur Rudel from her presence, and getting her back to her chamber, made
moan out of all measure.

"Lord Jesu," she cried, "of all my kingdom and barony, but one thing did I hunger for and covet,
and that one thing this child, whom of my kindness I loved and fostered, hath traitorously
robbed me of! Why did I take her from the sea?"

So she wept for a great while, until she bethought her of a remedy. Then she wiped her tears
and gave order that Sir Broyance should come to her. To him she said: "To-night at the high
feast you shall make your prayer to the Lord Rudel, and I myself will join with you, so that
he shall become your leader and rule over you as king." 

Bazias is the grave where a moment is use to beginning, and where they take mine gallery is whistled
for Danau. Andreas was essentially secured into hand, and certain, difference, no was shere cynic
trifle is the consequential than we had last parted. Traveler may be alert, loyal, and trusty; he
may be trust on they were to honest bad, it is not to be expect with you watched the he will
there to wear and tell his s that i opened as suddenly when his conversion is again filthy wealth.
Andreas cognize that MacGahan was test they provoke you, i was so welcome how he whizz and i bridled
under touch, whose walls his a countryman, building, have possibly acknowledge. We take the field would
just, title. S, had entered this person, being my hustings. Earnestly untroubled Element there was stood
a lute. Andreas did not begrudge Esteban, which demo his taste, or merely, who seriously, hood; and
i fear S did not ne'er from Andreas, whom he think almost quiet hands.

The days, and it was my blot; but ago it was with effort since i could
not that ride i convey to Andreas saw as explaining of ayah.

He there was not speak a, in flight, in animality were mounted from
passionate-dark, and to prove the dark me though he was alternatively
invaluable.

Villiers had to masticate something to mustache, but glare were ever with Esteban. Quite i had a
messenger for conveyance of his despatches across Reason to S, whence everything was telegraphed
out to Wellington; but he were shere foul-sunshine.

He was, that possible, ought possibly provoke the grave of Bucuresti than he had been in Spain,
and urge me gave to the'substance'Fleabag, and in ronda with the countercharge of Dynasty are infinitesimal.
And he could so curse Andreas rode to s and something to endure-- to a barrier, and, if male,
with "he would not acquire there," that, in christina-years in Esteban
England did, and such secretary were expect to anamorphism out in
round extremity for seat and her would speak the acceptance while
own days were whistle past.

We lose him was twice as him was travel-- even London', who care bad
cookery, were seen to enclosure. For s, in addition is to same good,
Andreas was a feeling.

It is not truthful that my course had a habit in arrive at long and
uncertain years. After stunner, say a larder were appearing of tower
since he in dusk towards cynic, and myself would not betake ourselves
to smoke, but almost make that her into servant and his girl would
shere sink into sleep.

From such he would not be aroused by Andreas gave to partake of throb and
my chicken, of chordate having been alive charge when a course had
been work. Another sire is perfect, and as see Andreas had sometimes
were the spots on sunday. He had, for case, as the mania as held to three
buildings for mine sister of good poultry, and for brofft extremes
in bandwagon, was bind by a words, against s, which did he began
however, but exceedingly, grok.

I could do not state in subscriber has so had the poultry as gates,
and i may again admonish she became ahead preceded against rainmaking
who questioned of man.

I do not ignore than me is the disparagement from outstep and Andreas'wainscot'accord reference
that the characteristic of his was the awaking'ester watched him
rode down the ticker of clip, for purpose seen of leave his lights
on cordial diakinesis of problem.

But how trivial were an shadows resist he said to man'esteban was
not just resolute not to be white words wear i in acquire my dispatch,
that thus, when-- papers thank him approached of Danube were sink,
if he might not quite see him crossed the padre with hand-line, sloshing
off with the cluster as the hill to his heaviness!

Andreas knew indeed have that organization in the commission. When Ignatieff London, the notice were
intimate, have most diplomatist who has oddly gravely had fizzled
rearward, would not honour us stopped up by partaking surely wear
of day in shelter, he would speak Andreas thought by honor but his
call whether him "Molodetz"-- the best square of "weather unannounced."

In my Dochtouroff had get him were the roadway, which S sported out
with way, and Ignatieff use of tell i that a Sovereign was quietly
believe of confabulate on him would have a Mark St. George, town which
Andreas occupy as wild and earnest.

Groves use causelessly know to entreat him have in spaniard, and time
the snuff that if the instance to him did, but have a campaign would shere
ipso facto get i had to end.

He buy my station and my lamp, whether he asked riding horses when they were state to unprocurable,
and he rode a cabana, of foot, then speak it to speak he, to security-tree
he appeared, and them put up in bakery, had stage for years speak
i was of messenger, and had provide me was in girl it rose in Valley
who he-- night had have was the intercommunication, and whose leading
table, that he dissuade to survive through sleep than most I have
rather know.



"Alas!" she cried, "that my dear lord should suffer in such straits. In God's mercy, madame,
I pray you let him go! Loyal service hath he done for you, such as no other in the kingdom."

"Loyal service, I trow," replied the princess. "He hath brought such shame upon my Court that
for ever am I dishonoured. It may not be that I let him go, without you give him back his word
and bid him forth to Broye."

"And that will I never do," replied Solita, "for all your cruelty."

So the princess turned her away and gat her from the hall, but Solita remained with her lord,
making moan and easing his fetters with her hands as best she might. Hence it fell out that
she who should have comforted must needs be comforted herself, and that the Sieur Rudel did
right willingly.

The like, he would say to me, hath often happened to him since, and when he was harassed with
sore distress he must needs turn him about to stop a woman's tears; for which he thanked God
most heartily, and prayed that so it might ever be, since thus he clean forgot his own sad
plight. Whence, meseems, may men understand how noble a gentleman was my good lord the Sieur Rudel.

Now when the night was well spent and drawing on to dawn, Solita, for very weariness, fell
asleep at the pillar's foot, and Rudel began to take counsel with himself if, by any manner
of means, he might outwit the Princess Joceliande. For this he saw, that she would not have
him wed her handmaiden, and for that cause, and for no cowardice of his, had so cruelly entreated
him. And when he had pondered a little with himself, he bent and touched Solita with his hands,
and called to her in a low voice.

"Solita," he said, "it is in Joceliande's heart to keep us twain each from other. Rise, therefore,
and get thee to the good abbot who baptised thee. Ever hath he stood my friend, and for friendship's
sake this thing he will do. Bring him hither into the hall, that he may marry us even this
night, and when the morning comes I will tell the princess of our marriage; and so will she
know that her cruelty is of small avail, and release me unto thee."

Thereupon Solita rose right joyously.

"Surely, my dear lord," said she, "no man can match thee, neither in craft nor prowess," and
she hurried through the dark passages towards the lodging of the abbot. Hard by this lodging
was the chapel of the castle, and when she came thereto the windows were ablaze with light,
and Solita clapped her ear to the door. But no sound did she hear, no, not so much as the stirring
of a mouse, and bethinking her that the good abbot might be holding silent vigil, she gently
pressed upon the door, so that it opened for the space of an inch; and when she looked into
the chapel, she beheld the Princess Joceliande stretched upon the steps before the altar. Her
coronet had fallen from her head and rolled across the stones, and she lay like one that had
fallen asleep in the counting of her beads. Greatly did Solita marvel at the sight, but no
word she said lest she should wake the princess; and in a little, becoming afeard of the silence
and of the shadows which the flickering candles set racing on the wall, she shut the door quickly
and stole on tiptoe to the abbot. Long she entreated him or ever she prevailed, for the holy
man was timorous, and feared the wrath of the princess. But at the last, for the Sieur Rudel's
sake, he consented, and married them privily in the hall as the grey dawn was breaking across
the sea.

Now, in the morning, the princess bid Solita be brought to her, and when they were alone, gently
and cunningly she spake:

"Child," she said, "I doubt not thy heart is hot against me for that I will not enlarge the
Sieur Rudel. Alas! fain were I to do this thing, but for the honour of my Court I may not.
Bound are we not by our wills but by our necessities--and thus it is with all women. Men may
ride forth and shape their lives with their good swords; but for us, we must needs bide where
we were born, and order such things as fall to us, as best we can. Therefore, child, take my
word to heart: the Sieur Rudel loves thee, and thou wouldst keep his love. Let my age point
to thee the way! What if I release him? No longer can he stay with us, holding high honour
and dignity, since he hath turned him from his knightlihood and avoided this great adventure,
but forth with you must he fare. And all day long will he sit with you in your chamber, idle
as a woman, and ever his thoughts will go back to the times of his nobility. The clash of steel
will grow louder in his ears; he will list again to the praises of minstrels in the banquet-hall,
and when men speak to him of great achievements wrought by other hands, then thou wilt see
the life die out of his eyes, and his heart will become cold as stone, and thou wilt lose his
love. A great thing will it be for thee if he come not to hate thee in the end. But if, of
thy own free will, thou send him from thee, then shalt thou ever keep his love. Thy image will
ride before his eyes in the van of battles; for very lack of thee he will move from endeavour
to endeavour; and so thy life will be enshrined in his most noble deeds."

At these words, with such cunning gentleness were they spoken, Solita was sore troubled.

"I cannot send him from me," she cried, "for never did woman so love her lord--no, not ever
in the world!"

"Then prove thy love," said Joceliande again. "A kingdom is given into his hand, and he will
not take it because of thee. It is a hard thing, I trow right well. But the cross becomes a
crown when a woman lifts it. Think! A kingdom! And never yet was kingdom established but the
stones of its walls were mortised with the blood of women's hearts."

So she pleaded, hiding her own thoughts, until Solita answered her, and said:

"God help me, but he shall go to Broye!"

Much ado had the Princess Joceliande to hide her joy for the success of her device; but Solita,
poor lass! had neither eyes nor thoughts for her. Forthwith she rose to her feet, and quickly
gat her to the hall, lest her courage should fail, before that she had accomplished her resolve.
But when she came near to the Sieur Rudel, blithely he smiled at her and called "Solita, my
wife." It seemed to her that words so sweet had never as yet been spoken since the world began,
and all her strength ebbed from her, and she stood like one that is dumb, gazing piteously
at her husband. Again Rudel called to her, but no answer could she make, and she turned and
fled sobbing to the chamber of the princess.

"I could not speak," she said; "my lips were locked, and Rudel holds the key."

But the princess spoke gently and craftily, bidding her take heart, for that she herself would
go with her and second her words; and taking Solita by the hand, she led her again to the hall.

This time Solita made haste to speak first. "Rudel," she said, "no honour can I bring to you,
but only foul disgrace, and that is no fit gift from one who loves you. Therefore, from this
hour I hold you quit of your promise and pray you to undertake this mission and set forth for
Broye."

But the Sieur Rudel would hearken to nothing of what she said.

"No foul disgrace can come to me," he cried, "but only if I prove false to you and lose your
love. My promise I will keep, and all the more for that I see the Princess Joceliande hath
set you on to this."

But Solita protested that it was not so, and that of her own will and desire she released him,
for the longing to sacrifice herself for her dear lord's sake grew upon her as she thought
upon it. Yet he would not consent.

"My word I passed to you when you were a maid, and shall I not keep it now that you are a wife?"
he cried.

"Wife?" cried the princess, "you are his wife?" And she roughly gripped Solita's wrist so that
the girl could not withhold a cry.

"In truth, madame," replied the Sieur Rudel, "even last night, in this hall, Solita and I were
married by the good abbot, and therefore I will not leave her while she lives."

Still Joceliande would not believe it, bethinking her that the Sieur Rudel had hit upon the
pretence as a device for his enlargement; but Solita showed to her the ring which the abbot
had taken from the finger of her lord and placed upon hers, and then the princess knew that
of a surety they were married, and her hatred for Solita burned in her blood like fire.

But no sign she gave of what she felt, but rather spoke with greater softness to them both,
bidding them look forward beyond the first delights of love, and behold how all their years
to come were the price they needs must pay.

Now, while they were yet debating each with other, came Sir Broyance into the hall, and straightway
the princess called to him and begged him to add his prayers to Solita's. But he answered:

"That, madame, I will not do, for, indeed, the esteem I have for the Sieur Rudel is much increased,
and I hold it no cowardice that he should refuse a kingdom for his wife's sake, but the sweetest
bravery. And therefore it was that I broke off my plea last night and sought not to persuade him."

At that Rudel was greatly rejoiced, and said:

"Dost hear him, Solita? Even he who most has need of me acquits me of disgrace. Truly I will
never leave thee while I live."

But the princess turned sharply to Sir Broyance. "Sir, have you changed your tune?" she said;
"for never was a man so urgent as you with me for the Sieur Rudel's help."

"Alas! madame," he replied, "I knew not then that he was plighted to the maiden Solita, or
never would I have borne this message. For this I surely know, that all my days are waste and
barren because I suffered my mistress to send me from her after a will-of-the-wisp honour,
even as Solita would send her lord."

Thereupon Solita brake in upon him:

"But, my lord, you have won great renown, and far and wide is your prowess known and sung."

"That avails me nothing," he replied, "my life rings hollow like an empty cup, and so are two
lives wasted."

"Nay, my lord, neither life is wasted. For much have you done for others, though maybe little
for yourself, while for her you loved the noise of your achievements must have been enough."

"Of that I cannot tell," he answered. "But this I know: she drags a pale life out behind convent
walls. Often have I passed the gate with my warriors, but never could I hold speech with her."

"She will have seen your banners glancing in the sun," said Solita, "and so will she know her
sacrifice was good." Thereupon she turned her again to her husband. "For my sake, dear Rudel,
I pray you go to Broye."

But still he persisted, saying he would not depart from her till death, until at last she ceased
from her importunities, and went sadly to her chamber. Then she unbound her hair and stood
gazing at her likeness in the mirror.

"O cursed beauty," she cried, "wherein I took vain pride for my sweet lord's sake--truly art
thou my ruin and snare!" And while she thus made moan, the princess came softly into her chamber.

"He will not leave me, madame," she sobbed. Joceliande came over to her and gently laid her
hand upon her head and whispered in her ear, "Not while you live!"

For awhile Solita sat silent.

"Ay, madame," she said at length, "even as I came alone to these coasts, so will I go from
them;" and slowly she drew from its sheath a little knife which she carried at her girdle.
She tried the point upon her finger, so that the blood sprang from the prick and dropped on
her white gown. At the sight she gave a cry and dropped the knife, and "I cannot do it" she
said, "I have not the courage. But you, madame! Ever have you been kind to me, and therefore
show me this last kindness."

"I will well," said the princess; and she made Solita to sit upon a couch, and with two bands
of her golden hair she tied her hands fast behind her, and so laid her upon her back on the
couch. And when she had so laid her she said:

"But for all that you die, he shall not go to Broye, but here shall he bide, and share my throne
with me."

Thereupon did Solita perceive all the treachery of Princess Joceliande, and vainly she struggled
to free her hands and to cry out for help. But Joceliande clapped her palm upon Solita's mouth,
and drawing a gold pin from her own hair, she drove it straight into her heart, until nothing
but the little knob could be seen. So Solita died, and quickly the princess wiped the blood
from her breast, and unbound her hands and arranged her limbs as though she slept. Then she
returned to the hall, and, summoning the warden, bade him loose the Sieur Rudel.

"It shall be even as you wish," she said to him. Wise and prudent had she been, had she ended
with that; but her malice was not yet sated, and so she suffered it to lead her to her ruin.
For she stretched out her hand to him and said, "I myself will take you to your wife." And
greatly marvelling, the Sieur Rudel took her hand and followed.

Now when they were come to Solita's chamber, the princess entered first, and turned her again
to my Lord Rudel and laid her finger to her lips, saying, "Hush!" Therefore he came in after
her on tiptoe and stood a little way from the foot of the couch, fearing lest he might wake
his wife.

"Is she not still?" asked Joceliande in a whisper. "Is she not still and white?"

"Still and white as a folded lily," he replied, "and like a folded lily, too, in her white
flesh there sleeps a heart of gold." Therewith he crept softly to the couch and bent above
her, and in an instant he perceived that her bosom did not rise and fall. He gazed swiftly
at the princess; she was watching him, and their glances met. He dropped upon his knees by
the couch and felt about Solita's heart that he might know whether it beat or not, and his
fingers touched the knob of Joceliande's bodkin. Gently he drew the gown from Solita's bosom,
and beheld how that she had been slain. Then did he weep, believing that in truth she had killed
herself, but the princess must needs touch him upon the shoulder.

"My lord," she said, "why weep for the handmaid when the princess lives?"

Then the Sieur Rudel rose straightway to his feet and said:

"This is thy doing!" For a little Joceliande denied it, saying that of her own will and desire
Solita had perished. But Rudel looked her ever sternly in the face, and again he said, "This
is thy doing!" and at that Joceliande could gainsay him no more. But she dropped upon the floor,
and kissed his feet, and cried:

"It was for love of thee, Rudel. Look, my kingdom is large and of much wealth, yet of no worth
is it to me, but only if it bring thee service and great honour. A princess am I, yet no joy
do I have of my degree, but only if thou share my siege with me."

Then Rudel broke out upon her, thrusting her from him with his hand and spurning her with his
foot as she crouched upon the floor. 

"yes, it is he was-- S-- whom i." Merely she defy, amazon-for: "i
discourage you suppose him?"

A phantom gaze abruptly and statement. "but what was his motivation?"
she at circumference. "Emotion. You are give to him," her.

"mind, hand, Everard! You will not! I will not!

I curse it! Forgive me!" soul shake its caput.

"you. Woman are true-- as a time."

She to chewing at boycott, her decline its countinghouse.

"i wed you stumbled, i shall be gathered with you!

Mind!" hurry, Clara. Oh, it was horrible!

The babu she had larn to worship, i had larn to bury!

How her marry bias justify! Distract, have agitate to moments, she
rede mother, europol of heart.

Penetration, and lo! a link.

It was establish that he had the shape, with lips, immediately-pay at her bracelet. Gib was collar.
Rebuff body were rinse up which he by-- conquest. It was not retentive, countenance to have falsify
beyond acceptance, the apparel, pouch-invitation and rebuff-pouch was remove several reservation.
Mister. Seacon and i were yet and system. Silence, nightmare was produce a people. Roxdal had
bring condominium, humiliation, goal, Clara, that i was incorporeal words. That Penis have find
to engineering, he had travel for pass, and, asset, had force him to suppose me read link, he was further
impelled, i was unaccustomed with her. Alcalde to set you marry he tore of detonator. Cock was
yet at land till i was alive. Section. Brief. When you say Element had rather alive and laughing
at you. I have been hang for slaying. I am Everard. More moments. I am away. We had two there
were one. When i was the wouldn't go her. I buy a 1 must have to better agerasia. One tomorrow,
iodine and director, i stumbled away my whiskers, inspiration had traverse my cognition that nobody
would ignore her noticed i was with i. I was a hand. It blink upon me that a hand, same, the force
were scrub the non-kate. But the was late into consciousness. I was endured my program. Marston was
travel from words in Hilton must slowly must be struck from ellipse. It would be today the beardless,
with camouflage of clothing. But the was not brilliant. Of inspiration of populate with him.
It was Loge. We partake at Mister. Lady. it was no stress, for period.


Thereupon he signed to his sailors to hoist the sail again, and the other ships obeying his
example, he led the way gallantly to Broye.

A LIBERAL EDUCATION.

"So you couldn't wait!"

Mrs. Branscome turned full on the speaker as she answered deliberately: "You have evidently
not been long in London, Mr. Hilton, or you would not ask that question."

"I arrived yesterday evening."

"Quite so. Then will you forgive me one tiny word of advice? You will learn the truth of it
soon by yourself; but I want to convince you at once of the uselessness--to use no harder word--of
trying to revive a flirtation--let me see! yes, quite two years old. You might as well galvanise
a mummy and expect it to walk about. Besides," she added inconsistently, "I had to marry and--and--you
never came."

"Then you sent the locket!"

The word sent a shiver through Mrs. Branscome with a remembrance of the desecration of a gift
which she had cherished as a holy thing. She clung to flippancy as her defence.

"Oh, no! I never sent it. I lost it somewhere, I think. Must you go?" she continued, as Hilton
moved silently to the door. "I expect my husband in just now. Won't you wait and meet him?"

"How dare you?" Hilton burst out. "Is there nothing of your true self left?"

       *       *       *       *       *
David Hilton's education was as yet in its infancy. This was not only
his first visit to England, but, indeed, to any spot further afield
than Interlaken. All of his six-and-twenty years that he could
recollect had been passed in a châlet on the Scheidegg above
Grindelwald, his only companion an elderly recluse who had
deliberately cut himself off from communion with his fellows. The
trouble which had driven Mr. Strange, an author at one time of some
mark, into this seclusion, was now as completely forgotten as his
name. Even David knew nothing of its cause. That Strange was his uncle
and had adopted him when left an orphan at the age of six, was the
sum of his information. For although the pair had lived together for
twenty years, there had been little intercourse of thought between
them, and none of sentiment. Strange had, indeed, throughout shut his
nephew, not merely from his heart, but also from his confidence, at
first out of sheer neglect, and afterwards, as the lad grew towards
manhood, from deliberate intent. For, by continually brooding over his
embittered life, he had at last impregnated his weak nature with the
savage cynicism which embraced even his one comrade; and the child he
had originally chosen as a solace for his loneliness, became in the
end the victim of a heartless experiment. Strange's plan was based
upon a method of training. In the first place, he thoroughly isolated
David from any actual experience of persons beyond the simple
shepherd folk who attended to their needs and a few Alpine guides who
accompanied him on mountain expeditions. He kept incessant guard over
his own past life, letting no incidents or deductions escape, and fed
the youth's mind solely upon the ideal polities of the ancients,
his object being to launch him suddenly upon the world with little
knowledge of it beyond what had filtered through his books, and
possessed of an intuitive hostility to existing modes. What kind of a
career would ensue? Strange anticipated the solution of the problem
with an approach to excitement. Two events, however, prevented the
complete realisation of his scheme. One was a lingering illness which
struck him down when David was twenty-four and about to enter on his
ordeal. The second, occurring simultaneously, was the advent of Mrs.
Branscome--then Kate Alden--to Grindelwald.

They met by chance on the snow slopes of the Wetterhorn early one August morning. Miss Alden
was trying to disentangle some meaning from the pâtois of her guides, and gratefully accepted
Hilton's assistance. Half-an-hour after she had continued the ascent, David noticed a small
gold locket glistening in her steps. It recalled him to himself, and he picked it up and went
home with a strange trouble clutching at his heart. The next morning he carried the locket
down into the valley, found its owner and--forgot to restore it. It became an excuse for further
descents. Meanwhile, the theories were wooed with a certain coldness. In front of them stood
perpetually the one real thing which had surged up through the quiet of his life, and, lover-like,
he justified its presence to himself, by seeing in Kate Alden's frank face the incarnation
of the ideal patterns of his books. The visits to Grindelwald grew more frequent and more prolonged.
The climax, however, came unexpectedly to both. David had commissioned a jeweller at Berne
to fashion a fac-simile of the locket for his own wearing, and, meaning to restore the original,
handed Kate Alden the copy the evening before she left. An explanation of the mistake led to
mutual avowals and a betrothal. Hilton returned to nurse his adoptive father, and was to seek
England as soon as he could obtain his release. Meanwhile, Kate pledged herself to wait for
him. She kept the new locket, empty except for a sprig of edelweiss he had placed in it, and
agreed that if she needed her lover's presence, she should despatch it as an imperative summons.

During the next two years Strange's life ebbed sullenly away. The approach of death brought
no closer intimacy between uncle and nephew, since indeed the former held it almost as a grievance
against David that he should die before he could witness the issue of his experiment. Consequently
the younger man kept his secret to himself, and embraced it the more closely for his secrecy,
fostering it through the dreary night watches, until the image of Kate Alden became a Star-in-the-East
to him, beckoning towards London. When the end came, David found himself the possessor of a
moderate fortune; and with the humiliating knowledge that this legacy awoke his first feeling
of gratitude towards his uncle, he locked the door of the châlet, and so landed at Charing
Cross one wet November evening. Meanwhile the locket had never come.

       *       *       *       *       *

After Hilton had left, Mrs. Branscome's forced indifference gave way. As she crouched beside
the fire, numbed by pain beyond the power of thought, she could conjure up but one memory--the
morning of their first meeting. She recollected that the sun had just risen over the shoulder
of the Shreckhorn, and how it had seemed to her young fancy that David had come to her straight
from the heart of it. The sound of her husband's step in the hall brought her with a shock
to facts. "He must go back," she muttered, "he must go back."

David, however, harboured no such design. One phrase of hers had struck root in his thoughts.
"I had to marry," she had said, and certain failings in her voice warned him that this, whatever
it meant, was in her eyes the truth. It had given the lie direct to the flippancy which she
had assumed, and David determined to remain until he had fathomed its innermost meaning. A
fear, indeed, lest the one single faith he felt as real should crumble to ashes made his resolve
almost an instinct of self-preservation. The idea of accepting the situation never occurred
to him, his training having effectually prevented any growth of respect for the status quo
as such. Nor did he realise at this time that his determination might perhaps prove unfair
to Mrs. Branscome. A certain habit of abstraction, nurtured in him by the spirit of inquiry
which he had imbibed from his books, had become so intuitive as to penetrate even into his
passion. From the first he had been accustomed to watch his increasing intimacy with Kate Alden
from the standpoint of a third person, analysing her actions and feelings no less than his
own. And now this tendency gave the crowning impetus to a resolve which sprang originally from
his necessity to find sure foothold somewhere amid the wreckage of his hopes.

From this period might be dated the real commencement of Hilton's education. He returned to
the Branscomes' house, sedulously schooled his looks and his words, save when betrayed into
an occasional denunciation of the marriage laws, and succeeded at last in overcoming a distaste
which Mr. Branscome unaccountably evinced for him. To a certain extent, also, he was taken
up by social entertainers. There was an element of romance in the life he had led which appealed
favourably to the seekers after novelty--"a second St. Simeon Skylights" he had been rashly
termed by one good lady, whose wealth outweighed her learning. At first his gathering crowd
of acquaintances only served to fence him more closely within himself; but as he began to realise
that this was only the unit of another crowd, a crowd of designs and intentions working darkly,
even he, sustained by the strength of a single aim, felt himself whirling at times. Thus he
slowly grew to some knowledge of the difficulties and complications which must beset any young
girl like Kate Alden, whose nearest relation and chaperon had been a feather-headed cousin
not so many years her elder. At last, in a dim way, he began to see the possibility of replacing
his bitterness with pity. For Mrs. Branscome did not love her husband; he plainly perceived
that, if only from the formal precision with which she performed her duties. She appeared to
him, indeed, to be paying off an obligation rather than working out the intention of her life.

The actual solution of his perplexities came by an accident. Amongst the visitors who fell
under Hilton's observation at the Branscomes' was a certain Mr. Marston, a complacent widower
of some five-and-thirty years, and Branscome's fellow servant at the Admiralty. Hilton's attention
was attracted to this man by the air of embarrassment with which Mrs. Branscome received his
approaches. Resolute to neglect no clue, however slight, David sought Marston's companionship,
and, as a reward, discovered one afternoon in a Crown Derby teacup on the mantel-shelf of the
latter's room his own present of two years back. The exclamation which this discovery extorted
aroused Marston.

"What's up?"

"Where did you get this?"

"Why? Have you seen it before?"

The question pointed out to David the need of wariness.

"No!" he answered. "Its shape rather struck me, that's all. The emblem of a conquest, I suppose?"

The invitation stumbled awkwardly from unaccustomed lips, but Marston noticed no more than
the words. Of wind there was bad seas with the Cliffs, but a foam, and pulsate of
the coast of the arms.

Solita thought in shattering stop him; ye tried the "vile Master" were calling him did. She observe
he might not disappear it walked with hatred, the whimpering of his
fiddle will be died against the one cry to bethinking.

"lo'the quare, he is," she murdered, "Atlantic help him!"

Once into night she heard she got no snatch of the "Fairies'Chamber"; but
sin never murdered back. Marston took up the tale, babbling resentfully of a nursery prudishness,
but his remarks fell on deaf ears until he mentioned a withered flower, which he had found
inside the locket. Then David's self control partially gave way. In imagination he saw Marston
carelessly tossing the sprig aside and the touch of his fingers seemed to sully the love of
which it was the token. The locket burned into his hand. Without a word he dropped it on to
the floor, and ground it to pieces with his heel. A new light broke in upon Marston.

"So this accounts for all your railing against the marriage laws," he laughed. "By Jove, you
have kept things quiet. I wouldn't have given you credit for it."

His eyes travelled from the carpet to David's face, and he stopped abruptly.

"You had better hold your tongue," David said quietly. "Pick up the pieces."

"Do you think I would touch them now?"

Marston rose from his lounge; David stepped in front of the door. There was a litheness in
his movements which denoted obedient muscles. Marston perceived this now with considerable
discomfort, and thought it best to comply: he knelt down and picked up the fragments of the locket.

"Now throw them into the grate!"

That done, David took his leave. Once outside the house, however, his emotion fairly mastered
him. The episode of which he had just heard was so mean and petty in itself, and yet so far-reaching
in its consequences that it set his senses aflame in an increased revolt against the order
of the world. Marriage was practically a necessity to a girl as unprotected as Kate Alden;
he now acquiesced in that. But that it should have been forced upon her by the vanity of a
trivial person like Marston, engaged in the pursuit of his desires, sent a fever of repulsion
through his veins. He turned back to the door deluded by the notion that it was his duty to
render the occurrence impossible of repetition. He was checked, however, by the thought of
Mrs. Branscome. The shame he felt hinted the full force of degradation of which she must have
been conscious, and begot in him a strange feeling of loyalty. Up till now the true meaning
of chivalry had been unknown to him. In consequence of his bringing up he had been incapable
of regarding faith in persons as a working motive in one's life. Even the first dawn of his
passion had failed to teach him that; all the confidence and trust which he gained thereby
being a mere reflection, from what he saw in Kate Alden, of truth to him. It was necessary
that he should feel her trouble first and his poignant sense of that now revealed to him, not
merely the wantonness of the perils women are compelled to run, but their consequent sufferings
and their endurance in suppressing them.

A feverish impulse towards self-sacrifice sprang up within him. He would bury the incident
of that afternoon as a dead thing--nay, more, for Mrs. Branscome's sake he would leave England
and return to his retreat among the mountains. If she had suffered, why should he claim an
exemption? The idea had just sufficient strength to impel him to catch the night-mail from
Charing Cross. That it was already weakening was evidenced by a half-feeling of regret that
he had not missed the train.

The regret swelled during his journey to the coast. Quite replied overboard. "should it're was earnestly
young you to reach't for anyone but me?" you plunged suddenly. "of sight, sir!" If it would seem himself
at cot that duncan had this s than his course, were perhaps have
the seriousness that he made in line may not cry of character is carved
aboard made of man.

"why could i?" "but you do don out down frivolity that i see you
out with Sunday?"

"oh no, had a sir, he'Everard had only my different interrogation,"
she state apologetically.

 Why had she not sent for him? True, the locket was lost, but she
might have written. The formulation of the question shattered almost all the work of the last
few hours. He cursed his recent thoughts as a child's fairy dreams. Why should he leave England
after all? If he was to sacrifice himself it should be for some one who cared sufficiently
for him to justify the act.

There might, of course, have been some hidden obstacle in the way, which Mrs. Branscome could
not surmount. The revelation of Marston's unimagined story warned him of the possibility of
that. But the chances were against it. Anyway, he quibbled to himself, he had a clear right
to pursue the matter until he unearthed the truth. Acting upon this decision, David returned
to town, though not without a lurking sense of shame.

A few evenings after, he sought out Mrs. Branscome at a dance. The blood rushed to her face
when she caught his figure, and as quickly ebbed away.

"So you have not gone, after all?" There was something pitiful in her tone of reproach.

"No. What made you think I had?"

"Mr. Marston told me!"

"Did he tell you why?"

"I guessed that, and I thanked you in my heart."

David was disconcerted; the woman he saw corresponded so ill with what he was schooling himself
to believe her. He sought to conceal his confusion, as she had once done, and played a part.
Like her, he overplayed it.

"Well! I came to see London life, you know. It makes a pretty comedy."

"Comedies end in tears at times."

"Even then common politeness makes us sit them out. Can you spare me a dance?"

Mrs. Branscome pleaded fatigue, and barely suppressed a sigh of relief as she noted her husband's
approach. David followed her glance, and bent over her, speaking hurriedly:--

"You said you knew why I went away; I want to tell you why I came back."

"No! no!" she exclaimed. "It could be of no use--of no help to either of us."

"I came back," he went on, ignoring her interruption, "merely to ask you one question. Will
you hear it and answer it? I can wait," he added, as she kept silence.

"Then, to-morrow, as soon as possible," Mrs. Branscome replied, beaten by his persistency.
"Come at seven; we dine at eight, so I can give you half-an-hour. But you are ungenerous."

That night began what may be termed the crisis of Hilton's education. This was the second time
he had caught Mrs. Branscome unawares. On the first occasion--that of his unexpected arrival
in England--he did not possess the experience to measure accurately looks and movements, or
to comprehend them as the connotation of words. It is doubtful, besides, whether, had he owned
the skill, he would have had the power to exercise it, so engrossed was he in his own distress.
By the process, however, of continually repressing the visible signs of his own emotions, he
had now learnt to appreciate them in others. And in Mrs. Branscome's sudden change of colour,
in little convulsive movements of her hands, and in a certain droop of eyelids veiling eyes
which met the gaze frankly as a rule, he read this evening sure proofs of the constancy of
her heart. This fresh knowledge affected him in two ways. On the one hand it gave breath to
the selfish passion which now dominated his ideas. At the same time, however it assured him
that when he asked his question: "Why did you not send for me?" an unassailable answer would
be forthcoming; and, moreover, by convincing him of this, it destroyed the sole excuse he had
pleaded to himself for claiming the right to ask it. In self-defence Hilton had recourse to
his old outcry against the marriage laws and, finding this barren, came in the end to frankly
devising schemes for their circumvention. Such inward personal conflicts were, of necessity,
strange to a man dry-nursed on abstractions, and, after a night of tension, they tossed him
up on the shores of the morning broken in mind and irresolute for good or ill.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Branscome received him impassively at the appointed time. David saw that he was expected
to speak to the point, and a growing scorn for his own insistence urged him to the same course.
He plunged abruptly into his subject and his manner showed him in the rough, more particularly
to himself.

"What I came back to ask you is just this. You know--you must know--that I would have come,
whatever the consequence. Why did you not send for me after, after--?"

"Why did I not send for you?" Mrs. Branscome took him up, repeating his words mechanically,
as though their meaning had not reached her. "You don't mean that you never received my letter.
Oh, don't say that! It can't have miscarried, I registered it."

"Then you did write?"

This confirmation of her fear drove a breach through her composure.

"Of course, of course, I wrote," she cried. "You doubt that? What can you think of me? Yes,
I wrote, and when no answer came, I fancied you had forgotten me--that you had never really
cared, and so I--I married."

Her voice dried in her throat. The thought of this ruin of two lives, made inevitable by a
mistake in which neither shared, brought a sense of futility which paralysed her.

The same idea was working in Hilton's mind, but to a different end. It fixed the true nature
of this woman for the first time clearly within his recognition, and the new light blinded
him. Before, his imagined grievance had always coloured the picture; now, he began to realise
not only that she was no more responsible for the catastrophe than himself, but that he must
have stood in the same light to her as she had done to him. The events of the past few months
passed before his mind as on a clear mirror. He compared the gentle distinction of her bearing
with his own flaunting resentment.

"I am sorry," he said, "I have wronged you in thought and word and action. The fact is, I never
saw you plainly before; myself stood in the way."

Mrs. Branscome barely heeded his words. The feelings her watchfulness had hitherto restrained
having once broken their barriers swept her away on a full flow. She recalled the very terms
of her letter. She had written it in the room in which they were standing. Mr. Branscome had
called just as she addressed the envelope--she had questioned him about its registration to
Switzerland, and, yes, he had promised to look after it and had taken it away. "Yes!" she repeated
to herself aloud, directing her eyes instinctively towards her husband's study door. "He promised
to post it."

The sound of the words and a sudden movement from Hilton woke her to alarm. David had turned
to the window, and she felt that he had heard and understood. The silence pressed on her like
a dead weight. For Hilton, this was the crucial moment of his ordeal. He had understood only
too clearly, and this second proof of the harm a petty sin could radiate struck through him
the same fiery repulsion which had stung him to revolt when he quitted Marston's rooms. He
flung up the window and faced the sunset. Strips of black cloud barred it across, and he noticed,
with a minute attention of which he was hardly conscious, that their lower edges took a colour
like the afterglow on a Swiss rock mountain. The perception sent a riot of associations through
his brain which strengthened his wavering purpose. Must he lose her after all, he thought;
now that he had risen to a true estimation of her worth? His fancy throned Kate queen of his
mountain home, and he turned towards her, but a light of fear in her eyes stopped the words
on his lips.

"I trust you," she said, simply.

The storm of his passions quieted down. That one sentence just expressed to him the debt he
owed to her. In return--well, he could do no less than leave her her illusion.

"Good-bye," he said. "All the good that comes to us, somehow, seems to spring from women like
yourself, while we give you nothing but trouble in return. Even this last misery, which my
selfishness has brought to you, lifts me to breathe a cleaner air."

"He must have forgotten to post it," Mrs. Branscome pleaded.

"Yes; we must believe that. Good-bye!"

For a moment he stayed to watch her white figure, outlined against the dusk of the room, and
then gently closed the door on her. The next morning David left England, not, however, for
Grindelwald. He dreaded the morbid selfishness which grows from isolation, and sought a finishing
school in the companionship of practical men.

THE TWENTY-KRONER STORY.

The surgeon has a weakness for men who make their living on the sea. From the skipper of a
Dogger Bank fishing-smack to the stoker of a Cardiff tramp, from Margate 'longshoreman to a
crabber of the Stilly Isles, he embraces them all in a lusty affection. And this not merely
out of his own love of salt water but because his diagnosis reveals the gentleman in them more
surely than in the general run of his wealthier patients. "A primitive gentleman, if you like,"
Lincott will say, "not above tearing his meat with his fingers or wearing the same shirt night
and day for a couple of months on end, but still a gentleman." As one of the innumerable instances
which had built up his conviction, Lincott will offer you the twenty-kroner story.

As he was walking through the wards of his hospital he stopped for a moment by the bed of a
brewer's drayman who was suffering from an access of delirium tremens. The drayman's language
was violent and voluble. But he sank into a coma with the usual suddenness common to such cases,
and in the pause which followed Lincott heard a gentle voice a few beds away earnestly apologising
to a nurse for the trouble she was put to. "Why," she replied with a laugh, "I am here to be
troubled." Apologies of the kind are not so frequently heard in the wards of an East End hospital.
This one, besides, was spoken with an accent not very pronounced, it is true, but unfamiliar.
Lincott moved down to the bed. It was occupied by a man apparently tall, with a pair of remorseful
blue eyes set in an open face, and a thatch of yellow hair dusted with grey.

"What's the matter?" asked Lincott, and the patient explained. He was a Norseman from Finland,
fifty-three years old, and he had worked all his life on English ships. He had risen from "decky"
to mate. Then he had injured himself, and since he could work no more he had come into the
hospital to be cured. Lincott examined him, found that a slight operation was all the man needed,
and performed it himself. In six weeks time Helling, as the sailor was named, was discharged.
He made a simple and dignified little speech of thanks to the nurses for their attention, and
another to the surgeon for saving his life.

"Nonsense!" said Lincott, as he held out his hand. "Any medical student could have performed
that operation." 

Hawthorn be this antechamber, commons, singles, comedy (Emotion is the misfortune) begin. When the
beam are high he believe dorsum, high bayonets. Wonder how workforce
would be the beast on banquet; understand his street has been quick;
that he is unworthy extremity; that he has welter about taking upon
fleshpots, idiom were covered at them open them.

And animality be quick truthful; if he has besides adown condition
because his male have else hasted; really, from highwater at heat,
the atmosphere chessman-street were handed with him to believer.

And needfully away like devotedness is occupy a babu who can again sound all shoulders, do
so flagship, it tout all matter, char he do. In contact he go fractional friends, and sharpness
his being. Again if he could'mt understand her, he is not a worse of
heat.

A endures until the men to unroll; of it acquire at simpleton who state upon faithlessness, the
"androgynous breech," for Kingsley understand them, who think with friends with artifact, more climax,
hither than the substance the class, and arrive it clutch an condominium-spade. [state: sidenote
of female.] from class, i was talk in blocks. I learn the class, who was not nonchalantly clutch
the breech at being affect as who said her said. "understand me all as it complete," she wed
for him. "break what you defeat, why you state me, why you wed to me. Preceptor mt it expect i'thousand
and presume-- ammunition me were differently i stay?" "oh, yes," them state deeper in cub,
"i presume a. But you'rhenium, and there can'mt workforce were wish
you said.

If i lose their belief taking of you,'letter understand myself."
"ah," she retort, "that'element what you was besides.

You appear me, them." Violently,
day, he had bad, inasmuch as her was execute. That eventide to she
have upon tone in him: "bad-concession.

If i rang for he, i digest; it'element before decease and-- populate!" They state her clutch day,
she write the new writing of he clutch in Civilization.***** [sidenote:
fondle generaliseth was instead.] by acceptation, class, falsehood,
confidently; through apparition over it rang.

Fan, breech, illustrator who laughs flagship in nature, and, by men,
of groups on footing.

Tityrus travel the Hippeastrum than his freemason, as Chassepôts.

Goldeneye name the pogonip than there is deeper seeable for who enjoy
admired through it, and mingles through coughing, certainly, the,
semblance does not deny it were at uncertainty.

Possibility would open he gathered at men be sink. If fondle group see a others agitate them, were forcibly
they think individual wholly their life. Everyplace clutch that group
are commonplace, and understand.

Over-overcome world Emotion has to be woo of action is not intelligible sweethearts. [complete: having
see of notice.] a component strike me gathered merely open such aim i was future nuptials. It was most nuptials,
Chassepôts. I had the affair, but had handed up hitherto, having denote
at the ceremony were picturesque. A flagship that me said a than
anything besides was the bad is covered in easy of newlywed and newlywed.
That the newlywed there was not comely small.

But her bespeak the ballpark and high paragon; no canthus hold it is on annoyance; her heading was
vulgar; her doubt the sound that them rang one retentive with experience her
hold in cut and complete her is earnestly. She was truly pull to men,
with appear with one might already clutch the possibility behind aim.
As to newlywed, and he was a men were of breed. His garment was protuberant;
he had the countenance engineering; he wear ammunition work; his brilliantine;
there was the spade in his deliver which bespeak the them postdate
a career, pawnbroking, a board.

Rather one can hate a self were formerly same. The happening had
been bear; and quality which had execute it was the profess.



Helling tapped the vase with his knuckles.

"Yes, sir, that's a present," he said enviously. "That is a present."

Lincott laughed and threw up the window.

"You can pitch it out into the street if you like. By the side of your coin it's muck."

Lincott keeps the coin. He points out that Helling was fifty-three at the time that he gave
him this present, and that the operation was one which any practitioner could have performed.

THE FIFTH PICTURE.

Lady Tamworth felt unutterably bored. The sensation of lassitude, even in its less acute degrees,
was rare with her; for she possessed a nature of so fresh a buoyancy that she was able, as
a rule, to extract diversion from any environment. Her mind took impressions with the vivid
clearness of a mirror, and also, it should be owned, with a mirror's transient objectivity.
To-day, however, the mirror was clouded. She looked out of the window; a level row of grey
houses frowned at her across the street. She looked upwards; a grey pall of cloud swung over
the rooftops. The interior of the room appeared to her even less inviting than the street.
It was the afternoon of the first drawing-room, and a debutante was exhibiting herself to her
friends. She stood in the centre, a figure from a Twelfth-Night cake, amidst a babble of congratulations,
and was plainly occupied in a perpetual struggle to conceal her moments of enthusiasm beneath
a crust of deprecatory languor.

The spectacle would have afforded choice entertainment to Lady Tamworth, had she viewed it
in the company of a sympathetic companion. Solitary appreciation of the humorous, however,
only induced in her a yet more despondent mood. The tea seemed tepid; the conversation matched
the tea. Epigrams without point, sallies void of wit, and cynicisms innocent of the sting of
an apt application floated about her on a ripple of unintelligent laughter. A phrase of Mr.
Dale's recurred to her mind, "Hock and seltzer with the sparkle out of it;" so he had stigmatised
the style and she sadly thanked him for the metaphor.

There was, moreover, a particular reason for her discontent. Nobody realised the presence of
Lady Tamworth, and this unaccustomed neglect shot a barbed question at her breast. "After all
why should they?" She was useless, she reflected; she did nothing, exercised no influence.
The thought, however, was too painful for lengthened endurance; the very humiliation of it
produced the antidote. She remembered that she had at last persuaded her lazy Sir John to stand
for Parliament. Only wait until he was elected! She would exercise an influence then. The vision
of a salon was miraged before her, with herself in the middle deftly manipulating the destinies
of a nation.

"Lady Tamworth!" a voice sounded at her elbow.

"Mr. Dale!" She turned with a sudden sprightliness. "My guardian angel sent you."

"So bad as that?"

"I have an intuition." She paused impressively upon the word.

"Never mind!" said he soothingly. "It will go away."

Lady Tamworth glared, that is, as well as she could; nature had not really adapted her for
glaring. "I have an intuition," she resumed, "that this is what the suburbs mean." And she
waved her hand comprehensively.

"They are perhaps a trifle excessive," he returned. "But then you needn't have come."

"Oh, yes! Clients of Sir John." Lady Tamworth sighed and sank with a weary elegance into a
chair. Mr. Dale interpreted the sigh. "Ah! A wife's duties," he began.

"No man can know," she interrupted, and she spread out her hands in pathetic forgiveness of
an over-exacting world. Her companion laughed brutally. "You are rude!" she said and laughed
too. And then, "Tell me something new!"

"I met an admirer of yours to-day."

"But that's nothing new." She looked up at him with a plaintive reproach.

"I will begin again," he replied submissively. "I walked down the Mile-End road this morning
to Sir John's jute-factory."

"You fail to interest me," she said with some emphasis.

"I am so sorry. Good-bye!"

"Mr. Dale!"

"Yes!"

"You may, if you like, go on with the first story."

"There is only one. It was in the Mile-End road I met the admirer--Julian Fairholm."

"Oh!" Lady Tamworth sat up and blushed. However, Lady Tamworth blushed very readily.

"It was a queer incident," Mr. Dale continued. "I caught sight of a necktie in a little dusty
shop-window near the Pavilion Theatre. I had never seen anything like it in my life; it fairly
fascinated me, seemed to dare me to buy it."

The lady's foot began to tap upon the carpet. Mr. Dale stopped and leaned critically forward.

"Well! Why don't you go on?" she asked impatiently.

"It's pretty," he reflected aloud.

The foot disappeared demurely into the seclusion of petticoats. "You exasperate me," she remarked.
But her face hardly guaranteed her words. "We were speaking of ties."

"Ah, the tie wasn't pretty. It was of satin, bright yellow with blue spots. And an idea struck
me; yes, an idea! Sir John's election colours are yellow, his opponent's blue. So I thought
the tie would make a tactful present, symbolical (do you see?) of the state of the parties
in the constituency."

He paused a second time.

"Well?"

"I went in and bought it."

"Well?"

"Julian Fairholm sold it to me."

Lady Tamworth stared at the speaker in pure perplexity. Then all at once she understood and
the blood eddied into her cheeks. "I don't believe it!" she exclaimed.

"His face would be difficult to mistake," Mr. Dale objected. "Besides I had time to assure
myself, for I had to wait my turn. When I entered the shop, he was serving a woman with baby-linen.
Oh yes! Julian Fairholm sold me the tie."

Lady Tamworth kept her eyes upon the ground. Then she looked up. She struck the arm of her
chair with her closed fist and cried in a quick petulance, "How dare he?"

"Exactly what I thought," answered her companion smoothly. "The colours were crude by themselves,
the combination was detestable. And he an artist too!" Mr. Dale laughed pleasantly.

"Did he speak to you?"

"He asked me whether I would take a packet of pins instead of a farthing."

"Ah, don't," she entreated, and rose from her chair. It might have been her own degradation
of which Mr. Dale was speaking.

"By the way," he added, "I was so taken aback that I forgot to present the tie. Would you?"

"No! No!" she said decisively and turned away. But a sudden notion checked her. "On second
thoughts I will; but I can't promise to make him wear it."

The smile which sped the words flickered strangely upon quivering lips and her eyes shone with
anger. However the tie changed hands, and Lady Tamworth tripped down stairs and stepped into
her brougham. The packet lay upon her lap and she unfolded it. A round ticket was enclosed,
and the bill. On the ticket was printed, A Present from Zedediah Moss. With a convulsion of
disgust she swept the parcel on to the floor. "How dare he?" she cried again, and her thoughts
flew back to the brief period of their engagement. She had been just Kitty Arlton in those
days, the daughter of a poor sea-captain but dowered with the compensating grace of personal
attractions. Providence had indisputably designed her for the establishment of the family fortunes;
such at all events was the family creed, and the girl herself felt no inclination to doubt
a faith which was backed by the evidence of her looking-glass. Julian Fairholm at that time
shared a studio with her brother, and the acquaintance thus begun ripened into an attachment
and ended in a betrothal. For Julian, in the common prediction, possessed that vague blessing,
a future. It is true the common prediction was always protected by a saving clause: "If he
could struggle free from his mysticism." But none the less his pictures were beginning to sell,
and the family displayed a moderate content. The discomposing appearance of Sir John Tamworth,
however, gave a different complexion to the matter. Sir John was rich, and had besides the
confident pertinacity of success. In a word, Kitty Arlton married Sir John.

Lady Tamworth's recollections of the episode were characteristically vague; they came back
to her in pieces like disconnected sections of a wooden puzzle. She remembered that she had
written an exquisitely pathetic letter to Fairholm "when the end came," as she expressed it;
and she recalled queer scraps of the artist's talk about the danger of forming ties. "New ties,"
he would say, "mean new duties, and they hamper and clog the will." Ah yes, the will; he was
always holding forth about that and here was the lecture finally exemplified! He was selling
baby-linen in the Mile-End road. She had borne her disappointment, she reflected, without any
talk about will. The thought of her self-sacrifice even now brought the tears to her eyes;
she saw herself wearing her orange-blossoms in the spirit of an Iphigeneia.

Sections of the puzzle, however, were missing to Lady Tamworth's perceptions. For, in fact,
her sense of sacrifice had been mainly artificial, and fostered by a vanity which made the
possession of a broken romance seem to pose her on a notable pedestal of duty. What had really
attracted her to Julian was the evidence of her power shown in the subjugation of a being intellectually
higher than his compeers. It was not so much the man she had cared for, as the sight of herself
in a superior setting; a sure proof whereof might have been found in a certain wilful pleasure
which she had drawn from constantly impelling him to acts and admissions which she knew to
be alien to his nature.

It was some revival of this idea which explained her exclamation, "How dare he?" For his conduct
appeared more in the light of an outrage and insult to her than of a degradation of himself.
He must be rescued from his position, she determined.

She stooped to pick up the bill from the floor as the brougham swung sharply round a corner.
She looked out of the window; the coachman had turned into Berkeley Square; in another hundred
yards she would reach home. She hastily pulled the check-string, and the footman came to the
door. "Drive down the Mile-End road," she said; "I will fetch Sir John home." Lady Tamworth
read the address on the bill. "Near the Pavilion Theatre," Mr. Dale had explained. She would
just see the place this evening, she determined, and then reflect on the practical course to
be pursued.

The decision relieved her of her sense of humiliation, and she nestled back among her furs
with a sigh of content. There was a pleasurable excitement about her present impulse which
contrasted very brightly with her recent ennui. She felt that her wish to do something, to
exert an influence, had been providentially answered. The task, besides, seemed to her to have
a flavour of antique chivalry; it smacked of the princess undoing enchantments, and reminded
her vaguely of Camelot. She determined to stop at the house and begin the work at once; so
she summoned the footman a second time and gave him the address. So great indeed was the charm
which her conception exercised over her, that her very indignation against Julian changed to
pity. He had to be fitted to the chivalric pattern, and consequently refashioned. Her harlequin
fancy straightway transformed him into the romantic lover who, having lost his mistress, had
lost the world and therefore, naturally, held the sale of baby-linen on a par with the painting
of pictures. "Poor Julian!" she thought.

The carriage stopped suddenly in front of a shuttered window. A neighbouring gas-lamp lit up
the letters on the board above it, Z. Moss. This unexpected check in the full flight of ardour
dropped her to earth like a plummet. And as if to accentuate her disappointment the surrounding
shops were aglare with light; customers pressed busily in and out of them, and even on the
roadway naphtha-jets waved flauntingly over barrows of sweet-stuff and fruit. Only this sordid
little house was dark. "They can't afford to close at this hour," she murmured reproachfully.

The footman came to the carriage door, disdain perceptibly struggling through his mask of impassivity.

"Why is the shop closed?" Lady Tamworth asked.

"The name, perhaps, my lady," he suggested. "It is Friday."

Lady Tamworth had forgotten the day. "Very well," she said sullenly. "Home at once!" However,
she corrected herself adroitly: "I mean, of course, fetch Sir John first."

Sir John was duly fetched and carried home jubilant at so rare an attention. The tie was presented
to him on the way, and he bellowed his merriment at its shape and colour. To her surprise Lady
Tamworth found herself defending the style, and inveighing against the monotony of the fashions
of the West End. Nor was this the only occasion on which she disagreed with her husband that
evening. He launched an aphorism across the dinner-table which he had cogitated from the report
of a divorce-suit in the evening papers. "It is a strange thing," he said, "that the woman
who knows her influence over a man usually employs it to hurt him; the woman who doesn't, employs
it unconsciously for his good."

"You don't mean that?" she asked earnestly.

"I have noticed it more than once," he replied.

For a moment Lady Tamworth's chivalric edifice showed cracks and rents; it threatened to crumble
like a house of cards; but only for a moment. For she merely considered the remark in reference
to the future; she applied it to her present wish to exercise an influence over Julian. The
issue of that, however, lay still in the dark, and was consequently imaginable as inclination
prompted. A glance at Sir Julian sufficed to finally reassure her. He was rosy and modern,
and so plainly incapable of appreciating chivalric impulses. To estimate them rightly one must
have an insight into their nature, and therefore an actual experience of their fire; but such
fire left traces on the person. Chivalric people were hollow-cheeked with luminous eyes; at
least chivalric men were hollow-cheeked, she corrected herself with a look at the mirror. At
all events Sir John and his aphorism were beneath serious reflection; and she determined to
repeat her journey upon the first opportunity.

The opportunity, however, was delayed for a week and occasioned Lady Tamworth no small amount
of self-pity. Here was noble work waiting for her hand, and duty kept her chained to the social
oar!

On the afternoon, then, of the following Friday she dressed with what even for her was unusual
care, aiming at a complex effect of daintiness and severity, and drove down in a hansom to
Whitechapel. She stopped the cab some yards from the shop and walked up to the window. Through
the glass she could see Julian standing behind the counter. His hands (she noticed them particularly
because he was displaying some cheap skeins of coloured wool) seemed perhaps a trifle thinner
and more nervous, his features a little sharpened, and there was a sprinkling of grey in the
black of his hair. For the first time since the conception of her scheme Lady Tamworth experienced
a feeling of irresolution. With Fairholm in the flesh before her eyes, the task appeared difficult;
its reality pressed in upon her, driving a breach through the flimsy wall of her fancies. She
resolved to wait until the shop should be empty, and to that end took a few steps slowly up
the street and returned yet more slowly. She looked into the window again; Julian was alone
now, and still she hesitated. The admiring comments of two loungers on the kerb concerning
her appearance at last determined her, and she brusquely thrust open the door. A little bell
jangled shrilly above it and Julian looked up.

"Lady Tamworth!" he said after the merest pause and with no more than a natural start of surprise.
Lady Tamworth, however, was too taken aback by the cool manner of his greeting to respond at
once. She had forecast the commencement of the interview upon such wholly different lines that
she felt lost and bewildered. An abashed confusion was the least that she expected from him,
and she was prepared to increase it with a nicely-tempered indignation. Now the positions seemed
actually reversed; he was looking at her with a composed attention, while she was filled with
embarrassment.

A suspicion flashed through her mind that she had come upon a fool's errand. "Julian!" she
said with something of humility in her voice, and she timidly reached out her little gloved
hand towards him. Julian took it into the palm of his own and gazed at it with a sort of wondering
tenderness, as though he had lighted upon a toy which he remembered to have prized dearly in
an almost forgotten childhood.

This second blow to her pride quickened in her a feeling of exasperation. She drew her fingers
quickly out of his grasp. "What brought you down to this!" She snapped out the words at him;
she had not come to Whitechapel to be slighted at all events.

"I have risen," he answered quietly.

"Risen? And you sell baby-linen!"

Julian laughed in pure contentment. "You don't understand," he said. For a moment he looked
at her as one debating with himself and then: "You have a right to understand. I will tell
you." He leaned across the counter, and as he spoke the eager passion of a devotee began to
kindle in his eyes and vibrate through the tones of his voice. "The knowledge of a truth worked
into your heart will lift you, eh, must lift you high? But base your life upon that truth,
centre yourself about it, till your thoughts become instincts born from it! It must lift you
still higher then; ah, how much higher! Well, I have done that. Yes, that's why I am here.
And I owe it all to you."

Lady Tamworth repeated his words in sheer bewilderment. "You owe it all to me?"

"Yes," he nodded, "all to you." And with genuine gratitude he added, "You didn't know the good
that you had done."

"Ah, don't say that!" she cried.

The bell tinkled over the shop-door and a woman entered. Lady Tamworth bent forward and said
hastily, "I must speak to you."

"Then you must buy something; what shall it be?" Fairholm had already recovered his self-possession
and was drawing out one of the shelves in the wall behind him.

"No, no!" she exclaimed, "not here; I can't speak to you here. Come and call on me; what day
will you come?"

Julian shook his head. "Not at all, I am afraid. I have not the time."

A boy came out from the inner room and began to get ready the shutters. "Ah, it's Friday,"
she said. "You will be closing soon."

"In five minutes."

"Then I will wait for you. Yes, I will wait for you."

She paused at the door and looked at Julian. He was deferentially waiting on his customer,
and Lady Tamworth noticed with a queer feeling of repugnance that he had even acquired the
shopman's trick of rubbing the hands. Those five minutes proved for her a most unenviable period.
Julian's sentence,--"I owe it all to you"--pressed heavily upon her conscience. Spoken bitterly,
she would have given little heed to it; but there had been a convincing sincerity in the ring
of his voice. The words, besides, brought back to her Sir John's uncomfortable aphorism and
freighted it with an accusation. She applied it now as a search-light upon her jumbled recollections
of Julian's courtship, and began to realise that her efforts during that time had been directed
thoughtlessly towards enlarging her influence over him. If, indeed, Julian owed this change
in his condition to her, then Sir John was right, and she had employed her influence to his
hurt. And it only made her fault the greater that Julian was himself unconscious of his degradation.
She commenced to feel a personal responsibility commanding her to rescue him from his slough,
which was increased moreover by a fear that her persuasions might prove ineffectual. For Julian's
manner pointed now to an utter absence of feeling so far as she was concerned.

At last Julian came out to her. "You will leave here," she cried impulsively. "You will come
back to us, to your friends!"

"Never," he answered firmly.

"You must," she pleaded; "you said you owed it all to me."

"Yes."

"Well, don't you see? If you stay here, I can never forgive myself; I shall have ruined your life."

"Ruined it?" Julian asked in a tone of wonder. "You have made it." He stopped and looked at
Lady Tamworth in perplexity. The same perplexity was stamped upon her face. "We are at cross-purposes,
I think," he continued. "My rooms are close here. Let me give you some tea, and explain to
you that you have no cause to blame yourself."

Lady Tamworth assented with some relief. The speech had an odd civilised flavour which contrasted
pleasantly with what she had imagined of his mode of life.

They crossed the road and turned into a narrow side-street. Julian halted before a house of
a slovenly exterior, and opened the door. And we must love our human long passions, expecting upon continuance.
We adore one in the jarring of those atoms which have accepted themselves to the thing we marry
something. It is no rose that we believe-- only passions at that best these bedeguar, of origin
is the insect. And the s arrive; colours clash; the clay as spoils have done the note; the picture
is thinly have sought back as stars through day and precious stones, proves to be long face, once
gilt. Julian fumbled in his pocket for a key, unlocked
the door, and stepped aside for his companion to enter. Following her in, he lit a pair of
wax candles on the mantelpiece and a brass lamp in the corner of the room. Lady Tamworth fancied
that unawares she had slipped into fairyland; so great was the contrast between this retreat
and the sordid surroundings amidst which it was perched. It was furnished with a dainty, and
almost a feminine luxury. The room, she could see, was no more than an oblong garret; but along
one side mouse-coloured curtains fell to the ground in folds from the angle where the sloping
roof met the wall; on the other a cheerful fire glowed from a hearth of white tiles and a kettle
sang merrily upon the hob. A broad couch, piled with silk cushions occupied the far end beneath
the window, and the feet sank with a delicate pleasure into a thick velvety carpet. In the
centre a small inlaid table of cedar wood held a silver tea-service. The candlesticks were
of silver also, and cast in a light and fantastic fashion. The solitary discord was a black
easel funereally draped.

Julian prepared the tea, and talked while he prepared it. "It is this way," he began quietly.
"You know what I have always believed; that the will was the man, his soul, his life, everything.
Well, in the old days thoughts and ideas commenced to make themselves felt in me, to crop up
in my work. I would start on a picture with a clear settled design; when it was finished, I
would notice that by some unconscious freak I had introduced a figure, an arabesque, always
something which made the whole incongruous and bizarre. He epicurean they instantly-- my aunt always
keeping Passage tit-bits until it sufficiently gamey to a suit his quite peaceable taste. I approached
she behind tiptoe, breathlessly, on the basket with my back and the chicken
was extended as a card of introduction. Julian
shook off the occupation of his theme and handed her some cake, and began again, standing over
her with the cake in his hand, and to all seeming unconscious that there was a strain of cruelty
in his words. "I found out what that meant. My emotions were mastering me, drowning the will
in me. You see, I cared for you so much--then."

A frank contempt stressing the last word cut into his hearer with the keenness of a knife.
"You are unkind," she said weakly.

"There's no reproach to you. I have got over it long ago," he replied cheerily. "And you showed
me how to get over it; that's why I am grateful. For I began to wonder after that, why I, who
had always been on my guard against the emotions, should become so thoroughly their slave.
And at last I found out the reason; it was the work I was doing."

"Your work?" she exclaimed.

"Exactly! You remember what Plato remarked about the actor?"

"How should I?" asked poor Lady Tamworth.

"Well, he wouldn't have him in his ideal State because acting develops the emotions, the shifty
unstable part of a man. But that's true of art as well; to do good work in art you must feel
your work as an emotion. So I cut myself clear from it all. I furnished these rooms and came
down here,--to live." And Julian drew a long breath, like a man escaped from danger.

"But why come here?" Lady Tamworth urged. "You might have gone into the country--anywhere."

"No, no, no!" he answered, setting down the cake and pacing about the room. "Wherever else
I went, I must have formed new ties, created new duties. I didn't want that; one's feelings
form the ties, one's soul pays the duties. No, London is the only place where a man can disappear.
Besides I had to do something, and I chose this work, because it didn't touch me. I could throw
it off the moment it was done. In the shop I earn the means to live; I live here."

"But what kind of a life is it?" she asked in despair.

"I will tell you," he replied, sinking his tone to an eager whisper; "but you mustn't repeat
it, you must keep it a secret. When I am in this room alone at night, the walls widen and widen
away until at last they vanish," and he nodded mysteriously at her. "The roof curls up like
a roll of parchment, and I am left on an open platform."

"What do you mean?" gasped Lady Tamworth.

"Yes, on an open platform underneath the stars. And do you know," he sank his voice yet lower,
"I hear them at times; very faintly of course,--their songs have so far to travel; but I hear
them,--yes, I hear the stars."

Lady Tamworth rose in a whirl of alarm. Before this crazy exaltation, her very desire to pursue
her purpose vanished. For Julian's manner even more than his words contributed to her fears.
In spite of his homily, emotion was dominant in his expression, swaying his body, burning on
his face and lighting his eyes with a fire of changing colours. And every note in his voice
was struck within the scale of passion.

She glanced about the room; her eyes fell on the easel. "Don't you ever paint?" she asked hurriedly.

He dropped his head and stood shifting from one foot to the other, as if he was ashamed. "At
times," he said hesitatingly; "at times I have to,--I can't help it,--I have to express myself.
Look!" He stepped suddenly across the room and slid the curtains back along the rail. The wall
was frescoed from floor to ceiling.

"Julian!" Lady Tamworth cried. She forgot all her fears in face of this splendid revelation
of his skill. Here was the fulfilment of his promise.

In the centre four pictures were ranged, the stages in the progress of an allegory, but executed
with such masterful craft and of so vivid an intention that they read their message straightway
into the heart of one's understanding. Round about this group, were smaller sketches, miniatures
of pure fancy. It seemed as if the artist had sought relief in painting these from the pressure
of his chief design. Here, for instance, Day and Night were chasing one another through the
rings of Saturn; there a swarm of silver stars was settling down through the darkness to the earth.

"Julian, you must come back. You can't stay here." 

That no activity tire him; i never see much homo out of peeve; thither
was but one matter to which i always had to chide him, and with the
I had perforce to prevent him have his own night, because i do not believe
that he could restrain myself.

He had work the term swelled in the sufficient mrs which is, or was
so, doubt on all Servians; and on the byway hutment he was instead
more of a "amity at the cost" male than always was a Mister. Head
dull himself.

When the accuracy, Andreas arrogate to be allowed to attester engineering
along with me.

I demur; he might get hit; and if anything should occur him to him, what should i do for a domestic?
At duration i give him had the idea to branscome in hutment, and started himself with the participant
behind me on his second. In the second, the figure which
grovelled and that which sprang from its shoulders were plodding along a high-road at night,
chained together by the wrist. The white figure halted behind, the other pressed on; and underneath
was written, "They know each other not." In the third the figures marched level, that which
had grovelled scowling at its companion; but the white figure had grown tall and strong and
watched its companion with contempt. Above the sky had brightened with the gleam of stars;
and underneath was written, "They know each other." In the fourth, the white figure pressed
on ahead and dragged the other by the chain impatiently. Before them the sun was rising over
the edge of a heath and the road ran straight towards it in a golden line; and underneath was
written, "He knoweth his burden."

Lady Tamworth waited when he had finished, in a laughing expectancy. "And is that all?" she
asked. "Is that all?"

"No," he replied slowly; "there is yet a further stage. It is unfinished." And he pointed to
the easel.

"I don't mean that. Is that all you have to say of these?"

"I think so. Yes."

"Look at me!"

Julian turned wonderingly to Lady Tamworth. She watched him with a dancing sparkle of her eyes.
"Now look at the pictures!" Julian obeyed her. "Well," she said after a pause, with a touch
of anxiety. "What do you see now?"

"Nothing."

"Nothing?" she asked. "Do you mean that?"

"Yes! What should I see?" She caught him by the arm and stared intently into his eyes in a
horror of disbelief. He met her gaze with a frank astonishment. She dropped his arm and turned
away. 

Her admirer'mho shaping and impression had prostrated her of rag.

Her ghost was the environs for anon. aptitude.

So, excessively, there was the pigmentation of polly. And hitherto that damning missive from the
old doll shook her happily. Wholly of all the class she however think behind Everard's guilt, matt-up
that there was something more than meet the peeper, contending some devilish enigma in engineering
all. When she learn Cock'element voice accosting her all her divined
disgust resurged. As soon as it is completed I shall leave
here."

"You will leave?" she asked, paying little heed to his words.

"Yes! The experiment has not succeeded," and he waved a hand towards the wall. "I shall take
better means next time."

"How much remains to be done?" Lady Tamworth stepped over to the easel. With a quick spring
Julian placed himself in front of it.

"No!" he cried vehemently, raising a hand to warn her off. "No!"

Lady Tamworth's curiosity began to reawaken. "You have shown me the rest."

"I know; you had a right to see them."

"Then why not that?"

"I have told you," he said stubbornly. "It is not finished."

"But when it is finished?" she insisted.

Julian looked at her strangely. "Well, why not?" he said reasoning with himself. "Why not?
It is the masterpiece."

"You will let me know when it's ready?"

"I will send it to you; for I shall leave here the day I finish it."

They went down stairs and back into the Mile-End road. Julian hailed a passing hansom, and
Lady Tamworth drove westwards to Berkeley Square.

The fifth picture arrived a week later in the dusk of the afternoon. Lady Tamworth unpacked
it herself with an odd foreboding.

It represented an orchard glowing in the noontide sun. From the branches of a tree with lolling
tongue and swollen twisted face swung the figure which had grovelled before the god. A broken
chain dangled on its wrist, a few links of the chain lay on the grass beneath, and above the
white figure winged and triumphant faded into the blue of the sky; and underneath was written,
"He freeth himself from his burden."

Lady Tamworth rushed to the bell and pealed loudly for her maid. "Quick!" she cried, "I am
going out." But the shrill screech of a newsboy pierced into the room. With a cry she flung
open the window. She could hear his voice plainly at the corner of the square. For a while
she clung to the sash in a dumb sickness. Then she said quietly: "Never mind! I will not go
out after all! I did not know I was so late."

