  James P. Casey, executed May 22nd, 1856.
  Charles Cora, executed May 22nd, 1856.
  Joseph Hetherington, executed July 29th, 1856.
  Philander Brace, executed July 29th, 1856.
  Yankee Sullivan (Francis Murray), suicided May 31st, 1856.
  Chas. P. Duane, shipped on "Golden Age," June 5th, 1856.
  William Mulligan, shipped on "Golden Age," June 5th, 1856.
  Woolley Kearney, shipped on "Golden Age," June 5th, 1856.
  Bill Carr, sent to Sandwich Islands, June 5th, 1856, bark "Yankee."
  Martin Gallagher, sent to Sandwich Island, June 5th, 1856, bark
      "Yankee."
  Edward Bulger, sent to Sandwich Islands, June 5th, 1856, bark "Yankee."
  Peter Wightman, ran away about June 1st, 1856.
  Ned McGowan, ran away about June 1st, 1856.
  John Crow, left on "Sonora," June 20th, 1856.
  Bill Lewis, shipped on "Sierra Nevada,"--June 20th, 1856.
  Terrence Kelley, shipped on "Sierra Nevada," June 20, 1856.
  John Lowler, shipped on "Sierra Nevada," June 20th, 1856.
  William Hamilton, shipped on "Sierra Nevada," June 20th, 1856.
  James Cusick, ordered to leave but refused to go, and fled into the
      interior.
  James Hennessey, ordered to leave, but fled to the interior.
  T. B. Cunningham, shipped July 5th, 1856, on "John L. Stephens."
  Alex. H. Purple, shipped July 5th, 1856, on "John L. Stephens."
  Torn Mulloy, shipped July 5th, 18,56, on "John L. Stephens."
  Lewis Mahoney, shipped July 5, 1856, on "John L. Stephen,."
  J. R. Maloney, shipped July 5th, 1856, on "John L. Stephens."
  Dan'l Aldrich, shipped July 5th, 1856, on "John L. Stephens."
  James White, Shipped July 21st, 1856, on "Golden Age."
  James Burke, alias "Activity," shipped July 21st, 1856, on
      "Golden Age."
  Wm. F. McLean, shipped July 21st, 1856, on "Golden Age."
  Abraham Kraft, shipped July 21st, 1856, on "Golden Age."
  John Stephens, shipped September 5, 1856, on "Golden Age."
  James Thompson, alias "Liverpool Jack," shipped September 5, 1856, on
      "Golden Age."

Many others either left of their own volition or under orders to leave the state.

Bulger and Gallagher who had been shipped out of the country on June 5th returned to San Francisco.
In their haste the Committee had failed to read their sentences to them and they were not aware
of the penalty of returning. They were again shipped out of the country and ordered not to
return under penalty of death.

There were 489 persons killed during the first 10 months of 1856. Six of these were hanged
by the Sheriff, and forty-six by the mobs, and the balance were killed by various means by
the lawless element.

"Fort Gunnybags" 1903.

On March 21, 1903, the California Historic Landmarks League placed a bronze tablet on the face
of the building at 215 Sacramento street that had formerly been the headquarters of the Vigilance
Committee of 1856, inscribed as follows: "Fort Gunnybags was situated on this spot, headquarters
of the Vigilance Committee in the year 1856." Many of the old Committee and Pioneers participated
in the ceremonies. The old Monumental bell which had been used those stirring days was also
in evidence and pealed out its last "call to arms."

Closing Chapter of Vigilance Committee.

As a closing chapter to the history of the Vigilance Committee of 1856, or at least the immediate
cause of its coming into existence, there was sold at public auction in San Francisco on the
evening of January 14th, 1913, the very papers that James King, of William, had had transcribed
from the records in New York and published in his paper the "Evening Bulletin" showing the
record of Casey's indictment, imprisonment and pardon, the publication of which he, Casey,
resented by shooting King. In addition to these documents were sold many of the books, papers,
etc., of as well as other books and papers relating to the Vigilance Committee that had been
collected together by Mr. C. J. King, a son of James King of William.

Vigilance Committee Work In 1849, '50 and '51.

While there has been a great deal said about the Vigilance Committee in California in 1856,
there has not been much said about it in '49, '50 and '51. That the reader may know what was
going on up to that time, I must now draw largely from previously published accounts for my
information, for a condensed statement.

On the 30th day of January, 1847, Mr. Washington A. Bartlet became the first Alcalde of San
Francisco, under the American flag. At this time the population numbered 500, including Indians.
During '47 and '48 it increased to two thousand, and by the last of July, 1849, it was over
five thousand. The condition of the town at this time was terribly demoralized, gambling, drunkenness
and fights on every corner. About this this came a class of offscourings of other countries
and the curses to California. It was during this dreadful state of uncertainty that the famous
Vigilance Committee of 1851 was organized, and it now became known that there was an organized
committee for the purpose of dealing with criminals. It was about this time the case of John
Jenkins came up and he was arrested and tried by the Committee, and condemned to be hanged.
He was then hanged until he was dead. The tragic fate of Jenkins, and the determination manifested
to deal severely with the villains had the effect of frightening many away. The steamers to
Stockton and Sacramento were crowded with the flying rascals. The Sydney Coves and the more
desperate characters remained. At this, time the city served notices on all persons known to
be vicious characters to leave the city at once, on fear of being forcibly expelled to the
places whence they had come. This was rigidly enforced and had a very wholesome effect.

The next one to come before the Committee was James Stuart, who was transported from England
to Australia for forgery. It is not worth while to go into details on account of this man,
for he confessed to crimes enough to hang him a dozen times. On the morning of July 11th, 1851,
the taps on the bell of the Monumental Engine House summoned the entire Vigilance Committee.
The prisoner was then allowed two hours grace, during which time the Rev. Dr. Mills was closeted
with him in communion. After the expiration of the two hours, the condemned was led forth under
a strong guard. He was taken down Battery street to the end of the Market street wharf, where
everything had been previously arranged for the execution. Very soon after the procession reached
the spot the fatal rope was adjusted and the condemned hoisted up by a derrick.

The hanging of Stuart seems to have been a very bungling piece of work, but this man's life
was given to evil doing, and the great number of crimes confessed and committed by him would
seem to say that he was not deserving of any more sympathy than which he got. This was a sorry
spectacle, a human being dying like a dog, but necessity, which dared not trust itself to feelings
of compassion, commanded the deed, and unprofitable sentiment sunk abashed.

Two more criminals and I am done with rough characters--Samuel Whittaker and Robert McKenzie,
who had been arrested and duly and fairly tried by the Committee. They confessed their guilt
and were condemned to be hanged. Their names being familiar and repulsive to all decent citizens.
They were hanged side by side in public view on August 24th, 1851. The sight striking terror
to the hearts of other evildoers, who were impressed by these examples that they could no longer
be safe in San Francisco, such as had been suspected and notified by the Committee, quickly
left the city; they, however, found no shelter in the interior.

This brings me to where I took up the Vigilance Committee of 1856.

San Francisco In 1847.

In view of the great and growing importance of the town of San Francisco (Yerba Buena), situated
on the great bay of the same name, we will give our readers a few pertinent and fully reliable
statements.

"The townsite, as recently surveyed, embraces an extent of one and one-half square miles. It
is regularly laid out, being intersected by streets from 60 to 80 feet in width. The squares
are divided into lots of from 16 1/2 varas (the Spanish yard of 33 1/3 inches) front and 50
deep, to 100 varas square. The smaller and more valuable of these lots are those situated between
high and low water mark. Part of these lots were sold in January last at auction, and brought
from $50 to $600. The established prices of 50 and 100 vara lots are $12 and $25.

San Francisco, last August, contained 459 souls, of whom 375 were whites, four-fifths of these
being under 40 years of age. Some idea of the composition of the white population may be gathered
from the following statement as to the nationality of the larger portion: English, 22; German,
27; Irish, 14; Scotch, 14: born in the United States, 228; Californians, 89.

Previously to the first of April, 1847, there had been erected in the town 79 buildings, nearly
all of which had been erected within the two years preceding, whereas in the next four months
78 more had been constructed.

There can be no better evidence of the advantages and capabilities for improvement of the place
than this single fact."--St. Louis "Reville," February 12, 1848.

John A. Sutter.

I remember standing on the bank of the Sacramento River, talking with Captain Sutter, in the
fall of '49; he remarked, "I have moored my boats in the tops of those cottonwood trees, where
the driftwood showed not less than 25 feet from the ground."

"The Plaza."

Portsmouth Square or the "Plaza," as we then called it, was located in the hub of the old settlement
on the cove, and occupied half a block to the west of Kearny street, between Clay and Washington.
It was the scene of all public meetings and demonstrations. It was named after the old sloop-of-war
"Portsmouth," whose commanding officer, Captain Montgomery, landed with a command of 70 sailors
and marines on July 8, 1846, raised the American flag here and proclaimed the occupancy of
Northern California by the United States. A salute of twenty-one guns was fired from the "Portsmouth"
simultaneously.

On the east side of Kearny street, opposite the Plaza, was the "El Dorado," a famous gambling
saloon, adjoining which was the Parker House, afterwards the Jenny Lind Theatre, while on the
north side of Washington street stood the Bella Union Theatre, and on the west on Brenham Place
was the old Monumental Fire Engine House whose fire bell played so prominent a part in the
days of the Vigilantes.

In the spring of 1850 the writer was in San Francisco, and made the acquaintance of Captains
Egery and Hinkley, who were the owners of the Pacific Foundry. They being in need of some molding
sand for small work, I consented to go to San Jose and get some for them. I engaged Mr. Watts,
who had a little schooner that would carry about six tons. He was captain and I was super-cargo,
and we made the trip down in about one day. I found what I wanted on the banks of a slough,
loaded the schooner and returned to San Francisco. While in San Jose I came across two young
ladies. I had a very pleasant chat with them. I learned later on that they were the daughters
of Mr. Burnett, who became the first Governor of California. I heard no more of them until
1910, when I was on my way to Monterey to attend the unveiling of the Sloat Monument. I enquired
for them of a man in the depot, and he told me that one of them was lying over there, dead
(pointing in the direction), I could not help expressing my sorrow.

The captain landed me and my cargo in San Francisco in good shape, without any mishap on the
voyage. I delivered the cargo in good order and was well paid.

Early Realty Values.

In 1850 I was in San Francisco and by chance was on Clay street where the city was selling
50-vara water lots in the neighborhood of Sansome, Battery and Front streets, at auction, $25
for inside lot, and $30 for corner lots. I stood there with my hands in my pockets, and gold
dust and gold coin on my person that was a burden to me and bought not a single lot. There
were many others who were in the same fix that I was. You may say, "What a lot of fools," and
I would say, "Yes." Here is another little joke: Sometime before this I made a deposit of a
sack of gold dust with Adams & Co.'s Express in San Francisco. When the time came for me to
leave the city, I went into the office to draw my sack of dust. The clerk brought it forward
at once and I said, "How much for the deposit?" He said, "Five dollars." Then I said, "You
will have to take it out of the sack as I have no coin." He said, "Are you going to sell it?"
"Yes," I said. "Well," said he, "You can sell it at the counter on the other side, and pay
that clerk." "All right," said I, and sold my dust. It amounted to $425. He counted out the
$25 in small change, and slipped it out onto the counter. I let it lay there until he had counted
out the rest.

A Deal In "Slugs."

At this time the $50 slugs were in circulation. He counted out the $400 in a pile and took
hold of the bottom one and set the pile over to my side of the counter, as much as to say,
"There is your money." I said to him "There is five dollars coming to you for the deposit of
the dust." He picked the five dollars out of the change on the counter. I picked up the balance
of the change and put it into my pocket. I also picked up the pile of slugs by the bottom one
in the same way that he handed them to me and dropped them into an outside pocket of my coat
without counting them, and started for the four o'clock boat for Stockton. On my way to the
wharf  I thought that pile of slugs looked large and I took them out and counted them. I found
that I had twelve instead of eight. I turned around and went back to the office, to the same
counter and clerk, and said to him, "Do you rectify mistakes here?" He said, "Not after a man
leaves the office." I said, "All right," and left the office and made the Stockton boat all
right. But there were no insane asylums there at that time.

Harry Meiggs.

