For many years there was a good deal of prejudice in England against investing abroad, especially
among the more sleepy classes of investors who had made their money in home trade, and liked
to keep it there when they invested it. As traders, we learnt a world-wide outlook many centuries
before we did so as investors. To send a ship with a cargo of English goods to a far off country
to be exchanged into its products was a risk that our enterprising forefathers took readily.
The ship took in its return cargo and came home, bringing its sheaves with it in a reasonable
time, though the Antonios of the period sometimes had awkward moments if their ships were delayed
by bad weather, and they were liable on a bond to Shylock. But it was quite another matter
to lend money in a distant country when communication was slow and difficult, and social and
political conditions had not gained the stability that is needed before contracts can be entered
into extending over many years. International moneylending took place, of course, in the middle
ages, and everybody knows Motley's great description of the consternation that shook Europe
when Philip the Second repudiated his debts "to put an end to such financiering and unhallowed
practices with bills of exchange."[3] But though there were moneylenders in those days who
obliged foreign potentates with loans, the business was in the hands of expert professional
specialists, and there was no medieval counterpart of the country doctor whom we have imagined
to be developing industry all over the world by placing his savings in foreign countries. There
could be no investing public until there were large classes that had accumulated wealth by
saving, and until the discovery of the principle of limited liability enabled adventurers to
put their savings into industry without running the risk of losing not only what they put in,
but all else that they possessed. By means of this system, the risk of a shareholder in a company
is limited to a definite amount, usually the amount that has been paid up on his shares or
stock, though in some cases, such as bank and insurance shares, there is a further reserve
liability which is left for the protection of the companies' customers.

In the eighteenth century a great outburst of gambling in the East Indian and South Sea companies,
and a horde of less notorious concerns was a short-lived episode which must have helped for
a very long time to strengthen the natural prejudice that investors feel in favour of putting
their money into enterprise at home; and it was still further strengthened by the disastrous
results of another great plague of bad foreign securities that smote London just after the
war that ended at Waterloo. This prejudice survived up to within living memory, and I have
heard myself old-fashioned stockbrokers maintain that, after all, there was no investment like
Home Rails, because investors could always go and look at their property, which could not run
away. Gradually, however, the habit of foreign investment grew, under the influence of the
higher rates of interest and profit offered by new countries, the greater political stability
that was developed in them, and political apprehensions at home. In fact it grew so fast and
so lustily that there came a time, not many years ago, when investments at home were under
a cloud, and many clients, when asking their brokers where and how to place their savings,
stipulated that they must be put somewhere abroad.

This was at a time when Mr. Lloyd George's financial measures were arousing resentment and
fear among the investing classes, and when preachers of the Tariff Reform creed were laying
so much stress on our "dying industries" that they were frightening those who trusted them
into the belief that the sun was setting on our industrial greatness. The effect of this belief
was to bring down the prices of home securities, and to raise those of other countries, as
investors changed from the former into the latter.

So the theory that we were industrially and financially doomed got another argument from its
own effects, and its missionaries were able to point to the fall in Consols and the relative
steadiness of foreign and colonial securities which their own preaching had brought about,
as fresh evidence of its truth. At the same time fear of Socialistic legislation at home had
the humorous result of making British investors fear to touch Consols, but rush eagerly to
buy the securities of Colonial Governments which had gone much further in the direction of
Socialism than we had. Those were great days for all who handled the machinery of oversea investment
and in the last few years before the war it is estimated that England was placing some 200
millions a year in her colonies and dependencies and in foreign countries. Old-fashioned folk
who still believed in the industrial strength and financial stability of their native land
waited for the reaction which was bound to follow when some of the countries into which we
poured capital so freely, began to find a difficulty in paying the interest; and just before
the war this reaction began to happen, in consequence of the default in Mexico and the financial
embarrassments of Brazil. Mexico had shown that the political stability which investors had
believed it to have achieved was a very thin veneer and a series of revolutions had plunged
that hapless land into anarchy. Brazil was suffering from a heavy fall in the price of one
of her chief staple products, rubber, owing to the competition of plantations in Ceylon, Straits
Settlements and elsewhere, and was finding difficulty in meeting the interest on the big load
of debt that the free facilities given by English and French investors had encouraged her to
pile up. She had promised retrenchment at home, and another big loan was being hatched to tide
her over her difficulties--or perhaps increase them--when the war cloud began to gather and
she has had to resort for the second time in her history to the indignity of a funding scheme.
By this "new way of paying old debts" she does not pay interest to her bondholders in cash,
but gives them promises to pay instead, and so increases the burden of her debt, which she
hopes some day to be able to shoulder again, by resuming payments in cash.

Mexico and Brazil were not the only countries that were showing signs, in 1914, of having indulged
too freely in the opportunities given them by the eagerness of English and French investors
to place money abroad. It looked as if in many parts of the earth a time of financial disillusionment
was dawning, the probable result of which would have been a strong reaction in favour of investment
at home. Then came the war with a short sharp spell of financial chaos followed by a halcyon
period for young countries, which enabled them to sell their products at greatly increased
prices to the warring powers and so to meet their debt charges with an ease that they had never
dreamt of, and even to find themselves lending, out of the abundance of their war profits,
money to their creditors. America has led the way with a loan of £100 millions to France and
England, and Canada has placed 10 millions of credit at the disposal of the Mother Country.
There can be little doubt that if the war goes on, and the neutral countries continue to pile
up profits by selling food and war materials to the belligerents, many of them will find it
convenient to lend some of their gains to their customers. America has also been taking the
place of France and England as international moneylenders by financing Argentina; and a great
company has been formed in New York to promote international activity, on the part of Americans,
in foreign countries. "And thus the whirligig of time," assisted by the eclipse of civilization
in Europe, "brings in his revenges" and turns debtors into creditors. In the meantime it need
hardly be said that investment at home has become for the time being a matter of patriotic
duty for every Englishman, since the financing of the war has the first and last claim on his
savings.

Our present concern, however, is not with the war problems of to-day, but with the processes
of international finance in the past, and perhaps, before we get to the end, with some attempt
to hazard a glimpse into its arrangements in the future. What was the effect on England, and
on the countries to whom she lent, of her moneylending activity in the past? As soon as we
begin to look into this question we see once more how close is the connection between finance
and trade, and that finance is powerless unless it is supported and in fact made possible by
industrial or commercial activity behind it. England's international trade made her international
finance possible and necessary. A country can only lend money to others if it has goods and
services to supply, for in fact it lends not money but goods and services.

In the beginnings of international trade the older countries exchange their products for the
raw materials and food produced by the new ones. Then, as emigrants from the old countries
go out into the new ones, they want to be supplied with the comforts and appliances of the
older civilizations, such as, to take an obvious example, railways. But as the productions
of the new countries, at their early stage of development, do not suffice to pay for all the
material and machinery needed for building railways, they borrow, in effect, these materials,
in the expectation that the railways will open out their resources, enable them to put more
land under the plough and bring more stuff to the seaboard, to be exchanged for the products
of Europe. The new country, New Zealand or Japan, or whichever it may be, raises a loan in
England for the purpose of building a railway, but it does not take the money raised by the
loan in the form of money, but in the form of goods needed for the railway, and sometimes in
the form of the services of those who plan and build it. It does not follow that all the stuff
and services needed for the enterprise are necessarily bought in the country that lends the
money; for instance, if Japan borrows money from us for a railway, she may buy some of the
steel rails and locomotives in Belgium, and instruct us to pay Belgium for her purchases. If
so, instead of sending goods to Japan we shall have to send goods or services to Belgium, or
pay Belgium with the claim on some other country that we have established by sending goods
or services to it. But, however long the chain may be, the practical fact is that when we lend
money we lend somebody the right to claim goods or services from us, whether they are taken
from us by the borrower, or by somebody to whom the borrower gives a claim on us.

If, whenever we made a loan, we had to send the money to the borrower in the form of gold,
our gold store would soon be used up, and we should have to leave off lending. In other words,
our financiers would have to retire from business very quickly if it were not that our manufacturers
and shipowners and all the rest of our industrial army produced the goods and services to meet
the claims on our industry given, or rather lent, to other countries by the machinery of finance.

This obvious truism is often forgotten by those who look on finance as an independent influence
that can make money power out of nothing; and those who forget it are very likely to find themselves
entangled in a maze of error. We can make the matter a little clearer if we go back to the
original saver, whose money, or claims on industry, is handled by the professional financier.
Those who save do so by going without things. Instead of spending their earnings on immediate
enjoyment they spend part of them in providing somebody else with goods that they need, and
taking from that somebody else an annual payment for the use of these goods for a certain period,
after which, if it is a case of a loan, the transaction is closed by repayment of the advance,
which again is effected by a transfer of goods. When our country doctor subscribes to an Australian
loan raised by a colony for building a railway, he hands over to the colony money which a less
thrifty citizen would have spent on pleasures and amusements, and the colony uses it to buy
railway material. Thus in effect the doctor is spending his money in making a railway in Australia.
He is induced to do so by the promise of the colony to give him £4 every year for each £100
that he lends. If there were not enough people like him to put money into industry instead
of spending it on themselves, there could be no railway building or any other form of industrial
growth. It is often contended that a reconstruction of society on a Socialistic basis would
abolish the capitalist; but in fact it would make everybody a capitalist because the State
would have to make the citizens as a whole go without certain immediate enjoyments and work
on the production of the machinery of industry. Instead of saving being left to the individual
and rewarded by a rate of interest, it would be imposed on all and rewarded by a greater productive
power, and consequent increase in commodities, enjoyed by the community and distributed among
all its members. The advantages, on paper, of such an arrangement over the present system are
obvious. Whether they would be equally obvious in practice would depend on the discretion with
which the Government handled the enormous responsibility placed in its hands. But the essential
fact that capital can only be got by being saved, and earns the reward that it gets, would
remain as strongly in force as ever, and will do so until we have learnt to make goods out
of nothing and without effort.

Going back to our doctor, who lends railway material to an Australian colony, we see that every
year for each £100 lent the colony has to send him £4. This it can only do if its mines and
fields and factories can turn out metals or wheat or wool, or other goods which can be shipped
to England or elsewhere and be sold, so that the doctor's £4 is provided. And so though on
both sides the transaction is expressed in money it is in fact carried out in goods, both when
the loan is made and the interest is paid. And finally when the loan is paid back again, the
colony must have sold goods to provide repayment, unless it meets its debts by raising another.
But when a loan is well spent on a railway that is needed for the development of a fertile
or productive district, it justifies itself by cheapening transport and quickening the output
of wealth in such a manner, that the increased volume of goods that it has helped to create
easily meets the interest due to lenders, provides a fund for its redemption at maturity, and
leaves the borrower better off, with a more fully equipped productive system.

Since, then, there is this close and obvious connection between finance and trade, it is inevitable
that all who partake in the activities of international finance should find their trade quickened
by it. England has lent money abroad because she is a great producer, and certain classes of
Englishmen are savers, so that there was a balance of goods available for export, to be lent
to other countries. In the early years of the nineteenth century, when our industrial power
was first beginning to gather strength, we used regularly to export goods to a greater value
than we imported. These were the goods that we were lending abroad, clearly showing themselves
in our trade ledger. Since then the account has been complicated by the growth of the amount
that our debtors owe us every year for interest, and by the huge earnings of our merchant navy,
which other countries pay by shipping goods to us, so that, by the growth of these items, the
trade balance sheet has been turned in the other direction, and in spite of our lending larger
and larger amounts all over the world we now have a balance of goods coming in. Interest due
to us and shipping freights and the commissions earned by our bankers and insurance companies
were estimated before the war to amount to something like 350 millions a year, so that we were
able to lend other countries some 200 millions or more in a year and still take from them a
very large balance in goods. After the war this comfortable state of affairs will have been
modified by the sales that we are making now in New York of the American Railroad bonds and
shares that represented the savings that we had put into America in former years, and by the
extent of our war borrowings in America, and elsewhere, if we widen the circle of our creditors.
The effect of this will be that we shall owe America for interest on the money that it is lending
us, and that it will owe us less interest, owing to the blocks of its securities that it is
buying back. Against this we shall be able to set debts due to us from our Allies, but if our
borrowings and sales of securities exceed our lendings as the war goes on, we shall thereby
be poorer. Our power as a creditor country will be less, until by hard work and strict saving
we have restored it. This we can very quickly do, if we remember and apply the lessons that
war is teaching us about the number of people able to work, whose capacity was hitherto left
fallow, that this country contained, and also about the ease with which we can dispense, when
a great crisis makes us sensible, with many of the absurdities and futilities on which much
of our money, and productive capacity, used to be wasted.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: "United Netherlands," chap. xxxii.]

CHAPTER V

THE BENEFITS OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE

When once we have recognized how close is the connection between finance and trade, we have
gone a long way towards seeing the greatness of the service that finance renders to mankind,
whether it works at home or abroad. At home we owe our factories and our railways and all the
marvellous equipment of our power to make things that are wanted, to the quiet, prosaic, and
often rather mean and timorous people who have saved money for a rainy day, and put it into
industry instead of into satisfying their immediate wants and cravings for comfort and enjoyment
It is equally, perhaps still more, true, that we owe them to the brains and energy of those
who have planned and organized the equipment of industry, and the thews and sinews of those
who have done the heavy work. But brain and muscle would have been alike powerless if there
had not been saving folk who lent them raw material, and provided them with the means of livelihood
in the interval between the beginning of an industry and the day when its product is sold and
paid for.

Abroad, the work of finance has been even more advantageous to mankind, for since it has been
shown that international finance is a necessary part of the machinery of international trade,
it follows that all the benefits, economic and other, which international trade has wrought
for us, are inseparably and inevitably bound up with the progress of international finance.
If we had never fertilized the uttermost parts of the earth by lending them money and sending
them goods in payment of the sums lent, we never could have enjoyed the stream that pours in
from them of raw material and cheap food which has sustained our industry, fed our population,
and given us a standard of general comfort such as our forefathers could never have imagined.
It is true that at the same time we have benefited others, besides our own customers and debtors.
We have opened up the world to trade and other countries reap an advantage by being able to
use the openings that we have made. It is sometimes argued that we have in fact merely made
the paths of our competitors straight, and that by covering Argentina with a network of railways
and so enormously increasing its power to grow things and so to buy things, we have been making
an opportunity for German shipbuilders to send liners to the Plate and for German manufacturers
to undersell ours with cheap hardware and cotton goods. This is, undoubtedly, true. The great
industrial expansion of Germany between 1871 and 1914, has certainly been helped by the paths
opened for it all over the world by English trade and finance; and America, our lusty young
rival, that is gaining so much strength from the war in which Europe is weakening itself industrially
and financially, will owe much of the ease of her prospective expansion to spade-work done
by the sleepy Britishers. It may almost be said that we and France as the great providers of
capital to other countries have made a world-wide trade possible on its present scale. The
work we have done for our own benefit has certainly helped others, but it does not, therefore,
follow that it has damaged us.

Looking at the matter from a purely business point of view, we see that the great forward movement
in trade and finance that we have led and fostered, has helped us even by helping our rivals.
In the first place, it gives us a direct benefit as the owners of the mightiest fleet of merchant
ships that the world has seen. We do nearly half the world's carrying trade, and so have reason
to rejoice when other nations send goods to the ports that we have opened. By our eminence
in finance and the prestige of a bill of exchange drawn on London, we have also supplied the
credit by which goods have been paid for in the country of their origin, and nursed until they
have come to the land in which they are wanted, and even until the day when they have been
turned into a finished product and passed into the hands of the final consumer. But there is
also the indirect advantage that we gain, as a nation of producers and financiers, from the
growing wealth of other nations. The more wealthy they grow, the more goods they produce want
to sell to us, and they cannot sell to us unless they likewise buy from us. If we helped Germany
to grow rich, we also helped her to become one of our best customers and so to help us to grow
rich. Trade is nothing but an exchange of goods and services. Other countries are not so philanthropic
as to kill our trade by making us presents of their products and from the strictly economic
point of view, it pays us to see all the world, which is our market, a thriving hive of industry
eager to sell us as as it can. It may be that as other countries, with the help of our capital
and example, develop industries in which we have been pre-eminent, they may force us to supply
them with services of which we are less proud to be the producers. If, for example, the Americans
were to drive us out of the neutral markets with their cotton goods, and then spent their profits
by revelling in our hotels and thronging out theatres and shooting in Highland deer forests,
and buying positions in English society for their daughters we should feel that the course
of industry might still be profitable to us, but that it was less satisfactory. On the other
hand, it would be absurd for us to expect the rest of the world to stand still industrially
in order that we may make profits from producing things for it that it is quite able to make
for itself.

For the present we are concerned with the benefits of international finance, which have been
shown to begin with its enormous importance as the handmaid of international trade. Trade between
nations is desirable for exactly the same reason as trade between one man and another, namely,
that each is, naturally or otherwise, better fitted to grow or make certain things, and so
an exchange is to their mutual advantage. If this is so, as it clearly is, in the case of two
men living in the same street, it is evidently very much more so in the case of two peoples
living in different climates and on different soils, and so each of them, by the nature of
their surroundings, able to make and grow things that are impossible to the other. English
investors, by developing the resources of other countries, through the machinery of international
finance, enable us to sit at home in this inclement isle, and enjoy the fruits of tropical
skies and soils. It may be true that if they had not done so we should have developed the resources
of our own country more thoroughly, using it less as a pleasure ground, and more as a farm
and kitchen garden, and that we should have had a larger number of our own folk working for
us under our own sky. Instead of thriving on the produce of foreign climes and foreign labour
that comes to us to pay interest, we should have lived more on home-made stuff and had more
healthy citizens at work on our soil. On the other hand, we should have been hit hard by bad
seasons and we should have enjoyed a much less diversified diet. As it is, we take our tea
and tobacco and coffee and sugar and wine and oranges and bananas and cheap bread and meat,
all as a matter of course, but we could never have enjoyed them if international trade had
not brought them to our shores, and if international finance had not quickened and cheapened
their growth and transport and marketing. International trade and finance, if given a free
hand, may be trusted to bring about, between them, the utmost possible development of the power
of the world to grow and make things in the places where they can be grown and made most cheaply
and abundantly, in other words, to secure for human effort, working on the available raw material,
the greatest possible harvest as the reward of its exertions.

All this is very obvious and very material, but international finance does much more, for it
is a great educator and a mighty missionary of peace and goodwill between nations. This also
is obvious on a moment's reflection, but it will be rejected as a flat mis-statement by many
whose opinion is entitled to respect, and who regard international finance as a bloated spider
which sits in the middle of a web of intrigue and chicanery, enticing hapless mankind into
its toils and battening on bloodshed and war. So clear-headed a thinker as Mr. Philip Snowden
publicly expressed the view not long ago that "the war was the result of secret diplomacy carried
on by diplomatists who had conducted foreign policy in the interests of militarists and financiers,"[4]
Now Mr. Snowden may possibly be right in his view that the war was produced by diplomacy of
the kind that he describes, but with all deference I submit that he is wholly wrong if he thinks
that the financiers, as financiers, wanted war either here or in Germany or anywhere else.
If they wanted war it was because they believed, rightly or wrongly, that their country had
to fight for its existence, or for something equally well worth fighting for, and so as patriotic
citizens, they accepted or even welcomed a calamity that could only cause them, as financiers,
the greatest embarrassment and the chance of ruin. War has benefited the working classes, and
enabled them to take a long stride forward, which we must all hope they will maintain, towards
the improvement in their lot which is so long overdue. It has helped the farmers, put fortunes
in the pockets of the shipowners, and swollen the profits of any manufacturers who have been
able to turn out stuff wanted for war or for the indirect needs of war. The industrial centres
are bursting with money, and the greater spending power that has been diffused by war expenditure
has made the cheap jewellery trade a thriving industry and increased the consumption of beer
and spirits in spite of restrictions and the absence of men at the front. Picture palaces are
crammed nightly, furs and finery have had a wonderful season, any one who has a motor car to
sell finds plenty of ready buyers, and second-hand pianos are an article that can almost be
"sold on a Sunday." But in the midst of this roar of humming trade, finance, and especially
international finance, lies stricken and still gasping from the shock of war. When war comes,
the price of all property shrivels. This was well known to Falstaff, who, when he brought the
news of Hotspur's rebellion, said "You may buy land now as cheap as stinking mackerel," To
most financial institutions, this shrivelling process in the price of their securities and
other assets, brings serious embarrassment, for there is no corresponding decline in their
liabilities, and if they have not founded themselves on the rock of severest prudence in the
past, their solvency is likely to be imperilled. Finance knew that it must suffer. The story
has often been told, and though never officially confirmed, it has at least the merit of great
probability, that in 1911 when the Morocco crisis made a European war probable, the German
Government was held back by the warning of its financiers that war would mean Germany's ruin.
It is more than likely that a similar warning was given in July, 1914, but that the war party
brushed it aside. And now that war is upon us, we are being warned that high finance is intriguing
for peace. Mr. Edgar Crammond, a distinguished economist and statistician, published an article
in the Nineteenth Century of September, 1915, entitled "High Finance and a Premature Peace,"
calling attention to this danger and urging the need for guarding against it. First too bellicose
and now too pacific, High Finance is buffeted and spat upon by men of peace and men of war
with a unanimity that must puzzle it. It can hardly err on both sides, but of the two accusers
I think that Mr. Crammond is much more likely to be right. But my own personal opinion is that
both these accusers are mistaken, that the financiers never wanted war, that if (which I beg
to doubt) diplomacy conducted in their interests produced the war, that was because diplomacy
misunderstood and bungled their interests, and that now that the war is upon us, the financiers,
though all their interests urge them to want peace, would never be parties to intrigues for
a peace that was premature or ill-judged.

Perhaps I have a weakness for financiers, but if so it is entitled to some respect, because
it is based on closer knowledge of them than is owned by most of their critics. For years it
was my business as a City journalist, to see them day by day; and this daily intercourse with
financiers has taught me that the popular delusion that depicts them as hard, cruel, ruthless
men, living on the blood and sweat of humanity, and engulfed to their eyebrows in their own
sordid interests, is about as absurd a hallucination as the stage Irishman. Financiers are
quite human--quiet, mild, good-natured people as a rule, many of them spending much time and
trouble on good works in their leisure hours. What they want as financiers is plenty of good
business and as little as possible disturbance in the orderly course of affairs. Such a cataclysm
as the present war could only terrify them, especially those with interests in every country
of the world. When war comes, especially such a war as this, financing in its ordinary and
most profitable sense has to put up its shutters. Nobody can come to London now for loans except
the British, or French, Governments, or, occasionally, one of our colonies. Any other borrower
is warned off the field by a ruthless Committee whose leave has to be granted before dealings
in new securities are allowed on the Stock Exchange. But when the British Government borrows,
there are no profits for the rank and file of financiers. No underwriting is necessary, and
the business is carried out by the Bank of England. The commissions earned by brokers are smaller,
and the whole City feels that this is no time for profit-making, but for hard and ill-paid
work, with depleted staffs, to help the great task of financing a great war. The Stock Exchange
is half empty and nearly idle. It is tied and bound by all sorts of regulations in its dealings,
and its members have probably suffered as severely from the war as any section of the community.
The first interest of the City is unquestionably peace; and the fact that the City is nevertheless
full of fine, full-flavoured patriotic fervour only shows that it is ready and eager to sink
its interests in favour of those of its country.

Every knot that international finance ties between one country and another makes people in
those two countries interested in their mutual good relations. The thing is so obvious, that,
when one considers the number of these knots that have been tied since international finance
first began to gather capital from one country's investors and place it at the disposal of
others for the development of their resources, one can only marvel that the course of international
goodwill has not made further progress. The fact that it is still a remarkably tender plant,
likely to be crushed and withered by any breath of popular prejudice, is rather a comforting
evidence of the slight importance that mankind attaches to the question of its bread and butter.
It is clear that a purely material consideration, such as the interests of international finance,
and the desire of those who have invested abroad to receive their dividends, weighs very little
in the balance when the nations think that their honour or their national interests are at
stake. Since the gilded cords of trade and finance have knit all the world into one great market,
the proposition that war does not pay has become self-evident to any one who will give the
question a few minutes' thought. International finance is a peacemaker every time it sends
a British pound into a foreign country. But its influence as a peacemaker is astonishingly
feeble just for this reason, that its appeal is to an interest which mankind very rightly disregards
whenever it feels that more weighty matters are in question. The fact that war does not pay
is an argument that is listened to as little by a nation when its blood is up, as the fact
that being in love does not pay would be heeded by an amorous undergraduate.

