THE PASTOR'S SON

BY WILLIAM W. WALTER

DEDICATED TO

F. S. B. IN GRATEFUL RECOGNITION OF WORK WELL DONE

PREFACE

My sole reason for writing this book and placing it before the public is to call the public's
attention to another book, wherein is contained the Christ truth, the understanding of which
will free you from all your troubles.

If in sin, it shows the way out; if sick, it will heal you; if grief-stricken, it will mend
your broken heart; if in poverty, it will give you plenty. I speak from experience, having
been sick for more than seven years, at the edge of the grave, reduced to poverty, and all
earthly hope gone. I was rescued from this inferno on earth, my health restored, my supply
sufficient, my joy complete; surely I can say, my cup of happiness runneth over. Truly that
book sayeth--"Come all ye that are heavy laden and I will give you rest."

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I     THANKSGIVING MORNING

II    THE TURKEY DINNER

III   WHAT WALTER FOUND

IV    PREPARING FOR THE LESSONS

V     THE FIRST LESSON

VI    CONFUSION

VII   THE SECOND LESSON

VIII  THE THIRD LESSON

IX    THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE JOURNAL

X     HUMANITY'S MISTAKE

XI    FALSE INVESTIGATION

XII   A FAIR INVESTIGATION

XIII  THE UNREALITY OF EVIL

XIV   THE DREAM

XV    TRUTH BEING MANIFESTED

XVI   THE FAREWELL SERMON

      A PARTING WORD

CHAPTER I

THANKSGIVING MORNING

"What a beautiful Thanksgiving morning this is," said the Rev. James A. Williams to his son
Walter, as he looked out of the dining-room window. "There isn't a cloud in the sky, and this
soft, balmy breeze from the south makes one almost believe that it is a June morning instead
of the 30th of November. I know there will be a large attendance at church this morning, which
will please me very much, as I have prepared an excellent sermon, and feel certain that the
congregation will enjoy it."

He glanced at his son as he finished speaking, and some of the joy and cheerfulness that had
shown in his eyes faded away, for he saw no return of his joy and happiness on his child's
face; all that was written there was sorrow, pain, and feebleness.

His son, who was nearly seventeen, had always been sickly and feeble since birth; the best
physicians had been employed, change of climate had been tried, and everything else that promised
relief, but of no avail. The best specialists had been consulted, but they gave little hope
that hereditary consumption could be cured, for the minister's wife had been similarly afflicted
for many years.

The Rev. Williams thought silently for a few moments, then tried to regain his cheerfulness
by changing the subject to something that might interest his son; so he said, "Well, wife,
I suppose that turkey Deacon Phillips gave us will be done to perfection by dinner time; I
am beginning to feel hungry already, just from thinking of it and it is two hours to dinner
time yet."

Lillian his wife, looked up from her work with a careworn expression on her face, and said,
"Yes, it is a fine large turkey." His wife always looked worn-out and tired, for not being
strong and still compelled to do all the housework, it fatigued her very much.

It had not always been this way, for the Rev. Williams was a man of ability, his congregation
large, and his salary ample under ordinary circumstances, but the constant drain of physicians'
bills, and the great expense of sending mother and son to a warm climate each fall, as the
rigors of the northern winters were considered too hard for the two invalids to bear, had reduced
them almost to poverty; consequently the expense of a maidservant had long since been dispensed
with.

Rev. Williams now turned to go to his study, and as he was turning, said, "I know that I will
do justice to that turkey, after delivering my long sermon, and I am very thankful to Deacon
Phillips, and to God, for having given it to us."

There was silence for a few moments after the father left the room; then Mrs. Williams said:
"Walter, dear, you had better get ready for church; I will soon have this turkey so I can leave
it, then I will get ready and we will both go to church, there to give thanks to God."

Walter turned to his mother saying, "What have we to be thankful for, mother?"

His mother looked up, somewhat startled, and answered, "Why for everything that God gave us."
"Everything, mother?" asked Walter.

"Yes dear, everything."

"Oh, mother, I don't see how I am going to do that, father told me that God gave me this sickness,
and I don't see how I can feel thankful to Him for making me suffer."

The mother anxiously looked at her son, then said, "Remember Walter, Jesus Christ, the only
Son of God, also suffered."

"Yes, I know, but it was not God that made Him suffer, it was the Pharisees; but father said
it was God gave me this sickness and that I must bear it with love and patience, which I have
tried to do, but I have never been able to understand why a good and loving God should care
to see me suffer."

"I am sure I cannot tell," said his mother, "but it must be for some good purpose; we will
ask your father to explain some time. Now hurry and get ready."

A few minutes later they both walked to the church, which was only a short distance away, and
entered its wide-open doors.

CHAPTER II

THE TURKEY DINNER

"Well wife, what did you think of my sermon?" asked the pastor as he sat down to enjoy the
turkey dinner.

"I think it was the best sermon you ever delivered, James," answered his wife, quietly.

"I think so, too," said James, "and what's more, it ought to make every person that heard it
feel very thankful to God, for all He has given them," then looking around the room he asked,
"Where is Walter?"

"I don't know," said his wife, "he became so nervous and tired, that he left just before the
last hymn was sung. I suppose he went up to his room, you had better call him to dinner."

"I will," answered the pastor, and going to the hall door, he called aloud, "Walter, dinner
is ready."

"All right father, I will be down in a minute," came back the answer in a rather faint voice.
The pastor turned to his wife and asked, "Do you think that last medicine is doing him any
more good than the others we have tried?"

His wife raised her sad face to his, and replied, "No, James, I don't think it is helping him,
for he seems to get weaker and more nervous all the time. I feel that he is losing ground even
more rapidly than I am."

Here Walter entered the room, his face more flushed than usual, and his father's watchful eye
took note of it, but he spoke up cheerfully, "Just look at that turkey, Walter, isn't it a
fine one? See how nice and evenly it is browned, and the oyster dressing, I'll bet it's fit
for a king."

Walter merely glanced at the turkey, then seated himself beside his mother.

After the pastor had said grace, he picked up the carving knife and said, "Now, son, just tell
me what piece you like best and I will have it carved out for you before you can say, Jack
Robinson."

"You are very kind, father, but I don't believe I care for any turkey, I am not feeling very
well," answered Walter.

"Just try a little, Walter," said the mother coaxingly, "I know it must be very tender and
nice, for Deacon Phillips said it was a young turkey."

"Yes, Walter," said his father, "hand me your plate, and I will give you a little of the dark
and a little of the light meat, with some of this delicious dressing."

