"I hope so. Oh, what should we do if she should--But the doctor says the fever takes a stronger
hold on persons of full habit like Belle, and now that I've made inquiries I find that it has
been fatal in several instances. We have been so troubled about papa that we thought of nothing
else, and did not realize our danger. There are two cases like Belle's across the way, and
one in this house, and none of them are expected to live."

"Millie," said Roger resolutely, "I won't even entertain the thought of Belle's dying. I'm
going to stay with you every night until she is out of danger. I can doze here in this chair,
and I should be sleepless with anxiety anywhere else. You must let me become a brother now
in very truth."

"No, Roger, we can't permit it. You might catch the fever."

"Millie, I will stay. Do you think I could leave you to meet this trouble alone? I can relieve
you in many ways, and give you and your mother a chance for a little rest. Besides, what is
the fever to me?" he added, with a touch of recklessness which she understood too well.

"Roger," she said gravely, "think what your life and health are to me. If you should fail me
I should despair."

"I won't fail you," he replied, with a little confident nod. "You will always find me on hand
like a good-natured dragon whenever you are in trouble. The first thing to do is to send these
children to the country, and out of this poisoned air," and he sat down at once and wrote to
his mother and Clara Wilson, formerly Clara Bute. Then, true to his word, he watched with Mildred
and Mrs. Jocelyn every night. Frequently his hand upon the brow of the delirious girl would
quiet her when nothing else could, and Mildred often saw his tears falling fast on the unconscious
face.

Mrs. Wilson answered his letter in person. "I couldn't wait a minute," she said. "I went right
over to Mrs. Atwood's and told her that no one could have the children but me, and my husband
says they can stay until you want them back. He is so good to me! Dear little Belle!" she sobbed,
bending over the sufferer, "to think that I once so misjudged you! A better-hearted girl never
breathed. As soon as she's able to be moved you must bring her right to me, and I'll take care
of her till she's her old rosy, beautiful self. No, I'll come for her. I wish I could take
her in my arms and carry her home now."

"She often speaks of you," faltered Mildred. "Indeed she seems to be living all her old life
over again."

The doctor looked graver every day, and at last held out no hope. Late one night they saw that
the crisis was near. Belle was almost inanimate from weakness, and Mrs. Jocelyn, Mildred, and
Roger sat beside her in the large living-room, into which they had moved her bed, so that if
possible she might get a little air--air that was laden with vile, stifling odors. At last
the feeble tossings of the poor sufferer ceased, and she looked around intelligently. Her mother
kissed her, and said soothingly, "Sleep, dear, and you'll soon be better."

She shook her head, and continued to look as if in search of some one, and then whispered,

"Where is papa?"

"You are not strong enough to see him now," her mother replied with pallid lips, while Mildred
put her hand to her side from the intolerable pain in her heart.

Belle lay still a few moments, and they breathed low in their suspense. Her mother kept her
soothing touch upon her brow, while Mildred held her hand. At last two great tears rolled down
the poor girl's face, and she said faintly, "I remember now."

"Oh, Belle, darling, sleep," murmured her mother, "and you will soon get well." Again she slowly
shook her head. "Dear little mother," she whispered, "forgive naughty Belle for all her wild
ways. You were always patient with me. Pray God to forgive me, for I'm going fast. If He's
like you--I won't fear Him."

Mrs. Jocelyn would have fallen on her child if Roger had not caught her and placed her gently
on the lounge, where she lay with dry, tearless eyes and all the yearnings of the mother-heart
in her wan face. Belle's eyes followed her wistfully, then turned to Mildred.

"Good-by, Millie darling, best of sisters. You will have a long--happy life--in spite of all."
Mildred clung to her passionately, but at Belle's faint call for Roger she knelt at the bedside
and looked with streaming eyes on the near approach of death.

"Roger," Belle whispered, "lift me up. I want to die on your breast--you saved me--you KNOW.
Take care Millie--mamma--little ones. Don't wake them. Now--tell me--some--thing--comforting
out of--the Bible."

"'God is not willing that one of His little ones should perish,'" said the young fellow brokenly,
thankful that he could recall the words.

"That's sweet--I'm--one of His--littlest ones. It's--getting--very

I know--what it-means. Good--by. We'll--have--good--times--together--yet."

Then came that absolute stillness which he understood too well. He bowed his head upon the
cold brow of the dead girl, and wept as only strong men weep in their first great sorrow. Mildred
almost forgot her own grief in trying to lead him away and to comfort him, but he clung convulsively
to Belle's lifeless form. At last he broke almost frantically away.

"Roger, Roger," cried Mildred, "where are you going? What are you going to do?"

"I don't know--I must have air or my heart will break; I'll go mad. She's just been murdered,
MURDERED," and he rushed out.

After a little while he returned, and said, "There, Millie, I'm better. I won't give way again,"
and he took her in his arms and let her cry away some of the pain in her heart.

Mrs. Jocelyn still lay upon the sofa, white as marble, and with dry, dilated eyes. She was
far beyond tears.

On the day following Belle's death the Hon.------sat down to a sumptuous dinner in one of the
most fashionable of the Saratoga hotels. A costly bottle of wine added its ruddy hue to his
florid complexion. The waiters were obsequious, the smiling nods of recognition from other
distinguished guests of the house were flattering, and as the different courses were brought
on, the man became the picture of corpulent complacence. His aspect might have changed could
he have looked upon the still form of the once frolicsome, beautiful girl, who had been slain
because he had failed so criminally in fidelity to his oath of office. It would not have been
a pleasant task for him to estimate how much of the money that should have brought cleanliness
and health among the tenements of the poor was being worse than wasted on his own gross personality.

CHAPTER XLIV

THE FINAL CONSOLATIONS OF OPIUM

The glowing September sun had rarely revealed a sadder group than that which still watched
beside poor Belle. At last Roger looked at his watch and said:

"I will now go and see Mr. Wentworth, and bring Mrs. Wheaton."

"Very well, Roger," Mildred replied, "we leave everything in your hands."

"Millie, I can't bear to have Belle placed in one of the crowded city cemeteries. Would you
not be willing to have her sleep in our tree-shadowed graveyard at Forestville? We could keep
flowers on her grave there as long as we lived."

"Oh, Roger, how kind of you to think of that! It would be such a comfort to us!"

"I will take her there myself on the evening boat," he said decisively, and he hastened away
feeling that he must act promptly, for his aching head and limbs led him to fear that Belle's
fever was already in his veins. Mr. Wentworth overflowed with sympathy, and hastened to the
afflicted family with nourishing delicacies. Mrs. Wheaton soon followed, tearful and regretful.

"I didn't know," she said; "I've 'ad a sick child or I'd a been hover before. Not 'earing from
you I thought hall vas veil, and there's the poor dear dead, an' I might 'ave done so much
for 'er."

"No, Mrs. Wheaton, all was done that could be done in this poisoned air. We feared you might
catch the fever if you came, and we knew you would come."

"Hindeed I vould, if you hall 'ad the small-pox. Now I'm going to do heverything," and she
fretted at every effort of the exhausted watchers to help her.

Eoger telegraphed his father to meet him at the boat with the village hearse. The news spread
fast, and the little community was soon deeply stirred with sympathetic interest. Mrs. Jocelyn
was too weak to endure the journey, and Mildred would not leave her. Therefore Mr. Wentworth
held a simple, heartfelt service over the one they all so loved, and Roger departed on his
sad errand. He was eager to get away, and, if the thought of Belle had not been uppermost in
all minds, it would have been seen that he was far from well in spite of his almost desperate
efforts to hide his illness. His father found him on the boat delirious with fever.  The old
man's face was haggard and drawn as he returned to Forestville with his two helpless burdens,
grieving far more for the one that was ill than for the one that was dead. "It's turning out
just as brother Ezra said," he growled. "A man's a fool to mix himself up with other people's
troubles." The interest in the village deepened into strong excitement when it became known
that Roger was ill with the fever that had caused Belle's death, some timid ones fearing that
a pestilence would soon be raging in their midst. But the great majority yielded to their good
impulses, and Mrs. Atwood was overwhelmed with offers of assistance. Several young farmers
to whom Belle had given a heartache a few weeks before volunteered to watch beside her until
the funeral, and there was a deeper ache in their hearts as they sat reverently around the
fair young sleeper. The funeral was a memorable one in Forestville, for the most callous heart
was touched by the pathos of the untimely death.

Meanwhile poor Roger was tossing in fever and muttering constantly of his past life. The name,
however, oftenest on his lips was that of Millie Jocelyn.

Never before in all the troubled past did the poor girl so need his sustaining love as on the
night he left her. Mr, Wentworth spent an hour with the sad mother and daughter after the others
had gone, and then sorrowfully departed, saying that he had an engagement out of town, and
that he would come again immediately on his return. Mrs. Wheaton had gone home, promising that
she would come back in the evening and spend the night with them, for she had a neighbor who
would take care of the children, and so at last the two stricken women were left alone.

Mildred was bathing her mother's head and trying to comfort her when the door opened, and a
haggard, unkempt man stood before them. For a second they looked at him in vague terror, for
he stood in a deep shadow, and then Mrs. Jocelyn cried, "Martin!  Martin!" and tears came to
her relief at last.

He approached slowly and tremblingly. Mildred was about to throw herself into his arms, but
he pushed her away. His manner began to fill them with a vague, horrible dread, for he acted
like a spectre of a man.

"Where are the children?" he asked hoarsely.

"We have sent them to the country. Oh, papa, do be kind and natural--you will kill mamma."

"There is crape on the door-knob," he faltered. "Where's Belle?"

"Oh, oh, oh!" sobbed Mildred, "Papa, papa, have mercy on us. Can't you sustain and help us
at such a time as this?"

"She is dead, then," he whispered, and he sank into a chair as if struck down.

"Yes, she's dead. You were the first one she asked for when she came out of her fever."

"Great God! my punishment is greater than I can bear," he groaned.

"Oh, Martin," pleaded his wife, "come to me," and too weak to rise from her couch she held
out her arms to him.

He looked at her with a remorse and agony in his expression that were indescribable. "No, Nan,"
he said, "I'm not fit for you to touch now. I'm murdering you all," and he went hastily to
his room and locked the door.

They waited, scarcely breathing in their deep apprehension.

In a few moments he came out, and his face was rigid and desperate in its aspect. In spite
of his repelling gesture Mildred clasped him in her arms. The embrace seemed to torture him.
"Let me go!" he cried, breaking away. "I poison the very air I breathe. You both are like angels
of heaven and I--O God! But the end has come," and he rushed out into the gathering darkness.
Mrs. Jocelyn tried to follow him, and fell prostrate with a despairing cry on the floor.

Mildred's first impulse was to restore her mother, without seeking help, in the faint hope
that her father would return, for she had learned what strange alternations of mood opium produces;
but as the sense of his words grew clearer she was overpowered, and trembled so violently that
she was compelled to call to her help a neighbor--a plain, good-hearted woman who lived on
the same floor.  When at last Mrs. Jocelyn revived she murmured piteously:

"Oh, Millie, why didn't you let me die?"

"Mamma," pleaded the girl, "how can you even think of leaving me?"

"Millie, Millie darling, I fear I must. My heart feels as if it were bleeding internally. Millie"--and
she grasped her child's shoulder convulsively, "Millie, look in his room for--for--his pistol."

"Oh, mamma, mamma!"

"Look, look!" said her mother excitedly. "I can't bear the suspense."

Thinking that her mother was a little hysterical, and that compliance would quiet her, Mildred
went to the place where her father always kept his cavalry revolver--the one memento left of
his old heroic army life. IT WAS GONE!

She almost sank to the floor in terror, nor did she dare return to her mother.

"Millie, Millie, quick!" came in a faint cry from the outer room.

The poor girl rushed forward and buried her face in her mother's bosom, sobbing, "Mamma, oh
mamma, live for my sake."

"I knew it, I knew it," said the stricken wife, with a long low cry. "I saw it in his desperate
face. Oh, Martin, Martin, we will die together!"

She clasped Mildred tightly, trembled convulsively a moment, and then her arms fell back, and
she was as still as poor Belle had been.

"Oh, mamma!" Mildred almost shrieked, but she was far beyond recall, and the suffering heart
was at rest.

When the woman returned with the cup of tea she had gone to prepare for Mrs. Jocelyn, she found
the young girl leaning forward unconscious on the bosom of the dead mother.

When she revived it was only to moan and wring her hands in despair. Mrs. Wheaton soon appeared,
and having learned what had happened she threw her apron over her head and rocked back and
forth in her strong sympathetic grief. But her good heart was not long content with tears,
and she took Mildred into her arms and said:

"I vill be a mother to you, and you shall never vant a 'ome vile I 'ave von," and the motherless
girl clung to her in a way that did the kind soul a world of good.

Before the evening was very far advanced a boy brought a note to the door. Mildred seized it
and asked:

"Who gave it to you?"

"I don't know--a man. He pointed to this door, and then he went away very fast."

She tore it open, and read in horror: "My darling wife, dear beyond all words in these my final
despairing moments. My love for you and those left is the only trace of good remaining in my
heart. I die for your sakes. My continued existence would be a curse, for I have lost my manhood.
I am possessed by a devil that I can't control. I cannot ask you to forgive me. I can never
forgive myself. Farewell. After I am gone, brighter days will come to you all. Pity me if you
can, forgive me if you can, and remember me as I was before--"And there the terrible missive ended.

For an hour the girl lay moaning as if in mortal pain, and then the physician who was summoned
gave her a sedative which made her sleep long and heavily. It was quite late in the morning
when she awoke, and the events that had passed first came to her like a horrid dream, and then
grew into terrible reality. But she was not left to meet the emergency alone, for Mrs. Wheaton
and Clara Wilson watched beside her. The latter in her strong sympathy had come to the city
to take Mildred and her mother to the country, and she said to Mrs. Wheaton that she would
now never leave her friend until she was in the breezy farm-house.

After a natural outburst of grief Mildred again proved that Arnold's estimate of her was correct.
She was equal to even this emergency, for she eventually grew quiet and resolute. "I must find
papa," she said.

"Shall I?" Mrs. Wilson asked Mrs. Wheaton significantly.

"Yes, Millie is more hof a soldier than hany hof us."

"Well," continued Mrs. Wilson, "Mrs. Wheaton found this in the morning paper: 'An unknown man
committed suicide on the steps of No. 73----Street. His remains have been taken to the Morgue
for identification.'"

For a few moments Mildred so trembled and looked so crushed that they feared for her exceedingly.
"Poor papa!" she moaned, "he was just insane from remorse and opium. Seventy-three----Street!
Why, that was the house in which we used to live. It was there that papa spent his first happy
years in this city, and it was there he went to die. Oh, how dreadful, how inexpressibly sad
it all is!  What shall we do?"

"Leave hall to me," said Mrs. Wheaton. "Mrs. Wilson, you stay 'ere with the poor dear, an'
I'll hattend to heverything."

Mildred was at last too overpowered to do more than lie on the lounge, breathing in long tremulous
sighs.

Mrs. Wheaton went at once to the Morgue and found that the "unknown man" was indeed Mr. Jocelyn,
and yet he had so changed, and a bullet-hole in his temple had given him such a ghastly appearance,
that it was difficult to realize that he was the handsome, courtly gentleman who had first
brought his beautiful daughter to the old mansion.

Mrs. Wheaton represented to the authorities that he was very poor, that his daughter was an
orphan and overcome with grief, and that she now was the nearest friend of the afflicted girl.
Her statement was accepted, and then with her practical good sense she attended to everything.

During her absence Mildred had sighed, "Oh, I do so wish that Eoger Atwood were here. He gives
me hope and courage when no one else can."

"Millie," said Mrs. Wilson tearfully, "for his sake you must rally and be braver than you have
ever been before. I think his life now depends upon you. He has the fever, and in his delirium
he calls for you constantly."

At first Mrs. Wilson thought the shock of her tidings would be more disastrous to the poor
girl, already so unnerved and exhausted, than all the terrible events which had thus far occurred.
"I have brought him nothing but suffering and misfortune," she cried. "He gave up everything
for us, and now we may cost him his life."

"Millie, he is not dead, and you, if any one, can bring him life."

She had touched the right chord, for the young girl soon became quiet and resolute. "He never
failed me," she said in a low voice, "and I won't fail him."

"That is the right way to feel," said Mrs. Wilson eagerly. "I now think that everything depends
on your courage and fortitude. Mrs. Wheaton and I have planned it all out. We'll go to Forestville
on the evening boat, and take your father's and mother's remains with us."

Mrs. Wheaton learned from the undertaker connected with Mr.  Wentworth's chapel that the clergyman
would not be back until evening, and she told the former to tell their pastor all that had
occurred, and to ask him to keep the circumstances of Mr.  Jocelyn's death as quiet as possible.

The man was discreet and energetic, and they were all so expeditious that the evening saw them
with their sad freight on the way to Forestville, the keys of Mildred's rooms having been left
with the kind woman who had befriended her in the sudden and awful emergency. Mrs. Wheaton
parted from Mildred as if she were her own child, and went mournfully back to her busy, useful
life.  Mr. and Mrs. Jocelyn were buried with a quiet, simple service beside poor Belle, and
sensible Mrs. Wilson soon inspired the good-hearted village people with the purpose to spare
the feelings of the stricken girl in every possible way. Mildred caressed her little brother
and sister with the tenderness of a mother added to her sisterly affection, and she was comforted
to see how much they had already improved in the pure country air. "Oh, Clara," she said, "what
a friend you have been to me! God alone can repay you."

"Millie," Mrs. Wilson earnestly replied, "I owe you a debt I can never pay. I owe you and darling
Belle happiness and prosperity for this life, and my hope of the life to come. My husband is
strong and prosperous, and he says J shall do all that's in my heart for you. Oh, Millie, he
is so good to me, and he cried over Belle like a child. I thought I loved him before, but when
I saw those tears I just worshipped him. He has a man's heart, like Roger. Now, Millie, I'm
going to keep these children as long as you'll let me, and treat them as my own. I feel that
the promise has been given to me that they'll grow up to be a great comfort to us both."

On the evening after the funeral Mildred went to aid in the care of Roger, and Mrs. Atwood
greeted her with all the warmth and tenderness that a daughter would have received. Even Mr.
Atwood drew his sleeve across his eyes as he said, "If you'll help us save our boy, you'll
find that I'm not as crabbed and crooked a stick as I seem."

Mildred was shocked and her heart chilled with fear at the change in Roger, but her hand upon
his brow and her voice did more to quiet him than all the physician's remedies. She became
his almost tireless watcher, and she said hopefully that the bracing autumn winds rustled around
the farmhouse like the wings of ministering angels, and that they would bring life and health
to the fever-stricken man. They all wondered at her endurance, for while she looked so frail
she proved herself so strong. At last the crisis came, as it had in Belle's case, but instead
of waking to die he passed from delirium into a quiet sleep, Mildred holding his hand, and
when he opened his eyes with the clear glance of intelligence, they first looked upon her dear
face. "Millie," he whispered.

She put her fingers upon her lips, smiled, and said, "I won't leave you if you will be good
and do all I say. You never failed me yet, Roger, and you must not now."

"I'll surely get well if you stay with me, Millie," he answered contentedly, and soon he slept
again as quietly as a child.

CHAPTER XLV

MOTHER AND SON

Our story passes rapidly over the events of the ensuing months. In his native mountain air,
and under the impulse of his strong, unbroken constitution, Roger recovered rapidly and steadily.
As soon as he was strong enough he went to the village cemetery, and, leaning his head on Belle's
grave, sobbed until Mildred led him away. For a long time tears would come into his eyes whenever
the names of Mrs. Jocelyn and the young girl he loved so fondly were mentioned. He and Mildred
planted the sacred place thick with roses and spring-flowering bulbs.

Mildred resisted all entreaties to remain in the country, saying that she was a city girl at
heart, and that, with Mr. Wentworth's aid, she could easily earn her livelihood in town, and
do much for Fred and Minnie. Moreover, she felt that she could not be parted from Roger, for
seemingly he had become an inseparable part of her life. The experiences he had shared with
her were developing within him a strong and noble manhood, and he vowed that the young girl
who had known so much sorrow should have all the happiness that he could bring to pass.

When Mrs. Wheaton learned of Mildred's purpose to return to town, she took more commodious
apartments in the old mansion, and set apart a room for the young girl. She also sold most
of her own things and took Mildred's furniture out of storage, so that the place might seem
familiar and homelike to her friend.

When Roger had almost recovered his wonted health, Mrs. Atwood told her husband that he must
go with her to visit his brother in town, for the worthy woman had a project on her mind which
she carried out with characteristic directness and simplicity.

They surprised Mr. and Mrs. Ezra Atwood at breakfast, and partook of the cheer offered them
rather grimly and silently. After the meal was over Roger's mother said, without any circumlocution:

"Brother-in-law, I've come to have a plain, honest talk with you, and if you're a true Atwood
you'll listen to me. I want your wife and my husband to be present. We are nigh of kin, but
we are forgetting ties which the Lord hath ordained. Ezra, I believe you are a good man at
heart, but, like my husband, you set too much store by things that perish in the using. My
boy has taught me that there are better things in this world, and we'll all soon be where we
may look on money as a curse. You have not spoken to my son since last spring, and you've been
cold toward us. I want you to know the truth, and realize what you're doing; then if you go
on in this way, you must settle it with your own conscience;" and with a homely pathos all
her own she told the whole story.

The uncle at first tried to be grim and obstinate, but he soon broke down completely. "I'm
glad you've come," he said huskily. "My conscience hasn't given me any peace for months, and
I wanted to give in, but you know that it's like drawing an eye-tooth for an Atwood to give
in. I'm proud of the boy, and he'll be a blessing to us all. He IS a new departure in the family;
he's got more brains than any of us, and with it all a big, brave heart. He shall marry the
girl if he wants to; and now that her old wretch of a father is dead, no harm need come of
it. But they're young; they must wait until Roger is educated up to the best of 'em.  Well,
now that I've given in, there shall be no half-way work," and he insisted on sending for his
lawyer and making his will in Roger's favor at once.

"I didn't come for any such purpose as this," said Roger's mother, wiping her eyes, while his
father could scarcely conceal his exultation; "but I felt that it was time for us to stop living
like heathen," and after a visit of a very different nature from the one they had feared, the
worthy couple returned to Forestville well content with the results of their expedition.

Roger was jubilant over the news, and he hastened to impart it to Mildred, who was spending
the remaining weeks of her sojourn in the country with her friend Mrs. Wilson.

"Millie," he said, "you shall never want again. My good fortune would be nothing to me unless
I shared it with you."

But she disappointed him by saying, "No, Roger, you must let me live the independent life that
my nature requires," and the only concession that he could obtain from her was a promise to
receive his aid should any emergency require it.

Before Mildred's return a letter from Vinton Arnold was forwarded to her at Forestville, and
it must be admitted that it gave her sad heart something like a thrill of happiness. It was
an eloquent and grateful outpouring of affection, and was full of assurances that she had now
given him a chance for life and happiness.

When she told Roger, he looked very grim for a moment, and then by a visible effort brightened
up and said, "It's all right, Millie." After pacing the room for a few moments with a contracted
brow, he continued, "Millie, you must grant me one request--you must not say anything to Arnold
about me."

"How can I say anything then about myself?" she answered. "I want him to know that I owe everything
to you, and I hope to see the day when you will be the closest of friends."

"Well, that will be a good way on. I must see him first, and learn more about him, and--well,
friends related as Arnold will be to me are not common. I've too much of the old untamed man
in me to go readily into that kind of thing. I will do anything in the world for you, but you
must not expect much more till I have a few gray hairs in my head. Come now, you must humor
me a little in this affair; you can say generally that some friends were kind, and all that,
without much personal reference to me. If you should write as you propose, he might be jealous,
or--worse yet--write me a letter of thanks. It may prevent complications, and will certainly
save me some confoundedly disagreeable experiences. After I've seen him and get more used to
it all, I may feel differently."

"You certainly will, Roger. Your life will gradually become so rich, full, and happy, that
some day you will look back in wonder at your present feelings."

"Life will be full enough if work can make it so; but you must not expect me to outgrow this.
It will strengthen with my years. It's my nature as well as yours. But I foresee how it will
be," he continued despondently; "I shall inevitably be pushed further and further into the
background. In your happy home life--"

Before he could utter another word Mildred was sobbing passionately. "Roger," she cried, "don't
talk that way. I can't bear it. If Vinton is jealous of you, if he fails in manly appreciation
of you, I will never marry him. Strong as my love is for him, such a course would destroy it.
There are certain kinds of weakness that I can't and won't tolerate."

He was surprised and deeply touched, for her manner was usually so quiet and well controlled
that even he was at times tempted to forget how strong and passionate was her nature on occasions
sufficient to awaken it. "There, Millie, I've hurt your feelings," he said remorsefully. "Even
I do not half understand your good, kind heart. Well, you must have patience with me. When
the right time comes my deeds will satisfy you, I think, though my words are now so unpromising.
But please don't deny me--don't say anything about me until I give you permission. What has
occurred between us is sacred to me--it's our affair."

"Very well, if you so wish it; but never even think again that you will ever be less to me
than you are now."

Nevertheless he went sadly away, saying to himself, "She's sincere, Heaven knows, but what
I said will be true in spite of her best intentions."

The next day, after many farewells and an hour spent beside Belle's grave, Roger returned to
the city, far better prepared for life's battle than when he first left his native village.
Two or three days later Mildred followed him, accompanied by Mrs. Wilson, who was determined
to see her safely settled in Mrs. Wheaton's care. Pain and pleasure were almost equally blended
in Mildred's experience as she looked upon the furniture and the one or two pictures that had
escaped their poverty--all of which were so inseparable, in their associations, from those
who were gone, yet never absent long from memory. But the pleasure soon got the better of the
pain, for she did not wish to forget. Mrs. Wheaton's welcome was so hearty as to be almost
overpowering, and when Roger appeared in the evening with a beautiful picture for her walls
she smiled as she once thought she never could smile again. Mr.  Wentworth also called, and
was so kind and sympathetic that the young girl felt that she was far from friendless. "I so
managed it," he whispered in parting, "that there was little public reference to your father's
sad end. Now, Millie, turn your thoughts toward the future. Let Roger make you happy. Believe
me, he's pure gold."

"Just what poor Belle said," she thought sighingly after he had gone. "I must disappoint them
all. But Roger will help me out. He deserves a far better wife than poor shamed, half-crushed
Millie Jocelyn can ever make him, and he shall have her, too, for he is much too young and
strong not to get over all this before many years elapse."

Life soon passed into a peaceful, busy routine. Roger was preparing himself for the junior
class in college under the best of tutors, and his evenings, spent with Mildred, were usually
prefaced by a brisk walk in the frosty air. Then he either read aloud to her or talked of what
was Greek to good-natured Mrs.  Wheaton, who sat knitting in a corner discreetly blind and
deaf.  Unknown to Mildred, he was able to aid her very efficiently, for he taxed Mrs. Wentworth's
ingenuity in the invention of all kinds of delicate fancy work, and that good lady, in the
most business-like manner, gave the orders to Mildred, who thought that, considering the hard
times, she was wonderfully prosperous.

Twice during the winter she went with Roger to Forestville, and she had her little brother
and sister spend the Christmas week with her. It was the brightest experience the little people
ever remembered, although, unnoted by them, Mildred, with sad memories that do not belong to
childhood, often wiped bitter tears from her eyes as she recalled the terrible events of the
preceding holiday season. She became an efficient ally of Mr. Wentworth, and was almost as
glad to aid him, in return for his stanch friendship, as the cause he represented.

She and Vinton Arnold maintained quite a regular correspondence, and the fact occasioned the
young man more than one stormy scene. His mother saw Mildred's letter before he received it,
and the effect of the missive upon him, in spite of his efforts at concealment, were so marked
that she at once surmised the source from which it came. The fact that a few words from Mildred
had done more for the invalid than all the expensive physicians and the many health resorts
they had visited would have led most mothers to query whether the secret of good health had
not been found. Mrs. Arnold, on the contrary, was only angered and rendered more implacable
than ever against the girl. She wrote to her husband, however, to find out what he could about
her family, believing that the knowledge might be useful. Mr. Arnold merely learned the bare
facts that the Jocelyns had become greatly impoverished, that they were living in low tenements,
that the father had become a wretched sot, and, worse than all, that the girl herself had been
in a station-house, although he believed she was proved innocent of the charge against her.
He therefore wrote to his wife that the correspondence must cease at once, since it might involve
the family in disgrace--certainly in disgraceful associations. He also wrote to his son to
desist, under the penalty of his heaviest displeasure. With an expression of horror on her
face, Mrs. Arnold showed this letter to her son. In vain he tried to protest that not one evil
thing against Mildred could be proved; that she was innocence and purity itself; that her misfortunes
and the wrong of others were no reason for desertion on his part. His mother for once lost
her frigid politeness.  "What!" she almost screamed, "do you think we would ever let that horrid
creature bear our name? A woman who has been in a prison cell, and mixed up with the vilest
and lowest people in the city, should not even be named in my presence."

Her son gave her a strange, vindictive look. "You unnatural mother," he muttered between his
teeth, "thus to speak of the girl to whom your son has given his best love, and who is worthy
of it!" and he turned on his heel and left her.

Mrs. Arnold became somewhat hysterical, and wrote home that she believed that Vinton was losing
his mind. She soon learned, however, that she would have no ground for such a charge, although
her son was becoming greatly changed. His politeness to her was scrupulous to a nicety, but
was unrelenting in its icy coldness.  At the same time she knew that he was continuing the
correspondence, and she saw, too, that he was making the most studied and careful effort to
gain in physical strength. One day she began to upbraid him bitterly for his disobedience,
but he interrupted her by saying sternly:

"Madam, there is no child present. I treat you with respect. I also demand respect."

The proud, resolute woman admitted to herself that his management was becoming a difficult
and dubious problem, and at last, discouraged and exasperated by the unwavering steadfastness
of his course and manner, she wrote that they might as well return home, for "he was beyond
her influence."

Therefore, thrilling with glad expectation, Arnold found himself in his native city much sooner
than he had expected. He had no very definite plans. If he could only become sufficiently well
to earn his own livelihood the future would be comparatively clear.  If this were impossible,
his best hope was to wait, secure in Mildred's faith, for the chances of the future, believing
that his father might relent if his mother would not. For this event, however, the outlook
was unpromising. Mr. Arnold was incensed by his wife's fuller account of his son's behavior,
and the proof she had obtained, in spite of his precautions, that he was in frequent correspondence
with Mildred. He had since learned the circumstances of Mr. Jocelyn's wretched death, and that
Mildred was but a sewing-girl, living with an ignorant English woman in a dilapidated old tenement,
and his bitter revolt at the whole affair was quite natural in view of his superficial inquiries
and knowledge. Both he and his wife judged from their proud and worldly standpoint solely,
and therefore on the day following Vinton's arrival they summoned him to a private interview.
At first Mr. Arnold proposed to reason with his son, but the cold, unyielding face soon so
irritated him that he became almost violent in his anger. After he and his mother had nearly
exhausted themselves, Vinton said quietly:

"Now that you have both lectured and threatened me as if I were a boy, I would like to ask
one question. Have I ever disgraced you yet?"

The husband and wife looked at each other, and were not a little perplexed how to meet this
passive resistance. In the same low, incisive tones, Vinton continued, "If you propose to turn
me into the streets for loving Miss Jocelyn, do so at once, for I do love her, and I shall
ever love her."

"She shall not touch a penny of our money," said Mrs. Arnold, with an implacable look.

"With me," replied her son, with the same old vindictive glance, "it is not a question of pennies,
but of life and death. I feel toward Miss Jocelyn as I suppose my father once felt toward you,
although what heart you had to win I cannot understand from your manner toward me. I have seen
considerable of society, but have never met a woman who could compare with Mildred Jocelyn
in all that constitutes a true lady. I shall not waste any words concerning the virtues of
her heart upon such unsympathetic listeners, but I am at least a man in years, and have the
right to love her."

"Oh, certainly," said Mrs. Arnold angrily, "there is no law which can prevent your disgracing
yourself and us."

"Nor is there any law or gospel, madam, for your unnatural, unsympathetic course toward your
own flesh and blood. Good-evening."

"Now you see how strange and infatuated he has become," she said to her husband after her son's
departure; but the old merchant shook his head in trouble and perplexity.

"We have been too hard upon him, I fear," he said.

"If you weaken in this matter, I shall not," she answered decisively. "If he gives way to this
folly, both I and my children will disown all kith and kin."

"Well, well," he replied impatiently, "it will have to be so, I suppose; but nevertheless I
believe we have been too hard with him."

CHAPTER XLVI

A FATAL ERROR

The next morning Arnold started out to visit the one rarely absent from his thoughts. It was
a lovely day in the latter part of June, and his heart grew glad and hopeful in spite of the
discouraging conditions of his lot. All the world could not prevent his loving Mildred, or
destroy her faith, and at some time and in some way they would attain their happiness. These
hopes were like the bright summer sun, and he walked with a firmer and more elastic tread than
he had ever known before.

When he reached the haggard old mansion his heart misgave him. "Can it be reality," he asked
himself, "that she has been living in places like this?" and the half-defined fear entered
his mind that she might have changed somewhat with her fortunes, and might no longer be in
appearance the delicate, refined, beautiful girl that he had left so long since. But his impatient
heart gave him no time for such imaginings, and he hastened to gratify his intense desire to
look upon her face.

In response to a low knock Mildred opened the door, and found herself in the arms of her lover.
Then he held her off and looked at her earnestly. "Oh, Millie!" he exclaimed, "you have only
grown more beautiful, more womanly in these long, weary years. Your face is the reflex of the
letters on which I have lived, and which gave me the power to live."

Then in the excess of his joy he sank into a chair, and, putting his hand upon his heart, looked
very pale. She sprang to his side in alarm. "Don't worry, Millie," he said, taking her hand.
"It's passing. I don't have them very often now. I'm much better, thanks to you. Happiness
rarely kills."

It was well that Mrs. Wheaton and the children were out. This scene would have been a great
shock to the good woman, for she was Roger's ally, heart and soul, and did not even know of
Arnold's existence. Since Arnold and Mildred were so fortunate as to be alone, they talked
frankly over their old happy days, and as far as she could without breaking her promise to
Roger, Mildred spoke of the deep sorrows which had almost overwhelmed her during his absence.

"How my heart aches for you!" Arnold said. "I never realized before what sad experiences you
have passed through. The part which I can't endure is that I have been of no help to you. On
the contrary, you reached out this little hand and saved me.  Everything has been just the
opposite of what it ought to have been, and even now in these surroundings you are like a diamond
in a dust-heap. Oh, how different it would all be if I had my way!" and he in turn told her
quite frankly how he was situated.

"Vinton," she said earnestly, "you must do all in your power to grow strong and make a place
for yourself in the world. As you say, I cannot punish you for the pride and hostility of your
parents; I don't think of them, and I could never take any favors at their hands. As a man
you have the right to choose for yourself, and can do so while maintaining the utmost courtesy
and respect toward your family. I don't fear poverty--I'm used to it.  The thing for you to
do is to find some honest work that won't tax you too greatly, and gain strength in its performance."

"Oh, Millie, how strong and true you are! I will take your advice in this as in all respects.
But we shall have to wait a long time, I fear. I have so little knowledge of business, and
I think my father, influenced by my mother, will thwart rather than help me."

"Very well, I can wait," she answered smilingly. "Indeed I'd rather wait."

Now that her happiness seemed assured, however, she sighed over Roger so often and remorsefully
that at last Arnold said,

"You have some trouble on your mind, Millie?"

"You must not expect to find me a light-hearted girl any more," she replied evasively.

"Well," he said, as he clasped her closely in farewell, "my every waking thought shall now
be how best to banish sighs and bring smiles."

That evening, while they were out for a walk, Mildred said to Roger, with a little tremor in
her voice, "He's come."

He gave her a swift look, and then he turned as quickly away, but his arm grew rigid under
her hand.

"Don't fail me, Roger," she pleaded.

"It's unexpected--I wasn't prepared," he said, in a low tone, and then he was silent. He felt
her hand trembling so greatly that he soon mastered himself for her sake. "It's all right,
Millie," he said heartily. "Be just as happy as you can."

"How can I be truly happy when you are not?" she sighed.

"Bless your kind heart! do you think I am going to stand off and lower at your happiness like
a black cloud? Do you think I'm going to droop, look forlorn and deserted, and heave great
sighs in dark corners? By all the powers! if I were capable of such meanness toward you, I'd
whip myself worse than I did that fellow Bissel."

"Do you think I'll feel for you any the less because you are so good and brave about it?"

"Oh, confound it!" he said impatiently, "you must not feel too much. Spoiling your happiness
won't do me any good; it would just make me savage."

She leaned her head for a second against his shoulder and said, "I'm not a bit afraid of you,
Roger."

"There, Millie," he said quietly, "you always get the better of the old Satan in me, but I
sometimes feel as if I could more easily tame a whole menagerie than my own nature. Come to
think of it, it's all turning out for the best. To-morrow I go home on quite a long vacation.
Father isn't very well this summer, and I'm to take charge of the harvest for him."

"Isn't this plan a little sudden?" she asked.

"Not more so than your news," he replied grimly.

"Are you not willing to meet him yet?"

"Not quite. After a few weeks in the fields I shall come back with the stoicism and appearance
of a wild Indian. Come, Millie, I said I wouldn't fail you, nor shall I. Leave it all to me.
I will explain to Mrs. Wheaton to-night, and to our other friends when the right time comes,
and I will make it appear all right to them. If I justify you, they should have nothing to
say. And now you have nothing to do but accept your happiness and make the most of it. I still
request that you do not speak of me to Arnold except in a casual way. When we meet you can
introduce me simply as a friend who was kind during your troubles. I'll soon know after we
meet whether we can get on together, and if we can't it will save complications for you as
well as myself. You must let me serve you in my own way, and I think my judgment will be better
than yours in this matter."

She was silent for a few moments, and by the light of a lamp he saw that her eyes were full
of tears. "Roger," she said softly after a while, "I sometimes think that my affection for
you is greater than my love for Vinton, but it is so different. It seems almost like my religion.
You are a refuge for me, no matter what happens."

"Thank you, Millie, but I don't deserve such honor."

Mrs. Wheaton could not be brought to look at the situation as Roger did, and she accepted the
fact of Vinton Arnold with but a grim acquiescence, which was not mollified by the young man's
manner toward her. While meaning to be very kind and polite, he was unconsciously patronizing.
She belonged to a class with which he had never had much to do, and in his secret soul he chafed
at her presence and her relations to Mildred. While in the abstract he might say that Mildred's
associations made no difference to him, he could not in fact overcome his lifelong prejudices,
and Mildred's surroundings were not at all to his taste. Luxury and the absence of all that
was rude and coarse had become essential to him, and Mrs. Wheaton's cockney English and homely
life often gave him cold chills.

Mildred in one respect disappointed him also, for she would take no aid from him, and would
in no way deviate from her retired, independent life. "Even if my feelings and principles were
not involved," she said, "good taste requires that I conform to my circumstances."

She would take such quiet walks with him as his strength permitted, but would visit no places
of public resort. In view of his family's hostility to his course, Arnold did not so much regret
this, and so it came about that they spent many of their evenings on the platform over the
roof, with the old German astronomer, star-gazing and oblivious, not far away.

While Mildred maintained her loyalty to her old friends, and her resolute plainness and simplicity
of life, she considerately recognized that it was all so foreign to her lover's previous experience
that she could not expect him to feel as she did.  Moreover, his presence renewed her old love
for the refined and beautiful, and her heart, that had been so sad and preoccupied, awoke at
last to the truth that she was out of her sphere--an exile far from the world her nature craved.
Arnold seemed an inseparable part of that old world of beauty and elegance. His every act and
word brought it back, and it caused a deepening regret that he was compelled to seek her in
her present situation; therefore she also began to share his ill-concealed wish that she might
soon escape. Honestly as she loved Mrs. Wheaton, and would love her for all her kindness, the
good woman's talk and ways often jarred discordantly on her nerves. Arnold soon discovered
this fact, and it made him very impatient over the prospect of life long continued under its
present aspects. He was conscious of Mrs. Wheaton's latent hostility, and he had not the tact
to conciliate her nor indeed did he make very great effort to do so.  Mildred was very sorry
for this, but did not blame him greatly, for she knew her plain old friend could never be to
him what she was to those who had learned her goodness and worth in emergencies that had levelled
all external differences.

But in spite of the ingredients brought by these facts and the memories of the past, Mildred
found the cup of happiness which Arnold pressed to her lips sweet indeed. She had been exceedingly
sorrowful for a long time, and it is contrary to nature that the young should cling to sorrow,
however true and constant they may be. Her love was a part of her happy girlhood, and now it
seemed to have the power to bring back some of her former girlish lightness of heart. The prospects
offered by Arnold certainly had little to do with the returning tide of gladness which seemed
bearing her from the dark, rugged shores on which she had been nearly wrecked. It was a buoyancy
inherent within the love she cherished, and her joy was so sweet, so profound, that she shut
her eyes to the future and thought, "For a few days, for a few weeks, we'll just drink deeply
at this life-giving fountain. After our long separation it will do us both more good than anything
else."

She had said to Arnold that she was willing to wait, that she would rather wait, but she soon
began to feel differently. Arnold infused into her nature some of his own dreamy, enervated
spirit, and sometimes he would describe to her an imaginary home so exactly to her taste that
she would sigh deeply; and one day she remonstrated, "Don't tantalize me with any more such
exquisite mirages. Let us rather think of the best and quickest way to secure a real home,
and let us be content in it, however humble it must be." But Arnold was far better able to
construct an imaginary palace than an ordinary cottage. Although he seemed gaining steadily
under the impulse of his happiness, she often trembled to see how frail he was in body and
how untrained and impracticable in mind. He was essentially the product of wealth, luxury,
and seclusion, and while his intentions might be the best, she was sometimes compelled to doubt
his ability to make much headway in the practical, indifferent world. Instead of being discouraged,
she only thought, "No one can ever doubt the genuineness of my love. Roger is rich already,
and he is certain to become eminent, and yet my love is more than all the world to me, and
I so long for a little nook of a home that I could call all my own, that I would be willing
to marry Vinton at once and support him myself if his health required it. I don't think I can
be like other girls. I shall never get over my pride, but I haven't a particle of ambition.
The world at large is nothing to me, and instead of wishing to shine in it, I am best pleased
to escape its notice altogether."

Arnold's family were as deeply perplexed as they were incensed at his course. He would not
leave the city for any fashionable resort, and they well knew the reason. His father and mother
hesitated in their departure, not knowing what "folly," as they termed it, he might be guilty
of in their absence. They felt that they must bring the matter to some issue, and yet how to
do so puzzled them greatly, for, as he had said, he had done nothing as yet to disgrace them,
and his bearing toward them was as irreproachable as it was cold and dignified.

At last, unknown to them, an elder brother undertook to solve the problem. He was a thorough
man of the world, and his scrupulous compliance with the requirements of fashionable society
led his mother to regard him as a model of propriety. In his private, hidden life he was as
unscrupulous as the ultra fashionable often are.

"Vinton," he said one day, "what a fool you are making of yourself in this affair! You have
been brought up like a girl, and you are more simple and innocent than they average. I've seen
your charmer, and I admit that she is a fine creature. As far as looks go, you show as much
judgment as any man in town, but there your wits desert you. Girls in her position are not
nice as to terms when they can greatly better themselves. You have money enough to lodge her
like a princess compared with her present condition.  Verbum sat sapienti."

Vinton replied indignantly that he knew nothing about Mildred.

"Oh, I know all about women," was the confident reply; "have forgotten more than you ever knew."

Nevertheless this thought, like an evil seed, sprang up into a speedy but not rank growth.
Arnold saw that his family would regard his marriage as an outrage which they would resent
in every possible way, and that their hostility now was but an ill-concealed, smouldering fire.
The relation to him would not be what his brother suggested, but as sacred and binding as marriage.
His unhealthful reading, his long years abroad, and the radical weakness of his nature prepared
him to accept this solution as the easiest and best that circumstances permitted of. He justly
doubted whether he would soon, if ever, gain the power of being independent. He knew nothing
of business, and hated its turmoil and distractions, and while for Mildred's sake he would
attempt anything and suffer anything, he had all the unconquerable shrinking from a manful
push out into the world which a timid man feels at the prospect of a battle. He had been systematically
trained into weakness, and he felt that men, when he came to compete with them, would discover
and take advantage of his defects. His cold, haughty reticence was but disguised timidity.
In Mildred's presence he ever showed the best side of his nature, and his lonely, repressed
life had always touched the tenderest chords of her heart. If their love had been smiled upon
from the first, how different would have been his fate! She would have tenderly developed his
dwarfed, crushed manhood, and the result would have been happiness for them both.

"Millie," said Arnold, one starlight night, "do you care very much for the world's opinions?"
They were sitting on the platform above the old mansion. The German astronomer, after grumbling
awhile at an obscuring haze, had gone downstairs in disgust, and left the lovers to themselves.

"No, Vinton, I never cared much for the world at any time, and now I have an almost morbid
impulse to shrink from it altogether. I'm like my dear mamma. Home was her world. Poor, dear
mamma!" and she buried her face on his shoulder and shed tears that his presence robbed of
much of their bitterness.

"I not only do not care for the world," he said impetuously, "but I hate it. I've been dragged
through it, and have ever found it a desert, stony place. My heart just aches for the sweet
quiet and seclusion of such a home as you could make, Millie. As it is, I have no home. A hollow
iceberg could not be more cold and joyless than my present abode. Neither have you a home.
It is only in stolen moments like these, liable to interruption, that we can speak of what
is in our hearts;" and then, prompted by his feelings, longings, and the apparently friendless
condition of the girl whose head rested so trustingly on his breast, he broached the scheme
of life that had taken possession of his imagination.

At first, in her faith and innocence she scarcely understood him, but suddenly she raised her
head, and looked at him with startled eyes. "What!" she said, in trembling alarm, "no marriage?
Mr. Wentworth and Roger Atwood not present?"

"No minister could make our union more sacred than it would be to me," he faltered, "and as
soon as my obdurate parents--"

She sprang to her feet, and exclaimed passionately, "I'd rather die ten thousand deaths than
bring a blush of shame to Roger Atwood's face." Then she sank into her chair in an uncontrollable
outburst of grief. He pleaded with her, but she was deaf; he tried to caress her, but although
half unconscious from her agony, she repulsed him. "Oh, oh," she moaned, "is this the sole
reward of my fidelity?"

"Millie, Millie," he entreated, "you will kill me if you cannot control yourself. I will do
anything you say--submit to any terms. Oh, pity me, or I shall die."

"Leave me," she said faintly.

"Never," he cried; "I'd sooner cast myself down from this height."

By visible and painful effort she at last grew calm enough to say firmly:

"Mr. Arnold, I do pity you. Even at this moment I will try to do you justice. My heart seems
broken, and yet, I fear you will suffer more than I. My own womanhood would make your words
the sufficient cause for our final separation, and had I not a friend in the world we could
never meet again. But I have a friend, a brother to whom I owe more than life, and whom I love
better than life. He would have made me rich if I would have let him, but I loved you too well.
Not for my hope of heaven would I make him blush for me. I would have married you and lived
in a single room in a tenement. I would have supported you with my own hands. The weaknesses
for which you were not to blame drew my heart toward you, but you have shown a defect in your
character to-night which creates an impassable gulf between us. In view of the wrong done you
by others I forgive you--I shall pray God to forgive you--but we have fatally misunderstood
each other. If you have any manhood at all, if you have the ordinary instincts of a gentleman,
you will respect the commands of an orphan girl, and leave me, never to approach me again."

Speechless, almost paralyzed in his despair, he tottered to the steps and disappeared.

CHAPTER XLVII

LIGHT AT EVENTIDE

AS Mrs. Wheaton crossed the hallway from a brief call on a neighbor, Vinton Arnold passed her.
She noted by the light of the lamp in her hand that his pallor was ghostlike, and she asked
quickly:

"Vere is Miss Jocelyn?"

He paid no more heed to her than if he were a shadow of a man, and went by her with wavering,
uncertain steps, without a word. In sudden alarm she hastened to the roof, and found Mildred
kneeling by her chair, weeping and almost speechless from grief. She took the girl in her arms,
and said excitedly, "Vat did he say to you?"

"Oh," sobbed Mildred, "my heart is broken at last. I feel as mamma did when she said her heart
was bleeding away. Mrs. Wheaton, I shall stay with you now as long as I live, and it seems
as if it wouldn't be very long. Never speak of him again--never speak of it to a living soul.
He asked that which would banish you and Roger--dear, brave, patient Roger--from my side forever,
and I will never see his face again. Oh, oh, I wish I could die!"

"I'm a plain voman," Mrs. Wheaton said grimly, "but I took the measure of 'im soon as I clapped
my heyes on 'im; but, Millie, me darlin', you couldn't be so cruel as to break hour 'earts
by dying for sich a man. You vould make the vorld black for us hall, yer know. Come, dear,
come vith me. I'll take care hof yer. I'm not fine like 'im that's gone, thank the Lord, but
I'll never ax ye to do haught that Mr. Ventvorth vouldn't bless," and she half supported the
exhausted, trembling girl to her room, and there was tender and tireless in her ministrations.
In the early dawn, when at last Mildred slept for an hour or two, she wrote, in a half-eligible
scrawl, to Roger, "Come back. Millie wants you."

His presence in response was prompt indeed. On the second morning after the events described,
Mildred sat in her chair leaning back with closed eyes. Mrs. Wheaton was away at work, and
her eldest daughter was watching the little brood of children on the sidewalk. A decided knock
at the door caused the young girl to start up with apprehension. She was so nervously prostrated
that she trembled like a leaf. At last she summoned courage and opened the door slightly, and
when she saw Roger's sun-burned, honest face she welcomed him as if he were a brother indeed.

He placed her gently in her chair again, and said, with a keen look into her eyes, "How is
this, Millie? I left you happy and even blooming, and now you appear more pale and broken than
ever before. You look as if you had been seriously ill. Oh, Millie, that couldn't be, and you
not let me know," and he clasped her hand tightly as he spoke.

She buried her burning face on his shoulder, and said, in a low, constrained tone, "Roger,
I've told Mr. Arnold this much about you--I said I'd die ten thousand deaths rather than cause
you to blush for me."

He started as if he had been shot. "Great God!" he exclaimed, "and did he ask you aught that
would make you blush?"

Bitter tears were Mildred's only answer.

The young man's passion for a few moments was terrible, but Mildred's pallid face soon calmed
him. "You could not harm him," she said sadly. "What is one blow more to a man who is in torture?
I pity him from the depths of my soul, and you must promise me to let him alone. Never for
a moment did I forget that you were my brother."

In strong revulsion of feeling he bent one knee at her side and pleaded, "Oh, Millie, give
me the right to protect you. I'll wait for you till I'm gray. I'll take what love you can give
me. I'll be devotion itself."

"Don't, Roger," she said wearily. "I love you too well to listen. Such words only wound me.
Oh, Roger, be patient with me. You don't understand, you never will understand. I do give you
the right to protect me; but don't talk that way again. I just long for rest and peace. Roger,
my friend, my brother," she said, lifting her eyes appealingly to his, and giving him both
of her hands, "don't you see? I can give you everything in this way, but in the way you speak
of--nothing. My heart is as dead as poor Belle's."

"Your wish shall be my law," he said gently.

"And you'll not harm Mr. Arnold?"

"Not if it will hurt you."

"I never wish to see or hear from him again, and you'll never have cause to fear any one else."

"Millie," he said sadly, "it is for you I fear most. You. look so sad, pale, and broken-hearted.
There isn't a sacrifice I wouldn't make for you. Millie, you won't let this thing crush you?
It would destroy me if you did. We will resume our old quiet life, and you shall have rest
of body and soul;" and he kept his word so well that, before many months passed, her mind regained
sufficient tone and strength to enable her to engage in the simple duties of life with something
like zest. He talked to her about many of his studies, he searched the stores for the books
which he thought would be to her taste, and took her to see every beautiful work of art on
exhibition. In spite of her poverty, he daily made her life richer and fuller of all that he
knew to be congenial to her nature. While she gained in serenity and in capability for quiet
enjoyment, he was positively happy, for he believed that before many years passed she would
be ready to spend the rest of life at his side. He meantime was pursuing his studies with a
vigor and success that inspired his friends with the most sanguine hopes.

Vinton Arnold, on that terrible night when his false dream of life was shattered, went through
the streets as oppressed with shame and despair as if he were a lost spirit. As he was slowly
and weakly climbing the stairs his father called him to the sitting-room, where he and his
wife were in consultation, feeling that matters must be brought to some kind of a settlement,
Mrs. Arnold urging extreme measures, and her husband bent on some kind of compromise. As his
son entered, the old gentleman started up, exclaiming:

"Good God, my boy, what is the matter?"

"He's going to have one of his bad turns," said his mother, rising hastily.

"Hush, both of you," he commanded sternly, and he sat down near the door. Fixing a look of
concentrated hatred on his mother, he said slowly, "Madam, you are not willing that I should
marry Mildred Jocelyn."

"And with very good reason," she replied, a little confused by his manner.

"Well, let it rejoice such heart as you have--I shall never marry her."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean never to speak to you again after this brief interview. I am a lost man--lost beyond
hope, and you are the cause. If you had had a mother's heart my father would not have been
so obdurate. Since you would not let me marry her, I was tempted by my love and the horrible
life I lead in this house to offer her a relation which would have been marriage to me, but
from which her proud, pure spirit, recoiled, as I recoil from you, and I shall never see her
face again in this world or in any world. Your work is finished. You need not scheme or threaten
any more. While she is as good as an angel of heaven, she is as proud as you are, and you have
murdered my hope--my soul. Father, I have but one request to make to you. Give me money enough
to live anywhere except under this roof. No, no more words to-night, unless you would have
me die in your presence with curses on my lips. I have reached the utmost limit;" and he abruptly
left the room.

Mrs. Arnold took refuge in hysterics, and her husband rang violently for her maid, and then
locked himself up in his library, where he walked the floor for many an hour. The next morning
he tried to make overtures to his son, but he found the young man deaf and stony in his despair.
"It's too late," was all that he would say.

"Oh, let him alone," protested his wife irritably, as her husband came down looking sorely
troubled; "Vinton will indulge in high tragedy for a few months, and then settle down to sensible
life," and in the hope of this solution the old merchant went gloomily to his business.

That day Vinton Arnold left his home, and it was years before he returned.

Two years or more passed away in quiet, toilsome days for Mildred. She had gained serenity,
and apparently had accepted her lot without repining. Indeed, thanks to Roger's unfaltering
devotion, it was not a monotonous or a sad one. He let her heart rest, hoping, trusting that
some day it would wake from its sleep. In compliance with her wish he was in semblance a brother,
and his attentions were so quiet and frank, his manner toward her so restful, that even she
half believed at times that his regard for her was passing into the quiet and equable glow
of fraternal love.  Such coveted illusions could not be long maintained, however, for occasionally
when he was off his guard she would find him looking at her in a way that revealed how much
he repressed. She shed many bitter tears over what she termed his "obstinate love," but an
almost morbid conviction had gained possession of her mind that unless she could return his
affection in kind and degree she ought not to marry him.

At last she began to grow a little restless under her rather aimless life, and one day she
said to her pastor, Mr. Wentworth, "I want a career--isn't that what you call it? I'm tired
of being a sewing-woman, and soon I shall be a wrinkled spinster. Isn't there something retired
and quiet which a girl with no more brains and knowledge than I have can do?"

"Yes," he said gravely; "make a home for Roger."

She shook her head. "That is the only thing I can't do for him," she replied very sadly. "God
only knows how truly I love him. I could give him my life, but not the heart of a wife. I have
lost everything except truth to my womanly nature. I must keep that. Moreover, I'm too good
a friend of Roger's to marry him. He deserves the strong first love of a noble woman, and it
will come to him some day. Do you think I could stand before you and God's altar and promise
what is impossible? No, Mr. Wentworth, Roger has a strength and force of character which will
carry him past all this, and when once he sees I have found a calling to which I can devote
all my energies, he will gradually become reconciled to the truth, and finally accept a richer
happiness than I could ever bring him."

"You are an odd girl, Mildred, but perhaps you are right. I've learned to have great faith
in you. Well, I know of a career which possibly may suit you. It would open an almost limitless
field of usefulness," and he told her of the Training School for Nurses in connection with
Bellevue Hospital.

The proposition took Mildred's fancy greatly, and it was arranged that they should visit the
institution on the following afternoon. Roger sighed when he heard of the project, but only
remarked patiently, "Anything you wish, Millie."

"Dear old fellow," she thought; "he doesn't know I'm thinking of him more than myself."

Mildred made her friend Clara Wilson and her brother and sister a long visit the following
summer, and in the fall entered on her duties, her zest greatly increased by the prospect of
being able before very long to earn enough to give Fred and Minnie a good education. The first
year of her training passed uneventfully away, she bringing to her tasks genuine sympathy for
suffering, and unusual aptness and ability. Her own sorrowful experience made her tender toward
the unfortunate ones for whom she cared, and her words and manner brought balm and healing
to many sad hearts that were far beyond the skill of the hospital surgeons.

During the first half of the second year, in accordance with the custom of the School, she
responded to calls from wealthy families wherein there were cases of such serious illness as
to require the services of a trained nurse, and in each instance she so won the confidence
of the attending physician and the affection of the family as to make them personal friends.
Her beautiful face often attracted to her not a little attention, but she was found to be as
unapproachable as a Sister of Charity. Roger patiently waited, and filled the long months with
unremitting toil.

One evening toward the latter part of the first six months of her outside work, Mildred returned
from nursing a patient back to health. She found the lady in charge of the institution in much
tribulation. "Here is Mrs. Sheppard, from one of the most influential families on Fifth Avenue,
offering anything for a nurse. Her brother is dying with consumption, she says. He has a valet
in attendance, but the physician in charge says he needs a trained nurse, for he wants constant
watching. He is liable to die at any moment. We haven't a nurse unemployed. Do you feel too
tired to go?"

"Oh, no," said Mildred. "My patient improved so much that for the last week I've almost been
resting."

"And you think you can go?"

"Certainly."

"I'll tell Mrs. Sheppard then to send for you in a couple of hours. That will give you time
to get ready."

Two hours later Mildred was driven rapidly by a coach-man in livery to a mansion on Fifth Avenue,
and she was speedily ushered into the room where the patient lay. He was sleeping at the time,
with curtains drawn and his face turned away. Mildred only glanced at him sufficiently to see
that he was very much emaciated. A middle-aged lady who introduced herself as Mrs. Sheppard
received her, saying, "I'm so glad you are here, for I am overcome with fatigue. Last night
he was very restless and ill, and would have no one near him except myself. His valet is in
that room just across the hall, and will come at the slightest summons. Now while my brother
is sleeping I will rest at once. My room is here, opening into this. Call me if there is need,
and don't mind if he talks strangely. Your room is there, just beyond this one," and with a
few directions, given with the air of extreme weariness, she passed to her own apartment, and
was soon sleeping soundly.

Mildred sat down in the dim room where the light fell upon her pure, sweet profile, which was
made a little more distinct by the flickering of the cannel-coal fire, and began one of the
quiet watches to which she was becoming so accustomed. Her thoughts were very painful at first,
for they seemed strangely inclined to dwell on Vinton Arnold. From the time they parted she
had heard nothing of him, and since the brief explanation that she had been compelled to give
to Roger, his name had not passed her lips. He had been worse than dead to her, and she wondered
if he were dead.  She had never cherished any vindictive feelings toward him, and even now
her eyes filled with tears of commiseration for his wronged and wretched life. Then by a conscious
effort she turned her thoughts to the friend who had never failed her. "Dear Roger," she murmured,
"he didn't appear well the last time I saw him. He is beginning to look worn and thin. I know
he is studying too hard. Oh, I wish my heart were not so perverse, for he needs some one to
take care of him. He can't change; he doesn't get over it as I hoped he would," and her eyes,
bent on the fire, grew dreamy and wistful.

Unknown to herself, she was watched by one who scarcely dared to breathe lest what seemed a
vision should vanish. The dying man was Vinton Arnold. His married sister, overcome by weariness
and the stupor of sleep, had inadvertently forgotten to mention his name, and Mildred was under
the impression that the name of her patient was Sheppard. She had never been within the Arnold
mansion, nor was she specially familiar with its exterior. Entering it hastily on a stormy
night, she had not received the faintest suggestion that it was the home to which she and her
mother had once dreamed she might be welcomed.

When at last Arnold had awakened, he saw dimly, sitting by the fire, an unfamiliar form, which
nevertheless suggested the one never absent from his thoughts. Noiselessly he pushed the lace
curtain aside, and to his unspeakable wonder his eyes seemed to rest on Mildred Jocelyn. "She
is dead," he first thought, "and it is her spirit. Or can it be that my reason is leaving me
utterly, and the visions of my tortured mind are becoming more real than material things? Oh,
see," he murmured, "there are tears in her eyes. I could almost imagine that a good angel had
taken her guise and was weeping over one so lost and wrecked as I am. Now her lips move--she
is speaking softly to herself. Great God! can it be real? Or is it that my end is near, and
long-delayed mercy gives me this sweet vision before I die?"

His sombre and half-superstitious conjectures were almost dispelled by a little characteristic
act on Mildred's part--an act that contained a suggestion of hope for Roger. In awakening the
stronger traits of manhood in the latter she had also evoked an appreciation of beauty and
a growing love for it. Mildred was human enough not to regret that this developing sense should
find its fullest gratification in herself. Though so determined to become a wrinkled spinster,
she found a secret and increasing pleasure in the admiring glances that dwelt upon her face
and dainty figure, and this fact might have contained for him, had he known it, a pleasing
hint. It must be confessed that she no longer wished to go into his presence without adding
a little grace to her usually plain attire; and now that she was thinking so deeply of him
she involuntarily raised her hand to adjust her coquettish nurse's cap, which by some feminine
magic all her own she ever contrived to make a becoming head-dress rather than a badge of office.

Even to Vinton Arnold's perturbed and disordered mind the act was so essentially feminine and
natural, so remote from ghostly weirdness, that he raised himself on his elbow and exclaimed,
"Millie, Millie Jocelyn!"

"Ah," cried Mildred starting from her chair and looking fearfully toward the half-closed door
of Mrs. Sheppard's room. In her turn her heart beat quickly, with the sudden superstitious
fear which the strongest of us cannot control when we seem close to the boundaries of the unseen
world. "It was HIS voice," she murmured.

"Millie, oh, Millie, are you real, or is it a dream?"

She took two or three steps toward the bed, stopped, and covered her face with her hands.

"Oh, speak!" he cried in agony. "I do not know whether I am dreaming or awake, or whether I
now see as if before me the one ever in my thoughts. You hide your face from me," he groaned,
sinking back despairingly. "You have come for a brief moment to show me that I can never look
upon your face again."

Mildred thought swiftly. Her first impulse was to depart at once, and then her womanly pity
and sense of duty gained the mastery. Vinton Arnold was now a dying man, and she but a trained
nurse. Perhaps God's hand was in their strange and unexpected meeting, and it was His will
that the threads of two lives that had been bound so closely should not be severed in fatal
evil. Should she thwart His mercy?

"Mr. Arnold," she said, in an agitated voice, "this is a strange and undreamed-of meeting.
Let me quiet your mind, however, by telling you how simple and matter-of-fact are the causes
which led to it. I am now a professional nurse from the Training School connected with Bellevue
Hospital, and your sister, having sent to the School for assistance, obtained my services as
she might those of any of my associates. In view--perhaps--it would be best for one of them
to take my place."

He was strongly moved, and listened panting and trembling in his weakness. "Millie," at last
he faltered, "is there any God at all? Is there any kind or merciful spirit in nature? If so,
you have been sent to me, for I am dying of remorse. Since you bade me leave you I have suffered
tortures, day and night, that I cannot describe. I have often been at the point of taking my
own life, but something held me back. Can it be that it was for this hour?  Mildred, I am dying.
The end of a most unhappy life is very near.  Is there no mercy in your faith--no mercy in
your strong, pure womanly heart?"

"Vinton," she said gently, "I believe you are right. God has sent me to you. I will not leave
you until it is best."

"Millie, Millie," he pleaded, "forgive me. I cannot believe in God's forgiveness until you
forgive me."

"I forgave you from the first, Vinton, because I knew there was no cold-blooded evil in your
mind, and I have long felt that you were more sinned against than sinning. If I stay I must
impose one condition--there must be no words concerning the past. That is gone forever."

"I know it, Mildred. I killed your love with my own hand, but the blow was more fatal to me
than to you."

"Can you not rally and live?" she asked tearfully.

"No," he said, with a deep breath. "Moreover, I have no wish to live. The dark shadow of my
life will soon fall on you no more, but the hope that I may breathe my last with you near brings
a deep content and peace. Does any one yet suspect who you are?"

"No. I fear Mrs. Arnold will not think it best."

"I have never spoken to Mrs. Arnold since that awful night, and if she interferes now I will
curse her with my last breath. This is my one hope--my one gleam of light in the life she has
cursed--"

"Hush, oh hush! Unless my presence brings quietness I cannot stay," for at the name of his
mother he became dangerously agitated. "I will tell Mrs. Sheppard in the morning, and I think
she will arrange it so that I can do all in my power for you."

"No," he replied, after a little thought, "I will tell her. She is unlike my mother and other
sisters, and has a good heart. She has taken entire charge of me, but I was in such a hell
of suffering at the thought of dying without one word from you that I was almost a maniac.
I will be quiet now. Leave all to me; I can make her understand."

When Mrs. Sheppard entered, as the late dawn began to mingle with the gaslight, she found her
brother sleeping quietly, his hand clasping Mildred's. To her slight expression of surprise
the young girl returned a clear, steadfast look, and said calmly, "When your brother awakes
he has some explanations to make. I am Mildred Jocelyn."

The lady sank into a chair and looked at her earnestly. "I have long wished to see you," she
murmured. "Vinton has told me everything. I was so overcome with sleep and fatigue last night
that I neither told you his name nor asked yours. Did you not suspect where you were?"

"Not until he awoke and recognized me."

"Was he greatly agitated?"

"Yes, at first. It was so unexpected that he thought me a mere illusion of his own mind."

"Miss Jocelyn, I believe God sent you to him."

"So he thinks."

"You won't leave him till--till--It can't be long."

"That depends upon you, Mrs. Sheppard. I am very, very sorry for him," and tears came into
her eyes.

Low as was the murmur of their voices, Arnold awoke and glanced with troubled eyes from one
to the other before it all came back to him; but his sister brought quiet and rest by saying
gently, as she kissed him:

"Vinton, Miss Jocelyn shall not leave you."

CHAPTER XLVIII

"GOOD ANGEL OF GOD"

The young nurse soon became known through the house simply as Miss Mildred. With the exception
of Mrs. Sheppard, the valet, and the physician, no one entered the sick-room except Mr. Arnold,
and the old man often lingered and hovered around like a remorseful ghost. He had grown somewhat
feeble, and no longer went to his business. His son had tolerated his presence since he had
come home to die, but had little to say to him, for the bitterness of his heart extended to
the one who had yielded to his mother's hardness and inveterate worldliness. In the secrecy
of his heart the old merchant admitted that he had been guilty of a fatal error, and the consequences
had been so terrible to his son that he had daily grown more conscience-smitten; but his wife
had gained such an ascendency over him in all social and domestic questions that beyond occasional
protests he had let matters drift until Vinton returned from his long exile in Europe. The
hope that his son would get over what his wife called "an absurd youthful folly" was now rudely
dispelled, and in bitterness he reproached himself that he had not adopted a different course.

From the way in which he came in and looked at his son when he was sleeping, it was soon revealed
to Mildred how he felt, and she pitied him also.

Mrs. Sheppard was a wealthy widow, and the eldest daughter. She was for the present making
her home under the paternal roof.  Unlike her mother, she had quick, strong sympathies, which
sorrows of her own had deepened. She had assumed the care of her brother, and infused into
her ministry a tenderness which at last led the imbittered heart to reveal itself to her. She
was therefore already prepared to be Mildred's sincere ally in bringing a little light into
the late evening-tide of her brother's clouded day.

Most of the time she sat in her own room with the door ajar, leaving Vinton to the ministrations
of his nurse. He required far less care now, for he seemed content to rest as one might during
a respite from torture. His eyes would follow Mildred with a pathetic longing when he was awake,
and when she took his hand and told him to sleep he would obey like a child. He seemed better
because so quiet, but he grew weaker daily. All knew, and none better than himself, that life
was slowly ebbing. His father came in more frequently than ever, for his son showed no restlessness
at his presence now. At Mildred's request Vinton even began to greet him with something like
a welcome, and the young girl did all in her power to make the old gentleman feel at home;
sometimes she would place a large easy-chair by the fire and ask him to sit with them. He was
glad to comply, and often looked wonderingly and earnestly at the fair young nurse that was
working such a transformation in the patient. He once or twice tried to become better acquainted
with her, but ever found her gentle, deferential, and very reserved.

Twice Mildred asked Vinton to let her send for Mr. Wentworth, but he shook his head and said
that she alone could do him any good. "Read the Bible to me when you feel like it. I'll listen
to you, but my best hope is to sleep so quietly that I shall have no dreams. If that cannot
be, I'll remember that you forgave me."

"Such words make me very sad," she replied, on the latter occasion, tears rushing into her eyes.

"I am not worthy that you should care so much," he said. "What am I but a flickering rush-light
which your hand is shielding that it may burn out quietly?"

"Vinton, you are wrong. The life which God has given you cannot cease. I am not wise and learned,
and I have an almost unconquerable diffidence in speaking on these subjects, except to children
and the poor and ignorant. But since you won't see any one else, I must speak. You say God
sent me to you, and I accept your belief, but He did not send me to you merely to relieve physical
pain and mental disquiet. If a man is stumbling toward an abyss of darkness, is it any great
kindness to hold a lamp so that his last steps may be easier? There is for each one of us a
vital truth and a sacred duty, and in shutting your eyes to these and living in the present
hour, you show--pardon an honest friend for saying it--you show a more fatal weakness than
you have yet manifested."

"You are mistaken, Mildred," he said bitterly. "As far as I am concerned, what truth is there
for me to contemplate except a wasted, unhappy life, wrecked and shamed beyond remedy, beyond
hope. I long ago lost what trace of manhood I once had. Never dream that because you have forgiven
me I shall forgive myself.  No, no," he said, with a dark vindictiveness in his eyes, "there
are three that I shall never forgive, and I am one of them. As for duty, the word is torment.
What can I do--I who can scarcely raise my hand? My day is over, my chance has gone by forever.
Don't interrupt me. I know you would speak of the consolations of religion, but I'd rather
go to the devil himself--if there is one--than to such a God as my mother worships; and she
has always been a very religious woman. The whole thing long since became a farce to me at
our church. It was just as much a part of the fashionable world that blighted me as the rest
of society's mummeries. You never went there after you had real trouble to contend with. It
was the last place that you would think of going to for comfort or help. The thought of you
alone has kept me from utter unbelief, and I would be glad to believe that there is some kindly
power in existence that watches over such beings as you are, and that can reward your noble
life; but as far as I am concerned it's all a mystery and a weariness. You are near--you are
merciful and kind.  This is all the heaven I expect. It is far more than I deserve.  Let me
rest, Mildred. It will be but for a few more days. Then when you close my eyes, may I sleep
forever," and he leaned back faint and exhausted. He would not let her interrupt him, for he
seemed bent on settling the question as far as he was concerned, and dismissing it finally.

She listened with fast-falling tears, and answered sighingly, "Oh, I do wish you would see
Mr. Wentworth. You are so wrong--so fatally mistaken."

"No," he said firmly, "I will see no one but you."

"Oh, what shall I say to you?"

"Do not grieve so about me. You cannot change anything. You cannot give me your strong, grand
nature any more than you can your beautiful life and perfect health. I could become a Catholic
and worship St. Mildred," he added with a smile, trying to banish her tears. "The only duty
that I am capable of is to try to make as little trouble as possible, and to cease making it
altogether soon. Go and rest, and I will too, for I'm very tired."

"No," she said resolutely. "My mission to you must not end so weakly, so uselessly. Will you
do me a favor?"

"I?"

"Yes; listen quietly and honestly;" and she read the first verses of the nineteenth chapter
of St. John, ending with the words, "Behold the man."

"Vinton," she said eagerly, "the truth to which I referred was embodied truth, and your first
sacred duty is to look to Him and live. To the last conscious moment of life this will remain
your first and most sacred duty, and were you the strongest man in this city you could not
do more. It's not a question of religions at all, or of what other people are or believe. The
words I have read have brought you face to face with this Divine Man, who came to seek and
save that which was lost. Never did a despairing human soul cry out to Him in vain. He is as
real as I am. His tender pity is infinitely beyond mine. Far better and wiser would it be for
you to turn from me than from Him. Oh, merciful Christ, how the world wrongs Thee!" and she
buried her face in her hands and sobbed bitterly.

"Millie, please don't," he entreated. "I can't endure to see you so grieved."

"Forgive me--I am forgetting myself sadly; but how can I see you so hopeless, so despairing,
when there is no more need of it than of your refusing what I try to do for your comfort? There,
rest now, but think of what I've said. I may have done wrong to tire you so, but to minister
to the body only, when the soul, the man within you, is in such infinite need seems but a mockery.
If you continue to wrong Him who should be the one great hope of every human heart, you will
sadden all my days. My mission will be but a poor one indeed."

He was very much exhausted, but he said gently, "I will think of it, and may the One you serve
so faithfully bless you for your divine pity. What you have said seems to make everything different;
you appear to have something real and definite in your mind. Give me your hand and I will rest;
then, my good angel, teach me your faith."

This Mildred did almost wholly from God's own word. At first it was hard for him to believe
that there were any possibilities for one like him, but at last he accepted the truth that
God is not willing that the least should perish. "The mystery of life is something that the
wisest cannot solve," she said to him, "but the best hopes of the world have ever centred about
this Divine Friend. Burdened hearts have gone to Him in every age and found rest. Oh, how often
He has comforted me when mine seemed breaking!  In response to a simple trust He gives a hope,
a life which I do not think can be found elsewhere, and in the limitless future that which
was all wrong here may be made right and perfect."

"So this is your revenge, Millie. You come and bring me this great hope."

"No, God sent me."

Mildred's mission to the sad-hearted Mrs. Sheppard was almost as sacred and useful as to her
brother, and they had many long talks which possessed all the deep interest which is imparted
by experiences that leave a lasting impress on memory.

Every day increased the bitter regret that short-sighted worldliness had blighted one life
and kept from others one who had such rare powers of creating all that constitutes a home.

To Roger Mildred had written almost daily, telling him everything. Her letters were so frank
and sincere that they dispelled the uneasiness which first took possession of his mind, and
they gradually disarmed him of his hostility to the dying man. There is a point in noble souls
beyond which enmity falters and fails, and he felt that Mildred's course toward Arnold was
like the mercy of God. He reverenced the girl who like an angel of mercy was bringing hope
to a despairing soul.

"Laura," said old Mr. Arnold to Mrs. Sheppard one evening as she was sitting with him in his
library, "this young nurse is a continual surprise to me."

"What do you mean, papa?"

"Well, she impresses me strangely. She has come to us as a professional nurse, and yet I have
never seen a more perfect gentlewoman. There is a subtle grace and refinement about her which
is indescribable. No wonder Vinton has been made better by her care. I wouldn't mind being
sick myself if I could have her about me. That girl has a history. How comes she in such a
position?"

"I think her position a very exalted one," said his daughter warmly. "Think what an infinite
blessing and comfort she has been in our household."

"True, true enough; but I didn't expect any such person to be sent to us."

"I am perfectly ready to admit that this young girl is an unusual character, and have no doubt
that she has had a history that would account for her influence. But you are in error if you
think that these trained nurses are recruited from the ranks of commonplace women. Many of
them come from as good families as ours, and have all the instincts of a true lady. They have
a noble calling, and I envy them."

"Well, you know more about it than I do, but I think this Miss Mildred a rare type of woman.
It's not her beautiful face, for she has a charm, a winsomeness that is hard to define or account
for. She makes me think of some subtle perfume that is even sweeter than the flower from which
it is distilled. Would to God Vinton had met such a girl at first! How different it all might
have been!"

Mrs. Sheppard left the room so hastily as to excite her father's surprise.

One day Vinton said to Mildred, "How can I be truly forgiven unless I forgive? I now see that
I have wronged God's love even more than my mother has wronged me, and in my deep gratitude
from the consciousness of God's forgiveness I would like to forgive her and be reconciled before
I die. To my brother I will send a brief message--I can't see him again, for the ordeal would
be too painful. As for my father, I have long ceased to cherish enmity against him. He, like
myself, is, in a certain sense, a victim of our family pride."

"Vinton," Mildred replied, "I cannot tell you how glad I am to hear you speak so. I have been
waiting and hoping for this, for it is proof that your feeling is not mere emotion and sentiment.
You now propose to do something that is more than manly--it is divine. God's greatest, dearest,
most godlike prerogative is to forgive, and man's noblest act is to forgive a great wrong.
Vinton, you have now won my respect."

She never forgot his answering glance. "Millie," he said softly, "I can die happy now. I never
expected more than your pity."

"If you will do this, your memory will become sweet and ennobled in my heart. Your action will
show me how grandly and swiftly God can develop one who has been wronged by evil."

"God bless you, my good angel. Ask my sister to send for my father and mother at once. I feel
a little stronger this evening, and yet I think the beginning of my new life is very near."

Mildred went into Mrs. Sheppard's room and told her of Vinton's purpose. She looked at the
young girl for a moment with eyes blinded by tears, and then clasped her in a close, passionate
embrace which was more eloquent than any words. "Oh, Mildred," she said, with a low sob, "if
you only could have been my sister!" Then she hastened to carry out her brother's wishes.

The fire burned brightly in the grate, the softened lights diffused a mild radiance through
the room, and the old impression of gloom was utterly absent when Vinton's parents entered.
Neither Mrs. Arnold nor her husband was quite able to hide the surprise and embarrassment felt
at the unexpected summons, but Mr. Arnold went promptly to the bedside, and, taking his son's
hand, said huskily, "I'll come any time you wish, my dear boy, be it night or day."

Vinton gave as warm a pressure in answer as his feebleness permitted, and then he said gravely,
"I wish you and mother to sit here close to me, for I must speak low, and my words must be
brief. I have but a little fragment of life left to me, and must hasten to perform the few
duties yet within my power."

"Had not this young woman better retire?" suggested Mrs. Arnold, glancing coldly at Mildred,
who stood in the background, Mrs. Sheppard detaining her by a strong, warm clasp of her hand.

"No," said Vinton decisively, "she must remain. Were it not for the influence of this Christian--not
religious, but Christian--girl, you would never have seen my face again, with my consent. In
showing me how God forgives the sinful, she has taught me how to forgive. Mother, I never expected
to forgive you, but I do from my heart. I am far beyond the world and all worldly considerations.
In the clear light of the endless life to which we are all hastening, I see as never before
how small, petty, and unworthy are those unnatural principles which blight human life at fashion's
bidding. Mother, I wish to do you justice. You tried to care for me in my childhood and youth.
You spared yourself no expense, no trouble, but you could not seem to understand that what
I needed was sympathy and love--that my heart was always repressed and unhappy. The human soul,
however weak, is not like an exotic plant. It should be tended by a hand that is as gentle
as it is firm and careful. I found one who combined gentleness with strength; stern, lofty
principle with the most beautiful and delicate womanhood; and you know how I lost her. Could
I have followed the instincts of my heart, my fate would have been widely different. But that
is now all past. You did not mean to wrong me so terribly. It was only because your own life
was all wrong that you wronged me. Your pride and prejudice prevented you from knowing the
truth concerning the girl I loved. Bury your worldly pride in my grave, and learn to be gentle
and womanly, and may God forgive you as truly as I do."

As he spoke slowly and feebly, the cold, proud woman began to tremble and weep, and when his
words ceased she sank on her knees at his bedside and sobbed, "Oh, what have I done? Must I
bear the remorse of having murdered my own child?"

"No, mother, you were blinded as I was. You will be forgiven as I have been. In the better
home of heaven we'll find the secret of our true relationship which we missed here. Good-by
now. I must hasten, for I am very weak."

Mrs. Arnold rose, put her arms around her son and kissed him, and her daughter supported her
from the room, Vinton's eyes following her sorrowfully until she disappeared. Then he said,
"Dear old father, come and sit close beside me."

He came, and bowed his head upon his son's hand.

"Millie," he called feebly to the young girl who stood by the fire with her face buried in
her hands. She came at once. "God bless you for those tears. They fall like dew into my soul.
Millie, I feel as if--I don't know what it means--it seems as if I might go to my rest now.
The room is growing dark, and I seem to see you more in my mind than with my eyes. Millie,
will you--can you so far forgive me as to take my head upon your bosom and let me say my last
words near your heart?"

"Great God!" cried his father, starting up, "is he dying?"

"Father, please be calm. Keep my hand. Let my end come as I wish. Millie, Millie, won't you?"

Her experienced eyes saw that his death was indeed at hand--that his life had but flickered
up brightly once more before expiring. Therefore she gratified his final wish, and took his
head upon her breast.

"Rest, rest at last," he sighed.

"Father," he said after a moment or two, "look at this dear girl who has saved my soul from
death." The old man lifted his head and gazed upon the pure, sweet face at which he had looked
so often and questioningly before.

"Oh, Vinton, Vinton, God forgive me! I see it all. Our insane pride and prejudice kept a good
angel from our home."

"Yes, father, this is Mildred Jocelyn. Was I wrong to love her?"

"Oh, blind, blind fool that I've been!" the old man groaned.

"Don't grieve so, father. If you will listen to her words, her mission to us all will be complete.
She is fatherless. Be kind to her after I am gone."

The old man rose slowly and leaned his brow on Mildred's head. "My child," he said brokenly,
"all my love for Vinton shall now go to you, and his portion shall be yours."

"God bless you, father. Good-by now. Let me sleep," and his eyes closed wearily.

"That's right, my boy; you'll be better in the morning," and with feeble, faltering steps he
left the room, murmuring, "Oh, that I had only known in time!"

Mrs. Sheppard now entered and took his place. For a little time Vinton seemed to sleep. Then
he opened his eyes and looked slowly around. They kindled into loving recognition as they rested
on his sister. "Laura, your patience and mercy toward me have been rewarded," he whispered.
"Say to Mansfield and my other brother and sisters what I told you. Be as kind to Mildred as
you have been to me. Good-by."

"Millie, Millie, good angel of God to me, farewell for a little while."

His eyes closed again, his breath came more and more slowly, and at last it ceased. His sister
put her hand over his heart. His sad, thwarted life had ended on earth.

Mildred kissed him for the first time in her ministry, and murmured, as she gently laid his
head back upon the pillow, "Thank God, it has not ended as I feared!"

CHAPTER XLIX

HOME

We take up the thread of our story after the lapse of several months. Mildred left the Arnold
family softened and full of regret. Even proud Mrs. Arnold asked her forgiveness with many
bitter tears, but beyond a few little significant gifts they found it impossible to make the
one toward whom their hearts were now so tender take more than the regular compensation that
went toward the support of the institution to which she belonged. Mr. Arnold and Mrs. Sheppard
would not give her up, and often came to see her, and the old gentleman always made her promise
that when he became ill she would take care of him; and once he whispered to her, "You won'
take anything from me now, but in my will I can remember my debt. All my wealth cannot pay
what I owe to you."

"Money has nothing to do with my relations to you," she replied gently.

"Vinton's portion belongs to you," was his quiet reply. The poor boy so understood it, and
I shall not break faith with the dead."

"Then his portion shall go toward relieving suffering in this city," was her answer.

"You can do what you please with it, for it shall be yours."

While Mildred quietly performed her duties as head-nurse in one of the wards during the last
six months of the two years of her sojourn at the Training School, some important changes had
occurred in Roger's circumstances. He had, more than a year before, graduated second in his
class at college, and had given the impression that he would have been first had he taken the
full four years' course. His crotchety uncle, with whom since the reconciliation he had resided,
had died, and after a few months his wife followed him, and Roger found himself a wealthy man,
but not a happy one. Beyond giving his parents every comfort which they craved, and making
his sister Susan quite an heiress, he scarcely knew what to do with the money. His uncle's
home was not at all to his taste, and he soon left it, purchasing a moderate-sized but substantial
and elegant house in a part of the city that best suited his convenience. Here he installed
Mrs. Wheaton as housekeeper, and, with the exception of his own suite of rooms and the sleeping
apartments, left all the rest unfurnished. After placing himself in a position to offer hospitalities
to his country relatives, he determined that the parlors should remain empty, as a mute reproach
to Mildred.

One evening, a week before she graduated, he induced her to go with him to see his house. "It's
not a home," he whispered; "I merely stay here." Then, without giving time for reply, he ushered
her into the hall, which was simply but very elegantly furnished.  Mildred had time only to
note two or three fine old engravings and a bronze figure, when Mrs. Wheaton, bustling up from
the basement, overwhelmed her with hospitality. They first inspected her domains, and in neatness
and comfort found them all that could be desired. "You see," said the good woman, as she and
Mildred were hidden from view in a china closet, "I could get hup quite a grand dinner, but
I hain't much use fur these 'ere things, for he heats less and less hevery day. I'm troubled
habout Mr. Roger, fur he seems kinder low hin 'is spirits and discouraged like. Most young
men vould feel like lords hin 'is shoes, but he's a-gettin' veary and listless-like. Vun day
he vas so down that I vanted 'im to see a doctor, but he smiled kinder strange and said nothin'.
He's a-gettin' thin and pale. Vat vould I do hif he should get sick?"

Mildred turned in quick alarm and glanced at the young man, who stood looking at the glowing
kitchen-range, as if his thoughts were little interested in the homely appliances for his material
comfort. His appearance confirmed Mrs. Wheaton's words, for his features were thinner than
they had been since he recovered from his illness, and there was a suggestion of lassitude
and dejection in his manner. She went directly to him and said:

"Mrs. Wheaton tells me you are not well."

He started, then threw off all depression, remarking lightly, "Mrs. Wheaton is fidgety. She
prepares enough food for four men.  I'm well--have been working rather late at night, that's all."

"Why do you, Roger?" she asked, in a voice full of solicitude.

"If I don't feel sleepy there is no use in wasting time. But come, you have seen enough of
the culinary department. Since Mrs. Wheaton has charge of it you can know beforehand that everything
will be the best of its kind. I think I can show you something in my sitting-room that will
interest you more."

Mrs. Wheaton preceded them, and Mildred took his arm in a way that showed that he had not been
able to banish her anxiety on his behalf. "Let me see your parlors, Roger," she said when they
again reached the hall. "I expect to find them models of elegance."

He threw open the door and revealed two bare rooms, the brilliantly burning gas showing frescoes
of unusual beauty, but beyond these there was nothing to relieve their bleak emptiness.  "I
have no use for these rooms," he remarked briefly, closing the door. "Come with me," and he
led her to the apartment facing the street on the second floor. The gas was burning dimly,
but when he had placed her where he wished her to stand, he suddenly turned it up, and before
her, smiling into her eyes from the wall, were three exquisitely finished oil portraits--her
father and mother and Belle, looking as she remembered them in their best and happiest days.

The effect upon her at first was almost overpowering. She sank into a chair with heart far
too full for words, and looked until tears so blinded her eyes that she could see them no longer.

"Roger," she murmured, "it's almost the same as if you had brought them back to life. Oh, Roger,
God bless you--you have not banished papa; you have made him look as he asked us to remember
him," and her tender grief became uncontrollable for a few moments.

"Don't cry so, Millie," he said gently. "Don't you see they are smiling at you? Are the likenesses
good?"

"They are lifelike," she answered after a little. "How could you get them so perfect?"

"Belle and your mother gave me their pictures long ago, and you remember that I once asked
you for your father's likeness when I was looking for him. There were some who could aid me
if they knew how he looked. Then you know my eye is rather correct, and I spent a good deal
of time with the artist. Between us we reached these results, and it's a great happiness to
me that they please you."

Her eyes were eloquent indeed as she said, in a low tone: "What a loyal friend you are!"

He shook his head so significantly that a sudden crimson came into her face, and she was glad
that Mrs. Wheaton was busy in an adjoining room. "Come," he said lightly, "you are neglecting
other friends;" and turning she saw fine photographs of Mr. Wentworth, of Clara Wilson, Mrs.
Wheaton, and her little brother and sister; also oil portraits of Roger's relatives.

She went and stood before each one, and at last returned to her own kindred, and her eyes began
to fill again.

"How rich you are in these!" she at last said. "I have nothing but little pictures."

"These are yours, Millie. When you are ready for them I shall place them on your walls myself."

"Roger," she said a little brusquely, dashing the tears out of her eyes, "don't do or say any
more kind things to-night, or my self-control will be all gone."

"On the contrary, I shall ask you to do me a kindness. Please sit down on this low chair by
the fire. Then I can add the last and best picture to this family gallery."

She did so hesitatingly, and was provoked to find that her color would rise as he leaned his
elbow on the mantel and looked at her intently. She could not meet his eyes, for there was
a heart-hunger in them that seemed to touch her very soul. "Oh," she thought, "why doesn't
he--why can't he get over it?" and her tears began to flow so fast that he said lightly:

"That will do, Millie. I won't have that chair moved. Perhaps you think an incipient lawyer
has no imagination, but I shall see you there to-morrow night. Come away now from this room
of shadows. Your first visit to me has cost you so many tears that you will not come again."

"They are not bitter tears. It almost seems as if I had found the treasures I had lost. So
far from being saddened, I'm happier than I've been since I lost them--at least I should be
if I saw you looking better. Roger, you are growing thin; you don't act like your old self."

"Well, I won't work late at night any longer if you don't wish me to," he replied evasively.

"Make me that promise," she pleaded eagerly.

"Any promise, Millie."

She wondered at the slight thrill with which her heart responded to his low, deep tones.

In the library she became a different girl. A strange buoyancy gave animation to her eyes and
a delicate color to her face. She did not analyze her feelings. Her determination that Roger
should have a pleasant evening seemed to her sufficient to account for the shining eyes she
saw reflected in a mirror, and her sparkling words. She praised his selection of authors, though
adding, with a comical look, "You are right in thinking I don't know much about them. The binding
is just to my taste, whatever may be the contents of some of these ponderous tomes. There are
a good many empty shelves, Roger."

"I don't intend to buy books by the cartload," he replied. "A library should grow like the
man who gathers it."

"Roger," she said suddenly, "I think I see some fancy work that I recognize. Yes, here is more."
Then she darted back into the sitting-room. In a moment she returned exclaiming, "I believe
the house is full of my work."

"There is none of your work in the parlors, Millie."

She ignored the implied reproach in words, but could not wholly in manner. "So you and Mrs.
Wentworth conspired against me, and you got the better of me after all. You were my magnificent
patron. How could you look me in the face all those months? How could you watch my busy fingers,
looking meanwhile so innocent and indifferent to my tasks? I used to steal some hours from
sleep to make you little gifts for your bachelor room. They were not fine enough for your lordship,
I suppose. Have you given them away?"

"They are in my room upstairs. They are too sacred for use."

"Who ever heard of such a sentimental brother!" she said, turning abruptly away.

Mrs. Wheaton was their companion now, and she soon gave the final touches to a delicate little
supper, which, with some choice flowers, she had placed on the table. It was her purpose to
wait upon them with the utmost respect and deference, but Mildred drew her into a chair, with
a look that repaid the good soul a hundred times for all the past.

"Roger," she said gayly, "Mrs. Wheaton says you don't eat much. You must make up for all the
past this evening. I'm going to help you, and don't you dare to leave anything."

"Very well, I've made my will," he said, with a smiling nod.

"Oh, don't talk that way. How much shall I give the delicate creature, Mrs. Wheaton? Look here,
Roger, you should not take your meals in a library. You are living on books, and are beginning
to look like their half-starved authors."

"You are right, Miss Millie. 'Alf the time ven I come to take havay the thinks I finds 'im
readin', and the wittles 'ardly touched."

"Men are such foolish, helpless things!" the young girl protested, shaking her head reprovingly
at the offender.

"I must have some company," he replied.

"Nonsense," she cried, veiling her solicitude under a charming petulance. "Roger, if you don't
behave better, you'll be a fit subject for a hospital."

"If I can be sent to your ward I would ask nothing better," was his quick response.

Again she was provoked at her rising color, for his dark eyes glowed with an unmistakable meaning.
She changed the subject by saying, "How many pretty, beautiful, and costly things you have
gathered in this room already! How comes it that you have been so fortunate in your selections?"

"The reason is simple. I have tried to follow your taste. We've been around a great deal together,
and I've always made a note of what you admired."

"Flatterer," she tried to say severely.

"I wasn't flattering--only explaining."

"Oh dear!" she thought, "this won't do at all. This homelike house and his loneliness in it
will make me ready for any folly. Dear old fellow! I wish he wasn't so set, or rather I wish
I were old and wrinkled enough to keep house for him now."

Conscious of a strange compassion and relenting, she hastened her departure, first giving a
wistful glance at the serene faces of those so dear to her, who seemed to say, "Millie, we
have found the home of which you dreamed. Why are not you with us?"

Although she had grown morbid in the conviction that she could not, and indeed ought not to
marry Roger, she walked home with him that night with an odd little unrest in her heart, and
an unexpected discontent with the profession that heretofore had so fully satisfied her with
its promise of independence and usefulness. Having spent an hour or two in her duties at the
hospital, however, she laughed at herself as one does when the world regains its ordinary and
prosaic hues after an absorbing day-dream. Then the hurry and bustle of the few days preceding
her graduation almost wholly occupied her mind.

A large and brilliant company was present in the evening on which she received her diploma,
for the Training School deservedly excited the interest of the best and most philanthropic
people in the city. It was already recognized as the means of giving to women one of the noblest
and most useful careers in which they can engage.

Mildred's fine appearance and excellent record drew to her much attention, and many sought
an introduction. Mr. Wentworth beamed on her, and was eloquent on the credit she had brought
to him. Old Mr. Arnold and Mrs. Sheppard spoke to her so kindly and gratefully that her eyes
grew tearful. Mrs. Wheaton looked on exultantly as the proudest and richest sought the acquaintance
of the girl who had so long been like her own child.

But the first to reach and greet her when the formalities of the evening were over was her
old friend who had been Miss Wetheridge. "We have just arrived from a long absence abroad,"
she exclaimed, "and I'm glad and thankful to say that my husband's health is at last restored.
For the first year or two he was in such a critical condition that I grew selfish in my absorption
in his case, and I neglected you--I neglected everybody and everything. Forgive me, Mildred.
I have not yet had time to ask your story from Mr. Wentworth, but can see from the way he looks
at you that you've inflated him with exultation, and now I shall wait to hear all from your
own lips," and she made the girl promise to give her the first hour she could spare.

In spite of all the claims upon her time and attention, Mildred's eyes often sought Roger's
face, and as often were greeted with a bright, smiling glance, for he had determined that nothing
should mar her pleasure on this evening. Once, however, when he thought himself unobserved,
she saw a look of weariness and dejection that smote her heart.

When the evening was quite well advanced she came to him and said, "Won't you walk with me
a little in this hallway, where we can be somewhat by ourselves? It so happens that I must
go on duty in a few moments, and exchange this bright scene for a dim hospital ward; but I
love my calling, Roger, and never has it seemed so noble as on this evening while listening
to the physician who addressed us. There is such a deep satisfaction in relieving pain and
rescuing life, or at least in trying to do so; and then one often has a chance to say words
that may bring lasting comfort.  Although I am without a home myself, you do not blame me that
I am glad it is my mission to aid in driving away shadows and fear from other homes?"

"I am homeless, too, Millie."

"You! in that beautiful house, with so many that you love looking down upon you?"

"Walls and furniture cannot make a home; neither can painted shadows of those far away. I say,
Millie, how sick must a fellow be in order to have a trained nurse?"

She turned a swift, anxious glance upon him. "Roger, tell me honestly," she said, "are you well?"

"I don't know," he replied, in a low tone; "I fear I'll make you ashamed of me. I didn't mean
to be so weak, but I'm all unstrung to-night. I'm losing courage--losing zest in life. I seem
to have everything, and my friends consider me one of the luckiest of men. But all I have oppresses
me and makes me more lonely. When I was sharing your sorrows and poverty, I was tenfold happier
than I am now. I live in a place haunted by ghosts, and everything in life appears illusive.
I feel to-night as if I were losing you. Your professional duties will take you here and there,
where I cannot see you very often."

"Roger, you trouble me greatly. You are not well at all, and your extreme morbidness proves it."

"I know it's very unmanly to cloud your bright evening, but my depression has been growing
so long and steadily that I can't seem to control it any more. There, Millie, the lady superintendent
is looking for you. Don't worry. You medical and scientific people know that it is nothing
but a torpid liver. Perhaps I may be ill enough to have a trained nurse. You see I am playing
a deep game," and with an attempt at a hearty laugh he said good-night, and she was compelled
to hasten away, but it was with a burdened, anxious mind.

A few moments later she entered on her duties in one of the surgical wards, performing them
accurately from habit, but mechanically, for her thoughts were far absent. It seemed to her
that she was failing one who had never failed her, and her self-reproach and disquietude grew
stronger every moment. "After all he has been to me, can I leave him to an unhappy life?" was
the definite question that now presented itself. At last, in a respite from her tasks, she
sat down and thought deeply.

Roger, having placed Mrs. Wheaton in a carriage, was about to follow on foot, when Mr. Wentworth
claimed his attention for a time. At last, after the majority of the guests had departed, he
sallied forth and walked listlessly in the frosty air that once had made his step so quick
and elastic. He had not gone very far before he heard the sound of galloping horses, then the
voices of women crying for help. Turning back he saw a carriage coining toward him at furious
speed. A sudden recklessness was mingled with his impulse to save those in extreme peril, and
he rushed from the sidewalk, sprang and caught with his whole weight the headgear of the horse
nearest to him. His impetuous onset combined with his weight checked the animal somewhat, and
before the other horse could drag him very far, a policeman came to his aid, dealing a staggering
blow behind the beast's ear with his club, then catching the rein.

Roger's right arm was so badly strained that it seemed to fail him, and before he could get
out of the way, the rearing horse he was trying to hold struck him down and trampled upon him.
He was snatched out from under the iron-shod hoofs by the fast gathering crowd, but found himself
unable to rise.

"Take me to Bellevue," he said decisively.

The hospital was not far away, and yet before an ambulance could reach him he felt very faint.

Mildred sat in her little room that was partitioned off from the ward. Her eyes were wide and
earnest, but that which she saw was not present to their vision.

Suddenly there were four sharp strokes of the bell from the hospital gate, and she started
slightly out of her revery, for the imperative summons indicated a surgical case which might
come under her care. There was something so absorbing in the character of her thoughts, however,
that she scarcely heeded the fact that an ambulance dashed in, and that the form of a man was
lifted out and carried into the central office. She saw all this obscurely from her window,
but such scenes had become too familiar to check a deep current of thought. When, a few moments
later, the male orderly connected with the ward entered and said, "Miss Jocelyn, I've been
down and seen the books, and accordin' to my reckonin' we'll have that case," she sprang up
with alacrity, and began assuring herself that every appliance that might be needed was in
readiness. "I'm glad I must be busy," she murmured, "for I'm so bewildered by my thoughts and
impulses in Roger's behalf, that it's well I must banish them until I can grow calm and learn
what is right."

The orderly was right, and the "case" just brought in was speedily carried up on the elevator
and borne toward the ward under her charge. With the celerity of well-trained hands she had
prepared everything and directed that her new charge should be placed on a cot near her room.
She then advanced to learn the condition of the injured man. After a single glance she sprang
forward, crying,

"Oh, merciful Heaven! it's Roger!"

"You are acquainted with him then?" asked the surgeon who had accompanied the ambulance, with
much interest.

"He's my brother--he's the best friend I have in the world. Oh, be quick--here. Gently now.
O God, grant his life! Oh, oh, he's unconscious; his coat is soaked with blood--but his heart
is beating. He will, oh, he will live; will he not?"

"Oh, yes, I think so, but the case was so serious that I followed. You had better summon the
surgeon in charge of this division, while I and the orderly restore him to consciousness and
prepare him for treatment."

Before he ceased speaking Mildred was far on her way to seek the additional aid.

When she returned Roger's sleeve had been removed, revealing an ugly wound in the lower part
of his left arm, cut by the cork of a horseshoe, made long and sharp because of the iciness
of the streets. A tourniquet had been applied to the upper part of the arm to prevent further
hemorrhage, and under the administration of stimulants he was giving signs of returning consciousness.

The surgeon in charge of the division soon arrived, and every effort of modern skill was made
in the patient's behalf. Bottles of hot water were placed around his chilled and blood-drained
form, and spirits were injected hypodermically into his system.  The fair young nurse stood
a little in the background, trembling in her intense anxiety, and yet so trained and disciplined
that with the precision of a veteran she could obey the slightest sign from the attendant surgeons.
"He never failed me," she thought; "and if loving care can save his life he shall have it night
and day."

At last Roger knew her, and smiled contentedly; then closed his eyes in almost mortal weariness
and weakness. As far as he was able to think at all, he scarcely cared whether he lived or
died, since Mildred was near him.

The physicians, after as thorough examination as was possible, and doing everything in their
power, left him with hopeful words. The most serious features in the case were his loss of
blood and consequent great exhaustion. The division surgeon said that the chief danger lay
in renewed hemorrhage, and should it occur he must be sent for at once, and then he left the
patient to Mildred's care, with directions as to stimulants and nourishment.

Mildred would not let Roger speak, and he lay in a dreamy, half-waking condition of entire
content. As she sat beside him holding his hand, she was no longer in doubt. "My 'stupid old
heart,' as Belle called it, is awake at last," she thought. "Oh, how awful would be my desolation
if he should die! Now I know what he is to me. I loved Vinton as a girl; I love Roger as a
woman. Oh, how gladly I'd take his place! What could I not sacrifice for him! Now I know what
he has suffered in his loneliness. I understand him at last. I was hoping he would get over
it--as if I could ever get over this! He said he was losing his zest in life. Oh, what an intolerable
burden would his loss make of life for me! O God, spare him; surely such love as this cannot
be given to two human souls to be poured out like water on the rock of a pitiless fate."

"Millie," said Roger faintly, "your hand seems alive, and its pulsations send little thrills
direct to my heart. Were it not for your hand I would think my body already dead."

"Oh, Roger," she murmured, pressing her lips on his hand, "would to God I could put my blood
into your veins. Roger, dear beyond all words, don't fail me, now that I need you as never
before.  Don't speak, don't move. Just rest and gain. Hush, hush. Oh, be quiet! I won't leave
you until you are stronger, and I'll always be within call."

"I'll mind, Millie. I was never more contented in my life."

Toward morning he seemed better and stronger, and she left him a few moments to attend to some
other duties. When she returned she saw to her horror that hemorrhage had taken place, and
that his arm was bleeding rapidly. She sprang to his side, and with trained skill pressed her
fingers on the brachial artery, thus stopping further loss of blood instantly. Then calling
to the orderly, she told him to lose not a second in summoning the surgeon.

Roger looked up into her terror-stricken face, and said quietly, "Millie, I'm not afraid to
die. Indeed I half think it's best. I couldn't go on in the old way much longer--"

"Hush, hush," she whispered.

"No," he said decisively, "my mission to you is finished. You will be an angel of mercy all
your days, but I find that after all my ambitious dreams I'm but an ordinary man. You are stronger,
nobler than I am. You are a soldier that will never be defeated. You think to save my life
by holding an artery, but the wound that was killing me is in my heart. I don't blame you,
Millie--I'm weak--I'm talking at random--"

"Roger, Roger, I'm not a soldier. I am a weak, loving woman. I love you with my whole heart
and soul, and if you should not recover you will blot the sun out of my sky. I now know what
you are to me. I knew it the moment I saw your unconscious face.  Roger, I love you now with
a love like your own--only it must be greater, stronger, deeper; I love you as a woman only
can love. In mercy to me, rally and live--LIVE!"

He looked at her earnestly a moment, and then a glad smile lighted up his face.

"I'll live now," he said quietly. "I should be dead indeed did I not respond to that appeal."

The surgeon appeared speedily, and again took up and tied the artery, giving stimulants liberally.
Roger was soon sleeping with a quietude and rest in his face that assured Mildred that her
words had brought balm and healing to a wound beyond the physician's skill, and that he would
recover. And he did gain hourly from the time she gave him the hope for which he had so long
and so patiently waited. It must be admitted that he played the invalid somewhat, for he was
extremely reluctant to leave the hospital until the period of Mildred's duties expired.

A few months later, with Mrs. Heartwold--the Miss Wetheridge of former days--by her side, she
was driven to Roger's house--her home now. The parlors were no longer empty, and she had furnished
them with her own refined and delicate taste. But not in the midst of their beauty and spaciousness
was she married. Mr. Wentworth stood beneath the portraits of her kindred, and with their dear
faces smiling upon her she gave herself to Roger. Those she loved best stood around her, and
there was a peace and rest in her heart that was beyond joy.

When all were gone, Roger wheeled the low chair to its old place beside the glowing fire, and said:

"Millie, at last we both have a home. See how Belle is smiling at us."

"Dear sister Belle," Mildred murmured, "her words have come true. She said, Roger, when I was
fool enough to detest you, that you 'would win me yet,' and you have--all there is of me."

Roger went and stood before the young girl's smiling face, saying earnestly:

"Dear little Belle, 'we SHALL have good times together yet,' or else the human heart with its
purest love and deepest yearning is a lie."

Then turning, he took his wife in his arms and said, "Millie darling, we shall never be without
a home again. Please God it shall be here until we find the better home of Heaven."

APPENDIX

Christian men and women of New York, you--not the shopkeepers--are chiefly to blame for the
barbarous practice of compelling women, often but growing girls, to stand from morning until
evening, and often till late in the night. The supreme motive of the majority of the men who
enforce this inhuman regulation is to make money. Some are kind-hearted enough to be very willing
that their saleswomen should sit down if their customers would tolerate the practice, and others
are so humane that they grant the privilege without saying, By your leave, to their patrons.

There is no doubt where the main responsibility should be placed in this case.

Were even the intoxicated drayman in charge of a shop, when sober he would have sufficient
sense not to take a course that would drive from him the patronage of the "best and wealthiest
people in town." Upon no class could public opinion make itself felt more completely and quickly
than upon retail merchants. If the people had the humanity to say, We will not buy a dime's
worth at establishments that insist upon a course at once so unnatural and cruel, the evil
would be remedied speedily. Employers declare that they maintain the regulation because so
many of their patrons require that the saleswoman shall always be standing and ready to receive
them. It is difficult to accept this statement, but the truth that the shops wherein the rule
of standing is most rigorously enforced are as well patronized as others is scarcely a less
serious indictment, and it is also a depressing proof of the strange apathy on the question.

No labored logic is needed to prove the inherent barbarity of the practice. Let any man or
woman--even the strongest--try to stand as long as these frail, underfed girls are required
to be upon their feet, and he or she will have a demonstration that can never be forgotten.
In addition, consider the almost continual strain on the mind in explaining about the goods
and in recommending them, in making out tickets of purchase correctly while knowing that any
errors will be charged against their slender earnings, or more than made good by fines. What
is worse, the organs of speech are in almost constant exercise, and all this in the midst of
more or less confusion. The clergyman, the lecturer, is exhausted after an hour of speech.
Why are not their thunders directed against the inhumanity of compelling women to spend ten
or twelve hours of speech upon their feet? The brutal drayman was arrested because he was inflicting
pain on a sentient being. Is not a woman a sentient being? and is any one so ignorant of physiology
as not to have some comprehension of the evils which must result in most cases from compelling
women--often too young to be mature--to stand, under the trying circumstances that have been
described?

An eminent physician in New York told me that ten out of twelve must eventually lose their
health; and a proprietor of one of the shops admitted to me that the girls did suffer this
irreparable loss, and that it would be better for them if they went out to service.

The fact that cashiers who sit all day suffer more than those who stand proves nothing against
the wrong of the latter practice. It only shows that the imperative law of nature, especially
for the young, is change, variety. Why not accept the fact, and be as considerate of the rights
of women as of horses, dogs, and cats? While making my investigations on this subject, I asked
a gentleman who was in charge of one of the largest retail shops in the city, on what principle
he dealt with this question. "On the principle of humanity," he replied. "I have studied hygienic
science, and know that a woman can't stand continuously except at the cost of serious ill-health."

Later I asked the proprietor if he did not think that his humanity was also the best business
policy, for the reason that his employes were in a better condition to attend to their duties.

"No," he said; "on strict business principles I would require constant standing; but this has
no weight with me, in view of the inhumanity of such a rule. If I had the room for it in the
store, I'd give all my employes a good slice of roast beef at noon; but I have not, and therefore
I give them plenty of time for a good lunch."

The manager of another establishment, which was furnished with ample means of rest for the
girls, said to me, "A man that compels a girl to stand all day ought to be flogged."

He also showed me a clean, comfortable place in the basement in which the girls ate their lunches.
It was supplied with a large cooking-stove, with a woman in constant attendance. Each girl
had her own tea or coffee-pot, and time was given for a substantial and wholesome meal. I would
rather pay ten per cent more for goods at such shops than to buy them at others where women
are treated as the cheapest kind of machines, that are easily replaced when broken down.

Granting, for the sake of argument, that customers may not be waited on quite so promptly,
and that the impression of a brisk business may not be given if many of the girls are seated,
these are not sufficient reasons for inflicting torment on those who earn their bread in shops.
I do not and cannot believe, however, that the rule is to the advantage of either employer
or customer in the long run. It is not common-sense that a girl, wearied almost beyond endurance,
and distracted by pain, can give that pleasant, thoughtful attention to the purchaser which
she could bestow were she in a normal condition. At very slight expense the proprietors of
large shops could give all their employes a generous plate of soup and a cup of good tea or
coffee. Many bring meagre and unwholesome lunches; more dine on cake, pastry, and confectionery.
These ill-taught girls are just as prone to sin against their bodies as the better-taught children
of the rich. If employers would give them something substantial at midday, and furnish small
bracket seats which could be pulled out and pushed back within a second of time, they would
find their business sustained by a corps of comfortable, cheerful, healthful employes; and
such a humane, sensible policy certainly ought to be sustained by all who have any sympathy
with Mr. Bergh.

The belief of many, that the majority of the girls are broken down by dissipation, is as superficial
as it is unjust. Undoubtedly, many do carry their evening recreation to an injurious excess,
and some place themselves in the way of temptations which they have not the strength to resist;
but every physician knows that some recreation, some relief from the monotony of their hard
life, is essential. Otherwise, they would grow morbid in mind as well as enfeebled in body.
The crying shame is that there are so few places where these girls can go from their crowded
tenement homes and find innocent entertainment. Their dissipations are scarcely more questionable,
though not so elegantly veneered, as those of the fashionable, nor are the moral and physical
effects much worse. But comparatively few would go to places of ill-repute could they find
harmless amusements suited to their intelligence and taste. After much investigation, I am
satisfied that in point of morals the working-women of New York compare favorably with any
class in the world. To those who do not stand aloof and surmise evil, but who acquaint themselves
with the facts, it is a source of constant wonder that in their hard and often desperate struggle
for bread they still maintain so high a standard.

Tenement life with scanty income involves many shadows at best, but in the name of manhood
I protest against taking advantage of the need of bread to inflict years of pain and premature
death. We all are involved in this wrong to the degree that we sustain establishments from
which a girl is discharged if she does not or cannot obey a rule which it would be torture
for us to keep.

I shall be glad, indeed, if these words hasten by one hour the time when from the temple of
human industry all traders shall be driven out who thrive on the agonies of girls as frail
and impoverished as Mildred Jocelyn.

THE END