"Why, it's open in the middle!" I cried as soon as I had put the glass to my eyes. "There's
a big circular hole in the centre of the roof,"

"Look inside! Look inside!" repeated Hall, impatiently.

"I see nothing there except something bright."

"Do you call it nothing because it is bright?"

"Well, no," I replied, laughing. "What I mean is that I see nothing that I can make anything
of except a shining object, and all I can make of that is that it is bright."

"You've been in the Syx works many times, haven't you?"

"Yes."

"Did you ever see the opening in the roof?"

"Never."

"Did you ever hear of it?"

"Never."

"Then Dr. Syx doesn't show his visitors everything that is to be seen."

"Evidently not since, as we know, he concealed the double tunnel and the room under the furnace."

"Dr. Syx has concealed a bigger secret than that," Hall responded, "and the Grand Teton has
helped me to a glimpse of it."

For several minutes my friend was absorbed in thought. Then he broke out:

"I tell you he's the most wonderful man in the world!"

"Who, Dr. Syx? Well, I've long thought that."

"Yes, but I mean in a different way from what you are thinking of. Do you remember my asking
you once if you believed in alchemy?"

"I remember being greatly surprised by your question to that effect."

"Well, now," said Hall, rubbing his hands with a satisfied air, while his eyes glanced keen
and bright with the reflection of some passing thought, "Max Syx is greater than any alchemist
that ever lived. If those old fellows in the dark ages had accomplished everything they set
out to do, they would have been of no more consequence in comparison with our black-browed
friend down yonder than--than my head is of consequence in comparison with the moon."

"I fear you flatter the man in the moon," was my laughing reply.

"No, I don't," returned Hall, "and some day you'll admit it."

"Well, what about that something that shines down there? You seem to see more in it than I can."

But my companion had fallen into a reverie and didn't hear my question. He was gazing abstractedly
at the faint image of the waning moon, now nearing the distant mountain-top over in Idaho.
Presently his mind seemed to return to the old magnet, and he whirled about and glanced down
at the Syx mill. The column of smoke was diminishing in volume, an indication that the engine
was about to enjoy one of its periodical rests. The irregularity of these stoppages had always
been a subject of remark among practical engineers. The hours of labor were exceedingly erratic,
but the engine had never been known to work at night, except on one occasion, and then only
for a few minutes, when it was suddenly stopped on account of a fire.

Just as Hall resumed his inspection two huge quarter spheres, which had been resting wide apart
on the roof, moved towards one another until their arched sections met over the circular aperture
which they covered like the dome of an observatory.

"I expected it," Hall remarked. "But come, it is mid-afternoon, and we shall need all of our
time to get safely down before the light fades."

As I have already explained, it would not have been possible for us to return the way we came.
We determined to descend the comparatively easy western slopes of the peak, and pass the night
on that side of the mountain. Letting ourselves down with the rope into the hollow way that
divides the summit of the Teton into two pinnacles, we had no difficulty in descending by the
route followed by all previous climbers. The weather was fine, and, having found good shelter
among the rocks, we passed the night in comfort. The next day we succeeded in swinging round
upon the eastern flank of the Teton, below the more formidable cliffs, and, just at nightfall,
we arrived at the station. As we passed the Syx mine the doctor himself confronted us. There
was a very displeasing look on his dark countenance, and his sneer was strongly marked.

"So you have been on top of the Teton?" he said.

"Yes," replied Hall, very blandly, "and if you have a taste for that sort of thing I should
advise you to go up. The view is immense, as fine as the best in the Alps."

"Pretty ingenious plan, that balloon of yours," continued the doctor, still looking black.

"Thank you," Hall replied, more suavely than ever. "I've been planning that a long time. You
probably don't know that mountaineering used to be my chief amusement."

The doctor turned away without pursuing the conversation.

"I could kick myself," Hall muttered as soon as Dr. Syx was out of earshot. "If my absurd wish
to outdo others had not blinded me, I should have known that he would see us going up this
side of the peak, particularly with the balloon to give us away. However, what's done can't
be undone. He may not really suspect the truth, and if he does he can't help himself, even
though he is the richest man in the world."

XI

STRANGE FATE OF A KITE

"Are you ready for another tramp?" was Andrew Hall's greeting when we met early on the morning
following our return from the peak.

"Certainly I am. What is your programme for to-day?"

"I wish to test the flying qualities of a kite which I have constructed since our return last
night."

"You don't allow the calls of sleep to interfere very much with your activity."

"I haven't much time for sleep just now," replied Hall, without smiling. "The kite test will
carry us up the flanks of the Teton, but I am not going to try for the top this time. If you
will come along I'll ask you to help me by carrying and operating a light transit I shall carry
another myself. I am desirous to get the elevation that the kite attains and certain other
data that will be of use to me. We will make a detour towards the south, for I don't want old
Syx's suspicions to be prodded any more."

"What interest can he have in your kite-flying?"

"The same interest that a burglar has in the rap of a policeman's night-stick."

"Then your experiment to-day has some connection with the solution of the great mystery?"

"My dear fellow," said Hall, laying his hand on my shoulder, "until I see the end of that mystery
I shall think of nothing else."

In a few hours we were clambering over the broken rocks on the south-eastern flank of the Teton
at an elevation of about three thousand feet above the level of Jackson's Hole. Finally Hall
paused and began to put his kite together. It was a small box-shaped affair, very light in
construction, with paper sides.

"In order to diminish the chances of Dr. Syx noticing what we are about," he said, as he worked
away, "I have covered the kite with sky-blue paper. This, together with distance, will probably
insure us against his notice."

In a few minutes the kite was ready. Having ascertained the direction of the wind with much
attention, he stationed me with my transit on a commanding rock, and sought another post for
himself at a distance of two hundred yards, which he carefully measured with a gold tape. My
instructions were to keep the telescope on the kite as soon as it had attained a considerable
height, and to note the angle of elevation and the horizontal angle with the base line joining
our points of observation.

"Be particularly careful," was Hall's injunction, "and if anything happens to the kite by all
means note the angles at that instant."

As soon as we had fixed our stations Hall began to pay out the string, and the kite rose very
swiftly. As it sped away into the blue it was soon practically invisible to the naked eye,
although the telescope of the transit enabled me to follow it with ease.

Glancing across now and then at my companion, I noticed that he was having considerable difficulty
in, at the same time, managing the kite and manipulating his transit. But as the kite continued
to rise and steadied in position his task became easier, until at length he ceased to remove
his eye from the telescope while holding the string with outstretched hand.

"Don't lose sight of it now for an instant!" he shouted.

For at least half an hour he continued to manipulate the string, sending the kite now high
towards the zenith with a sudden pull, and then letting it drift off. It seemed at last to
become almost a fixed point. Very slowly the angles changed, when, suddenly, there was a flash,
and to my amazement I saw the paper of the kite shrivel and disappear in a momentary flame,
and then the bare sticks came tumbling out of the sky.

"Did you get the angles?" yelled Hall, excitedly.

"Yes; the telescope is yet pointed on the spot where the kite disappeared."

"Read them off," he called, "and then get your angle with the Syx works."

"All right," I replied, doing as he had requested, and noticing at the same time that he was
in the act of putting his watch in his pocket. "Is there anything else?" I asked.

"No, that will do, thank you."

Hall came running over, his face beaming, and with the air of a man who has just hooked a particularly
cunning old trout.

"Ah!" he exclaimed, "this has been a great success! I could almost dispense with the calculation,
but it is best to be sure."

"What are you about, anyhow?" I asked, "and what was it that happened to the kite?"

"Don't interrupt me just now, please," was the only reply I received.

Thereupon my friend sat down on a rock, pulled out a pad of paper, noted the angles which I
had read on the transit, and fell to figuring with feverish haste. In the course of his work
he consulted a pocket almanac, then glanced up at the sky, muttered approvingly, and finally
leaped to his feet with a half-suppressed "Hurrah!" If I had not known him so well I should
have thought that he had gone daft.

"Will you kindly tell me," I asked, "how you managed to set the kite afire?"

Hall laughed heartily. "You though it was a trick, did you?" said he. "Well, it was no trick,
but a very beautiful demonstration. You surely haven't forgotten the scarlet tanager that gave
you such a surprise the day before yesterday."

"Do you mean" I exclaimed, startled at the suggestion, "that the fate of the bird had any connection
with the accident to your kite?"

"Accident isn't precisely the right word," replied Hall. "The two things are as intimately
related as own brothers. If you should care to hunt up the kite sticks, you would find that
they, too, are now artemisium plated."

"This is getting too deep for me," was all that I could say.

"I am not absolutely confident that I have touched bottom myself," said Hall, "but I'm going
to make another dive, and if I don't bring up treasures greater than Vanderdecken found at
the bottom of the sea, then Dr. Syx is even a more wonderful human mystery than I have thought
him to be."

"What do you propose to do next?"

"To shake the dust of the Grand Teton from my shoes and go to San Francisco, where I have an
extensive laboratory."

"So you are going to try a little alchemy yourself, are you?"

"Perhaps; who knows? At any rate, my good friend, I am forever indebted to you for your assistance,
and even more for your discretion, and if I succeed you shall be the first person in the world
to hear the news."

XII

BETTER THAN ALCHEMY

I come now to a part of my narrative which would have been deemed altogether incredible in
those closing years of the nineteenth century that witnessed the first steps towards the solution
of the deepest mysteries of the ether, although men even then held in their hands, without
knowing it, powers which, after they had been mastered and before use had made them familiar,
seemed no less than godlike.

For six months after Hall's departure for San Francisco I heard nothing from him. Notwithstanding
my intense desire to know what he was doing, I did not seek to disturb him in his retirement.
In the meantime things ran on as usual in the world, only a ripple being caused by renewed
discoveries of small nuggets of artemisium on the Tetons, a fact which recalled to my mind
the remark of my friend when he dislodged a flake of the metal from a crevice during our ascent
of the peak. At last one day I received this telegram at my office in New York:

"SAN FRANCISCO, May 16, 1940.

"Come at once. The mystery is solved.

"(Signed) HALL."

As soon as I could pack a grip I was flying westward one hundred miles an hour. On reaching
San Francisco, which had made enormous strides since the opening of the twentieth century,
owing to the extension of our Oriental possessions, and which already ranked with New York
and Chicago among the financial capitals of the world, I hastened to Hall's laboratory. He
was there expecting me, and, after a hearty greeting, during which his elation over his success
was manifest, he said:

"I am compelled to ask you to make a little journey. I found it impossible to secure the necessary
privacy here, and, before opening my experiments, I selected a site for a new laboratory in
an unfrequented spot among the mountains this side of Lake Tahoe. You will be the first man,
with the exception of my two devoted assistants, to see my apparatus, and you shall share the
sensation of the critical experiment."

"Then you have not yet completed your solution of the secret?"

"Yes, I have; for I am as certain of the result as if I had seen it, but I thought you were
entitled to be in with me at the death."

From the nearest railway station we took horses to the laboratory, which occupied a secluded
but most beautiful site at an elevation of about six thousand feet above sea-level. With considerable
surprise I noticed a building surmounted with a dome, recalling what we had seen from the Grand
Teton on the roof of Dr. Syx's mill. Hall, observing my look, smiled significantly, but said
nothing. The laboratory proper occupied a smaller building adjoining the domed structure. Hall
led the way into an apartment having but a single door and illuminated by a skylight.

"This is my sanctum sanctorum," he said, "and you are the first outsider to enter it. Seat
yourself comfortably while I proceed to unveil a little corner of the artemisium mystery."

Near one end of the room, which was about thirty feet in length, was a table, on which lay
a glass tube about two inches in diameter and thirty inches long. In the farther end of the
tube gleamed a lump of yellow metal, which I took to be gold. Hall and I were seated near another
table about twenty-five feet distant from the tube, and on this table was an apparatus furnished
with a concave mirror, whose optical axis was directed towards the tube. It occurred to me
at once that this apparatus would be suitable for experimenting with electric waves. Wires
ran from it to the floor, and in the cellar beneath was audible the beating of an engine. My
companion made an adjustment or two, and then remarked:

"Now, keep your eyes on the lump of gold in the farther end of the tube yonder.  The tube is
exhausted of air, and I am about to concentrate upon the gold an intense electric influence,
which will have the effect of making it a kind of kathode pole. I only use this term for the
sake of illustration. You will recall that as long ago as the days of Crookes it was known
that a kathode in an exhausted tube would project particles, or atoms, of its substance away
in straight lines. Now watch!"

I fixed my attention upon the gold, and presently saw it enveloped in a most beautiful violet
light. This grew more intense, until, at times, it was blinding, while, at the same moment,
the interior of the tube seemed to have become charged with a luminous vapor of a delicate
pinkish hue.

"Watch! Watch!" said Hall. "Look at the nearer end of the tube!"

"Why, it is becoming coated with gold!" I exclaimed.

He smiled, but made no reply. Still the strange process continued. The pink vapor became so
dense that the lump of gold was no longer visible, although the eye of violet light glared
piercingly through the colored fog. Every second the deposit of metal, shining like a mirror,
increased, until suddenly there came a curious whistling sound. Hall, who had been adjusting
the mirror, jerked away his hand and gave it a flip, as if hot water had spattered it, and
then the light in the tube quickly died away, the vapor escaped, filling the room with a peculiar
stimulating odor, and I perceived that the end of the glass tube had been melted through, and
the molten gold was slowly dripping from it.

"I carried it a little too far," said Hall, ruefully rubbing the back of his hand, "and when
the glass gave way under the atomic bombardment a few atoms of gold visited my bones. But there
is no harm done. You observed that the instant the air reached the kathode, as I for convenience
call the electrified mass of gold, the action ceased."

"But your anode, to continue your simile," I said, "is constantly exposed to the air."

"True," he replied, "but in the first place, of course, this is not really an anode, just as
the other is not actually a kathode. As science advances we are compelled, for a time, to use
old terms in a new sense until a fresh nomenclature can be invented. But we are now dealing
with a form of electric action more subtile in its effects than any at present described in
the text-books and the transactions of learned societies. I have not yet even attempted to
work out the theory of it. I am only concerned with its facts."

"But wonderful as the exhibition you have given is, I do not see," I said, "how it concerns
Dr. Syx and his artemisium."

"Listen," replied Hall, settling back in his chair after disconnecting his apparatus. "You
no doubt have been told how one night the Syx engine was heard working for a few minutes, the
first and only night work it was ever known to have done, and how, hardly had it started up
when a fire broke out in the mill, and the engine was instantly stopped. Now there is a very
remarkable story connected with that, and it will show you how I got my first clew to the mystery,
although it was rather a mere suspicion than a clew, for at first I could make nothing out
of it. The alleged fire occurred about a fortnight after our discovery of the double tunnel.
My mind was then full of suspicions concerning Syx, because I thought that a man who would
fool people with one hand was not likely to deal fairly with the other.

"It was a glorious night, with a full moon, whose face was so clear in the limpid air that,
having found a snug place at the foot of a yellow-pine-tree, where the ground was carpeted
with odoriferous needles, I lay on my back and renewed my early acquaintance with the romantically
named mountains and 'seas' of the Lunar globe. With my binocular I could trace those long white
streaks which radiate from the crater ring, called 'Tycho,' and run hundreds of miles in all
directions over the moon. As I gazed at these singular objects I recalled the various theories
which astronomers, puzzled by their enigmatical aspect, have offered to a more or less confiding
public concerning them.

"In the midst of my meditation and moon gazing I was startled by hearing the engine in the
Syx works suddenly begin to run. Immediately a queer light, shaped like the beam of a ship's
searchlight, but reddish in color, rose high in the moonlit heavens above the mill. It did
not last more than a minute or two, for almost instantly the engine was stopped, and with its
stoppage the light faded and soon disappeared. The next day Dr. Syx gave it out that on starting
up his engine in the night something had caught fire, which compelled him immediately to shut
down again. The few who had seen the light, with the exception of your humble servant, accepted
the doctor's explanation without a question. But I knew there had been no fire, and Syx's anxiety
to spread the lie led me to believe that he had narrowly escaped giving away a vital secret.
I said nothing about my suspicions, but upon inquiry I found out that an extra and pressing
order for metal had arrived from the Austrian government the very day of the pretended fire,
and I drew the inference that Syx, in his haste to fill the order--his supply having been drawn
low--had started to work, contrary to his custom, at night, and had immediately found reason
to repent his rashness. Of course, I connected the strange light with this sudden change of mind.

"My suspicion having been thus stimulated, and having been directed in a certain way, I began,
from that moment to notice closely the hours during which the engine labored. At night it was
always quiet, except on that one brief occasion. Sometimes it began early in the morning and
stopped about noon. At other times the work was done entirely in the afternoon, beginning sometimes
as late as three or four o'clock, and ceasing invariably at sundown. Then again it would start
at sunrise and continue the whole day through.

"For a long time I was unable to account for these eccentricities, and the problem was not
rendered much clearer, although a startling suggestiveness was added to it, when, at length,
I noticed that the periods of activity of the engine had a definite relation to the age of
the moon. Then I discovered, with the aid of an almanac, that I could predict the hours when
the engine would be busy. At the time of new moon it worked all day; at full moon, it was idle;
between full moon and last quarter, it labored in the forenoon, the length of its working hours
increasing as the quarter was approached; between last quarter and new moon, the hours of work
lengthened, until, as I have said, at new moon they lasted all day; between new moon and first
quarter, work began later and later in the forenoon as the quarter was approached, and between
first quarter and full moon the laboring hours rapidly shortened, being confined to the latter
part of the afternoon, until at full moon complete silence reigned in the mill."

"Well! well!" I broke in, greatly astonished by Hall's singular recital, "you must have thought
Dr. Syx was a cross between an alchemist and an astrologer."

"Note this," said Hall, disregarding my interruption, "the hours when the engine worked were
invariably the hours during which the moon was above the horizon!"

"What did you infer from that?" "Of course, I inferred that the moon was directly concerned
in the mystery; but how? That bothered me for a long time, but a little light broke into my
mind when I picked up, on the mountain-side, a dead bird, whose scorched feathers were bronzed
with artemisium, and sometime later another similar victim of a mysterious form of death. Then
came the attack on the mine and its tragic finish. I have already told you what I observed
on that occasion. But, instead of helping to clear up the mystery, it rather complicated it
for a time. At length, however, I reasoned my way partly out of the difficulty. Certain things
which I had noticed in the Syx mill convinced me that there was a part of the building whose
existence no visitor suspected, and, putting one thing with another, I inferred that the roof
must be open above that secret part of the structure, and that if I could get upon a sufficiently
elevated place I could see something of what was hidden there.

"At this point in the investigation I proposed to you the trip to the top of the Teton, the
result of which you remember. I had calculated the angles with great care, and I felt certain
that from the apex of the mountain I should be able to get a view into the concealed chamber,
and into just that side of it which I wished particularly to inspect. You remember that I called
your attention to a shining object underneath the circular opening in the roof. You could not
make out what it was, but I saw enough to convince me that it was a gigantic parabolic mirror.
I'll show you a smaller one of the same kind presently.

"Now, at last, I began to perceive the real truth, but it was so wildly incredible, so infinitely
remote from all human experience, that I hardly ventured to formulate it, even in my own secret
mind. But I was bound to see the thing through to the end. It occurred to me that I could prove
the accuracy of my theory with the aid of a kite. You were kind enough to lend your assistance
in that experiment, and it gave me irrefragable evidence of the existence of a shaft of flying
atoms extending in a direct line between Dr. Syx's pretended mine and the moon!"

"Hall!" I exclaimed, "you are mad!" My friend smiled good-naturedly, and went on with his story.

"The instant the kite shrivelled and disappeared I understood why the works were idle when
the moon was not above the horizon, why birds flying across that fatal beam fell dead upon
the rocks, and whence the terrible master of that mysterious mill derived the power of destruction
that could wither an army as the Assyrian host in Byron's poem

  "Melted like snow in the glance of the Lord."

"But how did Dr. Syx turn the flying atoms against his enemies?" I asked.

"In a very simple manner. He had a mirror mounted so that it could be turned in any direction,
and would shunt the stream of metallic atoms, heated by their friction with the air, towards
any desired point. When the attack came he raised this machine above the level of the roof
and swept the mob to a lustrous, if expensive, death."

"And the light at night--"

"Was the shining of the heated atoms, not luminous enough to be visible in broad day, for which
reason the engine never worked at night, and the stream of volatilized artemisium was never
set flowing at full moon, when the lunar globe is above the horizon only during the hours of
darkness."

"I see," I said, "whence came the nuggets on the mountain. Some of the atoms, owing to the
resistance of the air, fell short and settled in the form of impalpable dust until the winds
and rains collected and compacted them in the cracks and crevices of the rocks."

"That was it, of course."

"And now," I added, my amazement at the success of Hall's experiments and the accuracy of his
deductions increasing every moment, "do you say that you have also discovered the means employed
by Dr. Syx to obtain artemisium from the moon?"

"Not only that," replied my friend, "but within the next few minutes I shall have the pleasure
of presenting to you a button of moon metal, fresh from the veins of Artemis herself."

XIII

THE LOOTING OF THE MOON

I shall spare the reader a recital of the tireless efforts, continuing through many almost
sleepless weeks, whereby Andrew Hall obtained his clew to Dr. Syx's method. It was manifest
from the beginning that the agent concerned must be some form of etheric, or so-called electric,
energy; but how to set it in operation was the problem. Finally he hit upon the apparatus for
his initial experiments which I have already described.

