[2] This may be a true observation of Josephus's, that Samuel by command from God entailed
the crown on David and his posterity; for no further did that entail ever reach, Solomon himself
having never had any promise made him that his posterity should always have the right to it.

[3] These words of Josephus concerning the tribe of Issachar, who foreknew what was to come
hereafter," are best paraphrased by the parallel text. 1 Chronicles 12:32, "Who had understanding
of the times to know what Israel ought to do;" that is, who had so much knowledge in astronomy
as to make calendars for the Israelites, that they might keep their festivals, and plough and
sow, and gather in their harvests and vintage, in due season.

[4] What our other copies say of Mount Sion, as alone properly called the city of David, 2
Samuel 5:6-9, and of this its siege and conquest now by David, Josephus applies to the whole
city Jerusalem, though including the citadel also; by what authority we do not now know perhaps,
after David had united them together, or joined the citadel to the lower city, as sect. 2,
Josephus esteemed them as one city. However, this notion seems to be confirmed by what the
same Josephus says concerning David's and many other kings of Judah's sepulchers, which as
the authors of the books of Kings and Chronicles say were in the city of David, so does Josephus
still say they were in Jerusalem. The sepulcher of David seems to have been also a known place
in the several days of Hyrcanus, of Herod, and of St. Peter, Antiq. B. XIII. ch. 8. sect. 4
B. XVI. ch. 8. sect. 1; Acts 2:29. Now no such royal sepulchers have been found about Mount
Sion, but are found close by the north wall of Jerusalem, which I suspect, therefore, to be
these very sepulchers. See the note on ch. 15. sect. 3. In the meantime, Josephus's explication
of the lame, and the blind, and the maimed, as set to keep this city or citadel, seems to be
the truth, and gives the best light to that history in our Bible. Mr. Ottius truly observes,
[up. Hayercamp, p. 305,] that Josephus never mentions Mount Sion by that name, as taking it
for an appellative, as I suppose, and not for a proper name; he still either styles it The
Citadel, or The Upper City; nor do I see any reason for Mr. Ottius's evil suspicions about
this procedure of Josephus.

[5] Some copies of Josephus have here Solyma, or Salem; and others Hierosolyma, or Jerusalem.
The latter best agree to what Josephus says elsewhere, [Of the War, B. VI. ch. 10.,] that this
city was called Solyma, or Salem, before the days of Melchisedec, but was by him called Hierosolyma,
or Jerusalem. I rather suppose it to have been so called after Abraham had received that oracle
Jehovah Jireh, "The Lord will see, or provide," Genesis 22;14. The latter word, Jireh, with
a little alteration, prefixed to the old name Salem, Peace, will be Jerusalem; and since that
expression, "God will see," or rather, "God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt-offering,"
ver. 8, 14, is there said to have been proverbial till the days of Moses, this seems to me
the most probable derivation of that name, which will then denote that God would provide peace
by that "Lamb of God which was to take away the sins of the world." However, that which is
put into brackets can hardly be supposed the genuine words of Josephus, as Dr. Hudson well judges.

[6] It deserves here to be remarked, that Saul very rarely, and David very frequently, consulted
God by Urim; and that David aimed always to depend, not on his own prudence or abilities but
on the Divine direction, contrary to Saul's practice. See sect. 2, and the note on Antiq. B.
III. ch. 8. sect. 9; and when Saul's daughter, [but David's wife,] Michal, laughed at David's
dancing before the ark, 2 Samuel 6:16, &c., and here, sect. l, 2, 3, it is probable she did
so, because her father Saul did not use to pay such a regard to the ark, to the Urim there
inquired by, or to God's worship before it, and because she thought it beneath the dignity
of a king to be so religious.

[7] Josephus seems to be partly in the right, when he observes here that Uzzah was no priest,
[though perhaps he might be a Levite,] and was therefore struck dead for touching the ark,
contrary to the law, and for which profane rashness death was the penalty by that law, Numbers
4:15, 20. See the like before, Antiq. B. VI. ch. 1. sect. 4. It is not improbable that the
putting this ark in a cart, when it ought to have been carried by the priests or Levites, as
it was presently here in Josephus so carried from Obededom's house to David's, might be also
an occasion of the anger of God on that breach of his law. See Numbers 4:15; 1 Chronicles 15:13.

[8] Josephus here informs us, that, according to his understanding of the sense of his copy
of the Pentateuch, Moses had himself foretold the building of the temple, which yet is no where,
that I know of, in our present copies. And that this is not a mistake set down by him unwarily,
appears by what he observed before, on Antiq. B. IV. ch. 8. sect. 46, how Moses foretold that,
upon the Jews' future disobedience, their temple should be burnt and rebuilt, and that not
once only, but several times afterward. See also Josephus's mention of God's former commands
to build such a temple presently, ch. 14. sect. 2, contrary to our other copies, or at least
to our translation of the Hebrew, 2 Samuel 7:6, 7; 1 Chronicles 17:5, 6.

[9] Josephus seems, in this place, with our modern interpreters to confound the two distinct
predictions which God made to David and to Nathan, concerning the building him a temple by
one of David's posterity; the one belongeth to Solomon, the other to the Messiah; the distinction
between which is of the greatest consequence to the Christian religion.

[10] Whether Syria Zobah, 2 Samuel 3:8; 1 Chronicles 18:3-8, be Sophene, as Josephus here supposes;
which yet Ptolemy places beyond Euphrates, as Dr. Hudson observes here, whereas Zobah was on
this side; or whether Josephus was not here guilty of a mistake in his geography; I cannot
certainly determine.

[11] David's reserving only one hundred chariots for himself out of one thousand he had taken
from Hadadezer, was most probably in compliance with the law of Moses, which forbade a king
of Israel "to multiply horses to himself," Deuteronomy 17:16; one of the principal uses of
horses in Judea at that time being for drawing their chariots. See Joshua 12:6; and Antiq.
B. V. ch. 1. sect. 18. It deserves here to be remarked, that this Hadad, being a very great
king, was conquered by David, whose posterity yet for several generations were called Benhadad,
or the son of Hadad, till the days of Hazael, whose son Adar or Ader is also in our Hebrew
copy [2 Kings 13:24] written Benhadad, but in Josephus Adad or Adar. And strange it is, that
the son of Hazael, said to be such in the same text, and in Josephus, Antiq. B. IX. ch. 8.
sect. 7, should still be called the son of Hadad. I would, therefore, here correct our Hebrew
copy from Josephus's, which seems to have the true reading, nor does the testimony of Nicolaus
of Damascus, produced in this place by Josephus, seem to be faultless, when it says that he
was the third of the Hadads, or second of the Benhadads, who besieged Samaria in the days of
Ahab. He must rather have been the seventh or eighth, if there were ten in all of that name,
as we are assured there were. For this testimony makes all the Hadads or Benhadads of the same
line, and to have immediately succeeded one another; whereas Hazael was not of that line, nor
is he called Hadad or Benhadad in any copy. And note, that from this Hadad, in the days of
David, to the beginning of Hazael, were near two hundred years, according to the exactest chronology
of Josephus.

[12] By this great victory over the Idameans or Edomites, the posterity of Esau, and by the
consequent tribute paid by that nation to the Jews, were the prophecies delivered to Rebecca
before Jacob and Esau were born, and by old Isaac before his death, that the elder, Esau, [or
the Edomites,] should serve and the younger, Jacob, [or the Israelites,] and Jacob [or the
Israelites] should be Esau's [or the Edomites'] lord, remarkably fulfilled. See Antiq. B. VIII.
ch 7. sect. 6; Genesis 25;9,3; and the notes on Antiq. B. I. ch. 18. sect. 5, 6.

[13] That a talent of gold was about seven pounds weight, see the description of the temple
ch. 13. Nor could Josephus well estimate it higher, since he here says that David wore it on
his head perpetually. If he saw them, as is most probable he did, he certainly expounded them
of tormenting these Ammonites to death, who were none of those seven nations of Canaan whose
wickedness had rendered them incapable of mercy; otherwise I should be inclinable to think
that the meaning, at least as the words are in Samuel, might only be this: That they were made
the lowest slaves, to work in sawing of timber or stone, in harrowing the fields, in hewing
timber, in making and burning bricks, and the like hard services, but without taking away their
lives. We never elsewhere, that I remember, meet with such methods of cruelty in putting men
to death in all the Bible, or in any other ancient history whatsoever; nor do the words in
Samuel seem naturally to refer to any such thing.

[15] Of this weight of Absalom's hair, how in twenty or thirty years it might well amount to
two hundred shekels, or to somewhat above six pounds avoirdupois, see the Literal Accomplishment
of Prophecies, p. 77, 78. But a late very judicious author thinks that the LXXX. meant not
its weight, but its value, Was twenty shekels.--Dr. Wall's Critical Notes on the Old Testament,
upon 2 Samuel 14:26. It does not appear what was Josephus's opinion: he sets the text down
honestly as he found it in his copies, only he thought that "at the end of days," when Absalom
polled or weighed his hair, was once a week.

[16] This is one of the best corrections that Josephus's copy affords us of a text that in
our ordinary copies is grossly corrupted. They say that this rebellion of Absalom was forty
years after what went before, [of his reconciliation to his father,] whereas the series of
the history shows it could not be more than four years after it, as here in Josephus; whose
number is directly confirmed by that copy of the Septuagint version whence the Armenian translation
was made, which gives us the small number of four years.

[17] This reflection of Josephus's, that God brought to nought the dangerous counsel of Ahithophel,
and directly infatuated wicked Absalom to reject it, [which infatuation is what the Scripture
styles the judicial hardening the hearts and blinding the eyes of men, who, by their former
voluntary wickedness, have justly deserved to be destroyed, and are thereby brought to destruction,]
is a very just one, and in him not unfrequent. Nor does Josephus ever puzzle himself, or perplex
his readers, with subtle hypotheses as to the manner of such judicial infatuations by God,
while the justice of them is generally so obvious. That peculiar manner of the Divine operations,
or permissions, or the means God makes use of in such cases, is often impenetrable by us. "Secret
things belong to the Lord our God; but those things that are revealed belong to us, and to
our children for ever, that we may do all the words of this law," Deuteronomy 29:29. Nor have
all the subtleties of the moderns, as far as I see, given any considerable light in this, and
many other the like points of difficulty relating either to Divine or human operations.--See
the notes on Antiq. B. V ch. 1. sect. 2; and Antiq. B. IX. ch. 4. sect. 3.

[18] Those that take a view of my description of the gates of the temple, will not be surprised
at this account of David's throne, both here and 2 Samuel 18:21, that it was between two gates
or portals. Gates being in cities, as well as at the temple, large open places, with a portal
at the entrance, and another at the exit, between which judicial causes were heard, and public
consultations taken, as is well known from several places of Scripture, 2 Chronicles 31:2;
Psalm 9:14; 137:5; Proverbs 1:21; 8:3, 31; 31:23, and often elsewhere.

[19] Since David was now in Mahanairn, and in the open place of that city gate, which seems
still to have been built the highest of any part of the wall, and since our other copies say
he went up to the chamber over the gate, 2 Samuel 18:33, I think we ought to correct our present
reading in Josephus, and for city, should read gate, i.e. instead of the highest part of the
city, should say the highest part of the gate. Accordingly we find David presently, in Josephus,
as well as in our other copies, 2 Samuel 19:8, sitting as before, in the gate of the city.

[20] By David's disposal of half Mephibosheth's estate to Ziba, one would imagine that he was
a good deal dissatisfied, and doubtful whether Mephibosheth's story were entirely true or not;
nor does David now invite him to diet with him, as he did before, but only forgives him, if
he had been at all guilty. Nor is this odd way of mourning that Mephibosheth made use of here,
and 2 Samuel 19:24, wholly free from suspicion by hypocrisy. If Ziba neglected or refused to
bring Mephibosheh an ass of his own, on which he might ride to David, it is half to suppose
that so great a man as he was should not be able to procure some other beast for the same purpose.

[21] I clearly prefer Josephus's reading here, when it supposes eleven tribes, including Benjamin,
to be on the one side, and the tribe of Judah alone on the other, since Benjamin, in general,
had been still father of the house of Saul, and less firm to David hitherto, than any of the
rest, and so cannot be supposed to be joined with Judah at this time, to make it double, especially
when the following rebellion was headed by a Benjamite. See sect. 6, and 2 Samuel 20:2, 4.

[22] This section is a very remarkable one, and shows that, in the opinion of Josephus, David
composed the Book of Psalms, not at several times before, as their present inscriptions frequently
imply, but generally at the latter end of his life, or after his wars were over. Nor does Josephus,
nor the authors of the known books of the Old and New Testament, nor the Apostolical Constitutions,
seem to have ascribed any of them to any other author than to David himself. See Essay on the
Old Testament, pages 174, 175. Of these metres of the Psalms, see the note on Antiq. B. II.
ch. 16. sect. 4.

[23] The words of God by Moses, Exodus 30:12, sufficiently satisfy the reason here given by
Josephus for the great plague mentioned in this chapter:--"When thou takest the sum of the
children of Israel after their number, then shall they give a ransom for his soul unto the
Lord, when thou numberest them; that there be no plague amongst them, when numberest them."
Nor indeed could David's or the neglect of executing this law at this numeration of half a
shekel apiece with them, when they came numbered. The great reason why nations are so committed
by and with their wicked kings and governors that they almost constantly comply with them in
their of or disobedience to the Divine laws, and suffer Divine laws to go into disuse or contempt,
in order to kings and governors; and that they sub-political laws and commands of those governors,
instead of the righteous laws of God, which all mankind ought ever to obey, let their kings
and governors say what they please to the contrary; this preference of human before Divine
laws seeming to me the principal character of idolatrous or antichristian nations. Accordingly,
Josephus well observes, Antiq. B. IV. ch. 8. sect. 17, that it was the duty of the people of
Israel to take care that their kings, when they should have them, did not exceed their proper
limits of power, and prove ungovernable by the laws of God, which would certainly be a most
pernicious thing to their Divine settlement. Nor do I think that negligence peculiar to the
Jews: those nations which are called Christians, are sometimes indeed very solicitous to restrain
their kings and governors from breaking the human laws of their several kingdoms, but without
the like care for restraining them from breaking the laws of God. "Whether it be right in the
sight of God to hearken unto men more than to God, judge ye," Acts 4:19. "We ought to obey
God rather than men," ver. 29.

[24] What Josephus adds here is very remarkable, that this Mount Moriah was not only the very
place where Abraham offered up Isaac long ago, but that God had foretold to David by a prophet,
that here his son should build him a temple, which is not directly in any of our other copies,
though very agreeable to what is in them, particularly in 1 Chronicles 21:25, 28; 22:1, to
which places I refer the reader.

[25] Of the quantity of gold and silver expended in the building of Solomon's temple, and whence
it arose, see the description of ch. 13. [26] David is here greatly blamed by some for recommending
Joab and Shimei to be punished by Solomon, if he could find a proper occasion, after he had
borne with the first a long while, and seemed to have pardoned the other entirely, which Solomon
executed accordingly; yet I cannot discern any fault either in David or Solomon in these cases.
Joab's murder of Abner and Amasa were very barbarous, and could not properly be forgiven either
by David or Solomon; for a dispensing power in kings for the crime of willful murder is warranted
by no law of God, nay, is directly against it every where; nor is it, for certain, in the power
of men to grant such a prerogative to any of their kings; though Joab was so nearly related
to David, and so potent in the army under a warlike administration, that David durst not himself
put him to death, 2 Samuel 3:39; 19:7. Shimei's cursing the Lord's anointed, and this without
any just cause, was the highest act of treason against God and his anointed king, and justly
deserved death; and though David could forgive treason against himself, yet had he done no
more in the case of Shimei than promised him that he would not then, on the day of his return
and reinauguration, or upon that occasion, himself put him to death, 2 Samuel 19:22; and he
swore to him no further, ver. 23, as the words are in Josephus, than that he would not then
put him to death, which he performed; nor was Solomon under any obligation to spare such a traitor.

BOOK 8 FOOTNOTES

[1] This execution upon Joab, as a murderer, by slaying him, even when he had taken sanctuary
at God's altar, is perfectly agreeable to the law of Moses, which enjoins, that "if a man come
presumptuously upon his neighbor to slay him with guile, thou shalt take him from mine altar
that he die," Exodus 21:14.

[2] This building of the walls of Jerusalem, soon after David's death, illustrates the conclusion
of the 51st Psalm, where David prays, "Build thou the walls of Jerusalem;" they being, it seems,
unfinished or imperfect at that time. See ch. 6. sect. 1; and ch. 1. sect. 7; also 1 Kings 9:15.

[3] It may not be amiss to compare the daily furniture of king Solomon's table, here set down,
and 1 Kings 4;22, 23, with the like daily furniture of Nehemiah the governor's table, after
the Jews were come back from Babylon; and to remember withal, that Nehemiah was now building
the walls of Jerusalem, and maintained, more than usual, above a hundred and fifty considerable
men every day, and that, because the nation was then very poor, at his own charges also, without
laying any burden upon the people at all. 14-19. Nor did the governor's usual allowance of
forty shekels of silver a-day, ver. 15, amount to 45 a day, nor to 1800 a-year. Nor does it
indeed appear that, under the judges, or under Samuel the prophet, there was any such public
allowance to those governors at all. Those great charges upon the public for maintaining courts
came in with kings, as God foretold they would, 1 Samuel 8:11-18. [4] Some pretended fragments
of these books of conjuration of Solomon are still extant in Fabricius's Cod. Pseudepigr. Vet.
Test. page 1054, though I entirely differ from Josephus in this his supposal, that such books
and arts of Solomon were parts of that wisdom which was imparted to him by God in his younger
days; they must rather have belonged to such profane but curious arts as we find mentioned
Acts 19:13-20, and had been derived from the idolatry and superstition of his heathen wives
and concubines in his old age, when he had forsaken God, and God had forsaken him, and given
him up to demoniacal delusions. Nor does Josephus's strange account of the root Baara [Of the
War, B. VIII. ch. 6. sect. 3] seem to be other than that of its magical use in such conjurations.
As for the following history, it confirms what Christ says, Matthew 12;27 "If I by Beelzebub
cast out demons, by whom do your Sons cast them out?"

[5] These epistles of Solomon and Hiram are those in 1 Kings 5:3-9, and, as enlarged, in 2
Chronicles 2:3-16, but here given us by Josephus in his own words.

[6] What Josephus here puts into his copy of Hiram's epistle to Solomon, and repeats afterwards,
ch. 5. sect. 3, that Tyre was now an island, is not in any of the three other copies, viz.
that of the Kings, Chronicles, or Eusebius; nor is it any other, I suppose, than his own conjectural
paraphrase; for when I, many years ago, inquired into this matter, I found the state of this
famous city, and of the island whereupon it stood, to have been very different at different
times. The result of my inquiries in this matter, with the addition of some later improvements,
stands thus: That the best testimonies hereto relating, imply, that Paketyrus, or Oldest Tyre,
was no other than that most ancient smaller fort or city Tyre, situated on the continent, and
mentioned in Joshua 19:29, out of which the Canaanite or Phoenician inhabitants were driven
into a large island, that lay not far off in the sea, by Joshua: that this island was then
joined to the continent at the present remains of Paketyrus, by a neck of land over against
Solomon's cisterns, still so called; and the city's fresh water, probably, was carried along
in pipes by that neck of land; and that this island was therefore, in strictness, no other
than a peninsula, having villages in its fields, Ezekiel 26:6, and a wall about it, Amos 1:10,
and the city was not of so great reputation as Sitlon for some ages: that it was attacked both
by sea and land by Salmanasser, as Josephus informs us, Antiq. B. IX. ch. 14. sect. 2, and
afterwards came to be the metropolis of Phoenicia; and was afterwards taken and destroyed by
Nebuchadnezzar, according to the numerous Scripture prophecies thereto relating, Isaiah 23.;
Jeremiah 25:22; 27:3; 47:4; Ezekiel 26., 27., 28.: that seventy years after that destruction
by Nebuchadnezzar, this city was in some measure revived and rebuilt, Isaiah 23:17, 18, but
that, as the prophet Ezekiel had foretold, chap. 26:3-5, 14; 27: 34, the sea arose higher than
before, till at last it over flowed, not only the neck of land, but the main island or peninsula
itself, and destroyed that old and famous city for ever: that, however, there still remained
an adjoining smaller island, once connected to Old Tyre itself by Hiram, which was afterwards
inhabited; to which Alexander the Great, with incredible pains, raised a new bank or causeway:
and that it plainly appears from Ifaundreh, a most authentic eye-witness, that the old large
and famous city, on the original large island, is now laid so generally under water, that scarce
more than forty acres of it, or rather of that adjoining small island remain at this day; so
that, perhaps, not above a hundredth part of the first island and city is now above water.

[7] Of the temple of Solomon here described by Josephus, in this and the following sections
of this chapter, see my description of the temples belonging to this work, ch. 13, These small
rooms, or side chambers, seem to have been, by Josephus's description, no less than twenty
cubits high a piece, otherwise there must have been a large interval between one and the other
that was over it; and this with double floors, the one of six cubits distance from the floor
beneath it, as 1 Kings 6:5

[8] Josephus says here that the cherubims were of solid gold, and only five cubits high, while
our Hebrew copies [1 Kings 6;23, 28] say they were of the olive tree, and the LXXX. of the
cypress tree, and only overlaid with gold; and both agree they were ten cubits high. I suppose
the number here is falsely transcribed, and that Josephus wrote ten cubits also.

[9] As for these two famous pillars, Jachin and Booz, their height could be no more than eighteen
cubits, as here, and 1 Kings 7:15; 2 Kings 25:17; Jeremiah 3:21; those thirty-five cubits in
2 Chronicles 3:15, being contrary to all the rules of architecture in the world.

[10] The round or cylindrical lavers of four cubits in diameter, and four in height, both in
our copies, 1 Kings 7:38, 39, and here in Josephus, must have contained a great deal more than
these forty baths, which are always assigned them. Where the error lies is hard to say: perhaps
Josephus honestly followed his copies here, though they had been corrupted, and he was not
able to restore the true reading. In the mean time, the forty baths are probably the true quantity
contained in each laver, since they went upon wheels, and were to be drawn by the Levites about
the courts of the priests for the washings they were designed for; and had they held much more,
they would have been too heavy to have been so drawn.

[11] Here Josephus gives us a key to his own language, of right and left hand in the tabernacle
and temple; that by the right hand he means what is against our left, when we suppose ourselves
going up from the east gate of the courts towards the tabernacle or temple themselves, and
so vice versa; whence it follows, that the pillar Jachin, on the right hand of the temple was
on the south, against our left hand; and Booz on the north, against our right hand. Of the
golden plate on the high priest's forehead that was in being in the days of Josephus, and a
century or two at least later, seethe note on Antiq. B. III. ch. 7. sect. 6.

[12] When Josephus here says that the floor of the outmost temple or court of the Gentiles
was with vast labor raised to be even, or of equal height, with the floor of the inner, or
court of the priests, he must mean this in a gross estimation only; for he and all others agree,
that the inner temple, or court of the priests, was a few cubits more elevated than the middle
court, the court of Israel, and that much more was the court of the priests elevated several
cubits above that outmost court, since the court of Israel was lower than the one and higher
than the other. The Septuagint say that "they prepared timber and stones to build the temple
for three years," 1 Kings 5:18; and although neither our present Hebrew copy, nor Josephus,
directly name that number of years, yet do they both say the building itself did not begin
till Solomon's fourth year; and both speak of the preparation of materials beforehand, 1 Kings
v. 18; Antiq. B. VIII. ch. 5. sect. 1. There is no reason, therefore, to alter the Septuagint's
number; but we are to suppose three years to have been the just time of the preparation, as
I have done in my computation of the expense in building that temple.

[13] This solemn removal of the ark from Mount Sion to Mount Moriah, at the distance of almost
three quarters of a mile, confutes that notion of the modern Jews, and followed by many Christians
also, as if those two were after a sort one and the same mountain, for which there is, I think,
very little foundation.

[14] This mention of the Corinthian ornaments of architecture in Solomon's palace by Josephus
seems to be here set down by way of prophecy although it appears to me that the Grecian and
Roman most ancient orders of architecture were taken from Solomon's temple, as from their original
patterns, yet it is not so clear that the last and most ornamental order of the Corinthian
was so ancient, although what the same Josephus says, [Of the War, B. V. ch. 5. sect. 3,] that
one of the gates of Herod's temple was built according to the rules of this Corinthian order,
is no way improbable, that order being, without dispute, much older than the reign of Herod.
However, upon some trial, I confess I have not hitherto been able fully to understand the structure
of this palace of Solomon, either as described in our Bibles, or even with the additional help
of this description here by Josephus; only the reader may easily observe with me, that the
measures of this first building in Josephus, a hundred cubits long, and fifty cubits broad,
are the very same with the area of the cart of the tabernacle of Moses, and just hall' an Egyptian
orout, or acre.

[15] This signification of the name Pharaoh appears to be true. But what Josephus adds presently,
that no king of Egypt was called Pharaoh after Solomon's father-in-law, does hardly agree to
our copies, which have long afterwards the names of Pharaoh Neehob, and Pharaoh Hophrah, 2
Kings 23:29; Jeremiah 44:30, besides the frequent mention of that name Pharaoh in the prophets.
However, Josephus himself, in his own speech to the Jews, Of the War, B. V. ch. 9. sect. 4,
speaks of Neehao, who was also called Pharaoh, as the name of that king of Egypt with whom
Abraham was concerned; of which name Neehao yet we have elsewhere no mention till the days
of Josiah, but only of Pharaoh. And, indeed, it must be conceded, that here, and sect. 5, we
have more mistakes made by Josephus, and those relating to the kings of Egypt, and to that
queen of Egypt and Ethiopia, whom he supposes to have come to see Solomon, than almost any
where else in all his Antiquities.

[16] That this queen of Sheba was a queen of Sabea in South Arabia, and not of Egypt and Ethiopia,
as Josephus here asserts, is, I suppose, now generally agreed. And since Sabea is well known
to be a country near the sea in the south of Arabia Felix, which lay south from Judea also;
and since our Savior calls this queen, "the queen of the south," and says, "she came from the
utmost parts of the earth," Matthew 12:42; Luke 11:31, which descriptions agree better to this
Arabia than to Egypt and Ethiopia; there is little occasion for doubting in this matter.

[17] Some blame Josephus for supposing that the balsam tree might be first brought out of Arabia,
or Egypt, or Ethiopia, into Judea, by this queen of Sheba, since several have said that of
old no country bore this precious balsam but Judea; yet it is not only false that this balsam
was peculiar to Judea but both Egypt and Arabia, and particularly Sabea; had it; which last
was that very country whence Josephus, if understood not of Ethiopia, but of Arabia, intimates
this queen might bring it first into Judea. Nor are we to suppose that the queen of Sabaea
could well omit such a present as this balsam tree would be esteemed by Solomon, in case it
were then almost peculiar to her own country. Nor is the mention of balm or balsam, as carried
by merchants, and sent as a present out of Judea by Jacob, to the governor of Egypt, Genesis
37:25; 43:11, to be alleged to the contrary, since what we there render balm or balsam, denotes
rather that turpentine which we now call turpentine of Chio, or Cyprus, the juice of the turpentine
tree, than this precious balm. This last is also the same word that we elsewhere render by
the same mistake balm of Gilead; it should be rendered, the turpentine of Gilead, Jeremiah 8:22.

[18] Whether these fine gardens and rivulets of Etham, about six miles from Jerusalem, whither
Solomon rode so often in state, be not those alluded to, Ecclesiastes 2:5, 6, where he says,
"He made him gardens and orchards, and planted trees in them of all kinds of fruits: he made
him pools of water, to water the wood that bringeth forth trees;" and to the finest part whereof
he seems to allude, when, in the Canticles, he compares his spouse to a garden "enclosed,"
to a "spring shut up," to a "fountain sealed," ch. 4. 12 [part of which from rains are still
extant, as Mr. Matmdrell informs us, page 87, 88]; cannot now be certainly determined, but
may very probably be conjectured. But whether this Etham has any relation to those rivers of
Etham, which Providence once dried up in a miraculous manner, Psalm 74:15, in the Septuagint,
I cannot say.

[19] These seven hundred wives, or the daughters of great men, and the three hundred concubines,
the daughters of the ignoble, make one thousand in all; and are, I suppose, those very one
thousand women intimated elsewhere by Solomon himself, when he speaks of his not having found
one [good] woman among that very number, Ecclesiastes 7:28.

[20] Josephus is here certainly too severe upon Solomon, who, in making the cherubims, and
these twelve brazen oxen, seems to have done no more than imitate the patterns left him by
David, which were all given David by Divine inspiration. See my description of the temples,
ch. 10. And although God gave no direction for the lions that adorned his throne, yet does
not Solomon seem therein to have broken any law of Moses; for although the Pharisees and latter
Rabbins have extended the second commandment, to forbid the very making of any image, though
without any intention to have it worshipped, yet do not I suppose that Solomon so understood
it, nor that it ought to be so understood. The making any other altar for worship but that
at the tabernacle was equally forbidden by Moses, Antiq. B. IV. ch. 8. sect. 5; yet did not
the two tribes and a half offend when they made an altar for a memorial only, Joshua 22; Antiq.
B. V. ch. 1. sect. 26, 27.

[21] Since the beginning of Solomon's evil life and adversity was the time when Hadad or Ader,
who was born at least twenty or thirty years before Solomon came to the crown, in the days
of David, began to give him disturbance, this implies that Solomon's evil life began early,
and continued very long, which the multitude of his wives and concubines does imply also; I
suppose when he was not fifty years of age.

[22] This youth of Jeroboam, when Solomon built the walls of righteous and keep the laws, because
he hath proposed to thee the greatest of all rewards for thy piety, and the honor thou shalt
pay to God, namely, to be as greatly exalted as thou knowest David to have been." Jerusalem,
not very long after he had finished his twenty years building of the temple and his own palace,
or not very long after the twenty-fourth of his reign, 1 Kings 9:24; 2 Chronicles 8:11, and
his youth here still mentioned, when Solomon's wickedness was become intolerable, fully confirm
my former observation, that such his wickedness began early, and continued very long. See Ecclus.
47:14.

[23] That by scorpions is not here meant that small animal so called, which was never used
in corrections, but either a shrub, furze bush, or else some terrible sort of whip of the like
nature see Hudson's and Spanheim's notes here.

[24] Whether these "fountains of the Lesser Jordan" were near a place called Dan, and the fountains
of the Greater near a place called Jor, before their conjunction; or whether there was only
one fountain, arising at the lake Phiala, at first sinking under ground, and then arising near
the mountain Paneum, and thence running through the lake Scmochonitis to the Sea of Galilee,
and so far called the Lesser Jordan; is hardly certain, even in Josephus himself, though the
latter account be the most probable. However, the northern idolatrous calf, set up by Jeroboam,
was where Little Jordan fell into Great Jordan, near a place called Daphnae, as Josephus elsewhere
informs us, Of the War, B. IV. ch. 1. sect. 1: see the note there.

[25] How much a larger and better copy Josephus had in this remarkable history of the true
prophet of Judea, and his concern with Jeroboam, and with the false prophet of Bethel, than
our other copies have, is evident at first sight. The prophet's very name, Jadon, or, as the
Constitutions call him, Adonias, is wanting in our other copies; and it is there, with no little
absurdity, said that God revealed Jadon the true prophet's death, not to himself as here, but
to the false prophet. Whether the particular account of the arguments made use of, after all,
by the false prophet against his own belief and his own conscience, in order to persuade Jeroboam
to persevere in his idolatry and wickedness, than which more plausible could not be invented,
was intimated in Josephus's copy, or in some other ancient book, cannot now be determined;
our other copies say not one word of it.

[26] That this Shishak was not the same person with the famous Sesostris, as some have very
lately, in contradiction to all antiquity, supposed, and that our Josephus did not take him
to be the same, as they pretend, but that Sesostris was many centuries earlier than Shishak,
see Authent. Records, part II. page 1024.

[27] Herodotus, as here quoted by Josephus, and as this passage still stands in his present
copies, B. II. ch. 14., affirms, that "the Phoenicians and Syrians in Palestine [which last
are generally supposed to denote the Jews] owned their receiving circumcision from the Egyptians;"
whereas it is abundantly evident that the Jews received their circumcision from the patriarch
Abraham, Genesis 17:9-14; John 7:22, 23, as I conclude the Egyptian priests themselves did
also. It is not therefore very unlikely that Herodotus, because the Jews had lived long in
Egypt, and came out of it circumcised, did thereupon think they had learned that circumcision
in Egypt, and had it not broke. Manetho, the famous Egyptian chronologer and historian, who
knew the history of his own country much better than Herodotus, complains frequently of his
mistakes about their affairs, as does Josephus more than once in this chapter. Nor indeed does
Herodotus seem at all acquainted with the affairs of the Jews; for as he never names them,
so little or nothing of what he says about them, their country, or maritime cities, two of
which he alone mentions, Cadytus and Jenysus, proves true; nor indeed do there appear to have
ever been any such cities on their coast.

[28] This is a strange expression in Josephus, that God is his own workmanship, or that he
made himself, contrary to common sense and to catholic Christianity; perhaps he only means
that he was not made by one, but was unoriginated.

[29] By this terrible and perfectly unparalleled slaughter of five hundred thousand men of
the newly idolatrous and rebellious ten tribes, God's high displeasure and indignation against
that idolatry and rebellion fully appeared; the remainder were thereby seriously cautioned
not to persist in them, and a kind of balance or equilibrium was made between the ten and the
two tribes for the time to come; while otherwise the perpetually idolatrous and rebellious
ten tribes would naturally have been too powerful for the two tribes, which were pretty frequently
free both from such idolatry and rebellion; nor is there any reason to doubt of the truth of
the prodigious number upmost: signal an occasion.

[30] The reader is to remember that Cush is not Ethiopia, but Arabia. See Bochart, B. IV. ch. 2.

[31] Here is a very great error in our Hebrew copy in this place, 2 Chronicles 15:3-6, as applying
what follows to times past, and not to times future; whence that text is quite misapplied by
Sir Isaac Newton.

[32] This Abelmain, or, in Josephus's copy, Abellane, that belonged to the land of Israel,
and bordered on the country of Damascus, is supposed, both by Hudson and Spanheim, to be the
same with Abel, or Ahila, whence came Abilene. This may be that city so denominated from Abel
the righteous, there buried, concerning the shedding of whose blood within the compass of the
land of Israel, I understand our Savior's words about the fatal war and overthrow of Judea
by Titus and his Roman army; "That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the
land, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zacharias son of Barnchins, whom ye
slew between the temple and the altar. Verily, I say unto you, all these things shall come
upon this generation," Matthew 23;35, 36; Luke 11:51.

[33] Josephus, in his present copies, says, that a little while rain upon the earth; whereas,
in our other copies, it is after many days, 1 Kings 18:1. Several years are also intimated
there, and in Josephus, sect. 2, as belonging to this drought and famine; nay, we have the
express mention of the third year, which I suppose was reckoned from the recovery of the widow's
son, and the ceasing of this drought in Phmuiela [which, as Menander informs us here, lasted
one whole year]; and both our Savior and St. James affirm, that this drought lasted in all
three years and six months, as their copies of the Old Testament then informed them, Luke 4:25;
James 5:17. Josephus here seems to mean, that this drought affected all the habitable earth,
and presently all the earth, as our Savior says it was upon all the earth, Luke 4:25. They
who restrain these expressions to the land of Judea alone, go without sufficient authority
or examples.

[34] Mr. Spanheim takes notice here, that in the worship of Mithra [the god of the Persians]
the priests cut themselves in the same manner as did these priests in their invocation of Baal
[the god of the Phoenicians].

[35] For Izar we may here read [with Hudson and Cocceius] Isachar, i.e of the tribe of Isachar,
for to that tribe did Jezreel belong; and presently at the beginning of sect. 8, as also ch.
15. sect. 4, we may read for Iar, with one MS. nearly, and the Scripture, Jezreel, for that
was the city meant in the history of Naboth.

[36] "The Jews weep to this day," [says Jerome, here cited by Reland,] "and roll themselves
upon sackcloth, in ashes, barefoot, upon such occasions." To which Spanheim adds, "that after
the same manner Bernice, when his life was in danger, stood at the tribunal of Florus barefoot."
Of the War, B. II. ch. 15. sect. 1. See the like of David, 2 Samuel 15:30; Antiq. B. VII. ch.
9. sect. 2.

[37] Mr. Reland notes here very truly, that the word naked does not always signify entirely
naked, but sometimes without men's usual armor, without heir usual robes or upper garments;
as when Virgil bids the husbandman plough naked, and sow naked; when Josephus says [Antiq.
B. IV. ch. 3. sect. 2] that God had given the Jews the security of armor when they were naked;
and when he here says that Ahab fell on the Syrians when they were naked and drunk; when [Antiq.
B. XI. ch. 5. sect. 8] he says that Nehemiah commanded those Jews that were building the walls
of Jerusalem to take care to have their armor on upon occasion, that the enemy might not fall
upon them naked. I may add, that the case seems to be the same in the Scripture, when it says
that Saul lay down naked among the prophets, 1 Samuel 19:24; when it says that Isaiah walked
naked and barefoot, Isaiah 20:2, 3; and when it says that Peter, before he girt his fisher's
coat to him, was naked, John 21:7. What is said of David also gives light to this, who was
reproached by Michal for "dancing before the ark, and uncovering himself in the eyes of his
handmaids, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself," 2 Samuel 6:14, 20; yet
it is there expressly said [ver. 14] that "David was girded with a linen ephod," i.e. he had
laid aside his robes of state, and put on the sacerdotal, Levitical, or sacred garments, proper
for such a solemnity.

[38] Josephus's number, two myriads and seven thousand, agrees here with that in our other
copies, as those that were slain by the falling down of the walls of Aphek; but I suspected
at first that this number in Josephus's present copies could not be his original number, because
he calls them "oligoi," a few, which could hardly be said of so many as twenty-seven thousand,
and because of the improbability of the fall of a particular wall killing so many; yet when
I consider Josephus's next words, how the rest which were slain in the battle were "ten other
myriads," that twenty-seven thousand are but a few in comparison of a hundred thousand, and
that it was not "a wall," as in our English version, but "the walls" or "the entire walls"
of the city that fell down, as in all the originals, I lay aside that suspicion, and firmly
believe that Josephus himself hath, with the rest, given us the just number, twenty-seven thousand.

[39] This manner of supplication for men's lives among the Syrians, with ropes or halters about
their heads or necks, is, I suppose, no strange thing in later ages, even in our own country.

[40] It is here remarkable, that in Josephus's copy this prophet, whose severe denunciation
of a disobedient person's slaughter by a lion had lately come to pass, was no other than Micaiah,
the son of Imlah, who, as he now denounced God's judgment on disobedient Ahab, seems directly
to have been that very prophet whom the same Ahab, in 1 Kings 22:8, 18, complains of, "as one
whom he hated, because he did not prophesy good concerning him, but evil," and who in that
chapter openly repeats his denunciations against him; all which came to pass accordingly; nor
is there any reason to doubt but this and the former were the very same prophet.

[41] What is most remarkable in this history, and in many histories on other occasions in the
Old Testament, is this, that during the Jewish theocracy God acted entirely as the supreme
King of Israel, and the supreme General of their armies, and always expected that the Israelites
should be in such absolute subjection to him, their supreme and heavenly King, and General
of their armies, as subjects and soldiers are to their earthly kings and generals, and that
usually without knowing the particular reasons of their injunctions.

[42] These reasonings of Zedekiah the false prophet, in order to persuade Ahab not to believe
Micaiah the true prophet, are plausible; but being omitted in our other copies, we cannot now
tell whence Josephus had them, whether from his own temple copy, from some other original author,
or from certain ancient notes. That some such plausible objection was now raised against Micaiah
is very likely, otherwise Jehoshaphat, who used to disbelieve all such false prophets, could
never have been induced to accompany Ahab in these desperate circumstances.

[43] This reading of Josephus, that Jehoshaphat put on not his own, but Ahab's robes, in order
to appear to be Ahab, while Ahab was without any robes at all, and hoped thereby to escape
his own evil fate, and disprove Micaiah's prophecy against him, is exceeding probable. It gives
great light also to this whole history; and shows, that although Ahab hoped Jehoshaphat would
be mistaken for him, and run the only risk of being slain in the battle, yet he was entirely
disappointed, while still the escape of the good man Jehoshaphat, and the slaughter of the
bad man Ahab, demonstrated the great distinction that Divine providence made betwixt them.

[44] We have here a very wise reflection of Josephus about Divine Providence, and what is derived
from it, prophecy, and the inevitable certainty of its accomplishment; and that when wicked
men think they take proper methods to elude what is denounced against them, and to escape the
Divine judgments thereby threatened them, without repentance, they are ever by Providence infatuated
to bring about their own destruction, and thereby withal to demonstrate the perfect veracity
of that God whose predictions they in vain endeavored to elude.

BOOK 9 FOOTNOTES

[1] These judges constituted by Jehoshaphat were a kind of Jerusalem Sanhedrim, out of the
priests, the Levites, and the principal of the people, both here and 2 Chronicles 19:8; much
like the old Christian judicatures of the bishop, the presbyters, the deacons, and the people.

[2] Concerning this precious balsam, see the note on Atiq. B. VIII. ch. 6. sect. 6.

[3] What are here Pontus and Thrace, as the places whither Jehoshaphat's fleet sailed, are
in our other copies Ophir and Tarshish, and the place whence it sailed is in them Eziongeber,
which lay on the Red Sea, whence it was impossible for any ships to sail to Pontus or Thrace;
so that Josephus's copy differed from our other copies, as is further plain from his own words,
which render what we read, that "the ships were broken at Eziongeber, from their unwieldy greatness."
But so far we may conclude, that Josephus thought one Ophir to be some where in the Mediterranean,
and not in the South Sea, though perhaps there might be another Ophir in that South Sea also,
and that fleets might then sail both from Phoenicia and from the Red Sea to fetch the gold
of Ophir.

[4] This god of flies seems to have been so called, as was the like god among the Greeks, from
his supposed power over flies, in driving them away from the flesh of their sacrifices, which
otherwise would have been very troublesome to them.

[5] It is commonly esteemed a very cruel action of Elijah, when he called for fire from heaven,
and consumed no fewer than two captains and a hundred soldiers, and this for no other crime
than obeying the orders of their king, in attempting to seize him; and it is owned by our Savior,
that it was an instance of greater severity than the spirit of the New Testament allows, Luke
9:54. But then we must consider that it is not unlikely that these captains and soldiers believed
that they were sent to fetch the prophet, that he might be put to death for foretelling the
death of the king, and this while they knew him to be the prophet of the true God, the supreme
King of Israel, [for they were still under the theocracy,] which was no less than impiety,
rebellion, and treason, in the highest degree: nor would the command of a subaltern, or inferior
captain, contradicting the commands of the general, when the captain and the soldiers both
knew it to be so, as I suppose, justify or excuse such gross rebellion and disobedience in
soldiers at this day. Accordingly, when Saul commanded his guards to slay Ahimelech and the
priests at Nob, they knew it to be an unlawful command, and would not obey it, 1 Samuel 22:17.
From which cases both officers and soldiers may learn, that the commands of their leaders or
kings cannot justify or excuse them in doing what is wicked in the sight of God, or in fighting
in an unjust cause, when they know it so to be.

[6] This practice of cutting down, or plucking up by the roots, the fruit trees was forbidden,
even in ordinary wars, by the law of Moses, Deuteronomy 20:19, 20, and only allowed by God
in this particular case, when the Moabites were to be punished and cut off in an extraordinary
manner for their wickedness See Jeremiah 48:11-13, and many the like prophecies against them.
Nothing could therefore justify this practice but a particular commission from God by his prophet,
as in the present case, which was ever a sufficient warrant for breaking any such ritual or
ceremonial law whatsoever.

[7] That this woman who cried to Elisha, and who in our Bible is styled "the wife of one of
the sons of the prophets," 2 Kings 4:1, was no other than the widow of Obadiah, the good steward
of Ahab, is confirmed by the Chaldee paraphrast, and by the Rabbins and others. Nor is that
unlikely which Josephus here adds, that these debts were contracted by her husband for the
support of those "hundred of the Lord's prophets, whom he maintained by fifty in a cave," in
the days of Ahab and Jezebel, 1 Kings 18:4; which circumstance rendered it highly fit that
the prophet Elisha should provide her a remedy, and enable her to redeem herself and her sons
from the fear of that slavery which insolvent debtors were liable to by the law of Moses, Leviticus
25:39; Matthew 18:25; which he did accordingly, with God's help, at the expense of a miracle.

[8] Dr. Hudson, with very good reason, suspects that there is no small defect in our present
copies of Josephus, just before the beginning of this section, and that chiefly as to that
distinct account which he had given us reason to expect in the first section, and to which
he seems to refer, ch. 8. sect. 6. concerning the glorious miracles which Elisha wrought, which
indeed in our Bibles are not a few, 2 Kings 6-9., but of which we have several omitted in Josephus's
present copies. One of those histories, omitted at present, was evidently in his Bible, I mean
that of the curing of Nanman's leprosy, 2 Kings 5.; for he plainly alludes to it, B. III. ch.
11. sect. But what makes me most regret the want of that history in our present copies of Josephus
is this, that we have here, as it is commonly understood, one of the greatest difficulties
in all the Bible, that in 2 Kings 5:18, 19, where Naaman, after he had been miraculously cured
by a prophet of the true God, and had thereupon promised [ver. And Elisha said, Go in peace."
This looks like a prophet's permission for being partaker in idolatry itself, out of compliance
with an idolatrous court.

[9] Upon occasion of this stratagem of Elisha, in Josephus, we may take notice, that although
Josephus was one of the greatest lovers of truth in the world, yet in a just war he seems to
have had no manner of scruple upon him by all such stratagems possible to deceive public enemies.
See this Josephus's account of Jeremiah's imposition on the great men of the Jews in somewhat
like case, Antiq. B. X. ch. 7. sect. 6; 2 Samuel 16:16, &c.

[10] This son of a murderer was Joram, the son of Ahab, which Ahab slew, or permitted his wife
Jezebel to slay, the Lord's prophets, and Naboth, 1 Kings 18:4; 21:19; and he is here called
by this name, I suppose, because he had now also himself sent an officer to murder him; yet
is Josephus's account of Joram's coming himself at last as repenting of his intended cruelty,
much more probable than that in our copies, 2 Kings 6:33, which rather implies the contrary.

[11] This law of the Jews, for the exclusion of lepers out of the camp in the wilderness, and
out of the cities in Judea, is a known one, Leviticus 13:46; Numbers 5:14.

[12] Since Elijah did not live to anoint Hazael king of Syria himself, as he was empowered
to do, 1 Kings 19:15, it was most probably now done, in his name, by his servant and successor
Elisha. Nor does it seem to me otherwise but that Benhadad immediately recovered of his disease,
as the prophet foretold; and that Hazael, upon his being anointed to succeed him though he
ought to have staid till he died by the course of nature, or some other way of Divine punishment,
as did David for many years in the like case, was too impatient, and the very next day smothered
or strangled him, in order to come directly to the succession.

[13] What Mr. Le Clerc pretends here, that it is more probable that Hazael and his son were
worshipped by the Syrians and people of Damascus till the days of Josephus, than Benhadad and
Hazael, because under Benhadad they had greatly suffered, and because it is almost incredible
that both a king and that king's murderer should be worshipped by the same Syrians, is of little
force against those records, out of which Josephus drew this history, especially when it is
likely that they thought Benhadad died of the distemper he labored under, and not by Hazael's
treachery. Besides, the reason that Josephus gives for this adoration, that these two kings
had been great benefactors to the inhabitants of Damascus, and had built them temples, is too
remote from the political suspicions of Le Clerc; nor ought such weak suspicions to be deemed
of any force against authentic testimonies of antiquity.

[14] This epistle, in some copies of Josephus, is said to come to Jotare from Elijah, with
this addition," for he was yet upon earth," which could not be true of Elijah, who, as all
agree, was gone from the earth about four years before, and could only be true of Elisha; nor
perhaps is there any more mystery here, than that the name of Elijah has very anciently crept
into the text instead of Elisha, by the copiers, there being nothing in any copy of that epistle
peculiar to Elijah.

[15] Spanheim here notes, that this putting off men's garments, and strewing them under a king,
was an Eastern custom, which he had elsewhere explained.

[16] Our copies say that this "driving of the chariots was like the driving of Jehu the son
of Nimshi; for he driveth furiously," 2 Kings 9:20; whereas Josephus's copy, as he understood
it, was this, that, on the contrary, Jehu marched slowly, and in good order. Nor can it be
denied, that since there was interval enough for king Joram to send out two horsemen, one after
another, to Jehu, and at length to go out with king Ahaziah to meet him, and all this after
he was come within sight of the watchman, and before he was come to Jezreel, the probability
is greatly on the side of Josephus's copy or interpretation. Which copies are here the truest
it is hard positively to determine. If Josephus's be true, this Joash is the single instance
of a good king over the ten tribes; if the other be true, we have not one such example. The
account that follows, in all copies, of Elisha the prophet's concern for him, and his concern
for Elisha, greatly favors Josephus's copies, and supposes this king to have been then a good
man, and no idolater, with whom God's prophets used not to be so familiar. Upon the whole,
since it appears, even by Josephus's own account, that Amaziah, the good king of Judah, while
he was a good king, was forbidden to make use of the hundred thousand auxiliaries he had hired
of this Joash, the king of Israel, as if he and they were then idolaters, 2 Chronicles 25:6-9,
it is most likely that these different characters of Joash suited the different parts of his
reign, and that, according to our common copies, he was at first a wicked king, and afterwards
was reclaimed, and became a good one, according to Josephus.

[18] What I have above noted concerning Jehoash, seems to me to have been true also concerning
his son Jeroboam II., viz. that although he began wickedly, as Josephus agrees with our other
copies, and, as he adds, "was the cause of a vast number of misfortunes to the Israelites"
in those his first years, [the particulars of which are unhappily wanting both in Josephus
and in all our copies,] so does it seem to me that he was afterwards reclaimed, and became
a good king, and so was encouraged by the prophet Jonah, and had great successes afterward,
when "God had saved the Israelites by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Joash," 2 Kings 14:27;
which encouragement by Jonah, and great successes, are equally observable in Josephus, and
in the other copies.

[19] When Jonah is said in our Bibles to have gone to Tarshish, Jonah 1:3, Josephus understood
it that he went to Tarsus in Cilicia, or to the Mediterranean Sea, upon which Tarsus lay; so
that he does not appear to have read the text, 1 Kings 22:48, as our copies do, that ships
of Tarshish could lie at Ezion-geber, upon the Red Sea. But as to Josephus's assertion, that
Jonah's fish was carried by the strength of the current, upon a nean, it is by no means an
improbable determination in Josephus.

[20] This ancient piece of religion, of supposing there was great sin where there was great
misery, and of casting lots to discover great sinners, not only among the Israelites, but among
these heathen mariners, seems a remarkable remains of the ancient tradition which prevailed
of old over all mankind, that I Providence used to interpose visibly in all human affairs,
and storm, as far as the Euxine Sea, it is no way impossible; and since the storm might have
driven the ship, while Jonah was in it never to bring, or at least not long to continue, notorious
judge, near to that Euxine Sea, and since in three more days, while but for notorious sins,
which the most ancient Book of he was in the fish's belly, that current might bring him to
the Job shows to have been the state of mankind for about the Assyrian coast, and since withal
that coast could bring him former three thousand years of the world, till the days of Job nearer
to Nineveh than could any coast of the Mediterranian and Moses. 45:8; 46:18, that no such thing
should be done [at the Jews' restoration], but the king should have land of his own."

[23] This passage is taken out of the prophet Nahum, ch. 2:8-13, and is the principal, or rather
the only, one that is given us almost verbatim, but a little abridged, in all Josephus's known
writings: by which quotation we learn what he himself always asserts, viz. that he made use
of the Hebrew original and not of the Greek version]; as also we learn, that his Hebrew copy
considerably differed from ours. See all three texts particularly set down and compared together
in the Essay on the Old Testament, page 187.

[24] This siege of Samaria, though not given a particular account of, either in our Hebrew
or Greek Bibles, or in Josephus, was so very long, no less than three years, that it was no
way improbable but that parents, and particularly mothers, might therein be reduced to eat
their own children, as the law of Moses had threatened upon their disobedience, Leviticus 26;29;
Deuteronomy 28:53-57; and as was accomplished in the other shorter sieges of both the capital
cities, Jerusalem and Samaria; the former mentioned Jeremiah 19:9; Antiq. B. IX. ch. 4. sect.
4, and the latter, 2 Kings 6:26-29.

BOOK 10 FOOTNOTES

[1] This title of great king, both in our Bibles, 2 Kings 18:19; Isaiah 36:4, and here in Josephus,
is the very same that Herodotus gives this Sennacherib, as Spanheim takes notice on this place.

[2] What Josephus says here, how Isaiah the prophet assured Hezekiah that "at this time he
should not be besieged by the king of Assyria; that for the future he might be secure of being
not at all disturbed by him; and that [afterward] the people might go on peaceably, and without
fear, with their husbandry and other affairs," is more distinct in our other copies, both of
the Kings and of Isaiah, and deserves very great consideration. The words are these: "This
shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such as groweth of itself, and the second
year that which springeth of the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards,
and eat the fruit thereof," 2 Kings 19:29; Isaiah 37:30; which seem to me plainly to design
a Sabbatic year, a year of jubilee next after it, and the succeeding usual labors and fruits
of them on the third and following years.

[3] That this terrible calamity of the slaughter of the 185,000 Assyrians is here delivered
in the words of Berosus the Chaldean, and that it was certainly and frequently foretold by
the Jewish prophets, and that it was certainly and undeniably accomplished, see Authent. Rec.
part II. p. 858.

[3] We are here to take notice, that these two sons of Sennacherib, that ran away into Armenia,
became the heads of two famous families there, the Arzerunii and the Genunii; of which see
the particular histories in Moses Chorenensis, p. 60.

[4] Josephus, and all our copies, place the sickness of Hezekiah after the destruction of Sennacherib's
army, because it appears to have been after his first assault, as he was going into Arabia
and Egypt, where he pushed his conquests as far as they would go, and in order to despatch
his story altogether; yet does no copy but this of Josephus say it was after that destruction,
but only that it happened in those days, or about that time of Hezekiah's life. Nor will the
fifteen years' prolongation of his life after his sickness, allow that sickness to have been
later than the former part of the fifteenth year of his reign, since chronology does not allow
him in all above twenty-nine years and a few months; whereas the first assault of Sennacherib
was on the fourteenth year of Hezekiah, but the destruction of Sennacherib's army was not till
his eighteenth year.

[5] As to this regress of the shadow, either upon a sun-dial, or the steps of the royal palace
built by Ahaz, whether it were physically done by the real miraculous revolution of the earth
in its diurnal motion backward from east to west for a while, and its return again to its old
natural revolution from west to east; or whether it were not apparent only, and performed by
an aerial phosphorus, which imitated the sun's motion backward, while a cloud hid the real
sun; cannot now be determined. Philosophers and astronomers will naturally incline to the latter
hypothesis. However, it must be noted, that Josephus seems to have understood it otherwise
than we generally do, that the shadow was accelerated as much at first forward as it was made
to go backward afterward, and so the day was neither longer nor shorter than usual; which,
it must be confessed agrees best of all to astronomy, whose eclipses, older than the time were
observed at the same times of the day as if this miracle had never happened. After all, this
wonderful signal was not, it seems, peculiar to Judea, but either seen, or at least heard of,
at Babylon also, as appears by 2 Chronicles 32:31, where we learn that the Babylonian ambassadors
were sent to Hezekiah, among other things, to inquire of the wonder that was done in the land.

[6] This expression of Josephus, that the Medes, upon this destruction of the Assyrian army,
"overthrew" the Assyrian empire, seems to be too strong; for although they immediately cast
off the Assrian yoke, and set up Deioces, a king of their own, yet it was some time before
the Medes and Babylonians overthrew Nineveh, and some generations ere the Medes and Persians
under Cyaxares and Cyrus overthrew the Assyrian or Babylonian empire, and took Babylon.

[7] It is hard to reconcile the account in the Second Book of Kings [ch. 23:11] with this account
in Josephus, and to translate this passage truly in Josephus, whose copies are supposed to
be here imperfect. However, the general sense of both seems to be this: That there were certain
chariots, with their horses, dedicated to the idol of the sun, or to Moloch; which idol might
be carried about in procession, and worshipped by the people; which chariots were now "taken
away," as Josephus says, or, as the Book of Kings says, "burnt with fire, by Josiah."

[8] This is a remarkable passage of chronology in Josephus, that about the latter end of the
reign of Josiah, the Medes and Babylonians overthrew the empire of the Assyrians; or, in the
words of Tobit's continuator, that "before Tobias died, he heard of the destruction of Nineveh,
which was taken by Nebuchodonosor the Babylonian, and Assuerus the Mede," Tob. 14:15. See Dean
Prideaux's Connexion, at the year 612. [9] This battle is justly esteemed the very same that
Herodotus [B. II. sect. 156] mentions, when he says, that "Necao joined battle with the Syrians
[or Jews] at Magdolum, [Megiddo,] and beat them," as Dr. Hudson here observes.

[10] Whether Josephus, from 2 Chronicles 35:25, here means the book of the Lamentations of
Jeremiah, still extant, which chiefly belongs to the destruction of Jerusalem under Nebuchadnezzar,
or to any other like melancholy poem now lost, but extant in the days of Josephus, belonging
peculiarly to Josiah, cannot now be determined.

[11] This ancient city Hamath, which is joined with Arpad, or Aradus, and with Damascus, 2
Kings 18:34; Isaiah 36:19; Jeremiah 49:23, cities of Syria and Phoenicia, near the borders
of Judea, was also itself evidently near the same borders, though long ago utterly destroyed.

[12] Josephus says here that Jeremiah prophesied not only of the return of the Jews from the
Babylonian captivity, and this under the Persians and Medes, as in our other copies; but of
cause they did not both say the same thing as to this circumstance, he disbelieved what they
both appeared to agree in, and condemned them as not speaking truth therein, although all the
things foretold him did come to pass according to their prophecies, as we shall show upon a
fitter opportunity their rebuilding the temple, and even the city Jerusalem, which do not appear
in our copies under his name. See the note on Antiq. B. XI. ch. 1. sect. 3. [13] This observation
of Josephus about the seeming disagreement of Jeremiah, ch. 32:4, and 34:3, and Ezekiel 12:13,
but real agreement at last, concerning the fate of Zedekiah, is very true and very remarkable.
See ch. 7. sect. 2. Nor is it at all unlikely that the courtiers and false prophets might make
use of this seeming contradiction to dissuade Zedekiah from believing either of those prophets,
as Josephus here intimates he was dissuaded thereby.

[14] I have here inserted in brackets this high priest Azarias, though he be omitted in all
Josephus's copies, out of the Jewish chronicle, Seder Olam, of how little authority soever
I generally esteem such late Rabbinical historians, because we know from Josephus himself,
that the number of the high priests belonging to this interval was eighteen, Antiq. B. XX.
ch. 10., whereas his copies have here but seventeen. Of this character of Baruch, the son of
Neriah, and the genuineness of his book, that stands now in our Apocrypha, and that it is really
a canonical book, and an appendix to Jeremiah, see Authent. Rec. Part I. p. 1--11.

[15] Herodotus says, this king of Egypt [Pharaoh Hophra, or Apries] was slain by the Egyptians,
as Jeremiah foretold his slaughter by his enemies, Jeremiah 44:29, 30, and that as a sign of
the destruction of Egypt [by Nebuchadnezzar]. Josephus says, this king was slain by Nebuchadnezzar
himself.

[16] We see here that Judea was left in a manner desolate after the captivity of the two tribes
and was not I with foreign colonies, perhaps as an indication of Providence that the Jews were
to repeople it without opposition themselves. I also esteem the latter and present desolate
condition of the same country, without being repeopled by foreign colonies, to be a like indication,
that the same Jews are hereafter to repeople it again themselves, at their so long expected
future restoration.

[17] That Daniel was made one of these eunuchs of which Isaiah prophesied, Isaiah 39:7, and
the three children his companions also, seems to me plain, both here in Josephus, and in our
copies of Daniel, Daniel 1:3, 6-11, 18, although it must be granted that some married persons,
that had children, were sometimes called eunuchs, in a general acceptation for courtiers, on
account that so many of the ancient courtiers were real eunuchs. See Genesis 39:1.

[18] Of this most remarkable passage in Josephus concerning the "stone cut out of the mountain,
and destroying the image," which he would not explain, but intimated to be a prophecy of futurity,
and probably not safe for him to explain, as belonging to the destruction of the Roman empire
by Jesus Christ, the true Messiah of the Jews, take the words of Hayercamp, ch. 10. sect. 4:
"Nor is this to be wondered at, that he would not now meddle with things future, for he had
no mind to provoke the Romans, by speaking of the destruction of that city which they called
the Eternal City."

[19] Since Josephus here explains the seven prophetic times which were to pass over Nebuchadnezzar
[Daniel 4:16] to be seven years, we thence learn how he most probably must have understood
those other parallel phrases, of "a time, times, and a half," Antiq. B. VII. ch. 25., of so
many prophetic years also, though he withal lets us know, by his hint at the interpretation
of the seventy weeks, as belonging to the fourth monarchy, and the destruction of Jerusalem
by the Romans in the days of Josephus, ch. 2. sect. 7, that he did not think those years to
be bare years, but rather days for years; by which reckoning, and by which alone, could seventy
weeks, or four hundred and ninety days, reach to the age of Josephus. But as to the truth of
those seven years' banishment of Nebuchadnezzar from men, and his living so long among the
beasts, the very small remains we have any where else of this Nebuchadnezzar prevent our expectation
of any other full account of it. So far we knew by Ptolemy's canon, a contemporary record,
as well as by Josephus presently, that he reigned in all forty-three years, that is, eight
years after we meet with any account of his actions; one of the last of which was the thirteen
years' siege of Tyre, Antiq. B. XI. ch. 11., where yet the Old Latin has but three years and
ten months: yet were his actions before so remarkable, both in sacred and profane authors,
that a vacuity of eight years at the least, at the latter end of his reign, must be allowed
to agree very well with Daniel's accounts; that after a seven years' brutal life, he might
return to his reason, and to the exercise of his royal authority, for one whole year at least
before his death.

[20] These forty-three years for the duration of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar are, as I have
just now observed, the very same number in Ptolemy's canon. Moses Chorenensis does also confirm
this captivity of the Jews under Nebuchadnezzar, and adds, what is very remarkable, that sale
of those Jews that were carried by him into captivity got away into Armenia, and raised the
great family of the Bagratide there.

[21] These twenty-one years here ascribed to one named Naboulassar, in the first book against
Apion, or to Nabopollassar, the father of the great Nebuchadnezzar, are also the very same
with those given him in Ptolemy's canon. And note here, that what Dr. Prideaux says, at the
year, that Nebuchadnezzar must have been a common name of other kings of Babylon, besides the
great Nebuchadnezzar himself is a groundless mistake of some modern chronologers rely, and
destitute of all proper original authority.

[22] These fifteen days for finishing such vast buildings at Babylon, in Josephus's copy of
Berosus, would seem too absurd to be supposed to be the true number, were it not for the same
testimony extant also in the first book against Apion, sect. 19, with the same number. It thence
indeed appears that Josephus's copy of Berosus had this small number, but that it is the true
number I still doubt. Josephus assures us, that the walls of so much a smaller city as Jerusalem
were two years and four months in building by Nehemiah, who yet hastened the work all he could,
Antiq. B. XI. ch. 5. sect. 8. I should think one hundred and fifteen days, or a year and fifteen
days, much more proportionable to so great a work.

[23] It is here remarkable that Josephus, without the knowledge of Ptolemy's canon, should
call the same king whom he himself here [Bar. i. 11, and Daniel 5:1, 2, 9, 12, 22, 29, 39]
styles Beltazar, or Belshazzar, from the Babylonian god Bel, Naboandelus also; and in the first
book against Apion, sect. 19, vol. iii., from the same citation out of Berosus, Nabonnedon,
from the Babylonian god Nabo or Nebo. This last is not remote from the original pronunciation
itself in Ptolemy's canon, Nabonadius; for both the place of this king in that canon, as the
last of the Assyrian or Babylonian kings, and the number of years of his reign, seventeen,
the same in both demonstrate that it is one and the same king that is meant by them all. It
is also worth noting, that Josephus knew that Darius, the partner of Cyrus, was the son of
Astyages, and was called by another name among the Greeks, though it does not appear he knew
what that name was, as having never seen the best history of this period, which is Xenophon's.
But then what Josephus's present copies say presently, sect. 4, that it was only within no
long time after the hand-writing on the wall that Baltasar was slain, does not so well agree
with our copies of Daniel, which say it was the same night, Daniel 5:30.

[24] This grandmother, or mother of Baltasar, the queen dowager of Babylon, [for she is distinguished
from his queen, Daniel 5:10, 13,] seems to have been the famous Nitocris, who fortified Babylon
against the Medes and Persians, and, in all probability governed under Baltasar, who seems
to be a weak and effeminate prince.

[25] It is no way improbable that Daniel's enemies might suggest this reason to the king why
the lions did not meddle with him and that they might suspect the king's kindness to Daniel
had procured these lions to be so filled beforehand, and that thence it was that he encouraged
Daniel to submit to this experiment, in hopes of coming off safe; and that this was the true
reason of making so terrible an experiment upon those his enemies, and all their families,
Daniel 6:21, though our other copies do not directly take notice of it.

[26] What Josephus here says, that the stones of the sepulchers of the kings of Persia at this
tower, or those perhaps of the same sort that are now commonly called the ruins of Persepolis,
continued so entire and unaltered in his days, as if they were lately put there, "I [says Reland]
here can show to be true, as to those stones of the Persian mansoleum, which Com. Brunius brake
off and gave me." He ascribed this to the hardness of the stones, which scarcely yields to
iron tools, and proves frequently too hard for cutting by the chisel, but oftentimes breaks
it to pieces.

BOOK 11 FOOTNOTES

[1] This Cyrus is called God's shepherd by Xenophon, as well as by Isaiah, Isaiah 44:28; as
also it is said of him by the same prophet, that "I will make a man more precious than fine
gold, even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir," Isaiah 13:12, which character makes Xenophon's
most excellent history of him very credible.

[2] This leave to build Jerusalem, sect.

[3] Of the true number of golden and silver vessels here and elsewhere belonging to the temple
of Solomon, see the description of the temples, chap. 13.

[4] Josephus here follows Herodotus, and those that related how Cyrus made war with the Scythians
and Massagets, near the Caspian Sea, and perished in it; while Xenophon's account, which appears
never to have been seen by Josephus, that Cyrus died in peace in his own country of Persia,
is attested to by the writers of the affairs of Alexander the Great, when they agree that he
found Cyrus's sepulcher at Pasargadae, near Persepolis. This account of Xenophon is also confirmed
by the circumstances of Cambyses, upon his succession to Cyrus, who, instead of a war to avenge
his father's death upon the Scythians and Massagets, and to prevent those nations from overrunning
his northern provinces, which would have been the natural consequence of his father's ill success
and death there, went immediately to an Egyptian war, long ago begun by Cyrus, according to
Xenophon, p. 644, and conquered that kingdom; nor is there, that I ever heard of, the least
mention in the reign of Cambyses of any war against the Scythians and Massagets that he was
ever engaged in all his life.

[5] The reader is to note, that although the speeches or papers of these three of the king's
guard are much the same, in our Third Book of Esdras, ch. 3. and 4., as they are here in Josephus,
yet that the introduction of them is entirely different, while in our Esdras the whole is related
as the contrivance of the three of the king's guards themselves; and even the mighty rewards
are spoken of as proposed by themselves, and the speeches are related to have been delivered
by themselves to the king in writing, while all is contrary in Josephus. I need not say whose
account is the most probable, the matters speak for themselves; and there can be no doubt but
Josephus's history is here to be very much preferred before the other. Nor indeed does it seem
to me at all unlikely that the whole was a contrivance of king Darius's own, in order to be
decently and inoffensively put in mind by Zorobabel of fulfilling his old vow for the rebuilding
of Jerusalem and the temple, and the restoration of the worship of the "one true God" there.
Nor does the full meaning of Zorobabel, when he cries out, 3 Esd. 4. 41], "Blessed be the God
of truth;" and here, "God is true and righteous;" or even of all the people, 3 Esd. 4. 41,
"Great is truth, and mighty above all things;" seem to me much different from this, "There
is but one true God, the God of Israel." To which doctrine, such as Cyrus and Darius; etc.,
the Jews' great patrons, seem not to have been very averse, though the entire idolatry of their
kingdoms made them generally conceal it.

[6] This strange reading in Josephus's present copies of four millions instead of forty thousand,
is one of the grossest errors that is in them, and ought to be corrected from Ezra 2:61; 1
Esd. 5:40; and Nehemiah 7:66, who all agree the general sum was but about forty-two thousand
three hundred and sixty. It is also very plain that Josephus thought, that when Esdras afterwards
brought up another company out of Babylon and Persia, in the days of Xerxes, they were also,
as well as these, out of the two tribes, and out of them only, and were in all no more than
"a seed" and "a remnant," while an "immense number" of the ten tribes never returned, but,
as he believed, continued then beyond Euphrates, ch. 5. sect. 2, 3; of which multitude, the
Jews beyond Euphrates, he speaks frequently elsewhere, though, by the way, he never takes them
to be idolaters, but looks on them still as observers of the laws of Moses. The "certain part"
of the people that now came up from Babylon, at the end of this chapter, imply the same smaller
number of Jews that now came up, and will no way agree with the four millions.

[7] The history contained in this section is entirely wanting in all our other copies, both
of Ezra and Esdras.

[8] Dr. Hudson takes notice here, that this kind of brass or copper, or rather mixture of gold
and brass or copper, was called aurichalcum, and that this was of old esteemed the most precious
of all metals.

[9] This procedure of Esdras, and of the best part of the Jewish nation, after their return
from the Babylonish captivity, of reducing the Jewish marriages, once for all, to the strictness
of the law of Moses, without any regard to the greatness of those who had broken it, and without
regard to that natural affection or compassion for their heathen wives, and their children
by them, which made it so hard for Esdras to correct it, deserves greatly to be observed and
imitated in all attempts for reformation among Christians, the contrary conduct having ever
been the bane of true religion, both among Jews and Christians, while political views, or human
passions, or prudential motives, are suffered to take place instead of the Divine laws, and
so the blessing of God is forfeited, and the church still suffered to continue corrupt from
one generation to another. See ch. 8. sect. 2.

[10] This Jewish feast of tabernacles was imitated in several heathen solemnities, as Spanheim
here observes and proves. He also further observes presently, what great regard many heathens
had to the monuments of their forefathers, as Nehemiah had here, sect. 6.

[11] This rule of Esdras, not to fast on a festival day, is quoted in the Apostolical Constitutions,
B. V., as obtaining among Christians also.

[12] This miserable condition of the Jews, and their capital, must have been after the death
of Esdras, their former governor, and before Nehemiah came with his commission to build the
walls of Jerusalem. Nor is that at all disagreeable to these histories in Josephus, since Esdras
came on the seventh, and Nehemiah not till the twenty-fifth of Xerxes, at the interval of eighteen
years.

[13] This showing king Xerxes's epistles to God, or laying them open before God in the temple,
is very like the laying open the epistles of Sennacherib before him also by Hezekiah, 2 Kings
19:14; Isaiah 37:14, although this last was for a memorial, to put him in mind of the enemies,
in order to move the Divine compassion, and the present as a token of gratitude for mercies
already received, as Hayercamp well observes on this place.

[14] It may not be very improper to remark here, with what an unusual accuracy Josephus determines
these years of Xerxes, in which the walls of Jerusalem were built, viz. that Nehemiah came
with his commission in the twenty-fifth of Xerxes, that the walls were two years and four months
in building, and that they were finished on the twenty-eighth of Xerxes, sect. 7, 8. It may
also be remarked further, that Josephus hardly ever mentions more than one infallible astronomical
character, I mean an eclipse of the moon, and this a little before the death of Herod the Great,
Antiq. B. XVII. ch. 6. sect. 4. Now on these two chronological characters in great measure
depend some of the most important points belonging to Christianity, viz. the explication of
Daniel's seventy weeks, and the duration of our Savior's ministry, and the time of his death,
in correspondence to those seventy weeks. See the Supplement to the Lit. Accorap. of Proph. p. 72.

[15] Since some skeptical persons are willing to discard this Book of Esther as no true history;
and even our learned and judicious Dr. Wall, in his late posthumous Critical Notes upon all
the other Hebrew books of the Old Testament, gives none upon the Canticles, or upon Esther,
and seems thereby to give up this book, as well as he gives up the Canticles, as indefensible;
I shall venture to say, that almost all the objections against this Book of Esther are gone
at once, if, as we certainly ought to do, and as Dean Prideaux has justly done, we place this
history under Artsxerxes Longimanus, as do both the Septuagint interpretation and Josephus.
The learned Dr. Lee, in his posthumous Dissertation on the Second Book of Esdras, p. 25, also
says, that "the truth of this history is demonstrated by the feast of Purlin, kept up from
that time to this very day. And this surprising providential revolution in favor of a captive
people, thereby constantly commemorated, standeth even upon a firmer basis than that there
ever was such a man as king Alexander [the Great] in the world, of whose reign there is no
such abiding monument at this day to be found any where. Nor will they, I dare say, who quarrel
at this or any other of the sacred histories, find it a very easy matter to reconcile the different
accounts which were given by historians of the affairs of this king, or to confirm any one
fact of his whatever with the same evidence which is here given for the principal fact in this
sacred book, or even so much as to prove the existence of such a person, of whom so great things
are related, but upon granting this Book of Esther, or sixth of Esdras, [as it is placed in
some of the most ancient copies of the Vulgate,] to be a most true and certain history," etc.

[16] If the Chaldee paraphrast be in the right, that Artaxerxes intended to show Vashti to
his guests naked, it is no wonder at all that she would not submit to such an indignity; but
still if it were not so gross as that, yet it might, in the king's cups, be done in a way so
indecent, as the Persian laws would not then bear, no more than the common laws of modesty.
And that the king had some such design seems not improbable, for otherwise the principal of
these royal guests could be no strangers to the queen, nor unapprized of her beauty, so far
as decency admitted. However, since Providence was now paving the way for the introduction
of a Jewess into the king's affections, in order to bring about one of the most wonderful deliverances
which the Jewish or any other nation ever had, we need not be further solicitous about the
motives by which the king was induced to divorce Vashti, and marry Esther.

[17] Herodotus says that this law [against any one's coming uncalled to the kings of Persia
when they were sitting on their thrones] was first enacted by Deioces [i.e. by him who first
withdrew the Medes from the dominion of the Assyrians, and himself first reigned over them].
Thus also, lays Spanheim, stood guards, with their axes, about the throne of Tenus, or Tenudus,
that the offender might by them be punished immediately.

[18] Whether this adoration required of Mordecai to Haman were by him deemed too like the adoration
due only to God, as Josephus seems here to think, as well as the Septuagint interpreters also,
by their translation of Esther 13:12-14, or whether he thought he ought to pay no sort of adoration
to an Amalekite, which nation had been such great sinners as to have been universally devoted
to destruction by God himself, Exodus 17:14-16; 1 Samuel 15:18, or whether both causes concurred,
cannot now, I doubt, be certainly determined.

[19] The true reason why king Artaxerxes did not here properly revoke his former barbarous
decree for the universal slaughter of the Jews, but only empowered and encouraged the Jews
to fight for their lives, and to kill their enemies, if they attempted their destruction, seems
to have been that old law of the Medes and Persians, not yet laid aside, that whatever decree
was signed both by the king and his lords could not be changed, but remained unalterable, Daniel
6:7-9, 12, 15, 17; Esther 1:19; 8:8. And Haman having engrossed the royal favor might perhaps
have himself signed this decree for the Jews' slaughter instead of the ancient lords, and so
might have rendered it by their rules irrevocable.

[21] These words give an intimation as if Artaxerxes suspected a deeper design in Haman than
openly appeared, viz. that knowing the Jews would be faithful to him, and that he could never
transfer the crown to his own family, who was an Agagite, Esther 3:1, 10, or of the posterity
of Agag, the old king of the Amalekites, 1 Samuel 15:8, 32, 33, while they were alive, and
spread over all his dominions, he therefore endeavored to destroy them. Nor is it to me improbable
that those seventy-five thousand eight hundred of the Jews' enemies which were soon destroyed
by the Jews, on the permission of the king, which must be on some great occasion, were Amalekites,
their old and hereditary enemies, Exodus 17:14, 15; and that thereby was fulfilled Balaam's
prophecy, "Amalek was the first of the nations, but his latter end shall be, that he perish
for ever" Numbers 24:20.

[21] Take here part of Reland's note on this disputed passage: "In Josephus's copies these
Hebrew words, 'days of Purim,' or ' lots,' as in the Greek copies of Esther, ch. 9:26, 28-32,
is read 'days of Phurim,' or 'days of protection,' but ought to be read' days of Parira,' as
in the Hebrew; than which creation," says he, "nothing is more certain." And had we any assurance
that Josephus's copy mentioned the "casting of lots," as our other copies do, Esther 3:7, I
should fully agree with Reland; but, as it now stands, it seems to me by no means certain.
As to this whole Book of Esther in the present Hebrew copy, it is so very imperfect, in a case
where the providence of God was so very remarkable, and the Septuagint and Josephus have so
much of religion, that it has not so much as the name of God once in it; and it is hard to
say who made that epitome which the Masorites have given us for the genuine book itself; no
religious Jews could well be the authors of it, whose education obliged them to have a constant
regard to God, and whatsoever related to his worship; nor do we know that there ever was so
imperfect a copy of it in the world till after the days of Barchochab, in the second century.

[22] Concerning this other Artaxerxes, called Muemon, and the Persian affliction and captivity
of the Jews under him, occasioned by the murder of the high priest's brother in the holy house
itself, see Authent. Rec. at large, p. 49. And if any wonder why Josephus wholly omits the
rest of the kings of Persia after Artaxerxes Mnemon, till he came to their last king Darius,
who was conquered by Alexander the Great, I shall give them Vossius's and Dr. Hudson's answer,
though in my own words, viz. that Josephus did not do ill in admitting those kings of Persia
with whom the Jews had no concern, because he was giving the history of the Jews, and not of
the Persians [which is a sufficient reason also why he entirely omits the history and the Book
of Job, as not particularly relating to that nation]. He justly therefore returns to the Jewish
affairs after the death of Longimanus, without any intention of Darius II. before Artaxerxes
Mnemon, or of Ochus or Arogus, as the Canon of Ptolemy names them, after him. Nor had he probably
mentioned this other Artaxerxes, unless Bagoses, one of the governors and commanders under
him, had occasioned the pollution of the Jewish temple, and had greatly distressed the Jews
upon that pollution.

[23] The place showed Alexander might be Daniel 7:6; 8:3-8, 20--22; 11:3; some or all of them
very plain predictions of Alexander's conquests and successors.

BOOK 12 FOOTNOTES

[1] Here Josephus uses the very word koinopltagia, "eating things common," for "eating things
unclean;" as does our New Testament, Acts 10:14, 15, 28; 11:8, 9; Romans 14:14.

[2] The great number of these Jews and Samaritans that were formerly carried into Egypt by
Alexander, and now by Ptolemy the son of Lagus, appear afterwards in the vast multitude who
as we shall see presently, were soon ransomed by Philadelphus, and by him made free, before
he sent for the seventy-two interpreters; in the many garrisons and other soldiers of that
nation in Egypt; in the famous settlement of Jews, and the number of their synagogues at Alexandria,
long afterward; and in the vehement contention between the Jews and Samatitans under Philometer,
about the place appointed for public worship in the law of Moses, whether at the Jewish temple
of Jerusalem, or at the Samaritan temple of Gerizzim; of all which our author treats hereafter.
And as to the Samaritans carried into Egypt under the same princes, Scaliger supposes that
those who have a great synagogue at Cairo, as also those whom the Arabic geographer speaks
of as having seized on an island in the Red Sea, are remains of them at this very day, as the
notes here inform us.

[3] Of the translation of the other parts of the Old Testament by seventy Egyptian Jews, in
the reigns of Ptolemy the son of Lagus, and Philadelphus; as also of the translation of the
Pentateuch by seventy-two Jerusalem Jews, in the seventh year of Philadelphus at Alexandria,
as given us an account of by Aristeus, and thence by Philo and Josephus, with a vindication
of Aristeus's history; see the Appendix to Lit. Accorap. of Proph. at large, p. 117--152.

[4] Although this number one hundred and twenty drachmee [of Alexandria, or sixty Jewish shekels]
be here three times repeated, and that in all Josephus's copies, Greek and Latin; yet since
all the copies of Aristeus, whence Josephus took his relation, have this sum several times,
and still as no more than twenty drachmae, or ten Jewish shekels; and since the sum of the
talents, to be set down presently, which is little above four hundred and sixty, for somewhat
more than one hundred thousand slaves, and is nearly the same in Josephus and Aristeus, does
better agree to twenty than to one hundred and twenty drachmae; and since the value of a slave
of old was at the utmost but thirty shekels, or sixty drachmae; see Exodus 21:32; while in
the present circumstances of these Jewish slaves, and those so very numerous, Philadelphus
would rather redeem them at a cheaper than at a dearer rate;--there is great reason to prefer
here Aristeus's copies before Josephus's.

[5] We have a very great encomium of this Simon the Just, the son of Onias, in the fiftieth
chapter of the Ecclesiasticus, through the whole chapter. Nor is it improper to consult that
chapter itself upon this occasion.

[6] When we have here and presently mention made of Philadelphus's queen and sister Arsinoe,
we are to remember, with Spanheim, that Arsinoe was both his sister and his wife, according
to the old custom of Persia, and of Egypt at this very time; nay, of the Assyrians long afterwards.
See Antiq. B. XX. ch. 2. sect. 1. Whence we have, upon the coins of Philadelphus, this known
inscription, "The divine brother and sister."

[7] The Talmudists say, that it is not lawful to write the law in letters of gold, contrary
to this certain and very ancient example. See Hudson's and Reland's notes here.

[8] This is the most ancient example I have met with of a grace, or short prayer, or thanksgiving
before meat; which, as it is used to be said by a heathen priest, was now said by Eleazar,
a Jewish priest, who was one of these seventy-two interpreters. The next example I have met
with, is that of the Essenes, [Of the War, B. II. ch. 8. sect. 5,] both before and after it;
those of our Savior before it, Mark 8:6; John 6:11, 23; and St. Paul, Acts 27:35; and a form
of such a grace or prayer for Christians, at the end of the fifth book of the Apostolical Constitutions,
which seems to have been intended for both times, both before and after meat.

[9] They were rather political questions and answers, tending to the good and religious government
of mankind.

[10] This purification of the interpreters, by washing in the sea, before they prayed to God
every morning, and before they set about translating, may be compared with the like practice
of Peter the apostle, in the Recognitions of Clement, B. IV. ch. 3., and B. V. ch. 36., and
with the places of the Proseuchre, or of prayer, which were sometimes built near the sea or
rivers also; of which matter see Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 10. sect. 9,3; Acts 16:13. 16.

[11] The use of oil was much greater, and the donatives of it much more valuable, in Judea,
and the neighboring countries, than it is amongst us. It was also, in the days of Josephus,
thought unlawful for Jews to make use of any oil that was prepared by heathens, perhaps on
account of some superstitions intermixed with its preparation by those heathens. When therefore
the heathens were to make them a donative of oil,: they paid them money instead of it. See
Of the War, B. II. ch. 21. sect. 2; the Life of Josephus, sect. 13; and Hudson's note on the
place before us.

[12] This, and the like great and just characters, of the justice, and equity, and generosity
of the old Romans, both to the Jews and other conquered nations, affords us a very good reason
why Almighty God, upon the rejection of the Jews for their wickedness, chose them for his people,
and first established Christianity in that empire; of which matter see Josephus here, sect.
2; as also Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 10. sect. 22, 23; B. XVI. ch. 2. sect. 4.

[13] The name of this place, Phicol, is the very same with that of the chief captain of Abimelech's
host, in the days of Abraham, Genesis 21:22, and might possibly be the place of that Phicol's
nativity or abode, for it seems to have been in the south part of Palestine, as that was.

[14] Whence it comes that these Lacedemonians declare themselves here to be of kin to the Jews,
as derived from the same ancestor, Abraham, I cannot tell, unless, as Grotius supposes, they
were derived from Dores, that came of the Pelasgi. These are by Herodotus called Barbarians,
and perhaps were derived from the Syrians and Arabians, the posterity of Abraham by Keturah.
See Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 10. sect. 22; and Of the War, B. I. ch. 26. sect. l; and Grot. on 1
Macc. 12:7. We may further observe from the Recognitions of Clement, that Eliezer, of Damascus,
the servant of Abraham, Genesis 15:2; 24., was of old by some taken for his son. So that if
the Lacedemonians were sprung from him, they might think themselves to be of the posterity
of Abraham, as well as the Jews, who were sprung from Isaac. And perhaps this Eliezer of Damascus
is that very Damascus whom Trogus Pompeius, as abridged by Justin, makes the founder of the
Jewish nation itself, though he afterwards blunders, and makes Azelus, Adores, Abraham, and
Israel kings of Judea, and successors to this Damascus. It may not be improper to observe further,
that Moses Chorenensis, in his history of the Armenians, informs us, that the nation of the
Parthians was also derived from Abraham by Keturah and her children.

[15] This word" Gymnasium" properly denotes a place where the exercises were performed naked,
which because it would naturally distinguish circumcised Jews from uncircumcised Gentiles,
these Jewish apostates endeavored to appear uncircumcised, by means of a surgical operation,
hinted at by St. Paul, 1 Corinthians 7:18, and described by Celsus, B. VII. ch. 25., as Dr.
Hudson here informs us.

[16] Hereabout Josephus begins to follow the First Book of the Maccabees, a most excellent
and most authentic history; and accordingly it is here, with great fidelity and exactness,
abridged by him; between whose present copies there seem to be fewer variations than in any
other sacred Hebrew book of the Old Testament whatsoever, [for this book also was originally
written in Hebrew,] which is very natural, because it was written so much nearer to the times
of Josephus than the rest were.

[17] This citadel, of which we have such frequent mention in the following history, both in
the Maccabees and Josephus, seems to have been a castle built on a hill, lower than Mount Zion,
though upon its skirts, and higher than Mount Moriah, but between them both; which hill the
enemies of the Jews now got possession of, and built on it this citadel, and fortified it,
till a good while afterwards the Jews regained it, demolished it, and leveled the hill itself
with the common ground, that their enemies might no more recover it, and might thence overlook
the temple itself, and do them such mischief as they had long undergone from it, Antiq. B.
XIII. ch. 6. sect. 6.

[18] This allegation of the Samaritans is remarkable, that though they were not Jews, yet did
they, from ancient times, observe the Sabbath day, and, as they elsewhere pretend, the Sabbatic
year also, Antiq. B. XI. ch. 8. sect. 6.

[19] That this appellation of Maccabee was not first of all given to Judas Maccabeus, nor was
derived from any initial letters of the Hebrew words on his banner, "Mi Kamoka Be Elire, Jehovah?"
["Who is like unto thee among the gods, O Jehovah?"] Exodus 15:11 as the modern Rabbins vainly
pretend, see Authent. Rec. Part I. p. 205, 206. Only we may note, by the way, that the original
name of these Maccabees, and their posterity, was Asamoneans; which was derived from Asamoneus,
the great-grandfather of Mattathias, as Josephus here informs us.

[20] The reason why Bethshah was called Scythopolis is well known from Herodotus, B. I. p.
105, and Syncellus, p. 214, that the Scythians, when they overran Asia, in the days of Josiah,
seized on this city, and kept it as long as they continued in Asia, from which time it retained
the name of Scythopolis, or the City of the Scythians.

[21] This most providential preservation of all the religious Jews in this expedition, which
was according to the will of God, is observable often among God's people, the Jews; and somewhat
very like it in the changes of the four monarchies, which were also providential. See Prideaux
at the years 331, 333, and 334.

[22] Here is another great instance of Providence, that when, even at the very time that Simon,
and Judas, and Jonathan were so miraculously preserved and blessed, in the just defense of
their laws and religion, these other generals of the Jews, who went to fight for honor in a
vain-glorious way, and without any commission from God, or the family he had raised up to deliver
them, were miserably disappointed and defeated. See 1 Macc. 5:61, 62. [23] Since St. Paul,
a Pharisee, confesses that he had not known concupiscence, or desires, to be sinful, had not
the tenth commandment said, "Thou shalt not covet," Romans 7:7, the case seems to have been
much the same with our Josephus, who was of the same sect, that he had not a deep sense of
the greatness of any sins that proceeded no further than the intention. However, since Josephus
speaks here properly of the punishment of death, which is not intended by any law, either of
God or man, for the bare intention, his words need not to be strained to mean, that sins intended,
but not executed, were no sins at all.

[24] No wonder that Josephus here describes Antiochus Eupator as young, and wanting tuition,
when he came to the crown, since Appian informs us [Syriac. p. 177] that he was then but nine
years old.

[25] It is no way probable that Josephus would call Bacchidoa, that bitter and bloody enemy
of the Jews, as our present copies have it, a man good, or kind, and gentle, What the author
of the First Book of Maccabees, whom Josephus here follows, instead of that character, says
of him, is, that he was a great man in the kingdom, and faithful to his king; which was very
probably Josephus's meaning also.

[26] Josephus's copies must have been corrupted when they here give victory to Nicanor, contrary
to the words following, which imply that he who was beaten fled into the citadel, which for
certain belonged to the city of David, or to Mount Zion, and was in the possession of Nicanor's
garrison, and not of Judas's. As also it is contrary to the express words of Josephus's original
author, 1 Macc. 7:32, who says that Nicanor lost about five thousand men, and fled to the city
of David.

[27] This account of the miserable death of Alcimus, or Jac-mus, the wicked high priest, [the
first that was not of the family of the high priests, and made by a vile heathen, Lysias,]
before the death of Judas, and of Judas's succession to him as high priest, both here, and
at the conclusion of this book, directly contradicts 1 Macc. 9:54-57, which places his death
after the death of Judas, and says not a syllable of the high priesthood of Judas. How well
the Roman histories agree to this account of the conquests and powerful condition of the Romans
at this time, see the notes in Havercamp's edition; only that the number of the senators of
Rome was then just three hundred and twenty, is, I think, only known from 1 Macc. 8:15.

[28] This subscription is wanting 1 Macc. 8:17, 29, and must be the words of Josephus, who
by mistake thought, as we have just now seen, that Judas was at this time high priest, and
accordingly then reckoned his brother Jonathan to be the general of the army, which yet he
seems not to have been till after the death of Judas.

[29] That this copy of Josephus, as he wrote it, had here not one thousand, but three thousand,
with 1 Macc 9:5, is very plain, because though the main part ran away at first, even in Josephus,
as well as in 1 Macc. 9:6, yet, as there, so here, eight hundred are said to have remained
with Judas, which would be absurd, if the whole number had been no more than one thousand.

BOOK 13 FOOTNOTES

[1] This Alexander Bala, who certainly pretended to be the son of Antiochus Epiphanes, and
was owned for such by the Jews and Romans, and many others, and yet is by several historians
deemed to be a counterfeit, and of no family at all, is, however, by Josephus believed to have
been the real son of that Antiochus, and by him always spoken of accordingly. And truly, since
the original contemporary and authentic author of the First Book of Maccabees [10:1] calls
him by his father's name, Epiphanes, and says he was the son of Antiochus, I suppose the other
writers, who are all much later, are not to be followed against such evidence, though perhaps
Epiphanes might have him by a woman of no family. The king of Egypt also, Philometor, soon
gave him his daughter in marriage, which he would hardly have done, had he believed him to
be a counterfeit, and of so very mean a birth as the later historians pretend.

[2] Since Jonathan plainly did not put on the pontifical robes till seven or eight years after
the death of his brother Judas, or not till the feast of tabernacles, in the 160th of the Seleucidm,
1 Macc. 10;21, Petitus's emendation seems here to deserve consideration, who, instead of "after
four years since the death of his brother Judas," would have us read, "and therefore after
eight years since the death of his brother Judas." This would tolerably well agree with the
date of the Maccabees, and with Josephus's own exact chronology at the end of the twentieth
book of these Antiquities, which the present text cannot be made to do.

[3] Take Grotius's note here: "The Jews," says he, "were wont to present crowns to the kings
[of Syria]; afterwards that gold which was paid instead of those crowns, or which was expended
in making them, was called the crown gold and crown tax." On 1 Macc. 10:29.

[4] Since the rest of the historians now extant give this Demetrius thirteen years, and Josephus
only eleven years, Dean Prideaux does not amiss in ascribing to him the mean number twelve.

[5] It seems to me contrary to the opinion of Josephus, and of the moderns, both Jews and Christians,
that this prophecy of Isaiah, 19:19, etc., "In that day there shall be an altar to the Lord
in the midst of the land of Egypt," etc., directly foretold the building of this temple of
Onias in Egypt, and was a sufficient warrant to the Jews for building it, and for worshipping
the true God, the God of Israel, therein. See Authent. Rec. 11. p. 755. That God seems to have
soon better accepted of the sacrifices and prayers here offered him than those at Jerusalem,
see the note on ch. 10. sect. 7. And truly the marks of Jewish corruption or interpolation
in this text, in order to discourage their people from approving of the Worship of God here,
are very strong, and highly deserve our consideration and correction. [or the first] "shall
be called, The City of Destruction," Isaiah 19:18. A strange-name, "City of Destruction," upon
so joyful occasion, and a name never heard of in the land of Egypt, or perhaps in any other
nation. The old reading was evidently the City of the Sun, or Heliopolis; and Unkelos, in effect,
and Symmachus, with the Arabic version, entirely confess that to be the true reading. The Septuagint
also, though they have the text disguised in the common copies, and call it Asedek, the City
of Righteousness; yet in two or three other copies the Hebrew word itself for the Sun, Achares,
or Thares, is preserved. And since Onias insists with the king and queen, that Isaiah's prophecy
contained many other predictions relating to this place besides the words by him recited, it
is highly probable that these were especially meant by him; and that one main reason why he
applied this prediction to himself, and to his prefecture of Heliopolis, which Dean Prideaux
well proves was in that part of Egypt, and why he chose to build in that prefecture of Heliopolis,
though otherwise an improper place, was this, that the same authority that he had for building
this temple in Egypt, the very same he had for building it in his own prefecture of Heliopolis
also, which he desired to do, and which he did accordingly. Dean Prideaux has much ado to avoid
seeing this corruption of the Hebrew; but it being in support of his own opinion about this
temple, he durst not see it; and indeed he reasons here in the most injudicious manner possible.
See him at the year 149.

[6] A very unfair disputation this! while the Jewish disputant, knowing that he could not properly
prove out of the Pentateuch, that "the place which the Lord their God shall choose to place
his name there," so often referred to in the Book of Deuteronomy, was Jerusalem any more than
Gerizzim, that being not determined till the days of David, Antiq. B. VII. ch. 13. sect. 4,
proves only, what the Samaritans did not deny, that the temple at Jerusalem was much more ancient,
and much more celebrated and honored, than that at Gerizzim, which was nothing to the present
purpose. The whole evidence, by the very oaths of both parties, being, we see, obliged to be
confined to the law of Moses, or to the Pentateuch alone. However, worldly policy and interest
and the multitude prevailing, the court gave sentence, as usual, on the stronger side, and
poor Sabbeus and Theodosius, the Samaritan disputants, were martyred, and this, so far as appears,
without any direct hearing at all, which is like the usual practice of such political courts
about matters of religion. Our copies say that the body of the Jews were in a great concern
about those men [in the plural] who were to dispute for their temple at Jerusalem, whereas
it seems here they had but one disputant, Andronicus by name. Perhaps more were prepared to
speak on the Jews' side; but the firstraying answered to his name, and overcome the Samaritans,
there was necessity for any other defender of the Jerusalem temple.

[7] Of the several Apollonius about these ages, see Dean Prideaux at the year 148. This Apollonius
Daus was, by his account, the son of that Apollonius who had been made governor of Celesyria
and Phoenicia by Seleueus Philopater, and was himself a confidant of his son Demetrius the
father, and restored to his father's government by him, but afterwards revolted from him to
Alexander; but not to Demetrius the son, as he supposes.

[8] Dr. Hudson here observes, that the Phoenicians and Romans used to reward such as had deserved
well of them, by presenting to them a golden button. See ch. 5. sect. 4.

[9] This name, Demetrius Nicator, or Demetrius the conqueror, is so written on his coins still
extant, as Hudson and Spanheim inform us; the latter of whom gives us here the entire inscription,
"King Demetrius the God, Philadelphus, Nicator."

[10] This clause is otherwise rendered in the First Book of Maccabees, 12:9, "For that we have
the holy books of Scripture in our hands to comfort us." The Hebrew original being lost, we
cannot certainly judge which was the truest version only the coherence favors Josephus. But
if this were the Jews' meaning, that they were satisfied out of their Bible that the Jews and
Lacedemonians were of kin, that part of their Bible is now lost, for we find no such assertion
in our present copies.

[11] Those that suppose Josephus to contradict himself in his three several accounts of the
notions of the Pharisees, this here, and that earlier one, which is the largest, Of the War
B. II. ch. 8. sect. 14, and that later, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. 1. sect. 3, as if he sometimes
said they introduced an absolute fatality, and denied all freedom of human actions, is almost
wholly groundless if he ever, as the very learned Casaubon here truly observes, asserting,
that the Pharisees were between the Essens and Sadducees, and did so far ascribe all to fate
or Divine Providence as was consistent with the freedom of human actions. However, their perplexed
way of talking about fate, or Providence, as overruling all things, made it commonly thought
they were willing to excuse their sins by ascribing them to fate, as in the Apostolical Constitutions,
B. VI. ch. 6. Perhaps under the same general name some difference of opinions in this point
might be propagated, as is very common in all parties, especially in points of metaphysical
subtilty. However, our Josephus, who in his heart was a great admirer of the piety of the Essens,
was yet in practice a Pharisee, as he himself informs us, in his own Life, sect. 2. And his
account of this doctrine of the Pharisees is for certain agreeable to his own opinion, who
ever both fully allowed the freedom of human actions, and yet strongly believed the powerful
interposition of Divine Providence. See concerning this matter a remarkable clause, Antiq.
B. XVI. ch. 11. sect. 7.

[12] This king, who was of the famous race of Arsaces, is bethused to call them; but by the
elder author of the First Maccahere, and 1 Macc. 14:2, called by the family name Arsaces; was,
the king of the Persians and Medes, according to the land but Appion says his proper name was
Phraates. He is language of the Eastern nations. See Authent. Rec. Part II. also called by
Josephus the king of the Parthians, as the Greeks p. 1108.

[13] There is some error in the copies here, when no more than four years are ascribed to the
high priesthood of Jonathan. We know by Josephus's last Jewish chronology, Antiq. B. XX. ch.
10., that there was an interval of seven years between the death of Alcimus, or Jacimus, the
last high priest, and the real high priesthood of Jonathan, to whom yet those seven years seem
here to be ascribed, as a part of them were to Judas before, Antiq. B. XII. ch. 10. sect. 6.
Now since, besides these seven years interregnum in the pontificate, we are told, Antiq. B.
XX. ch. 10., that Jonathan's real high priesthood lasted seven years more, these two seven
years will make up fourteen years, which I suppose was Josephus's own number in this place,
instead of the four in our present copies.

[14] These one hundred and seventy years of the Assyrians mean no more, as Josephus explains
himself here, than from the sara of Seleucus, which as it is known to have began on the 312th
year before the Christian sara, from its spring in the First Book of Maccabees, and from its
autumn in the Second Book of Maccabees, so did it not begin at Babylon till the next spring,
on the 311th year. See Prid. at the year 312. And it is truly observed by Dr. Hudson on this
place, that the Syrians and Assyrians are sometimes confounded in ancient authors, according
to the words of Justin, the epitomiser of Trogus-pompeius, who says that "the Assyrians were
afterward called Syrian." B. I. ch. 11. See Of the War, B. V. ch. 9. sect. 4, where the Philistines
themselves, at the very south limit of Syria, in its utmost extent, are called Assyrians by
Josephus as Spanheim observes.

[15] It must here be diligently noted, that Josephus's copy of the First Book of Maccabees,
which he had so carefully followed, and faithfully abridged, as far as the fiftieth verse of
the thirteenth chapter, seems there to have ended. What few things there are afterward common
to both, might probably be learned by him from some other more imperfect records. However,
we must exactly observe here, what the remaining part of that book of the Maccabees informs
us of, and what Josephus would never have omitted, had his copy contained so much, that this
Simon the Great, the Maccabee, made a league with Antiochus Soter, the son of Demetrius Soter,
and brother of the other Demetrius, who was now a captive in Parthis: that upon his coming
to the crown, about the 140th year before the Christian sets, he granted great privileges to
the Jewish nation, and to Simon their high priest and ethnarch; which privileges Simon seems
to have taken of his own accord about three years before. In particular, he gave him leave
to coin money for his country with his own stamp; and as concerning Jerusalem and the sanctuary,
that they should be free, or, as the vulgar Latin hath it, "holy and free," 1 Macc. 15:6, 7,
which I take to be the truer reading, as being the very words of his father's concession offered
to Jonathan several years before, ch. 10:31; and Antiq. B, XIII. ch. 2. sect. 3. Now what makes
this date and these grants greatly remarkable, is the state of the remaining genuine shekels
of the Jews with Samaritan characters, which seem to have been [most of them at least] coined
in the first four years of this Simon the Asamonean, and having upon them these words on one
side, "Jerusalem the Holy;" and on the reverse, "In the Year of Freedom," 1, or 2, or 3, or
4; which shekels therefore are original monuments of these times, and undeniable marks of the
truth of the history in these chapters, though it be in great measure omitted by Josephus.
See Essay on the Old Test. p. 157, 158. The reason why I rather suppose that his copy of the
Maccabees wanted these chapters, than that his own copies are here imperfect, is this, that
all their contents are not here omitted, though much the greatest part be.

[16] How Trypho killed this Antiochus the epitome of Livy informs us, ch. 53, viz. that he
corrupted his physicians or surgeons, who falsely pretending to the people that he was perishing
with the stone, as they cut him for it, killed him, which exactly agrees with Josephus.

[17] That this Antiochus, the son of Alexander Balas, was called "The God," is evident from
his coins, which Spanheim assures us bear this inscription, "King Antiochus the God, Epiphanes
the Victorious."

[18] Here Josephus begins to follow and to abridge the next sacred Hebrew book, styled in the
end of the First Book of Maccabees, "The Chronicle of John [Hyrcanus's] high priesthood;" but
in some of the Greek copies," The Fourth Book of Maccabees." A Greek version of this chronicle
was extant not very long ago in the days of Sautes Pagninus, and Sixtus Senensis, at Lyons,
though it seems to have been there burnt, and to be utterly lost. See Sixtus Senensis's account
of it, of its many Hebraisms, and its great agreement with Josephus's abridgement, in the Authent.
Rec. Part I. p. 206, 207, 208.

[19] Hence we learn, that in the days of this excellent high priest, John Hyrcanus, the observation
of the Sabbatic year, as Josephus supposed, required a rest from war, as did that of the weekly
sabbath from work; I mean this, unless in the case of necessity, when the Jews were attacked
by their enemies, in which case indeed, and in which alone, they then allowed defensive fighting
to be lawful, even on the sabbath day, as we see in several places of Josephus, Antlq. B. XII.
ch. 6. sect. 2; B. XIII. ch. 1. sect. 2; Of the War, B. I. ch. 7. sect. 3. But then it must
be noted, that this rest from war no way appears in the First Book of Maccabees, ch. 16., but
the direct contrary; though indeed the Jews, in the days of Antiochus Epiphanes, did not venture
upon fighting on the Sabbath day, even in the defense of their own lives, till the Asamoneans
or Maccabees decreed so to do, 1 Macc. 2:32-41; Antiq. B. XII. ch. 6. sect. 2.

[20] Josephus's copies, both Greek and Latin, have here a gross mistake, when they say that
this first year of John Hyrcanus, which we have just now seen to have been a Sabbatic year,
was in the 162nd olympiad, whereas it was for certain the second year of the 161st. See the
like before, B. XII. ch. 7. sect. 6.

[21] This heliacal setting of the Pleiades, or seven stars, was, in the days of Hyrcanus and
Josephus, early in the spring, about February, the time of the latter rain in Judea; and this,
so far as I remember, is the only astronomical character of time, besides one eclipse of the
moon in the reign of Herod, that we meet with in all Josephus; the Jews being little accustomed
to astronomical observations, any further than for the uses of their calendar, and utterly
forbidden those astrological uses which the heathens commonly made of them.

[22] Dr. Hudson tells us here, that this custom of gilding the horns of those oxen that were
to be sacrificed is a known thing both in the poets and orators.

[23] This account in Josephus, that the present Antiochus was persuaded, though in vain, not
to make peace with the Jews, but to cut them off utterly, is fully confirmed by Diodorus Siculus,
in Photiua's extracts out of his 34th Book.

[24] The Jews were not to march or journey on the sabbath, or on such a great festival as was
equivalent to the sabbath, any farther than a sabbath day's journey, or two thousand cubits,
see the note on Antiq. B. XX. ch. 8. sect. 6.

[25] This account of the Idumeans admitting circumcision, and the entire Jewish law, from this
time, or from the days of Hyrcanus, is confirmed by their entire history afterward. See Antiq.
B. XIV. ch. 8. sect. 1; B. XV. ch. 7. sect. 9. Of the War, B. II. ch. 3. sect. 1; B. IV. ch.
4. sect. 5. This, in the opinion of Josephus, made them proselytes of justice, or entire Jews,
as here and elsewhere, Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 8. sect. 1. However, Antigonus, the enemy of Herod,
though Herod were derived from such a proselyte of justice for several generations, will allow
him to be no more than a half Jew, B. XV. ch. 15. sect. 2. But still, take out of Dean Prideaux,
at the year 129, the words of Ammouius, a grammarian, which fully confirm this account of the
Idumeans in Josephus: "The Jews," says he, are such by nature, and from the beginning, whilst
the Idumeans were not Jews from the beginning, but Phoenicians and Syrians; but being afterward
subdued by the Jews, and compelled to be circumcised, and to unite into one nation, and be
subject to the same laws, they were called Jews." Dio also says, as the Dean there quotes him,
from Book XXXVI. p. 37, "That country is called Judea, and the people Jews; and this name is
given also to as many others as embrace their religion, though of other nations." But then
upon what foundation so good a governor as Hyrcanus took upon him to compel those Idumeans
either to become Jews, or to leave the country, deserves great consideration. I suppose it
was because they had long ago been driven out of the land of Edom, and had seized on and possessed
the tribe of Simeon, and all the southern parts of the tribe of Judah, which was the peculiar
inheritance of the worshippers of the true God without idolatry, as the reader may learn from
Reland, Palestine, Part I. p. 154, 305; and from Prideaux, at the years 140 and 165.

[26] In this decree of the Roman senate, it seems that these ambassadors were sent from the
"people of the Jews," as well as from their prince or high priest, John Hyrcanus.

[27] Dean Prideaux takes notice at the year 130, that Justin, in agreement with Josephus, says,
"The power of the Jews was now grown so great, that after this Antiochus they would not bear
any Macedonian king over them; and that they set up a government of their own, and infested
Syria with great wars."

[28] The original of the Sadducees, as a considerable party among the Jews, being contained
in this and the two following sections, take Dean Prideaux's note upon this their first public
appearance, which I suppose to be true: "Hyrcanus," says be, "went over to the party of the
Sadducees; that is, by embracing their doctrine against the traditions of the eiders, added
to the written law, and made of equal authority with it, but not their doctrine against the
resurrection and a future state; for this cannot be supposed of so good and righteous a man
as John Hyrcanus is said to be. It is most probable, that at this time the Sadducees had gone
no further in the doctrines of that sect than to deny all their unwritten traditions, which
the Pharisees were so fond of; for Josephus mentions no other difference at this time between
them; neither doth he say that Hyrcanna went over to the Sadducees in any other particular
than in the abolishing of all the traditionary constitutions of the Pharisees, which our Savior
condemned as well as they." [At the year.]

[29] This slander, that arose from a Pharisee, has been preserved by their successors the Rabbins
to these later ages; for Dr. Hudson assures us that David Gantz, in his Chronology, S. Pr.
p. 77, in Vorstius's version, relates that Hyrcanus's mother was taken captive in Mount Modinth.
See ch. 13. sect. 5.

[30] Here ends the high priesthood, and the life of this excellent person John Hyrcanus, and
together with him the holy theocracy, or Divine government of the Jewish nation, and its concomitant
oracle by Urim. Now follows the profane and tyrannical Jewish monarchy, first of the Asamoneans
or Maccabees, and then of Herod the Great, the Idumean, till the coming of the Messiah. See
the note on Antiq. B. III. ch. 8. sect. 9. Hear Strabo's testimony on this occasion, B. XVI.
p. 761, 762: "Those," says he, "that succeeded Moses continued for some time in earnest, both
in righteous actions and in piety; but after a while there were others that took upon them
the high priesthood, at first superstitious and afterward tyrannical persons. Such a prophet
was Moses and those that succeeded him, beginning in a way not to be blamed, but changing for
the worse. And when it openly appeared that the government was become tyrannical, Alexander
was the first that set up himself for a king instead of a priest; and his sons were Hyrcanus
and Aristobulus." All in agreement with Josephus, excepting this, that Strabo omits the first
king, Aristobulus, who reigning but a single year, seems hardly to have come to his knowledge.
Nor indeed does Aristobulus, the son of Alexander, pretend that the name of king was taken
before his father Alexander took it himself, Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 3. sect. 2. See also ch. 12.
sect. l, which favor Strabo also. And indeed, if we may judge from the very different characters
of the Egyptian Jews under high priests, and of the Palestine Jews under kings, in the two
next centuries, we may well suppose that the Divine Shechinah was removed into Egypt, and that
the worshippers at the temple of Onias were better men than those at the temple of Jerusalem.

[31] Hence we learn that the Essens pretended to have ruled whereby men might foretell things
to come, and that this Judas the Essen taught those rules to his scholars; but whether their
pretense were of an astrological or magical nature, which yet in such religious Jews, who were
utterly forbidden such arts, is no way probable, or to any Bath Col, spoken of by the later
Rabbins, or otherwise, I cannot tell. See Of the War, B. II. ch. 8. sect. 12.

[32] The reason why Hyrcanus suffered not this son of his whom he did not love to come into
Judea, but ordered him to be brought up in Galilee, is suggested by Dr. Hudson, that Galilee
was not esteemed so happy and well cultivated a country as Judea, Matthew 26:73; John 7:52;
Acts 2:7, although another obvious reason occurs also, that he was out of his sight in Galilee
than he would have been in Judea.

[33] From these, and other occasional expressions, dropped by Josephus, we may learn, that
where the sacred hooks of the Jews were deficient, he had several other histories then extant,
[but now most of them lost,] which he faithfully followed in his own history; nor indeed have
we any other records of those times, relating to Judea, that can be compared to these accounts
of Josephus, though when we do meet with authentic fragments of such original records, they
almost always confirm his history.

[34] This city, or island, Cos, is not that remote island in the Aegean Sea, famous for the
birth of the great Hippocrates, but a city or island of the same name adjoining to Egypt, mentioned
both by Stephanus and Ptolemy, as Dr. Mizon informs us. Of which Cos, and the treasures there
laid up by Cleopatra and the Jews, see Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 7, sect. 2.

[35] This account of the death of Antiochus Grypus is confirmed by Appion, Syriac. p. 132,
here cited by Spanheim.

[36] Porphyry says that this Antiochus Grypus reigned but twenty-six years, as Dr. Hudson observes.
The copies of Josephus, both Greek and Latin, have here so grossly false a reading, Antiochus
and Antoninus, or Antonius Plus, for Antiochus Pius, that the editors are forced to correct
the text from the other historians, who all agree that this king's name was nothing more than
Antiochus Plus.

[37] These two brothers, Antiochus and Philippus are called twins by Porphyry; the fourth brother
was king of Damascus: both which are the observations of Spanheim.

[38] This Laodicea was a city of Gilead beyond Jordan. However, Porphyry says that this Antiochus
Pius did not die in this battle; but, running away, was drowned in the river Orontes. Appian
says that he, was deprived of the kingdom of Syria by Tigranes; but Porphyry makes this Laodice
queen of the Calamans;-all which is noted by Spanheim. In such confusion of the later historians,
we have no reason to prefer any of them before Josephus, who had more original ones before
him. This reproach upon Alexander, that he was sprung from a captive, seems only the repetition
of the old Pharisaical calumny upon his father, ch. 10. sect. 5.

[39] This Theodorus was the son of Zeno, and was in possession of Areathus, as we learn from
sect. 3 foregoing.

[40] This name Thracida, which the Jews gave Alexander, must, by the coherence, denote as barbarous
as a Thracian, or somewhat like it; but what it properly signifies is not known.

[41] Spanheim takes notice that this Antiochus Dionysus [the brother of Philip, and of Demetrius
Eucerus, and of two others] was the fifth son of Antiochus Grypus; and that he is styled on
the coins, "Antiochus, Epiphanes, Dionysus."

[42] This Aretas was the first king of the Arabians who took Damascus, and reigned there; which
name became afterwards common to such Arabian kings, both at Petra and at Damascus, as we learn
from Josephus in many places; and from St. Paul, 2 Corinthians 11:32. See the note on Antiq.
B. XVI. ch. 9. sect. 4.

[43] We may here and elsewhere take notice, that whatever countries or cities the Asamoneans
conquered from any of the neighboring nations, or whatever countries or cities they gained
from them that had not belonged to them before, they, after the days of Hyrcanus, compelled
the inhabitants to leave their idolatry, and entirely to receive the law of Moses, as proselytes
of justice, or else banished them into other lands. That excellent prince, John Hyrcanus, did
it to the Idumeans, as I have noted on ch. 9. sect. 1, already, who lived then in the Promised
Land, and this I suppose justly; but by what right the rest did it, even to the countries or
cities that were no part of that land, I do not at all know. This looks too like unjust persecution
for religion.

[44] It seems, by this dying advice of Alexander Janneus to his wife, that he had himself pursued
the measures of his father Hyrcanus and taken part with the Sadducees, who kept close to the
written law, against the Pharisees, who had introduced their own traditions, ch. 16. sect.
2; and that he now saw a political necessity of submitting to the Pharisees and their traditions
hereafter, if his widow and family minded to retain their monarchical government or tyranny
over the Jewish nation; which sect yet, thus supported, were at last in a great measure the
ruin of the religion, government, and nation of the Jews, and brought them into so wicked a
state, that the vengeance of God came upon them to their utter excision. Just thus did Caiaphas
politically advise the Jewish sanhedrim, John 11:50, "That it was expedient for them that one
man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not;" and this in consequence
of their own political supposal, ver. 48, that, "If they let Jesus alone," with his miracles,
"all men would believe on him, and the Romans would come and take away both their place and
nation." Which political crucifixion of Jesus of Nazareth brought down the vengeance of God
upon them, and occasioned those very Romans, of whom they seemed so much afraid, that to prevent
it they put him to death, actually to "come and take away both their place and nation" within
thirty-eight years afterwards. I heartily wish the politicians of Christendom would consider
these and the like examples, and no longer sacrifice all virtue and religion to their pernicious
schemes of government, to the bringing down the judgments of God upon themselves, and the several
nations intrusted to their care. But this is a digression. I wish it were an unseasonable one
also. Josephus himself several times makes such digressions, and I here venture to follow him.
See one of them at the conclusion of the very next chapter.

[45] The number of five hundred thousand or even three hundred thousand, as one Greek copy,
with the Latin copies, have it, for Tigranes's army, that came out of Armenia into Syria and
Judea, seems much too large. We have had already several such extravagant numbers in Josephus's
present copies, which are not to be at all ascribed to him. Accordingly, I incline to Dr. Hudson's
emendation here, which supposes them but forty thousand.

[46] This fortress, castle, citadel, or tower, whither the wife and children of Aristobulus
were new sent, and which overlooked the temple, could be no other than what Hyrcanus I. built,
[Antiq. B. XVIII ch. 4. sect. 3,] and Herod the Great rebuilt, and called the "Tower of Antonia,"
Aatiq. B. XV. ch. 11. sect. 5.

BOOK 14 FOOTNOTES

[1] Reland takes notice here, very justly, how Josephus's declaration, that it was his great
concern not only to write "an agreeable, an accurate," and "a true" history, but also distinctly
not to omit any thing [of consequence], either through "ignorance or laziness," implies that
he could not, consistently with that resolution, omit the mention of [so famous a person as]
"Jesus Christ."

[2] That the famous Antipater's or Antipas's father was also Antipater or Antipas [which two
may justly be esteemed one and the same frame, the former with a Greek or Gentile, the latter
with a Hebrew or Jewish termination] Josephus here assures us, though Eusebias indeed says
it was Herod.

[3] This "golden vine," or "garden," seen by Strabo at Rome, has its inscription here as if
it were the gift of Alexander, the father of Aristobulus, and not of Aristobulus himself, to
whom yet Josephus ascribes it; and in order to prove the truth of that part of his history,
introduces this testimony of Strabo; so that the ordinary copies seem to be here either erroneous
or defective, and the original reading seems to have been either Aristobulus, instead of Alexander,
with one Greek copy, or else "Aristobulus the son of Alexander," with the Latin copies; which
last seems to me the most probable. For as to Archbishop Usher's conjectures, that Alexander
made it, and dedicated it to God in the temple, and that thence Aristobulus took it, and sent
it to Pompey, they are both very improbable, and no way agreeable to Josephus, who would hardly
have avoided the recording both these uncommon points of history, had he known any thing of
them; nor would either the Jewish nation, or even Pompey himself, then have relished such a
flagrant instance of sacrilege.

[4] These express testimonies of Josephus here, and Antiq. B. VIII. ch. 6. sect. 6, and B.
XV. ch. 4. sect. 2, that the only balsam gardens, and the best palm trees, were, at least in
his days, near Jericho and Kugaddi, about the north part of the Dead Sea, [whereabout also
Alexander the Great saw the balsam drop,] show the mistake of those that understand Eusebius
and Jerom as if one of those gardens were at the south part of that sea, at Zoar or Segor,
whereas they must either mean another Zoar or Segor, which was between Jericho and Kugaddi,
agreeably to Josephus: which yet they do not appear to do, or else they directly contradict
Josephus, and were therein greatly mistaken: I mean this, unless that balsam, and the best
palm trees, grew much more southward in Judea in the days of Eusebius and Jerom than they did
in the days of Josephus.

[5] The particular depth and breadth of this ditch, whence the stones for the wall about the
temple were probably taken, are omitted in our copies of Josephus, but set down by Strabo,
B. XVI. p. 763; from whom we learn that this ditch was sixty feet deep, and two hundred and
fifty feet broad. However, its depth is, in the next section, said by Josephus to be immense,
which exactly agrees to Strabo's description, and which numbers in Strabo are a strong confirmation
of the truth of Josephus's description also.

[6] That is, on the 23rd of Sivan, the annual fast for the defection and idolatry of Jeroboam,
"who made Israel to sin;" or possibly some other fast might fall into that month, before and
in the days of Josephus.

[7] It deserves here to be noted, that this Pharisaical, superstitious notion, that offensive
fighting was unlawful to Jews, even under the utmost necessity, on the Sabbath day, of which
we hear nothing before the times of the Maccabees, was the proper occasion of Jerusalem's being
taken by Pompey, by Sosius, and by Titus, as appears from the places already quoted in the
note on Antiq. B. XIII. ch. 8. sect. 1; which scrupulous superstition, as to the observation
of such a rigorous rest upon the Sabbath day, our Savior always opposed, when the Pharisaical
Jews insisted on it, as is evident in many places in the New Testament, though he still intimated
how pernicious that superstition might prove to them in their flight from the Romans, Matthew
25:20.

[8] This is fully confirmed by the testimony of Cicero, who: says, in his oration for Flaecus,
that "Cneius Pompeius, when he was conqueror, and had taken Jerusalem, did not touch any thing
belonging to that temple."

[9] Of this destruction of Gadara here presupposed, and its restoration by Pompey, see the
note on the War, B. I. ch. 7. sect. 7.

[10] Dean Prideaux well observes, "That notwithstanding the clamor against Gabinius at Rome,
Josephus gives him a able character, as if he had acquitted himself with honor in the charge
committed to him" [in Judea]. See at the year 55.

[11] This history is best illustrated by Dr. Hudson out of Livy, who says that "A. Gabinius,
the proconsul, restored Ptolemy of Pompey and Gabinius against the Jews, while neither of them
say any thing new which is not in the other to his kingdom of Egypt, and ejected Archelaus,
whom they had set up for king," &c. See Prid. at the years 61 and 65.

[12] Dr. Hudson observes, that the name of this wife of Antipater in Josephus was Cypros, as
a Hebrew termination, but not Cypris, the Greek name for Venus, as some critics were ready
to correct it.

[13] Take Dr. Hudson's note upon this place, which I suppose to be the truth: "Here is some
mistake in Josephus; for when he had promised us a decree for the restoration of Jerusalem
he brings in a decree of far greater antiquity, and that a league of friendship and union only.
One may easily believe that Josephus gave order for one thing, and his amanuensis performed
another, by transposing decrees that concerned the Hyrcani, and as deluded by the sameness
of their names; for that belongs to the first high priest of this name, [John Hyrcanus,] which
Josephus here ascribes to one that lived later [Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander Janneus]. However,
the decree which he proposes to set down follows a little lower, in the collection of Raman
decrees that concerned the Jews and is that dated when Caesar was consul the fifth time." See
ch. 10. sect. 5.

[14] Those who will carefully observe the several occasional numbers and chronological characters
in the life and death of this Herod, and of his children, hereafter noted, will see that twenty-five
years, and not fifteen, must for certain have been here Josephus's own number for the age of
Herod, when he was made governor of Galilee. See ch. 23. sect. 5, and ch. 24. sect. 7; and
particularly Antiq. B. XVII. ch. 8. sect. 1, where about forty-four years afterwards Herod
dies an old man at about seventy.

[15] It is here worth our while to remark, that none could be put to death in Judea but by
the approbation of the Jewish Sanhedrim, there being an excellent provision in the law of Moses,
that even in criminal causes, and particularly where life was concerned, an appeal should lie
from the lesser councils of seven in the other cities to the supreme council of seventy-one
at Jerusalem; and that is exactly according to our Savior's words, when he says, "It could
not be that a prophet should perish out of Jerusalem," Luke 13:33.

[16] This account, as Reland observes, is confirmed by the Talmudists, who call this Sameas,
"Simeon, the son of Shetach."

[17] That Hyreanus was himself in Egypt, along with Antipater, at this time, to whom accordingly
the bold and prudent actions of his deputy Antipater are here ascribed, as this decree of Julius
Caesar supposes, we are further assured by the testimony of Strabo, already produced by Josephus,
ch. 8. sect. 3.

[18] Dr. Hudson justly supposes that the Roman imperators, or generals of armies, meant both
here and sect. 2, who gave testimony to Hyrcanus's and the Jews' faithfulness and goodwill
to the Romans before the senate and people of Rome, were principally Pompey, Scaurus, and Gabinius;
of all whom Josephus had already given us the history, so far as the Jews were concerned with them.

[19] We have here a most remarkable and authentic attestation of the citizens of Pergamus,
that Abraham was the father of all the Hebrews; that their own ancestors were, in the oldest
times, the friends of those Hebrews; and that the public arts of their city, then extant, confirmed
the same; which evidence is too strong to be evaded by our present ignorance of the particular
occasion of such ancient friendship and alliance between those people. See the like full evidence
of the kindred of the Lacedemonians and the Jews; and that became they were both of the posterity
of Abraham, by a public epistle of those people to the Jews, preserved in the First Book of
the Maccabees, 12:19-23; and thence by Josephus, Antiq. B. XII. ch. 4 sect. 10; both which
authentic records are highly valuable. It is also well worthy of observation, what Moses Chorenensis,
the principal Armenian historian, informs us of, p. 83, that Arsaces, who raised the Parthian
empire, was of the seed of Abraham by Chetura; and that thereby was accomplished that prediction
which said, "Kings of nations shall proceed from thee," Genesis 17:6.

[20] If we compare Josephus's promise in sect. 1, to produce all the public decrees of the
Romans in favor of the Jews, with his excuse here for omitting many of them, we may observe,
that when he came to transcribe all those decrees he had collected, he found them so numerous,
that he thought he should too much tire his readers if he had attempted it, which he thought
a sufficient apology for his omitting the rest of them; yet do those by him produced afford
such a strong confirmation to his history, and give such great light to even the Roman antiquities
themselves, that I believe the curious are not a little sorry for such his omissions.

[21] For Marcus, this president of Syria, sent as successor to Sextus Caesar, the Roman historians
require us to read "Marcus" in Josephus, and this perpetually, both in these Antiquities, and
in his History of the Wars, as the learned generally agree.

[22] In this and the following chapters the reader will easily remark, how truly Gronovius
observes, in his notes on the Roman decrees in favor of the Jews, that their rights and privileges
were commonly purchased of the Romans with money. Many examples of this sort, both as to the
Romans and others in authority, will occur in our Josephus, both now and hereafter, and need
not be taken particular notice of on the several occasions in these notes. Accordingly, the
chief captain confesses to St. Paul that "with a great sum he had obtained his freedom," Acts
22:28; as had St. Paul's ancestors, very probably, purchased the like freedom for their family
by money, as the same author justly concludes also.

[23] This clause plainly alludes to that well-known but unusual and very long darkness of the
sun which happened upon the murder of Julius Cesar by Brutus and Cassius, which is greatly
taken notice of by Virgil, Pliny, and other Roman authors. See Virgil's Georgics, B. I., just
before the end; and Pliny's Nat. Hist. B. IL ch. 33.

[24] We may here take notice that espousals alone were of old esteemed a sufficient foundation
for affinity, Hyrcanus being here called father-in-law to Herod because his granddaughter Mariarune
was betrothed to him, although the marriage was not completed till four years afterwards. See
Matthew 1:16.

[25] This law of Moses, that the priests were to be "without blemish," as to all the parts
of their bodies, is in Leviticus 21:17-24

[26] Concerning the chronology of Herod, and the time when he was first made king at Rome,
and concerning the time when he began his second reign, without a rival, upon the conquest
and slaughter of Antigonus, both principally derived from this and the two next chapters in
Josephus, see the note on sect. 6, and ch. 15. sect. 10.

[27] This grievous want of water at Masada, till the place had like to have been taken by the
Parthians, [mentioned both here, and Of the War, B. I. ch. 15. sect. 1,] is an indication that
it was now summer time.

[28] This affirmation of Antigonus, spoken in the days of Herod, and in a manner to his face,
that he was an Idumean, i.e. a half Jew, seems to me of much greater authority than that pretense
of his favorite and flatterer Nicolaus of Damascus, that he derived his pedigree from Jews
as far backward as the Babylonish captivity, ch. 1. sect. 3. Accordingly Josephus always esteems
him an Idumean, though he says his father Antipater was of the same people with the Jews, ch.
viii. sect. 1. and by birth a Jew, Antiq. B. XX. ch. 8. sect. 7; as indeed all such proselytes
of justice, as the Idumeans, were in time esteemed the very same people with the Jews.

[29] It may be worth our observation here, that these soldiers of Herod could not have gotten
upon the tops of these houses which were full of enemies, in order to pull up the upper floors,
and destroy them beneath, but by ladders from the out side; which illustrates some texts in
the New Testament, by which it appears that men used to ascend thither by ladders on the outsides.
See Matthew 24:17; Mark 13:15; Luke 5:19; 17:31.

[30] Note here, that Josephus fully and frequently assures us that there passed above three
years between Herod's first obtaining the kingdom at Rome, and his second obtaining it upon
the taking of Jerusalem and death of Antigonus. The present history of this interval twice
mentions the army going into winter quarters, which perhaps belonged to two several winters,
ch. 15. sect. 3, 4; and though Josephus says nothing how long they lay in those quarters, yet
does he give such an account of the long and studied delays of Ventidius, Silo, and Macheras,
who were to see Herod settled in his new kingdom, but seem not to have had sufficient forces
for that purpose, and were for certain all corrupted by Antigonus to make the longest delays
possible, and gives us such particular accounts of the many great actions of Herod during the
same interval, as fairly imply that interval, before Herod went to Samosata, to have been very
considerable. However, what is wanting in Josephus, is fully supplied by Moses Chorenensis,
the Armenian historian, in his history of that interval, B. II ch. 18., where he directly assures
us that Tigranes, then king of Armenia, and the principal manager of this Parthian war, reigned
two years after Herod was made king at Rome, and yet Antony did not hear of his death, in that
very neighborhood, at Samosata, till he was come thither to besiege it; after which Herod brought
him an army, which was three hundred and forty miles' march, and through a difficult country,
full of enemies also, and joined with him in the siege of Samosata till that city was taken;
then Herod and Sosins marched back with their large armies the same number of three hundred
and forty miles; and when, in a little time, they sat down to besiege Jerusalem, they were
not able to take it but by a siege of five months. All which put together, fully supplies what
is wanting in Josephus, and secures the entire chronology of these times beyond contradiction.

BOOK 15 FOOTNOTES

[1] The city here called "Babylon" by Josephus, seems to be one which was built by some of
the Seleucidae upon the Tigris, which long after the utter desolation of old Babylon was commonly
so called, and I suppose not far from Seleueia; just as the latter adjoining city Bagdat has
been and is often called by the same old name of Babylon till this very day.

[2] Here we have an eminent example of Herod's worldly and profane politics, when by the abuse
of his unlawful and usurped power, to make whom he pleased high priest, in the person of Ananelus,
he occasioned such disturbances in his kingdom, and in his own family, as suffered him to enjoy
no lasting peace or tranquillity ever afterward; and such is frequently the effect of profane
court politics about matters of religion in other ages and nations. The case is too well known
to stand in need of particular citations.

[3] Of this wicked Dellius, see the note on the War, B. I. ch. 15. sect. 3.

[4] When Josephus says here that this Ananelus, the new high priest, was "of the stock of the
high priests," and since he had been just telling us that he was a priest of an obscure family
or character, ch. 2. sect. 4, it is not at all probable that he could so soon say that he was
"of the stock of the high priests." However, Josephus here makes a remarkable observation,
that this Ananelus was the third that was ever unjustly and wickedly turned out of the high
priesthood by the civil power, no king or governor having ventured to do so, that Josephus
knew of, but that heathen tyrant and persecutor Antiochus Epiphanes; that barbarous parricide
Aristobulus, the first that took royal authority among the Maccabees; and this tyrant king
Herod the Great, although afterward that infamous practice became frequent, till the very destruction
of Jerusalem, when the office of high priesthood was at an end.

[5] This entirely confutes the Talmudists, who pretend that no one under twenty years of age
could officiate as high priest among the Jews.

[6] A Hebrew chronicle, cited by Reland, says this drowning was at Jordan, not at Jericho,
and this even when he quote Josephus. I suspect the transcriber of the Hebrew chronicle mistook
the name, and wrote Jordan for Jericho.

[7] The reading of one of Josephus's Greek MSS. seems here to be right, that Aristobulus was
"not eighteen years old" when he was drowned, for he was not seventeen when he was made high
priest, ch. 2. sect. 6, ch. 3. sect. 3, and he continued in that office but one year, as in
the place before us.

[8] The reader is here to take notice, that this seventh year of the reign of Herod, and all
the other years of his reign, in Josephus, are dated from the death of Antigonus, or at the
soonest from the conclusion of Antigonus, and the taking of Jerusalem a few months before,
and never from his first obtaining the kingdom at Rome, above three years before, as some have
very weakly and injudiciously done.

[9] Herod says here, that as ambassadors were sacred when they carried messages to others,
so did the laws of the Jews derive a sacred authority by being delivered from God by angels,
[or Divine ambassadors,] which is St. Paul's expression about the same laws, Galatians 3:19;
Hebrews 2;2.

[10] This piece of religion, the supplicating God with sacrifices, by Herod, before he went
to this fight with the Arabians, taken notice of also in the first book of the War, ch. 19.
sect. 5, is worth remarking, because it is the only example of this nature, so far as I remember,
that Josephus ever mentions in all his large and particular accounts of this Herod; and it
was when he had been in mighty distress, and discouraged by a great defeat of his former army,
and by a very great earthquake in Judea, such times of affliction making men most religious;
nor was he disappointed of his hopes here, but immediately gained a most signal victory over
the Arabians, while they who just before had been so great victors, and so much elevated upon
the earthquake in Judea as to venture to slay the Jewish ambassadors, were now under a strange
consternation, and hardly able to fight at all.

[11] Whereas Mariamne is here represented as reproaching: Herod with the murder of her father
[Alexander], as well as her brother [Aristobulus], while it was her grandfather Hyrcanus, and
not her father Alexander, whom he caused to be slain, [as Josephus himself informs us, ch.
6. sect. 2,] we must either take Zonaras's reading, which is here grandfather, rightly, or
else we must, as before, ch. 1. sect. 1, allow a slip of Josephus's pen or memory in the place
before us.

[12] Here is a plain example of a Jewish lady giving a bill of divorce to her husband, though
in the days of Josephus it was not esteemed lawful for a woman so to do. See the like among
the Parthians, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. 9. sect. 6. However, the Christian law, when it allowed
divorce for adultery, Matthew 5:32, allowed the innocent wife to divorce her guilty husband,
as well as the innocent husband to divorce his guilty wife, as we learn from the shepherd of
Hermas, Mand. B. IV., and from: the second apology of Justin Martyr, where a persecution was
brought upon the Christians upon such a divorce; and I think the Roman laws permitted it at
that time, as well as the laws of Christianity. Now this Babas, who was one of the race of
the Asamoneans or Maccabees, as the latter end of this section informs us, is related by the
Jews, as Dr. Hudson here remarks, to have been so eminently religious in the Jewish way, that,
except the day following the tenth of Tisri, the great day of atonement, when he seems to have
supposed all his sins entirely forgiven, he used every day of the whole year to offer a sacrifice
for his sins of ignorance, or such as he supposed he had been guilty of, but did not distinctly
remember. See somewhat like it of Agrippa the Great, Antiq. B. XIX. ch. 3. sect. 3, and Job 1:4, 5.

[13] These grand plays, and shows, and Thymelici, or music meetings, and chariot races, when
the chariots were drawn by two, three, or four pair of horses, etc., instituted by Herod in
his theatres, were still, as we see here, looked on by the sober Jews as heathenish sports,
and tending to corrupt the manners of the Jewish nation, and to bring them in love with paganish
idolatry, and paganish conduct of life, but to the dissolution of the law of Moses, and accordingly
were greatly and justly condemned by them, as appears here and every where else in Josephus.
Nor is the case of our modern masquerades, plays, operas, and the like "pomps and vanities
of this wicked world," of any better tendency under Christianity.

[14] Here we have an eminent example of the language of Josephus in his writing to Gentiles,
different from that when he wrote to Jews; in his writing to whom he still derives all such
judgments from the anger of God; but because he knew many of the Gentiles thought they might
naturally come in certain periods, he complies with them in the following sentence. See the
note on the War. B. I. ch. 33. sect. 2.

[15] This famine for two years that affected Judea and Syria, the thirteenth mid fourteenth
years of Herod, which are the twenty-third and twenty-fourth years before the Christian era,
seems to have been more terrible during this time than was that in the days of Jacob, Genesis
41., 42. And what makes the comparison the more remarkable is this, that now, as well as then,
the relief they had was from Egypt also; then from Joseph the governor of Egypt, under Pharaoh
king of Egypt; and now from Petronius the prefect of Egypt, under Augustus the Roman emperor.
See almost the like case, Antiq. B. XX. ch. 2. sect. 6. It is also well worth our observation
here, that these two years were a Sabbatic year, and a year of jubilee, for which Providence,
during the theocracy, used to provide a triple crop beforehand; but became now, when the Jews
had forfeited that blessing, the greatest years of famine to them ever since the days of Ahab,
1 Kings 17., 18.

[16] This Aelius Gallus seems to be no other than that Aelius Lagus whom Dio speaks of as conducting
an expedition that was about this time made into Arabia Felix, according to Betarius, who is
here cited by Spanheim. See a full account of this expedition in Prideaux, at the years 23 and 24.

[17] One may here take notice, that how tyrannical and extravagant soever Herod were in himself,
and in his Grecian cities, as to those plays, and shows, and temples for idolatry, mentioned
above, ch. 8. sect. 1, and here also; yet durst even he introduce very few of them into the
cities of the Jews, who, as Josephus here notes, would not even then have borne them, so zealous
were they still for many of the laws of Moses, even under so tyrannical a government as this
was of Herod the Great; which tyrannical government puts me naturally in mind of Dean Prideaux's
honest reflection upon the like ambition after such tyrannical power in Pompey and Caesar:
"One of these [says he, at the year 60] could not bear an equal, nor the other a superior;
and through this ambitions humor and thirst after more power in these two men, the whole Roman
empire being divided into two opposite factions, there was produced hereby the most destructive
war that ever afflicted it; and the like folly too much reigns in all other places. Could about
thirty men be persuaded to live at home in peace, without enterprising upon the rights of each
other, for the vain glory of conquest, and the enlargement of power, the whole world might
be at quiet; but their ambition, their follies, and their humor, leading them constantly to
encroach upon and quarrel with each other, they involve all that are under them in the mischiefs
thereof; and many thousands are they which yearly perish by it; so that it may almost raise
a doubt, whether the benefit which the world receives from government be sufficient to make
amends for the calamities which it suffers from the follies, mistakes, and real-administrations
of those that manage it."

[18] Cesarea being here said to be rebuilt and adorned in twelve years, and soon afterwards
in ten years, Antiq. B. XVI. ch. 5. sect. 1, there must be a mistake in one of the places as
to the true number, but in which of them it is hard positively to determine.

[19] This Pollio, with whom Herod's sons lived at Rome, was not Pollio the Pharisee, already
mentioned by Josephus, ch. 1. sect. 1, and again presently after this, ch. 10. sect. 4; but
Asinine Pollo, the Roman, as Spanheim here observes.

[20] The character of this Zenodorus is so like that of a famous robber of the same name in
Strabo, and that about this very country, and about this very time also, that I think Dr. Hudson
hardly needed to have put a overlaps to his determination that they were the same.

[21] A tetrarchy properly and originally denoted the fourth part of an entire kingdom or country,
and a tetrarch one that was ruler of such a fourth part, which always implies somewhat less
extent of dominion and power than belong to a kingdom and to a king.

[22] We may here observe, that the fancy of the modern Jews, in calling this temple, which
was really the third of their temples, the second temple, followed so long by later Christians,
seems to be without any solid foundation. The reason why the Christians here followed the Jews
is, because of the prophecy of Haggai, 2:6-9, which they expound of the Messiah's coning to
the second or Zorobabel's temple, of which they suppose this of Herod to be only a continuation;
which is meant, I think, of his coming to the fourth and last temple, of that future, largest,
and most glorious one, described by Ezekiel; whence I take the former notion, how general soever,
to be a great mistake. See Lit. Accorap. of Proph. p. 2.

[23] Some of our modern students in architecture have made a strange blunder here, when they
imagine that Josephus affirms the entire foundations of the temple or holy house sunk down
into the rocky mountain on which it stood no less than twenty cubits, whereas he is clear that
they were the foundations of the additional twenty cubits only above the hundred [made perhaps
weak on purpose, and only for show and grandeur] that sunk or fell down, as Dr. Hudson rightly
understands him; nor is the thing itself possible in the other sense. Agrippa's preparation
for building the inner parts of the temple twenty cubits higher [History of the War, B. V.
ch. 1. sect. 5] must in all probability refer to this matter, since Josephus says here, that
this which had fallen down was designed to be raised up again under Nero, under whom Agrippa
made that preparation. But what Josephus says presently, that Solomon was the first king of
the Jews, appears by the parallel place, Antiq. B. XX. ch. 9. sect. 7, and other places, to
be meant only the first of David's posterity, and the first builder of the temple.

[24] "Into none Of these three did king Herod enter," i.e. 1. Not into the court of the priests;
2. Nor into the holy house itself; 3. Nor into the separate place belonging to the altar, as
the words following imply; for none but priests, or their attendants the Levites, might come
into any of them. See Antiq. B. XVI. ch. 4. sect. 6, when Herod goes into the temple, and makes
a speech in it to the people, but that could only be into the court of Israel, whither the
people could come to hear him.

[25] This tradition which Josephus here mentions, as delivered down from fathers to their children,
of this particular remarkable circumstance relating to the building of Herod's temple, is a
demonstration that such its building was a known thing in Judea at this time. He was born about
forty-six years after it is related to have been finished, and might himself have seen and
spoken with some of the builders themselves, and with a great number of those that had seen
it building. The doubt therefore about the truth of this history of the pulling down and rebuilding
this temple by Herod, which some weak people have indulged, was not then much greater than
it soon may be, whether or not our St. Paul's church in London was burnt down in the fire of
London, A.D. 1666, and rebuilt by Sir Christopher Wren a little afterward.

BOOK 16 FOOTNOTES

[1] We may here observe the ancient practice of the Jews, of dedicating the sabbath day, not
to idleness, but to the learning their sacred rites and religious customs, and to the meditation
on the law of Moses; the like to which we meet with elsewhere in Josephus also against Apion,
B. I. sect. 22.

[2] This interval of ten years for the duration of Marcus Agrippa's government in Asia seems
to be true, and agreeable to the Roman history. See Usher's Annals at A.M. 3392.

[3] Although Herod met Augustus at Aquilei, yet was this accusation of his sons deferred till
they came to Rome, as sect. 3 assures us, and as we are particularly informed in the History
of the War, B. I. ch. 23. sect. 3; though what he here says belonged distinctly to Alexander,
the elder brother, I mean his being brought to Rome, is here justly extended to both the brothers,
and that not only in our copies, but in that of Zonaras also; nor is there reason to doubt
but they were both at this solemn hearing by Augustus, although the defense was made by Alexander
alone, who was the eldest brother, and one that could speak very well.

[4] Since some prejudiced men have indulged a wild suspicion, as we have supposed already,
Antiq. B. XV. ch. 11. sect. 7, that Josephus's history of Herod's rebuilding the temple is
no better than a fable, it may not be amiss to take notice of this occasional clause in the
speech of Alexander before his father Herod, in his and his brother's vindication, which mentions
the temple as known by every body to have been built by Herod.

[5] See John 2:20. See also another speech of Herod's own to the young men that pulled down
his golden eagle from the front of the temple, where he takes notice how the building of the
temple cost him a vast sum; and that the Asamoneans, in those one hundred and twenty-five years
they held the government, were not able to perform so great a work, to the honor of God, as
this was, Antiq. B. XVII. ch. 6. sect. 3.

[6] Dr. Hudson here gives us the words of Suetonius concerning this Nicopolis, when Augustus
rebuilt it: "And that the memory of the victory at Actium might be celebrated the more afterward,
he built Nicopolis at Actium, and appointed public shows to be there exhibited every fifth
year." In August, sect. 18.

[7] Augustus here calls Julius Caesar his father, though by birth he was only his uncle, on
account of his adoption by him. See the same Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 14. sect. 4.

[8] This is authentic evidence that the Jews, in the days of Augustus, began to prepare for
the celebration of the sabbath at the ninth hour on Friday, as the tradition of the elders
did, it seems, then require of them.

[9] The remaining part of this chapter is remarkable, as justly distinguishing natural justice,
religion, and morality, from positive institutions in all countries, and evidently preferring
the former before the latter, as did the true prophets of God always under the Old Testament,
and Christ and his New; whence Josephus seems to have been at this time nearer Christianity
than were the Scribes and Pharisees of his age; who, as we know from the New Testament, were
entirely of a different opinion and practice.

[10] It is here worth our observation, how careful Josephus was as to the discovery of truth
in Herod's history, since he would not follow Nicolaus of Damascus himself, so great an historian,
where there was great reason to suspect that he flattered Herod; which impartiality in history
Josephus here solemnly pro fesses, and of which impartiality he has given more demonstrations
than almost any historian whomsoever; but as to Herod's taking great wealth out of David's
sepulcher, though I cannot prove it, yet do I strongly suspect it from this very history.

[11] These joint presidents of Syria, Saturninus and Volumnius, were not perhaps of equal authority,
but the latter like a procurator under the former, as the very learned Noris and Pagi, and
with them Dr. Hudson, determine.

[12] This Aretas was now become so established a name for the kings of Arabia, [at Petra and
Damascus,] that when the crown came to this Aeneas, he changed his name to Aretas, as Havercamp
here justly observes. See Antiq. B. XIII. ch. 15. sect, 2.

[13] This oath, by the fortune of Caesar, was put to Polycarp, a bishop of Smyrna, by the Roman
governor, to try whether he were a Christian, as they were then esteemed who refused to swear
that oath. Martyr. Polycarp, sect. 9.

[14] What Josephus relates Augustus to have here said, that Berytus was a city belonging to
the Romans, is confirmed by Spanheim's notes here: "It was," says he, "a colony placed there
by Augustus. Whence Ulpian, De Gens. bel. L. T. XV. The colony of Berytus was rendered famous
by the benefits of Caesar; and thence it is that, among the coins of Augustus, we meet with
some having this inscription: The happy colony of Augustus at Berytua."

[15] The reader is here to note, that this eighth section is entirely wanting in the old Latin
version, as Spanheim truly observes; nor is there any other reason for it, I suppose, than
the great difficulty of an exact translation.

BOOK 17 FOOTNOTES

[1] Those who have a mind to know all the family and descendants of Antipater the Idumean,
and of Herod the Great, his son, and have a memory to preserve them all distinctly, may consult
Josephus, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. 5. sect. 4; and Of the War, B. I. ch. 28. sect. 4; in Havercamp's
edition, p. 336; and Spanheim, lb. p. 402--405; and Reland, Paleslin. Part I. p. 178, 176.

[2] This is now wanting.

[3] Pheroras's wife, and her mother and sister, and Doris, Antipater's mother.

[4]His wife, her mother, and sister.

[5] It seems to me, by this whole story put together, that Pheroras was not himself poisoned,
as is commonly supposed; for Antipater had persuaded him to poison Herod, ch. v. sect. 1, which
would fall to the ground if he wore himself poisoned; nor could the poisoning of Pheroras serve
any design that appears now going forward; it was only the supposal of two of his freed-men,
that this love-potion, or poison, which they knew was brought to Pheroras's wife, was made
use of for poisoning him; whereas it appears to have been brought for her husband to poison
Herod withal, as the future examinations demonstrate.

[6] That the making of images, without an intention to worship them, was not unlawful to the
Jews, see the note on Antiq. B VIII. ch. 7. sect. 5. [7] This fact, that one Joseph was made
high priest for a single day, on occasion of the action here specified, that befell Matthias,
the real high priest, in his sleep, the night before the great day of expiation, is attested
to both in the Mishna and Talmud, as Dr. Hudson here informs us. And indeed, from this fact,
thus fully attested, we may confute that pretended rule in the Talmud here mentioned, and endeavored
to be excused lay Reland, that the high priest was not suffered to sleep the night before that
great day of expiation; which watching would surely rather unfit him for the many important
duties he was to perform on that solemn day, than dispose him duly to perform them. Nor do
such Talmudical rules, when unsupported by better evidence, much less when contradicted there
by, seem to me of weight enough to deserve that so great a man as Reland should spend his time
in endeavors at their vindication.

[8] This eclipse of the moon [which is the only eclipse of either of the luminaries mentioned
by our Josephus in any of his writings] is of the greatest consequence for the determination
of the time for the death of Herod and Antipater, and for the birth and entire chronology of
Jesus Christ. It happened March 13th, in the year of the Julian period 4710, and the 4th year
before the Christian era. See its calculation by the rules of astronomy, at the end of the
Astronomical Lectures, edit. Lat. p. 451, 452.

[9] A place for the horse-races.

[10] When it is here said that Philip the tetrarch, and Archelaus the king, or ethnarch, were
own brother, or genuine brothers, if those words mean own brothers, or born of the same father
and mother, there must be here some mistake; because they had indeed the same father, Herod,
but different mothers; the former Cleopatra, and Archclaus Malthace. They were indeed brought
up together privately at Rome like when he went to have his kingdom confirmed to him at Rome,
ch. 9. sect. 5; and Of the War, B. II. ch. 2. sect. 1; which intimacy is perhaps all that Josephus
intended by the words before us.

[11] These numbers of years for Herod's reign, 34 and 37, are the very same with those, Of
the War, B. I. ch. 33. sect. 8, and are among the principal chronological characters belonging
to the reign or death of Herod. See Harm. p. 150--155.

[12] At eight stadia or furlongs a-day, as here, Herod's funeral, conducted to Herodium, which
lay at the distance from Jericho, where he died, of 200 stadia or furlongs, Of the War, B.
1. ch. 33. sect. 9, must have taken up no less than twenty-five days.

[13] This passover, when the sedition here mentioned was moved against Archelaus, was not one,
but thirteen months after the eclipse of the moon already mentioned.

[14] See Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 13. sect. 10; and Of the War; B. II. ch. 12. sect. 9.

[15] These great devastations made about the temple here, and Of the War, B. II. ch. 3. sect.
3, seem not to have been full re-edified in the days of Nero; till whose time there were eighteen
thousand workmen continually employed in rebuilding and repairing that temple, as Josephus
informs us, Antiq. B. XX. ch. 9. sect. 7. See the note on that place.

[16] Unless this Judas, the son of Ezekias, be the same with that Theudas, mentioned Acts 5:36,
Josephus must have omitted him; for that other Thoualas, whom he afterward mentions, under
Fadus the Roman governor, B. XX. ch. 5. sect. 1, is much too late to correspond to him that
is mentioned in the Acts. The names Theudas, Thaddeus, and Judas differ but little. See Archbishop
Usher's Annals at A.M. 4001. However, since Josephus does not pretend to reckon up the heads
of all those ten thousand disorders in Judea, which he tells us were then abroad, see sect.
4 and 8, the Theudas of the Acts might be at the head of one of those seditions, though not
particularly named by him. Thus he informs us here, sect. 6, and Of the War, B. II. ch. 4.
Sect. 2, that certain of the seditious came and burnt the royal palace at Amsthus, or Betharamphta,
upon the river Jordan. Perhaps their leader, who is not named by Josephus, might be this Theudas.

[17] See Of the War, B. II. ch. 2. sect. 3.

[18] See the note, Of the War, B. II. ch. 6. sect. 1.

[19] He was tetrarch afterward.

[20] If any one compare that Divine prediction concerning the tyrannical power which Jewish
kings would exercise over them, if they would be so foolish as to prefer it before their ancient
theocracy or aristocracy, 1 Samuel 8:1-22; Antiq. B. VI. ch. 4. sect. 4, he will soon find
that it was superabundantly fulfilled in the days of Herod, and that to such a degree, that
the nation now at last seem sorely to repent of such their ancient choice, in opposition to
God's better choice for them, and had much rather be subject to even a pagan Roman government,
and their deputies, than to be any longer under the oppression of the family of Herod; which
request of theirs Augustus did not now grant them, but did it for the one half of that nation
in a few years afterward, upon fresh complaints made by the Jews against Archelaus, who, under
the more humble name of an ethnarch, which Augustus only would now allow him, soon took upon
him the insolence and tyranny of his father king Herod, as the remaining part of this book
will inform us, and particularly ch. 13. sect. 2.

