    I shall be quite ready for you by the 29th. I got such a dear little
    note from Fanny the other day. She says that you never write to
    them, and she supposes that I have the advantage of all your energy
    in that way. I have told her that I do get a good deal. My brother
    writes to me very seldom, I know; and I get twenty letters from
    Cecilia for one scrap that Theodore ever sends me. Perhaps some of
    these days I shall be the chief correspondent with the rectory.
    Fanny told me all about the dresses, and I have my own quite ready.
    I've been bridesmaid to four of my own sisters, so I ought to know
    what I'm about. I'll never be bridesmaid to anybody again, after
    Fanny; but whom on earth shall I have for myself? I think we must
    wait till Cissy and Sophy are ready. Cissy wrote me word that you
    were a darling man. I don't know how much of that came directly from
    Cissy, or how much from Cecilia.

    God bless you, dear, dearest Harry. Let me have one letter before
    you come to fetch me, and acknowledge that I am right, even if you
    say that I am disagreeable. Of course I like to think that you want
    to have me; but, you see, one has to pay the penalty of being
    civilized. Ever and always your own affectionate:

    Florence Burton.

Harry Clavering was very angry when he got this letter. The primary cause of his anger was
the fact that Florence should pretend to know what was better for him than he knew himself.
If he was willing to encounter life in London on less than four hundred a year, surely she
might be contented to try the same experiment. He did not for a moment suspect that she feared
for herself, but he was indignant with her because of her fear for him. What right had she
to accuse him of wanting to be comfortable? Had he not for her sake consented to be very uncomfortable
at that old house at Stratton? Was he not willing to give up his fellowship, and the society
of Lady Ongar, and everything else, for her sake? Had he not shown himself to be such a lover
as there is not one in a hundred? And yet she wrote and told him that it wouldn't do for him
to be poor and uncomfortable? After all that lie had done in the world, after all that he had
gone through, it would be odd if at this time of day, he did not know what was good for himself!
It was in that way that he regarded Florence's pertinacity.

He was rather unhappy at this period. It seemed to him that he was somewhat slighted on both
sides--or, if I may say so, less thought of on both sides than he deserved. Had Lady Ongar
remained in town, as she ought to have done, he would have solaced himself, and at the same
time have revenged himself upon Florence, by devoting some of his spare hours to that lady.
It was Lady Ongar's sudden departure that had made him feel that he ought to rush at once into
marriage. Now he had no consolation, except that of complaining to Mrs. Burton, and going frequently
to the theatre. To Mrs. Burton he did complain a great deal, pulling her worsteds and threads
about the while, sitting in idleness while she was working, just as Theodore Burton had predicted
that he would do.

"I won't have you so idle, Harry," Mrs. Burton said to him one day. "You know you ought to
be at your office now." It must be admitted, on behalf of Harry Clavering, that they who liked
him, especially women, were able to become intimate with him very easily. He had comfortable,
homely ways about him, and did not habitually give himself airs. He had become quite domesticated
at the Burtons' house during the ten weeks that he had been in London, and knew his way to
Onslow Crescent almost too well. It may, perhaps, be surmised correctly that he would not have
gone there so frequently if Mrs. Theodore Burton had been an ugly woman.

"It's all her fault," said he, continuing to snip a piece of worsted with a pair of scissors
as he spoke. "She's too prudent by half."

"Poor Florence!"

"You can't but know that I should work three times as much if she had given me a different
answer. It stands to reason any man would work under such circumstances as that. Not that I
am idle, I believe. I do as much as any other man about the place."

"I won't have my worsted destroyed all the same. Theodore says that Florence is right."

"Of course he does; of course he'll say I'm wrong. I won't ask her again--that's all."

"Oh, Harry! don't say that. You know you'll ask her. You would to-morrow, if she were here."

"You don't know me, Cecilia, or you would not say so. When I have made up my mind to a thing,
I am generally firm about it. She said something about two years, and I will not say a word
to alter that decision. If it be altered, it shall be altered by her."

In the meantime he punished Florence by sending her no special answer to her letter. He wrote
to her as usual; but he made no reference to his last proposal, nor to her refusal. She had
asked him to tell her that he was not angry, but he would tell her nothing of the kind. He
told her when and where and how he would meet her, and convey her from Stratton to Clavering;
gave her some account of a play he had seen; described a little dinner-party in Onslow Crescent;
and told her a funny story about Mr. Walliker and the office at the Adelphi. But he said no
word, even in rebuke, as to her decision about their marriage. He intended that this should
be felt to be severe, and took pleasure in the pain that he would be giving. Florence, when
she received her letter, knew that he was sore, and understood thoroughly the working of his
mind. "I will comfort him when we are together," she said to herself. "I will make him reasonable
when I see him." It was not the way in which he expected that his anger would be received.

One day on his return home he found a card on his table which surprised him very much. It contained
a name but no address, but over the name there was a pencil memorandum, stating that the owner
of the card would call again on his return to London after Easter. The name on the card was
that of Count Pateroff. He remembered the name well as soon as he saw it, though he had never
thought of it since the solitary occasion on which it had been mentioned to him. Count Pateroff
was the man who had been Lord Ongar's friend, and respecting whom Lord Ongar had brought a
false charge against his wife. Why should Count Pateroff call on him? Why was he in England?
Whence had he learned the address in Bloomsbury Square? To that last question he had no difficulty
in finding an answer. Of course he must have heard it from Lady Ongar. Count Pateroff had now
left London. Had he gone to Ongar Park? Harry Clavering's mind was instantly filled with suspicion,
and he became jealous in spite of Florence Burton. Could it be that Lady Ongar, not yet four
months a widow, was receiving at her house in the country this man with whose name her own
had been so fatally joined? If so, what could he think of such behavior? He was very angry.
He knew that he was angry, but he did not at all know that he was jealous. Was he not, by her
own declaration to him, her only friend; and as such could he entertain such a suspicion without
anger? "Her friend!" he said to himself. "Not if she has any dealings whatever with that man
after what she has told me of him!" He remembered at last that perhaps the count might not
be at Ongar Park; but he must, at any rate, have had some dealing with Lady Ongar, or he would
not have known the address in Bloomsbury Square. "Count Pateroff!" he said, repeating the name,
"I shouldn't wonder if I have to quarrel with that man." During the whole of that night he
was thinking of Lady Ongar. As regarded himself, he knew that he had nothing to offer to Lady
Ongar but a brotherly friendship; but, nevertheless, it was an injury to him that she should
be acquainted intimately with any unmarried man but himself.

On the next day he was to go to Stratton, and in the morning a letter was brought to him by
the postman; a letter, or rather a very short note. Guildford was the postmark, and he knew
at once that it was from Lady Ongar.

    DEAR MR. CLAVERING (the note said)--

    I was so sorry to leave London without seeing you; I shall be back
    by the end of April, and am keeping on the same rooms. Come to me,
    if you can, on the evening of the 30th, after dinner. He at last
    bade Hermy to write and ask me to go to Clavering for the Easter
    week. Such a note! I'll show it you when we meet. Of course I
    declined.

    But I write on purpose to tell you that I have begged Count Pateroff
    to see you. I have not seen him, but I have had to write to him
    about things that happened in Florence. He has come to England
    chiefly with reference to the affairs of Lord Ongar. I want you to
    hear his story. As far as I have known him he is a truth-telling
    man, though I do not know that I am able to say much more in his
    favor. Ever yours, J. O.

When he had read this he was quite an altered man. See Count Pateroff! Of course he would see
him. What task could be more fitting for a friend than this, of seeing such a man under such
circumstances. Before he left London he wrote a note for Count Pateroff, to be given to the
count by the people at the lodgings should he call during Harry's absence from London. In this
he explained that he would be at Clavering for a fortnight, but expressed himself ready to
come up to London at a day's notice should Count Pateroff be necessitated again to leave London
before the day named.

As he went about his business that day, and as he journeyed down to Stratton, he entertained
much kinder ideas about Lady Ongar than he had previously done since seeing Count Pateroff's card.

Chapter X

Florence Burton at the Rectory

Harry Clavering went down to Stratton, slept one night at old Mr. Burton's house, and drove
Florence over to Clavering--twenty miles across the country, on the following day. This journey
together had been looked forward to with great delight by both of them, and Florence in spite
of the snubbing which she had received from her lover because of her prudence, was very happy
as she seated herself alongside of him in the vehicle which had been sent over from the rectory,
and which he called a trap. Not a word had as yet been said between them as to that snubbing,
nor was Harry minded that anything should be said. He meant to carry on his revenge by being
dumb on that subject. But such was not Florence's intention. She desired not only to have her
own way in this matter, but desired also that he should assent to her arrangements.

It was a charming day for such a journey. It was cold, but not cold enough to make them uncomfortable.
There was a wind, but not wind enough to torment them. Once there came on a little shower,
which just sufficed to give Harry an opportunity of wrapping his companion very closely, but
he had hardly completed the ceremony before the necessity for it was over. They both agreed
that this mode of travelling was infinitely preferable to a journey by railroad, and I myself
should be of the name opinion if one could always make one's journeys under the same circumstances.
And it must be understood that Harry, though no doubt he was still taking his revenge on Florence
by abstaining from all allusion to her letter, was not disposed to make himself otherwise disagreeable.
He played his part of lover very well, and Florence was supremely happy.

"Harry," she said, when the journey was more than half completed, "you never told me what you
thought of my letter."

"Which letter?" But he knew very well which was the letter in question.

"My prudent letter--written in answer to yours that was very imprudent."

"I thought there was nothing more to be said about it."

"Come, Harry, don't let there be any subject between us that we don't care to think about and
discuss. I know what you meant by not answering me. You meant to punish me, did you not, for
having an opinion different from yours? Is not that true, Harry?"

"Punish you, no; I did not want to punish you. It was I that was punished, I think."

"But you know I was right. Was I not right?"

"I think you were wrong, but I don't want to say anything more about it now."

"Ah, but, Harry, I want you to talk about it. Is it not everything to me--everything in this
world--that you and I should agree about this? I have nothing else to think of but you. I have
nothing to hope for but that I may live to be your wife. My only care in the world is my care
for you! Come, Harry, don't be glum with me."

"I am not glum."

"Speak a nice word to me. Tell me that you believe me when I say that it is not of myself I
am thinking, but of you."

"Why can't you let me think for myself in this?"

"Because you have got to think for me."

"And I think you'd do very well on the income we ye got. If you'll consent to marry, this Summer,
I won't be glum, as you call it, a moment longer."

"No, Harry; I must not do that. I should be false to my duty to you if I did."

"Then it's no use saying anything more about it."

"Look here, Harry, if an engagement for two years is tedious to you--"

"Of course it is tedious. Is not waiting for anything always tedious? There's nothing I hate
so much as waiting."

"But listen to me," said she, gravely. "If it is too tedious, if it is more than you think
you can bear without being unhappy, I will release you from your engagement."

"Florence!"

"Hear me to the end. It will make no change in me and then if you like to come to me again
at the end of the two years, you may be sure of the way in which I shall receive you."

"And what good would that do?"

"Simply this good, that you would not be bound in a manner that makes you unhappy. If you did
not intend that when you asked me to be your wife--Oh, Harry, all I want is to make you happy.
That is all that I care for, all that I think about?"

Harry swore to her with ten thousand oaths that he would not release her from any part of her
engagement with him, that he would give her no loophole of escape from him, that he intended
to hold her so firmly that if she divided herself from him, she should be accounted among women
a paragon of falseness. He was ready, he said, to marry her to-morrow. That was his wish, his
idea of what would be best for both of them; and after that, if not to-morrow, then on the
next day, and so on till the day should come on which she should consent to become his wife.
He went on also to say that he should continue to torment her on the subject about once a week
till he had induced her to give way; and then he quoted a Latin line to show that a constant
dropping of water will hollow a stone. This was somewhat at variance with a declaration he
had made to Mrs. Burton, of Onslow Crescent, to the effect that he would never speak to Florence
again upon the subject; but then men do occasionally change their minds, and Harry Clavering
was a man who often changed his.

Florence, as he made the declaration above described, thought that he played his part of lover
very well, and drew herself a little closer to him as she thanked him for his warmth. "Dear
Harry, you are so good and so kind, and I do love you so truly!" In this way the journey was
made very pleasantly, and when Florence was driven up to the rectory door she was quite contented
with her coachman.

Harry Clavering, who is the hero of our story, will not, I fear have hitherto presented himself
to the reader as having much of the heroic nature in his character. It will, perhaps, be complained
of him that he is fickle, vain, easily led, and almost as easily led to evil as to good. But
it should be remembered that hitherto he has been rather hardly dealt with in these pages,
and that his faults and weaknesses have been exposed almost unfairly. That he had such faults,
and was subject to such weaknesses, may be believed of him; but there may be a question whether
as much evil would not be known of most men, let them be heroes or not be heroes, if their
characters were, so to say, turned inside out before our eyes.

Harry Clavering, fellow of his college, six feet high, with handsome face and person, and with
plenty to say for himself on all subjects, was esteemed highly and regarded much by those who
knew him, in spite of those little foibles which marred his character; and I must beg the reader
to take the world's opinion about him, and not to estimate him too meanly thus early in this
history of his adventures.

If this tale should ever be read by any lady who, in the course of her career, has entered
a house under circumstances similar to those which had brought Florence Burton to Clavering
rectory, she will understand how anxious must have been that young lady when she encountered
the whole Clavering family in the hall. She had been blown about by the wind, and her cloaks
and shawls were heavy on her, and her hat was a little out of shape--from some fault on the
part of Harry, as I believe--and she felt herself to be a dowdy as she appeared among them.
What would they think of her, and what would they think of Harry in that he had chosen such
an one to be his wife? Mrs. Clavering had kissed her before she had seen that lady's face;
and Mary and Fanny had kissed her before she knew which was which; and then a stout, clerical
gentleman kissed her who, no doubt, was Mr. Clavering, senior. After that, another clerical
gentleman, very much younger and very much slighter, shock hands with her. He might have kissed
her, too, had he been so minded, for Florence was too confused to be capable of making any
exact reckoning in the matter. He might have done so--that is, as far as Florence was concerned.
It may be a question whether Mary Clavering would not have objected; for this clerical gentleman
was the Rev. Edward Fielding, who was to become her husband in three days' time.

"Now, Florence," said Fanny, "come up stairs into mamma's room and have some tea, and we'll
look at you. Harry, you needn't come. You've had her to yourself for a long time, and can have
her again in the evening."

Florence, in this way, was taken up stairs and found herself seated by a fire, while three
pairs of hands were taking from her her shawls and hat and cloak, almost before she knew where
she was.

"It is so odd to have you here," said Fanny. "We have only one brother, so, of course, we shall
make very much of you. Isn't she nice, mamma?"

"I'm sure she is; very nice. But I shouldn't have told her so before her face, if you hadn't
asked the question."

"That's nonsense, mamma. You musn't believe mamma when she pretends to be grand and sententious.
It's only put on as a sort of company air, but we don't mean to make company of you."

"Pray don't," said Florence.

"I'm so glad you are come just at this time," said Mary. "I think so much of having Harry's
future wife at my wedding. I wish we were both going to be married the same day."

"But we are not going to be married for ever so long. Two years hence has been the shortest
time named."

"Don't be sure of that, Florence," said Fanny. "We have all of us received a special commission
from Harry to talk you out of that heresy; have we not, mamma?"

"I think you had better not tease Florence about that immediately on her arrival. It's hardly
fair." Then, when they had drunk their tea, Florence was taken away to her own room, and before
she was allowed to go down stairs she was intimate with both the girls, and had so far overcome
her awe of Harry's mother as to be able to answer her without confusion.

"Well, sir, what do you think of her?" said Harry to his father, as soon as they were alone.

"I have not had time to think much of her yet. She seems to be very pretty. She isn't so tall
as I thought she would be."

"No; she's not tall," said Harry, in a voice of disappointment.

"I've no doubt we shall like her very much. What money is she to have?"

"A hundred a year while her father lives."

"That's not much."

"Much or little, it made no difference with me. I should never have thought of marrying a girl
for her money. It's a kind of thing that I hate. I almost wish she was to have nothing."

"I shouldn't refuse it if I were you."

"Of course, I shan't refuse it; but what I mean is that I never thought about it when I asked
her to have me; and I shouldn't have been a bit more likely to ask her if she had ten times
as much."

"A fortune with one's wife isn't a bad thing for a poor man, Harry."

"But a poor man must be poor in more senses than one when he looks about to get a fortune in
that way."

"I suppose you won't marry just yet," said the father. "Including everything, you would not
have five hundred a year, and that would be very close work in London."

"It's not quite decided yet, sir. As far as I am myself concerned, I think that people are
a great deal too prudent about money, I believe I could live as a married man on a hundred
a year, if I had no more; and as for London, I don't see why London should be more expensive
than any other place. You can get exactly what you want in London, and make your halfpence
go farther there than anywhere else."

"And your sovereigns go quicker," said the rector.

"All that is wanted," said Harry, "is the will to live on your income, and a little firmness
in carrying out your plans."

The rector of Clavering, as he heard all this wisdom fall from his son's lips, looked at Harry's
expensive clothes, at the ring on his finger, at the gold chain on his waistcoat, at the studs
in his shirt, and smiled gently. He was by no means so clever a man as his son, but he knew
something more of the world, and though not much given to general reading, he had read his
son's character. "A great deal of firmness and of fortitude also is wanted for that kind of
life," he said. "There are men who can go through it without suffering, but I would not advise
any young man to commence it in a hurry. If I were you I should wait a year or two. Come, let's
have a walk; that is, if you can tear yourself away from your lady-love for an hour. If there
is not Saul coming up the avenue! Take your hat, Harry, and we'll get out the other way. He
only wants to see the girls about the school, but if he catches us he'll keep us for an hour."
Then Harry asked after Mr. Saul's love-affairs. "I've not heard one single word about it since
you went away," said the rector. "It seems to have passed off like a dream. He and Fanny go
on the same as ever, and I suppose he knows that he made a fool of himself." But in this matter
the rector of Clavering was mistaken. Mr. Saul did not by any means think that he made a fool
of himself.

"He has never spoken a word to me since," said Fanny to her brother that evening; "that is,
not a word as to what occurred then. Of course it was very embarrassing at first, though I
don't think he minded it much. He came after a day or two just the same as ever, and he almost
made me think that he had forgotten it."

"And he wasn't confused?"

"Not at all. He never is. The only difference is that I think he scolds me more than he used
to do."

"Scold you!"

"Oh dear, yes; he always scolded me if he thought there was anything wrong, especially about
giving the children holidays. But he does it now more than ever."

"How do you bear it?"

"In a half-and-half sort of a way. I laugh at him, and then do as I'm bid. He makes everybody
do what he bids them at Clavering--except papa, sometimes. But he scolds him, too. I heard
him the other day in the library."

"And did my father take it from him?"

"He did, in a sort of a way. I don't think papa likes him; but then he knows, and we all know,
that he is so good. He never spares himself in anything. He has nothing but his curacy, and
what he gives away is wonderful."

"I hope he won't take to scolding me," said Harry, proudly.

"As you don't concern yourself about the parish, I should say that you're safe. I suppose he
thinks mamma does everything right, for he never scolds her."

"There is no talk of his going away."

"None at all. I think we should all be sorry, because he does so much good."

Florence reigned supreme in the estimation of the rectory family all the evening of her arrival
and till after breakfast the next morning, but then the bride elect was restored to her natured
preeminence. This, however, lasted only for two days, after which the bride was taken away.
The wedding was very nice, and pretty, and comfortable; and the people of Clavering were much
better satisfied with it than they had been with that other marriage which has been mentioned
as having been celebrated in Clavering Church. The rectory family was generally popular, and
everybody wished well to the daughter who was being given away. When they were gone there was
a breakfast at the rectory, and speeches were made with much volubility. On such an occasion
the rector was a great man, and Harry also shone in conspicuous rivalry with his father. But
Mr. Saul's spirit was not so well tuned to the occasion as that of the rector or his son, and
when he got upon his legs, and mournfully expressed a hope that his friend Mm Fielding might
be enabled to bear the trials of this life with fortitude, it was felt by them all that the
speaking had better be brought to an end.

"You shouldn't laugh at him, Harry," Fanny said to her brother afterward, almost seriously.
"One man can do one thing and one another. You can make a speech better than he can, but I
don't think you could preach so good a sermon."

"I declare I think you're getting fond of him, after all," said Harry. Upon hearing this Fanny
turned away with a look of great offence. "No one but a brother," said she, "would say such
a thing as that to me, because I don't like to hear the poor man ridiculed without cause."
That evening, when they were alone, Fanny told Florence the whole story about Mr. Saul. "I
tell you, you know, because you're like one of ourselves now. It has never been mentioned to
any one out of the family."

Florence declared that the story would be sacred with her.

"I'm sure of that, dear, and therefore I like you to know it. Of course such a thing was quite
out of the question. The poor fellow has no means at all--literally, none. And then independently
of that--"

"I don't think I should ever bring myself to think of that as the first thing," said Florence.

"No, nor would I. If I really were attached to a man, I think I would tell him so, and agree
to wait, either with hope or without it."

"Just so, Fanny."

"But there was nothing of that kind; and, indeed, he's the sort of man that no girl would think
of being in love with--isn't he? You see he will hardly take the trouble to dress himself decently."

"I have only seen him at a wedding, you know."

"And for him he was quite bright. But you will see plenty of him if you will go to the schools
with me. And indeed he comes here a great deal, quite as much as he did before that happened.
He is so good, Florence!"

"Poor man!"

"I can't in the least make out from his manner whether he has given up thinking about it. I
suppose he has. Indeed, of course he has, because he must know that it would be of no sort
of use. But he is one of those men of whom you can never say whether they are happy or not;
and you never can be quite sure what may be in his mind."

"He is not bound to the place at all--not like your father?"

"Oh, no," said Fanny, thinking perhaps that Mr. Saul might find himself to be bound to the
place, though not exactly with bonds similar to those which kept her father there.

"If he found himself to be unhappy, he could go," said Florence.

"Oh, yes; he could go if he were unhappy," said Fanny. "That is, he could go if he pleased."

Lady Clavering had come to the wedding; but no one else had been present from the great house.
Sir Hugh, indeed, was not at home; but, as the rector truly observed, he might have been at
home if he had so pleased. "But he is a man," said the father to the son, "who always does
a rude thing if it be in his power. For myself, I care nothing for him, as he knows. But he
thinks that Mary would have liked to have seen him as the head of the family, and therefore
he does not come. He has greater skill in making himself odious than any man I ever knew. As
for her, they say he's leading her a terrible life. And he's becoming so stingy about money, too!"

"I hear that Archie is very heavy on him."

"I don't believe that he would allow any man to be heavy on him, as you call it. Archie has
means of his own, and I suppose has not run through them yet. If Hugh has advanced him money,
you may be sure that he has security. As for Archie, he will come to an end very soon, if what
I hear is true. They tell me he is always at Newmarket, and he always loses."

But though Sir Hugh was thus uncourteous to the rector and to the rector's daughter, he was
so far prepared to be civil to his cousin Harry, that he allowed his wife to ask all the rectory
family to dine up at the house, in honor of Harry's sweetheart. Florence Burton was specially
invited, with Lady Clavering's sweetest smile. Florence, of course, referred the matter to
her hostess, but it was decided that they should all accept the invitation. It was given, personally,
after the breakfast, and it is not always easy to decline invitations so given. It may, I think,
be doubted whether any man or woman has a right to give an invitation in this way, and whether
all invitations so given should not be null and void, from the fact of the unfair advantage
that has been taken. The man who fires at a sitting bird is known to be no sportsman. Now,
the dinner-giver who catches his guest in an unguarded moment, and bags him when he has had
no chance to rise upon his wing, does fire at a sitting bird. In this instance, however, Lady
Clavering's little speeches were made only to Mrs. Clavering and to Florence. She said nothing
personally to the rector, and he therefore might have escaped. But his wife talked him over.

"I think you should go for Harry's sake," said Mrs. Clavering.

"I don't see what good it will do Harry."

"It will show that you approve of the match."

"I don't approve or disapprove of it. He's his own master."

"But you approve, you know, as you countenance it; and there cannot possibly be a sweeter girl
than Florence Burton. We all like her, and I'm sure you seem to take to her thoroughly."

"Take to her; yes, I take to her very well. She's ladylike, and though she's no beauty, she
looks pretty, and is spirited. And I daresay she's clever."

"And so good."

"If she's good, that's better than all. Only I don't see what they're to live."

"But as she is here, you will go with us to the great house?"

Mrs. Clavering never asked her husband anything in vain, and the rector agreed to go. He apologized
for this afterward to his son, by explaining that he did it as a duty. "It will serve for six
months," he said. "If I did not go there about once in six months, there would be supposed
to be a family quarrel, and that would be bad for the parish."

Harry was to remain only a week at Clavering, and the dinner was to take place the evening
before he went away. On that morning he walked all round the park with Florence--as he had
before often walked with Julia--and took that occasion of giving her a full history of the
Clavering family. "We none of us like my cousin Hugh," he said. "But she is at least harmless,
and she means to be good-natured. She is very unlike her sister, Lady Ongar."

"So I should suppose, from what you have told me."

"Altogether an inferior being."

"And she has only one child."

"Only one--a boy now two years old. They say he's anything but strong."

"And Sir Hugh has one brother."

"Yes; Archie Clavering. I think Archie is a worse fellow even than Hugh. He makes more attempts
to be agreeable, but there is something in his eye which I always distrust. And then he is
a man who does no good in the world to anybody."

"He's not married?"

"No; he's not married, and I don't suppose he ever will marry. It's on the cards, Florence,
that the future baronet may be." Then she frowned on him, walked on quickly, and changed the
conversation.

Chapter XI

Sir Hugh and His Brother Archie

There was a numerous gathering of Claverings in the drawing-room of the great house when the
family from the rectory arrived, comprising three generations; for the nurse was in the room
holding the heir in her arms. Mrs. Clavering and Fanny of course inspected the child at once,
as they were bound to do, while Lady Clavering welcomed Florence Burton. Archie spoke a word
or two to his uncle, and Sir Hugh vouchsafed to give one finger to his cousin Harry by way
of shaking hands with him. Then there came a feeble squeak from the infant, and there was a
cloud at once upon Sir Hugh's brow. "Hermione," he said, "I wish you wouldn't have the child
in here. It's not the place for him. He's always cross. I've said a dozen times I wouldn't
have him down here just before dinner." Then a sign was made to the nurse, and she walked off
with her burden. It was a poor, rickety, unalluring bairn, but it was all that Lady Clavering
had, and she would fain have been allowed to show it to her relatives, as other mothers are
allowed to do.

"Hugh," said his wife, "shall I introduce you to Miss Burton?"

Then Sir Hugh came forward and shook hands with his new guest, with some sort of apology for
his remissness, while Harry stood by, glowering at him, with offence in his eye. "My father
is right," he had said to himself when his cousin failed to notice Florence on her first entrance
into the room; "he is impertinent as well as disagreeable. I don't care for quarrels in the
parish, and so I shall let him know."

"Upon my word she's a doosed good-looking little thing," said Archie, coming up to him, after
having also shaken hands with her; "doosed good-looking, I call her."

"I'm glad you think so," said Harry, dryly.

"Let's see; where was it you picked her up? I did hear, but I forget."

"I picked her up, as you call it, at Stratton, where her father lives."

"Oh, yes; I know. He's the fellow that coached you in your new business, isn't he? By-the-by,
Harry, I think you've made a mess of it in changing your line. I'd have stuck to my governor's
shop if I'd been you. You'd got through all the d----d fag of it, and there's the living that
has always belonged to a Clavering."

"What would your brother have said if I had asked him to give it to me?"

"He wouldn't have given it of course. Nobody does give anything to anybody now-a-days. Livings
are a sort of thing that people buy. But you'd have got it under favorable circumstances."

"The fact is, Archie, I'm not very fond of the church, as a profession."

