Transcriber's Note:

In the contents list for Chapter II, 'Daniel Doone is rejoiced' was changed to 'Daniel Boone'.
'Boon' in the frontispiece illustration caption has however been retained.

Variations in use of hyphens have been standardised within the text.

Less usual spelling of words such as rackoon and periogues have been left as they appear in
the original book.

The spelling of Colonel Calloway/Calaway has been left as it appears in the original.

   "Too much crowded--too much crowded--I want more
    elbow-room."--Boone on his way to Missouri.

   NEW YORK:
   D. APPLETON & CO., 200 BROADWAY.
   PHILADELPHIA:
   GEORGE S. APPLETON, 164 CHESNUT ST.
   MDCCCL.

   TO
   HIS YOUNG COUNTRYMEN
   THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES,
   AND ESPECIALLY
   THE LADS OF KENTUCKY,
   This Volume
   IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED,
   BY UNCLE PHILIP.

   CONTENTS.

   CHAPTER I.
                                                              Page.
   Daniel Boone is born in Bucks county, Pennsylvania--His
   father removes to the Schuylkill--Boone's early passion
   for hunting--Kills a panther--Wanderings in the woods--Is
   sent to school--The school is broken up--Boone returns to
   his sports--His father removes to the Yadkin river in
   North Carolina--While the farm is improving Daniel is
   hunting--The neighborhood begins to be settled--Daniel is
   dissatisfied--Settlement of Mr. Bryan--Daniel Boone goes
   out upon a fire hunt--Strange adventure--Marries Rebecca
   Bryan--Makes a home for himself on the head waters of the
   Yadkin--Men begin to crowd upon him--determines to move      13

   CHAPTER II.

   Early visits to Kentucky--James McBride--Dr. Wacker and
   others--John Finlay goes to Kentucky trading with the
   Indians--Returns with glowing accounts of the
   country--Visits Daniel Boone and spends the winter with
   him--Boone is charmed with the stories--They determine in
   the spring to go to Kentucky--Meeting at Boone's house in
   May--With four companions they start for the
   west--Adventures by the way--They reach Finlay's old
   station on the Red river--Make their camp--Amuse
   themselves in hunting and exploring the country--Beauty
   of the country--Abundance of game--Boone and Stewart are
   taken by the Indians--Make their escape--Return to their
   camp--It is plundered and deserted--Arrival of Squire
   Boone--Daniel Boone is rejoiced to hear from his family      26

   CHAPTER III.

   Hunting party--Stewart is killed by the Indians--narrow
   escape of Daniel Boone--The companion of Squire Boone
   returns home--The two brothers alone in the
   wilderness--Cheerfulness of Daniel Boone--Squire returns
   to the Yadkin for ammunition--Daniel lives in the forest
   alone--His pleasant wanderings--Singular escape from the
   Indians--Encounter with a bear--Looks for the return of
   his brother--Disappointment--Is very sad--Squire suddenly
   arrives with ammunition and horses--Plans for the
   future--Daniel Boone chooses a spot on the Kentucky
   river--They return for his family--Sport by the way--They
   reach the Yadkin--Try to beat up recruits for
   Kentucky--Ridicule of the people--They start with five
   families--Forty men join them--Disaster by the way--They
   return to Clinch river--Various employments of Boone--He
   returns to Kentucky--Builds a fort--Removes his family to
   Boonesborough                                                42

   CHAPTER IV.

   Comforts of Boonesborough--Arrival of Colonel Calaway and
   his daughters--Capture of three girls by the
   Indians--Boone and Calaway pursue--Are made
   prisoners--Happy escape--New emigrants--County of
   Kentucky--Indian warfare--Attacks upon Harrodsburgh and
   Boonesborough--Expedition to the salt-licks on Licking
   river--Courage of Boone--Overcomes two Indians--Is met by
   a large Indian party--Made a prisoner--His long captivity
   and escape                                                   59

   CHAPTER V.

   Indian customs noticed by Boone during his
   captivity--Mode of hardening children--Changing
   names--Marriages--Burials--War parties--Celebration of
   victories--Torturing prisoners--Making treaties of peace     80

   CHAPTER VI.

   Boone's disappointment upon not finding his
   wife--Strengthening of Boonesborough--Indian
   hostilities--Attack of Boonesborough--gallant
   defence--Boone returns to North Carolina--Occurrences
   during his absence--Boone returns--Goes to the Blue Licks
   for salt--Death of the younger Boone--Daniel Boone
   escapes--Kentucky divided into three counties--Hard
   winter of 1781--Indian hostilities--Attack on Bryant's
   station--Villany of Simon Girty                              91

   CHAPTER VII.

   Disastrous defeat at the Blue Licks--General Clarke's
   campaign--Efforts to restore peace--Sullenness of the
   Indians--They continue their massacres--Stratagems on the
   Ohio--Bold defence of Captain Hubbil--Halmar's
   campaign--St. Clair's defeat--Debate in Congress--General
   Wayne takes command--Defeats the Indians--Lays waste
   their country--Concludes a treaty of peace with the
   savages in August, 1795                                     109

   CHAPTER VIII.

   Happiness of the settlers--Boone roams through the
   wilderness--Civilization sickens him--He loses his
   lands--Moves to the Kanhawa--Disappointed in finding
   game--Moves to Missouri--Purchase of Missouri from the
   French--Anecdote related by Mr. Audubon--Boone loses his
   wife--His sorrow--War with England--His old age--His
   habits--He dies in 1818.                                    127

   APPENDIX.

   The adventures of Colonel Daniel Boone, formerly a
   hunter; containing a narrative of the wars of Kentucky,
   as given by himself.                                        143

THE ADVENTURES OF DANIEL BOONE.

CHAPTER I.

Some men choose to live in crowded cities;--others are pleased with the peaceful quiet of a
country farm; while some love to roam through wild forests, and make their homes in the wilderness.
The man of whom I shall now speak, was one of this last class. Perhaps you never heard of DANIEL
BOONE, the Kentucky rifleman. If not, then I have a strange and interesting story to tell you.

If, when a child was born, we knew that he was to become a remarkable man, the time and place
of his birth would, perhaps, be always remembered. But as this can not be known, great mistakes
are often made on these points. As to the time when Daniel Boone was born, there is no difficulty;
but people have fallen into many blunders about the place. Some have said that he was born
in England, before his parents left that country; others that he came into this world during
the passage of his parents across the Atlantic. One has told us that he was born in Virginia;
another in Maryland; while many have stated that he was a native of North Carolina. These are
all mistakes. Daniel Boone was born in the year 1746, in Bucks county, in the state of Pennsylvania.

From some cause or other, when the boy was but three years old, his parents moved from this
home, and settled upon the Schuylkill river, not far from the town of Reading.

I do not know but that this passion for roaming was in some degree inherited by Daniel Boone.
His father had already had three homes: one in England, one in Bucks county, and another on
the Schuylkill; and he now thought of removing further. It is said that the passion of Daniel
for hunting was one cause which prompted his father to think of this. Land was becoming scarce,
the neighborhood a little crowded, and game less abundant; and, to mend matters, he began to
cast his eyes around for a new home. He was not long in choosing one. He had heard of a rich
and beautiful country on the banks of the Yadkin river in North Carolina, and he determined
that this should be the next resting-place for him and his household.

All things were made ready as soon as possible, and the journey commenced. It was a fine spring
morning when the father started for his new home, with his wife and children, his flocks and
herds. Their journey lay hundreds of miles through a trackless wilderness; yet with cheerful
and fearless hearts they pressed onward. When hungry, they feasted upon venison and wild turkeys
(for Daniel, with his rifle, was in company); when thirsty, they found cool springs of water
to refresh them by the way; when wearied at night, they laid themselves down and slept under
the wide-spreading branches of the forest. At length they reached the land they looked for,
and the father found it to be all that he expected. The woods in that region were unbroken;
no man seemed yet to have found them. Land was soon cleared, a cabin built, and the father
in a little time found himself once more happily settled with his family.

The old man with his other sons went busily to the work of making a farm. As for Daniel, they
knew it was idle to expect his help in such employment, and therefore left him to roam about
with his rifle. This was a glorious country for the youth; wild woods were all around him,
and the game, having not yet learned to fear the crack of the rifle wandered fearlessly through
them. This he thought was, of all places, the home for him. I hope you will not think that
he was the idle and useless boy of the family, for it was not so. While the farm was improving,
Daniel was supplying the family with provisions. The table at home was always filled with game,
and they had enough and to spare. Their house became known as a warm-hearted and hospitable
abode; for the wayfaring wanderer, when lost in the woods, was sure to find here a welcome,
a shelter, and an abundance. Then, too, if money was wanted in the family, the peltries of
the animals shot by Daniel supplied it: so that he was, in a large degree, the supporter of
the household. In this way years rolled onward--the farm still enlarging and improving, Daniel
still hunting, and the home one of constant peace, happiness, and plenty.

At length the story of the success and comfort of the family brought neighbors around them.
Different parts of the forests began to be cleared; smoke was soon seen rising from new cabins;
and the sharp crack of other rifles than Daniel's was sometimes heard in the morning. This
grieved him sadly. Most people would have been pleased to find neighbors in the loneliness
of the woods; but what pleased others did not please him. They were crowding upon him; they
were driving away his game: this was his trouble. But, after all, there was one good farmer
who came into the region and made his settlement; which settlement, as it turned out, proved
a happy thing for Daniel. This was a very worthy man named Bryan. He cleared his land, built
his cabin upon a sloping hill, not very far from Mr. Boone's, and before a great while, by
dint of industry, had a good farm of more than a hundred acres. This farm was beautifully situated.
A pretty stream of water almost encircled it. On the banks of the Schuylkill, Daniel Boone
found all his education, such as it was; on the banks of the Yadkin he found something far
better. I must tell you now of a very strange adventure.

One evening, with another young friend, he started out upon what is called a "fire-hunt." Perhaps
you do not know what this means. I will explain it to you. Two people are always necessary
for a fire-hunt. One goes before, carrying a blazing torch of pitch-pine wood (or lightwood,
as it is called in the southern country), while the other follows behind with his rifle. In
this way the two hunters move through the forests. When an animal is startled, he will stand
gazing at the light, and his eyes may be seen shining distinctly: this is called "shining the
eyes." The hunter with the rifle, thus seeing him, while the other shines him, levels his gun
with steady aim, and has a fair shot. This mode of hunting is still practised in many parts
of our country, and is everywhere known as a fire-hunt.

Boone, with his companion, started out upon such a hunt, and very soon reached the woods skirting
the lower end of Mr. Bryan's farm. It seems they were on horseback, Boone being behind with
the rifle. They had not gone far, when his companion reined up his horse, and two eyes were
seen distinctly shining. Boone levelled his rifle, but something prevented his firing. The
animal darted off. Boone leaped from his horse, left his companion, and instantly dashed after
it. It was too dark to see plainly, still he pursued; he was close upon its track, when a fence
coming in the way, the animal leaped it with a clear bound. Boone climbed over as fast as he
could with his rifle, but the game had got ahead. Nothing daunted by this, he pushed on, until
he found himself at last not very far from Mr. Bryan's home. But the animal was gone. It was
a strange chase. He determined to go into Mr Bryan's house, and tell his adventure. As he drew
near, the dogs raised a loud barking, the master came out, bade him welcome, and carried him
into the house. Mr. Bryan had scarcely introduced him to his family as "the son of his neighbor
Boone," when suddenly the door of the room was burst open, and in rushed a little lad of seven,
followed by a girl of sixteen years, crying out, "O father! father! sister is frightened to
death! She went down to the river, and was chased by a panther!" The hunter and his game had
met. There stood Boone, leaning upon his rifle, and Rebecca Bryan before him, gasping for breath.
From that moment he continued to pursue it; Farmer Bryan's house became a favorite resort for
him; he loved it as well as the woods. The business was now changed: Rebecca Bryan completely
shined his eyes; and after a time, to the great joy of themselves and both families, Daniel
Boone and Rebecca Bryan were married. It proved, as you will see, a very happy marriage to
both parties.

Being now a married man, it became Daniel Boone's duty to seek a new home for himself. In a
little time, therefore, he left his wife, and wandered into the unsettled parts of North Carolina
in search of one. After moving about for some time, he found, upon the head-waters of the Yadkin,
a rich soil, covered with a heavy and once more unbroken forest. "Here," thought Daniel Boone,
"is the resting-place for me; here Rebecca Bryan and myself may be happy: this shall be our
home." He returned to his wife, and she, with a cheerful heart, joined in all his plans. With
tears in her eyes, she bade farewell to her friends; yet, with a light spirit, she started
off with her husband. A clearing in the woods was soon made, a log cabin of his own soon built,
and a portion of ground planted. Boone seems now to have thought that he must do something
more than use his rifle. He was to make a home for his wife and busied himself, accordingly,
in enlarging his farm as fast as he could, and industriously cultivating it. Still, on his
busiest day, he would find a leisure hour to saunter with his gun to the woods, and was sure
never to return without game. His own table was loaded with it, as when at his father's, and
his house, like his father's, soon became known as a warm and kind shelter for the wandering
traveller. In this industrious and quiet way of farming and hunting, years were spent, and
Daniel Boone was contented and happy. Several little children were now added to his group;
and, with his wife, his children, and his rifle, for companions, he felt that all was well.

But his peace was at length disturbed once more. His old troubles pursued him; men again began
to come near. The crash of falling trees was heard, as the new settlers levelled the forests;
huts were seen springing up all around him; other hunters were roaming through the woods, and
other dogs than his were heard barking. This was more than he was willing to bear. Happy as
he had made his home, he determined to leave it, and find another in the wilderness, where
he could have that wilderness to himself. For some time he was at a loss to know where to go;
yet his heart was fixed in the determination to move. The circumstances which pointed him to
his new home, and where that new home was made, you may learn in the next chapter.

CHAPTER II.

My young friends all know where the state of Kentucky is situated. It is hardly necessary for
me to say, that at the time of which I am writing, that region was an unbroken wilderness.

It was in the year 1754 that a white man first visited the country of Kentucky. This was James
M'Bride. In company with several others during that year, he was passing down the Ohio, when
he discovered the mouth of Kentucky river, and made a landing. Near the spot where he landed,
he cut upon a tree the first letters of his name; and these letters, it is said, could be seen
and distinctly read for many years afterward. With his companions, he wandered through the
wilderness; the country struck them all as being remarkably beautiful. It is not wonderful,
then, that when they returned home, they were filled with fine stories about the new region.
They declared that it was "the best tract of land in North America, and probably in the world."

In spite of their pleasant stories, however, it was a long time before any one was disposed
to follow in their track. At length, Doctor Walker, of Virginia, with a number of friends,
started upon a western tour of discovery. Some say that he was in search of the Ohio river
particularly; others that he went merely to collect strange plants and flowers. Be this as
it may, he with his party wandered through Powell's Valley, and passed the mountains at what
is called the Cumberland Gap. They then crossed the Cumberland river, and roaming on through
the forests, at length, after much fatigue and suffering, reached the Big Sandy. The country
was beautiful, yet they were too much worn out to go further, and from this point began to
return homeward. They had suffered more than M'Bride, and therefore their story was not so
bright as his; yet they gave a very pleasant account of the new country.

No one yet, however, seemed ready to make his home in Kentucky; and accident at last seems
to have thrown one man into that country, whose story, upon his return, made some anxious to
go there. This was John Finley, a backwoodsman of North Carolina. He was in the habit of roving
about and trading with the Indians. In the year 1767, he, with certain companions as fearless
as himself, led on from place to place by the course of trade, wandered far into Kentucky.
Here he remained for some time. It was a very beautiful, yet, as he learned also, a very dangerous
country. No Indian tribe lived there, but all the tribes roamed over it as a hunting-ground.
Upon these hunts, the fierce and warlike people would often meet and wage their bloody battles.
These fights were so frequent and so awful, that the region was known by the name of the "Dark
and Bloody Ground." In spite of danger, Finley lived there, until at last the traders and the
Indians began to quarrel, and, for safety's sake, he was forced to run off. He returned to
North Carolina, filled with wonderful stories. Sights like those on the "Dark and Bloody Ground,"
were nowhere to be seen. The land was rich, and covered with trees and flowers; there were
lofty mountains, beautiful valleys, and clear streams, throughout it. Then he spoke of the
strange caves in the mountains; of curious salt springs; of the footprints of men to be seen
distinctly upon the solid rocks; of the strange figures of huge animals on the sides of the
high cliffs. Game of all sorts was abundant, from the buffalo down to the partridge. There
was no country (he declared) like Kain-tuck-kee.[1] His tale was so wonderful, that people
could not well help listening to it.

   [1] This was the Indian name for the country.

Whether John Finley was led there by a knowledge of the man's character, or whether it was
an accident, it so happened, that about a year after his return, he wandered into the neighborhood
of Daniel Boone's home. It was not long before he fell in with Boone, and completely charmed
him with his stories. Boone had known some sport in the forests himself, but the adventures
of Finley were to him marvellous. He was so much pleased with the man, that he invited him,
as it was now winter, to come to his house, and make his home there through the season. The
invitation was gladly accepted; and in the cabin of Boone, again and again was the wild beauty
of the "Dark and Bloody Ground" laid before him. There was no end to Finley's stories of this
region. The wind whistled without, but the fire blazed cheerfully within; and here they sat,
on many a night, almost till dawn, Finley talking, and Boone listening. The end of all this
was, that they determined, when spring opened, to go to Kentucky. Boone knew that there were
hardships and perils in the way, and Finley had practically felt them; but what were dangers
or difficulties to these fearless men? The first of May was agreed upon as the day for starting,
and Finley was then again to meet Boone at his house.

It is not strange that other bold men, who heard Finley's stories, were seized with the same
desire for going west. Indeed, Boone helped to give them that desire, knowing that a few brave
spirits would be of great service in the new country. He talked, therefore, warmly of the comforts
of a new home in the forest, where there was an abundance of game, and a complete absence of
towns and villages. The people in the neighborhood, learning what was going on, had likewise
gathered to look with surprise upon these six men. What could prompt men to leave the comforts
of their quiet homes, and wander off into the wilderness? They surely were crazy. Boone was
much beloved as a kind neighbor, and they mourned most over his madness. Nothing daunted by
all this, they were then ready for a start, and were now on the point of leaving. We are told
that, with tears in his eyes, Daniel Boone kissed his wife and children; and if the story be
true, I love him the more for it. His spirit was beating for his new hunting-forests; he could
face all the dangers of the "Dark and Bloody Ground," but then it was doubtful whether he was
not parting with his wife and children for ever. At all events, he was leaving them for months,
perhaps for years--he knew not how long--and who can wonder that tears stood in his eyes? Each
man shouldered his rifle, shot-bag, powder-horn, and knapsack, and off they started--every
neighbor straining his eyes after them as far as he could see, as the men upon whom he was
looking for the last time.

For two or three days they saw nothing new, for they were passing over their old hunting-grounds.
After this, they came to a wild and trackless region, and saw from time to time the lofty ridge
of mountains which separated them from the western country. In two days more, the provisions
with which they had started gave out, and the first thing to be done was to find a fresh supply.
Accordingly they halted, chose a suitable spot for their camp, and part of them commenced building
it of logs and branches; the others went into the woods in search of game. It was impossible
for such men to starve in such a region; game was abundant. The hunters returned toward night,
with several deer and wild turkeys. The camp was finished, a bright fire was burning, and in
a little time the venison was dressed, cooked, and eaten. The supper was scarcely finished,
when they saw dark clouds gathering, and presently they were visited by a tremendous thunder-storm.
The sharp lightning flashed through the woods, and the rain poured down in torrents; yet, in
their camp they fearlessly sheltered themselves, the branches covering them from the rain.
A man can scarcely be placed during a thunder-storm in a more dangerous place than a forest:
every tree is a mark for the lightning; yet these men were calm and self-possessed, and were
mercifully protected.

The storm having passed over, they made their arrangements for the night. For safety's sake,
two men were to keep a constant watch, while the others slept; and in this duty of watching,
they were to take turns. About midnight, while Boone and Holden were keeping the watch, a sharp
shrill cry was heard in the woods. They sprang to their feet. "What noise is that?" said Holden.
The sound was familiar to Boone. "Be still," said he; "it is only a panther; come along with
me." Moving cautiously from the camp, they listened again for the cry. Once more they heard
it. Creeping through the woods in the direction of the sound, they at length saw through the
darkness the wild, glaring eyes of the animal. Boone levelled his rifle with steady aim, and
fired. With a wild yell the panther fell to the ground, and began to retreat. Both were satisfied
that the ball had struck him, and returned again to the camp. The crack of the rifle had waked
their companions; the adventure was made known to them, and they went quietly to sleep again,
satisfied that for the rest of the night at least that panther would not disturb them.

The next day was a very busy one. Finding game so plenty in the neighborhood, they determined
to lay in a good supply. Part of them were therefore out in the woods, hunting, while the rest
were in the camp, smoking, drying, and packing the venison for the journey. Fatigued with these
labors, when night came they gladly laid themselves down, and, like wearied men, slept soundly.

By the first ray of the morning's light the camp was stirring. Shouldering their rifles and
knapsacks, they started on their way. In a little time they found a dead panther. Boone declared
that this was his panther; the animal was killed with one ball, and by comparing that ball
with those in his shot-bag, he found they were of the same size. In two or three days they
reached the foot of the mountains, and began to ascend. Their journey was now rough and wearisome,
and they made slow progress. To any men but these, the mountains might have proved impassable;
but they were bent upon finding the new hunting-grounds of Kentucky, and nothing could keep
them back. After climbing the hills day after day, they found once more that their provisions
were gone, and were again forced to halt. Their camp was built on the side of the mountain,
and their rifles easily supplied their wants. The journey was rigorously renewed, and after
many days of further struggling, they at length found themselves on one of the tops of the
Allegany ridge. Here they were, upon Cumberland mountain. At this place they halted once more,
to look down upon the magnificent prospect which was spread out before them. This was their
first view of the new region, and they felt that it was all that Finley had described it to
be. It was indeed a glorious country. The land was covered with trees and flowers; there were
the rolling hills, and the beautiful valleys, and the clear sparkling streams, of which he
had spoken.

The prospect was too beautiful to allow them to tarry long: they panted to be in that country.
With more earnest desires than ever, they commenced descending the mountains. This part of
the journey was comparatively easy. In a few days now they reached the western base of the
hills, and entered a lovely plain. Here, for the first time, the new hunters saw the finest
of western game--a herd of buffaloes. From the skirt of the wood at the end of the plain, a
countless troop of these animals came rushing over it. The men were delighted; they had heard
of these noble beasts of the forest, but none of them, except Finley, had ever seen one. As
the mass came tramping toward them, they stood gazing in astonishment. Finley, who knew that
men were sometimes trampled to death by these moving troops, kept his eye steadily upon the
herd until the foremost was within rifle-shot; he then levelled his gun, and the leader fell
dead. With a wild bellow the herd parted on each side of the fallen animal, and went scampering
through the plain. There seemed no end to the number, as they still came rushing from the wood.
The mass appeared closing again in a solid body, when he seized Holden's rifle, and shot another.
Now they were completely routed; branching off on the two sides of the plain, they went bellowing
and tearing past them. "An amazing country, this!" cried Boone; "who ever beheld such an abundance?"
The camp was once more soon built, a blazing fire made, and, for the first time in their lives,
five of these men sat down to a supper of buffalo-meat. They talked of their new country, the
quantity of game, and how joyously they would roam through the huge forests, until the night
had worn far away.

The next morning, after breakfast, they packed up such portions of the animals as they could
readily carry, and resumed their march. In a little time they reached Red river. Here Finley
began to feel more at home, for on this river he had lived. Following the course of the stream,
ere long they came to the place which had been his trading-post with the Indians. They had
been more than a month reaching this point, and, naturally enough, were wearied. Finley, too,
could no longer guide them; and here, for the present, they determined to halt again. It was
now the seventh day of June.

As this was to be their headquarters for some time, they built at once a substantial log cabin.
They were now fairly in the wilds of Kentucky; and remembering that the whole region was the
fighting-ground of the wandering Indians, the cabin was built not only to protect them from
the weather, but to answer as a sort of fort against the savages. This shelter being provided,
their whole time now was given to hunting and exploring the country. Hunting was a pastime
indeed, the game was so abundant. They could look out upon herds of buffaloes scattered through
the canebrakes, browsing upon the leaves of the cane, or cropping the tall grass; the deer
bounded fearlessly by the very door of their hut, and wild turkeys were to be found everywhere.
Everything was in a state of nature; the animals had not yet learned to be afraid of man. Of
course, they did not suffer with hunger: provisions of the finest kind were ever in their cabin.
But the buffaloes provided them with more than food. From time to time, as they needed moccasins
for their feet, his skin supplied them; and when at night they felt the dampness of the weather,
his hide was the blanket in which they wrapped themselves and slept soundly.

The country, as they wandered through it, struck them as beautiful indeed. There were the lofty
trees of the forest, with no undergrowth except the cane, the grass, and the flowers. They
seemed to have been planted by the hand of man at regular distances. Clear streams were seen
winding through lovely meadows, surrounded by the gently-sloping hills; and the fearless buffalo
and deer were their companions every hour. In their wanderings they came several times to hard
and well-tramped roads. It was by following these that they discovered many of the salt springs
or licks where salt is made even now. The roads to these were worn thus hard by the buffaloes
and other animals that were in the habit of visiting the springs.

The place of Finley's old trading-post, where their cabin now stood, seems to have been chosen
by him not only as a central point for trade: it was on the side of a finely-sloping hill,
and commanded a good view of the country below. The situation was beautiful. Perhaps he chose
it when he was a lonely white man in the wilderness, because thence he might readily see the
approach of Indians, and make his escape, or perhaps it was the very beauty of the spot that
charmed him. He had a love for the beautiful. One day, he and Boone were standing by the door
of the cabin. The wind was sighing in the tops of the forest, and while they were listening
to the music, they were looking out upon the beautiful region below; the grass was green, and
the bright flowers turned up their leaves to the sun. "Glorious country!" cried Finley; "this
wilderness does indeed blossom like the rose."--"Yes," replied Boone, "and who would live amid
the barren pine-hills of North Carolina, to hear the screaming of the jay, and now and then
shoot a deer too lean to be eaten? This is the land for hunters. Here man and beast may grow
to their full size."

In this way, for more than six months, these men fearlessly hunted and roamed through the woods.
Contrary to their expectations, through the whole summer they saw no Indians, nor did they
meet with any remarkable adventure. The precaution of a nightly watch was adopted, but they
met with no disturbance from man or beast. They had glorious sport by day, and slept quietly
at night. After this, as you will see, they began to meet difficulties.

On the 22d of December, Boone and Stewart started off, as they had often done before, upon
an exploring tour. After wandering several miles, they pressed their way through a piece of
thick woods, and came out upon a boundless open forest. Here they found quantities of persimmon-trees,
loaded with ripe fruit, while clusters of wild grapes covered the vines that were hanging from
the lofty branches. Flowers were still in bloom, and scented the air; herds of animals might
be seen through the forest in every direction: add to this that the day was beautiful, and
you will not be surprised to learn that they continued to wander--indeed, that they wandered
much further than they supposed. It was nearly dark when they reached the Kentucky river, and
stood looking upon its rippling waters. Perceiving a hill close by, they climbed it, that they
might take a better view of the course of the stream. They were now descending, on their way
homeward, when suddenly they heard an Indian yell, and out rushed from the canebrake a party
of savages. They had no time for resistance--indeed, time was nothing; they were overpowered
by numbers. The savages seized them, took away their rifles and ammunition, bound them, and
marched them off to their camp. The next morning they started off with their prisoners, the
poor fellows not knowing where they were going, or what was to be done to them. They did not
know one word of their language, and could therefore learn nothing: this much, however, they
very well understood--that it would not do to show any signs of fear to the Indians; and therefore
they went on cheerfully. In a little time they became better acquainted with their captors,
and judged, from certain signs, that the Indians themselves had not determined what was to
be done. Part seemed to be for sparing them, part for killing; still their cheerfulness was
the same. This apparent fearlessness deceived the Indians; they supposed the prisoners were
well pleased with their condition, and did not watch them closely. On the seventh night of
their march, the savages, as usual, made their camp, and all laid down to sleep. About midnight,
Boone touched Stewart, and waked him: now or never was their time. They rose, groped their
way to the rifles, and stole from the camp. They hardly dared to look behind them; every sound
startled them, even the snapping of the twigs under their feet. Fortunately, it was dark, even
if the Indians pursued. They wandered all that night and the whole of the next day, when at
last, without meeting a man, they reached their own camp. But what was their surprise on finding
the camp plundered, and not one of their companions to be seen? What had become of them? Perhaps
they were prisoners; possibly they were murdered; or it might be that they had started back
for North Carolina. They were safe, but where were their comrades? Wearied in body, and tormented
with fears for their friends, they commenced preparing for the night. A sound was now heard.
They seized their rifles, and stood ready, expecting the Indians. Two men were seen indistinctly
approaching. "Who comes there?" cried Boone. "White men and friends," was the answer. Boone
knew the voice. In an instant more, his brother Squire Boone, with another man, entered the
cabin. These two men had set out from Carolina for the purpose of reaching them, and had for
days been wandering in search of their camp. It was a joyous meeting--the more joyous, because
unexpected. Big tears were again in Daniel Boone's eyes when he heard, from his brother, that
his wife and children were well.

CHAPTER III.

When Squire Boone had told his brother all the news of home, it became his turn to be a listener,
while Daniel talked to him of all that happened since they parted. After telling him of the
beautiful country, and their happy freedom as they wandered through it for six months, then
came the story of his captivity and escape. That escape was but just now made, and with a full
heart he dwelt upon this part of his story. It would not have been strange if Squire had now
felt alarmed; but his disposition was much like his brother's: he loved the woods, and was
afraid of nothing.

In a little time, the four were once more hunting freely through the forests. Signs of Indians
were to be seen around, however; possibly they were the very Indians who had captured them.
In their wanderings, therefore, they kept together usually, for self-protection. One day, they
started out upon a buffalo-hunt. As they came upon a herd of these animals, Stewart lodged
his ball in one of them, without bringing him down. The buffalo went tearing through the forest;
and Daniel Boone, with Stewart, forgetful of everything else, went chasing after him. Naturally
enough, like excited men, they had no idea how far they had travelled, until their very weariness
reminded them that it was time to turn back. Tired as he was, a harder race was now before
Boone. They had scarcely started on their return, when a party of Indians rushed from the canebrake,
and let fly their arrows. Stewart fell dead on the spot. Boone would have fired his rifle,
but he felt it was useless: he could kill but one man; his only chance of escape was in flight.
With Indian yells and arrows close behind him, he leaped forward, and, by tremendous exertions,
at last distanced his pursuers. When he reached the camp, he fell, completely exhausted.

The party, now cut down to three, was in a little time reduced to two. From some cause or other,
they could not tell what--possibly the sad story of Stewart's death, and the fear of like troubles--the
companion who had come out with Squire Boone determined upon returning to North Carolina. Very
soon, therefore, he left them alone in the wilderness.[2]

   [2] It is said by some that this man did not thus leave
   them. Their story is, that the three started out upon a
   hunt; that this man was separated from the Boones, and
   became entangled in a swamp. The Boones searched for him,
   but could not find him. Afterward, they found fragments
   of his clothes, which convinced them that the poor man
   had been torn to pieces by wolves.

   Daniel Boone, however, tells a different story. He says
   that the man left them, "and returned home by himself;"
   and I have preferred his statement to any other.

It is not strange that, being thus deserted, Squire Boone felt restless and dissatisfied; the
wonder is, that Daniel was not dissatisfied likewise. But he was happy and contented, and often
struggled to call up the same feelings in his brother. "You see," he would often say, "how
little nature requires, to be satisfied. This was good counsel, my young friends, and I hope
you will bear it with you through life. It will serve to comfort you as much as it did Squire
Boone.

To be idle, was to allow time for this melancholy, and Daniel Boone kept his brother constantly
busy. The Indians, they were certain, knew where their present camp was, and therefore they
resolved to make another. After choosing their spot, they employed themselves industriously
in erecting another cabin, which might serve to shelter them through the coming winter. This
being finished, they went to their old sport, wandering through the woods, admiring the country,
and bringing down now and then a buffalo or a deer with their rifles. At night, they would
return to their camp, raise a fire, cook their supper, and sit till long after midnight, talking
of their old home on the Yadkin. Squire forgot his loneliness, and became quite satisfied.
In this way time rolled off until the winter had passed away, and spring appeared. Strangely
enough, they had been undisturbed; they had met not even with one Indian.

They had learned in the wilderness to dispense well nigh with all comforts; food and sleep
were all they expected. But their powder and shot were now beginning to run low, and without
these they could not long procure food. It was necessary, therefore, to make some arrangement
whereby they might obtain a fresh supply. Their plan was soon settled: Squire Boone was to
go back to North Carolina, and return with ammunition. They supposed horses would be valuable,
also, and he was likewise to bring with him two of these. Perilous as the plan was, Squire
agreed to bear his part in it, and Daniel as cheerfully consented to his. Accordingly, on the
first day of May, Squire set off for the Yadkin; and, as if nothing was to be wanting to leave
Daniel in perfect loneliness, their only dog followed Squire as he started.

Here, then, Daniel Boone was left entirely alone. Here he was a sort of Robinson Crusoe in
the wilderness--with this difference, that Robinson was shipwrecked, and had no choice; while
Boone chose the wilderness as his home. He was now completely the "man of the woods"--far away,
hundreds of miles from any white settlement. For the first time in his life, according to his
own confession, he felt lonely. His mind was filled with the remembrance of his wife and children,
and the thought that he should never see them again. He knew, however, that sad thoughts, when
indulged in, will grow very rapidly, and therefore dismissed them.

For safety's sake now, he changed his camp every night, that he might avoid the Indians. Sometimes
he slept in the canebrake; sometimes he laid himself by the side of a stream; sometimes in
the caves of the rocks. By day he was surrounded by his old companions the buffaloes and deer,
and at night was not unfrequently disturbed by the howling of the wolves. He roamed over many
a beautiful tract of country. Now he would ascend a hill, and look down upon the scene spread
like a map before him; now he would trace some stream to its source, or, following the well-tramped
roads of the buffaloes, would find some spring bubbling in the forest. In this way he moved
over a large part of the country. At one time, he struck the Ohio river, and wandered for days
on the banks of that noble stream. It is said, that in his rambles, he one day stood upon the
spot where the city of Louisville now stands. He learned to love the woods more than ever.
Long after this, he used to declare, that "no crowded city, with all its commerce and noble
buildings, could give him as much pleasure as the beauty of Kentucky at that time afforded him."

Fortunately, he met no Indians. At one time he came in sight of a roving party, but managed
to escape from them. The mode in which he escaped will show you his perfect self-possession.
He had stopped one day to rest under the shade of a tree, when suddenly he spied the party
in the distance. This was enough for him. He immediately commenced his course through the forest,
hoping that they had not seen him, and therefore would not pursue. From time to time he would
look back through the woods; and at length became convinced, to his sorrow, that if they had
not seen him, they had marked his tracks, and were now on his trail. He pushed on for more
than two miles, trying in various ways to break the trail, and thus put them out; still, as
he looked back, he could see that they were following him He was puzzled to know what to do.
A happy thought now struck him. He had just passed the brow of a small hill; the heavy grape-vines
were hanging from the trees all around him. He seized one of these, and, bracing himself against
the tree with his feet, threw himself as far as he could. This broke the trail, and he now
kept directly on from the spot where he landed, in a different direction. The Indians came
up, tracking him as far as the tree: were then lost, and gave up the chase.

Another adventure is told of him during his lonely wanderings, more perilous even than this.
One day he heard a strange noise in the woods; he could see nothing, but stood ready with his
rifle. Presently an immense she-bear was seen approaching him. Surrounded by her young cubs,
she was doubly fierce. As she came near, Boone levelled his rifle and fired. Unfortunately,
his steady eye failed this time; the ball did not strike as he had aimed, and the animal pressed
forward, the more enraged. It was impossible to load again: the bear was upon him; he had only
time to draw his hunting-knife from his belt. The bear laid her paws on him, and drew him toward
her. The rifle in his left hand was a sort of guard, while with his right he pointed the knife
directly for the heart of the animal. As she grasped him, the knife entered her body, and she
fell dead.

As the time drew near for the return (as he thought) of his brother, Boone went back to the
old camp where they had lodged together, to meet him. Here day after day he kept his lookout--day
after day he was disappointed. He began now to be very sad. He did not doubt his brother's
fidelity; he knew he would not desert him; but there were many dangers by the way, and perhaps
he had perished. Then he thought, too, of his wife and little ones. If that brother had perished,
he likewise must die without seeing them. Without ammunition to procure food, or defend himself,
what could he do? He must die, there in the wilderness. His brother had been absent now nearly
three months: surely it was time for his return. Another day of disappointment was now drawing
to a close, as Boone sat, sick at heart, by the door of his cabin. A sound broke on his ear;
he rose and stood listening, with his hand on the lock of his rifle. It was the tread of horses.
The next moment he saw his brother through the forest leading two horses heavily laden. Here
was abundance of ammunition and other comfort. The evening of the 27th of July was long after
this remembered by Daniel Boone as one of the most joyous of his life.

A fire was soon made, their supper cooked, and long after midnight they sat talking. Thousands
of questions were asked and answered, until, wearied out, at last they lay down to sleep. The
sun was high in the heavens when they waked in the morning.

After breakfast, Daniel Boone proposed a new plan to his brother. Much as he loved the woods,
he felt that two men could hardly be safe in the neighborhood of so many Indians. Moreover
he longed to see his family: the stories of Squire had called up fresh recollections in his
heart. The plan therefore was, to select a suitable spot for their home, then return to Carolina
and bring out his family. Squire readily assented to this; and now they employed themselves
for several days in hunting and laying in a supply of provisions. This being done, they went
to the Cumberland river, and wandered for some time along the stream without finding a place
to please them. Roaming about now, they found many new streams, to which, as the first discoverers,
they gave names. Anxious as they were to return to the Yadkin, they were in no such hurry as
to neglect making a full survey. The whole winter passed away before they pleased themselves.
At length they came upon the Kentucky river. Here the lands delighted them. On the banks of
this stream they determined to make their settlement, and now (March, 1771) turned their faces
homeward. As he left the chosen spot, Boone says that "he felt it was a second paradise, and
was resolved, at the risk of his life and fortune, that his family should have a home there."

As they journeyed eastward from the Kentucky river, they occasionally blazed their pathway
(as huntsmen say) that they might find their way back. It was necessary thus to leave some
track through the forest wilderness, that they might again reach their chosen spot.[3] Fortunately
they met with no Indians.

   [3] This mode of marking their track is often practised
   by hunters in the woods. As they pass through the forest,
   they mark the trees by cutting off a small piece of the
   bark. This enables them again to find the same pathway,
   and is commonly called "blazing the track."

We hear of but one adventure on their way homeward. After travelling quietly several days,
they were one morning startled by a noise. Presently a herd of buffaloes came rushing and tearing
through the forest; they seemed frantic. The cause of all this was soon seen. A panther, seated
upon the back of one of the buffaloes, had plunged his claws and teeth into him. The blood
was streaming down his sides, and the poor animal, struggling to shake him off, rushed into
the midst of the herd. This frightened the rest, and they went bellowing and dashing through
the woods. Daniel Boone raised his rifle, and sent a ball through the panther. He fell dead.
Not far off they met a pack of wolves, following as usual in the track of the buffaloes. For
the fun of seeing them scatter, Squire now fired his rifle, and away they went, scampering
in all directions.

In due time they came to the mountains. After trying to ascend in various places, at length
they found a narrow and rugged gap, through which with great difficulty they made their way.
It was, however, the best pass they could discover, and they blazed their track, that they
might find it again. In a little time now, Daniel Boone was again in his cabin on the banks
of the Yadkin. I need hardly say there was a joyous meeting; he was once more happy in the
bosom of his family. He had been absent nearly two years.

Amid the joys of home, however, he did not forget his chosen spot in Kentucky; his heart was
filled with the thought that his happy home might be happier there. As this was to be his final
move, it was necessary to settle all his business on the Yadkin; and as he had tried the wilderness,
he felt that a few trusty companions would be invaluable in that new region. He commenced,
therefore, making what he thought proper preparations for a return. To beat up such neighbors
as they desired, he and Squire gave glowing accounts of the new country; the rich lands, the
forests, the streams, the flowers, and the game, were all talked of. They saw only, and consequently
spoke only, of the bright side of the picture. But there were numbers of people to talk of
difficulties; these spoke of the folly of the Boones, in thinking of making such a country
their home, and the madness of any man who should think of following them; the country was
wild, and all who settled there must suffer many privations: then, too (according to their
story), it was afflicted with terrible diseases, and they might all expect to die there, or,
if they escaped the climate, they must fall into the hands of the fierce and cruel Indians
who roamed through those forests; the place they declared was so dangerous that it was known,
wherever it was known, as "the dark and bloody ground." With these sad stories floating about
continually, it is not wonderful that the Boones found difficulty in beating up companions,
and that more than two years passed away before they were ready for a start. At the end of
that time they found that, while many were opposed to them, and others wavering as to what
they would do, there were some, prompted by a spirit of bold adventure, ready to join them.
Five families were willing to go with them to Kentucky.

Daniel Boone now sold his farm, and all things being made ready, on the 25th of September,
1773, the little company bade farewell to their friends and started for the west, driving before
them their flocks and their herds. In their route, not a great way from the Yadkin, was the
settlement of Powel's valley. The story of their plan had spread through the neighborhood,
and when they reached this spot they were delighted to find that the people were not so timid
as those on the Yadkin: forty men here joined the party. Now they travelled on in high spirits;
the whole body, old and young, numbering between seventy and eighty souls.

In a little time they came to the mountains, and found the pathway blazed by the Boones. In
less than a fortnight they passed the first ridge of the Alleganies, known as "Powel's range,"
and were now quietly descending the second, known as "Walden's range," when sorrow overtook
them. They were in a dark and narrow gap, when the wild yell of Indians broke upon their ears.
The savages rushed into the gap behind them, and let fly their arrows. Six of the party fell
dead, a seventh was wounded. The men rallied around the women and children; the first discharge
of their rifles scattered the savages. But the mischief was done; the sudden attack of the
Indians was like a flash of lightning; they were seen only for an instant; yet, like the lightning,
they had done their work: there were the dead, and alas! among them was the oldest son of Daniel
Boone.

The party, a little time before so happy, was now in deep sorrow. What was to be done? The
Indians had not only killed their companions, but their flocks and herds had all fled in fright,
and could not be again gathered together. In dismay, the greater part were for retreating instantly
to the nearest white settlement; this was upon the Clinch river, forty miles behind them. The
Boones begged them to keep on their way--not to think of turning back; but it was all to no
purpose; most of them insisted on retreating, and they at length yielded to the general desire.
Accordingly, the dead were decently buried, and in great sadness they all traced their way
back to Clinch river.

Here Daniel Boone remained with his family eight months. At the end of that time he was requested
by Governor Dunmore, of Virginia, to go to the falls of the Ohio, to serve as a guide to a
party of surveyors who had been sent there some months before. The western country was now
beginning to attract attention, and the Indians were becoming very hostile to the whites. Accordingly,
on the 6th of June, 1774, he started (with one man, Michael Stoner), and without any accident
reached the point at which he aimed--the spot where Louisville now stands. The service for
the surveyors was promptly performed, and they were enabled to complete their work, while Boone
was at liberty to return to his family. It is remarkable that he made this journey on foot,
a distance of eight hundred miles, through a trackless wilderness, in the short period of sixty-two
days.

He was not allowed to remain quiet long; soon after his return, the Indians northwest of the
Ohio, especially the Shawanese, made open war upon the whites. Governor Dunmore felt bound
to protect his countrymen, and, among other acts for their defence, sent Daniel Boone, with
the title of captain, to take command of three garrisons. This service was likewise well performed;
matters were soon more quiet, the soldiers were discharged, and Boone was relieved from his post.

He had not been a wanderer in the woods in vain; his fame had gone abroad, and his services
were in the following spring sought again. A company of gentlemen in North Carolina--the principal
man of whom was Colonel Richard Henderson--were attempting to purchase the lands on the south
side of the Kentucky river, from the Cherokee Indians.[4] They had agreed to hold a treaty
with the Indians, at Wataga, in March, 1775, to settle the boundaries of their intended purchase,
and they now desired Boone to attend that treaty, and manage their business. In compliance
with their wish, he went to Wataga, and performed their service so well, that they gave him
further employment. He was now requested to mark out a road from their settlement, through
the wilderness, to Kentucky river. This was a work of great labor. It was necessary to make
many surveys to find the best route, and when the best was found, it was, much of it, over
mountains and rugged regions. With a number of laborers, he commenced the work. He met with
two attacks from the Indians by the way, in which four of his men were killed, and five wounded.
Undaunted, he pushed resolutely on, and, in the month of April, reached the Kentucky river.
To guard themselves from the savages, they immediately commenced the building of a fort at
a salt lick, about sixty yards from the south bank of the stream. The Indians annoyed them
from time to time, while they were thus engaged, but fortunately killed but one man. On the
14th day of June the fort was finished, and Boone started back for his family on Clinch river.
As an honor to him, the party gave to this first settlement in the wilderness of Kentucky the
name of Boonesborough.

   [4] It is said that it was by Daniel Boone's advice that
   they first thought of making this purchase.

He reached his family without accident, and, as rapidly as he could, retraced his way with
them through the forest. The fort consisted of several cabins, surrounded by pickets ten feet
high, planted firmly in the ground. In one of these, Daniel Boone found a shelter for his family.
The long desire of his heart was at last gratified: he had a home in Kentucky.

CHAPTER IV.

It was now the season of autumn; the trees had not yet shed their leaves, and the forests were
still beautiful. Mrs. Boone felt happy as she looked upon her new home. Winter came, and glided
rapidly and joyously away. With their axes and rifles, the men in the settlement brought in
constant and ample supplies of fuel and game, and around the blazing hearth of Daniel Boone
there was not one in the family who sighed for the old home on the Yadkin. Boone naturally
supposed that a fear of the Indians would be the principal trouble with his wife; and well
she might dread them, remembering the loss of her son formerly in the pass of the mountains.
Fortunately, however, she did not see an Indian through the season. But one white man was killed
by them during the winter, and he lost his life by unfortunately wandering away from the fort
unarmed. After this, the other settlers were more prudent; they never went without the pickets
for fuel without taking their rifles.

When spring opened, they were soon very busy. A small clearing without the pickets was first
made for a garden-spot. Mrs. Boone and her daughter brought out their stock of garden-seeds,
and commenced cultivating this, while the men went on earnestly in the work of preparing for
their fields. They were calculating that they were making their homes for life. Day after day
the neighborhood resounded with the crash of falling trees, as these hardy men levelled the
forests. While they were thus engaged, they were made happy by a new arrival. Colonel Calloway,
an old companion of Boone's, led by the desire of finding his old friend and a new country,
came out to the settlement this spring, and brought with him his two young daughters. Here,
then, were companions for Boone's daughter. The fathers were happy, and the mother and girls
delighted.

Spring had not passed away, however, before they were in sorrow about these children. When
the wild flowers began to bloom in the woods, the girls were in the habit of strolling around
the fort and gathering them to adorn their humble homes. This was an innocent and pleasant
occupation; it pleased the girls as well as their parents. They were only cautioned not to
wander far, for fear of the Indians. This caution, it seems, was forgotten. Near the close
of a beautiful day in July, they were wandering, as usual, and the bright flowers tempted them
to stroll thoughtlessly onward. Indians were in ambush; they were suddenly surrounded, seized,
and hurried away, in spite of their screams for help. They were carried by their captors to
the main body of the Indian party, some miles distant. Night came, and the girls did not return;
search was made for them, and they were nowhere to be found. The thought now flashed upon Boone
that the children were prisoners; the Indians had captured them. The parents were well nigh
frantic: possibly the girls were murdered. Boone declared that he would recover his child,
if alive, if he lost his own life in the effort. The whole settlement was at once roused: every
man offered to start off with the two fathers in search of the children. But Boone would not
have them all; some must remain behind, to protect the settlement. Of the whole number he chose
seven; he and Calloway headed them; and, in less time than I have been telling the story, laden
with their knapsacks and rifles, they were off in pursuit.

Which way were they to go? It was a long time before they could find a track of the party.
The wily Indians, as usual, had used all their cunning in hiding their footprints and breaking
their trail. Covering their tracks with leaves; walking at right angles occasionally from the
main path; crossing brooks by walking in them for some time, and leaving them at a point far
from where they entered: all this had been practised, and I presume that the fathers never
would have got on the track if the girls had not been as cunning as their captors. After wandering
about for some time, they came at length to a brook, and waded along it for a great while in
search of footprints. They looked faithfully far up and down the stream, for they knew the
Indian stratagem. Presently Calloway leaped up for joy. "God bless my child!" cried he; "they
have gone this way." He had picked up a little piece of riband which one of his daughters had
dropped, purposely to mark the trail. Now they were on the track. Travelling on as rapidly
as they could, from time to time they picked up shreds of handkerchiefs, or fragments of their
dresses, that the girls had scattered by the way. Before the next day ended, they were still
more clearly on the track. They reached a soft, muddy piece of ground, and found all the footprints
of the party; they were now able to tell the number of the Indians. The close of the next day
brought them still nearer to the objects of their search. Night had set in; they were still
wandering on, when, upon reaching a small hill, they saw a camp-fire in the distance. They
were now delighted; this surely was the party that had captured the girls. Everything was left
to the management of Boone. He brought his men as near the fire as he dared approach, and sheltered
them from observation under the brow of a hill. Calloway and another man were then selected
from the group; the rest were told that they might go to sleep: they were, however, to sleep
on their arms, ready to start instantly at a given signal. Calloway was to go with Boone; the
other man was stationed on the top of the hill, to give the alarm, if necessary. The two parents
now crept cautiously onward to a covert of bushes not far from the fire. Looking through, they
saw fifteen or twenty Indians fast asleep in the camp; but where were the girls? Crawling to
another spot, they pushed the bushes cautiously aside, and, to their great joy, saw in another
camp the daughters sleeping in each other's arms. Two Indians with their tomahawks guarded
this camp. One seemed to be asleep. They crept gently around in the rear of this. They were
afraid to use their rifles: the report would wake the other camp. Calloway was to stand ready
to shoot the sleeping Indian if he stirred, while Boone was to creep behind the other, seize,
and strangle him. They were then to hurry off with the children. Unfortunately, they calculated
wrong: the Indian whom they supposed to be sleeping was wide awake, and, as Boone drew near,
his shadow was seen by this man. He sprang up, and the woods rang with his yell. The other
camp was roused; the Indians came rushing to this. Boone's first impulse was to use his rifle,
but Calloway's prudence restrained him. Had he fired, it would have been certain destruction
to parents and children. They surrendered themselves prisoners, pleading earnestly at the same
time for their captive daughters. The Indians bound them with cords, placed guards over them,
and then retired to their camp. The poor girls, roused by the tumult, now saw their parents
in this pitiable condition. Here they were, likewise made captives, for their love of them.

There was no more sleep in the Indian camp that night. Till the dawn of the day they were talking
of what should be done to the new prisoners: some were for burning them at the stake; others
objected to this. Boone and Calloway were to be killed, but they were too brave to be killed
in this way. Some proposed making them run the gauntlet. At last it was decided (in pity for
the girls, it is said) that the parents should be killed in a more decent and quiet way. They
were to be tomahawked and scalped, and the girls were still to be kept prisoners. With the
morning's light they started out to execute the sentence. That the poor girls might not see
their parents murdered the men were led off to the woods, and there lashed to two trees. Two
of the savages stood before them with their tomahawks, while the rest were singing and dancing
around them. At length the tomahawks were lifted to strike them; at that instant the crack
of rifles was heard, and the two Indians fell dead. Another and another report was heard: others
fell, and the rest fled in dismay. Boone's companions had saved them. All night long they had
waited for the signal: none had been given; they had heard the Indian yell; they feared that
they were taken. They had watched the camp with the greatest anxiety, and now had delivered
them. They were instantly untied; the girls were quickly released, and in the arms of their
parents; and they all started joyously homeward. Mrs. Boone was delighted to see them. The
party had been so long gone, that she feared her husband and child were alike lost to her for ever.

It is not surprising that when men found out that a settlement had been made in Kentucky, others
were soon ready to start off for that fertile region. Accordingly, we find many arriving this
year, and settling themselves in the country. Harrod, Logan, Ray, Wagin, Bowman, and many other
fearless spirits, now threw themselves, like Boone, into the heart of the wilderness, and made
their forts, or stations, as they were called. These were just like the home of Boone--nothing
more than a few log cabins, surrounded by pickets. Indeed, the country began now to assume
so much importance in the eyes of men, that the Governor of Virginia thought proper to take
some notice of it. When the legislature met, he recommended that the southwestern part of the
county of Fincastle--which meant all the large tract of country west of the Alleganies now
known as Kentucky--should be made into a separate county, by the name of Kentucky. The legislature
thought it well to follow his advice. The new county was made, and had the privilege of sending
two members to the Virginia legislature.

Nor is it surprising that the Indians began now to be more violent than ever in their enmity.
They had been unwilling before that a white man should cross their path as they roamed over
their hunting-grounds; but now, when they saw clearings made, and houses built, they felt that
the whites meant to drive them for ever from that region. Their hatred consequently increased
now every hour. Another circumstance at this time served to rouse them the more against the
settlers. If you will think of the period of which I am speaking (the year 1776), perhaps you
may guess what it was. The colonists of America in that year, you will remember, declared themselves
independent of Great Britain. In the war which followed (known among us always as the Revolutionary
War), England struggled hard to subdue them; nor was she always choice as to the means which
she used for the purpose. She did not hesitate even to rouse the red men of the forests, and
give them arms to fight the colonists. They were not only turned loose upon them with their
own tomahawks and scalping-knives, but were well supplied with British rifles and balls. All
the new settlements in the land were troubled with them, and Kentucky had to bear her part
of the sorrow. These Indians would scatter themselves in small parties, and hang secretly for
days and nights around the infant stations. Until one is acquainted with Indian stratagems,
he can hardly tell how cunning these people are. By day they would hide themselves in the grass,
or behind the stumps of trees, near the pathways to the fields or springs of water, and it
was certain death to the white man who travelled that way. At night they would creep up to
the very gateway of the pickets, and watch for hours for a white man. If any part of his person
was exposed, he was sure to catch a rifle-ball. It was impossible to discover them, even when
their mischief was done. They would lie in the grass flat on their bellies for days, almost
under the very palisades. Sometimes an Indian yell would be heard near one point of the fort,
startling all the settlers--a yell raised only to draw them all in one direction, while the
Indians did their mischief in another. In this sneaking mode of warfare, men, women, and children,
were killed in many places; and not unfrequently whole droves of cattle were cut off.

At length, to the great joy of the settlers, the Indians began to show themselves more boldly:
for anything was better than these secret ambushes of the savages; an open enemy is not so
much to be dreaded as a secret one. Boonesborough and Harrodsburgh (a settlement made by James
Harrod, a bold adventurer from the banks of the Monongahela) were now the principal stations.
Toward these, new emigrants were from time to time moving, and against these stations, as being
the strongest, the Indians felt the greatest hatred, and directed their principal attacks.
Early in the spring of 1777, a party was moving toward Harrodsburgh: fortunately, the Indians
attacked them; for, though two whites were killed, the attack probably saved the settlement.
It was only four miles from the place, and the Indians were now on their way there. One young
man escaped in the midst of the fight to give the alarm at Harrodsburgh. The station was instantly
put in a state of defence. Ere long, the Indians appeared. A brisk firing at once commenced
on both sides; the savages saw one of their men fall, and finding that they were not likely
to gain any advantage, soon scattered for the woods. The whites lost one man also, and three
were slightly wounded.

On the 15th of April, a party of one hundred savages appeared boldly before Boonesborough.
Every man of them was armed with his gun, as well as bow and arrows. Boone, however, was prepared
for them, and gave them a warm reception--so warm, that they soon gladly retreated. How many
of their men were killed it was impossible to tell, for they dragged away their dead with them.
In the fort one man was killed, and four were badly wounded.

Their loss this time only served to make them more revengeful. In July following they again
came against Boonesborough, resolved upon vengeance. They numbered this time more than two
hundred. To prevent any of the white settlements from sending aid to Boonesborough, they had
sent off small parties to molest them, and keep them busy. The savages now commenced their
attack, and for two days a constant firing was kept up. At last, finding their efforts again
idle, they raised a loud yell, and returned to the forests. The whites could now count their
slain and wounded as they dragged them off: seven were killed, and numbers wounded, while in
the fort only one white man was slain. In spite of their numbers and their cunning, they did
but little harm: for Boone was never found sleeping; he knew that Indians were his neighbors,
and he was always ready for them. After this, they learned to dread him more than ever. He
now went by the name of the "Great Long Knife."

Attacks of this kind were made from time to time openly against the settlements, but especially
against these two principal stations. They all ended very much in the same way, and it would
only weary you if I should attempt to speak of them. It is enough for you to know that the
whites were always on the lookout, and that Boone was regarded as their principal leader and
protector. We will pass on, therefore, to something more interesting.

I have already stated that the stations of these settlers were usually built, for comfort's
sake, in the neighborhood of salt licks or springs; and near such a lick, as you will remember,
Boonesborough stood. The supply of salt, however, was not sufficient; new settlers were often
arriving, and it became necessary to seek a place which would afford more of that article.
Boone was the father of the settlement, and he undertook to find it. Having selected thirty
men as his companions, on the 1st of January, 1778, he started for the Blue Licks, on Licking
river--a stream, as you know, emptying itself into the Ohio opposite where Cincinnati now stands.
Upon reaching this spot, the thirty men were soon very busy in making salt. Boone, having no
taste for the work, sauntered off to employ himself in shooting game for the company. He had
wandered some distance from the river one day, when suddenly he came upon two Indians armed
with muskets. It was impossible for him to retreat, and the chances were against him if he
stood. His usual coolness did not forsake him; he instantly jumped behind a tree. As the Indians
came within gun-shot, he exposed himself on the side of the tree: one savage immediately fired,
and Boone dodged the ball. One shot was thus thrown away, and this was just what he desired.
Exposing himself immediately in precisely the same way, the other musket was discharged by
the other Indian, to as little purpose. He now stepped boldly out; the Indians were trying
hard to load again; he raised his rifle, and one savage fell dead. He was now on equal terms
with the other. Drawing his hunting-knife, he leaped forward and placed his foot upon the body
of the dead Indian; the other raised his tomahawk to strike but Boone, with his rifle in his
left hand, warded off the blow, while with his right he plunged his knife into the heart of
the savage. His two foes lay dead before him. If you should ever visit Washington city, you
will see a memorial of this deed. The act is in sculpture, over the southern door of the rotundo
of the capitol.

After this he continued his hunting excursions as usual, for the benefit of his party; but
he was not so fortunate the next time he met with Indians. On the 7th of February, as he was
roaming through the woods, he saw a party of one hundred savages on their way to attack Boonesborough.
His only chance for escape now was to run. He instantly fled, but the swiftest warriors gave
chase, and before a great while he was overtaken and made a prisoner. He was, of all men, the
one whom they desired to take; they could now gain, as they thought, some information about
Boonesborough. They now carried him back to the Blue Licks. As they drew near, Boone, knowing
that it was idle to resist, made signs to the salt-makers to surrender themselves. This they
did, and thus the savages soon had in their possession twenty-eight captives. Fortunately for
themselves, three of the men had started homeward with a supply of salt, and thus escaped.

Now was the time for the savages to have attacked Boonesborough; for, with the loss of so many
men, and Boone their leader, we may readily suppose that the station might have surrendered.
Flushed, however, with the capture of their prisoners, they seem not to have thought of it
any longer.

The prisoners were marched immediately to Old Chilicothe, the principal Indian town on the
Little Miami, where they arrived on the 18th. There was great rejoicing over them when they
reached this old settlement of the savages, though Boone says they were "treated as kindly
as prisoners could expect." Early in the next month Boone with ten of his men was marched off
to Detroit by forty Indians. Here Governor Hamilton, the British commander of that post, treated
them with much kindness. The ten men were soon delivered up for a small ransom. But when the
Governor offered them one hundred pounds to give up Boone, that he might allow him to return
home, they refused to part with him; they looked upon him as too dangerous an enemy to be allowed
to go free upon any terms. Several English gentlemen were moved with pity when they saw Boone
thus a helpless prisoner, and offered to supply his wants. He thanked them for their feeling,
but refused to receive any aid, stating that he never expected to be able to return their kindness,
and therefore was unwilling to receive it. The truth was, he was not disposed to receive assistance
from the enemies of his country.

With no other prisoner than Boone, the party now started again for Old Chilicothe. As they
drew near, after a very fatiguing march, Boone thought he understood why they had refused to
part with him. Before they entered the village, they shaved his head, painted his face, and
dressed him like themselves; they then placed in his hands a long white staff, ornamented with
deers' tails. The chief of the party then raised a yell, and all the warriors from the village
answered it, and soon made their appearance. Four young warriors commenced singing as they
came toward him. The two first, each bearing a calumet, took him by the arms and marched him
to a cabin in the village; here he was to remain until his fate was made known to him. Of all
strange customs of the Indians (and he had seen many of them), this was the strangest to him.
It is not wonderful that he thought he was now to die.

Yet this was a common custom (it is said) among the Shawanese, who inhabited this village.
Prisoners were often thus carried to some cabin, and then the Indian living in the cabin decided
what should be done--whether the prisoner should die, or be adopted into the tribe. It happened
that in this cabin lived an old Indian woman, who had lately lost a son in battle. She, of
course, was to decide Boone's fate. She looked at him earnestly, admired his noble bearing
and cheerful face, and at length declared that he should live. He should be her son, she said;
he should be to her the son whom she had lost. The young warriors instantly announced to him
his fate, and the fact was soon proclaimed through the village. Food was brought out and set
before him; and every effort, which Indian love could think of, was used to make him happy.
He was fairly one of the tribe; and the old woman who was to be his mother was especially delighted.

He was now as free as the rest; his only sorrow was that he had to live among them. He knew,
too, that if he should be caught trying to make his escape, it would be certain death to him.
He pretended, therefore, to be cheerful and happy; and fortunately his old habits enabled him
to play his part well. Like them, he was a man of the woods, and as fond of hunting as any
of them. They all soon became attached to him, and treated him with the utmost confidence.

Sometimes large parties would go out to try their skill at their sports of racing and shooting
at a mark. Boone was always with them; he knew, however, that in trials of this kind the Indians
were always jealous if they were beaten, and therefore he had to act very prudently. At racing,
they could excel him; but at shooting, he was more than a match for any of them. Still, when
the target was set up, he was always certain to be beaten. If he shot too well, they would
be jealous and angry; if he shot badly, they would hold him in contempt: and therefore he would
manage to make good shots, and yet never be the successful man. He knew too much of Indians
not to conduct himself properly.

Sometimes they would start out upon hunting parties. Here Boone was at home; there was no jealousy
when he brought down a buffalo or a deer with his rifle-ball. He might do his best; they were
true hunters themselves, and were delighted with every successful shot. Returning to the village,
Boone would always visit the Shawanese chief, and present him a portion of his game. By this
kindness and civility he completely won the heart of the chief, and was not unfrequently consulted
by him on important matters. Thus he passed his time, joining in all their modes of living;
he was beloved by the old woman, the chief, and all the tribe: and none suspected that he was
not contented and happy.

On the 1st of June, a large party was starting from the village for the salt-licks on the Scioto,
to make salt. Boone pretended to be indifferent whether he went or not. The truth was, however,
that he was very anxious to go, for he thought it would afford a fine opportunity for him to
escape. He seemed so indifferent about the matter, that the party urged him to accompany them,
and off he started. For ten days most of them were busy making salt, while Boone and two or
three of the best marksmen hunted for the benefit of the rest. He watched his chance for escape,
but none occurred; he was closely observed, it was impossible for him to attempt it. To his
great sorrow, he was forced to return home with the salt-makers.

They had scarcely got back, when the whole village was summoned to the council-house, to attend
a council of war. Boone, as belonging to one of the principal families, went to this council.
Here he met four hundred and fifty armed Indians, all gayly painted. One of the oldest warriors
then struck a large drum, and marched with the war-standard three times round the council-house:
this was the sure signal that they were about to make war upon some enemy. But who was the
enemy? What was Boone's surprise when it was announced that they meant to attack Boonesborough!
He resolved now that he would escape, even at every hazard, and alarm the settlement. Still
his prudence did not forsake him.

The old warriors at once commenced gathering together a supply of parched corn, and beating
up more recruits for the expedition. All the new men (Boone among the rest, for he was forced
to join them) were then marched off to the "winter-house" to drink the war-drink. This was
a mixture of water and bitter herbs and roots, and was to be drank steadily for three days,
during which time no man was to eat a morsel. Even if a deer or buffalo passed by, no man was
to kill it; the fast must be kept. In fact, no man was allowed even to sit down, or rest himself
by leaning against a tree. This was done by the old men to purify the young warriors, as they
said, and to gain the favor of the Great Spirit. All this was a common practice with the tribe
before they went to battle; and the more strictly the fast was kept, the greater (as they supposed)
were the chances of success. During these three days, Boone, like the rest, kept the fast,
drank the war-drink, and did not even leave the "medicine-ground."

The fast being over, they fired their guns, yelled, danced, and sang; and in the midst of this
noise the march commenced. The leading war-chief, bearing the medicine-bag, or budget (as it
was called), went before; the rest followed in single file. Nothing but shouting and yelling,
and the noise of guns, was heard, as they passed through the village. When they reached the
woods, all the noise ceased; they were fairly on their march, and that march was to be made
after the Indian fashion, in dead silence. For several days this dead march was kept up, Boone
looking every hour for his chance of escape. At length, early one morning, a deer dashed by
the line. Boone leaped eagerly after him, and started in pursuit. No sooner was he out of sight
of the Indians, than he pressed for Boonesborough. He knew they would give chase, and therefore
he doubled his track, waded in streams, and did everything that he could to throw them off
his trail. Every sound startled him; he thought the Indians were behind him. With no food but
roots and berries, and scarcely time to devour these, he pushed through swamps and thickets
for his old home. Now or never was his chance for liberty, and as such he used it. At length,
after wandering nearly two hundred miles, on the fourth day he reached Boonesborough in safety.

CHAPTER V.

Before we go on, let me tell you of some of the curious customs which Boone noticed among the
Indians, during his captivity. He had a fine opportunity for observation, and I think these
strange customs will interest you.

It is not wonderful that Indian men and women are so hardy; they are trained to it from their
youth: and Boone tells us how they are trained. When a child is only eight years old, this
training commences; he is then made to fast frequently half a day; when he is twelve, he is
made to fast a whole day. During the time of this fast, the child is left alone, and his face
is always blacked. This mode of hardening them is kept up with girls until they are fourteen--with
boys until they are eighteen. At length, when a boy has reached the age of eighteen, his parents
tell him that his education is completed, and that he is old enough to be a man! His face is
now to be blacked for the last time. He is taken to a solitary cabin far away from the village;
his face is blacked, and then his father makes to him a speech of this kind: "My son, the Great
Spirit has allowed you to live to see this day. We have all noticed your conduct since I first
began to black your face. All people will understand whether you have followed your father's
advice, and they will treat you accordingly. You must now remain here until I come after you."
The lad is then left alone. His father then goes off hunting, as though nothing had happened,
and leaves his boy to bear his hunger as long it is possible for him to starve and live. At
length he prepares a great feast, gathers his friends together, and then returns. The lad is
then brought home, his face is washed in cold water, his hair is shaved, leaving nothing but
the scalp-lock; they all commence eating, but the food of the lad is placed before him in a
separate dish. This being over, a looking-glass and a bag of paint are then presented to him.
Then they all praise him for his firmness, and tell him that he is a man. Strange as it may
seem, a boy is hardly ever known to break his fast when he is blacked this way for the last
time. It is looked upon as something base, and they have a dread that the Great Spirit will
punish them if they are disobedient to their parents.

Another curious habit which surprised Boone was that of continually changing names. A white
man carries the same name from the cradle to the grave, but among these people it was very
different. Their principal arms, as you know, are the tomahawk and scalping-knife, and he who
can take the greatest number of scalps is the greatest man. From time to time, as warriors
would return from an attack upon some enemy, these new names would begin to be known. Each
man would count the number of scalps he had taken, and a certain number entitled him to a new
name, in token of his bravery. It is not wonderful that they were revengeful, when they were
stimulated by this sort of ambition. Besides this, they believed that he who took the scalp
of a brave man received at once all his courage and other good qualities; and this made them
more eager in their thirst for scalps. In this way, names of warriors were sometimes changed
three or four times in a year.

Marriages in this tribe were conducted very decently. When a young warrior desired to marry,
he assembled all his friends, and named the woman whom he wished for his wife. His relations
then received his present, and took it to the parents of the young woman. If they were pleased
with the proposal, they would dress the young woman in her gayest clothes, and take her, with
bundles of presents, to the friends of the warrior; then, if she pleased, she was to be married.
There was no compulsion in the matter. If she was not satisfied, she had only to return his
present to the young warrior, and this was considered a refusal.

Their mode of burying their dead was very much like that of all the Indians. The dead body
was sometimes placed in a pen made of sticks and covered over with bark; sometimes it was placed
in a grave, and covered first with bark, and then with dirt; and sometimes, especially in the
case of the young, it was placed in a rude coffin, and suspended from the top of a tree. This
last was a common mode of infant burial, and the mother of the child would often be found,
long after, standing under the tree, and singing songs to her babe.

Boone witnessed, too, the mode in which war-parties start off for war. The budget, or medicine-bag,
is first made up. This bag contains something belonging to each man of the party--something
usually representing some animal, such as the skin of a snake, the tail of a buffalo, the horns
of a buck, or the feathers of a bird. It is always regarded as a very sacred thing. The leader
of the party goes before with this; the rest follow in single file. When they come to a stand,
the budget is laid down in front, and no man may pass it without permission. To keep their
thoughts upon the enterprise in which they are engaged, no man is allowed to talk of women
or his home. At night, when they encamp, the heart of whatever animal has been killed during
the day is cut into small pieces and then burnt. During the burning no man is allowed to step
across the fire, but must always walk around it in the direction of the sun. When they spy
the enemy, and the attack is to be made, the war-budget is opened. Each man takes out his budget,
or totem, and fastens it to his body. After the fight, each man again returns his totem to
the leader. They are all again tied up, and given to the man who has taken the first scalp.
He then leads the party in triumph home.

Boone had not long been a prisoner among them when a successful war-party returned home and
celebrated their victory. When the party came within a day's march of the village, a messenger
was sent in to tell of their success. An order was instantly issued that every cabin should
be swept clean, and the women as quickly commenced the work. When they had finished, the cabins
were all inspected, to see if they were in proper order. Next day the party approached the
village. They were all frightfully painted, and each man had a bunch of white feathers on his
head. They were marching in single file, the chief of the party leading the way, bearing in
one hand a branch of cedar, laden with the scalps they had taken, and all chanting their war-song.
As they entered the village, the chief led the way to the war-pole which stood in front of
the council-house. In this house the council-fire was then burning. The waiter, or Etissu of
the leader, then fixed two blocks of wood near the war-pole, and placed upon them a kind of
ark, which was regarded by them as one of their most sacred things. The chief now ordered that
all should sit down. He then inquired whether his cabin was prepared, and everything made ready,
according to the custom of his fathers. They then rose up and commenced the war-whoop, as they
marched round the war-pole. The ark was then taken and carried with great solemnity into the
council-house, and here the whole party remained three days and nights, separate from the rest
of the people. Their first business now was to wash themselves clean, and sprinkle themselves
with a mixture of bitter herbs. While they were thus in the house, all their female relatives,
after having bathed and dressed themselves in their finest clothes, placed themselves in two
lines facing each other on each side of the door. Here they continued singing a slow monotonous
song all day and night; the song was kept up steadily for one minute, with intervals of ten
minutes of dead silence between. About once in three hours the chief would march out at the
head of his warriors, raise the war-whoop, and pass around the war-pole, bearing his branch
of cedar. This was all that was done for the whole three days and nights. At length the purification
was ended, and upon each of their cabins was placed a twig of the cedar with a fragment of
the scalps fastened to it, to satisfy the ghosts of their departed friends. All were now quiet
as usual, except the leader of the party and his waiter, who kept up the purification three
days and nights longer. When he had finished, the budget was hung up before his door for thirty
or forty days, and from time to time Indians of the party would be seen singing and dancing
before it. When Boone asked the meaning of all this strange ceremony, they answered him by
a word which he says meant holy.

As this party had brought in no prisoners, he did not now witness their horrible mode of torture.
Before he left them, however, he saw enough of their awful cruelty in this way. Sometimes the
poor prisoner would be tied to a stake, a pile of green wood placed around him, fire applied,
and the poor wretch left to his horrible fate, while, amid shouts and yells, the Indians departed.
Sometimes he would be forced to run the gauntlet between two rows of Indians, each one striking
at him with a club until he fell dead. Others would be fastened between two stakes, their arms
and legs stretched to each of them, and then quickly burnt by a blazing fire. A common mode
was to pinion the arms of the prisoner, and then tie one end of a grape-vine around his neck,
while the other was fastened to the stake. A fire was then kindled, and the poor wretch would
walk the circle; this gave the savages the comfort of seeing the poor creature literally roasting,
while his agony was prolonged. Perhaps this was the most popular mode, too, because all the
women and children could join in it. They were there, with their bundles of dry sticks, to
keep the fire blazing, and their long switches, to beat the prisoner. Fearful that their victim
might die too soon, and thus escape their cruelty, the women would knead cakes of clay and
put them on the skull of the poor sufferer, that the fire might not reach his brain and instantly
kill him. As the poor frantic wretch would run round the circle, they would yell, dance, and
sing, and beat him with their switches, until he fell exhausted. At other times, a poor prisoner
would be tied, and then scalding water would be poured upon him from time to time till he died.
It was amazing, too, to see how the warriors would sometimes bear these tortures. Tied to the
stake, they would chant their war-songs, threaten their captors with the awful vengeance of
their tribe, boast of how many of their nation they had scalped and tell their tormentors how
they might increase their torture. In the midst of the fire they would stand unflinching, and
die without changing a muscle. It was their glory to die in this way; they felt that they disappointed
their enemies in their last triumph.

While Boone was with them, a noted warrior of one of the western tribes, with which the Shawanese
were at war, was brought in as a captive. He was at once condemned, stripped, fastened to the
stake, and the fire kindled. After suffering without flinching for a long time, he laughed
at his captors, and told them they did not know how to make an enemy eat fire. He called for
a pipe and tobacco. Excited by his bravery, they gave it to him. He sat down on the burning
coals, and commenced smoking with the utmost composure; not a muscle of his countenance moved.
Seeing this, one of his captors sprang forward and cried out that he was a true warrior. Though
he had murdered many of their tribe, yet he should live, if the fire had not spoiled him. The
fire had, however, well nigh done its work. With that, he declared that he was too brave a
man to suffer any longer. He seized a tomahawk and raised it over the head of the prisoner:
still a muscle did not move. He did not even change his posture. The blow was given, and the
brave warrior fell dead.

While among them, Boone also witnessed the mode in which, the Shawanese make a treaty of peace.
The warriors of both tribes between which the treaty was to be made, met together first, ate
and smoked in a friendly way, and then pledged themselves in a sacred drink called cussena.
The Shawanese then waved large fans, made of eagles' tails, and danced. The other party, after
this, chose six of their finest young men, painted them with white clay, and adorned their
heads with swans' feathers; their leader was then placed on what was called the "consecrated
seat." After this they all commenced dancing, and singing their song of peace. They danced
first in a bending posture; then stood upright, still dancing, and bearing in their right hands
their fans, while in their left they carried a calabash, tied to a stick about a foot long,
and with this continually beat their breasts. During all this, some added to the noise by rattling
pebbles in a gourd. This being over, the peace was concluded. It was an act of great solemnity,
and no warrior was considered as well trained, who did not know how to join in every part of it.

Many other strange things were seen by Boone among these people, but these are enough to show
you that he was among a strange people, with habits very unlike his own. It is not wonderful
that he sighed to escape, when he looked upon their horrid tortures. Independently of his love
for Boonesborough, he did not know but that such tortures might be his at any moment, when
they became excited. Fortunately, as we have seen, he did escape, and we will now go on with
his story.

CHAPTER VI.

When Boone reached Boonesborough, the object he most loved was not to be found. His poor wife,
wearied with waiting for him, and naturally concluding that he was lost to her for ever, had
returned to her friends on the Yadkin. The settlers had begged her to remain, and offered her
every kindness; but her husband was gone: she was heart-sick, and longed to return to her friends
in Carolina. Disappointed as he was, however, he had no time to waste in sorrow. The Indians
were approaching, and Boonesborough was well nigh defenceless. Just before his return, a Major
Smith had taken charge of the post, and been busy in strengthening it, but much was still to
be done. Boone's energies were now at work, and in a little time the station was ready for
an attack. A white man now came into the settlement with news. He had escaped from the Indians.
The party from which Boone had escaped had postponed their attack for three weeks, and gone
back to strengthen themselves. They felt that Boone had reached home--the alarm was given,
the place fortified--and that it was idle to attack it at this time.

Boone determined at once to improve the mean season. With nineteen men, he started off to surprise
the Indians at Paint Creek Town, a small village on the Scioto. When he came within four miles
of the place, he met a party of the savages on their way to join the large body marching against
Boonesborough. The fight instantly commenced: one Indian fell dead, several were wounded, and
the rest were forced to retreat; their horses and all their baggage fell into the hands of
Boone. Two men were now sent to reconnoitre the town. They found no Indians there; they had
all left. After setting fire to the village, they returned, and Boone immediately hurried homeward.

He had scarcely entered the station, and closed the gates, when an army of four hundred and
forty-four Indians, led on by a Frenchman named Duquesne, appeared before the settlement. They
soon sent in a flag, demanding, in the name of the King of Great Britain, that the station
should instantly surrender. A council was immediately held in the fort. With such a force before
them, Smith was in favor of meeting their proposal; Boone opposed it; the settlers backed him
in this opposition; and he sent back for an answer to the Indians that the gates should never
be opened to them. Presently another flag of truce was sent in, with a message that they had
a letter for Colonel Boone from Governor Hamilton, of Detroit. Upon hearing this, it was thought
best that Boone and Smith should go out and meet them, and hear what they had to say.

Fifty yards from the fort they were met by three chiefs, who received them very cordially,
and led them to the spot where they were to hold the parley. Here they were seated upon a panther's
skin, while the Indians held branches over their heads to protect them from the sun. The chiefs
then commenced talking in a friendly way, and some of their warriors now came forward, grounded
their arms, and shook hands with them. Then the letter of General Hamilton was read; he invited
them to surrender and come at once to Detroit where they should be treated with all kindness.
Smith objected to this proposal, declaring that it was impossible for them, at this time, to
move their women and children; but the Indians had an answer ready: they had brought forty
horses with them, they said, expressly to help them in removing. After a long and friendly
talk, the white men returned to the fort, for the purpose, as they said, of considering the
proposal. They now informed the settlers that the Indians had no cannon, and advised them never
to think of surrendering. Every man thought the advice good.

The Indians now sent in another flag, and asked what treaty the whites were ready to make.
Boone, who had suspected treachery all the time, at once sent a reply, that if they wished
to make a treaty, the place for making it, must be within sixty yards of the fort. This displeased
them at first, but at last, they consented. He then stationed some of his men, with their guns,
in one angle of the fort, with orders to fire if it became necessary, and, with Smith, started
out to meet them. After a long talk with thirty chiefs, terms were agreed upon, and the treaty
was ready to be signed; the chiefs now said that it was customary with them, on such occasions,
for the Indians to shake hands with every white man who signed the treaty, as a token of the
warmest friendship. Boone and Smith agreed to this, and the shaking of hands commenced; presently,
they found themselves seized in the crowd--the Indians were dragging them off; a fire from
the fort now levelled the savages who grasped them; the rest were in confusion, and, in the
confusion, Boone and Smith escaped and rushed into the fort. In the struggle Boone was wounded,
though not dangerously. It was a narrow escape for both of them.

There was no more chance for deception now; the Indians were disappointed, and the whites were
provoked at their treachery. A brisk firing now commenced on both sides; Duquesne harangued
the Indians and urged them on, while the whites shouted from the fort, upbraided them as treacherous
cowards, and defied them. The attack was furious, the firing was kept up till dark, and many
an Indian fell that day before Boonesborough. The whites, sheltered by their pickets, made
easy havoc among them.

When night came, the exasperated Indians crawled under the pickets and began to throw burning
materials into the fort, hoping to set all on fire; but in this they were disappointed--there
were ample supplies of water inside, and the fire was put out as fast as it fell.

The next day the firing was resumed, and day after day it continued, the Indians failing to
make any impression. They were too far from the fort--the first day's work had taught them
not to come near. At last they formed a wiser plan for doing mischief. Boonesborough, as you
will remember, was only sixty yards from the river, and they determined, by the advice of the
Frenchman, to let the water in and force the settlers out. In the night, they commenced the
work of digging a trench under ground, from the river. In the morning Boone looked out upon
the river, and perceiving that it was muddy, instantly guessed the cause. He immediately set
his men to the work of cutting a trench inside the fort, to cross the subterranean passage
of the Indians. The savages saw what was doing, for Boone's men were constantly shovelling
dirt over the pickets, but they persevered earnestly in their design. At last, however, they
were forced to stop, for the dirt caved in as fast as they dug; disappointed in this, they
now summoned the station once more to a treaty. But Boone laughed at them. "Do you suppose,"
said he, "we would pretend to treat with such treacherous wretches? Fire on, you only waste
your powder; the gates shall never be opened to you while there is a man of us living." Taking
his advice, they commenced their firing again; at last, on the ninth day of the siege, wearied
with their fruitless labor, they killed all the cattle they could find, raised a yell, and
departed. This was a terrible siege for the Indians; it is said that they lost two hundred
men; Boone counted thirty-seven chief warriors; while the whites, defended by their pickets,
had but two killed and four wounded. You may judge, too, how industrious the savages had been,
when I tell you that the whites who wanted lead, commenced gathering their balls after they
left, and succeeded in picking out of the logs, and from the ground, one hundred and twenty-five
pounds.

Boone having thus successfully defended his settlement, determined now to go in search of his
wife. Accustomed to travelling through the woods, he soon made his lonely journey to the Yadkin.
They were amazed as he entered the house of Mr. Bryan, his wife's father. The appearance of
one risen from the grave could not have surprised them more than that of Boone--the lost man
was among them, and great was their rejoicing. He now remained here with his family for some
time, and here we will leave him for a little while, to talk of what happened in Kentucky during
his absence.

The Kentuckians, roused by the Indian hostility and treachery, determined soon after he left
to inflict punishment upon them; against the Shawanese they were most provoked; it was among
them that most of the plots against the whites were formed, and the attack, therefore, was
to be made upon them. An army of one hundred and sixty men was soon collected, and the command
was given to a brave man named Colonel Bowman; they were to march directly against old Chilicothe,
the den of the savages.

In July of this year (1779), they started and reached the home of the Indians, without being
discovered. At daylight, the fight commenced and continued till ten o'clock. Bowman's men fought
bravely, but the Indians had every advantage. Knowing all the woods about their settlement,
while one party fought openly, the other, concealed behind the grass and trees, poured in a
deadly fire upon the whites. He was forced at last to retreat as rapidly as possible to a distance
of thirty miles; but the Indians pursued him here, doing more mischief than before. The savages
fought desperately. His men were falling around him, and but for Colonel Harrod, every man
of them might have been killed. Seeing the slaughter that was continually increasing, he mounted
a body of horsemen and made a charge upon the enemy; this broke their ranks, they were thrown
into confusion, and Bowman, with the remnant of his men, was enabled to retreat.

This attack only exasperated the Indians. In the course of the next summer (after doing much
mischief in a smaller way in the meantime), they gathered together to the number of six hundred,
and led on by Colonel Bird, a British officer, came down upon Riddle's and Martin's stations,
at the forks of Licking river. They had with them six cannons, and managed their matters so
secretly, that the first news of their approach was given to the settlers by the roar of their
guns. Of course it was of no use to resist; the pickets could not defend them from cannon-balls;
the settlers were forced to surrender. The savages rushed into the station and instantly killed
one man and two women with their tomahawks; all the others, many of whom were sick, were now
loaded with baggage and forced to march off with the Indians. It was certain death to any one,
old or young, male or female, who became, on the march, too weak and exhausted to travel farther;
they were instantly killed with the tomahawk.

Flushed with success, the Indians were now more troublesome than ever; it was impossible for
the whites to remain in the country if matters were to go on in this way. The inhabitants at
last threw themselves upon the protection of Colonel Clarke, who commanded a regiment of United
States soldiers at the falls of the Ohio. At the head of his men and a large number of volunteers,
he marched against Pecaway, one of the principal towns of the Shawanese; numbers of the savages
were killed, and the town was burnt to ashes. This was a triumph, but it was a triumph gained
by the loss of seventeen of his men.

In 1780, Boone again returned to Boonesborough with his family, bringing with him also a younger
brother. The elder brother (who had been in Kentucky before, as you will remember) now returned
also, and made his home at a spot not far from the place where the town of Shelbyville now
stands. The settlers were all delighted to see their old friend Daniel Boone once more among
them; they now felt that their leader was on the ground. Mrs. Boone too felt happy. Though
she was again on "the dark and bloody ground," her husband was with her.

In a little time his services were again especially needed. The want of salt, their old trouble
was upon them, and they looked to Boone to procure it. Ever ready, he started off with his
younger brother to the Blue Licks, the place of his former trouble; here he was destined to
meet with trouble again. They had made as much salt as they could carry, and were now returning
to Boonesborough with their packs, when they were suddenly overtaken by a party of savages;
the Indians immediately fired, and Boone's brother fell dead. Daniel Boone turned, levelled
his rifle at the foremost Indian, and brought him down; with a loud yell the party now rushed
toward him. He snatched his brother's rifle, levelled another, and then ran. The Indians gave
chase, but he managed to keep ahead, and even found time to reload his rifle. He knew that
his only chance for escape was to distance them, and break his trail. He passed the brow of
a hill, jumped into a brook below, waded in it for some distance, and then struck off at right
angles from his old course. Upon looking back he found, to his sorrow, that he had not succeeded--the
Indians were still on his track. Presently, he came to a grape-vine, and tried his old experiment
at breaking the trail. This was to no purpose, he found the savages still following him. After
travelling some distance farther, upon looking round he saw the cause of his trouble; the Indians
had a dog with them, and this dog, scenting his track, kept them for ever on his course. His
rifle was loaded--the dog was far ahead of the party--and Boone sent a rifle ball through him.
He now pushed on, doubling his course from time to time; the Indians lost track of him, and
he reached Boonesborough in safety.

In spite of the continued annoyance of the Indians, the white settlements had continued to
grow, and there were now so many white men in the country, that in the fall of this year (1780),
Kentucky was divided into the three counties of Jefferson, Fayette, and Lincoln. Our friend,
Daniel Boone, was appointed to command the militia in his county, and William Pope, and Benjamin
Logan, two brave men, were to have the command in theirs.

The winter of this year soon set in, and it proved a hard one. The settlers, however, bore
it cheerfully, for they were accustomed to hardships. Hard as it was, too, it proved mild to
the next that followed. The winter of 1781 was long remembered as "the cold winter" in Kentucky.
To make it harder, the Indians, after doing much mischief through the summer, had destroyed
most of the crops the preceding fall, and the settlers had small supplies of food. But the
forest was around them; Boone and Harrod were among them, and these two men found food enough.
Every day they went out in the winter's storms--every night they came in laden with deer and
buffaloes. The people learned to live on nothing but meat. Boone and Harrod drove away all
thoughts of starvation. They had, however, this one comfort: the cold weather kept the Indians
at home. They had no disturbances throughout the winter from them.

When spring opened, however, the savages showed themselves more furious, if possible, than
ever. Their plans of mischief were better laid; they seemed to have been feeding their revenge
fat. Open and secret war was all around the settlers. It would be idle for me to attempt to
give details of the doings of the savages. Ashton's, Hoy's, M'Afee's, Kincheloe's, and Boone's
station, near Shelbyville, were all attacked. Men were shot down in the open fields, or waylaid
in every pathway. The early annals of Kentucky are filled with stories of many a brave white
man at this time. There were Ashton, Holden, Lyn, Tipton, Chapman, White, Boone, Floyd, Wells,
the M'Afees, M'Gary, Randolph, Reynolds, and others, some of whom were killed, and all of whom
had their hard struggles. The history of that spring is only a story of burnings, captures,
and murders, on the part of the savages. It was a dark period for the white men; even Boone,
with all his vigor and fearlessness, thought it the darkest period he had known in that region.
The savages seemed bent upon a war of extermination.

Not satisfied with such mischief as they had already done, in the early part of the summer
the savages held a grand council at Old Chilicothe, to arrange their plans for further destruction.
There were chiefs there from the Cherokees, Wyandots, Tawas, Pottawattomies, and most of the
tribes bordering on the lakes. Two notorious white villains--whose names will never be forgotten
in Kentucky--were there also, to aid them with their counsels. These were Girty and M'Kee,
infamous men, who lived among the Indians, and lived only by murdering their own countrymen.
Their plan was soon settled. Bryant's station, near Lexington, was known to be a strong post,
and this was to be attacked. This station had within it forty cabins, and here it was thought
they might make the greatest slaughter. The warriors were to gather as rapidly as possible
for the enterprise.

In a little time, five hundred of them rallied at Girty's cabin, ready for their departure.
The white rascal then made a speech to them. He told them that "Kentucky was a beautiful hunting-ground,
filled with deer and buffaloes, for their comfort; the white men had come to drive them away;
the ground was now red with the blood of the red men that had been slain. But vengeance they
would have--now, before the whites were yet fastened in the country, they would strike a blow,
and drive them off for ever." Then he talked of the plan before them. He advised them to descend
the Miami in their canoes, cross the Ohio, ascend the Licking, and then they might paddle their
boats almost to the station. His speech was answered by a loud yell from the Indians, and they
all started off for their boats--Simon Girty, with his ruffled shirt and soldier coat, marching
at their head.

On the night of the 15th of August, they arrived before the station. In the morning, as the
gates were opened, the men were fired at by the savages, and this was the first news to the
whites of the approach of the enemy. It was fortunate that they had shown themselves thus early:
in two hours more, most of the men were to have started off to aid a distant feeble station.
As soon as the whites found they were besieged, they managed to send off the news to Lexington.

The Indians now, as usual, commenced their stratagems. The large body concealed themselves
in the grass near the pathway to the spring, while one hundred went round and attacked the
southeast angle of the station. Their hope was to draw the whites all to that quarter, while
they forced an entrance on the other side. But the white men understood this sort of cunning;
they had lived among the Indians too long to be caught by such tricks: instead of noticing
the attack, they went on quietly with the work of repairing and strengthening their palisades.

But water, one of the necessaries of life, was soon wanting. The whites, as they looked at
the tall grass and weeds near the spring, felt that Indians were lurking there. The women now
came forward and insisted upon it that they would go and bring water. "What if they do shoot
us?" they said; "it is better to lose a woman than a man at such a time." With that, they started
out, and, strange to tell, went back and forth, bringing supplies of water, without any difficulty.
Some of the young men now went out upon the same purpose. They had scarcely left the station,
when they were fired upon. Fortunately, the Indians were too far to do any mischief; the men
retreated rapidly within the palisades. The Indians, finding their stratagem fruitless, now
rushed forward, and commenced a tremendous attack. The whites received them with a steady fire,
and many of them fell. Enraged the more, they now discharged their burning arrows into the
roofs of the houses; some of the cabins were burnt, but an east wind was blowing at the time,
and that saved the station.

The enemy now fell back into the grass. They had found out, in some way, that help was expected
from Lexington, and they were preparing to cut it off. In a little time, all was still. Presently
sixteen horsemen, followed by thirty-one foot-soldiers, were seen coming; these were the men
from Lexington. Thinking only of the distress of their friends, they were hurrying along, when
the Indians opened a fire upon them. The horsemen galloped off in a cloud of dust, and reached
the station in safety. The soldiers on foot, in their effort to escape, plunged into the cornfields
on either side of the road, only to meet the enemy. A desperate fight commenced on both sides:
two soldiers were killed; the rest--four of them having dangerous wounds--reached the pickets.
The exasperated Indians, disappointed at the escape of this party, now wreaked their vengeance
by killing all the cattle they could find.

Finding all their efforts to enter the station idle, Simon Girty now came near enough to be
heard, mounted a stump, and holding in his hand a flag of truce, began to talk. "Surrender
promptly," cried Simon; "if you surrender promptly, no blood shall be shed; but if you will
not surrender, then know that our cannons and reinforcements are coming. We will batter down
your pickets as we did at Riddle's and Martin's; every man of you shall be slain; two are dead
already four are wounded; every man shall die." This language was so insolent, that some of
the settlers cried out, "Shoot the rascal!" No man, however, lifted his rifle; the flag of
truce protected him. "I am under a flag of truce," cried Simon; "do you know who it is that
speaks to you?"

Upon this, a young man named Reynolds leaped up and cried out, "Know you! know you! yes, we
know you well. Know Simon Girty! yes: he is the renegado, cowardly villain, who loves to murder
women and children, especially those of his own people. Know Simon Girty! yes: his father must
have been a panther, and his mother a wolf. I have a worthless dog that kills lambs: instead
of shooting him, I have named him Simon Girty. You expect reinforcements and cannon, do you?
Cowardly wretches like you, that make war upon women and children, would not dare to touch
them off, if you had them. We expect reinforcements, too, and in numbers to give a short account
of the murdering cowards that follow you. Even if you could batter down our pickets, I, for
one, hold your people in too much contempt to shoot rifles at them. I would not waste powder
and ball upon you. Should you even enter our fort, I am ready for you; I have roasted a number
of hickory switches, with which we mean to whip you and your naked cut-throats out of the country!"

Simon was now furious; cursing and swearing, he went back to his friends, amid the loud laughs
and jeers of the whites. In a little time, the firing was renewed; it was all to no purpose:
no white man suffered, and every Indian who came within gun-shot of the fort was sure to fall.
In the course of the night the whole party sneaked off, and their tracks indicated that they
had started for the Blue Licks. They left behind them thirty of their number slain.

CHAPTER VII.

Colonel Todd, of Lexington, instantly despatched news of this attack on Bryant's station, to
Colonel Boone, at Boonesborough, and Colonel Trigg, near Harrodsburgh. In a little time, one
hundred and seventy-six men were collected under these three officers, to march in pursuit.
Majors M'Gary and Harland now joined them, determined that they would have a part in the punishment
of the savages. It was known, too, that Colonel Logan was collecting a force, and a council
of officers was at once held, to determine whether they should march on, or wait for him. They
were all so eager to be off, that it was thought best to march immediately. The march was therefore
commenced forthwith.

Following on in the trail of the Indians, they had not gone far, when Boone saw enough to convince
him that the Indians would not only be willing, but glad to meet them. No effort had been made
to conceal their trail; the trees were even marked on their pathway, that the whites might
follow on; and they had tried to conceal their numbers, by treading in each other's footsteps.
He called the attention of his companions to this, but still they proceeded onward.

They saw no Indians until they came to the Licking river, not far from the Blue Licks. A party
was now seen on the other side of the stream, leisurely crossing a hill. A council was at once
held, and the officers all turned to Boone for advice. His advice was given frankly: he was
for waiting till Logan should arrive with his men. The Indian party, he felt assured, was at
the least from four to five hundred strong, and the unconcerned mode in which the Indians crossed
the hill showed that the main body was near, and their design was to draw them over the river.
Moreover, he was acquainted with all that region of the country. After they crossed the ford,
they would come upon deep ravines not far from the bank, where, no doubt, the Indians were
in ambush. If, however, they were determined not to wait for Logan, he advised that the country
might at least be reconnoitred before the attack was made. A part of the men, he thought, might
cross the stream, and move up cautiously on the other side, while the remainder would stand
where they were, ready to assist them at the first alarm. Todd and Trigg thought the advice
good, and were disposed to heed it; but, just at this moment, Major M'Gary, more hot-headed
than wise, spurred his horse into the water, gave the Kentucky war-whoop, and cried out, "All
those that are not cowards will follow me; I will show them where the Indians are." The men
were roused by this show of bravery, and they all crossed the ford.

The banks were steep on the other side, and many of them now dismounted, tied their horses,
and commenced marching on foot. M'Gary and Harland led the way. They had not proceeded far
when they came to one of the ravines. It was just as Boone had supposed; the savages were in
ambush. A deadly fire was now poured in upon the whites; the men staggered and fell in every
direction. The fire was returned, but to little purpose, for the enemy was completely concealed;
a retreat was all that was left. The whites hurried back toward the river; the Indians pursued;
and now commenced the slaughter with the tomahawk. The ford was narrow, and multitudes were
slaughtered there. Some were trying to get to their horses; others, more fortunate, were mounted
and flying; and some were plunging into the stream. In the midst of all this confusion, the
Indians were doing their work of destruction.

A man by the name of Netherland (who had been laughed at for his cowardice) had never dismounted
his horse, and was the first to reach the opposite shore. In a little time, some of his comrades
were around him. He now turned, and, looking back, saw the massacre that was going on. This
was more than he could bear. "Halt! fire on the Indians," cried he; "protect the men in the
river." With this, the men wheeled, fired, and rescued several poor fellows in the stream,
over whom the tomahawk was lifted.

Reynolds, the man who answered Girty's insolence, made a narrow escape. Finding, in the retreat,
one of the officers wounded, he gave him his horse, and was soon after taken by three Indians.
They were now over him, ready to despatch him, when two retreating white men rushed by. Two
of the savages started in pursuit; the third stooped for an instant to tie his moccasin, when
Reynolds sprang away from him and escaped.

This was a terrible battle for the white men. More than sixty of their number were slain, and
among them were most of their officers: Colonels Todd and Trigg, Majors Harland and Bulger,
Captains Gordon and M'Bride, and a son of Colonel Boone, were all among the dead.

Those who had regained the other shore, not having strength to rally, started homeward in great
sadness. On their way they met Colonel Logan. He had gone to Bryant's station with his five
hundred men, and was greatly disappointed when he found they had all started without him; he
pushed on, however, as rapidly as he could, hoping to overtake them before they made their
attack on the savages. The sad story of the defeat was soon told. All that remained to be done
now was to go back, and, if possible, bury the dead. Upon this sad business Logan continued
his march. Upon reaching the ground, the spectacle was awful: the dead bodies were strewn over
it just as they had fallen, the heat was intense, and birds of prey were feeding upon the carcasses.
The bodies were so mangled and changed, that no man could be distinguished; friends could not
recognise their nearest relatives. The dead were buried as rapidly as possible, and Logan left
the scene in great sorrow.

Nor was this all the carnage. The Indians, after the defeat, had scattered, and it was soon
found that on their way homeward they had swept through several settlements, carrying destruction
before them. Emboldened by their triumph, no man could tell what they might next attempt.

It was no time for the whites to be idle. They soon rallied in large numbers at Fort Washington,
the present site of the city of Cincinnati. General Clarke was at once made commander-in-chief,
and Colonel Logan was placed next under him in command. Clarke immediately started with a thousand
men to attack the Indian towns on the Miami. On his way he came upon the cabin of Simon Girty;
it was fortunate for Simon that a straggling Indian spied Clarke's men coming, in time to let
him escape. The news was now spread everywhere that an army of white men was coming from Kentucky.
The consequence was, that as Clarke approached the towns, he found them all deserted; the Indians
had fled to the woods. His march, however, was not made for nothing. The towns of Old and New
Chilicothe, Pecaway, and Wills' Town, were all reduced to ashes. One old Indian warrior was
surprised, and surrendered himself a prisoner. This man, to the great sorrow of General Clarke,
was afterward murdered by one of the soldiers.

Notwithstanding this punishment, Indian massacres still went on. Stories of savage butchery
were heard of everywhere; every station that they dared approach felt their fury, and the poor
settler who had built his cabin away from any station was sure to be visited.

General Clarke started out again, against the Indians on the Wabash. Unfortunately, his expedition
failed this time, for the want of provisions for his men. Another expedition of Colonel Logan,
against the Shawanese Indians, was more successful. He surprised one of their towns, killed
many of their warriors, and took many prisoners.

The war had now become so serious, that in the fall of 1785 the General Government invited
all the lake and Ohio tribes of Indians to meet at the mouth of the Great Miami. It was hoped
that in this way matters might be settled peaceably. But many of the tribes were insolent and
ill-natured; they refused to come in, giving as an excuse that the Kentuckians were for ever
molesting them. Emboldened by the very invitation, they continued the warfare more vigorously
than ever. They not only assaulted the settlements already made, but made an attempt to guard
the Ohio river, to prevent any further settlers from reaching the country in that direction.
Small parties placed themselves at different points on the river, from Pittsburgh to Louisville,
where they laid in ambush and fired upon every boat that passed. Sometimes they would make
false signals, decoy the boat ashore, and murder the whole crew. They even went so far at last
as to arm and man the boats they had taken, and cruise up and down the river.

I must tell you of a very bold defence made on the Ohio about this time by a Captain Hubbel,
who was bringing a party of emigrants from Vermont His party was in two boats, and consisted
in all of twenty. As Hubbel came down the river, he fell in with other boats, was told of the
Indian stratagems, and advised to be careful. Indeed, the inmates of some of the boats begged
that he would continue in their company, and thus they would be able to meet the Indians better
if they should be attacked; the stronger the party, the better, in such a condition. But Hubbel
refused to do this, and proceeded onward. He had not gone far, when a man on the shore began
to make signs of distress, and begged that the boat might come and take him off. Hubbel knew
well enough that this was an Indian disguised as a white man, and therefore took no notice
of him. In a little time, a party of savages pushed off in their boats, and attacked him fiercely.
The fight was hot on both sides. The savages tried to board Hubbel's boat, but the fire was
too hot for this. Hubbel received two severe wounds, and had the lock of his gun shot off by
an Indian; still he fought, touching off his broken gun from time to time with a firebrand.
The Indians found the struggle too hard, and were glad to paddle off. Presently they returned,
and attacked the other boat; this they seized almost without an effort, killed the captain
and a boy, and took all the women as prisoners to their own boats. Now they came once more
against Hubbel, and cunningly placed the women on the sides of their boats as a sort of bulwark.
But this did not stop Hubbel: he saw that his balls must strike the women; but it was better
that they should be killed now, rather than suffer a death of torture from the savages, and
the fire was at once opened upon them again. They were soon driven off once more. In the course
of the action, however, Hubbel's boat drifted near the shore, and five hundred savages renewed
the fire upon them. One of the emigrants, more imprudent than the rest, seeing a fine chance
for a shot, raised his head to take aim, and was instantly killed by a ball. The boat drifted
along, and at length reached deep water again. It was then found, that of the nine men on board,
two only had escaped unhurt; two were killed, and two mortally wounded. A remarkable lad on
board showed great courage. He now asked his friends to extract a ball that had lodged in the
skin of his forehead; and when this was done, he begged that they would take out a piece of
bone that had been fractured in his elbow by another ball. His poor frightened mother, seeing
his suffering, asked him why he had not complained before; to which the little fellow replied
that he had been too busy, and, besides that, the captain had told them all to make no noise.

It was idle to attempt now to settle matters peaceably. The general government had tried that
and the plan had failed. The war was now to be carried on to a close, come what might. An expedition
was accordingly planned, against all the tribes northwest of the Ohio. The Indians were to
be brought out, if possible to a general fight; or, if that could not be done, all their towns
and cabins on the Scioto and Wabash, were to be destroyed. General Harmar was appointed commander
of the main expedition, and Major Hamtranck was to aid him with a smaller party.

In the fall of 1791, Harmar started from Fort Washington with three hundred and twenty men.
In a little time he was joined by the Kentucky and Pennsylvania militia, so that his whole
force now amounted to fourteen hundred and fifty-three men. Colonel Hardin, who commanded the
Kentucky militia, was now sent ahead with six hundred men, principally militia, to reconnoitre
the country. Upon reaching the Indian settlements, the savages set fire to their houses and
fled; to overtake them, he pushed on with two hundred of his men. A party of Indians met and
attacked them. The cowardly militia ran off, leaving their brave companions to be slaughtered.
It was a brave struggle, but almost all were cut down; only seven managed to escape and join
the main army.

Harmar felt deeply mortified. He commenced forthwith his return to Fort Washington, but determined
that, on the way, he would wipe off this disgrace from his army. Upon coming near Chilicothe
he accordingly halted, and in the night despatched Colonel Hardin once more ahead, with orders
to find the enemy and draw them into an engagement. About daybreak, Hardin came upon them,
and the battle commenced. It was a desperate fight on both sides. Some of the militia acted
badly again, but the officers behaved nobly. The victory was claimed on both sides, but I think
the Indians had the best of it. Three gallant officers, Fontaine, Willys, and Frothingham,
were slain, together with fifty regulars and one hundred militia.

Harmar now moved on to Fort Washington. So much was said about his miserable campaign, that
he requested that he might be tried by a court-martial. Accordingly he was tried and honorably
acquitted.

A new army was soon raised, and the command was now given to Major-General Arthur St. Clair.
His plan was to destroy the Indian settlements between the Miamies, drive the savages from
that region, and establish a chain of military posts there, which should for ever keep them
out of the country. All having rallied at Fort Washington, he started off in the direction
of the Miami towns. It was a hard march, for he was forced to cut his roads as he passed along.
Upon arriving near the Indian country, he built forts Hamilton and Jefferson and garrisoned
them. This left him nearly two thousand men to proceed with. In a little time some of the worthless
militia deserted. This was a bad example to the rest, and St. Clair instantly sent Major Hamtranck,
with a regiment, in pursuit of them, while he continued his march. When he arrived within fifteen
miles of the Miami villages he halted and encamped; he was soon after joined by Major Hamtranck,
and St. Clair proposed now immediately to march against the enemy.

But the enemy had already got news of them, and had made ready. They were determined to have
the first blow themselves. At daybreak the next morning, the savages attacked the militia and
drove them back in confusion. These broke through the regulars, forcing their way into the
camp, the Indians pressing hard on their heels. The officers tried to restore order, but to
no purpose: the fight now became general. This, however, was only a small part of the Indian
force--there were four thousand of the party; they had nearly surrounded the camp, and sheltered
by the trees and grass as usual, were pouring in a deadly fire upon the whites. St. Clair and
all his officers behaved with great courage. Finding his men falling fast around him, he ordered
a charge to be made with the bayonet. The men swept through the long grass driving the Indians
before them. The charge had no sooner ceased than the Indians returned. Some forced their way
into the camp, killed the artillerists, wounded Colonel Butler, and seized the cannon. Wounded
as he was, Butler drove them back and recovered the guns. Fired with new ardor, they returned
again, once more entered the camp--once more had possession of the cannon. All was now confusion
among the whites--it was impossible to restore order--the Indians brought them down in masses--a
retreat was all that remained. But they were so hemmed in, that this seemed impossible. Colonel
Darke was ordered to charge the savages behind them, while Major Clarke with his battalion
was commanded to cover the rear of the army. These orders were instantly obeyed, and the disorderly
retreat commenced. The Indians pursued them four miles, keeping up a running fight. At last
their chief, a Mississago, who had been trained to war by the British, cried out to them to
stop as they had killed enough. They then returned to plunder the camp and divide the spoils,
while the routed troops continued their flight to Fort Jefferson, throwing away their arms
on the roadside that they might run faster. The Indians found in the camp seven pieces of cannon,
two hundred oxen, and several horses, and had a great rejoicing. Well might the Mississago
chief tell his people they had killed enough: thirty-eight commissioned officers were slain,
and five hundred and ninety-three non-commissioned officers and privates. Besides this, twenty-one
officers and two hundred and forty-two men were wounded, some of whom soon died of their wounds.

This was a most disastrous battle for the whites, the most disastrous they had yet known. The
triumphant Indians were so delighted that they could not leave the field, but kept up their
revels from day to day. Their revels, however, were at length broken up sorrowfully for them.
General Scott, hearing of the disaster, pushed on for the field with one thousand mounted volunteers
from Kentucky. The Indians were dancing and singing, and riding the horses and oxen in high
glee. Scott instantly attacked them; two hundred were killed, their plunder retaken, and the
whole body of savages driven from the ground.

When Congress met soon after this, of course this wretched Indian war was much talked of. It
was proposed at once to raise three additional regiments. Upon this a hot debate sprang up,
the proposal was opposed warmly; the opponents said that it would be necessary to lay a heavy
tax upon the people to raise them, that the war had been badly managed, and should have been
trusted to the militia in the west under their own officers, and, moreover, that no success
could be expected so long as the British continued to hold posts in our own limits, and furnish
the Indians with arms, ammunition, and advice.

On the other hand, it was declared that the war was a just and necessary one. It was shown
that in seven years (between 1783 and 1790), fifteen hundred people in Kentucky had been murdered
or taken captives by the savages; while in Pennsylvania and Virginia matters had been well
nigh as bad; that everything had been done to settle matters peaceably but all to no purpose.
In 1790, when a treaty was proposed to the Indians of the Miami, they asked for thirty days
to deliberate--the request was granted--during those thirty days one hundred and twenty persons
had been killed or captured, and at the end of the time the savages refused to give any answer
to the proposal. At last the vote was taken--the resolution passed--the war was to be carried
on--the regiments were to be raised.

General St. Clair now resigned the command of the army, and Major General Anthony Wayne was
appointed to succeed him. This appointment gave great joy to the western people; the man was
so well known among them for his daring and bravery, that he commonly went by the name of "Mad
Anthony."

After much delay, the regiments were at last gathered together. Some still opposed this war
and in order to prove to them that the government was willing to settle matters peaceably,
if possible, two officers--Colonel Hardin and Major Truman, were now sent off to the Indians
with proposals of peace. They were both seized and murdered by the savages.

Wayne now started out upon his expedition. In a little time he passed Fort Jefferson, took
possession of St. Clair's fatal field, and erected a fort there which he called Fort Recovery.
He now learned the truth of the stories about the British. A number of British soldiers had
come down from Detroit, and fortified themselves on the Miami of the lakes. It was rumored
too, that in some of the Indian fights and massacres, the English were seen among them, fighting
and urging them on.

The General continued his march, and early in August reached the confluence of the Miami of
the Lakes and the Au Glaize. This was one of the finest countries of the Indians, it was about
thirty miles from the British post, and he discovered here, that two thousand warriors were
near that post ready to meet him. Wayne was glad to hear this; his army was quite as strong,
and he longed to meet the savages. As he drew near, however, he determined once more to have
peace if possible, without shedding blood. A message was sent to the Indians, urging them not
to follow the advice of bad men, to lay down their arms, to learn to live peaceably, and their
lives and their homes should be protected by the government. An insolent answer, was all that
was received in reply.

Wayne's army now marched on in columns--a select battalion, under Major Price, moving in front
to reconnoitre. After marching about five miles, Price was driven back by the fire of the Indians.
As usual, the cunning enemy was concealed; they had hid themselves in a thick wood a little
in advance of the British post, and here Price had received their fire.

Wayne had now found out precisely where they were, and gave his orders accordingly. The cavalry
under Captain Campbell were commanded to enter the wood in the rear of the Indians, between
them and the river, and charge their left flank. General Scott, with eleven hundred mounted
Kentucky volunteers, was to make a circuit in the opposite direction, and attack the right.
The infantry were to advance with trailed arms, and rouse the enemy from their hiding-places.
All being ready, the infantry commenced their march. The Indians were at once routed at the
point of the bayonet. The infantry had done the whole; Campbell and Scott had hardly the chance
of doing any of the fighting. In the course of an hour, they had driven the savages back two
miles; in fact, within gun-shot of the British post.

Wayne had now the possession of the whole ground, and here he remained three days, burning
their houses and cornfields above and below the fort. One Englishman suffered, too, in this
work of destruction. Colonel M'Kee was known as a British trader, forever instigating the Indians
against the Americans, and Wayne did not scruple to burn all his houses and stores likewise.
Major Campbell, who commanded the British fort, remonstrated at this, but Wayne gave him a
bold and determined answer in reply, and he had no more to say. A few words from him would
only have caused Wayne to drive him from the country.

The army now returned to Au Glaize, destroying all the houses, villages, and crops by the way.
It was one complete work of destruction; within fifty miles of the river everything was destroyed.
In this campaign, Wayne had lost one hundred and seven men, and among them were two brave officers--Captain
Campbell and Lieutenant Towles, but still he had gained a glorious victory. In his track, too,
he had not forgotten to build forts, to guard against the savages in future.

The story of the victory soon spread, and struck terror to the hearts of the Indians north
and south. They were restless and dissatisfied, but war was sure destruction to them; they
felt that it was idle to attempt it further, and were ready to be quiet. In less than a year
from this time, Wayne concluded a treaty, in behalf of the United States with all the Indian
tribes northwest of the Ohio. The settlers at last had peace--a blessing which they had long
desired.

CHAPTER VIII.

With the return of peace, the settlers were very happy. They could now go out, fell the forests,
and cultivate their fields in safety. There was no longer any wily savage to lay in ambush,
and keep them in perpetual anxiety. No man among them was happier than Boone. He had been harassed
by constant struggles ever since he came to Kentucky, and these struggles with the savages
had made him a warrior rather than a hunter; but he could now return to his darling passion.
While others cultivated the ground, he roamed through the wilderness with his rifle; he was
now a hunter indeed, spending weeks and months uninterruptedly in the forests By day he moved
where he pleased, and at night made his camp fearlessly wherever the shades of night overtook
him. His life was now happier than ever.

Ere long, however, a cloud came over this happiness. Men began again to crowd too closely upon
him. In spite of all the early struggles with the savages in Kentucky, emigrants had continued
to flow into that country. As early as 1783, Kentucky had been laid off into three counties,
and was that year formed into one district, and called the District of Kentucky. In 1785, a
convention was called at Danville, and a memorial was addressed to the legislature of Virginia,
proposing that Kentucky should be erected into an independent State. In 1786, the legislature
of Virginia took the necessary steps for making the new State, if Congress would admit it into
the Union. In 1792, Kentucky was admitted into the Union as one of the United States of America.
And now that peace had come to aid the settlers, emigration flowed in more rapidly. Court-houses,
jails, judges, lawyers, sheriffs, and constables, began necessarily to be seen. Kentucky was
becoming every day a more settled and civilized region, and Boone's heart grew sick. He had
sought the wilderness, and men were fast taking it away from him. He began to think of moving.

Another sorrow now came over him, and soon fixed in him the determination to seek a new home.
Men began to dispute with him the title to his land. The State of Kentucky had not been surveyed
by the government, and laid off into sections and townships, as the lands north of the Ohio
river have since been. The government of Virginia had issued certificates, entitling the holder
to locate where he pleased the number of acres called for. To actual settlers, who should build
a cabin, raise a crop, &c., pre-emption rights to such lands as they might occupy were also
granted. Entries of these certificates were made in a way so loose, that different men frequently
located the same lands; one title would often lap over upon another; and almost all the titles
conferred in this way became known as "the lapping, or shingle titles." Continued lawsuits
sprang out of this state of things; no man knew what belonged to him. Boone had made these
loose entries of his lands: his titles, of course, were disputed. It was curious to see the
old man in a court of law, which he thoroughly despised, fighting for his rights. He was greatly
provoked; he had explored and redeemed the wilderness, as he said, borne every hardship with
his wife and children, only to be cheated at last. But the law decided against him; he lost
his lands, and would now no longer remain in that region.

Hearing that buffaloes and deer were still plenty about the Great Kanhawa river, he started
thither with his wife and children, and settled near Point Pleasant. Here he remained several
years. He was disappointed in not finding game as he expected, and was more of a farmer here
than ever before; he turned his attention earnestly to agriculture, and was very successful
in raising good crops. Still he was dissatisfied; he longed for the wilderness. Hunting and
trapping were the constant thoughts of his life.

While living here, he met accidentally with a party of men who had been out upon the upper
waters of the Missouri. These men talked of the beauty of that region: they had stories to
tell of grizzly bears, buffaloes, deer, beavers, and otters--in fact, the region was in their
eyes "the paradise for a hunter." Fired by these stories, Boone resolved to go there. Accordingly,
he gathered together all that he possessed, and with his wife and family started for Missouri,
driving his herds and cattle before him. It was strange to see an old man thus vigorous in
seeking a new home. He was an object of surprise to every one. When he reached Cincinnati,
on his route, some one, marking his age, and surprised at his adventure, asked him how, at
his time of life, he could leave all the comforts of home, for the wilderness. His answer shows
his whole character: "Too much crowded, too much crowded," said he; "I want more elbow-room."
Travelling on, he at length reached Missouri, and, proceeding about fifty miles above St. Louis,
settled in what is now St. Charles county.

Here everything pleased Boone. The country, as you know, was then in the possession of the
French and Spanish, and the old laws by which their territories were governed were still in
force there. They had no constitution, no king, no legislature, no judges, lawyers, or sheriffs.
An officer called the commandant, and the priests, exercised all the authority that was needed.
The horses, cattle, flocks, and herds of these people all grazed together upon the same commons;
in fact, they were living here almost in primitive simplicity. Boone's character for honesty
and courage soon became known among them, and he was appointed by the Spanish commandant the
commandant over the district of St. Charles.

Boone now had the satisfaction of settling all his children comfortably around him, and in
the unbroken wilderness his hunting and trapping was unmolested. In his office of commandant
he gave great satisfaction to every one, and continued to occupy it until Missouri was purchased
by our government from the French. When that purchase was made, American enterprise soon came
upon him again--he was once more crowded by his fellow-men. His old office of commandant was
soon merged in the new order of things--his hunting-grounds were invaded by others. Nothing
remained for him now, but to submit to his fate; he was too old to move again, nor indeed did
he know where to go. He continued his old habits, as well he might. He would start out with
his rifle, now marked with a paper sight to guide his dim eye, and be absent from his home
for weeks. Nearly eighty years had passed over him, yet he would lie in wait near the salt-licks,
and bring down his buffalo or his deer, and as bravely and cheerily as in his younger days,
would he cut down bee-trees. As the light-hearted Frenchmen swept up the river in their fleets
of periogues on their hunting excursions, Boone would cheer them as they passed, and sigh for
his younger days that he might join their parties. He was a complete Nimrod, now almost worn out.

It was while he was living here, I think, that he was met by that very interesting man, Mr.
Audubon, the natural historian of our continent. He was struck with the man, and has given
the story of his interview with Boone. It is so illustrative of the character of the hunter,
that I give it to you in Mr. Audubon's words.

Here, too, it was that he resided, when Mr. Astor attempted to carry out his magnificent design,
of settling Astoria on the western coast of our continent, and belting the earth with his commerce.
When you are older, you can read the beautiful history of that attempt, written by our distinguished
countryman Mr. Irving. As the party, bound for the far west, moved up the Missouri, Boone stood
upon the banks of the stream, looking anxiously after them. It was just the adventure to please
him. There the old man stood, leaning upon his rifle, his dim eye lighted up as he gazed upon
them, and his heart heavy with sorrow, because he was too old to press with them, beyond the
mountains.[5]

   [5] See Irving's Astoria.

Other sorrows than those of age, now crept upon him. His wife, who had been to him all that
was good, was now taken from him, and the old man was left widowed. With a sad heart he now
went to the home of his son, Major Nathan Boone.

The last war with England now broke out, too, and penetrated even the wilds of Missouri. It
was the worst of all warfare--the savages were let loose upon them. Boone was too old to act
the part of a soldier, but he sent off many substitutes in his sons.

When peace returned, the spirit of the old man rallied; his ruling passion was still with him.
The woods were again his home, his rifle his companion; and thus he lived on, through a vigorous
old age, with a passion as strong as ever, a hunter almost to the very day of his death. For
when, in 1818, death came upon him, he had but little notice of its approach. With no disease
but old age, which had seemed comparatively vigorous almost to the day of his departure, he
died in his eighty-fourth year. His mind was unclouded and he passed from this world calmly
and quietly.

I have but one thing more to say. You remember Daniel Boone's schoolboy days, of which I have
spoken. He left school a perfectly ignorant lad. Some say that he afterward learned to write,
and produce as an evidence, a little narrative of his wanderings in Kentucky, supposed to be
written by himself. I believe, however, that to the day of his death, he could not write his
name. The narrative spoken of, was, I think, dictated in some degree by him, and written by
another. At all events, the story is interesting and curious, and, as such, I have placed it
for your benefit, as an appendix to this volume.

    THE END.

