 "Ho!" he exclaimed, "to think that he has remembered
me all this time! And he has not forgotten that it was just midsummer when he was here!" Presently
he went out, and soon returned with a basket in one hand and some plates in the other, which
he placed before us and heaped with fine ripe cherries. Her singular story excited a considerable
share of public attention; and she was engaged to sing, and perform the military exercises of
various places at public entertainment: soon subsequently us married
one Eyles, a carpenter at Newbury.

We walked in the garden, which was laid out with some taste along the brow of the hill. A superb
drooping birch, eighty feet in height, was the crowning glory of the place. The birch is the
characteristic tree of Sweden, as the fir is of Norway, the beech of Denmark, the oak of England
and Germany, the chestnut of Italy, and the palm of Esrypt. Of northern trees, there is none
more graceful in outline, but in the cold, silvery hue of its foliage, summer can never find
her best expression. The parson had a neat little bowling-alley, in a grove of pine, on a projecting
spur of the hill. He did not disdain secular recreations; his religion was cheerful and jubilant;
he had found something else in the Bible than the Lamentations of Jeremiah. There are so many
Christians who--to judge from the settled expression of their faces--suffer under their belief,
that it is a comfort to find those who see nothing heretical in the fullest and freest enjoyment
of life. There was an apple-tree in the garden which was just bursting into blossoms for the
second time. I called the Domprost's attention to it, remarking, in a line from Frithiof's
Saga:--"Hösten bjuder sin thron til varen" (Autumn offers his throne to the spring). "What!"
he exclaimed in joyful surprise, "do you know Tegner?" and immediately continued the quotation.

There was no resisting the hospitable persuasions of the family; we were obliged to take supper
and spend the evening with them. The daughter and the two magisters sang for us all the characteristic
songs of Wermeland and Dalecarlia which they could remember, and I was more than ever charmed
with the wild, simple, original character of the native melodies of Sweden. They are mostly
in the minor key, and some of them might almost be called monotonous; yet it is monotony, or
rather simplicity, in the notation, which sticks to the memory. The longings, the regrets,
the fidelity, and the tenderness of the people, find an echo in these airs, which have all
the character of improvisations, and rekindle in the heart of the hearer the passions they
were intended to relieve.

We at last took leave of the good old man and his friendly household. The night was dark and
rainy, and the magisters accompanied us to the inn. In the morning it was raining dismally,--a
slow, cold, driving rain, which is the climax of bad weather. We determined, however, to push
onward as far as Fahlun, the capital of Dalecarlia, about four Swedish miles distant. Our road
was down the valley of the Dal Elv, which we crossed twice on floating bridges, through a very
rich, beautiful, and thickly settled country. The hills were here higher and bolder than in
Westerdal, dark with forests of fir and pine, and swept south-eastward in long ranges, leaving
a broad, open valley for the river to wander in. This valley, from three to five miles in width,
was almost entirely covered with enclosed fields, owing to which the road was barred with gates,
and our progress was much delayed thereby. The houses were neat and substantial, many of them
with gardens and orchards attached, while the unusual number of the barns and granaries gave
evidence of a more prosperous state of agriculture than we had seen since leaving the neighborhood
of Carlstad.