Such is the singular story which filled everybody with astonishment, but which nobody could
understand.  It is true that some people persuaded themselves, and tried to persuade others,
that the whole affair was a clever trick, of which the simple farrier had been the dupe.  They
said that a certain Madame Arnoul, who passed for a witch, and who, having known Madame de
Maintenon when she was Madame Scarron, still kept up a secret intimacy with her, had caused
the three visions to appear to the farrier, in order to oblige the King to declare Madame de
Maintenon queen.  But the truth of the matter was never known.

The King bestowed at this time some more distinctions on his illegitimate children.  M. du
Maine, as grand-master of the artillery, had to be received at the Chambre des Comptes; and
his place ought to have been, according to custom, immediately above that of the senior member.
But the King wished him to be put between the first and second presidents; and this was done.
The King accorded also to the Princesse de Conti that her two ladies of honour should be allowed
to sit at the Duchesse de Bourgogne's table.  It was a privilege that no lady of honour to
a Princess of the blood had ever been allowed.  But the King gave these distinctions to the
ladies of his illegitimate children, and refused it to those of the Princesses of the blood.

In thus according honours, the King seemed to merit some new ones himself.  But nothing fresh
could be thought of.  What had been done therefore at his statue in the Place des Victoires,
was done over again in the Place Vendome on the 13th August, after midday.  Another statue
which had been erected there was uncovered.  The Duc de Gesvres, Governor of Paris, was in
attendance on horseback, at the head of the city troops, and made turns, and reverences, and
other ceremonies, imitated from those in use at the consecration of the Roman Emperors.  There
were, it is true, no incense and no victims: something more in harmony with the title of Christian
King was necessary.  In the evening, there was upon the river a fine illumination, which Monsieur
and Madame went to see.

A difficulty arose soon after this with Denmark.  The Prince Royal had become King, and announced
the circumstance to our King, but would not receive the reply sent him because he was not styled
in it "Majesty." We had never accorded to the Kings of Denmark this title, and they had always
been contented with that of "Serenity."  The King in his turn would not wear mourning for the
King of Denmark, just dead, although he always did so for any crowned head, whether related
to him or not.  This state of things lasted some months; until, in the end, the new King of
Denmark gave way, received the reply as it had been first sent, and our King wore mourning
as if the time for it had not long since passed.

Boucherat, chancellor and keeper of the seals, died on the 2nd of September.  Harlay, as I
have previously said, had been promised this appointment when it became vacant.  But the part
he had taken in our case with M. de Luxembourg had made him so lose ground, that the appointment
was not given to him.  M. de la Rochefoucauld, above all, had undermined him in the favour
of the King; and none of us had lost an opportunity of assisting in this work.  Our joy, therefore,
was extreme when we saw all Harlay's hopes frustrated, and we did not fail to let it burst
forth. The vexation that Harlay conceived was so great, that he became absolutely intractable,
and often cried out with a bitterness he could not contain, that he should be left to die in
the dust of the palace. His weakness was such, that he could not prevent himself six weeks
after from complaining to the King at Fontainebleau, where he was playing the valet with his
accustomed suppleness and deceit.  The King put him off with fine speeches, and by appointing
him to take part in a commission then sitting for the purpose of bringing about a reduction
in the price of corn in Paris and the suburbs, where it had become very dear.  Harlay made
a semblance of being contented, but remained not the less annoyed. His health and his head
were at last so much attacked that he was forced to quit his post: he then fell into contempt
after having excited so much hatred.  The chancellorship was given to Pontchartrain, and the
office of comptroller-general, which became vacant at the same time, was given to Chamillart;
a very honest man, who owed his first advancement to his skill at billiards, of which game
the King was formerly very fond. It was while Chamillart was accustomed to play billiards with
the King, at least three times a week, that an incident happened which ought not to be forgotten.
Chamillart was Counsellor of the Parliament at that time. He had just reported on a case that
had been submitted to him. The losing party came to him, and complained that he had omitted
to bring forward a document that had been given into his hands, and that would assuredly have
turned the verdict.  Chamillart searched for the document, found it, and saw that the complainer
was right.  He said so, and added, --"I do not know how the document escaped me, but it decides
in your favour.  You claimed twenty thousand francs, and it is my fault you did not get them.
Come to-morrow, and I will pay you."  Chamillart, although then by no means rich, scraped together
all the money he had, borrowing the rest, and paid the man as he had promised, only demanding
that the matter should be kept a secret.  But after this, feeling that billiards three times
a week interfered with his legal duties, he surrendered part of them, and thus left himself
more free for other charges he was obliged to attend to.

The Comtesse de Fiesque died very aged, while the Court was at Fontainebleau this year.  She
had passed her life with the most frivolous of the great world.  Two incidents amongst a thousand
will characterise her.  She was very straitened in means, because she had frittered away all
her substance, or allowed herself to be pillaged by her business people.  When those beautiful
mirrors were first introduced she obtained one, although they were then very dear and very
rare.  "Ah, Countess!" said her friends, "where did you find that?"

"Oh!" replied she, "I had a miserable piece of land, which only yielded me corn; I have sold
it, and I have this mirror instead.  Is not this excellent?  Who would hesitate between corn
and this beautiful mirror?"

On another occasion she harangued with her son, who was as poor as a rat, for the purpose of
persuading him to make a good match and thus enrich himself.  Her son, who had no desire to
marry, allowed her to talk on, and pretended to listen to her reasons: She was delighted--entered
into a description of the wife she destined for him, painting her as young, rich, an only child,
beautiful, well-educated, and with parents who would be delighted to agree to the marriage.
When she had finished, he pressed her for the name of this charming and desirable person. 
The Countess said she was the daughter of Jacquier, a man well known to everybody, and who
had been a contractor of provisions to the armies of M. de Turenne.  Upon this, her son burst
out into a hearty laugh, and she in anger demanded why he did so and what he found so ridiculous
in the match.

The truth was, Jacquier had no children, as the Countess soon remembered. At which she said
it was a great pity, since no marriage would have better suited all parties.  She was full
of such oddities, which she persisted in for some time with anger, but at which she was the
first to laugh.  People said of her that she had never been more than eighteen years old. 
The memoirs of Mademoiselle paint her well.  She lived with Mademoiselle, and passed all her
life in quarrels about trifles.

It was immediately after leaving Fontainebleau that the marriage between the Duc and Duchesse
de Bourgogne was consummated.  It was upon this occasion that the King named four gentlemen
to wait upon the Duke,-- four who in truth could not have been more badly chosen.  One of them,
Gamaches, was a gossip; who never knew what he was doing or saying-- who knew nothing of the
world, or the Court, or of war, although he had always been in the army.  D'O was another;
but of him I have spoken. Cheverny was the third, and Saumery the fourth.  Saumery had been
raised out of obscurity by M. de Beauvilliers.  Never was man so intriguing, so truckling,
so mean, so boastful, so ambitious, so intent upon fortune, and all this without disguise,
without veil, without shame!  Saumery had been wounded, and no man ever made so much of such
a mishap.  I used to say of him that he limped audaciously, and it was true.  He would speak
of personages the most distinguished, whose ante-chambers even he had scarcely seen, as though
he spoke of his equals or of his particular friends.  He related what he had heard, and was
not ashamed to say before people who at least had common sense, "Poor Mons. Turenne said to
me," M. de Turenne never having probably heard of his existence.  With Monsieur in full he
honoured nobody.  It was Mons. de Beauvilliers, Mons. de Chevreuse, and so on; except with
those whose names he clipped off short, as he frequently would even with Princes of the blood.
I have heard him say many times, "the Princesse de Conti," in speaking of the daughter of the
King; and "the Prince de Conti," in speaking of Monsieur her brother-in-law!  As for the chief
nobles of the Court, it was rare for him to give them the Monsieur or the Mons.  It was Marechal
d'Humieres, and so on with the others.  Fatuity and insolence were united in him, and by dint
of mounting a hundred staircases a day, and bowing and scraping everywhere, he had gained the
ear of I know not how many people.  His wife was a tall creature, as impertinent as he, who
wore the breeches, and before whom he dared not breathe.  Her effrontery blushed at nothing,
and after many gallantries she had linked herself on to M. de Duras, whom she governed, and
of whom she was publicly and absolutely the mistress, living at his expense.  Children, friends,
servants, all were at her mercy; even Madame de Duras herself when she came, which was but
seldom, from the country.

Such were the people whom the King placed near M. le Duc de Bourgogne.

The Duc de Gesvres, a malicious old man, a cruel husband and unnatural father, sadly annoyed
Marechal de Villeroy towards the end of this year, having previously treated me very scurvily
for some advice I gave him respecting the ceremonies to be observed at the reception by the
King of M. de Lorraine as Duc de Bar.  M. de Gesvres and M. de Villeroy had both had fathers
who made large fortunes and who became secretaries of state. One morning M. de Gesvres was
waiting for the King, with a number of other courtiers, when M. de Villeroy arrived, with all
that noise and those airs he had long assumed, and which his favour and his appointments rendered
more superb.  I know not whether this annoyed De Gesvres, more than usual, but as soon as the
other had placed himself, he said, "Monsieur le Marechal, it must be admitted that you and
I are very lucky."  The Marechal, surprised at a remark which seemed to be suggested by nothing,
assented with a modest air, and, shaking his head and his wig, began to talk to some one else.
But M. de Gesvres had not commenced without a purpose.  He went on, addressed M. de Villeroy
point-blank, admiring their mutual good fortune, but when he came to speak of the father of
each, "Let us go no further," said he, "for what did our fathers spring from?  From tradesmen;
even tradesmen they were themselves.  Yours was the son of a dealer in fresh fish at the markets,
and mine of a pedlar, or, perhaps, worse.  Gentlemen," said he, addressing the company, "have
we not reason to think our fortune prodigious--the Marechal and I?"  The Marechal would have
liked to strangle M. de Gesvres, or to see him dead--but what can be done with a man who, in
order to say something cutting to you, says it to himself first?  Everybody was silent, and
all eyes were lowered.  Many, however, were not sorry to see M. de Villeroy so pleasantly humiliated.
The King came and put an end to the scene, which was the talk of the Court for several days.

Omissions must be repaired as soon as they are perceived.  Other matters have carried me away.
At the commencement of April, Ticquet, Counsellor at the Parliament, was assassinated in his
own house; and if he did not die, it was not the fault of his porter, or of the soldier who
had attempted to kill him, and who left him for dead, disturbed by a noise they heard.  This
councillor, who was a very poor man, had complained to the King, the preceding year, of the
conduct of his wife with Montgeorges, captain in the Guards, and much esteemed.  The King prohibited
Montgeorges from seeing the wife of the councillor again.

Such having been the case, when the crime was attempted, suspicion fell upon Montgeorges and
the wife of Ticquet, a beautiful, gallant, and bold woman, who took a very high tone in the
matter.  She was advised to fly, and one of my friends offered to assist her to do so, maintaining
that in all such cases it is safer to be far off than close at hand.  The woman would listen
to no such advice, and in a few days she was no longer able. The porter and the soldier were
arrested and tortured, and Madame Ticquet, who was foolish enough to allow herself to be arrested,
also underwent the same examination, and avowed all.  She was condemned to lose her head, and
her accomplice to be broken on the wheel.  Montgeorges managed so well, that he was not legally
criminated.  When Ticquet heard the sentence, he came with all his family to the King, and
sued for mercy.  But the King would not listen to him, and the execution took place on Wednesday,
the 17th of June, after mid-day, at the Greve.  All the windows of the Hotel de Ville, and
of the houses in the Place de Greve, in the streets that lead to it from the Conciergerie of
the palace where Madame Ticquet was confined, were filled with spectators, men and women, many
of title and distinction.  There were even friends of both sexes of this unhappy woman, who
felt no shame or horror in going there. In the streets the crowd was so great that it could
not be passed through.  In general, pity was felt for the culprit; people hoped she would be
pardoned, and it was because they hoped so, that they went to see her die.  But such is the
world; so unreasoning, and so little in accord with itself.

CHAPTER XVI

The year 1700 commenced by a reform.  The King declared that he would no longer bear the expense
of the changes that the courtiers introduced into their apartments.  It had cost him more than
sixty thousand francs since the Court left Fontainebleau.  It is believed that Madame de Mailly
was the cause of this determination of the King; for during the last two or three years she
had made changes in her apartments every year.

