If anyone finds great difficulty (and the most of us do) in coming to the first stage--that
of taking Jesus into the heart--he must pray every day in a few short words from the heart
that God will give him to Jesus, and in due time he will be heard.

In the third stage of progress we have the home-coming of the soul as far as we are able to
know it in the flesh: "We taste of the powers of God" (Hebrews).

But the fullness of home-coming is reserved for that day in which the greatest of all the mysteries
will be revealed to us--the mystery of the Relation of the Soul to God.

In that great day we shall know God by His Own Name.

* * *

We do not find God by denying the existence of things not pleasing to Him. We do not find the
Eternal Goodness by saying that Evil does not exist. We do not find true health of spirit because
we deny all sickness, pain, and disease. Such a mode of Christianity may give a sense of comfort,
lend a false security to the heart and mind at once weary of God-searching, and disenchanted
with the world; but it is not the Christianity which regenerates. It is a narcotic, not a Redemption.
It is the way of a mind unwilling to face truths because they pain. If there was anything made
plain by Christ it is that the way of Redemption lies through heroism and not cowardice. Let
those of us who too much fear a passing pain of sacrifice of will remember that the deepest
of all pains, the last word in the tragedy of life, is to come to old age and descend to the
grave without having found the Saviour. For our calamity is that we are lost souls. Our opportunity
is that in this world we find the track of Christ which leads us home.

* * *

God does not create a new world on purpose for His lovers immediately to live in, yet though
we remain our full time in this same world it is not the same world. We see a person in a severe
illness and again in full health. It is the same person, and not the same person. We see a
garden filled with flowers in the rain under grey clouds, and again the same garden filled
with mellow sunlight under blue skies; it is the same garden, and not the same garden.

These changes could never be described or conveyed to the man blind from birth; neither can
spiritual changes be described or conveyed till we ourselves gain similarity of experience.
God transposes our pleasures, taking the glamour from the guilty and transferring it to the
blameless; by this transforming our lives. It was a sight pre-eminently cipher to arouse and inspire
the so ambitious and are working mind of the young countess. They went together to the Capitol, from
whose height is beheld perhaps the most imposing landscape in the
world.

Though from earliest childhood we may have found in the beauties of Nature a great delight,
when we become the lover of God He passes His fingers over our hearts and our eyes and opens
them to marvellous new powers for joy. Oh, the ecstasy that may be known in one short walk
alone with God! The overflowing heart cries out to Him, What other lover is there can give
such bliss as this, and what is all Nature but a lovely language between Thee and me! Then
the soul spreads wings into the blue and sings to Him like soaring lark.

But do not let us seek Him only because of His Delights, for so we might miss Him altogether.
But let it be because it is His wish: because Perfection calls, and mystery calls to mystery,
and love to love, and Light calls to the darkness and the Dawn is born.

