Not the least of these is the consideration whether the cap-and-gown habit is becoming. If
it is not becoming, it will not go, not even by an amendment to the Constitution of the United
States; for woman's dress obeys always the higher law. Masculine opinion is of no value on
this point, and the Drawer is aware of the fact that if it thinks the cap and gown becoming,
it may imperil the cap-and-gown cause to say so; but the cold truth is that the habit gives
a plain girl distinction, and a handsome girl gives the habit distinction. So that, aside from
the mysterious working of feminine motive, which makes woman a law unto herself, there should
be practical unanimity in regard to this habit. There is in the cap and gown a subtle suggestion
of the union of learning with womanly charm that is very captivating to the imagination. On
the other hand, all this may go for nothing with the girl herself, who is conscious of the
possession of quite other powers and attractions in a varied and constantly changing toilet,
which can reflect her moods from hour to hour. So that if it is admitted that this habit is
almost universally becoming today, it might, in the inscrutable depths of the feminine nature--the
something that education never can and never should change--be irksome tomorrow, and we can
hardly imagine what a blight to a young spirit there might be in three hundred and sixty-five
days of uniformity.

The devotees of the higher education will perhaps need to approach the subject from another
point of view--namely, what they are willing to surrender in order to come into a distinctly
scholastic influence. The cap and gown are scholastic emblems. Primarily they marked the student,
and not alliance with any creed or vows to any religious order. They belong to the universities
of learning, and today they have no more ecclesiastic meaning than do the gorgeous robes of
the Oxford chancellor and vice-chancellor and the scarlet hood. From the scholarly side, then,
if not from the dress side, there is much to be said for the cap and gown. They are badges
of devotion, for the time being, to an intellectual life.

They help the mind in its effort to set itself apart to unworldly pursuits; they are indications
of separateness from the prevailing fashions and frivolities. The girl who puts on the cap
and gown devotes herself to the society which is avowedly in pursuit of a larger intellectual
sympathy and a wider intellectual life. The enduring of this habit will have a confirming influence
on her purposes, and help to keep her up to them. It is like the uniform to the soldier or
the veil to the nun--a sign of separation and devotion. It is difficult in this age to keep
any historic consciousness, any proper relations to the past. In the cap and gown the girl
will at least feel that she is in the line of the traditions of pure learning. And there is
also something of order and discipline in the uniforming of a community set apart for an unworldly
purpose. Is it believed that three or four years of the kind of separateness marked by this
habit in the life of a girl will rob her of any desirable womanly quality?

The cap and gown are only an emphasis of the purpose to devote a certain period to the higher
life, and if they cannot be defended, then we may begin to be skeptical about the seriousness
of the intention of a higher education. If the school is merely a method of passing the time
until a certain event in the girl's life, she had better dress as if that event were the only
one worth considering. But if she wishes to fit herself for the best married life, she may
not disdain the help of the cap and gown in devoting herself to the highest culture. Of course
education has its dangers, and the regalia of scholarship may increase them. While our cap-and-gown
divinity is walking in the groves of Academia, apart from the ways of men, her sisters outside
may be dancing and dressing into the affections of the marriageable men. But this is not the
worst of it. The university girl may be educating herself out of sympathy with the ordinary
possible husband. But this will carry its own cure. The educated girl will be so much more
attractive in the long-run, will have so many more resources for making a life companionship
agreeable, that she will be more and more in demand. And the young men, even those not expecting
to take up a learned profession, will see the advantage of educating themselves up to the cap-and-gown
level. We know that it is the office of the university to raise the standard of the college,
and of the college to raise the standard of the high school. It will be the inevitable result
that these young ladies, setting themselves apart for a period to the intellectual life, will
raise the standard of the young men, and of married life generally. And there is nothing supercilious
in the invitation of the cap-and-gown brigade to the young men to come up higher.

There is one humiliating objection made to the cap and gown-made by members of the gentle sex
themselves--which cannot be passed by. It is of such a delicate nature, and involves such a
disparagement of the sex in a vital point, that the Drawer hesitates to put it in words. It
is said that the cap and gown will be used to cover untidiness, to conceal the makeshift of
a disorderly and unsightly toilet. Undoubtedly the cap and gown are democratic, adopted probably
to equalize the appearance of rich and poor in the same institution, where all are on an intellectual
level. Perhaps the sex is not perfect; it may be that there are slovens (it is a brutal word)
in that sex which is our poetic image of purity. But a neat and self-respecting girl will no
more be slovenly under a scholastic gown than under any outward finery. If it is true that
the sex would take cover in this way, and is liable to run down at the heel when it has a chance,
then to the "examination" will have to be added a periodic "inspection," such as the West-Pointers
submit to in regard to their uniforms. For the real idea of the cap and gown is to encourage
discipline, order, and neatness. We fancy that it is the mission of woman in this generation
to show the world that the tendency of woman to an intellectual life is not, as it used to
be said it was, to untidy habits.

A TENDENCY OF THE AGE

This ingenious age, when studied, seems not less remarkable for its division of labor than
for the disposition of people to shift labor on to others' shoulders. Perhaps it is only another
aspect of the spirit of altruism, a sort of backhanded vicariousness. In taking an inventory
of tendencies, this demands some attention.

The notion appears to be spreading that there must be some way by which one can get a good
intellectual outfit without much personal effort. There are many schemes of education which
encourage this idea. If one could only hit upon the right "electives," he could become a scholar
with very little study, and without grappling with any of the real difficulties in the way
of an education. It is no more a short-cut we desire, but a road of easy grades, with a locomotive
that will pull our train along while we sit in a palace-car at ease. The discipline to be obtained
by tackling an obstacle and overcoming it we think of small value. There must be some way of
attaining the end of cultivation without much labor. We take readily to proprietary medicines.
It is easier to dose with these than to exercise ordinary prudence about our health. And we
readily believe the doctors of learning when they assure us that we can acquire a new language
by the same method by which we can restore bodily vigor: take one small patent-right volume
in six easy lessons, without even the necessity of "shaking," and without a regular doctor,
and we shall know the language. Some one else has done all the work for us, and we only need
to absorb. It is pleasing to see how this theory is getting to be universally applied. All
knowledge can be put into a kind of pemican, so that we can have it condensed. Everything must
be chopped up, epitomized, put in short sentences, and italicized. And we have primers for
science, for history, so that we can acquire all the information we need in this world in a
few hasty bites. It is an admirable saving of time-saving of time being more important in this
generation than the saving of ourselves.

And the age is so intellectually active, so eager to know! If we wish to know anything, instead
of digging for it ourselves, it is much easier to flock all together to some lecturer who has
put all the results into an hour, and perhaps can throw them all upon a screen, so that we
can acquire all we want by merely using the eyes, and bothering ourselves little about what
is said. Reading itself is almost too much of an effort. We hire people to read for us--to
interpret, as we call it --Browning and Ibsen, even Wagner. Every one is familiar with the
pleasure and profit of "recitations," of "conversations" which are monologues. There is something
fascinating in the scheme of getting others to do our intellectual labor for us, to attempt
to fill up our minds as if they were jars. The need of the mind for nutriment is like the need
of the body, but our theory is that it can be satisfied in a different way. There was an old
belief that in order that we should enjoy food, and that it should perform its function of
assimilation, we must work for it, and that the exertion needed to earn it brought the appetite
that made it profitable to the system. We still have the idea that we must eat for ourselves,
and that we cannot delegate this performance, as we do the filling of the mind, to some one
else. We may have ceased to relish the act of eating, as we have ceased to relish the act of
studying, but we cannot yet delegate it, even although our power of digesting food for the
body has become almost as feeble as the power of acquiring and digesting food for the mind.

It is beautiful to witness our reliance upon others. The house may be full of books, the libraries
may be as free and as unstrained of impurities as city water; but if we wish to read anything
or study anything we resort to a club. We gather together a number of persons of like capacity
with ourselves. A subject which we might grapple with and run down by a few hours of vigorous,
absorbed attention in a library, gaining strength of mind by resolute encountering of difficulties,
by personal effort, we sit around for a month or a season in a club, expecting somehow to take
the information by effortless contiguity with it. A book which we could master and possess
in an evening we can have read to us in a month in the club, without the least intellectual
effort. Is there nothing, then, in the exchange of ideas? Oh yes, when there are ideas to exchange.
Is there nothing stimulating in the conflict of mind with mind? Oh yes, when there is any mind
for a conflict. But the mind does not grow without personal effort and conflict and struggle
with itself. It is a living organism, and not at all like a jar or other receptacle for fluids.
The physiologists say that what we eat will not do us much good unless we chew it. By analogy
we may presume that the mind is not greatly benefited by what it gets without considerable
exercise of the mind.

