He began to glance through the papers, and was disappointed to find that they were less recent
than he had hoped. Evidently the last numbers had been carried off by luckier travellers. He
continued to turn them over, picking out the American ones first. These, as it happened, were
the oldest: they dated back to December and January. To Faxon, however, they had all the flavour
of novelty, since they covered the precise period during which he had virtually ceased to exist.
It had never before occurred to him to wonder what had happened in the world during that interval
of obliteration; but now he felt a sudden desire to know.

To prolong the pleasure, he began by sorting the papers chronologically, and as he found and
spread out the earliest number, the date at the top of the page entered into his consciousness
like a key slipping into a lock. It was the seventeenth of December: the date of the day after
his arrival at Northridge. He glanced at the first page and read in blazing characters: "Reported
Failure of Opal Cement Company. Lavington's name involved. Gigantic Exposure of Corruption
Shakes Wall Street to Its Foundations."

He read on, and when he had finished the first paper he turned to the next. There was a gap
of three days, but the Opal Cement "Investigation" still held the centre of the stage. From
its complex revelations of greed and ruin his eye wandered to the death notices, and he read:
"Rainer. Suddenly, at Northridge, New Hampshire, Francis John, only son of the late...."

His eyes clouded, and he dropped the newspaper and sat for a long time with his face in his
hands. When he looked up again he noticed that his gesture had pushed the other papers from
the table and scattered them at his feet. The uppermost lay spread out before him, and heavily
his eyes began their search again. "John Lavington comes forward with plan for reconstructing
Company. Offers to put in ten millions of his own--The proposal under consideration by the
District Attorney."

Ten millions... ten millions of his own. But if John Lavington was ruined?... Pazon stood up
with a cry. That was it, then--that was what the warning meant! And if he had not fled from
it, dashed wildly away from it into the night, he might have broken the spell of iniquity,
the powers of darkness might not have prevailed! He caught up the pile of newspapers and began
to glance through each in turn for the head-line: "Wills Admitted to Probate." In the last
of all he found the paragraph he sought, and it stared up at him as if with Rainer's dying eyes.

That--that was what he had done! The powers of pity had singled him out to warn and save, and
he had closed his ears to their call, and washed his hands of it, and fled. Washed his hands
of it! That was the word. It caught him back to the dreadful moment in the lodge when, raising
himself up from Rainer's side, he had looked at his hands and seen that they were red....