 Pretend you're by my side and I'm talking about very serious. Have not we both repeated
ad nauseam that we Serna loyal? They do not deserve forgiveness for not knowing my love I've hidden
the difficulties that causes you to thy brother. All right, Don Reserved; to say that I do not care what
you like or angry. What you have told me not to start working in a printing since you had to
leave the race? I have sometimes said that your position and your kind of life you have not
been allowed to treat and get to know these young ladies who not having to think about anything serious
does frivolous and vain. What is, I ask you now know that having failed to confuse me with them? Let's
face the fear that seems too humble your job, the fear that was vain, I have been silenced, and
it turns out the vain you are. Like nothing I say can be angry, I risk everything: what you felt was
embarrassment by pretending to hide that made you need? You know how you call that? False shame,
something very like arrogance. Yes, Pepe, I am more loyal to you: I have offended. Say you
love me because I'm good, and have been able to assume that could make me ill effects, so, clearly,
about working in a printing press. You never fall from the lips of distance, inequality, and what
not more nonsense: just imagine you forgive them because sometimes they are an excuse to be with
you lovely. Accordingly
they got a sharp Newcastle attorney, called Jobson, who, to vary my metaphor, finds it a good
thing enough to retail justice at the sign of Squire Inglewood, and, as his own emoluments
depend on the quantity of business which he transacts, he hooks in his principal for a great
deal more employment in the justice line than the honest squire had ever bargained for; so
that no apple-wife within the circuit of ten miles can settle her account with a costermonger
without an audience of the reluctant Justice and his alert clerk, Mr. Joseph Jobson. But, understand well; if you bring confessor, allowance… let's go, any
stunt that might scare and provoke in his illness a dangerous crisis, I swear, on my mother
and the affection of the woman I love, that I will not treat you as a brother. My discretion
is dependent on your behavior.

We are done! –Everyone shall complete their obligation. --Abur!
--y Pepe, walking on tiptoes went into his room.

Tirso remained alone a while longer in the dining room, pensive and
immobile: the dimming lamp, all of a sudden released two or three
sparks from the wick, which was already dry; the movement of the light
caused the wall to illuminate the shadow of the priest convulsively,
and then he, while trying to see fumbles the door to his bedroom,
lit a candle and, after saying his prayers, he went to bed; but he
took a long time to fall asleep.

His brother’s energy had left him completely puzzled. Pepe was more man than he imagined. The
following morning, Dona Manuela, before going on errands, as was her custom, went to give Pepe a kiss,
while he finished dressing before leaving for work. –I’m going
to run errands; goodbye son. –And to mass, right mama? She, smiling
kindly, limited her response to saying: --What bad is in that? --In
that, nothing; but, listen, mama.

Last night, I had a discussion with Tirso, it had to happen and it
did.

I suppose
he has spoken to you of certain projects that he intends to pursue,
relative to our dad; well imagine the results they will have.

Contain my
brother, impose sanity because I am open to anything.

 Enough of this,
I don't want to look like heavy, and it appears that knows me wrong who suppose the good work
could detract him in my mind. Now, let me call you stupid enjoyment. Good opportunity to get romantic!
