The years as they passed left me with wider interests in, deeper sympathies with, and greater
knowledge of the world and its people. Each year found "one thing worth beginning, one thread
of life worth spinning." The pleasure I derived from the more extended intellectual activity
of my later years was due largely to my association with a band of cultured and earnest women
interested in social, political, and other public questions--women who, seeing "the tides of
things," desired so to direct them that each wave of progress should carry the people to a
higher place on the sands of life. To the outside world little is known of the beginnings and
endings of social movements, which, taken separately, perhaps appear of small consequence,
but which in the aggregate count for a great deal in what is popularly known as the forward
movement. To such as these belonged an interesting association of women, which, meeting at
first informally, grew eventually into a useful organization for the intellectual and moral
development of those who were fortunate enough to be associated with it. This was the "Social
Students' Society," of which Miss A. L. Tomkinson was the secretary and I the first President.
One of the addresses I gave was on "Education," and among others whose addresses helped us
considerably was the Director of Education (Mr. A. Williams). Speakers from all parties addressed
the association, and while the society existed a good deal of educational work was done. Much
interest was taken in the question of public playgrounds for children, and we succeeded in
interesting the City Council in the movement; but, owing to lack of funds, the scheme for the
time being was left in abeyance.

In the agitation for the public ownership of the tramways, I was glad to take a share. The
private ownership of monopolies is indefensible, and my American experiences of the injustice
of the system strengthened my resolve to do my utmost to prevent the growth of the evil in
South Australia. My attitude on the question alienated a number of friends, both from me personally
and from effective voting, so intolerant had people become of any opposition to their own opinions.
The result of the referendum was disappointing, and, I shall always consider, a grave reflection
on a democratic community which permits a referendum to be taken under a system of plural voting
which makes the whole proceeding a farce. But the citizens of Adelaide have need to be grateful
to the patriotic zeal of those who, led by the late Cornelius Proud fought for the public ownership
of the tramways.

These years of activity were crossed by sickness and sorrow. For the first time in a long life,
which had already extended almost a decade beyond the allotted span, I became seriously ill.
To be thus laid low by sickness was a deep affliction to one of my active temperament; but,
if sickness brings trouble, it often brings joy in the tender care and appreciation of hosts
of friends, and this joy I realized to the fullest extent. The following year (1904) was darkened
by the tragic death of my ward, and once more my home was broken up, and with Miss Gregory
I went to live with my good friends Mr. and Mrs. Quilty, in North Norwood. From then on my
life has flowed easily and pleasantly, marred only by the sadness of farewells of many old
friends and comrades on my life's journey, who one by one have passed "through Nature to eternity."

