Twice afterwards we hear of licence being granted by Richard II to dig stone in Cheylesmore
Park, first for Grey Friars Gate, and later for Spon Gate, "near his Chapel of Babelake." The
walls so built were of imposing extent and dimensions, being three yards in breadth, two and
a quarter miles in circumference, and having thirty-two towers and twelve gates.[3] Nehemiah
Wharton, a Parliamentary officer in 1642, reports of the city that it is:

   Environed with a wall co-equal, if not exceedinge, that of
   London, for breadth and height; and with gates and battlements,
   magnificent churches and stately streets and abundant fountains
   of water; altogether a place very sweetly situate and where there
   is no stint of venison.

To return to the monastic history. We have seen how, in the mid-thirteenth century the Monastery
had become the landlord of the city; shortly before this it had been so impoverished with ceaseless
quarrels with the King and the Lichfield Chapter, involving costly appeals to Rome, that the
Prior was reduced to asking the hospitality of the monks of Derley for some of the brethren.
A period of prosperity followed and many benefactions flowed in, including the gift of various
churches by the king. It was after twenty-six years of quarrelling that the Pope, in 1224,
had appointed to the bishopric Walter de Stavenby, an able and learned man. During his episcopacy
the friars made their appearance in England, and by him the Franciscans were introduced at
Lichfield, while at Coventry Ranulph, Earl of Chester, gave them land in Cheylesmore on which
to build their oratory and house.

They were not generally welcomed by the monks. A Benedictine laments their first appearance
thus "Oh shame! oh worse than shame! oh barbarous pestilence! the Minor Brethren are come into
England!" and at Bury they were obliged to build outside a mile radius from the Abbey. The
parish priests also soon found out that they were undersold in the exercise of their spiritual
offices and although no doubt many badly needed awakening they were not, on that account, the
more likely to welcome the intruders.

Another innovation, affecting the fortunes of the parish priest, had its beginning under the
rule of Bishop Stavenby though its greatest development occurred in the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries. This was the foundation of Chantries designed primarily for the maintenance of a
priest or priests to say mass daily or otherwise for the soul's health of the founder, his
family and forbears. The earliest we hear of are one at Lincoln, and one at Hatherton in Coventry
Archdeaconry while the Bishop himself endowed one in Lichfield Cathedral. Many were perpetual
endowments (£5 per annum being the average stipend), others were temporary, according to the
means of those who paid for the masses--for a term of years or for a fixed number of masses.
Although chantry priests were often required to give regular help in the church services or
taught such scholars as came to them or served outlying chapelries, the system permitted a
great number to live on occasional engagements and was doubtless productive of abuses. Chaucer
tells us that his poor parson was not such an one as

    ... left his sheep encumbered in the mire,
    And ran unto London, unto Saint Poul's,
    To seekë him a chantery for souls.

The number of chantries in the different cathedrals varied very greatly, Lichfield had eighty-seven,
St. Paul's thirty-seven, York only three. Monks' churches had few or none while in town churches
they were numerous, London having one hundred and eighty, York forty-two, Coventry at least
fifteen besides the twelve gild priests of the chapel of Babelake. Most were founded in connection
with an existing altar, some had a special altar, at Winchester, Tewkesbury and elsewhere they
were enclosed in screens between the pillars of the nave, or a special chapel was added to
the church.

It was in the thirteenth century also (1267) that the monastery obtained the grant of a Merchants'
Gild; with all the privileges thereto belonging, the earliest of those which contributed so
much to the renown of Coventry. These were Benefit Societies, insuring help to the "Brethren
and sistren" in old age, sickness or poverty, securing to them the services of the church after
death and in all cases established on a strictly religious basis and placed under the protection
of a Saint, or of the Holy Trinity. The regulation and protection of trade interests, generally
aiming at monopoly and the exclusion of outsiders, were later developments. But without doubt
they were public-spirited bodies according to their lights, maintaining schools (as at Stratford-on-Avon)
hospitals and almshouses, and giving freely on all occasions of public importance. By pageants
too, they contributed to the happiness and amusement of the people as well as by the presentation
of Mysteries and Moralities, to their instruction and edification. But in the eyes of the Reformers,
or of grasping courtiers, all this went for nothing when weighed against the heinous offence
of supporting chaplains to pray for deceased members and so (6 Edward VI) they were suppressed
along with the chantries, and their property confiscated, "the very meanest and most inexcusable
of the plunderings which threw discredit on the Reformation."

Here, the city bought back everything which had belonged to the Trinity and Corpus Christi
Gilds, with various almshouses and the possessions of the majority of the Chantries; while
previously at the Dissolution it had bought the abbey-orchard, and mill, and the house and
church of the Grey Friars.

In 1340 Edward III granted Licence to the Coventry men to form a Merchants' Gild with leave
"to make chantries, bestow alms, do other works of piety and constitute ordinances touching
the same." This was St. Mary's Gild. Two years later that of St. John Baptist was formed and
a year later that of St. Katherine, the three being united into the Trinity Gild before 1359.
Of the chapel (now St. John's church) begun in 1344 by the St. John's Gild and the "fair and
stately structure for their feasts and meetings called St Mary Hall" built in 1394 by the united
Gilds more will be said later (p. 81 and p. 97). The end of the fourteenth century and the
fifteenth brought to Coventry a full share in the events and movements of the time. In 1396
the duel between Hereford and Norfolk was to have taken place on Gosford Green (adjoining the
city) and Richard II made the fatal mistake of banishing both combatants. At the Priory in
1404 Henry IV held his Parliament known, from the fact that no lawyers were summoned to it,
as the "Parliamentum Indoctorum." Setting itself in opposition to ecclesiastics, it proposed
to supply the King's needs by taxing church-property. As in the matter of the city walls, the
church contrived to avoid bearing its share of the public burdens and the chronicler ends thus:
"Much ado there was; but to conclude, the worthy Archbishop (viz. Tho. Arundell) standing stoutly
for the good of the Church, preserved it at that time from the storm impending." One branch
of his argument is noteworthy, that as the confiscation of the alien priories had not enriched
the King by half a mark (courtiers having extorted or begged them out of his hands), so it
would be were he to confiscate the temporalities of the monasteries. Henry VIII had reason
to acknowledge the fulfilment of the prophecy.

Soon after this, in 1423, Coventry showed its sympathy for Lollardry when John Grace an anchorite
friar came out of his cell and preached for five days in the "lyttell parke." He was opposed
by the prior of St. Mary's and by a Grey Friar who however were attacked and nearly killed
by the mob.

The royal visits which earned for Coventry the title which it still bears as its motto 'Camera
principis' were frequent in this century. In 1436 we hear of Henry VI being there, and in 1450
he was the guest of the monastery and after hearing mass at St. Michael's Church presented
to it for an altar-hanging the robe of gold tissue he was wearing. The record in the Corporation
Leet book is interesting enough to quote:

   The King, then abydeng stille in the seide Priory, upon Mich'as
   even sent the clerke of his closet to the Churche of Sent Michel
   to make redy ther hys clossette, seying that the Kynge on Mich'as
   day wolde go on p'cession and also her ther hygh masse. The Meyre
   and his counsell, remembreng him in this mater, specially avysed
   hem to pray the Byshoppe of Wynchester to say hygh masse afore
   the Kynge. The Byshoppe so to do agreed withe alle hys herte;
   and, agayne the Kynges comeng to Sent Michel Churche, the Meyre
   and his Peres, cladde in skarlet gowns, wenton unto the Kynges
   Chambar durre, ther abydeng the Kynges comeng. The Meyre then and
   his peres, doeng to the Kyng due obeysaunse ... toke his mase and
   bere it afore the Kynge all his said bredurn goeng afore the
   Meyre til he com to Sent Michels and brought the Kynge to his
   closette. Then the seyde Byshoppe, in his pontificals arayde,
   with all the prestes and clerkes of the seyde Churche and of
   Bablake, withe copes apareld, wenton in p'cession abowte the
   churchyarde; the Kynge devowtely, with many odur lordes, followed
   the seyd p'cession bare-hedded, cladde in a gowne of gold tissu,
   furred with a furre of marturn sabull; the Meyre bereng the mase
   afore the Kynge as he didde afore, tille he com agayne to his
   closette. Att the whyche masse when the Kyng had offered and his
   lordes also, he sende the lorde Bemond, his chamburlen, to the
   Meyre, seying to him, "hit is the Kynges wille that ye and your
   bredurn com and offer;" and so they didde; and when masse was
   don, the Meyre and his peres brought on the Kynge to his chambur
   in lyke wyse as they fet hym, save only that the Meyre with his
   mase went afore the Kynge till he com withe in his chambur, his
   seyd bredurn abydeng atte the chambur durre till the Meyre cam
   ageyne. And at evensong tyme the same day, the Kyng, ... sende
   the seyde gowne and furre that he were when he went in p'cession,
   and gaf hit frely to God and to Sent Michell, insomuch that non
   of the that broughte the gowne wolde take no reward in no wyse.

In 1451 he made the city with the villages and hamlets within its liberties into a county "distinct
and altogether separate from the county of Warwick for ever," and in 1453 the King and Queen
again visited the Priory. Perhaps out of gratitude for all this royal favour, Coventry adhered
to the Lancastrian cause and in 1459 was chosen as the meeting place for the "Parliamentum
Diabolicum," so called from the number of attainders passed against the Yorkists. The year
1467 however saw Edward IV and his Queen keeping their Christmas here, while less than two
years later her father and brother were beheaded on Gosford Green (Aug. 1469).

