Mr. Benjamin Disraeli seems to have thrown himself into the vortex, for he became connected
with at least one financial firm in the City, that of Messrs. Powles, and employed his abilities
in writing several pamphlets on the subject. This led to his inducing Messrs. Powles to embark
with him in the scheme of a daily paper. At length an arrangement was entered into, by which
John Murray, J.D. Powles, and Benjamin Disraeli were to become the joint proprietors of the
proposed new journal. The arrangement was as follows:

MEMORANDUM.

LONDON, August 3, 1825.

The undersigned parties agree to establish a Morning Paper, the property in which is to be
in the following proportions, viz.:

Mr. Murray.... One-half. Mr. Powles.... One-quarter. Mr. Disraeli.... One-quarter.

Each party contributing to the expense, capital, and risk, in those proportions.

The paper to be published by, and be under the management of Mr. Murray.

JOHN MURRAY.

J.D. POWLES.

B. DISRAELI.

Such was the memorandum of agreement entered into with a view to the publication of the new
morning paper, eventually called the Representative. As the first number was to appear in January
1826, there was little time to be lost in making the necessary arrangements for its publication.
In the first place, an able editor had to be found; and, perhaps of almost equal importance,
an able subeditor. Trustworthy reporters had to be engaged; foreign and home correspondents
had also to be selected with care; a printing office had to be taken; all the necessary plant
and apparatus had to be provided, and a staff of men brought together preliminary to the opening
day.

The most important point in connection with the proposed journal was to find the editor. Mr.
Murray had been so ably assisted by Sir Walter Scott in the projection of the Quarterly Review,
that he resolved to consult him on the subject; and this mission was undertaken by Benjamin
Disraeli, part proprietor of the intended daily journal, though he was then only twenty years
old. It was hoped that Mr. Lockhart, Sir Walter Scott's son-in-law, might be induced to undertake
the editorship. The following are Mr. Disraeli's letters to Mr. Murray, giving an account of
the progress of his negotiations. It will be observed that he surrounds the subject with a
degree of mystery, through the names which he gives to the gentlemen whom he interviewed. Thus
the Chevalier is Sir Walter Scott; M. is Mr. Lockhart; X. is Mr. Canning; O. is the political
Puck (could this be himself?); and Chronometer is Mr. Barrow.

On reaching Edinburgh, Mr. Disraeli wrote to Mr. Murray the following account of his first
journey across the Border:

Mr. B. Disraeli to John Murray.

ROYAL HOTEL, EDINBURGH. September 21, 1825.

MY DEAR SIR,

I arrived in Edinburgh yesterday night at 11 o'clock. I slept at Stamford, York, and Newcastle,
and by so doing felt quite fresh at the end of my journey. I never preconceived a place better
than Edinburgh. It is exactly what I fancied it, and certainly is the most beautiful town in
the world. You can scarcely call it a city; at least, it has little of the roar of millions,
and at this time is of course very empty. I could not enter Scotland by the route you pointed
out, and therefore was unable to ascertain the fact of the Chevalier being at his Castellum.
I should in that case have gone by Carlisle. I called on the gentleman to whom Wright [Footnote:
A solicitor in London, and friend of both parties, who had been consulted in the negotiations.]
gave me a letter this morning. He is at his country house; he will get a letter from me this
morning. You see, therefore, that I have lost little time.

I called at Oliver & Boyd's this morning, thinking that you might have written. You had not,
however. When you write to me, enclose to them, as they will forward, wherever I may be, and
my stay at an hotel is always uncertain. Mr. Boyd was most particularly civil. Their establishment
is one of the completest I have ever seen. They are booksellers, bookbinders, and printers,
all under the same roof; everything but making paper. I intend to examine the whole minutely
before I leave, as it may be useful. I never thought of binding. Suppose you were to sew, etc.,
your own publications?

I arrived at York in the midst of the Grand [Musical] Festival. It was late at night when I
arrived, but the streets were crowded, and continued so for hours. I never witnessed a city
in such an extreme bustle, and so delightfully gay. It was a perfect carnival. I postponed
my journey from five in the morning to eleven, and by so doing got an hour for the Minster,
where I witnessed a scene which must have far surpassed, by all accounts, the celebrated commemoration
in Westminster Abbey. York Minster baffles all conception. Westminster Abbey is a toy to it.
I think it is impossible to conceive of what Gothic architecture is susceptible until you see
York. I speak with cathedrals of the Netherlands and the Rhine fresh in my memory. I witnessed
in York another splendid sight--the pouring in of all the nobility and gentry of the neighbourhood
and the neighbouring counties. The four-in-hands of the Yorkshire squires, the splendid rivalry
in liveries and outriders, and the immense quantity of gorgeous equipages--numbers with four
horses--formed a scene which you can only witness in the mighty and aristocratic county of
York. It beat a Drawing Room hollow, as much as an oratorio in York Minster does a concert
in the Opera House. This delightful stay at York quite refreshed me, and I am not the least
fatigued by my journey.

As I have only been in Edinburgh a few hours, of course I have little to say. I shall write
immediately that anything occurs. Kindest remembrances to Mrs. Murray and all.

Ever yours,

B.D.

I find Froissart a most entertaining companion, just the fellow for a traveller's evening;
and just the work too, for it needs neither books of reference nor accumulations of MS.

ROYAL HOTEL, EDINBURGH, Sunday.

September 22, 1825.

MY DEAR SIR,

I sent a despatch by Saturday night's post, directed to Mr. Barrow. You have doubtless received
it safe. As I consider you are anxious to hear minutely of the state of my operations, I again
send you a few lines. I received this morning a very polite letter from L[ockhart]. He had
just received that morning (Saturday) Wright's letter. I enclose you a copy of L.'s letter,
as it will be interesting to you to see or judge what effect was produced on his mind by its
perusal. I have written to-day to say that I will call at Chiefswood [Footnote: Chiefswood,
where Lockhart then lived, is about two miles distant from Abbotsford. Sir Walter Scott describes
it as "a nice little cottage, in a glen belonging to this property, with a rivulet in front,
and a grove of trees on the east side to keep away the cold wind."] on Tuesday. I intend to
go to Melrose tomorrow, but as I will not take the chance of meeting him the least tired, I
shall sleep at Melrose and call on the following morning. I shall, of course, accept his offer
of staying there. I shall call again at B[oyd]'s before my departure to-morrow, to see if there
is any despatch from you.... I shall continue to give you advice of all my movements. You will
agree with me that I have at least not lost any time, but that all things have gone very well
as yet. There is of course no danger in our communications of anything unfairly transpiring;
but from the very delicate nature of names interested, it will be expedient to adopt some cloak.

The Chevalier will speak for itself.

M., from Melrose, for Mr. L.

X. for a certain personage on whom we called one day, who lives a slight distance from town,
and who was then unwell.

O. for the political Puck.

MR. CHRONOMETER will speak for itself, at least to all those who give African dinners.

I think this necessary, and try to remember it. I am quite delighted with Edinburgh, Its beauties
become every moment more apparent. The view from the Calton Hill finds me a frequent votary.
In the present state of affairs, I suppose it will not be expedient to leave the letter for
Mrs. Bruce. It will seem odd; p.p.c. at the same moment I bring a letter of introduction. If
I return to Edinburgh, I can avail myself of it. If the letter contains anything which would
otherwise make Mrs. Murray wish it to be left, let me know. I revel in the various beauties
of a Scotch breakfast. Cold grouse and marmalade find me, however, constant.

Ever yours,

B.D.

The letter of Mr. Lockhart, to which Mr. Disraeli refers, ran as follows:

Mr. J.G. Lockhart to Mr. B. Disraeli.

"The business to which the letter [of Mr. Wright] refers entitles it to much consideration.
As yet I have had no leisure nor means to form even an approximation towards any opinion as
to the proposal Mr. W. mentions, far less to commit my friend. In a word, I am perfectly in
the dark as to everything else, except that I am sure it will give Mrs. Lockhart and myself
very great pleasure to see Mr. Disraeli under this roof.... If you had no other object in view,
I flatter myself that this neighbourhood has, in Melrose and Abbotsford, some attractions not
unworthy of your notice."

Mr. Disraeli paid his promised visit to Chiefswood. It appeared that Mr. Lockhart expected
to receive Mr. Isaac D'Israeli, the well-known author of "The Curiosities of Literature"; instead
of which, the person who appeared before him was Mr. D'Israeli's then unknown son Benjamin.

Mr. B, Disraeli to John Murray.

CHIEFSWOOD, September 25, 1825.

MY DEAR SIR,

I arrived at Chiefswood yesterday. M. [Lockhart] had conceived that it was my father who was
coming. He was led to believe this through Wright's letter. In addition, therefore, to his
natural reserve, there was, of course, an evident disappointment at seeing me. Everything looked
as black as possible. I shall not detain you now by informing you of fresh particulars. I leave
them for when we meet. Suffice it to say that in a few hours we completely understood each
other, and were upon the most intimate terms. M. enters into our views with a facility and
readiness which were capital. He thinks that nothing can be more magnificent or excellent;
but two points immediately occurred: First, the difficulty of his leaving Edinburgh without
any ostensible purpose; and, secondly, the losing caste in society by so doing. He is fully
aware that he may end by making his situation as important as any in the empire, but the primary
difficulty is insurmountable.

As regards his interest, I mentioned that he should be guaranteed, for three years, £1,000
per annum, and should take an eighth of every paper which was established, without risk, his
income ceasing on his so doing. These are much better terms than we had imagined we could have
made. The agreement is thought extremely handsome, both by him and the Chevalier; but the income
is not imagined to be too large. However, I dropped that point, as it should be arranged with
you when we all meet.

The Chevalier breakfasted here to-day, and afterwards we were all three closeted together.
The Chevalier entered into it excellently. He thought, however, that we could not depend upon
Malcolm, Barrow, etc., keeping to it; but this I do not fear. He, of course, has no idea of
your influence or connections. With regard to the delicate point I mentioned, the Chevalier
is willing to make any sacrifice in his personal comforts for Lockhart's advancement; but he
feels that his son-in-law will "lose caste" by going to town without anything ostensible. He
agrees with me that M. cannot accept an official situation of any kind, as it would compromise
his independence, but he thinks Parliament for M. indispensable, and also very much to our
interest. I dine at Abbotsford to-day, and we shall most probably again discuss matters.

Now, these are the points which occur to me. When M. comes to town, it will be most important
that it should be distinctly proved to him that he will be supported by the great interests
I have mentioned to him. He must see that, through Powles, all America and the Commercial Interest
is at our beck; that Wilmot H., etc., not as mere under-secretary, but as our private friend,
is most staunch; that the Chevalier is firm; that the West India Interest will pledge themselves
that such men and in such situations as Barrow, etc., etc., are distinctly in our power; and
finally, that he is coming to London, not to be an Editor of a Newspaper, but the Director-General
of an immense organ, and at the head of a band of high-bred gentlemen and important interests.

The Chevalier and M. have unburthened themselves to me in a manner the most confidential that
you can possibly conceive. Of M.'s capability, perfect complete capability, there is no manner
of doubt. Of his sound principles, and of his real views in life, I could in a moment satisfy
you. Rest assured, however, that you are dealing with a perfect gentleman. There has been no
disguise to me of what has been done, and the Chevalier had a private conversation with me
on the subject, of a nature the most satisfactory. With regard to other plans of ours, if we
could get him up, we should find him invaluable. I have a most singular and secret history
on this subject when we meet.

Now, on the grand point--Parliament. M. cannot be a representative of a Government borough.
It is impossible. He must be free as air. I am sure that if this could be arranged, all would
be settled; but it is "indispensable," without you can suggest anything else. M. was two days
in company with X. this summer, as well as X.'s and our friend, but nothing transpired of our
views. This is a most favourable time to make a parliamentary arrangement. What do you think
of making a confidant of Wilmot H[orton]? He is the kind of man who would be right pleased
by such conduct. There is no harm of Lockhart's coming in for a Tory borough, because he is
a Tory; but a Ministerial borough is impossible to be managed.

If this point could be arranged, I have no doubt that I shall be able to organise, in the interest
with which I am now engaged, a most immense party, and a most serviceable one. Be so kind as
not to leave the vicinity of London, in case M. and myself come up suddenly; but I pray you,
if you have any real desire to establish a mighty engine, to exert yourself at this present
moment, and assist me to your very utmost. Write as soon as possible, to give me some idea
of your movements, and direct to me here, as I shall then be sure to obtain your communication.
The Chevalier and all here have the highest idea of Wright's nous, and think it most important
that he should be at the head of the legal department. I write this despatch in the most extreme
haste.

Ever yours,

B.D.

On receiving the above letter and the previous communications, Mr. Murray sent them to Mr.
Isaac D'Israeli for his perusal.

Mr. Isaac D'Israeli to Mr. Murray.

HYDE HOUSE, AMERSHAM,

September 29, 1825.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

How deeply I feel obliged and gratified by your confidential communication! I read repeatedly
the third letter of our young plenipotentiary. I know nothing against him but his youth--a
fault which a few seasons of experience will infallibly correct; but I have observed that the
habits and experience he has acquired as a lawyer often greatly serve him in matters o£ business.
His views are vast, but they are baaed on good sense, and he is most determinedly serious when
he sets to work. The Chevalier and M. seem to have received him with all the open confidence
of men struck by a stranger, yet a stranger not wholly strange, and known enough to them to
deserve their confidence if he could inspire it. I flatter myself he has fully--he must, if
he has really had confidential intercourse with the Chevalier, and so confidently impresses
you with so high and favourable a character of M. On your side, my dear Murray, no ordinary
exertions will avail. You, too, have faith and confidence to inspire in them. You observe how
the wary Northern Genius attempted to probe whether certain friends of yours would stand together;
no doubt they wish to ascertain that point. Pardon me if I add, that in satisfying their cautious
and anxious inquiries as to your influence with these persons, it may be wise to throw a little
shade of mystery, and not to tell everything too openly at first; because, when objects are
clearly defined, they do not affect our imaginations as when they are somewhat concealed....
Vast as the project seems, held up as it will be by personages of wealth, interests, politics,
etc., whenever it is once set up, I should have no fears for the results, which are indeed
the most important that one can well conceive.... Had the editor of "Paul Jones" consulted
me a little, I could probably have furnished him with the account of the miserable end of his
hero; and I am astonished it is not found, as you tell me, in your American biography. [Footnote:
The last paragraph in Mr. D'Israeli's letter refers to "The Life of Paul Jones," which has
been already mentioned. As the novel "Aylmer Papillon," written in 1824, was never published,
the preface to "Paul Jones" was Benjamin's first appearance as an author.]

Meanwhile, young Disraeli still remained with Mr. Lockhart at Chiefswood.

Mr. B, Disraeli to John Murray.

September, 1825.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am quite sure, that upon the business I am upon now every line will be acceptable, and I
therefore make no apology for this hurried despatch. I have just received a parcel from Oliver
& Boyd. I transmitted a letter from M. to Wright, and which [Footnote: This is an ungrammatical
construction which Lord Beaconsfield to the end of his days never abandoned. Vide letter on
p. 318 and Lothair passim.--T.M.] was for your mutual consideration, to you, viá Chronometer,
last Friday. I afterwards received a note from you, dated Chichester, and fearing from that
circumstance that some confusion would arise, I wrote a few lines to you at Mr. Holland's.
[Footnote: The Rev. W. Holland, Mr. Murray's brother-in-law, was a minor canon of Chichester.]
I now find that you will be in town on Monday, on which day I rather imagine the said letter
from M. to Wright will arrive. I therefore trust that the suspected confusion will not arise.

I am very much obliged to you for your letters; but I am very sorry that you have incurred
any trouble, when it is most probable that I shall not use them. The Abbotsford and Chiefswood
families have placed me on such a friendly and familiar footing, that it is utterly impossible
for me to leave them while there exists any chance of M.'s going to England. M. has introduced
me to most of the neighbouring gentry, and receives with a loud laugh any mention of my return
to Edinburgh. I dined with Dr. Brewster the other day. He has a pretty place near Melrose.
It is impossible for me to give to you any written idea of the beauty and unique character
of Abbotsford. Adio!

B.D.

Mr. Murray continued to transmit the correspondence to Mr. Isaac D'Israeli, whose delight may
be conceived from the following:

Mr. D'Israeli to John Murray.

October 9, 1825.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

Thanks! My warmest ones are poor returns for the ardent note you have so affectionately conveyed
to me by him on whom we now both alike rest our hopes and our confidence. The more I think
of this whole affair, from its obscure beginnings, the more I am quite overcome by what he
has already achieved; never did the finest season of blossoms promise a richer gathering. But
he has not the sole merit, for you share it with him, in the grand view you take of the capability
of this new intellectual steam engine.

In the following letter Lockhart definitely declined the editorship of the Representative.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

October 7, 1825.

"I am afraid, that in spite of my earnest desire to be clear and explicit, you have not after
all fully understood the inexpressible feeling I entertain in regard to the impossibility of
my ever entering into the career of London in the capacity of a newspaper editor. I confess
that you, who have adorned and raised your own profession so highly, may feel inclined, and
justly perhaps, to smile at some of my scruples; but it is enough to say that every hour that
has elapsed since the idea was first started has only served to deepen and confirm the feeling
with which I at the first moment regarded it; and, in short, that if such a game ought to be
played, I am neither young nor poor enough to be the man that takes the hazard."

Sir Walter Scott also expressed his views on the subject as follows:

Sir W. Scott to John Murray.

ABBOTSFORD, Sunday,

MY DEAR SIR,

Lockhart seems to wish that I would express my opinion of the plan which you have had the kindness
to submit to him, and I am myself glad of an opportunity to express my sincere thanks for the
great confidence you are willing to repose in one so near to me, and whom I value so highly.
There is nothing in life that can be more interesting to me than his prosperity, and should
there eventually appear a serious prospect of his bettering his fortunes by quitting Scotland,
I have too much regard for him to desire him to remain, notwithstanding all the happiness I
must lose by his absence and that of my daughter. The present state, however, of the negotiation
leaves me little or no reason to think that I will be subjected to this deprivation, for I
cannot conceive it advisable that he should leave Scotland on the speculation of becoming editor
of a newspaper. It is very true that this department of literature may and ought to be rendered
more respectable than it is at present, but I think this is a reformation more to be wished
than hoped for, and should think it rash for any young man, of whatever talent, to sacrifice,
nominally at least, a considerable portion of his respectability in society in hopes of being
submitted as an exception to a rule which is at present pretty general. This might open the
door to love of money, but it would effectually shut it against ambition.

To leave Scotland, Lockhart must make very great sacrifices, for his views here, though moderate,
are certain, his situation in public estimation and in private society is as high as that of
any one at our Bar, and his road to the public open, if he chooses to assist his income by
literary resources. But of the extent and value of these sacrifices he must himself be a judge,
and a more unprejudiced one, probably, than I am.

I am very glad he meets your wishes by going up to town, as this, though it should bear no
further consequences, cannot but serve to show a grateful sense of the confidence and kindness
of the parties concerned, and yours in particular.

I beg kind compliments to Mr. D'Israeli, and am, dear sir, with best wishes for the success
of your great national plan.

Yours very truly,

WALTER SCOTT.

