Now all people, old or young, are influenced in conduct somewhat by their associates and friends;
but young people especially are susceptible to the influence of example. And it is a painful
but well known fact that young people are much more easily and quickly influenced by bad example
than by good. One frivolous, vain, forward, pert young girl, coming for a season into association
with a company of young people, may in a few short weeks make her impress on the manners and
conversation of the whole of them. Her slang expressions will be adopted; her loud manners
and eccentricities of dress will be imitated; her frivolity and dislike for any of the serious
duties of life will prove contagious.

For you, and for any young girl, I would consider dangerous and harmful intimate association with:

1. The young girl who, either from circumstances or natural disposition, does not compel herself,
or is not compelled to do something--to study her lessons and take some useful share in every-day
duties. "Nothing to do is worse than nothing to eat," said a great man, Thomas Carlyle; and
observing parents or teachers know this to be especially true of young people. It makes no
difference that they don't want to do anything or to exert themselves. The very absence of
exertion makes them weak and indisposed to effort. It is a lamentable lack at the present time
among a large proportion of the daughters of comfortable and refined homes, that they have
small physical strength and no qualities of endurance at all. They are "all tired out" if they
sweep and dust or do housework for an hour or two, or take a half-mile walk on an errand, or
sew continuously for an hour. Very likely they will want to lie down and rest an hour after
such exertion. This is all the result of unexercised muscles and mental indolence. That mother
was quite right, who, when her boarding-school daughter complained that it made her arms ache
to sweep, replied: "Well, you must sweep till it doesn't make them ache." Mind and body both
grow strong through exercise. Unexercised muscles, of course, will be weak and flabby and tire
easily. But the young girl whom it tires to work is most likely on the qui vive about some
folly or other nearly all the time. Lack of healthful mental and bodily occupation and stimulus
will almost certainly produce a craving for unhealthy excitement. Such a girl is apt to be
constantly planning for mere pleasure and to have "a good time." And, oh! what an unsatisfying,
unworthy aim in life is this, and how pernicious in its effects! Pleasure and "a good time"
are all very well, but unless they are partaken of sparingly they produce a mental effect similar
to that which the constant use of desserts and sweetmeats, instead of plain substantial food,
would produce in the physical system. Association with the idle and the mere pleasure-seeker
is therefore to be guarded against, for their influence cannot but be harmful.

2. Although perfection is not to be expected in any companion or associate, yet there are certain
defects of character which are so grave that parents cannot afford to encourage their children
in associating with those who exhibit these in a marked degree. Untruthfulness; the habit of
gossiping about friends or acquaintances or divulging family privacies; sullenness and moroseness
under reproof; rebellious and disrespectful expressions and conduct toward parents and teachers;
indifference to the good opinion of sensible people, as shown by unusual and startling conduct
in public places; all such things mark the undesirable associate for young girls. But there
are young girls against whom none of these complaints could be made, who are undesirable companions
because they are wholly absorbed in love of dress and display and desire to be admired and
noticed. It is generally among this class that we find young girls who prefer to an altogether
unreasonable and unbecoming extent, the society of young men to the society of their own sex.
It is among these that we find the young lady who does not know how to prevent undue familiarity
in the conduct of young men; who will tolerate without disapprobation or protest, rude conduct
on the part of young men. This over-eagerness for their society, and easy toleration of too
familiar conduct and conversation, young men, who are quick discerners in such matters, are
very apt to take advantage of. Only the best and most high-principled among them will refrain
from doing so.

I have spoken of the influence that a frivolous, vain, selfish companion will be sure to exercise
over those with whom she is intimately associated. For you, as for any young girl, I would
seek to prevent such associations. On the other hand, I should rejoice to see you form friendships
with good, high-minded, intelligent, gentle-mannered girls of your own age, and should hope
that you would mutually emulate and stimulate each other in all worthy aims and ambitions.
Such friendships, however, are seldom hastily formed. The gushing and violent attachments that
sometimes spring up between young girls are sure to be of mushroom growth and duration, unless
there is genuine character and merit in both. During the period of the continuance of such
friendships, a great deal of "selfishness for two" is often developed and manifested. Very
often when young people are visiting together their attentions to each other seem to make them
forget their duties and the attentions due to other people. Here is one of the best tests of
the true character of a young girl: her conduct in the house where she is a visitor. If she
is truly well-mannered and kind-hearted she will certainly be on her guard to conform to the
hours and habits of the household where she is a guest; she will avoid making any demands upon
the time of her friend that would cause that friend to neglect her daily duties or put to inconvenience
the other members of the family. She will divide her attentions with all the members of the
family, having special regard for the very young or the very old. She will, above all things,
be prompt and punctual at meal-time. Her own tact and judgment will enable her to judge how
much assistance she should offer, if any, to the friends she visits--a matter which must always
be determined by circumstances. In some families and under some circumstances it might be a
breach of decorum and an act of officiousness on the part of a visitor to make any offer of
assistance in the matter of the daily household arrangements. In other families and under other
circumstances it might be an act of the kindest and best politeness to undertake every day
during her visit a portion of the daily home-duties. That which a young girl who is a visitor
in any family should first of all observe, is the wishes and convenience of the older people
of the household. If the friend she is visiting should show too much disposition to make everything
about the house bend to the occasion of the visit, the visitor should deprecate this, both
by word and example. Every mother of young daughters knows the difference between visitors
who are thoughtful and deferential and helpful, and those whose overweening interest in self
and selfish plans makes them oblivious to the convenience and wishes and preferences of their
hostess and other members of the family.

If one wished thoroughly to understand the character of any young girl, no better test could
be applied than to invite her to a three weeks' family visit.

LETTER VII.

TACT--UNOBTRUSIVENESS.

My Dear Daughter:--In one of my letters to you, I said that there were certain excellent manuals
which contained important general and special directions concerning the forms and manners or
etiquette of polite society, and that all young people should study and profit by some standard
works of this kind. But there are a great many things pertaining to the conduct of life, that
go to make up character and affect the impression we make upon those around us, which are not
set down in books and cannot be imparted by set forms and rules. For instance, one of the most
desirable possessions for any person, young or old, is tact--a power of moving on through life
without constantly coming into collision with people and things and opinions. And yet no rules
were ever laid down by which anyone can learn to acquire tact. It is rather the natural result
of a disposition to make people with whom we are associated comfortable and happy, since in
order to do this we must constantly guard against arousing antagonisms or wounding the susceptibilities
of those around us.

Now, to illustrate by some instances of lack of tact: A lady guest at a table where broiled
ham was the meat provided, declined to take any, and then added, "I don't think pork is fit
food for any human stomach." Of course an embarrassment fell upon host and hostess and all
the company, and the rest of the meal-time was passed in an ineffectual endeavor to restore
conversation to a harmonious basis. What caused this lady to make such a remark? Simply lack
of tact, which means that she had not the fine sensitiveness that would prevent her from wounding
the feelings of her friends. She had no delicacy of perception as to the reflection she cast
upon her host and hostess by so brusquely condemning something to which they were habituated.
This is one instance of lack of tact, but here is another of different character: A company
of educated people sat down at table together, and the conversation happened to turn on the
question of the authorship of Shakespeare's plays. One lady, who was a recent college graduate
and supposed to be possessed of an unusual degree of culture, said in a most positive manner:
"I think the advocates of the theory that some one other than Shakespeare wrote the plays attributed
to him, simply show their ignorance and shallowness." An uncomfortable pause fell upon, the
company, for two of the best informed people present were entirely convinced that some one
other than Shakespeare wrote the plays. It was simply lack of tact that betrayed this lady
into a positiveness and obtrusiveness of statement that made others uncomfortable and aroused
their antagonism. Here is still another instance: One lady was introduced to another lady who
was the wife of a gentleman much older than herself. After catching the name the lady said:
"Are you the wife of old Mr. C----?" Of course everybody around who had any sensibility was
pained and embarrassed by such a blunt, brusque question. Yet the lady who displayed this want
of tact was a college graduate and the principal teacher in an important school.

Now, no rule or rules will ever prevent anyone from doing and saying things which show lack
of tact. Nothing will do it but the cultivation of a spirit of sympathy which will enable one
to realize how other people feel when their opinions and peculiarities or circumstances are
so bluntly antagonized or alluded to. I know an excellent and high-minded lady, of superior
intellectual culture, who often complains that she has few friends. She says that she longs
for the affection and esteem of her friends, yet, as she expresses it, she has "no personal
magnetism." I was once present in a literary society of which this lady, Mrs. A., was a member.
Another member, Mrs. B., made a statement about a matter under discussion in the society, when
Mrs. A. arose and said, bluntly: "That is not true." Everybody was astonished, and listened
almost indignantly while Mrs. A. went on to show that Mrs. B. had simply been misinformed and
was mistaken. It would have been entirely easy and proper for Mrs. A. to ask permission to
correct a misapprehension on the part of Mrs. B., and she could have done it in such a way
as would have wounded nobody's feelings. Mrs. A., while she complains that she has few friends,
frequently asserts that she believes in saying just what she thinks. This is all well enough,
but she says it with so little tact as to constantly wound the feelings and antagonize the
opinions of everyone around her.

Tact is as important in manners as in speech. The word is closely allied to the word touch,
and a person who has good tact is really one who can touch people gently, carefully, kindly,
in all the relations of life. In the animal creation no creature has more perfect tact than
a well-bred kindly-treated household cat. You may have seen one of these enter a room where
perhaps a circle of people were seated around a stove or open fire. Puss wants her warm place
in front of the fire or stove, but she does not brusquely and rudely push her way there. No.
She glides gently, purringly around the circle, rubs caressingly against this one and that,
as though gently saying, "By your leave"; and when finally she reaches the desired spot, she
lays herself down so gracefully and quietly and curls herself up so deftly that to witness
the act really affords pleasure to the observer. A creature of less tact and grace would only
appear obtrusive and offend and antagonize the company, and probably rightfully receive reproof
and be ejected from the room.

And so I would wish to see you and all young people cultivate tact; study how to speak and
act so as to touch gently all with whom you are associated. Behind the best tact lies the wish
to be kind and to make people comfortable and happy, to avoid wounding and irritating; and
so it is true that the basis of true tact is, after all, the moral sentiment.

