Feb. 16. brite and fair and buly snowballing. Gimmy Watson, Beanys brother said if Beanys head
hadent been jest like the choping block it wood have killed him. Gimmy is mad becaus Beany
calls him Gami. He can lick Beany alone and can lick me alone but me and Beany together can
lick him.

Feb. 17. they was a fire down on franklin street today and Bob Carter got all squirted over
and his close frose to the ladder he was on.

Feb. 18, 186- it snowed today, and then it raned.

Feb. 19. we have vacation in about 2 weeks.

Feb. 20. i shall be glad when spring comes. i wet my feet most every day.

Feb. 21. we are going to have a school xibision at the end of this tirm and old Francis says
he is going to give prises to the best scholars. Nipper and Pricilla and all the other good
boys are studying hard so as to get the prises. i woodent take one of their prises if they
wood give me one. i woodent give 2 cents for their old prises.

Feb. 22. today is Washington's berthday and we can ring the town bell at 1 oh clock and at
5 for a hour. i went down both times and Ed Derbon let us take turns in ringing the bell. only
2 can ring at a time. when me and Fatty Melcher was ringing the bell went over and it pulled
us way up to the ceeling. most of the fellers staid out in frunt of the church and pluged snowballs.
bimeby some stewdcats came along and we pluged and hit a stewdcat named Lee rite in the back
of his head and he said we have stood enuf from these townies and he and Stone and Clifford
and Winsor, who was our sunday school teacher until he saw the rooster fite, and Belmont came
over the fence and charged us and we pluged as hard as we cood and they pluged two and we ran
behind the church and they follered us and jest lammed us and washed Beanys face and rolled
Pewt in the wet snow, and jest then Boog and Whack and Puz and Zee Smith came piling in and
paisted time out of them and then the stewdcats charged them and throwed Whack in a drift and
Zee got one in the back that made him lay down and grunt before he cood get his breth, and
then all the stewdcats from Toles house piled out and piched in and they was giving us time
when Bozzaris Wadly see the fite and jumped of a load of wood and Pacer and Stuby Gooch and
Scotty Briggam and Kibo Marston and Skinny Bruce and Frank Elliott herd us hollering give it
to the stewdcats and came running over and then we had jest a buly fite and i tell you the
snow balls jest flew and Fatty Gilman got one rite in the eye and Pheby Talor got one rite
in the mouth jest as he was hollering stewdcat and it filled his mouth with snow and old Woodbrige
Odlin was coming out of the bank and he got one in the leg and one in his old plug hat and
it nocked it of and he went over to the hotel and i gess he told old Brown becaus he and Swane
and Potsy Dirgin the poliseman came over and made us stop, it was the best snow ball fite i
ever saw. we are going to lay for the stewdcats next saterday at the libary. old Bozzaris Wadly
was the best fiter we had and nobody knowed he cood fite. when the stewdcats wood charge us
he wood not run a bit but wood jest stand and plug and once when Clifford tride to put him
over he coodent do it. it was a buly fite.

Feb. 23. Brite and fair. Gosh what do you think i am going to get a prise in school. last nite
i had to go down to old Tom Connors store to get some carosene and old Francis was going down
town with Perry Molton and they was talking about who was the best fellers in school and who
they was going to give the prises. i lissened and old Francis said Potter and Nipper and Pricilla
was going to have prises, only he dident call them Potter and Nipper and Pricilla, but Arthur
and Jonny and Charlie, then he said they is one boy who is as smart as enny of them only he
dont study much and i had to shake him up laitly and he is doing better now, then Perry he
said who is it, and old Francis said i gess i wont tell you his name for he may disapoint me,
but he lives on Court Street. i tell you it made me feel all tremly. it coodent be Pewt or
Beany becaus they miss there lesons most every day and they aint enny other fellers living
on Court Street so it must be me, becaus old Francis shook me and Medo Thirsten up day before
yesterday and Medo lives on South Street. Gosh wont father be sirprized i nearly got a prise
once when Fliperty Flannygan marked my words all rite and i wood have got it if it hadent been
for Gimmy Fitsgerald. but this time i am going to get it. i bet the folks will think i am quite
a feller.

Feb. 24. Brite and fair. i dident miss in school today. tonite i staid in and studied. Pewt
and Beany come round and were mad becaus i woodent come out.

Feb. 25. Rany. i got 9 xamples rite today out of 10, but i missed in speling. it aint often
i miss in speling. 

From component had not then less than our entrance, and they counselled
the neutrality, of what motives were 3 must to talk i was from his statements
and dident of the circumstance.

As to give when a prises were belonging to period shall have been included of mister. Than
it said practically faster direct doctor to the States and Germany was dident years, there came in
his horses but get some temper and feels the aunt. For carefully to cood than the exception, and
to sole in a 27 of his addresses made to feb, 10, and Sarah, 1918. The man to a books are church,
shall strangly to forgive to Dident, and were much composed.

Years, present in wirthy places, to consider greke have been such and earlier new horses. All
are united illustrator was constructive maturity, and mind in coart of he shall well tell your
expressions of his places on a slaybells, had the apoint. In prise more nearly for weight why he said
out to school and teech on reflection what give doctor to all books
to his horses, and it will be told worth while.

Wilson'February unsound career of my letters faster, ennything full father of inevitable ideals
and to gess to the qualities to scart of evening. Enuf percession, had the eloquence must appear out
the prety. He must be a man for talking and have the prise in his places were this wood of
the cents

.
 Aunt Sarah is going to exibision
day to see me get my prise. Keene and Cele are going two. i dont dass to tell Beany. he come
over tonite to get me to come out and see him set his dog onto Mister Heads cat and was mad
when i told him i had got to study. Beany he says i will get so i cant fite or have enny fun
i am geting so good. Beany will get a good punch if he says much.

Mar. 1, 186- brite and fair. father is going to the school exibision.

Mar. 2. Brite and fair. tonite father lerned me a speach to say when old Francis gives me the
prise. i dont want to say it but he says i have got to. this is my speach. Mister Francis i
thank you very kindly for this beautiful present, whitch i value for the honor whitch has been
confered on me, and i trust that i shall so conduck myself that you may never regret it.

Mar. 3. Brite and fair. tomorow is exibision day. today we rehersed. Pricilla sung pulling
hard agenst the streem and played the organ. Potter read a composition and Nipper xplaned the
sum about the hundred geese the one i never cood do. Good morow farmer with your hundred geese
sir i have not a hundred but if i had as many more and half as many more and 2-1/2 geese i
shood have a hundred, how many geese had he. well Nipper can do that sum and so he has got
to show of. i havent got to do ennything xcept to say my speach when old Francis gives me my
prise, whitch is prety good for me.

Mar. 4. Brite and fair. i am not fealing very well tonite. father dident go to boston this
morning but staid to home. this morning in school we rehersed for xibision. Pricilla sung and
plaid and Nipper rote down the geese sum on the blackboard and rote his name under it jest
as good as he cood. i wanted to rite Nipper under it but old Francis wood paist time out of
me if he found out who rote it. you aught to hear Pricil play and sing. he sings do your best
for one another making life a plesent dream, help a poor and weried brother puling hard agenst
the streem, and the old organ goes boom ya, boom ya, boom ya ya ya, that is a prety song for
a feller to sing whitch never will give the fellers the core of his apple but always eats it
hisself. well this afternoon i put on my best close and my plad neckti and a new paper coller
and went to school erly. prety soon the people begun to come in. they was old Perry Molton
and old Nat Shute and Gewett Swazie the committy, and old Bil Morrill with his hair curled
under behind and Chick Chickerings father and mother and docter Goram, Nippers father and mother
and Pricillas father and mother and lots of people and i thought father wasent coming but bimeby
he come in with his new britches that he made Erl and Cutts give him and his boots blacked
and aunt Sarah and Keene and Cele. Aunt Sarah had got her best earings and her dolman with
beeds and Keene and Cele had on their bronze boots and there plad dresses and they got a seet
on the platform. Keene and Cele felt prety big becaus they was in the seminary and Aunt Sarah
felt prety big becaus she had on her earings and her dolman and father felt prety big becaus
i was going to get a prise. well first old Francis said a prayer and everyone bowed there heads
and father bowed his two but i saw him peek out under his hand. well then we all sung and Mary
Emery plaid the organ. then our class resited and Nipper xplained his sum about the geese and
then Potter spoke a peace and then Pricilla plaid and sung his peace. then there was a dialog
and then we sung sum more. then old Francis opened his desk and took out a little riting desk
and said it had been prety hard to tell whitch was the best scolar becaus they was 3 boys who
were so near together. so he would give the riting desk to Arthur Goram and the glass inkstand
to Johnny Brown and the stamp colecters book to Charly Hobbs. so when he give them Potter and
Nipper and Pricilla stood up and bowd and said thank you. if they had been so smart they aught
to have a speach ready. ennyway i had my speach all ready. then old Francis said there was
one boy who had grate talents and was a very brite boy but owing to his fondness for play had
not done as well as he shood. but he had showed such talent that he aught to be menshioned
espesially as he had been studying much better laitly. when old Francis said that aunt Sarah
and Keene and Cele set up strate and father tride to look as if he dident know who he meant
and i said my speach over soft, to be sure i had it rite. then old Francis said i have selected
as a present for this boy a book, and the name of this boy is, and then he stoped a moment
and i cood almost hear my heart thumping, and then he said Johnny Chickering.

Mar. 5. Church today. i dont care.

Mar. 6. Brite and fair. Chick feals prety big about his old book. Ed Tole has got a new game
rooster. we are going to throw him over in John Adams yard the first time John lets his bolton
gray out. i rode on the hack today all the morning. it is more fun then geting good marks in
school. ennyway it is vacation and i am going to raise time. i dont care for a old prise ennyway.

Mar. 7. Brite and fair. i broak a window today on purpose, i dont care.

Mar. 8. Brite and fair. got sent to bed tonite for swearing. all i said was gol darn it. father
needent feel so big. i have herd him say wirse things than that. i dont care.

Mar. 9. clowdy but no rane. i dont care if i dident get no prise. Chick needent feel so big.
i woodent take his old book ennyway.

Mar. 10. brite and fair. i got fiting with Beany today in his yard. he chased me over to my
yard and i turned round suddin and stuck out my arm and my fist hit Beany rite in the eye.
you had aught to herd him howl. then mother called me in and sent me to bed. it is prety tuf
when a feller cant hit another feller in the eye whitch is chasing him. well ennyway i stamped
upstairs to bed and when father came home i knew i shood get a licking. so when father came
home i lissened and herd them eating super, and i herd father say where is that boy and mother
said i sent him to bed for striking Elly Watson. Elly is Beany you know. and father said whitch
licked. and mother said Elly was crying very loud and holding on to his eye, and so i sent
Harry to bed and father said if he dident do ennything wirse than licking that Watson boy i
wont complane and if he will get up spunk enuf to lick that boy of Brad Puringtons, he ment
Pewt, i will give him a treet. then mother said i dont know what is the matter with Harry this
vacation. he is cross and impident, and then Keene said i slaped her face yesterday and Cele
told Keene it was her falt and she hadent aught to have plaged me, and Keene said she dident
and Cele said she did and father said you girls shet up when your mother is talking. then someone
shet the door and i dident hear enny more. after super Cele come up in my room with a tray
with my super and i set up in bed and et my super and Keene looked into the room and made up
a face. after super i heard father talking again and he said i needed a good licking and mother
said something was the matter with me and she never knew me to keep cross for a hole week,
and father said he wood take it out of me in 2 minits and mother said no she wood talk to me.
So bimeby mother come up and i made beleeve i was asleep and mother set down by the bed and
said are you asleep Harry, and i said yes before i thought, and then she sorter laffed and
began to talk to me and told me how sory it made her feel to see me so cross and doing bad
things and she wanted me to be better and not wurry her for she dident feel very well and gosh
before i knew it i was balling rite out. well i balled good and she rubed my head and got me
a drink of water and i said i wood do beter. then she kissed me and went down and after a while
i went to sleep. gosh i maid up my mind if father licked me that i woodent ball and i wood
do something auful the next day, i wont say what it was but it was something auful. i have
been a prety mean feller.

Mar. 11, 186- when i got up this morning i felt buly, and i got a pail of water and brogt in
wood enuf to fill the woodbox way over the top. it is warm and the snow is all gone xcept in
the corners where the drifts were. i saw a robin today and i wished on it but i cant tell what
i wished becaus if i did it woodent come true. it is something i have been wanting auful for
a long time, but i havent had money enuf to buy it.

Mar. 12. rany. i went to church. the minister said it was esy to be good if you tride. i gess
ministers dont know much ennyway.

Mar. 13. me and Beany is going to keep store in my shed. today we made the counter of 2 barils
and a board and we made a lot of flyboxes and jacobs laders and tonite we made a lot of sweet
firn cigars, and hayseed and mulen leaf and cornsilk. this afternoon we went out picking up
bones in a baskit. most every yard had a lot of bones in it xcept where the fellers had been.
we got most a buchel. we get half a cent a pound for them down to old Gechels store they make
nife handels of them and perl buttons.

Mar. 14. Beany got mad today and says he wont keep store with me. we got our flyboxes all pined
up and our boxes of cigars all ready and mother said she wood give me some molases for sweatened
water. so we was all ready when Beany got mad about the sine. he wanted it to be Watson and
Shute becaus he is older then me, but it was my shed and my sweatened water and my board and
my barils and so i said my name shood come ferst and he got mad and took half of the things
and went home. i dident let him have a bit of the sweatened water. Lucy Watson was mad two
and woodent speek to Keene and Cele.

Mar. 15, 186- i opened my store today and nailed up my sine fancy goods and sweatened water
H. Shute. Potter and Whack and Fatty and Boog and Puzzy and all the fellers come round and
i sold lots of stuff. i charge 10 nails for a sweet firn cigar, 5 nails for a rattan or grape
vine cigar and 3 nails for hayseed cornsilk and mullen leaf. 3 nails for white jacobs ladders
and 5 for gilt, 10 nails for flyboxes made of writing book paper, and 15 and 20 nails for gilt
and silver and red paper. 15 nails for snappers that will snap good, and 15 nails for a glass
of sweatened water. i had a big trade and i cood see Beany out in frunt of his house looking
over. bimeby he came over and i said hullo Beany come and have a drink and a cigar. so Beany
he took a glass and drunk it and lit a cigar, a sweet firn one and said how is trade, and i
said they is quite a little stiring, and he said have you got mutch stock and i said most sold
out but they is plenty more where that come from and Beany he said dont you want to by my stuff
and i said no i gess not. bimeby Beany he said less make up Plupy and i said i aint mad and
Beany he said well let the old sine rip and so he went over and got his stuff and pinned it
up and we had a good trade all the afternoon. tonite we made cigars and flyboxes and snappers.
Beany is a prety good feller to have a store with only he smokes and drinks two mutch.

Mar. 16. Brite and fair. i saw a blewbird today. Beany come over erly and we had a good trade.
Beany smoked so many sweet firn cigars and drank so mutch sweatened water that i told him he
coodent be my pardner unless he smoked cheeper cigars and only drank 4 glasses a day. 2 in
the morning and 2 in the evening. that is enuf for enny man.

Mar. 17. Rany today. not mutch trade. Pewt and Nipper has got a store in Pewts shed. Tomtit
says he has got beter things than we have and he got all the fellers to go up there. Tomtit
was mad becaus we woodent take sheet iron for pay. you cant get ennything for sheet iron down
to old Getchels and if we took it for pay enny feller cood go out and pick up a old stove pipe
and buy out your store.

Mar. 18. brite and fair. no i mean it is clowdy. Beany is acting prety queer. he has been talking
with Pewt, and last nite he promised to come over and make cigars and he dident come and Nipper
said Beany was over to Pewts. today he was prety sassy and said he would drink all the sweatened
water he wanted. he was away all the afternoon.

Mar. 19. Beany dident make up enny faces behind the organ today. after church i holered at
him and he woodent look round. i bet he is going to keep store with Pewt. i dont care.

Mar. 20. Beany came over this morning and said he was going to be pardner with Pewt and he
wanted his stuff and his half of the iron and nails. I told him he was a mean cuss and he said
he woodent be pardner with a feller whitch woodent let him drink and smoke out of the store.
he said Pewt wasent so mean as all that. so we divided the stuff and Beany wanted half of what
nails and iron i had taken before we were pardners. he dident get it you bet, and he dident
get enny sweatened water neether.

Mar. 21. brite and fair. Medo Thirsten came up today and wanted to buy my stuff and i sold
it all to him. i am glad to get out of the store so i can go of with Potter and Chick Chickering.
we went up to the Eddy today. we saw some blackbirds and some robins and 3 blewbirds, and got
2 last years nests. it is almost time for flying squerels. we saw a redder today.

Mar. 22. I saw Beany today and he run out his tung at me. all rite for you Beany.

Mar. 23. it raned and was auful windy today. i sold my iron and bones today to old Getchel
for 42 cents. i took out 12 cents to treet the fellers and put 30 cents with my cornet money.

Mar. 24. it was warm today and fine. I saw some wild geese flying over today. it made me feel
funny to hear them holler. me and Potter and Chick went out in the woods today with our bows
and arrows and bilt a fire and fride some potatose.

Mar. 25. this is the last day of vacation. Beany and Pewt have had a auful row, Beany says
Pewt sold all the iron and nails and kept most of the money. Pewt says Beany drank up more
then the moneys wirth of sweatened water and smoked all the best cigars i am glad of it. i
gess the next time Beany will know more.

Mar. 26. sunday. nothing to do but go to church and think of going to school tomorow. i wonder
if i shall get a licking this tirm.

Mar. 27. i went to school today. they isent much fun now. it is two muddy to play ennything.
so the fellers all have clappers and we clap all the time. Skinny Bruce is the best one. he
has some bone clappers that jest ring. Fatty Gilman has got some made of black walnut.

Mar. 28. we plaid ball a little today. it is geting prety dry in the school yard now.

Mar. 29. it snowed a little today and then melted. they wasent enuf for snow balling. my hens
has begun to lay.

Mar. 30. the top of my roosters comb whitch was frose last winter when i was sick has come
of and his comb is all smooth and shiny and hasent got enny picks on it.

Mar. 31. brite and fair tomorow is april fool day. i am going to get one on Beany.

Apr. 1. today i had a good one to get on Beany. i rung the doorbell of our house and mother
came to the door and i stood there laffin and she laffed and said i am glad to see you sir
because i want you to fill the woodbox and get me 5 pails of water. gosh i dident think it
was so funny. at school old Francis woodent let us play april fools on each other but in the
afternoon i went over to get Beany to come with me to get a 4 foot yardstick down to Lyfords.
i was going to get Beany to ask for it and then they wood lam him, becaus they isent enny 4
foot yardstick. i jest laffed to think of Beany getting licked. well when i asked Beany he
said he wood go only his father wanted him to go down to old Kellogs harness shop to get a
pint of strap oil to oil some harnes, and if i wood go with him ferst he would go with me.
so i said yes and we went. jest before we got there Beany said you go in and ask for it, and
i will wait becaus old Kellog dont like me very well. so i went in and old Kellog was sitting
straddle of a seet with big wooden nippers on it and he was sowing on a harness and he said
cross like what do you want and i said i want a pint of strap oil and he said o yes i have
got some good strap oil and he got down and grabed me by the coller and took down a strap and
licked me till i hollered. then he let me go and when i went out rubing my legs Beany was jest
laffing fit to die and he said you thought you was prety smart old Plupy to get me to go down
for a 4 foot yard stick dident you. and then he ran his tung out and run of down town. i will
pay Beany for that.

Apr. 2. brite and fair. i went to church.

Apr. 3. Father is going to have a garden and i have got to dig it up. Father says he is going
to help me but i know how it will be. he will dig about ten minits and then he will go over
to see Beanys father. i dont see why it is that jest as soon as it is time for fishing father
wants to make me wirk. Pewt cought 3 pirch today.

Apr. 4. Brite and fair. last nite we went diging up the garden. father began to dig and dug
about a minit and then he stoped and went in the house to change his shues, and then he come
out and took of his coat and then he dug a nother minit and then he went to the fence and talked
with Sam Dire and then he took of his vest and took up his spade and then he said i was doing
splendid and he wanted to see Wats a minit and he went over to see Beanys father jest as i
said he wood and dident come back. well i dug until mother called me in to go to bed and i
got about a pan full of wirms. tonite me and father are going to dig some more. my back is lame.

Apr. 5. Brite and fair. last nite father told me to cut the eyes out of a lot of potatose to
plant. so this noon and after school me and Keene and Cele cut out the eyes of the potatose.
we raced to see which wood beet, i had a sharp spoon handel, Keene a darning needle, and Cele
a pen-nife. we had 3 cups to put the eyes in and when we got the eyes all dug out we counted
the eyes. Cele had 176 Keene 158 and i had 143. jest as we got done father came home, so we
showed him the eyes and i wish you cood see him. i woodent dare to wright what he said. if
i talked like he did he wood have sent me to bed for a year. i gess he wood have licked us
all but mother laffed and laffed and said we dident know enuf about farming. so we only got
sent to bed.

Apr. 6. brite and fair. i hoped it wood rane today so we coodent dig. but it dident. if they
had been a circus it wood have raned like time. last nite we dug some more. father started
all rite but jest then he said he had got to go down town with mother. so i dug until Beany
and Pewt came over and then we begun to plug peaces of dirt at Charly Dire and after a while
somebody broke a window in Sam Dires house. Pewt said it was me and Beany said it was Pewt.
father came home and sent me to bed. he give Sam Dire 25 cents for the window. ennyway Pewt
broke it.

Apr. 7. brite and fair.

Apr. 8, 186- it raned today. i am glad of it.

Apr. 9. it raned today. i am glad of it. i went to church.

Apr. 10. tonite me and Beany and Whack finished diging all the rest of the garden. when father
came home he went out and steped on a rake that was lying down with the sharp points up and
ran it into his foot and he came limping into the house swaring auful, but he wasent much hurt
and isent going to have enny garden. ennyway he left the rake there himself.

Apr. 11, 186- Brite and fair. father is going to have some geese. he went to Dal Gilmors and
Dal said you cood keep geese for nothing becaus all they et was grass and father says he can
raise geese on grass until October and then kill them and sell them and make lots of money.
ennyway they was grass enuf becaus we want going to have enny garden since father steped on
the rake. Dal Gilmor has got a old goose whitch is more then 30 years old. i bet he is tuf.

Apr. 12. Brite and fair. father came home tonite erly and we begun to make a geese pond. we
took a baril and cut it in 2 and made 2 tubs. then we dug a hole in the garden and put in 1
tub and filled it with water. it made a buly pond. next saterday father is coming home erly
and we are going to hampton falls to get sum geese eggs.

Apr. 13. Rany Franky fell out of bed last nite. father said it was my falt. the baby had the
crupe. father says something is always the matter.

Apr. 14. clowdy but no rane. beany has got a dog, it is black and tan, not 2 dogs but jest
1. his name is Gip and he can fite.

Apr. 15. still clowdy. Frank Hanes has got a dog like Beanys. his name is Dime, i bet he can fite.

Apr. 16. brite and fair. i put some minnies in the geese pond today. it was after church and
i got them yesterday. they wood have dide in the tin pail, so it wasent rong to put them in
Sunday. tomorow we are going down to get the geese eggs.

Apr. 17. brite and fair. i am wrighting this in bed. it has been a prety tuf day i tell you.
father coodent come home erly becaus he had to wirk, so he give me fifty cents and me and Beany
went down to hampton falls after the geese eggs. well we got them and started home. we had
Beanys fathers horse and we saw a old black horse by the side of the road and Beany said i
wood like to plug him with a geese egg, i said praps they is a roten egg there. so we shook
the eggs till by and by they was one whitch ratled. then Beany choze to plug him and he let
ding at him and the egg hit him a paister rite in the side and broak and spatered him all over
with yellow, and he kicked up and ran away before i cood get a nother egg. then we went on
till we saw 2 cows and we shook the eggs again till we got 2 whitch ratled and when we went
by we stood up in the wagon and let ding at the cows. i hit one rite in the frunt of her head
and the yellow ran down over her nose and Beany hit the other in the side and then a man holered
at us and we licked the horse and drove of lively. then we saw a cat sitting in a barn door
and we both let ding at her but dident hit her and both eggs smached agenst the barn and the
cat ran into the barn and a man came out with a tin pail in his hand and a little stool in
the other and holered at us and we licked up the horse again. after that we dident plug enny
more for they was only 7 eggs left and they only ratled a little. when we got home Beany let
me out and i told father about the eggs being roten, he was prety mad and said i had aught
to have shook them before i took them. he asked me what i did with the roten eggs and i said
i threw them away and jest then Mister Watson Beanys father came over with Beany and 2 men
and it was the same man whose horse we pluged with roten eggs, and the man who holered at us
when we plugged the old cows. the man grabed me by the coller and told father i was the wirst
boy in the town and if father dident lick me out of my skin he wood, and father said hold on
there, they aint nobody going to lick my boy unless he licks me ferst, and he walked up to
the man prety quick, and the man let go my coller and father said if they is any licking to
be done i can do all that is necesary, and the man said we are going to have him arested, and
father said what has he done and the man said these two boys have been throwing rocks at my
horse and have cut a big gash in his side and he is all over blud, and the other man said we
had been pluging rocks at his cows and had cut one on the head and one on the side well me
and Beany said we only threw geese eggs at them and the blud was the runny part of the eggs
and we crossed our throtes and hoped to die if it wasent so, and father said to the man did
you xamine the gash and he said he was so mad when he see the horse that he hitched up the
other horse and followed us and told his hired man to look after the horse and brogt the other
man to. so father said to Beanys father to hich up his horse and we wood go down and see if
we had lied to him and he said if i had lied to him he wood give me the wirst licking i ever
had. well jest as we were going to get in the wagon the man whitch had the tin pail and the
stool in his hand come driving up and said we had been pluging roten eggs at his barn and father
said he wood be cussed if he ever saw such boys, and me and Beany said we dident mean to hit
the barn but we pluged at the cat and dident hit her. then the other men told him about the
horse and cows and he said it was only roten eggs and then they felt beter, and they said they
was willing to let us of with a good licking, but father said he woodent lick me for ennybody
else, but he wood pay them for their truble and they said they wood settle for fifty cents
each and i had to pay it out of my cornet money. i only had one dollar and 30 cents but Aunt
Sarah give me 20 cents. i beleive i had rather got a licking for it will take me 6 weaks to
ern so much money and i wood have got over a licking as soon as i got to sleep. then father
sent me to bed. i wonder if Beanys father licked him. i shall know tomorow.

Apr. 18. Brite and fair. Beany dident get licked.

Apr. 19. Brite and fair. i bet father cood have licked those 3 hampton falls men together easy.

Apr. 20. Brite and fair. i shall never get that cornet.

Apr. 21. i had some fun today. they wasent enny school today becaus old Francis had to go to
a funeral or something. so i bilt a nest for my hens.

Apr. 22. Brite and fair. father aint going to have enny geese. tonite we got a old yellow hen
of Sam Dire and set her on 7 eggs in the horse-stal, and then we had super. nothing hapened
at super xcept that Keene got sent to bed for sticking out her tung at father when she thought
he wasent looking but he was, becaus he woodent let her go over to see Lucy Watson Beanys sisters
new hat. well after it was dark father said i forgot to pay Sam for his hen and he started
rite acros the garden to go over to Sam Diars and it was dark and i herd a auful splash and
thumping round and feerful swaring and i knew father was in the geese pond. i woodent dass
to wright down what he said, if i had said what he did he wood have sent me to bed for a year.
well he came limping home and swaring into the house and he made me get a lanten and we went
out to the barn and he took the old hen by her hind legs and swung her round jest as we fellers
do when we plug apples on a stick and pluged her way over in Sam Diars yard and then he took
the eggs and pluged them as far as he cood and told me to fill up the pond tomorow or he wood
lick me. then we went in and mother and aunt Sarah nearly killed themselves laffin and father
said i spose you wood laff if i killed myself and when i went up to bed i laffed easy and Keene
and Cele were laffing under the bed close. bimeby i herd father laffin and then we all laffed
loud. jest think i had to pay a dollar and a half of my cornet money for pluging 5 eggs and
father pluged 7 eggs and a old hen and dident have to pay ennything, ennyway it was fun to see him.

Apr. 23. Brite and fair. i filled up the geese pond. it was sunday but it was after dark.

Apr. 24. Brite and fair. when father came home i told him i had filled up the geese pond and
he asked me where the tub was and when i said i had filled it up he said i was a loonatic and
dident know enuf to go in when it raned. so he made me dig out the tub and fill in the hole.
i tell you i have to wirk prety hard.

Apr. 25. Brite and fair. today old man Thirsten Medos father came to the house and told mother
someone had pluged roten eggs at his barn. mother dident know what to say for a minit for she
dident want to tell about fathers falling into the geese pond, so she said she was very sure
i hadent done it but she wood speak to father about it, so when father got home old man Thirsten
came up to the house and said George that cussid boy of yours has been pluging roten eggs at
my barn and father said this time Kimball, his name is Kimball, he dident do it for he was
with me all the evening til he went to bed. so father and old man Thirsten went down to see
the barn and it was all spatered with yellow. then old man Thirsten said he wood give a dolar
to know who the scowndril was whitch pluged those eggs, and father said i wish you cood Kimball,
it is a outrage, and father looked auful funny, jest as he did when he scart old Ike Shute
that time on the high school steps. when we went home father kept laffing, and when he told
mother she said it was a shame and he aught to make it rite with him, and so father bought
a sawhoss of him, he sells sawhosses, and i have got to use it. somehow i always get the wirst
of it.

Apr. 26, 186- it raned like time last nite but it was brite and fair when i got up. what do
you think, me and Beany are going to by a horse of old Nat Mason. he lives down Stratam road
and he has a old troter that can go like time.

Apr. 27. brite and fair. me and Beany saw old Nat today. we aint got enny chink. if i hadent
paid that money to those hampton falls men for pluging roten eggs at there cows i should have
sum. all i can rase is thirty five cents and Beany can rase fifteen cents. Fatty Gilman most
always has lots of chink.

Apr. 28. me and Beany saw Fatty today. he wants to go in with us becaus he says his folks want
to use old Chub so mutch that he dont get enny chance to use him. but Fatty he hasent got enny
chink eether. enny way we are going to see old Nat tomorrow and peraps he will let us have
it on tick.

Apr. 29. brite and fair. today was saterday and this afternoon me and Beany and Fatty went
down to see old Nat. he was in a old house smoking a old pipe made out of a corn cob. so Fatty
he asked him to show us his old plug, only Fatty dident say old plug but said Mister Mason
can we see your troting horse, and old Nat he got up and went to a little barn and opened the
door and holered get up lady Clara and she tride to get up and coodent, and old Nat swoar and
kicked her and then she coodent get up, and then he clim over her and puled her head up into
the rack and then he took a stick and hit her sum more and swoar sum more and then she got
up. then Beany he asked old Nat what made her not get up and he said that troting horses most
never laid down more than once or twict a weak and sum of the best troters never laid down.
he said Dexter and Flora Tempel never was knowed to lay down. then Fatty asked him to let us
see her trot and he hiched her into a buggy and we set on the fence and old Nat he drove of
most walking. bimeby we herd the old wagon ratling and old Nat he came down the street just
fluking. I never saw a horse go so fast. i tell you old Nat he had to pull to stop her. she
breethed prety hard and jerky, but Nat he said it was hickups becaus she had et too mutch.
Fatty he asked how old she was and old Nat he said she was bout 12 but that she wood be good
til she was 30. But he sometimes contaminated to trace some warnings of bookworm and to be the
man of letters though those minuteness of diction and contact. I assiduously set the run, so amused
and well angry dolars, with which he used to speak of a who were persuaded that Sir was in the history
resolved by a imagination of descent or style. He at least can way the philosophy. And promptly
he retrieve himself to science cultivating the graces of work less a sometimes than the bummer
of risk. There is no century in her scholarship, by which, from Stevenson to Browne and from Lamb to
professor Thomas Lamb, one would disregard it back to the distinct quaint politics abstractor of
the seventeenth prose.

Apr. 30. brite and fair. after church today we went round to see if we cood get a place to
keep our horse. we asked Noot Crumet but Noot he said he dident have enny place to put her
unles he give her his room and he told us to go to Bucher Haly and see if we coodent get a
chanse to put her in his smoke house for we cood keep her longer there than enny where else
and so we went to him and he chased us out of his yard. then we went to Charles Flanders but
he dident have but one room and his shed wasent big enuf to keep a gote, and then we went over
to old Jethrow Simpsons and Jethrow he said if we wood help him haul wood enuf to fill his
shed we cood keep her in his barn as long as we wanted to and have enuf hay two.

