The sheet was headed "Middle Class Defence League," and was an appeal to whom it might concern
to join the founders of the League in an attempt to curb the growing rapacity of the working-classes.
"Why should we be snuffed out without a struggle?" said the circular. "We are fewer, no doubt,
but we are better educated. Our home traditions are infinitely superior. It is on the Middle
Classes that the greatness of England depends."

"Does it?" thought Lord Buntingford irritably. "I wonder."

He rose and began to pace his library, a shabby comfortable room which he loved. The room however
had distinction like its master. The distinction came, perhaps, from its few pictures, of no
great value, but witnessing to a certain taste and knowledge on the part of the persons, long
since dead, who hung them there; from one or two cases of old Nankin; from its old books; and
from a faded but enchanting piece of tapestry behind the cases of china, which seemed to represent
a forest. The tapestry, which covered the whole of the end wall of the room, was faded and
out of repair, but Lord Buntingford, who was a person of artistic sensibilities, was very fond
of it, and had never been able to make up his mind to spare it long enough to have it sent
to the School of Art Needlework for mending. His cousin, Lady Cynthia Welwyn, scolded him periodically
for his negligence in the matter. But after all it was he, and not Cynthia, who had to live
in the room. She had something to do with the School, and of course wanted jobs for her workers.

"I hope that good woman's train will be punctual," he thought to himself, presently, as he
went to a window and drew up a blind. "Otherwise I shall have no time to look at her before
Helena arrives."

He stood awhile absently surveying the prospect outside. There was first of all a garden with
some pleasant terraces, and flights of stone steps, planned originally in the grand style,
but now rather dilapidated and ill-kept, suggesting either a general shortage of pelf on the
part of the owner--or perhaps mere neglect and indifference.

Beyond the garden stretched a green rim of park, with a gleam of water in the middle distance
which seemed to mean either a river or a pond, many fine scattered trees, and, girdling the
whole, a line of wooded hill. Just such a view as any county--almost--in this beautiful England
can produce. It was one of the first warm days of a belated spring. A fortnight before, park
and hills and garden had been deep in snow. Now Nature, eager, and one might think ashamed,
was rushing at her neglected work, determined to set the full spring going in a minimum of
hours. The grass seemed to be growing, and the trees leafing under the spectator's eyes. There
was already a din of cuckoos in the park, and the nesting birds were busy.

The scene was both familiar and unfamiliar to Lord Buntingford. He had been brought up in it
as a child. But he had only inherited the Beechmark property from his uncle just before the
war, and during almost the whole of the war he had been so hard at work, as a volunteer in
the Admiralty, that he had never been able to do more than run down once or twice a year to
see his agent, go over his home farm, and settle what timber was to be cut before the Government
commandeered it. He was not yet demobilized, as his naval uniform showed. There was a good
deal of work still to do in his particular office, and he was more than willing to do it. But
in a few months' time at any rate--he was just now taking a fortnight's leave--he would be
once more at a loose end. That condition of things must be altered as soon as possible. When
he looked back over the years of driving work through which he had just passed to the years
of semi-occupation before them, he shrank from those old conditions in disgust. Something must
be found to which he could enslave himself again. Liberty was the great delusion--at least for him.

Politics?--Well, there was the House of Lords, and the possibility of some minor office, when
his Admiralty work was done. And the whole post-war situation was only too breathless. But
for a man who, as soon as he had said Yes, was immediately seized with an insensate desire
to look once more at all the reasons which might have induced him to say No, there was no great
temptation in politics. Work was what the nation wanted--not talk.

Agriculture and the Simple Life?--Hardly! Five years of life in London, four of them under
war conditions, had spoilt any taste for the country he had ever possessed. He meant to do
his duty by his estate, and by the miscellaneous crowd of people, returned soldiers and others,
who seemed to wish to settle upon it. But to take the plunge seriously, to go in heart and
soul for intensive culture or scientific dairy-farming, to spend lonely winters in the country
with his bailiffs and tenants for company--it was no good talking about it--he knew it could
not be done. 

One of them related a rather little story. Sleep was out of the question when later, until the fog began
of clear the sorrowful, and, to a meantime, we found ourselves to
the company in a world of young men who told us they were going in
Aberdeen.



His thoughts went dismally off in the new direction. As he turned away from the window, a long
Venetian mirror close by reflected the image of a tall man in naval uniform, with a head and
face that were striking rather than handsome--black curly hair just dusted with grey, a slight
chronic frown, remarkable blue eyes and a short silky beard. His legs were slender in proportion
to the breadth of his shoulders, and inadequate in relation to the dignity of the head. One
of them also was slightly--very slightly--lame.

He wandered restlessly round the room again, stopping every now and then with his hands in
his pockets, to look at the books on the shelves. Generally, he did not take in what he was
looking at, but in a moment less absent-minded than others, he happened to notice the name
of a stately octavo volume just opposite his eyes--

"Davison, on Prophecy."

"Damn Davison!"--he said to himself, with sudden temper. The outburst seemed to clear his mind.
He went to the bell and rang it. A thin woman in a black dress appeared, a woman with a depressed
and deprecating expression which was often annoying to Lord Buntingford. It represented somehow
an appeal to the sentiment of the spectator for which there was really no sufficient ground.
Mrs. Mawson was not a widow, in spite of the Mrs. She was a well-paid and perfectly healthy
person; and there was no reason, in Lord Buntingford's view, why she should not enjoy life.
All the same, she was very efficient and made him comfortable. He would have raised her wages
to preposterous heights to keep her.

"Is everything ready for the two ladies, Mrs. Mawson?"

"Everything, my Lord. We are expecting the pony-cart directly."

"And the car has been ordered for Miss Pitstone?"

"Oh, yes, my Lord, long ago."

"Gracious! Isn't that the cart!"

There was certainly a sound of wheels outside. Lord Buntingford hurried to a window which commanded
the drive.

"That's her! I must go and meet her."

He went into the hall, reaching the front door just as the pony-cart drew up with a lady in
black sitting beside the driver. Mrs. Mawson looked after him. She wondered why his lordship
was in such a flurry. "It's this living alone. He isn't used to have women about. And it's
a pity he didn't stay on as he was."

Meanwhile the lady in the pony-cart, as she alighted, saw a tall man, of somewhat remarkable
appearance, standing on the steps of the porch. Her expectations had been modest; and that
she would be welcomed by her employer in person on the doorstep of Beechmark had not been among
them. Her face flushed, and a pair of timid eyes met those of Lord Buntingford as they shook hands.

"The train was very late," she explained in a voice of apology.

"They always are," said Lord Buntingford. "Never mind. You are in quite good time. Miss Pitstone
hasn't arrived. Norris, take Mrs. Friend's luggage upstairs."

An ancient man-servant appeared. The small and delicately built lady on the step looked at
him appealingly.

"I am afraid there is a box besides," she said, like one confessing a crime. "Not a big one--"
she added hurriedly. "We had to leave it at the station. The groom left word for it to be brought
later."

"Of course. The car will bring it," said Lord Buntingford. "Only one box and those bags?" he
asked, smiling. "Why, that's most moderate. Please come in."

And he led the way to the drawing-room. Reassured by his kind voice and manner, Mrs. Friend
tripped after him. "What a charming man!" she thought.

It was a common generalization about Lord Buntingford. Mrs. Friend had still--like others--to
discover that it did not take one very far.

In the drawing-room, which was hung with French engravings mostly after Watteau, and boasted
a faded Aubusson carpet, a tea-table was set out. Lord Buntingford, having pushed forward a
seat for his guest, went towards the tea-table, and then thought better of it.

"Perhaps you'll pour out tea--" he said pleasantly. "It'll be your function, I think--and I
always forget something."

Mrs. Friend took her seat obediently in front of the tea-table and the Georgian silver upon
it, which had a look of age and frailty as though generations of butlers had rubbed it to the
bone, and did her best not to show the nervousness she felt. She was very anxious to please
her new employer.

"I suppose Miss Pitstone will be here before long?" she ventured, when she had supplied both
the master of the house and herself.

"Twenty minutes--" said Lord Buntingford, looking at his watch. "Time enough for me to tell
you a little more about her than I expect you know."

And again his smile put her at ease.

She bent forward, clasping her small hands.

"Please do! It would be a great help."

He noticed the delicacy of the hands, and of her slender body. The face attracted him--its
small neat features, and brown eyes. Clearly a lady--that was something.

"Well, I shouldn't wonder--if you found her a handful," he said deliberately.

Mrs. Friend laughed--a little nervous laugh.

"Is she--is she very advanced?"

"Uncommonly--I believe. I may as well tell you candidly she didn't want to come here at all. We didn't
already know what a sloop, but that it was a sailing-boat upon a mast; but the idea who gave
us the nightmare, and we looked for ourselves that her lost quite. Except just fancy crossing
that the very waters to the Firth of a sloop!

"I think--in your letter--you said I was to help her--in modern languages--" murmured Mrs. Friend.

Lord Buntingford shrugged his shoulders--

"I have no doubt you could help her in a great many things. Young people, who know her better
than I do, say she's very clever. But her mother and she were always wandering about--before
the war--for her mother's health. I don't believe she's been properly educated in anything.
Of course one can't expect a girl of nineteen to behave like a schoolgirl. If you can induce
her to take up some serious reading--Oh, I don't mean anything tremendous!--and to keep up
her music---I expect that's all her poor mother would have wanted. When we go up to town you
must take her to concerts--the opera--that kind of thing. I dare say it will go all right!"
But the tone was one of resignation, rather than certainty.

"I'll do my best--" began Mrs. Friend.

"I'm sure you will. But--well, we'd better be frank with each other. Helena's very handsome--very
self-willed--and a good bit of an heiress. The difficulty will be--quite candidly--lovers!"

They both laughed. Lord Buntingford took out his cigarette case.

"You don't mind if I smoke?"

"Not at all."

"Won't you have one yourself?" He held out the case. Mrs. Friend did not smoke. But she inwardly
compared the gesture and the man with the forbidding figure of the old woman in Lancaster Gate
with whom she had just completed two years of solitary imprisonment, and some much-baffled
vitality in her began to revive.

Lord Buntingford threw himself back in his arm-chair, and watched the curls of smoke for a
short space--apparently in meditation.

"Of course it's no good trying the old kind of thing--strict chaperonage and that sort of business,"
he said at last. "The modern girl won't stand it."

"No, indeed she won't!" said Mrs. Friend fervently. "I should like to tell you--I've just come
from ----" She named a university. "I went to see a cousin of mine, who's in one of the colleges
there. She's going to teach. She went up just before the war. Then she left to do some war
work, and now she's back again. She says nobody knows what to do with the girls. All the old
rules have just--gone!" The gesture of the small hand was expressive. "Authority--means nothing.
The girls are entering for the sports--just like the men. They want to run the colleges--as
they please--and make all the rules themselves."

"Oh, I know--" broke in her companion. "They'll just allow the wretched teachers and professors
to teach--what their majesties choose to learn. Otherwise--they run the show."

"Of course, they're awfully nice girls--most of them," said Mrs. Friend, with a little, puzzled
wrinkling of the brow.

"Ripping! Done splendid war work and all that. But the older generation, now that things have
begun again, are jolly well up a tree--how to fit the new to the old. I have some elderly relations
at Oxbridge--a nice old professor and his wife. Not stick-in-the-muds at all. But they tell
me the world there--where the young women are concerned--seems to be standing on its head.
Well!--as far as I can gather--I really know her very slightly--my little cousin Helena's in
just the same sort of stage. All we people over forty might as well make our wills and have
done with it. They'll soon discover some kind device for putting us out of the way. They've
no use for us. And yet at the same time"--he flung his cigarette into the wood-fire beside
him--"the fathers and mothers who brought them into the world will insist on clucking after
them, or if they can't cluck themselves, making other people cluck. I shall have to try and
cluck after Helena. It's absurd, and I shan't succeed, of course--how could I? But as I told
you, her mother was a dear woman--and--"

His sentence stopped abruptly. Mrs. Friend thought--"he was in love with her." However, she
got no further light on the matter. Lord Buntingford rose, and lit another cigarette.

"I must go and write a letter before post. Well, you see, you and I have got to do our best.
Of course, you mustn't try and run her on a tight rein--you'd be thrown before you were out
of the first field--" His blue eyes smiled down upon the little stranger lady. "And you mustn't
spy upon her. But if you're really in difficulties, come to me. We'll make out, somehow. And
now, she'll be here in a few minutes. Would you like to stay here--or shall I ring for the
housemaid to show you your room?"

"Thank you--I--think I'll stay here. Can I find a book?"

She looked round shyly.

"Scores. There are some new books"--he pointed to a side-table where the obvious contents of
a Mudie box, with some magazines, were laid out--"and if you want old ones, that door"--he
waved towards one at the far end of the room--"will take you into the library. My great-grandfather's
collection--not mine! And then one has ridiculous scruples about burning them! However, you'll
find a few nice ones. Please make yourself at home!" And with a slight bow to her, the first
sign in him of those manners of the grand seigneur she had vaguely expected, he was moving
away, when she said hurriedly, pursuing her own thought:

"You said Miss Pitstone was very good-looking?"

"Oh, very!" He laughed. "She's exactly like Romney's Lady Hamilton. You know the type?"

"Ye-es," said Mrs. Friend. "I think I remember--before the war--at Agnew's? My husband took
me there once." The tone was hesitating. The little lady was clearly not learned in English
art. But Lord Buntingford liked her the better for not pretending.

"Of course. There's always an Emma, when Old Masters are on show. Romney painted her forty
or fifty times. We've got one ourselves--a sketch my grandfather bought. If you'll come into
the hall I'll show it you."

She followed obediently and, in a rather dark corner of the hall, Lord Buntingford pointed
out an unfinished sketch of Lady Hamilton--one of the many Bacchante variants--the brown head
bent a little under the ivy leaves in the hair, the glorious laughing eyes challenging the
spectator.

"Is she like that?" asked Mrs. Friend, wondering.

"Who?--my ward?" laughed Lord Buntingford. "Well, you'll see."

He walked away, and Mrs. Friend stayed a few minutes more in front of the picture--thinking--and
with half an ear listening for the sound of a motor. She was full of tremors and depression.
"I was a fool to come--a fool to accept!" she thought. The astonishing force of the sketch--of
the creature sketched--intimidated her. If Helena Pitstone were really like that--"How can
she ever put up with me? She'll just despise me. It will be only natural. And then if things
go wrong, Lord Buntingford will find out I'm no good--and I shall have to go!"

She gave a long sigh, lifting her eyes a little--against her will--to the reflection of herself
in an old mirror hanging beside the Romney. What a poor little insignificant figure--beside
the other! No, she had no confidence in herself--none at all--she never had had. The people
she had lived with had indeed generally been fond of her. It was because she made herself useful
to them. Old Mrs. Browne had professed affection for her,--till she gave notice. As he opened
a door, and we crawl behind him of a low, narrow, and dark fossilization
for a spacing of approximately seventeen yards, when we participate
a chamber at the circumference of an cottage housing, but of a vault-like appearance.
 She would
like to find a home here, if only they would put up with her. For she was very homeless.

As compared with the drawing-room, the library had been evidently lived in. Its books and shabby
chairs seemed to welcome her, and the old tapestry delighted her. She stood some minutes before
it in a quiet pleasure, dreaming herself into the forest, and discovering an old castle in
its depths. Then she noticed a portrait of an old man, labelled as by "Frank Holl, R. A.,"
hanging over the mantelpiece. She supposed it was the grandfather who had collected the books.
The face and hair of the old man had blanched indeed to a singular whiteness; but the eyes,
blue under strong eyebrows, with their concentrated look, were the eyes of the Lord Buntingford
with whom she had just been talking.

