LEGENDS OF THE WAILUKU

SECOND EDITION

Copyright 1920-1921 by THE CHARLES R. FRAZIER COMPANY HONOLULU

Paradise of the Pacific Print

LEGENDS

OF THE

WAILUKU

As told by old Hawaiians and done into the English tongue by Charlotte Hapai

Illustrated by Will Herwig

    To remember our happy
    hours of story-telling,
    this printed fragment
    is in gratitude dedicated
    to my grandmother,
    Harriet Kamakanoenoe Hapai.

THE WAILUKU.

Fed from the great watershed of Hawaii far up the densely wooded flanks of Mauna Loa and Mauna
Kea--often snow-capped in winter--the Wailuku River roars through the very center of Hilo,
principal town of the Island of Hawaii.

There are many vague stories as to why the Wailuku River was so named. In the Hawaiian tongue
Wailuku means literally "destroying water."

In olden times before there were bridges and other safeguards the river wrought considerable
damage to property and during the rainy season it took its toll of human lives. Legends connected
with the Wailuku tend to confirm the belief that it was named for its violent habits.

Long ago, so one legend goes, the much dreaded Kuna (dragon) blocked the gorge below Rainbow
Falls with intent to back the waters up and drown the goddess Hina, who dwelt in the great
cave for which the falls form a curtain. How her son, the demi-god Maui, came to the rescue,
saved his mother, and finally hunted Kuna from his lair up the river and slew him, is told
in the legend, "The Last of Kuna."

When Paoa, a very powerful god from Tahiti, came to visit Hawaii he built a grass hut and made
his home on the long, low rock--now known as Maui's canoe--in the Wailuku near its mouth.

Local gods viewed this selection of a homesite as foolhardy, but Paoa was unaware of the sudden
and rapid rise the river made when heavy rains and cloud-bursts loosed their torrents high
upon the slopes of Mauna Kea. Hina, goddess of the river, warned the visitor of his danger
and told him how the angry waters would sweep everything before them. In the legend, "The Coming
of Paoa," you will find his answer.

In those days there must have been much more water in the river than there is today, for a
certain amount is now diverted above Rainbow Falls for water power.

In spite of the decreased volume the river is still very violent and treacherous. At high water
big boulders are clumsily rolled down stream and when the river is unusually high even trees
are torn from the banks and carried out to sea.

So the Wailuku still lives up to its name, Destroying Water.

HOW HILO WAS NAMED.

King Kamehameha the Great was a very famous warrior. His chief ambition, which he lived to
realize, was to become sole ruler of all the Hawaiian Islands. Naturally he had numerous enemies,
and he never remained long in one place for fear some of them might learn of his whereabouts
and attack him.

One time, when he was encamped near the mouth of the Wailuku, he planned a quiet visit to what
is now known as Reed's Island, where lived a particular friend of his. As this friend was a
powerful chief, Kamehameha felt safe in going to him without his usual warrior bodyguard.

Before leaving camp he called his servants to him and told them to stand watch over his canoe,
that it might not be stolen or carried away by the tide. This they promised faithfully to do.

As time passed and the king did not return or send word to his servants they grew uneasy about
him. Perhaps he might have been ambushed, they reasoned; or more likely fallen into one of
the caverns formed by ancient lava flows and which are often treacherously concealed by a thin,
brittle crust that a man of Kamehameha's bulk might easily break through. Much as they feared
for the king's safety, the servants dared not leave the canoe unguarded. They were in a quandary
indeed.

"I know what we can do!" cried one of the men. "We can make a rope of ti leaves and tie the
canoe so it cannot drift away."

"Make a rope," queried another, "how can we do that?"

"Simple enough," answered the first speaker. "I'll show you. Take the ti leaves and fasten
them together. First you make two chains of leaves--like this--and then twist each one. When
you place them together they will naturally twine about each other and you have a very strong
rope. Such twisting is called hilo."

"I've never seen it done," admitted his fellow sentry, "but it looks very simple."

"And so it is," went on the resourceful one, as he rapidly twisted the ti leaves into serviceable
ropes. "Now," he concluded, "these are plenty long enough. Let us make the canoe fast to the
beach."

And taking their ropes to the canoe they tied it securely to that point of land--known to the
old Hawaiians as Kaipaaloa--near the mouth of the river where the lighthouse stands today.
Then they set out in search of the king.

Only a short way up the river they met Kamehameha returning unharmed. Ignoring the spirit of
their intent in absenting themselves from their post of duty, the king demanded:

"But where is my canoe? What have you done with my canoe? You promised to guard it. By now
it may have drifted out to sea or been stolen!"

"We tied it with ti ropes," answered the servant who had woven them.

"Ti ropes!" roared his majesty. "Why, no one here knows how to make ropes like that. The only
place they do know is at Waipio. How did you learn?"

"I came to you from there," the man answered.

"Oh, and that is where you learned. Well and good. Hereafter this place shall be called Hilo."

And so it has been. The town at the mouth of the Wailuku has since that day been known by the
Hawaiian word meaning "to twist."

MAUI CONQUERS THE SUN.

Hina, the goddess who in the long ago made her home in the great cave beneath Rainbow Falls,
was especially gifted in the art of tapa making. So wonderfully artistic and fine were the
tapas of Hina that people journeyed from all parts of the Island to view them and to covet.
Even across the mighty shoulders of Mauna Loa from Kona and Kailua and down the rugged Hamakua
Coast from Waipio they came, and from the other islands as well.

It was hard, laboring over the tapa every day, and especially hunting for the olona which Hina
sometimes used. But she used also the bark of the mamake and wauke trees, which were more plentiful
and very good for tapa.

Interested though he was in the manufacture and decoration of this beautiful paper-cloth, Hina's
son, the demi-god Maui, held aloof from the work. In the making of tapa man's hand was tabu,
yet he could not forbear an occasional suggestion when his mother created mystic designs for
decoration of her work.

After the tapa was made it had to be placed for the Sun to dry, but by the time Hina would
reach the drying frames, the Sun was far up in the sky. All too soon long shadows would creep
across the stream below Rainbow Falls, warning her that night approached and that it was time
to take in her tapa.

Quite often the dyes with which the designs were painted on the tapa were not entirely dry
when the tapa was taken in, and many fine pieces were smeared and ruined. Days were short in
the narrow walled-in river gorge and the Sun shone directly on the tapa for only a few hours,
passing then beyond the high western wall, and gloom would settle about the cave, growing deeper
with oncoming night.

It grieved Maui to see his mother's tapa so often spoiled, so he besought the Sun to go more
slowly. For one or two days he did moderate his pace and Hina rejoiced in the lovely tapas
she was able to make. But soon the heedless Sun hurried past again as fast as ever, entirely
forgetting his promise to Maui.

So Maui determined to exact a lasting agreement with the Sun, and set out in his canoe for
Maui, the Island which bears his name and on which is situated Haleakala, today the greatest
extinct crater in the world and in olden time the Home of the Sun. Maui hoped to catch him there.

As Maui reached the eastern rim of Haleakala the Sun was just disappearing over the other side;
but Maui knew he would return in the morning, so he prepared to spend the night in waiting.

As the Sun returned to his home next morning Maui caught him by his rays, which the Sun used
as legs, and, wielding the magic club which he always carried on his many expeditions, broke
several of them. Thus crippled, the Sun was forced to stay for parley, though crying out in
alarm that he must be let go, as there was no time to waste. Day must be carried westward.
But Maui hung on and reminded the Sun of his promises.

After much argument they agreed to compromise; so the Sun promised to go slowly six months
in the year and then, for the remaining six months, to hurry as fast as before.

Maui was content with this arrangement and sure also that the Sun would not again forget, for
he had crippled him considerably. It would take some time, he thought, for the Sun's broken
rays to mend.

So, very well pleased with his success, Maui permitted the Sun to proceed on his journey, while
himself he prepared to return with all speed, bearing the good news to his mother.

KUNA, THE DRAGON.

Far above Rainbow Falls there lived a powerful kupua named Kuna. Kuna had the form of a monstrous
dragon, unlike anything in these islands today.

Kuna often tormented the goddess Hina in her rocky cave behind Rainbow Falls by sending over
great torrents of water or by rolling logs and boulders down the stream. Quite often he would
block the stream below the falls with sediment sent down by freshets during the rainy seasons.

But Hina was well protected. Her cave was large and the misty cloud of spray from the falling
waters helped to conceal it. So in spite of the frequent floods and many threats from Kuna,
Hina paid him not the slightest attention, but with her songs and gay laughter lightly mocked
him as she worked.

On many days Hina was quite alone, while her eldest son, the demi-god Maui, was away on one
of his numerous expeditions. Even then she did not mind this, for should any danger befall
her she had a peculiar cloud servant which she called "ao-opua." If Hina were in trouble this
ao-opua would rise high above the falls, taking an unusual shape. When Maui saw this warning
cloud he would hurry home at once to his mother's side.

One night while Maui was away from home on the Island of Maui, where he had gone to bargain
with the Sun, a storm arose. The angry waters roared about the mouth of Hina's cave. They hissed
and tossed in ugly blackness down the narrow river gorge; but Hina heard naught of the wildness
without. Being used to the noisy cataract, her slumbers were not disturbed by the heightened
tumult of its roar.

But Kuna, quite aware of the situation, was quick to take advantage and to act. Hina's apparent
indifference annoyed him. He recalled several failures to conquer her, and rage overwhelmed
him. Calling upon his powers he lifted an immense boulder and hurled it over the cliffs. It
fitted perfectly where it fell between the walls of the gorge and blocked the rush of the hurrying
torrent.

Laughing loudly at his success, Kuna called on Hina and warned her of her plight, but, still
unknowing, Hina slept on until the cold waters entered the cave, rapidly creeping higher and
higher until they reached her where she slept. Startled into wakefulness she sprang to her
feet, and her cries of panic resounded against the distant hills. As the waters rose higher
her cries became more terrified until they reached the Island of Maui and the ears of her son.

Through the darkness Maui could see the strange warning cloud, unusually large and mysterious.
With his mother's cries ringing in his ears he bounded down the mountain to his canoe, which
he sent across the sea to the mouth of the Wailuku with two strong sweeps of his paddle. The
long, narrow rock in the river below the Mauka Bridge, called Ka Waa o Maui (The Canoe of Maui),
is still just where he ran it aground at the foot of the rapids.

Seizing his magic club with which he had conquered the Sun, Maui rushed to the scene of danger.
Seeing the rock blocking the river he raised his club and struck it a mighty blow. Nothing
could resist the magic club! The rock split in two, allowing the strong current to rush unhindered
on its way.

Hearing the crash of the club and realizing his attempt on the life of Hina had again failed,
Kuna turned and fled up the river.

The remains of the great boulder, now known as Lonokaeho, overgrown with tropical plants and
with the river rushing through the rift, lies there to this day as proof of Maui's prowess.

THE LAST OF KUNA.

So great was the wrath of the demi-god Maui at the fell intent of Kuna to drown his mother
that he vowed never to relent in his search for the monster, and to kill him on sight.

Kuna evidently sensed Maui's intentions, for as soon as he saw his great mischief undone he
fled to a hiding-place far up the river. He realized then how great had been his folly and
trembled at the thought of capture by the mighty demi-god. In spite of his magic powers Kuna
knew Maui's anger to be far greater than all of them put together; still, he had countless
secret hiding-places where it would be difficult to find him.

He did not have long to wait in his secret lair before he heard the thundering voice of Maui
commanding him to come forth. The earth shook with the heavy tread of the vengeful demi-god
and the dreadful blows he dealt all obstacles he passed which might possibly conceal the form
of his enemy.

The thundering voice and quaking earth became more horrible and terrifying as Maui approached.
Soon he stood before the hole in which Kuna lay hiding. Catching sight of the ugly monster
within, Maui let out a deafening yell, poised his magic spear, and with one sweep of his mighty
arm hurled it into the depths of Kuna's hiding-place. But the dragon was sly and agile, notwithstanding
his huge bulk, and slipped out in time to save himself.

Even today you can see the long hole--puka o Maui--which the demi-god's spear made through
the lava beyond the cavern; sufficient evidence of the Herculean strength with which the weapon
was driven. Small wonder Kuna so feared a meeting with this outraged son of the goddess he
had sought to drown.

Wasting no time, Kuna started down stream, with Maui in hot pursuit. Often the dragon tried
to conceal himself in some sheltered spot, or evade his pursuer by hiding behind a rock, but
Maui gave him no rest, spearing him from one hole to another.

Diving into one of several deep pools in the river, Kuna hoped that at last he was safely hidden.
Maui was not to be thus easily fooled. He could see the grotesque bulk of his enemy far below
the surface of the gloomy water. Kuna was cornered.

Calling upon Pele, goddess of the Volcano, to send him hot stones and molten lava, Maui cast
these into Kuna's retreat until the waters boiled furiously, sending a vast column of steam
far above the rim of the gorge.

Known today as the Boiling Pots, although time has cooled their waters, they still bubble and
surge as vigorously as ever, especially when the heavy rains come and remind them of the time
when Kuna the Dragon sought refuge within their depths.

Tough as the hide of Kuna was, it could not save him from the terrific heat generated by the
red-hot rocks and lava cast into the pool by Maui. Nearly exhausted, the monster managed to
drag himself from the cauldron and, shrieking horribly, he again took up his flight down stream.
Maui sent torrents of boiling water after him, scalding at last the life from his ugly body.

Then Maui rolled the huge carcass down the river to a point below Rainbow Falls, within sight
of his mother's home, where she could view daily the evidence that none might threaten her
and live. And there the ungainly form lies today--a long, black-rock island known as Moo Kuna,
between the rapids--where every freshet, every heavy rain, beats upon it as though in everlasting
punishment for plotting the death of Hawaii's beloved goddess, Hina.

THE COMING OF PAOA.

Many years ago there lived on the Island of Tahiti several brothers, all very gifted and powerful
gods of that land. One was by name Paoa.

Now Tahitian customs were very like those of Hawaii at that time, in that the Tahitians offered
human sacrifices when a canoe or a heiau was in process of construction. How the observance
of this custom caused the flight of Paoa to Hawaii, you shall see.

It so happened that one of the brothers was having a canoe built, and they were all undecided
as to whom should be offered in sacrifice. A quarrel ensued. Paoa and the owner of the new
canoe grew very bitter towards each other over it. When the time came for the sacrifice Paoa's
only son was taken and offered to the flames.

Grief-stricken at the loss of his son and furious at the cruelty of his brother, Paoa decided
to leave it all and seek peace on some other island. In preparation for the long journey by
canoe he took only three things with him: two kinds of fish--the aku and opelu--and some pili
grass.

Journeying northward he encountered a terrific storm which grew more terrible as the days passed
until it seemed the low canoe could no longer breast the great mountains of angry water that
bore down upon it as though to drive it under and swallow it into the black depths.

Fearing for his safety, Paoa took the two kinds of fish and threw them overside. Almost at
once the mighty waves were calmed and the canoe went safely on its way surrounded by an area
of calm, peaceful water while the storm raged on all sides a little distance away.

Even today if you see a smooth area of water in the midst of a rough sea you will know that
there is a school of aku or opelu very near the surface.

So Paoa sailed safely through the storm. As soon as it subsided he called back the fish and
placed them in his canoe once more. They had been very helpful and might be of use should the
storm arise again.

At last Paoa came to an island which appeared very large and was covered with vegetation. Paddling
his canoe into a great crescent-shaped bay, he observed a river emptying into it and turned
the nose of his tiny craft that way. Not far up the river he came to a long, low rock which
he called Waa Kauhi, and landed on the southeastern side of its point.

So great was the joy of Paoa upon reaching this beautiful island that he decided to make it
his home. To commemorate his safe landing he at once planted on the rock the pili grass he
had brought with him. Also he liberated his aku and opelu fish in the new waters, where today
their progeny teem in countless millions.

Very soon he built himself a grass hut for a home, and was careful to protect the pili grass,
which grew rapidly and before long spread to other parts of the big island, where it throve
even better than on the scant soil of the pahoehoe rock.

Hawaiians soon learned to use the pili grass in house building, as it made a tighter thatch
and lasted longer than the lauhala or the grasses to which they had been accustomed. The stems
of the flowers were later used in weaving hats, as they, too, were firm and strong.

Farther up the river, which Paoa learned was called the Wailuku, there lived the goddess Hina.
Soon after the arrival of this stranger from Tahiti, Hina heard of him and his chosen home.
Evidently he had not come to wage war or do harm to the people, for he had already made friends
with many of the fishermen living near him.

So Hina decided to see him for herself and went down to his home. She was surprised to find
that he really had established himself on that low rock.

"Why," she exclaimed, "you must not stay on this rock! Can't you see the waters above here
are high? When the rains come you will be washed away and drowned. It is not safe!"

Paoa stood upon the little plot of pili grass as he answered her. "No, I will not go away,
for no matter how high the waters come they shall never cover this spot."

From that day Paoa's word has held true. No matter how high the Wailuku rises, it never has
covered the little plot of pili grass which still grows on the long, low rock at the river's mouth.

MAUI AND THE ALAE BIRDS.

Maui, the eldest son of the goddess Hina, lived with his mother and two brothers in the cave
behind Rainbow Falls, in the Wailuku River Gorge, a short distance mauka of what is today the
town of Hilo. Often the brothers would go fishing in the harbor.

At this time the Hawaiians knew nothing about fire. All their food was eaten raw. Occasionally
Maui had found in his various wanderings some bits of cooked banana and pondered over their
delicious flavor. He could not understand what had been done to them until one day he came
upon a group of little alae birds cooking bananas over a fire.

He was so amazed at the scene that the birds had plenty of time to put out their fire and take
wing before he could bring himself to action. This only aroused his ambitious nature and he
vowed he would learn the secret of fire.

In the days that followed he devised many cunning schemes to trap one of the alae birds, but
they, too, were cunning and carefully refrained from building any fire when Maui was near.
Once or twice while he was out fishing he had seen white puffs of smoke among the trees and
knew the birds were preparing a feast, but he could never reach the place in time to catch
any of them.

One day he thought of a clever trick and took his brothers into his confidence. They fixed
up a kalabash covered with tapa to resemble a man and placed it in the middle of Maui's canoe.
Then the two brothers took their seats at either end of the canoe and paddled out into the
harbor while Maui ran back and concealed himself in the woods.

Soon the alae birds came circling overhead and Maui heard them say, "At last we can make our
fire and have a good feast. Maui and his two brothers are out for a day's fishing."

Quivering with excitement, Maui crouched in his hiding-place and waited. Soon he heard the
birds talking quite near him and, peeping out, saw them pushing fresh bananas into a blazing
fire. Rushing into their midst he caught one of the birds.

"Tell me how you make fire or you shall never go free!" he demanded.

At first the bird was sullen and refused to answer, but at Maui's rough treatment resorted
to trickery and replied, "Rub two taro stalks together and you shall have fire."

Holding the bird closely, Maui did so, but only little drops of water came from the stalks.
Very angry, Maui punished the bird again and demanded the truth. Helpless and exhausted, the
poor alae told Maui to take two hau sticks and rub them together.

Maui found the hau sticks, but fearing the bird was not telling the truth, he rubbed its head
with one of the sticks until a drop of blood trickled out, staining the tuft of feathers on
its crest. But the bird persisted in this statement, so Maui began rubbing the sticks together.
Little sparks appeared and caught fire to the dead leaves on which they fell.

Overjoyed at his discovery, Maui set the bird free. But to this day every alae bird wears the
symbol of punishment for telling its secret--a tuft of red feathers on the top of its head.

MAUI'S KITE.

Maui, the great demi-god of Hawaii, was restless. Time hung heavy on his hands. Uneventful
days of quiet had fallen upon the land. Adventure seemed to be in hiding, and no exploit invited
to service this active youngster's shining spear or magic club. Idleness grew more and more
unbearable.

Now Laamaomao, god of the winds, dwelt not far above Rainbow Falls in the beautiful gorge of
the Wailuku and to him Maui confided his discontent. The old fellow admitted that times were
dull. Not for a long time had he been called upon for blasts from his greater windpot, Ipunui.
On the heels of this remark came inspiration, and he suggested that Maui fashion a large kite.
He, Laamaomao, would see to it that a suitable wind be forthcoming and excitement sufficient
to break the dull monotony of too peaceful days.

So Maui set about the construction of an enormous kite. His mother, the goddess Hina, made
for him a beautiful and strong tapa, and twisted fibres of the olona into a stout cord. From
the rich red wood of the koa expert and willing hands put together a graceful frame, and in
due time the big plaything was ready. Laamaomao, having fathered the idea, manifested a keen
interest in the proceedings and had his windpots in readiness for the initial flight.

Calling Ipuiki, smaller of his two windpots, into action, Laamaomao directed a steady, gentle
breeze up the gorge against the breast of the great kite, cautioning those who held it to be
in readiness to let go at the proper moment and reminding Maui to have a care lest the olona
cord slip through his hands.

Gracefully the birdlike thing rose into the brilliant turquoise sky--that same sky which today
so enchants the malihini--and as it tugged at the line, dipped, rose again and circled about,
the thrill of it came down the cord to Maui's hands and his delight knew no bounds.

Often in the quiet days that followed did Maui amuse himself with the big kite. As he grew
more familiar with its handling the impetuous demi-god would ask Laamaomao for winds from Ipunui
and glory in the tussle his kite gave him when buffeted by these stronger blasts--even though
wise old Laamaomao was careful to moderate their power.

Sometimes Maui would tire of his sport and, drawing its cord through a round hole in a rock
which lay in the center of a small lake near the wind caves, would leave his kite to its own
devices while he slept.

On one such occasion Laamaomao, having received an order for a great storm, forgot all about
Maui's kite and turned loose his most powerful wind from Ipunui. All night long it howled through
the creaking trees, driving the rain before it in lashing sheets. Stout as it was, the olona
cord with which Maui's big kite was moored could not long withstand the strain and finally
parted, leaving the kite to the mercy of the winds. Tossed madly about in the storm, it was
carried far across the flank of Mauna Loa and dropped into the sea off the shore of Kau.

Now Puuanuhe, the much-dreaded lizard-woman, made her home on the shores of the Kau desert,
and to her ears had come the wonderful story of Maui's kite, fanning an already hot jealousy
of the young demi-god and his doings. Puuanuhe was the only creature of those days who had
fiery red hair, and her temper was none the less caloric.

So when she saw this strange object floating in the water near her home on the morning after
the storm she recognized it as Maui's kite. Chuckling in vicious satisfaction at this chance
opportunity to make trouble for the handsome son of Hina, Puuanuhe hid the kite in the rough
hills back of Hilea.

Great was Maui's surprise and consternation when he found his kite gone. He at once set out
in search of it. Days passed without trace of it, but one day news came to him that Puuanuhe
had been seen with a large kite. He knew it must be his, as there was none other so big.

Arriving at Hilea he discovered the hideous red-headed lizard-woman, who admitted she had found
his kite, but refused to enlighten him as to its whereabouts. This same creature had lured
many a poor fisherman to death on the rocky coast of Kau, and Maui thought it high time to
put an end to such a pest, so he killed her.

Once more he took up his search for his beloved kite and soon found it cleverly hidden in the
hills. Ironically he named the spot Puuanuhe, and returning home with his precious toy he fastened
it securely to its moorings again.

Even today you can see the immense kite, now turned to stone, just as Maui hauled it in for
the last time and left it. It is seventy-five feet long and about forty-five feet wide, narrowing
to eighteen feet at one end. At the narrow end is a crystal-clear lake, very deep and smooth
as glass. In its center is a large, round stone projecting above the surface with a two-inch
aperture in the middle where Maui used to make his kite string fast.

Near this lake are the two windpots, Ipunui and Ipuiki, and a little way below are three very
distinct foot-prints, each fifteen inches long, showing where Maui stood while flying his great
kite.

MAUI'S FISH-HOOK.

Maui, the powerful young demi-god who dwelt with his mother, the goddess Hina, in the great
cave behind Rainbow Falls, had succeeded in so many hazardous undertakings, and had the welfare
of his people so much at heart, that he resolved upon what was to be his greatest deed of prowess
and beneficence.

Now Maui had a magic fish-hook which he cleverly used while fishing with his brothers. Maui
was very sly and quick, but he was never a good fisherman. He would sit in the canoe and drag
his hook through the water, catching no fish himself but snagging those his brothers caught
and laughing merrily at their bewildered expressions when they pulled in their lines and found
nothing.

They distrusted Maui, for he would never let them see his hook, yet they knew it was shaped
differently from theirs. It was more complicated and had a double barb, while the common fish-hook
had but one. But his brothers could never catch him at his tricks.

At last they no longer allowed him to accompany them on their fishing trips, as he took all
the fish and honors, and they all knew--Maui included--that he did not deserve them. So Maui
would go alone to the bay, but the hook remained idle in the bottom of his magic canoe which,
as related in the legend of Kuna, he drove from the shores of the Island of Maui to the mouth
of the Wailuku with two sweeps of his paddle.

While drifting about Maui watched some of his people who were not blessed with magic canoes,
and considered the hard paddling required to send them through the water.

One day as he sat in his canoe watching another pass by, evidently on its way to a neighboring
island, the demi-god wondered if it might not make things easier to have all the islands joined
together, so people could travel to any part of the kingdom without the laborious canoe voyages.

Calling a meeting of Hawaii's chiefs and strong men Maui informed them of a plan to draw all
the islands together. He told them he would need their help in pulling the islands, but no
matter how hard or how long they pulled they must never look back to see how much was being
accomplished until the islands were firmly joined together.

The men solemnly promised to obey Maui and at once proceeded to their new task. The island
now known as Maui was selected for the first attempt. Maui fastened his magic fish-hook into
that part of the land nearest Hawaii, and at his command the strong men and chiefs paddled
with all their might. Slowly the island moved behind them.

No one dared look around, though all were burning with curiosity to see the result of their
struggles. Long and steadily they paddled until the two islands were only a few feet apart.
Then one of the chiefs could no longer control his curiosity and looked around.

In an instant the charm was broken. The island slid back through the sea to its former position
in spite of all that Maui, chiefs and strong men could do to stop it. Only a small piece of
land was left--that in which the fish-hook was still deeply imbedded. Today that bit of land
is covered with lauhala trees and coconut palms, and is known as Coconut Island.

So great was Maui's disappointment at this his first failure in any important enterprise that
he would not try again. He said his fish-hook had lost its charm and sorrowfully he took it
away with him in his canoe. He carried it up the Wailuku River to his home behind Rainbow Falls,
where he grieved for many days over the unsuccessful attempt. Later, having no more use for
the hook, he carried it away from the cave and threw it into the forest near his home, where
it lay undisturbed until the haole came.

To those early settlers the magic fish-hook of Maui was of less interest as such than as material
for masonry, and not a piece of it remains. At the forks of the Piihonua-Kaumana road one may,
however, see the peculiar-shaped depression where it lay for so long before civilization's
vanguard swept the tangled jungle of Maui's time from its hiding-place.

HINA KEAHI.

Just mauka of the Hilo Boarding School are three large, rounded hills which, centuries ago,
were mud craters. Covered with the green of rustling cane-tops, at a distance they appear to
be soft, grassy mounds. Many a tourist, gazing from the deck of an incoming ship, has yearned
to "stroll over those smooth, rolling hills," only to find the pastime quite impossible on
nearer view, which revealed the "velvety grass" as lusty sugar cane stalks ten to fifteen feet
high and closely interwoven.

But now the last crop of cane has been harvested from these graceful mounds and their slopes
are being prepared to receive the dwelling-houses of any who choose--and can afford--to live
in the rarified atmosphere of romance that hangs about this Hawaiian Olympus.

Nor is the term Olympus as applied to these hills a redundant flight of fancy. Long ago--many,
many years before the haole came to plant his sugar cane in their deep, rich soil--these hills
were the homes of several beautiful goddesses.

The makai and largest hill, called Halai, was the home of Hina Keahi, eldest daughter of the
goddess Hina, who lived at Waianuenue--the cave behind Rainbow Falls in the Wailuku River--and
sister of Maui the demi-god. To Hina Keahi was given power over fire.

In many ways this young goddess aided her people, bestowing upon them the blessing of protection
from fire while teaching them many ways in which to use it. The remarkable fact has often been
noted, by the way, that although the Hawaiians always lived in grass houses, seldom was one
known to be destroyed by fire. Hina Keahi was well beloved by her people and her lightest commands
were obeyed meticulously.

Food had always been plentiful in Hawaii. The people cultivated their fields, which yielded
bountifully. But one time the crops failed--grew smaller and smaller--and began to shrivel
up and die. Soon a famine spread over the land. Crops were allowed to wholly perish because
none was strong enough to tend them.

Hina Keahi saw that unless something was done at once her beloved followers would all die.
Calling them about her she commanded that an immense imu be dug in the top of Halai Hill. "Prepare
a place for each kind of food as though you were ready to fill the imu, then bring as much
firewood as you can," she ordered.

The starving people summoned new strength at this promise and worked for many days preparing
the enormous imu. Knowing a human sacrifice would be offered as the only possible result of
their labors, they lived in fear and wondered who would be chosen. Still, they never once thought
of deserting their work and finally everything was in readiness.

"Fill the imu with wood and heat it," commanded Hina.

As soon as this was done she turned to the wondering people and said: "Listen to what I tell
you, and follow my instructions. It is the only way you can be saved from starvation. I will
step into the imu and you must quickly cover me with earth. Do not stop throwing earth over
me until the last puff of smoke disappears. In three days a woman will appear at the edge of
the imu and tell you what to do."

Bidding them farewell, Hina Keahi stepped quickly into the red-hot imu. Immediately a dense
white cloud of smoke surrounded and concealed her. For a moment the people stood transfixed
at the sight; but remembering instructions they at once began covering the imu with earth.

Followed then three long days of waiting fraught with mingled hopeful expectancy and anxiety
for their goddess. On the third day everyone repaired to the edge of the imu and awaited the
appearance of the woman of whom Hina Keahi had spoken.

In the meantime Hina Keahi had not remained in the imu for long. The fire had not harmed her,
for she had complete power over it. Going underground she made her way toward the sea, coming
to the surface of the earth somewhere near the spot on which the Hilo Boarding School stands
today. The place was marked by a bubbling spring.

Once more she disappeared underground and again came to the surface, creating another spring
near the present location of the Hilo Hotel. A third time the goddess followed her subterranean
route, coming up in a third spring at the place now occupied by the American Factors' lumber
yard. Refreshing herself in the clear waters, she started back to her home, this time traveling
above ground.

Thus on the third day from the disappearance of Hina Keahi those gathered about the imu saw
a strange woman approaching from the direction of the sea. As she drew near they noticed a
striking resemblance to their own goddess, yet she, they knew, was buried in the imu. In fear
they drew away, but the strange woman smiled and told them to uncover the imu.

Reluctantly they set to work, dreading the sight which all had in mind. But when the imu was
uncovered they found it filled with cooked food--enough to supply their needs until the rains
came and new crops could be grown and harvested. In gratitude they turned to thank the strange
woman, but she had vanished.

And to this day one may see the immense imu in the top of Halai Hill, now overgrown with a
thicket of feathery bamboo, which the people left open in memory of their timely deliverance.

HINA KULUUA.

Hina Kuluua was the second daughter of the goddess Hina, who lived behind Rainbow Falls. Hina
Keahi, the elder sister, had received the best of the gifts which their mother could bestow--power
over fire and ownership of the largest of the Halai hills. Known as the goddess of fire, Hina
Keahi was indeed very powerful and one time gave spectacular evidence of it in saving her people
from starvation, as told in the legend, Hina Keahi.

Naturally everyone looked upon her thereafter as the most wonderful goddess in the Islands.
Even her sister's little band of followers did not refrain from open admiration of the beautiful
fire goddess.

This made Hina Kuluua exceedingly angry. Her jealousy overwhelmed her; she could not bear to
let her sister claim so much glory, and she have none at all.

It was not long after this that another famine swept the land. Hina Kuluua thought fortune
was at last coming her way. Here was the very opportunity she craved. Now she would prove her
power superior to her sister's and all the people would sing her praises and worship her alone.

In her excitement she entirely overlooked the fact that she was goddess of rain, and not of
fire. She ordered an immense imu to be dug in her own hill, Puu Honu. Comprehending her intentions
the people at once realized the utter futility of her proposed action and pleaded with her
against it; but to no avail.

"Do you mean to tell me that my power is less than Hina Keahi's?" she demanded angrily. "Do
you think that I, Hina Kuluua, cannot do as much for my people in their time of need? I will
show you! Then you shall recognize Hina Kuluua as the greatest goddess in Hawaii."

"You can help as well and perhaps better than your sister," they argued, "but you cannot do
it in the same way. Your power, though it may be as great, is nevertheless entirely different
from hers."

Then Hina Kuluua would order them out of her sight and command them to hurry the completion
of the imu.

At last all was ready. A group with tear-stained faces were gathered about the smoking imu.
Hina Kuluua approached, her head held high in an air of triumph. She stepped to the edge of
the imu, cast a glance of disdain toward the wailing women and said, "Cover me quickly. Watch
near the imu and in three days a young woman will appear. She will give you further instructions." 

After that a committee started to look over the lists, sitting until four p.m. the next day
because, even though there were two lists handed out, the ones that came in held parts of each
and a lot of them were ordered differently.

Slowly the long days of waiting passed. The third day dawned. All morning the people watched
for signs from the imu. Late in the afternoon found their vigilance unbroken; night closed
in and still no sign. Dawn once more, another day of anxiety. On the fifth day they could no
longer restrain themselves and cautiously uncovered the great oven.

A dark greyish cloud rose over the imu--that was all. Within, the people could distinguish
the charred remains of their proud goddess. With reverence they covered the imu once more and
carefully smoothed it over.

That is why today you cannot see a deep crater in Puu Honu as in Halai, and why the dark, gloomy
cloud--a sure sign of rain--often hangs low over the one-time home of Hina Kuluua.

THE FIRST LAW.

Following one of his great victories King Kamehameha I established his court on the largest
island of the Hawaiian group, Hawaii, and prepared to make his headquarters there for the time.
Of course a heiau must be built, and he ordered construction to begin immediately, selecting
a site near the mouth of the Wailuku where today stands the armory of the National Guard of Hawaii.

This heiau was unusually large and considerable time was consumed in building it. Finally it
was completed, but before it could be used the customary human sacrifice had to be offered.
Not willing to take one of his own men, the king went in search of another. 

The executants are twenty in number but one plays the drums, Mr. Rammond, who leads them; another
the bone castanet; but the third, he cannot play any instrumen; but the five others, all guitar
players. The castanet player sings well; but some of his friends have good voices, and, in glees,
they harmonize very well. In a triad, the melody on the Phantom Chrous, from Bellini's 'Sonnambula';
and in a glee, 'You'll See Them on the Ohio,' nothing can be more effective than the skillful
blending of the parts.

Landing safely, yet with the prow of the big canoe not a spear's length behind, the poor fellows
made all speed over the open lava beds that lie between the shore and the jungle at this point.
The king, standing in the bow of his canoe, was first ashore and in hot pursuit, but, unfamiliar
with the footing there, made poor progress. These lava beds are full of treacherous pukas and
into one of them Kamehameha stumbled, sinking to his armpits. There chanced to be a sizeable
stone within reach of his hand, and this he hurled after the fleeing men, but his aim was bad
and he missed them. This very stone, and the hole into which the king fell, may still be seen
just mauka of Leleiwi Point.

Glancing over his shoulder, the hindmost fugitive observed the king was trapped and that his
retainers were still some distance to the rear. Here was a chance for revenge. Swinging his
heavy canoe paddle, which he had been too frightened to drop, the fisherman turned and dealt
his majesty a cruel blow on the head and, leaving him for dead, made off at top speed after
his companion.

When his men came up, the king was just regaining consciousness. One look at their wounded
monarch sent them like a pack of hungry wolves after the fishermen.

"Mamalahoa Kanawai o na alii!" Kamehameha called after them. "Whoever purposely murders a fellowman
shall be hanged."

And thus the very first law was made in Hawaii.

"Let them go," he said, as his men reluctantly abandoned the chase. "I am not much harmed and
they are badly frightened now. One competitor has alreday copied the required addition, by handing
his beds over the side of the Tower on "extended poles." The question is "Would Sir Watkin be
able to induce his patrons 'to turn in' under these conditions?" 

The Gospel is the guide for the Spirit. The Apostles professed it by means of the Holy Spirit
who came down from the heavens. Rom. i, 5. An awesome and wonderful rule presided over them.
By following it, their every action was for the sake of all the Earth
or religion.

 When the police chief saw this,
he said: "What is this, O cursed one?" "Give me the ring seal of forgiveness!" he said. "We are
four blind and pretend we require people that can enter homes and
looking women and their corruption invent this way, we got much money,
even twelve thousand dirhems ..

So I told My companions, "Give me my share, three thousand dirhems." But they fell on me and
beat me and took my money and I appeal to God protect you, you better than they have for me. So ,
you want one know the truth of my words, beat each other more than you beat me and he will surely
open his eyes. "commanded the prefect start with my brother: so they bound him to the whipping
post [Fn # 104] and the prefect said, "Oh, rascals, I will not deny
gracious gifts of God and claims to be blind?"

"Allah!" Allah! " my brother shouted, "Allah is not one of us can see!" Then beat until he fainted
and the prefect said: "Leave him to revive him and then beat again."

And he challenged each other to be beaten by more than three hundred
blows, while the placebo blind man stood by, saying, "Open your eyes,
or you will be beaten again."

Then he said the prefect, "Send me someone to bring money to these
colleges will not open their eyes, lest they be embarrassed in front
of people."

So, the prefect sent to bring money and gave a three thousand dirhems imposter claimed to share.
 So skillfully is this done that it is impossible to detect the lines of
jointure. 

The lady told the man to find Meme, after a long time the man didn't come back, the lady went
to find Meme, but nobody could find Meme or the man.

Come morning, the man came back, carrying Meme in his arms, Meme was
frozen and crying.

Meme said she tried to find her father, wnet up the stairs, no one would let her in, she did
this many times, still no one would let her in.

After Meme fell asleep on the stone stairs, a man found her and lifted
her from the snow. 

Asada Khan's story differs from Firishtah's account and those of Portugese
historians.

The Portugese say the both Asada Khan and Do Sousa joined forces
with Adbullah.

Khan purportedly promised the Konkian territory to the King of Portugal
under specific terms, including the demise of Ibrahim.



Honu: Turtle, turtle-shaped. 

The exact details of how this injures the wood-of how this powerful desease can spread into the bark
and inside of the wood, are exactly that, details that would take up too much space here to describe
thoroughly; the main point here is that the mycelia that are in different
types of fungi can easily penetrate the wood through the bark and
secrete certain deadly fermentation that will destroy the timber,
rendering the wood to be deseased and therefore, unfit for any use.

 

Feel free to take anything you desire, with the exception of the Doncaster
races.

Also, you can ask me to view anything you please, but do not ask
me to look at a group of people who are all uplifted by affection
and adulation towards the stallion.

 

Now there were eight battleships leaving Tenedos,all were predreadnoughts
at twelve noon six of them moved toward the strait in line.

The English ships were already passing further up and going out of
sight.

The bombing ships were constantly steaming up and down the stretch
which is approximately a couple miles long.

Black smoke was rising from the fighting.

Erenkuei village which stands high on Asiatic side recieved a few shells around midday.
