Among the foods rich in protein are the legumes, the cereals, and nuts. Those low in protein
are fresh fruits, green vegetables, and roots. Fat is chiefly found in nuts, olives, and certain
pulses, particularly the peanut; and carbohydrates in cereals, pulses, and many roots. Fruit
and green vegetables consist mostly of water and organic mineral compounds, and in the case
of the most juicy varieties may be regarded more as drink than food. We have, then, six distinct
classes of food--the pulses, cereals, nuts, fruits, green vegetables, and roots. Let us briefly
consider the nutritive value of each.

Pulse foods usually form an important item in a vegetarian dietary. They are very rich in their
nutritive properties, and even before matured are equal or superior in value to any other green
vegetable. 'The ripened seed shows by analysis a very remarkable contrast to most of the matured
foods, as the potato and other tubers, and even to the best cereals, as wheat. This superiority
lies in the large amount of nitrogen in the form of protein that they contain.' Peas, beans,
and lentils should be eaten very moderately, being highly concentrated foods. The removal of
the skins from peas and beans, also of the germs of beans, by parboiling, is recommended, as
they are then more easily digested and less liable to 'disagree.' These foods, it is interesting
to know are used extensively by the vegetarian nations. The Mongol procures his supply of protein
chiefly from the Soya bean from which he makes different preparations of bean cheese and sauce.
It is said that the poorer classes of Spaniards and the Bedouins rely on a porridge of lentils
for their mainstay. In India and China where rice is the staple food, beans are eaten to provide
the necessary nitrogenous matter, as rice alone is considered deficient in protein.

With regard to the pulse foods, Dr. Haig, in his works on uric acid, states that, containing
as they do considerable xanthin, an exceedingly harmful poison, they are not to be commended
as healthful articles of diet. He states that he has found the pulses to contain even more
xanthin than many kinds of flesh-meat, and as it is this poison in flesh that causes him to
so strongly condemn the eating of meat, he naturally condemns the eating of any foods in which
this poison exists in any considerable quantity. He writes: 'So far as I know the "vegetarians"
of this country are decidedly superior in endurance to those feeding on animal tissues, who
might otherwise be expected to equal them; but these "vegetarians" would be still better if
they not only ruled out animal flesh, but also eggs, the pulses (peas, beans, lentils and peanuts),
eschew nuts, asparagus, and mushrooms, as well as tea, coffee and cocoa, all of which contain
a large amount of uric acid, or substances physiologically equivalent to it.'

Dr. Haig attributes many diseases and complaints to the presence of uric acid in the blood
and its deposits in the tissues: 'Uric acid diseases fall chiefly in two groups: (a) The arthritic
group, comprising gout, rheumatism, and similar affections of many fibrous tissues throughout
the body; (b) the circulation group including headache, epilepsy, mental depression, anæmia,
Bright's disease, etc.' Speaking with regard to rheumatism met with among the vegetarian natives
of India, Dr. Haig writes: 'I believe it will appear, on investigation, that in those parts
of India where rice and fresh vegetables form the staple foods, not only rheumatism, but uric
acid diseases generally are little known, whereas in those parts where pulses are largely consumed,
they are common--almost universal.'

The cereals constitute the mainstay of vegetarians all the world over, and although not superior
to nuts, must be considered an exceedingly valuable, and, in some cases, essential food material.
They differ considerably in their nutritive properties, so it is necessary to examine the worth
of each separately.

Wheat, though not universally the most extensively used of the cereals, is the most popular
and best known cereal in this country. It has been cultivated for ages and has been used by
nearly all peoples. It is customary to grind the berries into a fine meal which is mixed with
water and baked. There are various opinions about the comparative value of white and whole-wheat
flour. There is no doubt but that the whole-wheat flour containing, as it does, more woody
fibre than the white, has a tendency to increase the peristaltic action of the intestines,
and thus is valuable for persons troubled with constipation.[4] From a large number of analyses
it has been determined that entire wheat flour contains about 2.4 per cent. more protein than
white flour (all grades), yet experiments have demonstrated that the available protein is less
in entire wheat-flour than in white flour.[5] This is probably due to the fact that the protein
which is enclosed in the bran cannot be easily assimilated, as the digestive organs are unable
to break up the outer walls of woody fibre and extract the nitrogenous matter they contain.
On the other hand whole-wheat flour contains considerably more valuable and available mineral
matter than does white flour. The two outer layers contain compounds of phosphorus, lime, iron,
and soda. Analyses by Atwater show entire-wheat flour to contain twice as much mineral matter
as white flour. It is affirmed by Broadbent and others, that this mineral matter is exceedingly
valuable both as a nutrient, and because of its neutralising effect upon proteid wastes, and
that it is because of this that flour made from the entire-wheat berry has very superior food
value to that made from the berry minus the outer cuticles. Many dietetists look upon whole-wheat
bread as one of the most salutary of all foods and strongly advise its use in place of white
bread. A well-known doctor states that he has known it a cure for many diseases, and thinks
that many nervous complaints due to 'saline starvation' can be cured by substituting whole-meal
for white bread.

But in opposition to these views Dr. Haig thinks that as the outer brown husk of all cereals
contains some xanthin, it should on this account be removed. He therefore recommends white
flour, (not superfine, but cheap-grade), in place of the entire-wheat. Others, however, are
of the opinion that the amount of xanthin present in the bran is so small as not to be considered,
especially when, by the removal of the xanthin, valuable mineral matter is also removed.

Of course, it is difficult for a layman to form an opinion when experts differ. Perhaps the
best thing to do is to use whole-wheat bread if there is any tendency to constipation. If not,
then choose that which is the more palatable, or change from one to the other as inclination
dictates. This adds to variety, and as digestion is better when the food is better relished,
no doubt, in this case, that which pleases the taste best is the best to eat. At least, we
can hold this view tentatively for the present.

Wheat flour (entire), ranks the highest of all the cereals in protein, excepting oatmeal, averaging
13 per cent. In fat it exceeds rice and rye, is equal with barley and maize, but considerably
below oatmeal: averaging about 1.9 per cent. In carbohydrates it averages about seventy-two
per cent., all the cereals being very much alike in quantity of these nutrients. It is a well-balanced
food, as indeed, all cereals are, and is palatable prepared in a variety of ways, although,
made into unleavened, unsalted bread, the sweet, nutty flavour of the berry itself is best
preserved.

Oatmeal is not extensively used, comparatively speaking, although it has an excellent reputation.
It is decidedly the richest cereal in protein and fat, especially fat, and this is probably
why people living in cold climates find it such a sustaining food. In protein it averages 16.1
per cent.: in fat 7.2 per cent. It is very commonly used as porridge. When well cooked, that
is to say, for several hours, this is a good way to prepare it, but a better is to eat it dry
in the form of unsweetened oatcakes, scones, etc., these being more easily digested because
necessitating thorough mastication. The above remarks regarding the removal of the bran from
wheat-flour are precisely as applicable to oatmeal, as well as rye, so no more need be said
on that point.

Rye flour is not unlike wheat, and is used more extensively than wheat in many parts of Europe.
It has 2 per cent. less protein than wheat and its gluten is darker in colour and less elastic
and so does not make as light a loaf; but this does not detract from its nutritive value at
all. Being more easily cultivated than wheat, especially in cold countries, it is cheaper and
therefore more of a poor man's food.

Indian corn, or maize, or Turkish wheat, is one of the finest of cereals. It is used extensively
in America, North and South, in parts of the Orient, in Italy, the Balkans, Servia, and elsewhere.
It is used as a green vegetable and when fully matured is ground into meal and made into bread,
porridge, biscuits, Johnny-cake, etc., etc. Corn compared to wheat is rich in fat, but in protein
wheat is the richer by about 3 per cent. Sugar corn, cooked and canned, is sold in England
by food-reform dealers. It is perhaps the most tasty of all the cereals.

Rice is the staple of the Orientals. The practice of removing the dark inner skin in order
to give the uncooked grain a white and polished appearance, is not only an expensive operation,
but a very foolish one, for it detracts largely from the nutritive value of the food, as considerable
protein and other valuable matter is removed along with the bran. We are told that the Burmese
and Japanese and other nations who use rice as their principal food-stuff, use the entire grain.
As compared to undressed rice, the ordinary, or polished rice is deficient 3 per cent. of protein;
6 per cent. of fat; 5 per cent. of mineral matter. 'Once milled' rice can be procured in this
country, but has to be specially asked for. Rice is not nearly so nitrogenous as wheat, but
is equal to it in fuel value, this being due to the large amount of starch it contains. It
is an excellent food, being easily digested and easily prepared.

Millet, buckwheat, wild rice, sesame, and Kaffir corn, are cereals little known in this country,
although where they are raised they are largely used by the natives. However, we need not trouble
to consider their food value as they are not easily procurable either in Europe or America.

Nuts are perhaps the best of all foods. There is no doubt but that man in his original wild
state lived on nuts and berries and perhaps roots. Nuts are rich in protein and fat. They are
a concentrated food, very palatable, gently laxative, require no preparation but shelling,
keep well, are easily portable, and are, in every sense, an ideal food. They have a name for
being indigestible, but this may be due to errors in eating, not to the nuts. If we eat nuts,
as is often done, after having loaded the stomach with a large dinner, the work of digesting
them is rendered very difficult, for the digestive apparatus tires itself disposing of the
meal just previously eaten. Most things are indigestible eaten under such conditions. Nuts
should be looked upon as the essential part of the meal and should be eaten first; bread, salad
stuffs and fruit help to supply bulk and can follow as dessert if desired. Another cause of
nuts not being easily digested is insufficient mastication. They are hard, solid food, and
should be thoroughly chewed and insalivated before being swallowed. If the teeth are not good,
nuts may be grated in an ordinary nut-mill, and then, if eaten slowly and sparingly, will generally
be found to digest. Of course with a weak digestion nuts may have to be avoided, or used in
very small quantities until the digestion is strengthened; but with a normal, healthy person,
nuts are a perfect food and can be eaten all the year round. Perhaps it is best not to eat
a large quantity at once, but to spread the day's supply over four or five light meals. With
some, however, two meals a day seems to work well.

Pine kernels are very suitable for those who have any difficulty in masticating or digesting
the harder nuts, such as the brazil, filbert, etc. They are quite soft and can easily be ground
into a soft paste with a pestil and mortar, making delicious butter. They vary considerably
in nitrogenous matter, averaging about 25 per cent. and are very rich in fat, averaging about
50 per cent. Chestnuts are used largely by the peasants of Italy. They are best cooked until
quite soft when they are easily digested. Chestnut meal is obtainable, and when combined with
wheatmeal is useful for making biscuits and breadstuffs. Protein in chestnuts averages 10 per
cent. Walnuts, Hazelnuts, Filberts, Brazils, Pecans, Hickory nuts, Beechnuts, Butternuts, Pistachio
nuts and Almonds average 16 per cent. protein; 52 per cent. fat; 20 per cent. carbohydrates;
2 per cent. mineral salts. As each possesses a distinct flavour, one can live on nuts alone
and still enjoy the pleasure of variety. A man weighing 140 lbs. would, at moderately active
labour, require, to live on almonds alone--11 ozs. per day. 10 ozs. of nuts per day together
with some fresh fruit or green salad in summer, and in winter, some roots, as potato, carrot,
or beetroot, would furnish an ideal diet for one whose taste was simple enough to relish it.

Fruits are best left alone in winter. They are generally acid, and the system is better without
very acid foods in the cold weather. But fruits are health-giving foods in warm and hot weather,
and living under natural, primitive conditions, this is the only time of the year we should
have them, for Nature only provides fruit during the months of summer. The fraction of protein
fruit contains, 1 per cent. or less, is too small to be of any account. The nutritive value
of fruits consists in their mineral salts, grape-sugar and water.

Much the same applies to green vegetables. In cooking vegetables care should be taken that
the water they are cooked in is not thrown away as it contains nearly all the nutrient properties
of the vegetable; that is to say, the various salts in the vegetable become dissolved in the
water they are boiled in. This water can be used for soup if desired, or evaporated, and with
flour added to thicken, served as sauce to the vegetable. Potatoes are a salutary food, especially
in winter. They contain alkalies which help to lessen the accumulation of uric acid. They should
be cooked with skins on: 16 grains per lb. more of valuable potash salts are thus obtained
than when peeled and boiled in the ordinary way. The ideal method, however, of taking most
vegetables is in the form of uncooked salads, for in these the health-giving, vitalising elements
remain unaltered.

If man is to be regarded, as many scientists regard him, as a frugivore, constitutionally adapted
and suited to a nut-fruit diet, then to regain our lost original taste and acquire a liking
for such simple foods should be our aim. It may be difficult, if not impossible, to make a
sudden change after having lived for many years upon the complex concoctions of the chef's
art, for the system resents sudden changes, but with proper care, changing discreetly, one
can generally attain a desired end, especially when it involves the replacing of a bad habit
by a good one.

In the recipes that follow no mention is made of condiments, i.e., pepper, salt, mustard, spice,
et hoc genus omni. Condiments are not foods in any sense whatever, and the effect upon the
system of 'seasoning' foods with these artificial aids to appetite, is always deleterious,
none the less because it may at the time be imperceptible, and may eventually result in disease.
Dr. Kellogg writes: 'By contact, they irritate the mucous membrane, causing congestion and
diminished secretion of gastric juice when taken in any but quite small quantities. When taken
in quantities so small as to occasion no considerable irritation of the mucous membrane, condiments
may still work injury by their stimulating effects, when long continued.... Experimental evidence
shows that human beings, as well as animals of all classes, live and thrive as well without
salt as with it, other conditions being equally favorable. This statement is made with a full
knowledge of counter arguments and experiments, but with abundant testimony to support the
position taken.... All condiments hinder natural digestion.'

Condiments, together with such things as pickles, vinegar, alcohol, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco,
opium, are all injurious, and undoubtedly are the cause of an almost innumerable number of
minor, and, in some cases, serious, complaints. Theine, caffeine, and theobromine, all stimulant
drugs, are present in tea, coffee, and cocoa, respectively. Tea also contains tannin, a substance
which is said to seriously impair digestion.

Alcohol, tea, coffee, etc., are stimulants. Stimulants do not produce force and should never
be mistaken for food. They are undoubtedly injurious, as they are the cause, among other evils,
of loss of force. They cause an abnormal metabolism which ultimately weakens and exhausts the
whole system. While these internal activities are taking place, artificial feelings of well-being,
or, at least, agreeable sensations, are produced, which are unfortunately mistaken for signs
of benefit. Speaking of alcohol Dr. Haig writes: 'It introduces no albumen or force, it merely
affects circulation, nutrition, and the metabolism of the albumens already in the body, and
this call on the resources of the body is invariably followed by a corresponding depression
or economy in the future.... It has been truly said that the man who relies upon stimulants
for strength is lost, for he is drawing upon a reserve fund, which is not completely replaced,
and physiological bankruptcy must inevitably ensue. This is what the stimulants such as tea,
coffee, alcohol, tobacco, opium and cocaine do for those who trust in them.'

He who desires to enjoy life desires to possess good physical health, for a healthy body is
almost essential to a happy life; and he who desires to live healthily does not abuse his body
with poisonous drugs. It may require courage to reform, but he who reforms in this direction
has the satisfaction of knowing that his good health will probably some day excite the envy
of his critics.

The chemical composition of all the common food materials can be seen from tables of analyses.
It would be to the advantage of everyone to spend a little time examining these tables. It
is not a difficult matter, and the trouble to calculate the quantity of protein in a given
quantity of food, when once the modus operandi is understood, is trifling. As it has not unwisely
been suggested, if people would give, say, one-hundredth the time and attention to studying
the needs of the body and how to satisfy them as they give to dress and amusement, there is
little doubt that there would be more happiness in the world.

The amount of protein in any particular prepared food is arrived at in the following manner:
In the first place those ingredients containing a noticeable amount of protein are carefully
weighed. Food tables are then consulted to discover the protein percentage. Suppose, for instance,
the only ingredient having a noticeable quantity of protein is rice, and 1 lb. is used. The
table is consulted and shows rice to contain eight per cent. protein. In 1 lb. avoirdupois
there are 7,000 grains; eight per cent. of 7,000 is 70.00 × 8 = 560 grains. Therefore, in the
dish prepared there are 560 grains of protein. It is as well after cooking to weight the entree
or pudding and divide the number of ounces it weighs into 560, thus obtaining the number of
grains per ounce. Weighing out food at meals is only necessary at first, say for the first
week or so. Having decided about how many grains of protein to have daily, and knowing how
many grains per ounce the food contains, the eye will soon get trained to estimate the quantity
needed. It is not necessary to be exact; a rough approximation is all that is needed, so as
to be sure that the system is getting somewhere near the required amount of nutriment, and
not suffering from either a large excess or deficiency of protein.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 4: Entire-wheat flour averages .9 per cent. fibre; high-grade white flour, .2 per
cent. fibre.]

[Footnote 5: See United States Dept. of Agriculture, Farmer's Bulletin, No. 249, page 19, obtainable
from G. P. O., Washington, D. C.]

III

WHEN TO EAT

The question of when to eat is of some importance. The Orientals eat fewer meals than we do,
and in their abstemiousness they set us an example we should do well to follow. Sufficient
has already been said to show that it is a mistake to imagine a great deal of food gives great
strength. When we eat frequently, and especially when we 'live well,' that is, are accustomed
to a large variety of food, we are tempted to eat far more than is good for us. Little and
often may work satisfactorily so long as it does not develop into much and often, which, needless
to say, it is very likely to do. Most people on this account would probably be much better
in their health if they ate but twice daily, at noon, and five or six hours before going to
bed. Then there is less chance of over-feeding. If, however, we experimentally determine the
quantity of food that our particular system requires in order to be maintained in good health,
and can trust our self-command in controlling the indulgence of sense, probably the best method
is to eat anyway three times daily, and four, five, or even six times, or doing away with set
meals altogether, would be a procedure which, judging from analogy of the anthropoids, ought
to be a better method than eating a whole day's supply at once, or at two or three meals.

It is not wise to sit down to a meal when the body is thoroughly fatigued. A glass of hot or
cold water will be found reviving, and then, after a short rest, the system will be far better
able to assimilate food. When the body is 'tired out,' it stands to reason it cannot perform
digestion as easily and as well as when in fit condition.

Also it is unwise to eat immediately before undertaking vigorous muscular work. Strenuous exercise
after meals is often the cause of digestive disorders. Starting on exercise after a hearty
meal may suspend the gastric digestion, and so prevent the assimilation of protein as to produce
a sensation of exhaustion. If, however, rest is taken, the digestive organs proceed with their
work, and after a short time recuperation follows, and the exercise can be continued. It is
unwise to allow such a suspension of digestion because of the danger of setting up fermentation,
or putrefaction, in the food mass awaiting digestion, for this may result in various disorders.

For the same reason it is a bad plan to eat late at night. It is unwise to take a meal just
before going to bed, for the digestive organs cannot do their work properly, if at all, while
the body is asleep, and the food not being digested is liable to ferment and result in dyspepsia.
The 'sinking feeling' sometimes complained of if a meal is not eaten late at night and described
as a kind of hunger is probably due to an abnormal secretion of acid in the stomach. A glass
of hot water will often relieve this discomfort. This feeling is seldom experienced by vegetarians
of long standing. The natives of India, it is said, do not experience it at all, which fact
leads us to surmise the cause to be in some way connected with flesh-eating. Farinaceous foods,
however, prepared as soup, porridge, gruel, pultaceous puddings, etc., when eaten, as is customary,
without proper insalivation, are liable to be improperly digested and to ferment, giving rise
to the sensation described as a 'sinking feeling' and erroneously thought to be hunger.

It is an excellent rule that prescribes fasting when without hunger. When there is no appetite
do not eat. It is an example of conventional stupidity that we eat because it is 'meal time,'
even though there be not the slightest feeling of genuine hunger. Leaving out of consideration
the necessitous poor and those who for their living engage themselves in hard physical toil,
it is safe to say that hardly one person in a thousand has ever felt real hunger. Yet no one
was ever the worse for waiting upon appetite. No one was ever starved by not eating because
of having no appetite. Loss of appetite is a sign that the digestive organs require a rest.
It is better to go without food for a time than to force oneself to eat against inclination.
The forcing of oneself to eat to 'keep up one's strength,' is perhaps the quickest way to bring
down one's strength by overworking the system and burdening it with material it does not need.
Eat by appetite, not by time. Eat frequently when the appetite demands frequent satisfaction,
and seldom when seldom hungry. These rules hold good at all times and for everyone. Loss of
appetite during sickness should not be looked upon as anything serious in itself, but as a
sign that the system does not require food. A sick man like a well man will feel hunger as
soon as food is needed, and the practice of tempting the appetite with rich and costly foods
is not only a waste of money but is injurious physiologically. Possibly there may be pathological
conditions under which hunger cannot make itself felt, but it would seem contrary to Nature
as far as the writer, a layman, understands the matter. At least, leaving abnormal conditions
of health out of consideration, we can say this much affirmatively: if a man is hungry enough
to relish dry bread, then, and then only, does he really require nourishment.

Hunger is always experienced when nutriment is needed, and will be felt a dozen times a day
if the food eaten at each of a dozen meals has supplied only sufficient nutriment to produce
the force expended between each meal. If the meal is large and supplies sufficient nutriment
to produce the force expended in a whole day, then the one meal is all that is required. Never
eat to be sociable, or conventional, or sensual; eat when hungry.

Professor Pavlov says: 'Appetite is juice'; that is to say, the physiological condition existing
when the body has run short of food-fuel, produces a psychological effect, the mind thinking
of food, thereby causing through reaction a profuse secretion of saliva, and we say 'the mouth
waters.' It is true the appetite is amenable to suggestion. Thus, though feeling hunger, the
smell of, or even thought of, decayed food may completely take away appetite and all inclination
to eat. This phenomenon is a provision of Nature to protect us from eating impure food. The
appetite having thus been taken away will soon return again when the cause of its loss has
been removed. Therefore the appetite should be an infallible guide when to eat.

There is one further point to be noted. Food should not be eaten when under the influence of
strong emotion. It is true that under such conditions there probably would be no appetite,
but when we are so accustomed to consulting the clock that there is danger of cozening ourselves
into the belief that we have an appetite when we have not, and so force ourselves to eat when
it may be unwise to do so. Strong emotions, as anger, fear, worry, grief, judging by analogy,
doubtless inhibit digestive activity. W. B. Cannon, M.D., speaking of experiments on cats,
says: 'The stomach movements are inhibited whenever the cat shows signs of anxiety, rage, or
distress.' To thoroughly enjoy one's food, it is necessary to have hunger for it, and if we
only eat when we feel hungry, there is little likelihood of ever suffering from dyspepsia.

In passing, it is appropriate to point out that as when food is better enjoyed it is better
digested, therefore art, environment, mental disposition, indirectly affect the digestive processes.
We should, therefore, remembering that simplicity, not complexity, is the essence of beauty,
ornament our food and table, and be as cheerful, sociable, and even as merry as possible.

IV

HOW TO EAT

The importance of thorough mastication and insalivation cannot be overestimated. The mouth
is a part of the digestive apparatus, and in it food is not only broken down, but is chemically
changed by the action of the saliva. If buccal (mouth) digestion be neglected, the consequence
is that the food passes into the stomach in a condition that renders it difficult for that
organ to digest it and any of a great number of disturbances may result.

Mastication means a thorough breaking up of the food into the smallest particles, and insalivation
means the mixing of the small particles with the saliva. The mechanical work is done with the
jaws and tongue, and the chemical work is performed by the saliva. When the mechanical work
is done thoroughly the chemical work is also thorough, and the test for thoroughness is loss
of taste. Masticate the food until all taste has disappeared, and then it will be found that
the swallowing reflex unconsciously absorbs the food, conscious swallowing, or at least, an
effort to swallow, not being called for.

It may take some while to get into the habit of thorough mastication after having been accustomed
to bolting food, but with a conscious effort at the first, the habit is formed, and then the
effort is no longer a laborious exercise, but becomes perfectly natural and is performed unconsciously.

This ought to be common knowledge. That such a subject is not considered a necessary part of
education is indeed lamentable, for the crass ignorance that everywhere abounds upon the subject
of nutrition and diet is largely the cause of the frightful disease and debility so widespread
throughout the land, and, as a secondary evil of an enormous waste of labour in the production
and distribution of unneeded food. Were everyone to live according to Nature, hygienically
and modestly, health, and all the happiness that comes with it, would become a national asset,
and as a result of the decreased consumption of food, more time would be available for education,
and the pursuit of all those arts which make for the enlightenment and progress of humanity.

To become a convert to this new order, adopting non-animal food and hygienic living, is not
synonymous with monastical asceticism, as some imagine. Meat eaters when first confronted with
vegetarianism often imagine their dietary is going to be restricted to a monotonous round of
carrots, turnips, cabbages, and the like; and if their ignorance prevents them from arguing
that it is impossible to maintain health and strength on such foods, then it is very often
objected that carrots and cabbages are not liked, or would not be cared for all the time. The
best way to answer this objection is to cite a few plain facts. From a catalogue of a firm
supplying vegetarian specialties, (and there are now quite a number of such firms), most of
the following information is derived:

Of nuts there are twelve varieties, sold either shelled, ground, or in shell. Many of these
nuts are also mechanically prepared, and in some cases combined, and made into butters, nut-meats,
lard, suet, oil, etc. The varieties of nut-butters are many, and the various combinations of
nuts and vegetables making potted savouries, add to a long list of highly nutritious and palatable
nut-foods. There are the pulses dried and entire, or ground into flour, such as pea-, bean-,
and lentil-flour. There are the cereals, barley, corn, oats, rice, rye, wheat, etc., from which
the number of preparations made such as breakfast foods, bread, biscuits, cakes, pastries,
etc., is legion. (One firm advertises twenty-three varieties of prepared breakfast foods made
from cereals.) Then there are the fruits, fresh, canned, and preserved, about twenty-five varieties;
green vegetables, fresh and canned, about twenty-one varieties; and roots, about eleven varieties.

The difficulty is not that there is insufficient variety, but that the variety is so large
that there is danger of being tempted beyond the limits dictated by the needs of the body.
When, having had sufficient to eat, there yet remain many highly palatable dishes untasted,
one is sometimes apt to gratify sense at the expense of health and good-breeding, to say nothing
of economy. Simplicity and purity in food are essential to physical health as simplicity and
purity in art are essential to moral and intellectual progress. 'I may say,' says Dr. Haig,
'that simple food of not more than two or three kinds at one meal is another secret of health;
and if this seems harsh to those whose day is at present divided between anticipating their
food and eating, I must ask them to consider whether such a life is not the acme of selfish
shortsightedness. In case they should ever be at a loss what to do with the time and money
thus saved from feasting, I would point on the one hand to the mass of unrelieved ignorance,
sorrow, and suffering, and on the other to the doors of literature and art, which stand open
to those fortunate enough to have time to enter them; and from none of these need any turn
aside for want of new Kingdoms to conquer.'

This question of feeding may, by superficial thinkers, be looked upon as unimportant; yet it
should not be forgotten that diet has much more to do with health than is commonly realized,
and health is intimately connected with mental attitude, and oftentimes is at the foundation
of religious and moral development. 'Hypochondriacal crotchets' are often the product of dyspepsia,
and valetudinarianism and pessimism are not unrarely found together. 'Alas,' says Carlyle,
'what is the loftiest flight of genius, the finest frenzy that ever for moments united Heaven
with Earth, to the perennial never-failing joys of a digestive apparatus thoroughly eupeptic?'

Our first duty is to learn to keep our body healthy. Naturally, we sooner expect to see a noble
character possess a beautiful form than one disfigured by abuse and polluted by disease. We
do not say that every sick man is a villain, but we do say that men and women of high character
regard the body as an instrument for some high purpose, and believe that it should be cared
for and nourished according to its natural requirements. In vegetarianism, scientifically practised,
is a cure, and better, a preventative, for many physical, mental, and moral obliquities that
trouble mankind, and if only a knowledge of this fact were to grow and distil itself into the
public mind and conscience, there would be halcyon days in store for future generations, and
much that now envelops man in darkness and in sorrow, would be regarded as a nightmare of the past.

FOOD TABLE

The following table exhibits the percentage chemical composition of the principal vegetable
food materials; also of dairy produce and common flesh-foods for comparison.

 FOOD MATERIAL               Protein   Fat   Carbo-    Salts  Water   Fuel
                                             hydrates               Value cals.
 Vegetable Foods             p. ct.  p. ct.   p. ct.   p. ct. p. ct.   p. lb.

 Wheat Flour (entire)         18.8    1.9      71.9     1.0   11.4     1,675
 Oatmeal                      16.1    7.2      67.5     1.9    7.3     1,860
 Rice                         8.0      .3      79.0      .4   12.3     1,630
 Barley                       8.5     1.1      77.8     1.1   11.5     1,650
 Corn Meal                    9.2     1.9      75.4     1.0   12.5     1,655
 Rye                          0.8      .9      78.7      .7   12.9     1,630
 Lentils (dried)             25.7     1.0      59.2     5.7    8.4     1,620
 Beans (dried)               22.5     1.8      59.6     3.5   12.6     1,605
 Peas (dried)                24.6     1.0      62.0     2.9    9.5     1,655
 Nuts, various (aver.)     16.0    52.0      20.0     2.0   10.0     2,640
 Dates                        2.1     2.8      78.4     1.3   15.4     1,615
 Figs                         4.3      .3      74.2     2.4   18.8     1,475
 Potatoes                     2.2      .1      18.4     1.0   78.3       385
 Apples                        .4      .5      14.2      .3   84.6       290
 Bananas                      1.3      .6      22.0      .8   75.3       460

 Dairy Foods

 Milk, whole (not skim)       3.3     4.0       5.0      .7   87.0       325
 Cheese, various (aver.)    24.5    28.4      2.1     4.0   41.0     1,779
 Hens' Eggs (boiled)        14.0    12.0      0.0      .8   73.2       765

 Flesh Foods

 Beef                         18.6    19.1      0.0     1.0   61.3     1,155
 Mutton (medium fat)        18.2    18.0      0.0     1.0   62.8     1,105
 Ham (fresh)                15.6    33.4      0.0      .9   50.1     1,700
 Fowl                         19.0    16.3      0.0     1.0   63.7     1,045
 White Fish (as purchased)  22.1     6.5      0.0     1.6   69.8       700

[The amount of heat that will raise one kilogram of water 1 deg. C. is termed a calorie. Fuel
value, or food units, means the number of calories of heat equivalent to the energy it is assumed
the body obtains from food when the nutrients thereof are completely digested.]

ONE HUNDRED RECIPES

RECIPES

The following recipes are given as they appear in the English edition of this book and were
prepared for English readers. While some of these will be difficult for American readers to
follow, we give them as in the original edition, and many of the unusual ingredients called
for can be obtained from the large grocers and dealers, and if not in stock will be obtained
to order. 'Nutter' is a name given a nut butter used for cooking. It is, so far as we know,
the only collection of strictly vegetarian recipes published.

Readers interested in the foreign products referred to, should write to Pitman's Health Food
Company, Aston Brook St., Birmingham, England, and to Mapleton's Nut Food Company, Ltd., Garston,
Liverpool, England, for price list and literature.

                                                  THE PUBLISHERS.

SOUPS

=1.--Vegetable Soup=

1 large cupful red lentils, 1 turnip, 2 medium onions, 3 potatoes, 1 carrot, 1 leek, 1 small
head celery, parsley, 1 lb. tomatoes, 3-1/2 quarts water.

Wash and cut up vegetables, but do not peel. Boil until tender, then strain through coarse
sieve and serve. This soup will keep for several days and can be reheated when required.

=2.--Semolina Soup=

