When the Empress spent the night in the Emperor's apartment, I entered in the morning, as usual,
between seven and eight o'clock, and nearly always found the august spouses awake.  The Emperor
usually ordered tea, or an infusion of orange flowers, and rose immediately, the Empress saying
to him, with a laugh, "What, rising already?  Rest a little longer."--"Well, you are not asleep,
then?" replied his Majesty, rolling her over in the covering, giving her little slaps on her
cheeks and shoulders, laughing, and kissing her.

At the end of a few moments the Empress rose also, put on a wrapper, and read the journals,
or descended by the little communicating stairway to her own apartment, never leaving the Emperor
without a few words expressing the most touching affection and good-will.

Elegant and simple in her dress, the Empress submitted with regret to the necessity of toilets
of state.  Jewels, however, were much to her taste; and, as she had always been fond of them;
the Emperor presented her with them often and in great quantities; and she greatly enjoyed
adorning herself with them, and still more exhibiting them to the admiration of others.

One morning, when my wife was present at her toilet, her Majesty related that, being newly
married to M. de Beauharnais, and much delighted with the ornaments he had given her, she was
in the habit of carrying them around in her reticule (reticules were then an essential part
of a woman's dress), and showing them to her young friends.

As the Empress spoke of her reticule, she ordered one of her ladies to hunt for one to show
my wife.  The lady whom the Empress addressed could scarcely repress a laugh at this singular
request, and assured her Majesty that there was nothing similar to that now in her wardrobe;
to which the Empress replied, with an air of regret, that she would have really liked to see
again one of her old reticules, and that the years hall brought great changes.  The jewels
of the Empress Josephine could hardly have been contained in the reticule of Madame de Beauharnais,
however long or deep it might have been; for the jewel case which had belonged to Queen Marie
Antoinette, and which had never been quite full, was too small for the Empress.  One day, when
she wished to exhibit all her ornaments to several ladies who expressed a desire to see them,
it was necessary to prepare a large table on which to place the caskets; and, as this table
was not sufficient, several other pieces of furniture were also covered with them.

Good to excess, as everyone knows, sympathetic beyond all expression, generous even to prodigality,
the Empress made the happiness of all who surrounded her; loving her husband with a devotion
which nothing ever changed, and which was as deep in her last moments as at the period when
Madame Beauharnais and General Bonaparte made to each other a mutual avowal of their love.
Josephine was long the only woman loved by the Emperor, as she well deserved to have ever been;
and for several years the harmony of this imperial household was most touching.  Attentive,
loving, and entirely devoted to Josephine, the Emperor took pleasure in embracing her neck,
her figure, giving her taps, and calling her 'ma grosse bete'; all of which did not prevent,
it is true, his being guilty of some infidelities, but without failing otherwise in his conjugal
duties.  On her side the Empress adored him, sought by every means to please him, to divine
his wishes, and to forestall his least desires.

At first she gave her husband cause for jealousy.  Having been strongly prejudiced against
her by indiscreet reports, during the campaign of Egypt, the Emperor on his return had explanations
with her, which did not always end without lamentations and violent scenes; but peace was soon
restored, and was thereafter very rarely broken, for the Emperor could not fail to feel the
influence of so many attractions and such loveliness.

The Empress had a remarkable memory, of which the Emperor often availed himself; she was also
an excellent musician, played well on the harp, and sang with taste.  She had perfect tact,
an exquisite perception of what was suitable, the soundest, most infallible judgment imaginable,
and, with a disposition always lovely, always the same, indulgent to her enemies as to her
friends, she restored peace wherever there was quarrel or discord.  When the Emperor was vexed
with his brothers or other persons, which often happened, the Empress spoke a few words, and
everything was settled.  If she demanded a pardon, it was very rare that the Emperor did not
grant it, however grave the crime committed; and I could cite a thousand examples of pardons
thus solicited and obtained. One occurrence which is almost personal to me will sufficiently
prove how all-powerful was the intercession of this good Empress.

Her Majesty's head valet being one day a little affected by the wine he had taken at a breakfast
with some friends, was obliged, from the nature of his duties, to be present at the time of
their Majesties' dinner, and to stand behind the Empress in order to take and hand her the
plates. Excited by the fumes of the champagne, he had the misfortune to utter some improper
words, which, though pronounced in a low tone, the Emperor unfortunately overheard.  His Majesty
cast lightning glances at M. Frere, who thus perceived the gravity of his fault; and, when
dinner was over, gave orders to discharge the impudent valet, in a tone which left no hope
and permitted no reply.

