In the woods among the pine trees there were now both heat and silence. It seemed as if a dreamy
stillness enveloped the whole world. Not a breath of wind stirred; the trees, grain, and grass
were motionless. The leaves hung on the trees as if rocked to sleep; the birds had ceased their
noises, and the moment of rest had come. But this rest seemed to come from an ineffable sweetness,
and all nature seemed to meditate. Only the great expanse of heaven seemed to smile, and somewhere,
high in the unknowable depths of its blue, the great and beneficent God was glad with the gladness
of the fields, the woods, the meadows, and the waters.

Kasya and John were still busy in the woods collecting herbs, laughing gleefully and speaking
to each other joyfully. Man is as artless as a bird; he will sing when he can, for this is
his nature. John now began to sing a simple and touching song.

As Kasya and John sang in unison the last refrain of the song ended mournfully, and as if in
accompaniment the echo repeated it in the dark depths of the woods; the pines gave resonance
as the words ran between their trunks and died away in the far distance like a sigh, less distinct,
light, ethereal; then silence.

Later Kasya sang a more cheerful song, beginning with the words:

  "I shall become a ring of gold now."

This is a good song. A willful young girl quarrels with her lover and enumerates the means
she intends to use to escape from him. But it is useless. When she says that she will be a
golden ring and will roll away on the road, he says that he will quickly see and recover her.
When she wants to be a golden fish in the water he sings to her of the silken net; when she
wants to be a wild fowl on the lake he appears before her as a hunter. At last the poor maiden,
seeing she is unable to hide herself from him on the earth, sings:

  "I shall become a star in heaven,
  Light to earth by will be given.
  My love to thee I shall not render,
  Nor my sweet will to thee surrender."

But the undaunted youth answers:

  "Then shall I pray to the saint's grace
  That the star may fall from its heavenly place.
  Thy love to me thou then wilt render,
  And thy sweet will to me surrender."

The maiden, seeing there is no refuge either in heaven or on earth for her, accepts the view
of Providence and sings:

  "I see, I see, fate's decree doth bind me;
  Where'er I hide, thou sure wilt find me.
  My love to thee I must now render,
  And my sweet will to thee surrender."

John, turning to Kasya, said:

"Do you understand?"

"What, John?"

He began to sing:

  "Thy love to me thou must now render,
  And thy sweet will to me surrender."

Kasya was troubled, and laughed loudly to cover her confusion; and wishing to speak, she said:

"I have gathered a large lot of plants; it would be well to dip them in water, for in this
heat they will wither."

Verily the heat was great; the wind had entirely ceased. In the woods, though in the shade,
the air vibrated with moist heat, the pines exuding a strong, resinous odor. The delicate,
golden-tinted face of Kasya was touched with perspiration, and her blue eyes showed traces
of weariness. She removed the kerchief from her head, and began to fan herself. John, taking
the basket from her, said:

"Here, Kasya, stand two aspen trees, and between them a spring. Come, let us drink."

Both went. After a short interval they noticed that the ground of the forest began to slope
here. Among the trees, instead of bushes, ferns and dry mosses, there was a green, damp turf,
then one aspen tree, then another, and after them whole rows. They entered into this dark,
humid retreat, where the rays of the sun, passing through the leaves, took on their color and
reflected on the human face a pale green light. John and Kasya descended lower and lower into
the shadows and dampness; a chilliness breathed upon them, refreshing after the heat of the
woods; and in a moment, between the rows of the aspen trees, they espied in the black turf
a deep stream of water winding its way under and through canes and bushy thickets, and interspersed
with the large, round leaves of the water-lilies, which we call "nenufars," and by the peasants
are called "white flowers."

Beautiful was this spot, quiet, secluded, shady, even somewhat sombre and solemn. The transparent
stream of water wound its way between the trees. The nenufars, touched by the light movement
of the water, swayed gently backward and forward, leaning toward each other as if kissing.
Above their broad leaves, lying like shields on the surface of the water, swarmed indigo-colored
insects with wide, translucent, sibilant wings, so delicate and fragile that they are justly
called water-sprites. Black butterflies, with white-edged, mournful wings, rested on the sharp,
slender tops of the tamarack. On the dark turf blossomed blue forget-me-nots. On the edge of
the stream grew some alder trees, and under the bushes peeped out heads of the lily-of-the-valley,
bluebells and honeysuckles. The white heads of the biedrzenica hung over the waters; the silvery
threads of the strojka spread out upon the current of the stream and weaved themselves into
thin and long strands; besides--seclusion--a wild spot, forgotten by men, peaceful, peopled
only with the world of birds, flowers and insects.

In such places generally dwell nymphs, rusalki, and other bad or good forest sprites. Kasya,
who was in advance, stood first on the banks of the stream and looked upon the water in which
was reflected her graceful form. She verily appeared as one of those beautiful forest spirits
as they are seen sometimes by the woodsmen or lumber men who float on their rafts down the
rivers through the woods. She had no covering upon her head, and the wind gently played with
her locks and ruffled her ray-like hair. Sunburned she was, blond-haired, and her eyes, as
blue as turquoise, were as laughing as her lips. Besides, she was a divinely tall, slender,
and fairy-like maiden. No one could swear, if she was suddenly startled, that she would not
jump into the water--would not dissolve into mist--into rainbow rays--would not turn quickly
into a water-lily or kalina tree, which, when robbed of its flowers, remonstrates with a voice
so human, yet recalling the sigh of the forest:

"Don't touch me."

Kasya, bending over the water so that her tresses fell on her shoulders, turned toward John
and said:

"How shall we drink?"

"As birds," answered John, pointing to some silver pheasants on the opposite side of the stream.

John, who knew how to help himself better than the birds, plucked a large leaf from a tree,
and, making a funnel out of it, filled it with water and gave it to Kasya.

They both drank, then Kasya gathered some forget-me-nots, and John with his knife made a flute
from the willow bark, on which, when he had finished, he began to play the air which the shepherds
play in the eventide on the meadows. The soft notes floated away with ineffable tenderness
in this secluded spot. Shortly he removed the flute and listened intently as if to catch an
echo returning from the aspen trees, and it seemed that the clear stream, the dark aspen trees,
and the birds hidden in the canes listened to these notes with him.

All became silent, but shortly, as if in answer--as if a challenge--came the first faint note
of the nightingale, followed by a stronger trill. The nightingale wanted to sing--it challenged
the flute.

Now he began to sing. All nature was listening to this divine singer. The lilies lifted their
heads above the water; the forget-me-nots pressed closer together; the canes ceased to rustle;
no bird dared to peep except an unwise and absent-minded cuckoo, who with her silent wing alighted
near by on a dry bough, lifted her head, widely opened her beak, and foolishly called aloud:

"Cuckoo! cuckoo!"

Afterward it seemed as if she was ashamed of her outbreak, and she quietly subsided.

Vainly Kasya, who stood on the edge of the stream with the forget-me-nots in her hand, turned
to the side from whence came the voice of the cuckoo and queried:

"Cuckoo, blue-gray cuckoo, how long shall I live?"

The cuckoo answered not.

"Cuckoo, shall I be rich?"

The cuckoo was silent.

Then John: "Cuckoo, gray cuckoo, how soon will I wed?"

The cuckoo replied not.

"She cares not to answer us," said John; "let us return to the forest."

On returning they found the large stone by which they had placed the basket and bunches of
herbs. Kasya, seating herself beside it, began to weave garlands, and John helped her. Burek
lay near them, stretched his hairy forepaws, lolled out his tongue and breathed heavily from
fatigue, looking carefully around to see if he could not spy some living thing to chase and
enjoy his own noise. But everything in the woods was quiet. The sun was traveling toward the
west, and through the leaves and the needles of the pines shot his rays, becoming more and
more red, covering the ground of the woods in places with great golden circles. The air was
dry; in the west were spreading great shafts of golden light, which flooded all like an ocean
of molten gold and amber. The wondrous beauties of the peaceful, warm spring evening were glowing
in the sky. In the woods the daily work was gradually ceasing. The noise of the woodpecker
had stopped; black and bronzed ants returned in rows to their hills, which were red in the
rays of the setting sun. Some carried in their mouths pine needles and some insects. Among
the herbs here and there circled small forest bees, humming joyfully as they completed their
last load of the sweet flower-dust. From the fissures in the bark of the trees came gloomy
and blind millers; in the streams of the golden light circled swarms of midgets and gnats scarcely
visible to the eye; mosquitoes began their mournful song. On the trees the birds were choosing
their places for the night; a yellow bird was softly whistling; the crows flapped their wings,
crowding all on one tree and quarreling about the best places. But these voices were more and
more rare, and became fainter; gradually all ceased, and the silence was interrupted by the
evening breeze playing among the trees. The poplar tree tried to lift her bluish-green leaves
upward; the king-oak murmured softly; the leaves of the birch tree slightly moved--silence.

Now the sky became more red; in the east the horizon became dark blue, and all the voices of
the woods merged into a chorus, solemn, deep and immense. Thus the forest sings its evening
song of praise, and says its prayers before it sleeps; tree speaks to tree of the glory of
God, and you would say that it spoke with a human voice.

Only very innocent souls understand this great and blessed speech. Only very innocent hearts
hear and understand when the first chorus of the parent oaks begins its strain:

"Rejoice, O sister pines, and be glad. The Lord hath given a warm and peaceful day, and now
above the earth He makes the starry night. Great is the Lord, and mighty, powerful and good
is He, so let there be glory to Him upon the heights, upon the waters, upon the lands, and
upon the air."

And the pines pondered a moment upon the words of the oaks, and then they raised their voices
together, saying:

"Now, O Lord, to thy great glory, we, as censers, offer to Thee the incense of our sweet-smelling
balsam, strong, resinous and fragrant. 'Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy Name.'"

Then the birches said:

"Thy evening brightness illumines the heavens, O Lord! and in Thy splendors our small leaves
golden are and burning. Now with our golden leaves we sing to Thee, O Lord, and our delicate
twigs play as the strings of the harp, O good Father of ours!"

Again the sorrowing cypress said:

"Upon our sad foreheads, exhausted with the heat, softly falls the evening dew. Praise be to
Thee, O Lord; brothers and sisters rejoice, because there falls the cooling dew."

Amid this chorus of trees the aspen alone trembles and is afraid; for it gave the wood for
the Cross of the Saviour of the world; at times it faintly groans:

"O Lord, have mercy upon me. Have mercy upon me, O Lord."

Again, sometimes, when the oaks and pines cease for a moment, there rises from under their
feet a faint, modest voice, low as the murmur of insects, silent as silence itself, which says:

"A small berry am I, O Lord, and hidden in the moss. But Thou wilt hear, discern and love me;
though small, devout am I, and sing Thy glory."

Thus every evening prays the forest, and these orchestral sounds rise at every sunset from
earth to heaven--and float high, high, reaching where there is no creature, where there is
nothing only the silvery dust and the milky way of the stars, and above the stars--God.

At this moment the sun hides his radiant head in the far-distant seas; the farmer turns upward
his plowshares and hastens to his cottage. From the pastures return the bellowing herds; the
sheep raise clouds of the golden dust. The twilight falls; in the village creek the well sweeps;
later the windows shine, and from the distance comes the barking of the dogs.

The sun had not gone beyond the woods when Kasya had seated herself under the mossy stone to
weave her garlands. Its rays were thrown upon her face, broken by the shadows of the leaves
and twigs. The work did not proceed rapidly, for Kasya was tired from heat and running in the
woods. Her sunburnt hands moved slowly at her work. The warm breeze kissed her temples and
face, and the voices of the forest lulled her to sleep. Her large eyes became heavy and drowsy;
her eyelashes began to close slowly; she leaned her head against the stone, opened her eyes
once more as a child looking upon the divine beauty of the world; then the noise of the trees,
the rows of the stumps, the ground full of pine needles, and the skies that could be seen between
the branches all became indistinct, darkened, dissolved, disappeared--and she smiled and slept.
Her head was hidden in a soft shade, but the covering of her breast shone all rosy and purple.
Her soft breathing lifted her bosom gently; so wonderful and beautiful she looked in this quiet
sleep in the evening rays that John looked upon her as if upon the image of a saint, glorious
with gold, and colored as the rainbow.

Kasya's hands were clinging yet to the unfinished garland of herbs. She slept with a sleep
light and sweet, for she smiled through her dreams as a child who speaks with the angels. Perhaps
she verily conversed with angels, for pure she was as a child, and had dedicated her whole
day to the service of God by gathering and weaving the garlands for His temple.

John was sitting by her side, but he did not sleep. His simple breast could not contain the
feelings that arose there; he felt as if his soul had got wings and was preparing to fly away
to the realms of heaven. He knew not what was happening to him, and he only raised his eyes
to the skies and was motionless; you would say that love had transfigured him.

Kasya slumbered on, and for a long time they both remained there. Meanwhile the dusk came.
The remnants of the purple light fought with the darkness. The interior of the woods deepened--became
dumb. From the canes of the lake near the glade with its cottage came the buzzing of a night
beetle.

Suddenly on the other side of the lake from the church rang out the Angelus bell. Its tones
floated on the wings of the evening breeze over the face of the quiet waters, clear, resonant,
and distinct. It called the faithful to prayer, and also proclaimed: "Rest! Enough of work
and the heat of the day," spoke the bell. "Wrap yourself to sleep in the wing of God. Come,
come ye weary to Him--in Him is joy! Here is peace! here gladness! here sleep! here sleep!
here sleep!"

John took off his hat at the sound of the bell, Kasya shook the sleep from her eyes, and said:

"The bell rings."

"For the Angel of the Lord."

Both kneeled near by the mossy stone as if before an altar. Kasya began to pray with a low,
soft voice:

"The Angel of the Lord declared unto Mary,"

"And she conceived by the Holy Ghost," answered John.

"Behold the handmaiden of the Lord; may it be done to me according to Thy word."

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus kneeling, prayed these children of God. The silent summer lightning shone from the east
to the west, and upon its light flew down from heaven a radiant host of winged angels, and
hovered above their heads. Then they blended with the angels and were themselves as if angels,
for upon earth there were no two souls more bright, more pure, more innocent.

ORSO.

The last days of autumn in Anaheim, a town situated in Southern California, are days of joy
and celebration. The grape gathering is finished and the town is crowded with the vineyard
hands. There is nothing more picturesque than the sight of these people, composed partly of
a sprinkling of Mexicans, but mainly of Cahuilla Indians, who come from the wild mountains
of San Bernardino to earn some money by gathering grapes. They scatter through the streets
and market places, called lolas, where they sleep in tents or under the roof of the sky, which
is always clear at this time of the year. This beautiful city, surrounded with its growths
of eucalyptus, olive, castor, and pepper trees, is filled with the noisy confusion of a fair,
which strangely contrasts with the deep and solemn silence of the plains, covered with cacti,
just beyond the vineyards. In the evening, when the sun hides his radiant head in the depths
of the ocean, and upon the rosy sky are seen in its light the equally rosy-tinted wings of
the wild geese, ducks, pelicans and cranes, descending by the thousands from the mountains
to the ocean, then in the town the lights are lit and the evening amusements begin. The negro
minstrels play on bones, and by the campfires can be heard the picking of the banjo; the Mexicans
dance on an out-spread poncha their favorite bolero; Indians join in the dance, holding in
their teeth long white sticks of kiotte, or beating time with their hands, and exclaiming,
"E viva;" the fires, fed with redwood, crackle as they blaze, sending up clouds of bright sparks,
and by its reflection can be seen the dancing figures, and around them the local settlers with
their comely wives and sisters watching the scene.

The day on which the juice from the last bunch of grapes is trampled out by the feet of the
Indians is generally celebrated by the advent of Hirsch's Circus, from Los Angeles. The proprietor
of the circus is a German, and besides owns a menagerie composed of monkeys, jaguars, pumas,
African lions, one elephant, and several parrots, childish with age--"The greatest attraction
of the world." The Cahuilla will give his last peso, if he has not spent it on drink, to see
not only wild animals--for these abound in the San Bernardino Mountains--but to see the circus
girls, athletes, clowns, and all its wonders, which seem to him as "a great medicine"--that
is, magical feats, impossible of accomplishment except by the aid of supernatural powers.

