"Yes, sir! Ever know one of 'em married for as long as ten years that didn't in her secret
heart have a sort of contempt for her life partner as being a stuffy, plodding truck horse?
Of course they keep a certain dull respect for him as a provider, but they can't see him as
dashing and romantic any more; he ain't daring and adventurous. All he ever does is go down
and open up the store or push back the roll-top, and keep from getting run over on the street.
One day's like another with him, never having any wild, lawless instincts or reckless moods
that make a man fascinating--about the nearest he ever comes to adventure is when he opens
the bills the first of the month. And she often seeing him without any collar on, and needing
a shave mebbe, and cherishing her own secret romantic dreams, while like as not he's prosily
figuring out how he's going to make the next payment on the endowment policy.

"It's a hard, tiresome life women lead, chained to these here plodders. That's why rich widows
generally pick out the dashing young devils they do for their second, having buried the man
that made it for 'em. Oh, they like him well enough, call him 'Father' real tenderly, and see
that he changes to the heavy flannels on time, but he don't ever thrill them, and when they
order three hundred and fifty dollars' worth of duds from the Boston Cash Emporium and dress
up like a foreign countess, they don't do it for Father, they do it for the romantic guy in
the magazine serial they're reading, the handsome, cynical adventurer that has such an awful
power over women. They know darned well they won't ever meet him; still it's just as well to
be ready in case he ever should make Red Gap--or wherever they live--and it's easy with the
charge account there, and Father never fussing more than a little about the bills.

"Not that I blame 'em. We're all alike--innocent enough, with freaks here and there that ain't.
Why, I remember about a thousand years ago I was reading a book called 'Lillian's Honour,'
in which the rightful earl didn't act like an earl had ought to, but went travelling off over
the moors with a passel of gypsies, with all the she-gypsies falling in love with him, and
no wonder--he was that dashing. Well, I used to think what might happen if he should come along
while Lysander John was out with the beef round-up or something. I was well-meaning, understand,
but at that I'd ought to have been laid out with a pick-handle. Oh, the nicest of us got specks
inside us--if ever we did cut loose the best one of us would make the worst man of you look
like nothing worse than a naughty little boy cutting up in Sunday-school. What holds us, of
course--we always dream of being took off our feet; of being carried off by main force against
our wills while we snuggle up to the romantic brute and plead with him to spare us--and the
most reckless of 'em don't often get their nerve up to that. Well, as I was saying--"

But she was not saying. The thing moved too slowly. And still the woman paltered with her poisoned
tea and made cigarettes and muttered inconsequently, as when she now broke out after a glance
at the photograph:

"That Ben Sutton certainly runs amuck when he buys his vests. He must have about fifty, and
the quietest one in the lot would make a leopard skin look like a piker." Again her glance
dreamed off to visions.

I seated myself before her with some emphasis and said firmly: "Now, then!" It worked.

"Wilfred Lennox," she began, "calling himself the hobo poet, gets into Red Gap one day and
makes the rounds with that there piece of poetry you see; pushes into stores and offices and
hands the piece out, and like as not they crowd a dime or two bits onto him and send him along.
That's what I done. I was waiting in Dr. Percy Hailey Martingale's office for a little painless
dentistry, and I took Wilfred's poem and passed him a two-bit piece, and Doc Martingale does
the same, and Wilfred blew on to the next office. A dashing and romantic figure he was, though
kind of fat and pasty for a man that was walking from coast to coast, but a smooth talker with
beautiful features and about nine hundred dollars' worth of hair and a soft hat and one of
these flowing neckties. Red it was.

"So I looked over his piece of poetry--about the open road for his untamed spirit and him being
stifled in the cramped haunts of men--and of course I get his number. All right about the urge
of the wild to her wayward child, but here he was spending a lot of time in the cramped haunts
of men taking their small change away from 'em and not seeming to stifle one bit.

"Ain't this new style of tramp funny? Now instead of coming round to the back door and asking
for a hand-out like any self-respecting tramp had ought to, they march up to the front door,
and they're somebody with two or three names that's walking round the world on a wager they
made with one of the Vanderbilt boys or John D. Rockefeller. They've walked thirty-eight hundred
miles already and got the papers to prove it--a letter from the mayor of Scranton, Pennsylvania,
and the mayor of Davenport, Iowa, a picture post card of themselves on the courthouse steps
at Denver, and they've bet forty thousand dollars they could start out without a cent and come
back in twenty-two months with money in their pocket--and ain't it a good joke?--with everybody
along the way entering into the spirit of it and passing them quarters and such, and thank
you very much for your two bits for the picture post card--and they got another showing 'em
in front of the Mormon Tabernacle at Salt Lake City, if you'd like that, too--and thank you
again--and now they'll be off once more to the open road and the wild, free life. Me shortly
learn, however-- the rest of the day to be spent in a route march to Chalk, a stream about ten
miles further north, and think bivouac will be made there. As he have our blankets following we
think what is in the wind. Blankets are to be worn "en banderole." I guess I've seen eight or ten of them boys in the
last five years, with their letters from mayors.

"But this here Wilfred Lennox had a new graft. He was the first I'd give up to for mere poetry.
He didn't have a single letter from a mayor, nor even a picture card of himself standing with
his hat off in front of Pike's Peak--nothing but poetry. But, as I said, he was there with
a talk about pining for the open road and despising the cramped haunts of men, and he had appealing
eyes and all this flowing hair and necktie. So I says to myself: 'All right, Wilfred, you win!'
and put my purse back in my bag and thought no more of it.

"Yet not so was it to be. Wilfred, working the best he could to make a living doing nothing,
pretty soon got to the office of Alonzo Price, Choice Improved Real Estate and Price's Addition.
Lon was out for the moment, but who should be there waiting for him but his wife, Mrs. Henrietta
Templeton Price, recognized leader of our literary and artistic set. Or I think they call it
a 'group' or a 'coterie' or something. Setting at Lon's desk she was, toying petulantly with
horrid old pens and blotters, and probably bestowing glances of disrelish from time to time
round the grimy office where her scrubby little husband toiled his days away in unromantic squalor.

"I got to tell you about Henrietta. She's one of them like I just said the harsh things about,
with the secret cry in her heart for romance and adventure and other forbidden things and with
a kindly contempt for peaceful Alonzo. She admits to being thirty-six, so you can figure it
out for yourself. Of course she gets her husband wrong at that, as women so often do. Alonzo
has probably the last pair of side whiskers outside of a steel engraving and stands five feet
two, weighing a hundred and twenty-six pounds at the ring side, but he's game as a swordfish,
and as for being romantic in the true sense of the word--well, no one that ever heard him sell
a lot in Price's Addition--three miles and a half up on the mesa, with only the smoke of the
canning factory to tell a body they was still near the busy haunts of men, that and a mile
of concrete sidewalk leading a life of complete idleness--I say no one that ever listened to
Lon sell a lot up there, pointing out on a blue print the proposed site of the Carnegie Library,
would accuse him of not being romantic.

"But of course Henrietta never sees Lon's romance and he ain't always had the greatest patience
with hers--like the time she got up the Art Loan Exhibit to get new books for the M.E. Sabbath-school
library and got Spud Mulkins of the El Adobe to lend 'em the big gold-framed oil painting that
hangs over his bar. Whether there was any truth in this myth we never found out, but we did see an aeroplane
forced down behind our lines by Robert lorraine, the aviator, on October 26th, after a pretty
daring waiting their fight.

This individual
was supposed to be an artillery officer who spotted for his own battery-- which always incidentally
did the most very shooting-- from an aeroplane, in which he performed the
most anti feats while dodging the "Archibalds" or marvellous-firm
shells. He wouldn't reason with Henrietta either. He just
said his objection was that every man that saw it would put one foot up groping for the brass
railing, which would be undignified for a Sabbath-school scheme, and that she'd better hunt
out something with clothes on like Whistler's portrait of his mother, or, if she wanted the
nude in art, to get the Horse Fair or something with animals.

"I tell you that to show you how they don't hit it off sometimes. Then Henrietta sulks. Kind
of pinched and hungry looking she is, drapes her black hair down over one side of her high
forehead, wears daring gowns--that's what she calls 'em anyway--and reads the most outrageous
kinds of poetry out loud to them that will listen. Likes this Omar Something stuff about your
path being beset with pitfalls and gin fizzes and getting soused out under a tree with your girl.

"I'm just telling you so you'll get Henrietta when Wilfred Lennox drips gracefully in with
his piece of poetry in one hand. Of course she must have looked long and nervously at Wilfred,
then read his poetry, then looked again. There before her was Romance against a background
of Alonzo Price, who never had an adventurous or evil thought in his life, and wore rubbers!
Oh, sure! He must have palsied her at once, this wild, free creature of the woods who couldn't
stand the cramped haunts of men. And I have said that Wilfred was there with the wild, free
words about himself, and the hat and tie and the waving brown hair that give him so much trouble.
Shucks! I don't blame the woman. It's only a few years since we been let out from under lock
and key. Give us a little time to get our bearings, say I. Wilfred was just one big red splash
before her yearning eyes; he blinded her. And he stood there telling how this here life in
the marts of trade would sure twist and blacken some of the very finest chords in his being.
Something like that it must have been.

"Anyway, about a quarter to six a procession went up Fourth Street, consisting of Wilfred Lennox,
Henrietta, and Alonzo. The latter was tripping along about three steps back of the other two
and every once in a while he would stop for a minute and simply look puzzled. I saw him. It's
really a great pity Lon insists on wearing a derby hat with his side whiskers. To my mind the
two never seem meant for each other.

"The procession went to the Price mansion up on Ophir Avenue. And that evening Henrietta had
in a few friends to listen to the poet recite his verses and tell anecdotes about himself.
About five or six ladies in the parlour and their menfolks smoking out on the front porch.
The men didn't seem to fall for Wilfred's open-road stuff the way the ladies did. Wilfred was
a good reciter and held the ladies with his voice and his melting blue eyes with the long lashes,
and Henrietta was envied for having nailed him. That is, the women envied her. The men sort
of slouched off down to the front gate and then went down to the Temperance Billiard Parlour,
where several of 'em got stewed. Most of 'em, like old Judge Ballard, who come to the country
in '62, and Jeff Tuttle, who's always had more than he wanted of the open road, were very cold
indeed to Wilfred's main proposition. It is probable that low mutterings might have been heard
among 'em, especially after a travelling man that was playing pool said the hobo poet had come
in on the Pullman of No. 6.

"But I must say that Alonzo didn't seem to mutter any, from all I could hear. Pathetic, the
way that little man will believe right up to the bitter end. He said that for a hobo Wilfred
wrote very good poetry, better than most hobos could write, he thought, and that Henrietta
always knew what she was doing. So the evening come to a peaceful end, most of the men getting
back for their wives and Alonzo showing up in fair shape and plumb eager for the comfort of
his guest. It was Alonzo's notion that the guest would of course want to sleep out in the front
yard on the breast of old earth where he could look up at the pretty stars and feel at home,
and he was getting out a roll of blankets when the guest said he didn't want to make the least
bit of trouble and for one night he'd manage to sleep inside four stifling walls in a regular
bed, like common people do. So Lon bedded him down in the guest chamber, but opened up the
four windows in it and propped the door wide open so the poor fellow could have a breeze and
not smother. He told this downtown the next morning, and he was beginning to look right puzzled
indeed. He said the wayward child of Nature had got up after about half an hour and shut all
the windows and the door. Lon thought first he was intending to commit suicide, but he didn't
like to interfere. He was telling Jeff Tuttle and me about it when we happened to pass his office.

"'And there's another funny thing,'" he says. 'This chap was telling us all the way up home
last night that he never ate meat--simply fruits and nuts with a mug of spring water. He said
eating the carcasses of murdered beasts was abhorrent to him. But when we got down to the table
he consented to partake of the roast beef and he did so repeatedly. We usually have cold meat
for lunch the day after a rib roast, but there will be something else to-day; and along with
the meat he drank two bottles of beer, though with mutterings of disgust. He said spring water
in the hills was pure, but that water out of pipes was full of typhoid germs. He admitted that
there were times when the grosser appetites assailed him. And they assailed him this morning,
too. He said he might bring himself to eat some chops, and he did it without scarcely a struggle.
He ate six. He said living the nauseous artificial life even for one night brought back the
hateful meat craving. I don't know. He is undeniably peculiar. And of course you've heard about
Pettikin's affair for this evening?'

"We had. Just before leaving the house I had received Henrietta's card inviting me to the country
club that evening 'to meet Mr. Wilfred Lennox, Poet and Nature Lover, who will recite his original
verses and give a brief talk on "The World's Debt to Poetry."' And there you have the whole
trouble. Henrietta should have known better. But I've let out what women really are. I told
Alonzo I would sure be among those present, I said it sounded good. And then Alonzo pipes up
about Ben Sutton coming to town on the eleven forty-two from the West. Ben makes a trip out
of Alaska every summer and never fails to stop off a day or two with Lon, they having been
partners up North in '98.

"'Good old Ben will enjoy it, too,' says Alonzo; 'and, furthermore, Ben will straighten out
one or two little things that have puzzled me about this poet. He will understand his complex
nature in a way that I confess I have been unequal to. What I mean is,' he says, 'there was
talk when I left this morning of the poet consenting to take a class in poetry for several
weeks in our thriving little city, and Henrietta was urging him to make our house his home.
I have a sort of feeling that Ben will be able to make several suggestions of prime value.
I have never known him to fail at making suggestions.'

"Funny, the way the little man tried to put it over on us, letting on he was just puzzled--not
really bothered, as he plainly was. You knew Henrietta was still seeing the big red splash
of Romance, behind which the figure of her husband was totally obscured. Jeff Tuttle saw the
facts, and he up and spoke in a very common way about what would quickly happen to any tramp
that tried to camp in his house, poet or no poet, but that's neither here nor there. We left
Alonzo looking cheerily forward to Ben Sutton on the eleven forty-two, and I went on to do
some errands.

"In the course of these I discovered that others besides Henrietta had fell hard for the poet
of Nature. I met Mrs. Dr. Percy Hailey Martingale and she just bubbles about him, she having
been at the Prices' the night before.

"'Isn't he a glorious thing!' she says; 'and how grateful we should be for the dazzling bit
of colour he brings into our drab existence!' She is a good deal like that herself at times.
And I met Beryl Mae Macomber, a well known young society girl of seventeen, and Beryl Mae says:
'He's awfully good looking, but do you think he's sincere?' And even Mrs. Judge Ballard comes
along and says: 'What a stimulus he should be to us in our dull lives! How he shows us the
big, vital bits!' and her at that very minute going into Bullitt & Fleishacker's to buy shoes
for her nine year old twin grandsons! Lyte, however, is nothink to the occasion, and calls in the reading
signallers "tell the fool to semaphore!" Lyte groans. "he carn't," gasps the east to a whisper;
"he'Morse equal, an'he don't know horrified but s." But, of course, she was a minister's wife. I said he made me
feel just like that. I said so to all of 'em. What else could I say? If I'd said what I thought
there on the street I'd of been pinched. So I beat it home in self-protection. I was sympathizing
good and hearty with Lon Price by that time and looking forward to Ben Sutton myself. I had
a notion Ben would see the right of it where these poor dubs of husbands wouldn't--or wouldn't
dast say it if they did.

"About five o'clock I took another run downtown for some things I'd forgot, with an eye out
to see how Alonzo and Ben might be coming on. The fact is, seeing each other only once a year
that way they're apt to kind of loosen up--if you know what I mean.

"No sign of 'em at first. Nothing but ladies young and old--even some of us older ranching
set--making final purchases of ribbons and such for the sole benefit of Wilfred Lennox, and
talking in a flushed manner about him whenever they met. Almost every darned one of 'em had
made it a point to stroll past the Price mansion that afternoon where Wilfred was setting out
on the lawn, in a wicker chair with some bottles of beer surveying Nature with a look of lofty
approval and chatting with Henrietta about the real things of life.

