DEDICATION

                    To my dear Alexandre de Berny.
                           His old friend,

                             De Balzac.

MADAME FIRMIANI

Many tales, either rich in situations or made dramatic by some of the innumerable tricks of
chance, carry with them their own particular setting, which can be rendered artistically or
simply by those who narrate them, without their subjects losing any, even the least of their
charms. But there are some incidents in human experience to which the heart alone is able to
give life; there are certain details--shall we call them anatomical?--the delicate touches
of which cannot be made to reappear unless by an equally delicate rendering of thought; there
are portraits which require the infusion of a soul, and mean nothing unless the subtlest expression
of the speaking countenance is given; furthermore, there are things which we know not how to
say or do without the aid of secret harmonies which a day, an hour, a fortunate conjunction
of celestial signs, or an inward moral tendency may produce. He says that the narcissistic
Greek is not natural and ever, but migratory and temporary. Said to be the first secretary of the
legation of Spain in Athens and Constantinople, who came to Madrid for four months of licensed
real.

(Back Manolita to talk by phone.)

Listen, Father González, whatever it is, you have nearly all the guilt that I have known and
treated narcissist, I have walked with him through the deserted streets of Retiro and along
the banks of the pond, leaving Dona Rita very respectable distance:
so so You Have pity on us and preach to my mother and generally not
to persist in that I get married with that abominable nephew ...

Heavens!

What props horrible, how complicated conspiracy against a poor inexperienced
girl. If he has never
buried a good old relative, infirm and poor, he will not understand these pages, which to some
will seem redolent of musk, to others as colorless and virtuous as those of Florian. In short,
the reader must have known the luxury of tears, must have felt the silent pangs of a passing
memory, the vision of a dear yet far-off Shade,--memories which bring regret for all that earth
has swallowed up, with smiles for vanished joys.

And now, believe that the writer would not, for the wealth of England, steal from poesy a single
lie with which to embellish this narrative. The following is a true history, on which you may
safely spend the treasures of your sensibility--if you have any.

In these days the French language has as many idioms and represents as many idiosyncracies
as there are varieties of men in the great family of France. It is extremely curious and amusing
to listen to the different interpretations or versions of the same thing or the same event
by the various species which compose the genus Parisian,--"Parisian" is here used merely to
generalize our remark.

Therefore, if you should say to an individual of the species Practical, "Do you know Madame
Firmiani?" he would present that lady to your mind by the following inventory: "Fine house
in the rue du Bac, salons handsomely furnished, good pictures, one hundred thousand francs
a year, husband formerly receiver-general of the department of Montenotte." So saying, the
Practical man, rotund and fat and usually dressed in black, will project his lower lip and
wrap it over the upper, nodding his head as if to add: "Solid people, those; nothing to be
said against them." Ask no further; Practical men settle everybody's status by figures, incomes,
or solid acres,--a phrase of their lexicon.

Turn to the right, and put the same question to that other man, who belongs to the species
Lounger. "Madame Firmiani?" he says; "yes, yes, I know her well; I go to her parties; receives
Wednesdays; highly creditable house."--Madame Firmiani is metamorphosed into a house! but the
house is not a pile of stones architecturally superposed, of course not, the word presents
in Lounger's language an indescribable idiom.--Here the Lounger, a spare man with an agreeable
smile, a sayer of pretty nothings with more acquired cleverness than native wit, stoops to
your ear and adds, with a shrewd glance: "I have never seen Monsieur Firmiani. His social position
is that of looking after property in Italy. Madame Firmiani is a Frenchwoman, and spends her
money like a Parisian. She has excellent tea. It is one of the few houses where you can amuse
yourself; the refreshments are exquisite. It is very difficult to get admitted; therefore,
of course, one meets only the best society in her salons." Here the Lounger takes a pinch of
snuff; he inhales it slowly and seems to say: "I go there, but don't expect me to present you."

Evidently the Lounger considers that Madame Firmiani keeps a sort of inn, without a sign.

"Why do you want to know Madame Firmiani? Her parties are as dull as the Court itself. What
is the good of possessing a mind unless to avoid such salons, where stupid talk and foolish
little ballads are the order of the day." You have questioned a being classed Egotist, a species
who would like to keep the universe under lock and key, and let nothing be done without their
permission. Amparo
came to open the door and saw him, my God!, Cowardice is most distressing possession of his
mind. In the eyes of those loyal eyes, the penitent was stiff, and confession was given as impossible
as a stab ... Olvidáronsele the words he had designed to begin. Augustine spoke of ordinary
things, she would answer turbadísima. It I had forgotten how to breathe. And what's stupidity
for your understanding! To answer several questions that Knight made him, had to think long.

His agitation was slowly dissipating. The symposium was discreet, perhaps too discreet and cold
to be loving. Knight was also embarrassed to find himself alone with his beloved. There was
dramatic passages of his life, made a witty and delicate criticism of the Bringas. Then turned
to speak from themselves. He was thrilled I was to make his desire vivo. He wanted to quiet
love, their eyes of the soul, more on the charms of living home, always busy and affectionate,
that the unequal concern of passion. Already had more forty autumns, and what man of great sense,
his greatest desire was to have a family and live legal life around, surrounding himself with
honesty, comfort, peace, enjoying the performance of duties in the company of people who loved
and honored him. God had in store the woman who suited him, and found it so perfect, that
if he had instructed the Heaven does not come better ... She, meanwhile, looked at him as
Providence made man. Without knowing why, since he saw a man considerole model, and if he had
a thousand reasons to be loved, bastaríale for this generous kindness with which dropped to a
poor orphan girl and humble ...

While such sosadas said, if not these, with equivalent words, Amparo, within yes, I reasoned
otherwise:

"My God, I do not know where to stop ... I let go, let me go, and
every time I'm more criminal silent as corn.

The later I will confess right under your forgiveness.

"

- Tell me about your childhood, your past life.

Upon hearing this, the bride went from doubt to fear.

Would Knight guessed something?

"Ah, I was very unhappy."

- But now you'll be happy. Tell me something.

She then recalled some of the words he had thought, and spontaneity sum which if yielded to irresistible
force, was left to say:

"Before going further ...».

- What?

- I say ... nothing ... Is that I remembered when my poor father died
...

- Is this your picture? - Knight asked getting up to watch him
closely.

Meanwhile, Amparo said: "First I behead. I'm dying, but callus. "

The evening progressed. Augustine was there two hours and not allowed to leave over rape love
to kiss the hand of his girlfriend. He was a man whom the roughness of a rough fight large domain were
critical about himself.

But even with the power he had, there were unnecessary occasionally some efforts to support the
role of person impeccably austere legal, perfect wheel, clear running in the triple mechanism
of the state, religion and Family. One owner who was angry with Mompous because it wanted to
put in sharing contributions, a little less than his due, the man
who, by no religious blend in the concert of his time, had given some
money to the Pope could not in any way going to hold good for her
loving ways that were not right.

"Everything in order, say, or not live or live with the principles."

XXIV

After three days of absence, excused under the guise of serious occupations
at home, Amparo was the de Bringas.

Upstairs, he feared that the steps are finished. How Rosalia receive it, knowing as their courtship?
Because the orphan did not love her sublime friend, and that respect he was better qualified if
we give the name of fear.

The Mr D. Francisco itself inspired him affection, and thinking about the two and what they
say, came at home. Without knowing why, he gave him ashamed to be there with her dress fixed recently,
his new boots, her veil again as well. I thought shame to miss their poverty.

Rosalie went to meet him in the hallway, laughing, and then hugged
her fuss affected affection.

Such vehemence, as excessive should be something suspicious, but
Amparo cut like a schoolgirl who surprised in the arms of a sergeant,
admitted them as good.

A vehement followed ironies in very bad taste.

"Go, woman, thank God you look around here. As you are so lofty, and do not remember of these poor
... Good lottery you have fallen! No, do not deserve you, but I recognize that you good ... Better
luck ...! Sit ... Augustine wants to live with us, and we have no objection to it ... On the
contrary, we are pleased.

I do not know if you can accommodate in this narrowness, because
as you get the idea of ​​living in those palaces, this will seem like
a cabin.

"

Recovering, "said the girlfriend who was very grateful, but can not
leave her alone sister, continued to live at home, without going to
Rosalia, as always, help as I could.

"Go with Augustine, and how quiet it was! This man is all mystery. For you see, I do not would
trust a lot ... Yes, you can be here all day, eat with us, what little there. Then you go you
to your castle, and we will stay in our hut. Surely that bother you ... See what I doing now with you ...
Mom! But Augustine and you, what do not I? Sit ... I sew these sleeves ... Oh, no, what audacity!
Sorry. "

- Yes, yes, come ... Then there was always more ...

Bringas, who had just shaving in his room, left without wiping his glasses on the dining room rosy
face and highly polished.

"Amparo, how are you? I, well. Ah, bribonaza, what luck you had! ... You owe it to me. Good things
I told you cousin ... I've put parsley leaf, as you suggest. The truth, I have loved ... This
could be entitled The reward of virtue. Is what I say, the merit is always rewarded. "

Shortly after this, Bringas and his wife are secreted into the office.

"Augustine is going to have carriage. It has already commissioned Paris. "

- Ah !...-- exclaimed the lady, spongy, and it seemed to be sprawling in the soft car of your
friends.

- We need to treat her well.

Will pass in all theaters.

- Amparo - Pipaón said shortly after his protegee -; look, do not get tired at the sight point so often.
Tomorrow or go with me to the shops. Augustine has instructed me to you make multiple purchases,
and you see ... should you give your mind and choose what you like, since everything is for
you. Also I have to procure some frippery, it is indispensable we go to the dance palace ...
Come to my room, you'll see the peach-colored dress that His Majesty has commanded me.

This indispensable assistance of the dance brought to Thiers thoughtfully,
as though expenses were not many, its sales exceeded those of the
whole chapter of the superfluous, for three months.

But with bold headings rigor Bringas overthrew allocated to the same requirement vital, and the
family was ordered not to get their yantares for a month, rather
than the precise not to starve.

And when he could no longer are decorated with the coat of six years, had to undertake one,
using a tailor who owed him favors and that it made for the cost of cloth. Orders were run for
the kids throw up in February the shoes they had, and was abolished in light of the reception,
the tip of the serene and other things. Rosalia, always troubled by the growing shortage,
the future looked black, darkened even further with the announcements of revolution were in
every mouth. One thing consoled him. His daughter had already piano teacher, and receive that part
of education as necessary in a young man of good family. And the girl was so applied that all
the holy week and part of the night was easy fingering their studies; novelty found Amparo
the house that day.

The annoying music and the mind-numbing conversation led Mr. de Torres spirit with a big bore.
Knight was at nightfall, and after a while pleasant gathering took her to his house. This time
Rosalie him and no custom tubes, cotton balls, buttons or sticks or tape, and sent her away,
like Bringas with honeyed palabrillas.

Taking in the solitude of his home, Amparo had that night a happy thought. He did not know as
it had happened right thing, and felt that the Holy Spirit had taken work to inspire. The happy
idea was to call for help from religion. Confessing his sin before God, He would not give enough
value to declare to a man? Clear yes. She had never downloaded his consciousness of that weight as ordered
by Jesus Christ.

His devotion was warm and routine. Do not go to church but to hear Mass, and although more than
one Once he came to be approaching the tribunal of penance, was very afraid to do so. His sin
was huge and would not fit through the agujerillos of a confessional grille, large for the
human voice, guys, in their view, for the passage of certain crimes.

"Nothing, nothing - a lot with this comforting thought, full of joy - and one day either, then I prepare
well, I confess to God, and then ... surely I will have a very large value. "

What a successful project! ... Rely on religion, which is nothing if not the bread of the afflicted,
the sinners, those who are hungry for peace! And it's very silly had not undergone the procedure
you lie so simple, so natural ...! Would, itself, determined and courageous, the divine tribunal.
If it was strength of mind only with the intent, what when the attempt would continue achieving it? The
fear was always an act so grave, vanished as, and if the priest, seeing deeply repentant, he forgave,
he had soul force enough to be presented to the man she loved and say, "I made a huge failure,
but I'm sorry. God has forgiven me. If you'll excuse me, fine. If not, goodbye ... each at home.
"

All he saw, all supported its Christian idea, heaven and earth, and even objects more rebellious to
the embodiment animated beings were exchanged for proud and happy.

The portrait of her father congratulated her with honest eyes, saying: "But, silly, if you I've
been speaking so long, and you not wanting to understand ...!».

The night was spent joyful. Oh advantages of a good purpose! In diseases of consciousness the
desire of medicine is half the cure. He thought a lot during the night about what it would
the cure, how would the face and voice.

However great was their shame before God, easier it would shed its
sin in all confessionals in Christendom in the ears your trusted lover.

But I was sure that once taken that step, everything else is easier greatly.

Waited three days and the fourth, getting up early, went to the Good Bliss. Entered shaking.
Figurábase that in there were already news of what was going to tell and someone had to say: "We
are already aware, girl." But the quiet solemnity of the church will calm returned and saw evidence
of the act judiciously to be undertaken. And by God long duration. The pious knees waiting
for a convenient distance, and were of those who go every day to
see rogue and stun the confessors, were impatient the delay, denying
the heaviness of that lady, she must be a well of guilt.

When he retired from the confessional was a great relief and previously unknown spiritual forces.
How they had slipped their faint words huequecillos by the fence,
neither it knew.

It was enchantment, or speaking in Christian, was a miracle.

Asombrábase her that her lips had said what they said, and even after
making the confession, it seemed that had been crossed in the grating
expressions that were quite thin, very remorseful to enter.

The priest one to whom the sinner has not seen, was very kind, Tell them that terrible things, followed
by other fresh and comforting. Oh, penance, bitter balsamic pain cure! It was like a suicide
when the sinner was torn chest and taught his conscience order to see everything that was in
it. Displaying the corrupt, it also showed healthy.

The priest had promised to forgive, but delaying the time the penitent absolution had revealed his
guilt to the man who wanted to take her to wife. I thought it as reasonable under as if it
were spoken by God himself, and promised with his whole soul obey blindly.

Before leaving the church an unpleasant vision disturbed the peace of mind. Back in the end of
the ship saw a woman dressed in black, sitting on a bench, which did not detract eyes. Was Doña
Marcelina Polo.

The penitent was covering her face with her mantilla veil wishing not to be known, but neither of
those ... The other would not let her rest even for a point martyrdom
of their looks.

In short, Amparo, who expected to hear two masses, left after to
hear one.

Upon returning home measured the forces that had been born and was
amazed at how big they were.

"Now I say it - I thought - and now
another. No Words fail me, as I do not lack courage. So certain is
that talk, as now is the day ... Let's see, begins: "Today I confessed
!...» From this to the rest is plain the road. I'll say, 'I had a
great sin. " 'What is it? "What I can I know? ". 'Not only can you
but you should know, because before you know it, I do not think getting
married. " Word after word, going out, going out the thing as it came
in the confessional. If after knowing my regret, he insists, will
make him go and live status to a foreign country to avoid complications.
"

Segura and courageous, he ardently desired that Knight came early
to raise the issue since the entry. That day could not miss. Had concluded
that she did not come out on Tuesdays Caballero and Friday and the
visit on these days to speak more freely than in the Bringas house.
It was Friday.

Shelter that day was very cheerful.

"I know - he
said - that you visit. Donna has told me Tia. Girl, you're in luck.
"

Amparo eluded conversation as dangerous, and not wanting to give
his candid explanation yet sister invited him to leave, at once. No
request was made for each other. His painter expected to model the
figure of a pestle callipygian helping to bury the victims of 2 May.
Hastily swallowing his brief lunch, went out.

Shortly after the doorbell
rang. Would he? It was still early ... Jesus a thousand times, the
postman! ... In the hands of one man received a letter Amparo, and
watch and tremble from head to toe all was one. Gazed without daring
to open it. He knew the superscription hated. For Celedonia that days
before was to ask for alms, he knew his enemy was in the field, but
NO PECH the wretch who had the craving to write. "It would open the
letter, or throw in fire without reading it? And at what times Satan
came to disturb his mind when he had put in peace with God, when he
strengthened his conscience!

"But I will read it - he said -, I'll
read it, because what he says will increase my holy horror, and give
me strength even greater. Today God can not send me a new sentence,
but the former relief. "

XXV

The letter was written in pencil, and
read:

"The chestnuts, December 19, 1867. Everything about her pleases the eye; in her presence you breathe,
as it were, your native air. This woman is natural. There is no effort about her; she is aiming
at no effect; her feelings are shown simply, because they are true. Frank herself, she does
not wound the vanity of others; she accepts men as God made them; pitying the vicious, forgiving
defects and absurdities, comprehending all ages, and vexed by nothing, because she has had
the sense and tact to foresee all. Tender and gay, she gratifies before she consoles. You love
her so well that if this angel did wrong you would be ready to excuse her. If, for your happiness,
you have met with such a woman, you know Madame Firmiani.

After Monsieur de Bourbonne had talked with her for ten minutes, sitting beside her, his nephew
was forgiven. He perceived that whatever the actual truth might be, the relation between Madame
Firmiani and Octave covered some mystery. Returning to the illusions that gild the days of
youth, and judging Madame Firmiani by her beauty, the old gentleman became convinced that a
woman so innately conscious of her dignity as she appeared to be was incapable of a bad action.
Her dark eyes told of inward peace; the lines of her face were so noble, the profile so pure,
and the passion he had come to investigate seemed so little to oppress her heart, that the
old man said to himself, while noting all the promises of love and virtue given by that adorable
countenance, "My nephew is committing some folly."

Madame Firmiani acknowledged to twenty-five. But the Practicals proved that having married
the invisible Firmiani (then a highly respectable individual in the forties) in 1813, at the
age of sixteen, she must be at least twenty-eight in 1825. However the same persons also asserted
that at no period of her life had she ever been so desirable or so completely a woman. She
was now at an age when women are most prone to conceive a passion, and to desire it, perhaps,
in their pensive hours. She possessed all that earth sells, all that it lends, all that it
gives. The Attaches declared there was nothing of which she was ignorant; the Contradictors
asserted that there was much she ought to learn; the Observers remarked that her hands were
white, her feet small, her movements a trifle too undulating. But, nevertheless, individuals
of all species envied or disputed Octave's happiness, agreeing, for once in a way, that Madame
Firmiani was the most aristocratically beautiful woman in Paris.

Still young, rich, a perfect musician, intelligent, witty, refined, and received (as a Cadignan)
by the Princesse de Blamont-Chauvry, that oracle of the noble faubourg, loved by her rivals
the Duchesse de Maufrigneuse her cousin, the Marquise d'Espard, and Madame de Macumer,--Madame
Firmiani gratified all the vanities which feed or excite love. She was therefore sought by
too many men not to fall a victim to Parisian malice and its charming calumnies, whispered
behind a fan or in a safe aside. It was necessary to quote the remarks given at the beginning
of this history to bring out the true Firmiani in contradistinction to the Firmiani of society.
If some women forgave her happiness, others did not forgive her propriety. Now nothing is so
dangerous in Paris as unfounded suspicions,--for the reason that it is impossible to destroy them.

This sketch of a woman who was admirably natural gives only a faint idea of her. It would need
the pencil of an Ingres to render the pride of that brow, with its wealth of hair, the dignity
of that glance, and the thoughts betrayed by the changing colors of her cheeks. In her were
all things; poets could have found an Agnes Sorel and a Joan of Arc, also the woman unknown,
the Soul within that form, the soul of Eve, the knowledge of the treasures of good and the
riches of evil, error and resignation, crime and devotion, the Donna Julia and the Haidee of
Lord Byron.

The former guardsman stayed, with apparent impertinence, after the other guests had left the
salons; and Madame Firmiani found him sitting quietly before her in an armchair, evidently
determined to remain, with the pertinacity of a fly which we are forced to kill to get rid
of it. The hands of the clock marked two in the morning.

"Madame," said the old gentlemen, as Madame Firmiani rose, hoping to make him understand that
it was her good pleasure he should go, "Madame, I am the uncle of Monsieur Octave de Camps."

Madame Firmiani immediately sat down again, and showed her emotion. In spite of his sagacity
the old Planter was unable to decide whether she turned pale from shame or pleasure. There
are pleasures, delicious emotions the chaste heart seeks to veil, which cannot escape the shock
of startled modesty. The more delicacy a woman has, the more she seeks to hide the joys that
are in her soul. Many women, incomprehensible in their tender caprices, long to hear a name
pronounced which at other times they desire to bury in their hearts. Monsieur de Bourbonne
did not interpret Madame Firmiani's agitation exactly in this way: pray forgive him, all provincials
are distrustful.

"Well, monsieur?" said Madame Firmiani, giving him one of those clear, lucid glances in which
we men can never see anything because they question us too much.

"Well, madame," returned the old man, "do you know what some one came to tell me in the depths
of my province? That my nephew had ruined himself for you, and that the poor fellow was living
in a garret while you were in silk and gold. Forgive my rustic sincerity; it may be useful
for you to know of these calumnies."

"Stop, monsieur," said Madame Firmiani, with an imperative gesture; "I know all that. You are
too polite to continue this subject if I request you to leave it, and too gallant--in the old-fashioned
sense of the word," she added with a slight tone of irony--"not to agree that you have no right
to question me. It would be ridiculous in me to defend myself. I trust that you will have a
sufficiently good opinion of my character to believe in the profound contempt which, I assure
you, I feel for money,--although I was married, without any fortune, to a man of immense wealth.
It is nothing to me whether your nephew is rich or poor; if I have received him in my house,
and do now receive him, it is because I consider him worthy to be counted among my friends.
All my friends, monsieur, respect each other; they know that I have not philosophy enough to
admit into my house those I do not esteem; this may argue a want of charity; but my guardian-angel
has maintained in me to this day a profound aversion for tattle, and also for dishonesty."

Through the ring of her voice was slightly raised during the first part of this answer, the
last words were said with the ease and self-possession of Celimene bantering the Misanthrope.

"Madame," said Monsieur de Bourbonne, in a voice of some emotion, "I am an old man; I am almost
Octave's father, and I ask your pardon most humbly for the question that I shall now venture
to put to you, giving you my word of honor as a loyal gentleman that your answer shall die
here,"--laying his hand upon his heart, with an old-fashioned gesture that was truly religious.
"Are these rumors true; do you love Octave?"

"Monsieur," she replied, "to any other man I should answer that question only by a look; but
to you, and because you are indeed almost the father of Monsieur de Camps, I reply by asking
what you would think of a woman if to such a question she answered you? To avow our love for
him we love, when he loves us--ah! that may be; but even when we are certain of being loved
forever, believe me, monsieur, it is an effort for us, and a reward to him. To say to another!--"

She did not end her sentence, but rose, bowed to the old man, and withdrew into her private
apartments, the doors of which, opening and closing behind her, had a language of their own
to his sagacious ears.

"Ah! the mischief!" thought he; "what a woman! she is either a sly one or an angel"; and he
got into his hired coach, the horses of which were stamping on the pavement of the silent courtyard,
while the coachman was asleep on his box after cursing for the hundredth time his tardy customer.

The next morning about eight o'clock the old gentleman mounted the stairs of a house in the
rue de l'Observance where Octave de Camps was living. If there was ever an astonished man it
was the young professor when he beheld his uncle. The door was unlocked, his lamp still burning;
he had been sitting up all night.

"You rascal!" said Monsieur de Bourbonne, sitting down in the nearest chair; "since when is
it the fashion to laugh at uncles who have twenty-six thousand francs a year from solid acres
to which we are the sole heir? Let me tell you that in the olden time we stood in awe of such
uncles as that. Come, speak up, what fault have you to find with me? Haven't I played my part
as uncle properly? Did I ever require you to respect me? Have I ever refused you money? When
did I shut the door in your face on pretence that you had come to look after my health? Haven't
you had the most accommodating and the least domineering uncle that there is in France,--I
won't say Europe, because that might be too presumptuous. You write to me, or you don't write,--no
matter, I live on pledged affection, and I am making you the prettiest estate in all Touraine,
the envy of the department. To be sure, I don't intend to let you have it till the last possible
moment, but that's an excusable little fancy, isn't it? And what does monsieur himself do?--sells
his own property and lives like a lackey!--"

"Uncle--"

"I'm not talking about uncles, I'm talking nephew. I have a right to your confidence. Come,
confess at once; it is much the easiest way; I know that by experience. Have you been gambling?
have you lost money at the Bourse? Say, 'Uncle, I'm a wretch,' and I'll hug you. But if you
tell me any lies greater than those I used to tell at your age I'll sell my property, buy an
annuity, and go back to the evil ways of my youth--if I can."

"Uncle--"

"I saw your Madame Firmiani yesterday," went on the old fellow, kissing the tips of his fingers,
which he gathered into a bunch. "She is charming. You have the consent and approbation of your
uncle, if that will do you any good. As to the sanction of the Church I suppose that's useless,
and the sacraments cost so much in these days. Come, speak out, have you ruined yourself for her?"

"Yes, uncle."

"Ha! the jade! I'd have wagered it. In my time the women of the court were cleverer at ruining
a man than the courtesans of to-day; but this one--I recognized her!--it is a bit of the last
century."

"Uncle," said Octave, with a manner that was tender and grave, "you are totally mistaken. Madame
Firmiani deserves your esteem, and all the adoration the world gives her."

"Youth, youth! always the same!" cried Monsieur de Bourbonne. "Well, go on; tell me the same
old story. But please remember that my experience in gallantry is not of yesterday."

"My dear, kind uncle, here is a letter which will tell you nearly all," said Octave, taking
it from an elegant portfolio, her gift, no doubt. "When you have read it I will tell you the
rest, and you will then know a Madame Firmiani who is unknown to the world."

"I haven't my spectacles; read it aloud."

Octave began:--

  "'My beloved--'"

"Hey, then you are still intimate with her?" interrupted his uncle.

"Why yes, of course."

"You haven't parted from her?"

"Parted!" repeated Octave, "we are married."

"Heavens!" cried Monsieur de Bourbonne, "then why do you live in a garret?"

"Let me go on."

"True--I'm listening."

Octave resumed the letter, but there were passages which he could not read without deep emotion.

  "'My beloved Husband,--You ask me the reason of my sadness. Has
  it, then, passed from my soul to my face; or have you only guessed
  it?--but how could you fail to do so, one in heart as we are? I
  cannot deceive you; this may be a misfortune, for it is one of the
  conditions of happy love that a wife shall be gay and caressing.
  Perhaps I ought to deceive you, but I would not do it even if the
  happiness with which you have blessed and overpowered me depended
  on it.

  "'Ah! dearest, how much gratitude there is in my love. I long to
  love you forever, without limit; yes, I desire to be forever proud
  of you. A woman's glory is in the man she loves. Esteem,
  consideration, honor, must they not be his who receives our all?
  Well, my angel has fallen. Yes, dear, the tale you told me has
  tarnished my past joys. Since then I have felt myself humiliated
  in you,--you whom I thought the most honorable of men, as you are
  the most loving, the most tender. I must indeed have deep
  confidence in your heart, so young and pure, to make you this
  avowal which costs me much. Ah! my dear love, how is it that you,
  knowing your father had unjustly deprived others of their
  property, that YOU can keep it?

  "'And you told me of this criminal act in a room filled with the
  mute witnesses of our love; and you are a gentleman, and you think
  yourself noble, and I am yours! I try to find excuses for you; I
  do find them in your youth and thoughtlessness. I know there is
  still something of the child about you. Perhaps you have never
  thought seriously of what fortune and integrity are. Oh! how your
  laugh wounded me. Reflect on that ruined family, always in
  distress; poor young girls who have reason to curse you daily; an
  old father saying to himself each night: "We might not now be
  starving if that man's father had been an honest man--"'"

"Good heavens!" cried Monsieur de Bourbonne, interrupting his nephew, "surely you have not
been such a fool as to tell that woman about your father's affair with the Bourgneufs? Women
know more about wasting a fortune than making one."

"They know about integrity. But let me read on, uncle."

  "'Octave, no power on earth has authority to change the principles
  of honor. Look into your conscience and ask it by what name you
  are to call the action by which you hold your property.'"

The nephew looked at the uncle, who lowered his head.

  "'I will not tell you all the thoughts that assail me; they can be
  reduced to one,--this is it: I cannot respect the man who,
  knowingly, is smirched for a sum of money, whatever the amount may
  be; five francs stolen at play or five times a hundred thousand
  gained by a legal trick are equally dishonoring. I will tell you
  all. I feel myself degraded by the very love which has hitherto
  been all my joy. There rises in my soul a voice which my
  tenderness cannot stifle. Ah! I have wept to feel that I have more
  conscience than love. Were you to commit a crime I would hide you
  in my bosom from human justice, but my devotion could go no
  farther. Love, to a woman, means boundless confidence, united to a
  need of reverencing, of esteeming, the being to whom she belongs.
  I have never conceived of love otherwise than as a fire in which
  all noble feelings are purified still more,--a fire which develops
  them.

  "'I have but one thing else to say: come to me poor, and my love
  shall be redoubled. If not, renounce it. Should I see you no more,
  I shall know what it means.

  "'But I do not wish, understand me, that you should make
  restitution because I urge it. Consult your own conscience. An act
  of justice such as that ought not to be a sacrifice made to love.
  I am your wife and not your mistress, and it is less a question of
  pleasing me than of inspiring in my soul a true respect.

  "'If I am mistaken, if you have ill-explained your father's
  action, if, in short, you still think your right to the property
  equitable (oh! how I long to persuade myself that you are
  blameless), consider and decide by listening to the voice of your
  conscience; act wholly and solely from yourself. A man who loves a
  woman sincerely, as you love me, respects the sanctity of her
  trust in him too deeply to dishonor himself.

  "'I blame myself now for what I have written; a word might have
  sufficed, and I have preached to you! Scold me; I wish to be
  scolded,--but not much, only a little. Dear, between us two the
  power is yours--you alone should perceive your own faults.'"

"Well, uncle?" said Octave, whose eyes were full of tears.

"There's more in the letter; finish it."

"Oh, the rest is only to be read by a lover," answered Octave, smiling.

"Yes, right, my boy," said the old man, gently. "I have had many affairs in my day, but I beg
you to believe that I too have loved, 'et ego in Arcardia.' But I don't understand yet why
you give lessons in mathematics."

"My dear uncle, I am your nephew; isn't that as good as saying that I had dipped into the capital
left me by my father? After I had read this letter a sort of revolution took place within me.
I paid my whole arrearage of remorse in one day. I cannot describe to you the state I was in.
As I drove in the Bois a voice called to me, 'That horse is not yours'; when I ate my dinner
it was saying, 'You have stolen this food.' I was ashamed. The fresher my honesty, the more
intense it was. I rushed to Madame Firmiani. Uncle! that day I had pleasures of the heart,
enjoyments of the soul, that were far beyond millions. Together we made out the account of
what was due to the Bourgneufs, and I condemned myself, against Madame Firmiani's advice, to
pay three per cent interest. But all I had did not suffice to cover the full amount. We were
lovers enough for her to offer, and me to accept, her savings--"

"What! besides her other virtues does that adorable woman lay by money?" cried his uncle.

"Don't laugh at her, uncle; her position has obliged her to be very careful. Her husband went
to Greece in 1820 and died there three years later. It has been impossible, up to the present
time, to get legal proofs of his death, or obtain the will which he made leaving his whole
property to his wife. These papers were either lost or stolen, or have gone astray during the
troubles in Greece,--a country where registers are not kept as they are in France, and where
we have no consul. Uncertain whether she might not be forced to give up her fortune, she has
lived with the utmost prudence. As for me, I wish to acquire property which shall be mine,
so as to provide for my wife in case she is forced to lose hers."

"But why didn't you tell me all this? My dear nephew, you might have known that I love you
enough to pay all your good debts, the debts of a gentleman. I'll play the traditional uncle
now, and revenge myself!"

"Ah! uncle, I know your vengeance! but let me get rich by my own industry. If you want to do
me a real service, make me an allowance of two or three thousand francs a year, till I see
my way to an enterprise for which I shall want capital. At this moment I am so happy that all
I desire is just the means of living. I give lessons so that I may not live at the cost of
any one. If you only knew the happiness I had in making that restitution! I found the Bourgneufs,
after a good deal of trouble, living miserably and in need of everything. The old father was
a lottery agent; the two daughters kept his books and took care of the house; the mother was
always ill. The daughters are charming girls, but they have been cruelly taught that the world
thinks little of beauty without money. What a scene it was! I entered their house the accomplice
in a crime; I left it an honest man, who had purged his father's memory. Uncle, I don't judge
him; there is such excitement, such passion in a lawsuit that even an honorable man may be
led astray by them. Lawyers can make the most unjust claims legal; laws have convenient syllogisms
to quiet consciences. My visit was a drama. To be Providence itself; actually to fulfil that
futile wish, 'If heaven were to send us twenty thousand francs a year,'--that silly wish we
all make, laughing; to bring opulence to a family sitting by the light of one miserable lamp
over a poor turf fire!--no, words cannot describe it. My extreme justice seemed to them unjust.
Well! if there is a Paradise my father is happy in it now. As for me, I am loved as no man
was ever loved yet. Madame Firmiani gives me more than happiness; she has inspired me with
a delicacy of feeling I think I lacked. So I call her my dear conscience,--a love-word which
expresses certain secret harmonies within our hearts. I find honesty profitable; I shall get
rich in time by myself. I've an industrial scheme in my head, and if it succeeds I shall earn
millions."

"Ah! my boy, you have your mother's soul," said the old man, his eyes filling at the thought
of his sister.

Just then, in spite of the distance between Octave's garret and the street, the young man heard
the sound of a carriage.

"There she is!" he cried; "I know her horses by the way they are pulled up."

A few moments more, and Madame Firmiani entered the room.

"Ah!" she exclaimed, with a gesture of annoyance at seeing Monsieur de Bourbonne. "But our
uncle is not in the way," she added quickly, smiling; "I came to humbly entreat my husband
to accept my fortune. The Austrian Embassy has just sent me a document which proves the death
of Monsieur Firmiani, also the will, which his valet was keeping safely to put into my own
hands. And do not give me the objection that my Greek is to be a heretic or schismatic.
Fixed-that is very good Catholic. If it were, there would be such a good friend of Father Gonzalez,
who I introduced him in the sacristy, for over a week.

"My dear niece," said the old man, "in my day we made love; in yours, you love. You women are
all that is best in humanity; you are not even guilty of your faults, for they come through us."

