Within a few hundred yards of the hotel there is another fort, and at this point the path taken
by Lady Ongar led into the private grounds of the inn at which she was staying. Here the count
left her, raising his hat as he did so, and saying that he hoped to see her again before she
left the island.

"If you do so," said she, "it shall be in presence of those who can protect me." And so they
parted.

Chapter XXXII

What Cecilia Burton Did For Her Sister-In-Law

As soon as Harry Clavering had made his promise to Mr. Burton, and had declared that he would
be in Onslow Crescent that same evening, he went away from the offices at the Adelphi, feeling
it to be quite impossible that he should recommence his work there at that moment, even should
it ever be within his power to do so. Nor did Burton expect that he should stay. He understood,
from what had passed, much of Harry's trouble, if not the whole of it; and though he did not
despair on behalf of his sister, he was aware that her lover had fallen into a difficulty,
from which he could not extricate himself without great suffering and much struggling. But
Burton was a man who, in spite of something cynical on the surface of his character, believed
well of mankind generally, and well also of men as individuals. Even though Harry had done
amiss, he might be saved. And though Harry's conduct to Florence might have been bad, nay,
might have been false, still, as Burton believed, he was too good to be cast aside, or spurned
out of the way, without some further attempt to save him.

When Clavering had left him Burton went back to his work, and after a while succeeded in riveting
his mind on the papers before him. It was a hard struggle with him, but he did it, and did
not leave his business till his usual hour. It was past five when he took down his hat and
his umbrella, and, as I fear, dusted his boots before he passed out of the office on to the
passage. As he went he gave sundry directions to porters and clerks, as was his wont, and then
walked off intent upon his usual exercise before he should reach his home.

But he had to determine on much with reference to Florence and Harry before he saw his wife.
How was the meeting of the evening to take place, and in what way should it be commenced? If
there were indispensable cause for his anger, in what way should he show it, and if necessity
for vengeance, how should his sister be avenged? There is nothing more difficult for a man
than the redressing of injuries done to a woman who is very near to him and very dear to him.
The whole theory of Christian meekness and forgiveness becomes broken to pieces and falls to
the ground, almost as an absurd theory, even at the idea of such wrong. What man ever forgave
an insult to his wife or an injury to his sister, because he had taught himself that to forgive
trespasses is a religious duty? Without an argument, without a moment's thought, the man declares
to himself that such trespasses as those are not included in the general order. But what is
he to do? Thirty years since his course was easy, and unless the sinner were a clergyman, he
could in some sort satisfy his craving for revenge by taking a pistol in his hand, and having
a shot at the offender. That method was doubtless barbarous and unreasonable, but it was satisfactory
and sufficed. But what can he do now? A thoughtful, prudent, painstaking man, such as was Theodore
Burton, feels that it is not given to him to attack another with his fists, to fly at his enemy's
throat, and carry out his purpose after the manner of dogs. Such a one has probably something
round his heart which tells him that if so attacked he could defend himself; but he knows that
he has no aptitude for making such onslaught, and is conscious that such deeds of arms would
be unbecoming to him. In many, perhaps in most of such cases, he may, if he please, have recourse
to the laws. But any aid that the law can give him is altogether distasteful to him. The name
of her that is so dear to him should be kept quiet as the grave under such misfortune, not
blazoned through ten thousand columns for the amusement of all the crowd. There is nothing
left for him but to spurn the man--not with his foot but with his thoughts; and the bitter
consciousness that to such spurning the sinner will be indifferent. The old way was barbarous
certainly, and unreasonable--but there was a satisfaction in it that has been often wanting
since the use of pistols went out of fashion among us.

All this passed through Burton's mind as he walked home. One would not have supposed him to
be a man eager for bloodshed--he with a wife whom he deemed to be perfect, with children who
in his eyes were gracious as young gods, with all his daily work which he loved as good workers
always do; but yet, as he thought of Florence, as he thought of the possibility of treachery
on Harry's part, he regarded almost with dismay the conclusion to which he was forced to come--that
there could be no punishment. He might proclaim the offender to the world as false, and the
world would laugh at the proclaimer, and shake hands with the offender. To sit together with
such a man on a barrel of powder, or fight him over a handkerchief seemed to him to be reasonable,
nay salutary, under such a grievance. There are sins, he felt, which the gods should punish
with instant thunderbolts, and such sins as this were of such a nature. His Florence--pure,
good, loving, true, herself totally void of all suspicion, faultless in heart as well as mind,
the flower of that Burton flock which had prospered so well--that she should be sacrificed
through the treachery of a man who, at his best, had scarcely been worthy of her! The thought
of this was almost too much for him, and he gnashed his teeth as he went on his way.

But yet he had not given up the man. Though he could not restrain himself from foreshadowing
the misery that would result from such baseness, yet he told himself that he would not condemn
before condemnation was necessary. Harry Clavering might not be good enough for Florence. What
man was good enough for Florence? But still, if married, Harry, he thought, would not make
a bad husband Many a man who is prone enough to escape from the bonds which he has undertaken
to endure--to escape from them before they are riveted--is mild enough under their endurance,
when they are once fastened upon him. Harry Clavering was not of such a nature that Burton
could tell himself that it would be well that his sister should escape even though her way
of escape must lie through the fire and water of outraged love. That Harry Clavering was a
gentleman, that he was clever, that he was by nature affectionate, soft in manner, tender of
heart, anxious to please, good-tempered, and of high ambition, Burton knew well; and he partly
recognized the fact that Harry had probably fallen into his present fault more by accident
than by design. Clavering was not a skilled and practiced deceiver. At last, as he drew near
to his own door, he resolved on the line of conduct he would pursue. He would tell his wife
everything, and she should receive Harry alone.

He was weary when he reached home, and was a little cross with his fatigue. Good man as he
was, he was apt to be fretful on the first moment of his return to his own house, hot with
walking, tired with his day's labor, and in want of his dinner. His wife understood this well,
and always bore with him at such moments, coming down to him in the dressing-room behind the
back parlor, and ministering to his wants. I fear he took some advantage of her goodness, knowing
that at such moments he could grumble and scold without danger of contradiction. But the institution
was established, and Cecilia never rebelled against its traditional laws. On the present day
he had much to say to her, but even that he could not say without some few symptoms of petulant
weariness.

"I'm afraid you've had a terrible long day," she said.

"I don't know what you call terribly long. I find the days terribly short. I have had Harry
with me, as I told you I should."

"Well, well. Say in one word, dear, that it is all right--if it is so."

"But it is not all right. I wonder what on earth the men do to the boots, that I can never
get a pair that do not hurt me in walking." At this moment she was standing over him with his
slippers.

"Will you have a glass of sherry before dinner, dear; you are so tired?"

"Sherry--no!"

"And what about Harry? You don't mean to say--"

"If you'll listen, I'll tell you what I do mean to say." Then he described to her as well as
he could, what had really taken place between him and Harry Clavering at the office.

"He cannot mean to be false, if he is coming here," said the wife.

"He does not mean to be false; but he is one of those men who can be false without meaning
it, who allow themselves to drift away from their anchors, and to be carried out into seas
of misery and trouble, because they are not careful in looking to their tackle. I think that
he may still be held to a right course, and therefore I have begged him to come here."

"I am sure that you are right, Theodore. He is so good and so affectionate, and he made himself
so much one of us!"

"Yes; too easily by half. That is just the danger. But look here, Cissy. I'll tell you what
I mean to do. I will not see him myself; at any rate, not at first. Probably I had better not
see him at all. You shall talk to him."

"By myself?"

"Why not? You and he have always been great friends, and he is a man who can speak more openly
to a woman than to another man."

"And what shall I say as to your absence?"

"Just the truth. Tell him that I am remaining in the dining-room because I think his task will
be easier with you in my absence. He has got himself into some mess with that woman."

"With Lady Ongar?"

"Yes; not that her name was mentioned between us, but I suppose it is so."

"Horrible woman; wicked, wretched creature!"

"I know nothing about that, nor, as I suppose, do you."

"My dear, you must have heard."

"But if I had--and I don't know that I have--I need not have believed. I am told that she married
an old man who is now dead, and I suppose she wants a young husband."

"My dear!"

"If I were you, Cissy, I would say as little as might be about her. She was an old friend of
Harry's--"

"She jilted him when he was quite a boy; I know that--long before he had seen our Florence."

"And she is connected with him through his cousin. Let her be ever so bad, I should drop that."

"You can't suppose, Theodore, that I want even to mention her name. I'm told that nobody ever
visits her."

"She needn't be a bit the worse on that account. Whenever I hear that there is a woman whom
nobody visits, I always feel inclined to go and pay my respects to her."

"Theodore, how can you say so?"

"And that, I suppose, is just what Harry has done. If the world and his wife had visited Lady
Ongar, there would not have been all this trouble now."

