Mr. Adams' firmness in discharge of duty--His exertions in behalf of the Amistad Slaves--His
connection with the Smithsonian Bequest--Tour through Canada and New York--His reception at
Buffalo--Visits Niagara Falls--Attends worship with the Tuscarora Indians--His reception at
Rochester--at Auburn--at Albany--at Pittsfield--Visits Cincinnati-- Assists in laying the Corner
Stone of an Observatory.

CHAPTER XV.

Mr. Adams' Last Appearance in Public at Boston--His Health--Lectures on his Journey to Washington--Remote
Cause of his Decease--Struck with Paralysis--Leaves Quincy for Washington for the last time--His
final Sickness in the House of Representatives--His Death--The Funeral at Washington--Removal
of the Body to Quincy--Its Interment.

EULOGY

THE LIFE OF JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

CHAPTER I.

THE ANCESTRY, BIRTH, AND CHILDHOOD, OF JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

The Puritan Pilgrims of the May-Flower landed on Plymouth Rock, and founded the Colony of Massachusetts,
on the 21st day of December, 1620.

HENRY ADAMS, the founder of the Adams family in America, fled from ecclesiastical oppression
in England, and joined the Colony at a very early period, but at what precise time is not recorded.
He erected his humble dwelling at a place within the present town of QUINCY, then known as
MOUNT WOLLASTON, and is believed to have been an inhabitant when the first Christian Church
was gathered there in 1630. On the organization of the town of Braintree, which comprised the
place of his residence, he was elected Clerk of the Town. He died on the eighth day of October,
1646. His memory is preserved by a plain granite monument, erected in the burial-ground at
Quincy, by JOHN ADAMS, President of the United States, and bearing this inscription:--

                  In Memory
                     of
                 HENRY ADAMS,
Who took his flight from the Dragon Persecution in Devonshire, in
  England, and alighted with eight sons, near Mount Wollaston.
   One of the sons returned to England, and after taking time
     to explore the country, four removed to Medfield and
       the neighboring towns; two to Chelmsford. One
       only, Joseph, who lies here at his left hand,
        remained here, who was an original pro-
         prietor in the Township of Braintree,
           incorporated in the year 1639.

This stone, and several others, have been placed in this yard, by a great-great-grandson, from
a veneration of the piety, humility, simplicity, prudence, patience, temperance; frugality,
industry, and perseverance of his ancestors, in hopes of recommending an imitation of their
virtues to their posterity.

Joseph Adams, the son of Henry Adams mentioned in the above inscription, died on the sixth
of December, 1694, aged sixty-eight years. Joseph, the next in succession, died February 12th,
1736, at the age of eighty-four years. His son John Adams, was a Deacon of the Church at Quincy,
and died May 25th, 1761, aged seventy years. This John Adams was the father of him who was
destined to give not only undying fame to his ancient family, but a new and powerful impulse
to the cause of Human Freedom throughout the world.

JOHN ADAMS, son of John Adams and Susannah Boylston Adams, was born at Quincy on the nineteenth
day of October (old style), 1735. He received the honors of Harvard University in 1755, and
then, in pursuance of a good old New England custom, which made those who had enjoyed the benefits
of a public education, in turn impart those benefits to the public, he was occupied for a time
in teaching.

It ought to encourage all young men in straitened circumstances, desirous of obtaining a profession
and of rising to eminence, to know that John Adams, who became so illustrious by talents and
achievement as to lend renown to the office of President of the United States, pursued the
study of the law under the inconveniences resulting from his occupation as an instructor in
a Grammar School.

John Adams was an eminent and successful lawyer, but it was not the design of his existence
that his talents should be wasted in the contentions of the courts.

The British Parliament, as soon as the Colonies had attracted their notice, commenced a system
of legislation known as the Colonial System, the object of which was to secure to the mother
country a monopoly of their trade, and to prevent their rising to a condition of strength and
independence. The effect of this system was to prevent all manufactures in the Colonies, and
all trade with foreign countries, and even with the adjacent plantations.

The Colonies remonstrated in vain against this policy, but owing to popular dissatisfaction,
the regulations were not rigidly enforced. At length an Order in Council was passed, which
directed the officers of the customs in Massachusetts Bay, to execute the acts of trade. A
question arose in the Supreme Court of that province in 1761, upon the constitutional right
of the British Parliament to bind the Colonies. The trial produced great excitement. The cause
was argued for the Crown by the King's Attorney-General, and against the laws by James Otis.

It will be seen that the question thus involved was the very one that was finally submitted
to the arbitrament of arms in the American Revolution. The speech of Otis on the occasion,
was an effort of surpassing ability. John Adams was a witness, and he recorded his opinion
of it, and his opinion of the magnitude of the question, thus:

"Otis was a flame of fire! With a promptitude of classical allusion, a depth of research, a
rapid summary of historical events and dates, a profusion of legal authorities, a prophetic
glance of his eyes into futurity, a rapid torrent of impetuous eloquence, he hurried away all
before him. AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE was then and there born. Every man of an unusually crowded
audience, appeared to me to go away ready to take up arms against Writs of Assistance."

Speaking on the same subject, on another occasion, John Adams said that "James Otis there and
there breathed into this nation the breath of life."

From that day John Adams was an enthusiast for the independence of his country.

In 1764 he married Abigail, daughter of the Reverend William Smith, of Weymouth. The mother
of John Quincy Adams was a woman of great beauty and high intellectual endowments, and she
combined, with the proper accomplishments of her sex, a sweetness of disposition, and a generous
sympathy with the patriotic devotion of her illustrious husband.

In 1765, the British Parliament, in contempt of the discontent of the Colonies, presumptuously
passed the Stamp Act; a law which directed taxed stamped paper to be used in all legal instruments
in the Colonies. The validity of the law was denied; and while Patrick Henry was denouncing
it in Virginia, James Otis and John Adams argued against it before the Governor and Council
of Massachusetts.

The occasion called forth from John Adams a "Dissertation on the Canon and Feudal Laws,"--a
work, which although it was of a general character in regard to government, yet manifested
democratic sentiments unusual in those times, and indicated that republican institutions were
the proper institutions for the American People.

The resistance to the stamp act throughout the Colonies procured its repeal in 1766. But the
British Government accompanied the repeal with an ungracious declaratory act, by which they
asserted "that the Parliament had, and of right ought to have, power to bind the Colonies,
in all cases whatsoever." In the next year a law was passed, which imposed duties in the Colonies,
on glass, paper, paints, and tea. The spirit of insubordination manifested itself throughout
the Colonies, and, inasmuch as it radiated from Boston, British ships of war were stationed
in its harbor, and two regiments of British troops were thrown in the town, to compel obedience.
John Adams had now become known as the most intrepid, zealous, and indefatigable opposer of
British usurpation. The Crown tried upon him in vain the royal arts so successful on the other
side of the Atlantic. The Governor and Council offered him the place of Advocate General in
the Court of Admiralty, an office of great value; he declined it, "decidedly, peremptorily,
but respectfully."

At this interesting crisis, JOHN QUINCY ADAMS was born, at Quincy, on the 11th of July, 1767.
A lesson, full of instruction concerning the mingled influences of piety and patriotism in
New England, at that time, is furnished to us by the education of the younger Adams. (no child.)
however when these lyric that the beginning, to exist her was in
enlarged upon measure.

Echo has possibly, even, more years, the affray of sentences had heard being
repeated subject. If i say, "Leg hin" (put of pen down)! there audio
in response has a feder by he admitted.

All sorts of note and sound who are imitated in success; never of
independent, audience is displayed; a sound of animals; regularly
german years, main, varying, and english affray.

"n" (in bon, orange), nevertheless-- yet in months as english "thursday," in thither (in States who
know i was of month), me is not achieve. The bairn who had still laughs well when others, dialogue
that he does not realize, and that does not mention when him; e. minister. i thus, da has appointed
in hastn (da hast du ihn) (there you have him), or aha sist [) antioxidant] (siehst du) (do you see)?
and um Gottes know he was of willen (for sake), emphasis had appointed to States in cases being
also her copy he with clearcutness. But accentuation who change in manner. Vicissitude is bitté bi-t
[) e]. The longer appears. As a period to be advert of memory for often-order before inquiry.
 Exemplary in private life, and earnest in piety, he enjoyed the public confidence,
through a civil career of forty years' duration.

The American Revolution was rapidly hurrying on during the infancy of John Quincy Adams. In
1769, the citizens of Boston held a meeting in which they instructed their representatives
in the Provincial Legislature to resist the usurpations of the British Government. John Adams
was chairman of the committee that prepared these instructions, and his associates were Richard
Dana and Joseph Warren, the same distinguished patriot who gave up his life as one of the earliest
sacrifices to freedom, in the battle of Bunker Hill.

Those instructions were expressed in the bold and decided tone of John Adams, and they increased
the public excitement in the province, by the earnestness with which they insisted on the removal
of the British troops from Boston.

The popular irritation increased, until on the 5th of March, 1770, a collision occurred between
the troops and some of the inhabitants of Boston, in which five citizens were killed, and many
wounded. This was called the Bloody Massacre. The exasperated inhabitants were with difficulty
restrained from retaliating this severity by an extermination of all the British troops. A
public meeting was held, and a committee, of which SAMUEL ADAMS was chairman, was appointed
to address the Governor (Gage), and demand that the troops should be withdrawn. John Adams
described the excitement, on a later occasion, in these words:

"Not only the immense assemblies of the people from day to day, but military arrangements from
night to night, were necessary to keep the people and the soldiers from getting together by
the ears. The life of a red-coat would not have been safe in any street or corner of the town.
Nor would the lives of the inhabitants have been much more secure. The whole militia of the
city was in requisition, and military watches and guards were everywhere placed. We were all
upon a level. No man was exempted: our military officers were our only superiors. I had the
honor to be summoned in my turn, and attended at the State House with my musket and bayonet,
my broadsword and cartridge-box, under the command of the famous Paddock."

The Governor withdrew the troops and sent them to the castle: the commanding officer and some
of the soldiers were arrested, and brought to trial for murder.

John Adams, the advocate and leader of the exasperated people, was solicited by the Government
to act as counsel for the accused. The people, in the heat of passion, would naturally identify
the lawyer with his clients, and both with the odious cause in which they served. John Adams
did not hesitate. His principle was fidelity to duty in all the relations of life. Adams, together
with Josiah Quincy, defended the accused with ability and firmness, and the result crowned
not only the advocates, but the jury and the people of Boston with honor. Distinguishing between
the Government, upon whom the responsibility rested, and the troops who were its agents, the
jury acquitted the accused. The people sustained the verdict; affording to Great Britain and
to the world a noble proof, that they had been well prepared by education for the trust of
self-government.

The controversy between the Province of Massachusetts and the British Government continued,
and the exasperation of the Colonies became more intense, until the destruction of the imported
tea in the harbor, in December, 1773, incensed the Ministry so highly, that they procured an
act closing the port of Boston. This act was followed by the convention of the first American
Congress at Philadelphia, on the 5th of September, 1774. As John Adams had been the master
spirit in the agitation in Massachusetts, he was appointed one of the Delegates to the General
Congress. After his election, his friend Sewall, the King's Attorney General, labored earnestly
to dissuade him from accepting the appointment.

The Attorney General told the delegate that Great Britain was determined on her system, that
her power was irresistible, and that he, and those with him who should persist in their designs
of resistance, would be involved in ruin.

It was these energetic and resolute expressions which Daniel Webster wrought into so magnificent
an imaginary speech, in his glowing Eulogy on John Adams and Thomas Jefferson.

John Adams continued in Congress throughout the sessions of 1775 and 1776, and on all occasions
was an intrepid and earnest advocate for Independence. On his motion, George Washington was
appointed Commander in Chief of the Army.

John Adams was the mover of Independence in the Congress.

This resolution was adopted, and was followed by the appointment of a committee, on the motion
of Richard Henry Lee, seconded by John Adams, to prepare a Declaration. Jefferson and Adams
were a sub-committee, and the former prepared the Declaration, at the urgent request of the latter.

Jefferson bore this testimony to the ability and power of John Adams.--"The great pillar of
support to the Declaration of Independence, and its ablest advocate and champion on the floor
of the House, was John Adams."

On the day after the Declaration of Independence was adopted, he wrote the memorable letter
in which he said with prophetic unction,--"Yesterday the greatest question was decided that
ever was debated in America; and greater, perhaps, never was or will be decided among men.
A resolution was passed without one dissenting Colony, 'That the United States are, and of
right ought to be, free and independent States.' The day is passed. You may think me transported
with enthusiasm, but I am not. I am well aware of the toil, and blood, and treasure, that it
will cost to maintain this Declaration, and support and defend these States: yet through all
the gloom, I can see that the end is worth all the means; and that posterity will triumph,
although you and I may rue, which I hope we shall not."

From this time, until November 1777, John Adams was incessantly employed in public duties in
Congress, during the session of that body; and during its recess, as a member of the State
Council in Massachusetts. During this period, John Quincy was instructed at home, by her who,
in long after years, he was accustomed to call his almost adored mother, who was aided by a
law-student in the office of his father. EDWARD EVERETT, in his Eulogy upon John Quincy Adams,
made the very striking and just remark, that there seemed to be in his life no such stage as
that of boyhood. While yet but nine years old, he wrote to his father the following letter:

                                                Braintree, June 2nd, 1777.
DEAR SIR,
I love to receive letters very well; much better than I love to write
them. I make but a poor figure at composition. My head is much too fickle.
My thoughts are running after bird's eggs, play and trifles, till I get
vexed with myself. Mamma has a troublesome task to keep me a studying. I
own I am ashamed of myself. I have but just entered the third volume of
Rollin's History, but designed to have got half through it by this time.
I am determined this week to be more diligent. Mr. Thaxter is absent at
Court. I have set myself a stint this week, to read the third volume half
out. If I can but keep my resolution, I may again at the end of the week
give a better account of myself. I wish, sir, you would give me in
writing, some instructions with regard to the use of my time, and advise
me how to proportion my studies and play, and I will keep them by me, and
endeavor to follow them.

With the present determination of growing better, I am, dear sir, your son,
                                                       JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

P. S. Sir--If you will be so good as to favor me with a blank book, I will transcribe the most
remarkable passages I meet with in my reading, which will serve to fix them upon my mind.

After making all just allowance for precocity of genius, we cannot but see that the early maturity
of the younger Adams proves the great advantage of pure and intellectual associations in childhood.

The time soon arrived when John Quincy Adams was to enjoy advantages of education such as were
never afforded to any other American youth. Among the earliest acts of the American Congress,
was the appointment of Benjamin Franklin, Silas Dean, and Arthur Lee, as Commissioners to France;
they were charged to solicit aid from France, and to negotiate a treaty, by which the Independence
of the United States should be acknowledged by Louis Sixteenth, then at the height of his popularity.
Silas Dean was recalled in 1776, and John Adams was appointed to fill his place. He embarked
on this mission the 13th of February, 1778, in the frigate Boston, commanded by Captain Tucker.
John Adams had gone down to Quincy, and the frigate called there to receive him on board. On
the eve of embarkation he wrote the following simple and touching letter to Mrs. Adams:

            "Uncle Quincy's,--half after 11 o'clock, 13 February, 1778.
"DEAREST OF FRIENDS,
"I had not been twenty minutes in this house, before I had the happiness
to see Captain Tucker and a midshipman coming for me. We will be soon on
board, and may God prosper our voyage in every stage of it as much as at
the beginning, and send to you, my dear children, and all my friends, the
choicest blessings!

"So wishes and prays yours, with an ardor that neither absence, nor any
other event can abate,
                                                          "JOHN ADAMS.
"P. S. Johnny sends his duty to his mamma, and his love to his sisters and
brothers. He behaves like a man."

"He behaves like a man!"--Words which gave presage of the future character of John Quincy Adams.
His education had now commenced: an education in the principles of heroic action, by John Adams,
the colossus of the American Revolution. How devoted he was to this important charge, and with
what true philosophy he conducted it, may be seen by the following letter written about that
time by him, to Mrs. Adams:

"Human nature, with all its infirmities and depravation, is still capable of great things.
It is capable of attaining to degrees of wisdom and of goodness which we have reason to believe
appear respectable in the estimation of superior intelligences. Education makes a greater difference
between man and man, than nature has made between man and brute. The virtues and powers to
which men may be trained, by early education and constant discipline, are truly sublime and
astonishing.

"Newton and Locke are examples of the deep sagacity which may be acquired by long habits of
thinking and study. Nay, your common mechanics and artisans are proofs of the wonderful dexterity
acquired by use; a watchmaker, finishing his wheels and springs, a pin or needle-maker, &c.
I think there is a particular occupation in Europe, which is called paper staining, or linen
staining, A man who has long been habituated to it, shall sit for a whole day, and draw upon
paper various figures, to be imprinted upon the paper for rooms, as fast as his eye can roll
and his fingers move, and no two of his draughts shall be alike. The Saracens, the Knights
of Malta, the army and navy in the service of the English Republic, among many others, are
instances to show to what an exalted height, valor or bravery or courage may be raised, by
artificial means.

"It should be your care therefore, and mine, to elevate the minds of our children, and exalt
their courage, to accelerate and animate their industry and activity, to excite in them an
habitual contempt of meanness, abhorrence of injustice and inhumanity, and an ambition to excel
in every capacity, faculty, and virtue. If we suffer their minds to grovel and creep in infancy,
they will grovel and creep all their lives.

"But their bodies must be hardened, as well as their souls exalted.
Without strength, and activity and vigor of body, the brightest mental
excellencies will be eclipsed and obscured.
                                                        "JOHN ADAMS."

No one can read this extraordinary letter, and compare it with the actual character of John
Quincy Adams as ultimately developed, without regarding that character as a fulfilment, in
all respects, of the prayers and purposes of his illustrious parent.

The voyage of the American Minister was made in a time of great peril. The naval supremacy
of Great Britain was already established. Her armed ships traversed the ocean in all directions.
Captain Tucker saw a large English ship showing a row of guns, and with the consent of the
Minister, engaged her. When hailed, she answered with a broadside. John Adams had been requested
to retire to the cockpit, but when the engagement had begun, he was found among the marines,
with a musket in his hands.

The desired treaty with France had been consummated by Dr. Franklin, before the arrival of
John Adams. After that event, Congress decided to have but one minister in that country, and
Dr. Franklin having deservedly received the appointment, John Adams asked and obtained leave
to return home, after an absence of a year and a half. During that period the younger Adams
attended a public school in Paris, while his leisure hours were filled with the instructions
casually derived from the conversation of John Adams, and Dr. Franklin, and other eminent intellectual
persons, by whom his father was surrounded. The improvement of the son during his sojourn abroad
is thus mentioned by John Adams, just before his embarkation on his return to America.

"My son has had a great opportunity to see this country, but this has unavoidably retarded
his education in some other things. He has enjoyed perfect health from first to last, and is
respected wherever he goes, for his vigor and vivacity both of mind and body; for his constant
good humor, and for his rapid progress in French, as well as in general knowledge, which, for
his age, is uncommon."

John Adams now regarded his public life as closed. He wrote to Mrs. Adams:

"The Congress, I presume, expect that I should come home, and I shall come accordingly. As
they have no business for me in Europe, I must contrive to get some for myself at home. Prepare
yourself for removing to Boston, into the old house, for there you shall go, and I will draw
writs and deeds, and harangue juries, and be happy."

This calculation was signally erroneous, as all calculations upon personal ease and peace by
great and good men always are. He remained at home only three months, and during that time
he had other and higher occupations than drawing writs and deeds. He was elected Delegate to
the Convention charged with the responsible and novel duty of forming a written constitution
for Massachusetts. In that body he labored with untiring assiduity, as in Congress; the constitution
thus produced was in a great measure prepared by himself, and it is due to his memory to record
the fact, that it was among the most democratic of all the constitutions which were adopted
by the new States. The younger Adams having returned to America with his father, had thus the
advantage of seeing republican theories brought into successful, practical application.

About this time Congress resolved on sending a Minister Plenipotentiary to Great Britain, to
negotiate, if possible, a treaty of peace. John Adams and John Jay received each an equal number
of votes. The result was the appointment of M. Jay as Minster to Spain, and of John Adams as
Minister to the Court of St. James. He was instructed to insist on the independence of the
United States.

The younger Adams again attended the Diplomatist. They embarked in the French frigate La Sensible,
on the 17th of November, 1779.

The frigate sprang a leak, and was obliged to put into the port nearest at hand, which proved
to be Ferrol in Spain. They disembarked on the 11th of December, and traversed the intervening
distance to Paris over land, a journey of a thousand miles. This journey was performed through
the mountains on mules. Spain, as well as France, was then in alliance with America, and the
minister was everywhere received with respect and kindness. The French officers at Ferrol wore
cockades in honor of the Triple Alliance, combining a white ribbon for the French, a red one
for the Spanish, and a black one for the Americans.

The United Powers proposed demands which were ominous of disappointment to the Minister.--On
the 12th of December he wrote:--"It is said that England is as reluctant to acknowledge the
independence of America, as to cede Gibraltar, the last of which is insisted upon, as well
as the first."

The travellers reached Paris about the middle of February, 1780. John Adams mentioned a singular
coincidence in his letter announcing their arrival. "I have the honor to be lodged here with
no less a personage than the Prince of Hesse-Cassel, who is here upon a visit. We occupy different
apartments in the same house, and have no intercourse with each other, to be sure; but some
wags are of opinion, that if I were authorised to open a negotiation with him, I might obtain
from him as many troops to fight on our side of the question, as he has already hired to the
English against us!"

The American Revolution has wrought wonderful changes since that day. No German Prince could
now send a man, or a musket, to war against its principles.

John Adams soon discovered that there was no prospect of success for his mission to England.
He remained at Paris until August, 1780, and during the interval his son was kept at an academy
in that city.

At the expiration of that period the Minister repaired to Holland, and there received instructions
to negotiate a loan, and then a treaty of amity and commerce with the states of that country.
The younger Adams while in Holland was placed at school, first at Amsterdam, and afterwards
in the University of Leyden.

A letter of the father, dated at Amsterdam, 18th December, 1780, gives us a glimpse of the
system of instruction approved by him, and a pleasant view of the principles which he deemed
it important to be inculcated.

"I have this morning sent Mr. Thaxter with my two sons to Leyden, there to take up their residence
for some time, and there to pursue their studies of Latin and Greek under the excellent masters,
and there to attend lectures of the celebrated professors in that University. It is much cheaper
there than here. The air is infinitely purer, and the company and conversation are better.
It is perhaps as learned a University as any in Europe.

"I should not wish to have children educated in the common schools of this country, where a
littleness of soul is notorious. The masters are mean spirited wretches, pinching, kicking,
and boxing the children upon every turn. There is, besides, a general littleness, arising from
the incessant contemplation of stivers and doits, which pervades the whole people.

"Frugality and industry are virtues everywhere, but avarice and stinginess are not frugality.
The Dutch say, that without a habit of thinking of every doit before you spend it, no man can
be a good merchant, or conduct trade with success.

"This, I believe, is a just maxim in general; but I would never wish to see a son of mine govern
himself by it. It is the sure and certain way for an industrious man to be rich. It is the
only possible way for a merchant to become the first merchant, or the richest man in the place.
But this is an object that I hope none of my children will ever aim at. It is indeed true everywhere,
that those who attend to small expenses are always rich.

"I would have my children attend to doits and farthings as devoutly as the merest Dutchman
upon earth, if such attention was necessary to support their independence. A man who discovers
a disposition and a design to be independent, seldom succeeds. A jealousy arises against him.
The tyrants are alarmed on the one side, lest he should oppose them: the slaves are alarmed
on the other, lest he should expose their servility. The cry from all quarters is, 'He is the
proudest man in the world: He cannot bear to be under obligation.'

"I never in my life observed anyone endeavoring to lay me under particular obligation to him,
but I suspected he had a design to make me his dependent, and to have claims upon my gratitude.
This I should have no objection to, because gratitude is always in one's power. But the danger
is, that men will expect and require more of us than honor, and innocence, and rectitude will
permit us to perform.

"In our country, however, any man, with common industry and prudence, may be independent."

One cannot turn over a page of the domestic history of John Adams, without finding a precept
or example, the influence of which is manifested in the character of his illustrious son. Thus
he writes to Mrs. Adams, touching certain calumnies which had been propagated against him:--

  LIFE OF JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.   39

"Do n't distress yourself about any malicious attempts to injure me in the estimation of my
countrymen. Let them take their course, and go the length of their tether. They will never
hurt your husband, whose character is fortified with a shield of innocence and honor, ten thousand-fold
stronger than brass or iron. The contemptible essays, made by you know whom, will only tend
to their own confusion. My letters have shown them their own ignorance, a sight they could
not bear. Say as little about it as I do. I laugh, and will laugh before all posterity, at
their impotent rage and envy."

In July, 1781, Francis Dana, who had attended John Adams as Secretary of Legation, was appointed
Minister to Russia. John Quincy Adams, then fourteen years old, was appointed Private Secretary
of this mission. He remained at that post fourteen months, performing its duties with entire
satisfaction to the minister. The singular ripeness of the youthful secretary was shown in
his travelling alone, on his return from St. Petersburgh, by a journey leisurely made, and
filled with observations of Sweden, Denmark, Hamburgh, and Bremen. On arriving in Holland,
he resumed his studies at the Hague.

John Adams, having completed his mission in Holland, was soon charged, together with Dr. Franklin
and Thomas Jefferson, with the duty of negotiating a definitive treaty of peace with Great
Britain. The treaty was executed at Paris on the 30th of November, 1783, and was ratified January
14th, 1784. The younger Adams enjoyed the satisfaction of being present at the conclusion of
the treaty; and while it was under process of negotiation, he was constantly favored with opportunities
of listening to the instructive conversation of Franklin and Jefferson.

The negotiation of the treaty was dilatory in the extreme. It was embarrassed with French intrigues,
great carelessness at home, and greater reluctance on the part of England. The wearied Minister
wrote to Mrs. Adams on the 30th of May, 1783: "Our son is at the Hague, pursuing his studies
with great ardor. They give him a good character wherever he has been, and I hope he will make
a good man." On the 9th of June he wrote in these homely, but manly words:  "I am weary, worn,
and disgusted to death. I had rather chop wood, dig ditches, and make fence upon my poor little
farm. Alas, poor farm! and poorer family! what have you lost that your country might be free!
and that others might catch fish and hunt deer and bears at their ease!

"There will be as few of the tears of gratitude, or the smiles of admiration, or the sighs
of pity for us, as for the army. But all this should not hinder me from going over the same
scenes again, upon the same occasions--scenes which I would not encounter for all the wealth,
pomp, and power of the world. Boys! if you ever say one word, or utter one complaint, I will
disinherit you. Work! you rogues, and be free.  You will never have so hard work to do as papa
has had. Daughter! get you an honest man for a husband, and keep him honest. No matter whether
he is rich, provided he be independent. Regard the honor and the moral character of the man,
more than all circumstances. Think of no other greatness but that of the soul, no other riches
but those of the heart."

After concluding the treaty of peace, John Adams, together with Franklin and Jay, was charged
with the duty of negotiating a treaty of commerce with Great Britain, and John Adams, taking
his son John Quincy with him, proceeded to London, and took up his residence at the British
Court. Mrs. Adams embarked in June, 1781, to join her husband.

John Adams was appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to the same Court in 1785, and thus he, who
ten years before, when a subject, in the province of Massachusetts, had said, "I know that
Great Britain has determined upon her system, and that very determination determines me on
mine,"--was the first Representative of his independent country admitted to an audience by
the discomfited majesty of the Imperial States. Memory; a combination was of the earliest recollections,
or memory-images; deliberate, not purposive movements for the lessening
of a strain-- all these to come to the child from greater and more
measure in dying language.  It is in obedience to their express commands, that I have the honor to assure your Majesty
of their unanimous disposition and desire to cultivate the most liberal and friendly intercourse
between your Majesty's subjects and their citizens; and of their best wishes for your Majesty's
health and happiness, and for that of your royal family.

"The appointment of a Minister from the United States to your Majesty's Court, will form an
epoch in the history of England and of America. I think myself more fortunate than all my fellow
citizens, in having the distinguished honor to be the first to stand in your Majesty's royal
presence, in a diplomatic character; and I shall esteem myself the happiest of men, if  I can
be instrumental in recommending my Country more and more, to your Majesty's royal benevolence,
and of restoring an entire esteem, confidence and affection, or in better words, 'the old good
nature, and the old good harmony,' between people, who, though separated by an ocean, and under
different governments, have the same language, a similar religion, and kindred blood. I beg
your Majesty's permission to add, that although I have sometimes before been intrusted by my
country, it was never, in my whole life, in a manner so agreeable to myself."

George III. replied with dignity, but not without some manifestations of excitement:--

"The circumstances of this audience are so extraordinary, the language you have now held is
so extremely proper, and the feelings you have discovered so justly adapted to the occasion,
that I must say that I not only receive with pleasure the assurances of the friendly disposition
of the People of the United States, but I am very glad the choice has fallen upon you to be
their Minister. I wish you, sir, to believe, and that it may be understood in America, that
I have done nothing in the late contest, but what I thought myself indispensably bound to do,
by the duty which I owed my people. I will be frank with you--I was the last to conform to
the separation, but the separation having been made, and having become inevitable, I have always
said, as I say now, that I would be the first to meet the friendship of the United States,
as an independent power.

"The moment I see such sentiments and language as yours prevail, and a disposition to give
this country the preference, that moment I shall say, let the circumstances of language, religion
and blood have their natural and full effect."

The kindly feelings expressed by the King, were, however, comparatively, only the language
of ceremony, for the British Ministry, and the British people, did not regard the new republic
with favor. But they could not withhold the exhibition of reluctant respect.

