When the Sleepers Woke

                         By Arthur Leo Zagat

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Only two small groups of people--enemies--survive the vast desolation of the Final War.]

"Prepare for battle!" The command crackled in Allan Dane's helmet. "Enemy approaching from
southeast! Squadron commanders execute plan two!" Allan settled back in the seat of his one-man
helicopter, his broad frame rendered even bulkier by the leather suit that incased it. He was
tensed, but quiescent. Action would be first joined sixty miles away, and his own squadron
was in reserve.

Over New York and its bay the American air fleet was in motion. Suddenly movement ceased, and
the formation froze. Ten flying forts were each the apex of a far-spread cone, axis horizontal,
whose body was the fanned back-ranging of its squadron of a thousand helicopter planes. The
cones bristled oceanward from the sea-margin of New York, their points a fifty-mile arc of
defiance, their bases tangent to one another, almost touching the ground at their lower edges,
then circling upward for ten thousand feet. From van to rear each formation was five miles
in length.

Behind and above, the main body of the fleet sloped in echeloned ranks, hiding the threatened
city with an impenetrable terraced wall of buzzing helios and massive forts. Up, back, up,
back, the serried masses reached, till the rearmost were twenty-five thousand feet aloft. And
farther behind, unmoving on their six-mile level, were the light 'copters of the reserve. Dane
gazed down that tremendous vista to the far-off front line, and swore softly. Just his luck
to be out of the scrap: the enemy would never penetrate to these northern out-skirts of New York.

"Men of the fleet!" General Huntington's voice sounded from his flagship, the Washington. Somehow
its gruffness overrode the mechanical quality of the intra-fleet radio transmission. Almost
it seemed he was there in the tiny cabin. "Reports have at this moment been received that our
attack fleets have been everywhere successful. Our rocket ships have destroyed Tokyo, Addis
Ababa, Odessa, Peiping and Cape Town, and are now ranging inland through enemy territory."

Even through the double leather of his helmet a roar came to Allan. He felt his craft vibrate
to the exultant cheers of the fleet. His own mouth was open, and his throat rasping....

"But"--the single syllable choked the surge of sound--"London, Paris, and Berlin have fallen
to the enemy." The words thudded in the pilot's ear-phones. "San Francisco is being attacked.
Communication with New Orleans has failed. The enemy are in sight of Buenos Aires--" The general
broke off, and Allan sensed dully that there was other news, news that he dared not give the fleet.

The gruff voice changed. "Men of the fleet, New York is in our charge. The enemy is upon us,
the battle is commencing. The issue is in your hands."

       *       *       *       *       *

Pat on his last word, a dark cloud spread along the south-eastern horizon. From the spear-heads
of the cone formations great green beams shot out across the sea. Orange flame flared in answer,
all along the black bank that was the enemy fleet. Where the green beams struck the orange
blinked out, and the blue of sky showed through. And the American ships were as yet untouched.
A great shout rose to Allan's lips--that they had the range on the enemy, and the attack defeated
before it was well begun.

But was it? Swift as the American rays scythed destruction along the enemy line, the gaps filled
and lethal orange leaped out again. Now the black cloud was piling up, was rising till it was
a towering curtain against the sky. On it came, like some monstrous tidal wave. Great rents
were torn through it by the stabbing beams of the flying forts, holes where ships and men had
been whiffed into dust by the hundred. But the attack came on.

Now all the great defensive cones burst into an emerald blaze as the smaller ships loosed their
bolts. And from the terraced slope of the supporting fleet a hundred steel ovoids lumbered
forward to meet the threat. All the vast space between the hosts, mountain-high from the sea's
surface, was filled with dazzling light, now green, now orange, as the conflicting beams crossed
and mingled. There were gaps in the advancing curtain that did not fill, but the defending
cones were melting away, were disappearing, were gone.

"Flight ZLX prepare for action!" Dane's eyes flicked over the gages, checking in routine precaution.
He started when he saw the V of the chronometer's hands. Only six minutes had passed since
the battle's start--it seemed hours. And already the reserve was being called on! He was suddenly
cold. Out there, over the bay, the enemy forces had ceased their advance. The American first
line cones were gone--true enough, but the support fleet was still intact. Some new element
had entered the battle, visible as yet only in the Washington's powerful television view-screens.
The flight adjutant's voice again snapped a command:

"Direction vertical. Thirty thousand feet. Full speed. Go!"

Dane jerked home his throttle. The battle shot down, and his seat thrust up against him. Something
hurtled past, blurred by the speed of its descent. The plane rocked to a sudden detonation,
and Allan fought to steady it. Then he had reached the commanded height. At sixty thousand
feet the helio vanes were useless, only the power of the auxiliary rocket-tubes maintained
his altitude.

"Formation B. Engage the enemy!" came the order.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were just ahead, a dozen giant craft, torpedo-shaped and steel-incased, the scarlet fire
of their gas blasts holding them poised steady in their fifty-mile-long line. From curious
swellings that broke the clean lines of their under-bodies black spheres were dropping in steady
streams. Allan knew then whence came the crash that had rocked his ship as she rose. These
were bombs, huge bombs, charged with heaven alone knew what Earth-shaking explosive. They were
catapulting down, an iron death hail, on the fleet and the city twelve miles below!

The enemy's strategy was clear. While his main fleet was engaging the American defense in a
frontal attack, these huge rocket-bombers had looped unseen through the stratosphere to this
point of vantage. The planes that had leaped to this new menace swept toward the bombers in
three parallel lines, above, to right and left of them. Allan's plane leaping to position at
the very end of one long line. The three leaders reached the first rocket-ship, and their green
beams shot out. In that instant the enemy craft seemed to explode in intense blue light. Then
the awful dazzle was gone. The rocket ship was there, just as before, but the American helio-planes
were gone, were wiped out as though they had never been. The next trio, and the next, rushed
up. Again and again came that flash of force, annihilating them. Superbly the tiny gnats that
were the American planes plunged headlong at the hovering Leviathan of the air and were whiffed
into nothingness. Sixty brave men were dancing motes of cosmic dust before the shocked commander
could sound the recall.

The helicopter squadron curved away, still keeping its ordered lines, but orange flame leaped
out from all twelve of the enemy vessels, orange flame that caught them, that ran along their
ranks and sent them hurtling Earthward--blackened corpses in blazing coffins. "Abandon ships!"
The adjutant's last order crisped, coldly metallic, soldierly as ever. In the next breath,
as Allan reached for the lever that would open the trapdoor beneath him, he saw the command-ship
plunge down, a flaring comet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Above Allan Dane, the twenty-foot silk of his parachute bellied out in the denser air of the
lower heights. His respirator tube was still in his mouth, and the double, vacuum-interlined
leather of his safety suit had kept him from freezing in the spatial cold of the stratosphere.
He looked south.

All the proud thousands of the defense fleet were gone, blown to fragments by the time bombs
from above. The city was hidden in a thick, muddy-yellow fog. "Queer," the thought ran through
his brain, "that there should be fog in mid-afternoon, under a blazing sun." Then he saw them,
the circling black ships of the enemy, trailing behind them long wakes of the drab yellow vapor
that drifted heavily down to shroud New York with--gas!

Allan felt nauseated as he imagined a fleeting picture of the many-leveled city, of its mist-darkened
streets with swarming myriads of slumped bodies clogging the conveyor belts that still moved
because no hand was left to shut them off; of women and children, and aged or crippled men
strewn in tortured, horrible attitudes in all the roof-parks, in their homes, in every nook
and cranny of the murdered city. He looked beneath his drifting descent and saw roads that
were rivers, alive with every manner of fleeing conveyance, and he groaned, knowing that in
moments the pursuing ships would send down their lethal mist to put an end to that futile flight.

Sugar Loaf Mountain rose toward him. At its very summit was a clearing among the trees, and,
incongruously motionless in that world where every one was rushing from inescapable death,
a man stood calmly there, gazing up at him. Allan screamed down to him! "Run! You fool. Run
or the gas will get you!"

Of course the man could not hear that cry, but one tiny arm rose and pointed south. Allan followed
the direction of the gesture and saw a black plane veering toward him. Then orange flared from
it, though it was distant, and a wave of intolerable heat enveloped him. Something cried within
him: "Too far--he's too far off to kill me with his beam!" Then he knew no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

From New York, from devastated San Francisco, from Rio, from Buenos Aires, from fifty other
desolated points along the seaboards of the Americas, the black fleets swept along the coasts
and inland, vomiting their yellow death till all the continents were blanketed with life-destroying
gas. And in Europe and Australasia the destroying hordes, having smashed the proud defenses
of the coastlines, engaged in the same pursuit, till in one short week all the lands of the
Western Allies were swept clear of life. Then the Eastern ships turned homeward, to wait until
the vapor they had strewn had lost its virulence, and the teeming masses of the East might
take possession of the half world the ebony-painted destroyers had conquered. The black fliers
turned homeward, but there was no homeland left for them to seek!

For though the defense fleets of the Western Coalition had been everywhere beaten, their attack
squadrons had been everywhere successful. All Asia and Africa lay under a pall of milky emerald
gas as toxic, as blasting, as the Easterners' yellow.

And the Westerners were returning too!

In their teleview screens the commanders of the black swarms, and of the white thousands, sought
their home ports, and saw the world to be a haze-covered sphere where not even a fly could
live. Then, as if by common accord, the white ships and the black sped across lifeless hemispheres
to meet in mid-air over the long green swells of the Pacific. They met, and on the instant
they were at each others' throats like two packs of wild dogs, killing, killing, killing till
they themselves were killed. No quarter was asked in that fight, and none given. No hope of
victory was there, nor fear of defeat. Better swift death in the high passion of combat, than
slow, hopeless drifting over a dead world.

But there was one black ship that slunk out of that mass suicide of man's last remnant. Within
its long hulk three motionless forms lay in a welter of blood that smeared their officers'
badges, and a dozen gibbering men labored at the controls of their craft. The long black shadows
came at last to veil an empty sky, and a sea whereon there was drifting wreckage but not one
sign of any life. And as far to the north a shadowed airship sped athwart the moon, searching
for one spot, one tiny patch of solid ground, that was free from the dread gas.

       *       *       *       *       *

Consciousness came slowly back to Allan Dane. At first he was aware, merely, that he was alive.
That was astonishing enough. Even if the orange beam had not killed him with its heat, the
gas should have struck his leather suit. The Easterners could not be behind his own forces
in their development of that terrible weapon.

Allan felt a coolness on his face, his hands, that could mean only that his helmet and gloves
had been removed. He heard movement, and opened his eyes.

At first he could see only blueness, pale and lambent. He gazed dully up at a lustrous, glasslike
substance that arched above him. The sound of some one moving came again, and Allan turned
his head to it. His neck muscles seemed stiff, that simple motion drew tremendously on his
strength.

About fifteen yards away, a man bent over a transparent, boxlike contrivance in which something
fluttered. From this device a metal tube angled away into the wall. There was other apparatus
on the long table at which the man was--

"At last! Clear at last!" a mellow, rounded voice exclaimed jubilantly.

"Clear? Are you sure, Anthony, are you sure?" This other voice, throbbing with vibrant repression
as if its owner feared to believe longed-for tidings come at last, was a woman's. As the man
half turned, its owner came between him and Allan. All he could see of them was that the one
called Anthony was very tall, and thin, and the woman almost as tall, and that both wore hooded
white robes, the woman's falling to her heels, the man's to his knees, waist-girdled with black
cords.

"Look for yourself, Helen."

She bent over the transparent cage. "Oh Anthony, how wonderful!"

Allan attempted to rise. He was unutterably weak; to move a finger was a gigantic task, to
do more impossible. He tried to call out. No sound came from his straining throat.

The couple straightened. The man spoke, too low for Dane to hear. Each took something from
the table, something that gleamed metallically. Then they turned--and Allan saw what the white
robes clothed!

       *       *       *       *       *

Skulls leered at him from beneath the hoods--fleshless skulls; tinted a pale green! Jutting
jawbones, cavernous cheeks, lipless mouths that grinned mirthlessly--his eyes froze to them
and a scream formed within him that he could not utter. Hands appeared from within the flowing
sleeves, and they were skeleton hands, each phalanx clearly marked. They moved, that was the
worst of it, the hands moved; and deep in the shadowed eye-pits of the skulls blue light glowed
in living eyes that peered at something to Allan's right.

His eyes followed the direction of their gaze. Ranged along the wall, and jutting out, he saw
four couches. On each was a figure, shrouded and hooded in white. Utterly still they were--and
the cadaverous countenances exposed between robe and hood betrayed not the slightest twitch.
The arms were crossed on each breast. Allan realized that his own arms were similarly crossed.
He looked down at them, saw the white gleam of a robe that fell down his length in smooth,
still folds, saw his hands--greenish skin stretched tight over fleshless bones. Suddenly it
seemed to him that the air was musty and fetid.

Footsteps slithered across the floor. The woman-form bent over the farthest couch. With one
skeleton hand she bared an arm of the corpselike figure; the other hand lifted--metal glinted
in it and plunged into the unshrinking limb! A slow movement of the bony fingers and the threadlike,
silvery thing was withdrawn. She stared ghoulishly--and the man, too, gazed tensely at her
victim. A long quiver ran through the recumbent shape, another. The death's-head on the pallet
moved slightly--and merciful blackness welled up in Allan's brain....

       *       *       *       *       *

A cool liquid was in his mouth. He swallowed instinctively, and warmth ran through his veins.
He felt strength flooding back into him--and he remembered horror.

"That's better," a mellow voice said, close above him. "Drink just a little more." The cool
liquid came up against Allan's lips again, pungent, and he drank. Once more strength surged
warmingly within him. "That's a good fellow. A little more now."

Fingers were on Allan's wrist, life-warm. There was friendliness in the voice that was speaking
to him, and solicitude. He dared to look.

A skull-like head was right before him. But seen thus closely, the terror of it was lessened.
Fleshless indeed it was. But a parchment skin was tightly drawn over the bones, and Allan could
see that its true shade was a sere yellow. It was the bluish light that had given it the green
of decay. The deep-sunk eyes were kindly; they gleamed with pleasure as Allan's opened; and
the voice asked:

"How do you feel?"

Allan made shift to reply, though a strange lassitude still enervated him, and his mouth was
full of tongue. "Much better, thank you. But who--who...?"

With a sudden access of energy Allan sat up on his couch. He looked about him, and his fears
were back full flood.

He was in a chamber with neither door nor window--floor, walls, and arched ceiling entirely
formed of the palely lustrous, glasslike substance. The room was perhaps twenty by forty feet,
its ceiling curving to about five yards from the floor at its highest point, and the spectral
blue glow that filled it was apparently sourceless. It lit three vacant couches to his left.
To his right were the four he had already seen. The woman was ministering to the occupants
of these--living skeletons that lay flaccid, but whose heads were moving, barely moving from
side to side. Like nothing else but a sepulcher the place seemed, a tomb in which the dead
had come to life!

       *       *       *       *       *

Allan clutched at Anthony's arm, grasped textured fabric that was cold to his frantic touch,
and thin bone beneath. "In Heaven's name," he mouthed, "tell me what sort of place this is
before--" He stopped, appalled by a sudden thought. Perhaps he was insane, this seeming tomb
really some hospital ward transformed by his crazed brain. A wave of weakness overcame him,
and he fell back.

"Careful," the other spoke soothingly, "you must give the plasma time to act or you may harm
yourself."

If Allan shut out sight with his eyelids, and listened only to the resonance of Anthony's voice,
he could hold his slipping grip on reason. He felt that the cloth of his robe was metal, fine
spun and woven. That was strangely reassuring.

"How long do you think you have slept?"

"How long?" Dane murmured. Something told him that he had been unconscious for a long time.
"A week?"

Anthony sighed. "No. Longer than that, much longer." There was reluctance in his tone. "You
have lain here for twenty years."

Allan's eyes flew open, and he stared up into the speaker's face. Twenty years! Somehow it
did not occur to him to disbelieve this astounding statement. He struggled hard to realize
its implication. Two decades had passed since last he remembered. He had been a youth then.
Now he was forty-four.

