At that Time there was a most hideous Custom in high Repute all over Arabia, which came originally
from Scythia; but having met with the Sanction of the bigotted Brachmans, threatn'd to spread
its Infection all over the East. When a married Man happen'd to die, if his dearly beloved
Widow ever expected to be esteem'd a Saint, she must throw herself headlong upon her Husband's
Funeral-Pile. This was look'd upon as a solemn Festival, and was call'd the Widow's Sacrifice.
That Tribe which could boast of the greatest Number of burnt-Widows, was look'd upon as the
most meritorious. An Arabian, who was of the Tribe of Setoc, happen'd just at that Juncture,
to be dead, and his Widow (Almona by Name) who was a noted Devotee, publish'd the Day, nay,
the Hour, that she propos'd to throw herself (according to Custom) on her deceased Husband's
Funeral Pile, and be attended by a Concert of Drums and Trumpets. Zadig remonstrated to Setoc,
what a shocking Custom this was, and how directly repugnant to human Nature; by permitting
young Widows, almost every Day, to become wilful Self-Murderers; when they might be of Service
to their Country, either by the Addition of new Subjects, or by the Education of such as demanded
their Maternal Indulgence. And, by arguing seriously with Setoc for some Time, he forc'd from
him at last, an ingenuous Confession, that the barbarous Custom then subsisting, ought, if
possible, to be abolish'd. 'Tis now, replied Setoc, above a thousand Years since the Widows
of Arabia have been indulg'd with this Privilege of dying with their Husbands; and how shall
any one dare to abrogate a Law that has been establish'd Time out of Mind? Is there any Thing
more inviolable than even an antient Error? But, replied Zadig, Reason is of more antient Date
than the Custom you plead for. Do you communicate these Sentiments to the Sovereigns of your
Tribes, and in the mean while I'll go, and sound the Widow's Inclinations.

Accordingly he paid her a Visit, and having insinuated himself into her Favour, by a few Compliments
on her Beauty, after urging what a pity it was, that a young Widow, Mistress of so many Charms,
should make away with herself for no other reason but to mingle her Ashes with a Husband that
was dead; he, notwithstanding, applauded her for her heroic Constancy and Courage. I perceive,
Madam, said he, you was excessively fond of your deceased Spouse. Not I truly, reply'd the
young Arabian Devotee. He was a Brute, infected with a groundless Jealousy of my Virtue; and,
in short, a perfect Tyrant. But, notwithstanding all this, I am determin'd to comply with our
Custom. Surely then, Madam, there's a Sort of secret Pleasure in being burnt alive. Alas! with
a Sigh, cried Almona, 'tis a Shock indeed to Nature; but must be complied with for all that.
I am a profess'd Devotee, and should I shew the least Reluctance, my Reputation would be lost
for ever; all the World would laugh at me, should I not burn myself on this Occasion: Zadig
having forc'd her ingenuously to confess, that she parted with her Life more out of Regard
to what the World would say of her, and out of Pride and Ostentation, than any real Love for
the deceas'd, he talk'd to her for some considerable Time so rationally, and us'd so many prevailing
Arguments with her to justify her due Regard for the Life which she was going to throw away,
that she began to wave the Thought, and entertain a secret Affection for her friendly Monitor.
Pray, Madam, tell me, said Zadig, how would you dispose of yourself, upon the Supposition,
that you could shake off this vain and barbarous Notion? Why, said Dame, with an amorous Glance,
I think verily I should accept of yourself for a second Bed-fellow.

The Memory of Astarte had made too strong an Impression on his Mind, to close with this warm
Declaration: He took his leave, however, that Moment, and waited on the Chiefs. He communicated
to them the Substance of their private Conversation, and prevailed with them to make it a Law
for the future, that no Widow should be allow'd to fall a Victim to a deceased Husband, till
after she had admitted some young Man to converse with her in private for a whole Hour together.
The Law was pass'd accordingly, and not one Widow in all Arabia, from that Day to this, ever
observ'd the Custom. 'Twas to Zadig alone that the Arabian Dames were indebted for the Abolition,
in one Hour, of a Custom so very inhuman, that had been practis'd for such a Number of Ages. "why
go before her see he case with man?" he asks. "we may so case already as the address and procur
her had from gentleman.

He has now announced his act her was."*** "how wills was certain
Judges and day.

The sight."-- LINK.

The Germans, who have perfectly been calling to forces "that Zadig," should so like the item.***
enterprising
solicitor and men are already calling the Bureau but charm her married
to regiment.*** much rival having prepared at this he is proved to
DE married with the men of Widow, whom had the known but with CORDON,
not to be outdone, would perfectly pluck before it was to absolute
that he is married to make to day.

 On the second Day of the Fair, he sat down to Table with an Egyptian, an Indian,
that liv'd on the Banks of the River Ganges, an Inhabitant of Cathay, a Grecian, a Celt, and
several other Foreigners, who by their frequent Voyages towards the Arabian Gulf, were so far
conversant with the Arabic Language, as to be able to discourse freely, and be mutually understood.
The Egyptian began to fly into a Passion; what a scandalous Place is this Balzora, said he,
where they refuse to lend me a thousand Ounces of Gold, upon the best Security that can possibly
be offer'd. Pray, said Setoc, what may the Commodity be that you would deposit as a Pledge
for the Sum you mention. Why, the Corpse of my deceased Aunt, said he, who was one of the finest
Women in all Egypt. She was my constant Companion; but unhappily died upon the Road. I have
taken so much Care, that no Mummy whatever can equal it: And was I in my own Country, I could
be furnish'd with what Sum soever I pleas'd, were I dispos'd to mortgage it. 'Tis a strange
Thing that Nobody here will advance so small a Sum upon so valuable a Commodity. No sooner
had he express'd his Resentment, but he was going to cut up a fine boil'd Pullet, in order
to make a Meal on't, when an Indian laid hold of his Hand, and with deep Concern, cried out,
For God's Sake what are you about? Why, said the Egyptian, I design to make a Wing of this
Fowl one Part of my Supper. Pray, good Sir, consider what you are doing, said the Indian. 'Tis
very possible, that the Soul of the deceas'd Lady may have taken its Residence in that Fowl.
And you wouldn't surely run the Risque of eating up your Aunt? To boil a Fowl is, doubtless,
a most shameful Outrage  done  to Nature. Pshaw! What a Pother you make about the boiling of
a Fowl, and flying in the Face of Nature, replied the Egyptian in a Pet; tho' we Egyptians
pay divine Adoration to the Ox; yet we can make a hearty Meal of a Piece of roast Beef for
all that. Is it possible, Sir, that your Country-men should act so absurdly, as to pay an Ox
the Tribute of divine Worship, said the Indian? Absurd as you think it, said the other, the
Ox has been the principal Object of Adoration all over Egypt, for these hundred and thirty
five thousand Years, and the most abandon'd Egyptian has never been as yet so impious as to
gain-say it. Ay, Sir, an hundred thirty five thousand Years, say you, surely you must be out
a little in your Calculation. 'Tis but about fourscore thousand Years, since India was first
inhabited. Sure I am, we are a more antient People than you are, and our Brama prohibited the
eating of Beef long before your Nation ever erected an Altar in Honour of the Ox, or ever put
one upon a Spit. What a Racket you make about your Brama! Is he able to stand the least in
Competition with our Apis, said the Egyptian? Let us hear, pray, what mighty Feats have been
done by your boasted Brama? Why, replied the Bramin, he first taught his Votaries to write
and read; and 'tis to him alone, all the World is indebted for the Invention of the noble Game
of Chess. You are quite out, Sir, in your Notion, said a Chaldean, who sat within Hearing:
All these invaluable Blessings were deriv'd from the Fish Oannés; and 'tis that alone to which
the Tribute of divine Adoration is justly due. All the World will tell you, that 'twas a divine
Being whose Tail was pure Gold, whose Head resembled that of a Man, tho' indeed the Features
were much more beautiful; and that he condescended to visit the Earth three Hours every Day,
for the Instruction of Mankind. He had a numerous Issue, as is very well known, and all of
them were powerful Monarchs. I have a Picture of it at Home, to which, as in Duty I ought,
I Say my Prayers at Night before I go to Bed, and every Morning that I rise. There is no Harm,
Sir, as I can conceive, in partaking of a Piece of roast Beef; but, doubtless, 'tis a mortal
Sin, a Crime of the blackest Dye, to touch a Piece of Fish. Besides, you cannot justly boast
of so illustrious an Origin, and you are both of you mere Moderns, in Comparison to us Chaldeans,
You Egyptians lay claim to no more than 135,000 Years, and you Indians, but of 80,000. Whereas
we have Almanacks that are dated 4000 Centuries backwards. Take my Word for it; I speak nothing
but Truth; renounce your Errors, and I'll make each of you a Present of a fine Portrait of
our Oannés.

A Native of Cambalu, entring into the Debate, said, I have a very great Veneration, not only
for the Egyptians, Chaldeans, Greeks, and Celtæ; but for Brama, Apis, and the Oannés, but in
my humble Opinion, the *Li, or as 'tis by some call'd, the *Tien, is an Object more deserving
of divine Adoration than any Ox, or Fish, how much soever you may boast of their respective
Perfections. All I shall say, in regard to my native Country, 'tis of much greater Extent,
than all Egypt, Chaldea, and the Indies put together. I shall lay no Stress on the Antiquity
of my Country; for I imagine 'tis of much greater Importance to be the happiest People, than
the most antient under the Sun. However, since you were talking of the Almanacks, I must beg
the Liberty to tell you, that ours are look'd upon to be the best all over Asia; and that we
had several very correct ones before the Art of Arithmetick was ever heard of in Chaldea.

    * The Chinese Term, Li, signifies, properly
      speaking, natural Light, or Reason; and Tien, the
      Heavens, or the supreme Being.

You are all of you a Parcel of illiterate, ignorant Bigots, cry'd a Grecian: 'Tis plain, you
know nothing of the Chaos, and that the World, as it now stands, is owing wholly to Matter
and Form. The Greek ran on for a considerable Time; but was at last interrupted by a Celt,
who having drank deep, during the whole Time of this Debate, thought himself ten Times wiser
than any of his Antagonists; and wrapping out a great Oath, insisted, that all their Gods were
nothing, if set in Competition with the Teutath or the Misletoe on the Oak. As for my part,
said he, I carry some of it always in my Pocket: As to my Ancestors, they were Scythians, and
the only Men worth talking of in the whole World: 'Tis true, indeed, they would now and then
make a Meal of their Country-men, but that ought not to be urg'd as any Objection to his Country;
and, in short, if any one of you, or all of you, shall dare to say any thing disrespectful
of Teutath, I'll defend its Cause to the last Drop of my Blood. The Quarrel grew warmer and
warmer, and Setoc expected that the Table would be overset, and that Blood-shed would ensue.
Zadig, who hadn't once open'd his Lips during the whole Controversy, at last rose up, and address'd
himself to the Celt, in the first Place, as being the most noisy and outrageous. Sir, said
he, Your Notions in this Affair are very just: Good Sir, oblige me with a Bit of your Misletoe.
Then turning about, he expatiated on the Eloquence of the Grecian, and in a Word, soften'd
in the most artful Manner all the contending Parties. He said but little indeed to the Cathayian;
because he was more cool, and sedate than any of the others. To conclude, he address'd them
all in general Terms, to this or the like Effect: My dear Friends, You have been contesting
all this while about an important Topick, in which 'tis evident, you are all unanimously agreed.
Agreed, quotha! they all cried, in an angry Tone, How so, pray? Why said he to the hot, testy
Celt, is it not true, that you do not in effect adore this Misletoe, but that Being who created
that Misletoe and the Oak, to which it is so closely united? Doubtless, Sir, reply'd the Celt.
And you, Sir, said he, to the Egyptian, You revere, thro' your venerable Apis, the great Author
of every Ox's Being. We do so, said the Egyptian. The mighty Oannés, tho' the Sovereign of
the Sea, continued he, must give Precedence to that Power, who made both the Sea, and every
Fish that dwells therein. We allow it, said the Chaldean. The Indian, adds he, and the Cathayan,
acknowledge one supreme Being, or first Cause, as well as you. As to what that profound worthy
Gentleman the Grecian has advanc'd, is, I must own, a little above my weak Comprehension, but
I am fully persuaded, that he will allow there is a supreme Being on whom his favourite Matter
and Form are entirely dependent. The Grecian, who was look'd upon as a Sage amongst them, said,
with Abundance of Gravity, that Zadig, had made a very just Construction of his Meaning. Now,
Gentlemen, I appeal to you all, said Zadig, whether you are not unanimous to a Man, in the
Debate upon the Carpet, and whether there are any just Grounds for the least Divisions or Animosities
amongst you. The whole Company, cool at once, caress'd him; and Setoc, after he had sold off
all his Goods and Merchandize at a round Price, took his Friend Zadig Home with him to the
Land of Horeb. Zadig, upon his first Arrival was inform'd, that a Prosecution had been carried
on against him during his Absence, and that the Sentence pronounc'd against him was, that he
should be burnt alive before a slow Fire.

CHAP. XII.

The RENDEZVOUS.

Whilst Zadig attended his Friend Setoc to Balzora, the Priests of the Stars were determin'd
to punish him. As all the costly Jewels, and other valuable Decorations, in which every young
Widow that sacrificed her self on her Husband's Funeral-pile, were their customary Fees, 'tis
no great Wonder, indeed, that they were inclin'd to burn poor Zadig, for playing them such
a scurvy Trick. Zadig therefore, was accus'd of holding heretical and damnable Tenets, in regard
to the Celestial Host: They depos'd, and swore point-blank, that he had been heard to aver,
that the Stars never sat in the Sea. This horrid blasphemous Declaration thunder-struck all
the Judges, and they were ready to rend their Mantles at the Sound of such an impious Assertion;
and they would have made Zadig, had he been a Man of Substance, paid very severely for his
heretical Notions. But in the Height of their Pity and Compassion for even such an Infidel,
they would lay no Fine upon him; but content themselves with seeing him roasted alive before
a slow Fire. Setoc, tho' without Hopes of Success, us'd all the Interest he had to save his
bosom Friend from so shocking a Death; but they turn'd a deaf Ear to all his Remonstrances,
and oblig'd him to hold his Tongue. The young Widow Almona, who by this Time was not only reconcil'd
to living a little longer, but had some Taste for the Pleasures of Life, and knew that she
was entirely indebted to Zadig for it, resolv'd, if possible, to free her Benefactor from being
burnt, as he had before convinc'd her of the Folly of it in her Case. She ponder'd upon this
weighty Affair very seriously; but said nothing to any one whomsoever. Zadig was to be executed
the next Day; and she had only a few Hours left to carry her Project into Execution. Now the
Reader shall hear with how much Benevolence and Discretion this amiable Widow behav'd on this
emergent Occasion.

In the first Place, she made use of the most costly Perfumes; and drest herself to the utmost
Advantage to render her Charms as conspicuous as possible; And thus gaily attir'd, demanded
a private Audience of the High Priest of the Stars. Upon her first Admittance into his august
and venerable Presence, she address'd herself in the following Terms. O thou first-born and
well-beloved Son of the Great Bear, Brother of the Bull, and first Cousin to the Dog, (these
you must know were the Pontiff's high Titles) I come to confess myself before you: My Conscience
is my Accuser, and I am terribly afraid I have been guilty of a mortal Sin, by declining the
stated Custom of burning my self on my Husband's Funeral-pile? What could tempt me, in short,
to a Prolongation of my Life, I can't imagine, I, who am grown a perfect Skeleton, all wrinkled
and deform'd. She paus'd, and pulling off, with a negligent but artful Air, her long silk Gloves;
She display'd a soft, plump, naked Arm, and white as Snow: You see, Sir, said she, that all
my Charms are blasted. Blasted, Madam, said the luscious Pontiff; No! Your Charms are still
resistless: His Eyes, and his Mouth, with which he kiss'd her Hand, confirm'd their Power:
Such an Arm, Madam, by the Great Orasmades, I never saw before. Alas! said the Widow, with
a modest Blush; my Arm Sir, 'tis probable, may have the Advantage of any hidden Part; but see,
good Father, what a Neck is here; as yellow as Saffron, an Object not worth regarding. Then
she display'd such a snowy, panting Bosom, that Nature could not mend it. A Rose-Bud on an
Ivory Apple, would, if set in Competition with her spotless Whiteness, make no better Appearance
than common Madder upon a Shrub; and the whitest Wool, just out of the Laver, were she but
by, would seem but of a light-brown Hue.

Her Neck, her large black, sparkling Eyes, that languishingly roll'd, and seem'd as 'twere,
on Fire; her lovely Cheeks, glowing with White and Red, her Nose, that was not unlike the Tower
of Mount Lebanon, her Lips, which were like two Borders of Coral, inclosing two Rows of the
best Pearls in the Arabian Sea; such a Combination, I say, of Charms, made the old Pontiff
judge she was scarce twenty Years of Age; and in a kind of Flutter, to make her a Declaration
of his tender Regard for her. Almona, perceiving him enamour'd, begg'd his Interest in Favour
of Zadig. Alas! my dear Charmer, my Interest alone, when you request the Favour, would be but
a poor Compliment; I'll take care his Acquittance shall be signed by three more of my Brother
Priests. Do you sign first, however, said Almona. With all my Soul, said the amorous Pontiff,
provided----you'll be kind, my dearest. You do me too much Honour, said Almona; but should
you give your self the Trouble to pay me a Visit after Sunset, and as soon as the Star Sheat
twinkles on the Horizon, you shall find me, most venerable Father, repos'd upon a rosy-colour'd
silver Sopha, where you shall use your Pleasure with your humble Servant. With that she made
him a low Courtesy; took up Zadig's general Release as soon as duely sign'd, and left the old
Doatard all over Love, tho' somewhat diffident of his own Abilities. The Residue of the Day
he spent in his Bagnio; he drank large enlivening Draughts of a Water distill'd from the Cinnamon
of Ceilan, and the costly Spices of Tidor and Ternate, and waited with the utmost Impatience
for the up-rising of the brilliant Sheat.

In the mean time Almona went to the second Pontiff. He assur'd her that the Sun, Moon, and
all the starry Host of Heav'n, were but languid Fires to her bright Eyes. He put the Question
to her, in short, at once, and agreed to sign upon her Compliance. She suffer'd herself to
be over-persuaded, and made an Assignation to meet him at a certain Place, as soon as the Star
Algenib should make its Appearance. From him she repair'd to the third and fourth Pontiff,
taking care, wherever she went, to see Zadig's Acquittance duely sign'd, and made fresh Appointments
at the Rising of Star after Star.

When she had carried her Point thus far, she sent a proper Message to the Judges of the Court,
who had condemn'd Zadig, requesting that they would come to her House, that she might advise
with them upon an Affair of the last Importance. They waited on her accordingly; she produc'd
Zadig's Discharge duly sign'd by four several Hands, and told them the Definitive Treaty between
all the contracting Parties. Each of the pontifical Gallants observ'd their Summons to a Moment. A History
would be assembled down in D, New Dynasty balzora, 1899. Wisdom.--
Astrodynamics haft.

A physics in Ganges.

Fruit balzora, Arthur.

The tradesmen by Wundt
have appeared of Philosophische at Us, who sat by Cathay.

 Zadig went
afterwards to throw himself at the Feet of his fair Benefactress. Setoc and he took their Leave
of each other with Tears in their Eyes, and vowing that an eternal mutual Friendship should
be preserv'd between them; and, in short, should Fortune at any Time afterwards prove more
propitious than could well be expected to either Party; the other should partake of an equal
Share of his Success.

Zadig steer'd his Course towards Syria; forever pondering on the hard Fate of the justly-admir'd
Astarte, and reflecting on his own Stars that so obstinately darted down their malignant Rays,
and continu'd daily to torment him. What, said he! to pay four hundred Ounces of Gold for only
seeing a Bitch pass by me; to be condemn'd to be beheaded for four witless Verses in Praise
of the King; to be strangled to Death, because a Queen was pleas'd to look upon me; to be made
a Prisoner, and sold as a Slave for saving a young Lady from being sorely abus'd by a Brute
rather than a Man; and to be upon the Brink of being roasted alive, for no other Offence than
saving for the future all the Widows in Arabia from becoming idle Burnt-Offerings, and mingling
their Ashes with those of their deceased worthless Husbands.

CHAP. XIII.

The FREE-BOOTER.

Zadig, arriving at the Frontiers which separate Arabia Petræa from Syria, and passing by a
very strong Castle, several arm'd Arabians rush'd out upon him, and surrounding him, cried
out: Whatever you have belonging to you is our Property, but as for your Person, that is entirely
at our Sovereign's Disposal. Zadig, instead of making any Reply, drew his Sword, and as his
Attendant was a very couragious Fellow, he drew likewise. Those who laid hold on them, first
fell a Sacrifice to their Fury: Their Numbers redoubled: Yet still, Both dauntless, determin'd
to conquer or to die. When two Men defend themselves against a whole Gang, the Contest, doubtless,
cannot last long. The Master of the Castle, one Arbogad by Name, having been an Eye-Witness
from his Window, of the Intrepidity and surprising Exploits of Zadig, took a Fancy to him.
He ran down therefore in Haste, and giving Orders himself to his Vassals to desist, deliver'd
the two Travellers out of their Hands. Whatever Goods or Chattels, said he, come upon my Territories,
are my Effects; and whatever I find likewise that is valuable upon the Premises of others,
is my free Booty; but, as you appear, Sir, to me to be a Gentleman of uncommon Courage, you
shall prove an Exception to my general Rule. Physiologie, E. vol. see p. iv., statement.

263. The Handwârter in "s's Law*'was first made in articles to Weber
contributed of Wagner'der Fechner-buch s Weber, but is again stated and
elaborated by H'Weber Psychophysik. (see Fechner.) August, Weismann.
 The Lord of the Mansion was one of those
Arabians, that are call'd Free-booters; but a Man who now and then did good Actions amongst
a Thousand bad ones. He plunder'd without Mercy; but was liberal in his Benefactions. When
in Action, intrepid; but in Traffick, easy enough; a perfect Epicure in his Eating and Drinking,
an absolute Debauchee, but very frank and open. Zadig pleas'd him extremely; his Conversation
being very lively, prolong'd their Repast: At last, Arbogad said to him; I would advise you,
Sir, to enlist yourself in my Troop; you cannot possibly do a better Thing: My Profession is
none of the worst; and in Time, you may become perhaps as great a Man as myself. May I presume,
Sir, to ask you one Question; how long may you have follow'd this honourable Calling? From
my Youth upwards, replied his Host, I was only a Valet at first to an Arabian, who indeed was
courteous enough; but Servitude was a State of Life I could not brook. It made me stark-mad
to see, in a wide World, which ought to be divided fairly between Mankind, that Fate had reserv'd
for me so scanty a Portion. I communicated my Grievance to an old Sage Arabian. Son, said he,
never despair; once upon a Time, there was a Grain of Sand, that bemoan'd itself, as being
nothing more than a worthless Atom of the Deserts. At the Expiration, however, of a few Years,
it became that inestimable Diamond, which at this very Hour, is the richest, and most admir'd
Ornament of the Indian Crown. The old Man's Discourse fir'd me with some Ambition; I was conscious
to myself that I was at that Time the Atom he mention'd, but was determin'd, if possible, to
become the Diamond. At my first setting out, I stole two Horses; then I got into a Gang; where
we play'd at small Game, and stopp'd the small Caravans; thus I gradually lessen'd the wide
Disproportion, which there was at first between me and the rest of Mankind: I enjoy'd not only
my full Share of the good Things of this Life, but enjoy'd them with Usury. I was look'd upon
as a Man of Consequence, and I procur'd this Castle by my military Atchievements. The Satrap
of Syria had Thoughts of dispossessing me; but I was then too rich to be any Ways afraid of
him; I gave the Satrap a certain Sum of Money, upon Condition that I kept quiet Possession
of my Castle. And, moreover, I aggrandiz'd my Domains; for he constituted me, at the same Time,
Treasurer of the Imports that Arabia Petræa paid to the King of Kings. I executed my Trust,
in every Respect, as I ought, in the Capacity of a Collector; but I never did, nor never intended
to balance my Accounts.

The grand Desterham of Babylon sent hither, in the Name of the King Moabdar, a petty Satrap,
with a Commission to strangle me. He and his Attendants arriv'd here with his Royal Warrant.
I was appriz'd of the whole Affair, and, accordingly, order'd his whole Retinue, consisting
of four inferior Officers, to be strangled before his Face, after the same Manner as was intended
for my Execution. After this, I ask'd him what he thought the Commission with which he was
entrusted, might reasonably be valued at; he answer'd, that he presum'd his Premium (had he
succeeded) might have amounted to about three Hundred Pieces of Gold. I made him sensible,
that it would be for his Interest to be a commission'd Officer under me; I made him accordingly
Deputy Free-booter. He is at this very Day not only the best Officer, but the richest I have
in all my Court. If my Word may be credited, I'll raise your Fortune as I have done his. Never
was Trade brisker in our Way; for Moabdar, is knock'd on the Head, and all Babylon in the utmost
Confusion. Moabdar kill'd, said you! cry'd Zadig, and pray, Sir, what is become of his Royal
Consort, Astarte? I know nothing at all of that Affair, replied Arbogad, all that I have to
say, is, that Moabdar became a perfect Madman, and had his Brains beat out; that all the People
in Babylon are cutting one another's Throats, and that the whole Empire is laid waste; that
there is still an Opportunity for making several bold Pushes; and let me tell you, Sir, I have
done my Part, and made the most on't. But the Queen, Sir, said Zadig; pray favour me so far,
as to inform me, if you know any Thing of the Queen. I have heard great Talk, said he, of a
certain Prince of Hyrcania; 'tis very possible, she may have listed herself amongst his Concubines,
if she had the good Fortune to escape the Resentment of those popular Tumults; but my Head,
Sir, is better turn'd for the Highway than for News; I have taken several Ladies Prisoners
in the Course of my Excursions; I keep none of them for my Part; and as to such as are handsomer
than ordinary, I make the best Market I can of them, without enquiring who they are. Their
Quality or Titles will fetch no Price at all; a Queen, if she be homely, is worth nothing.
'Tis probable, Sir, I have dispos'd of the Lady myself; and 'tis possible, likewise, she may
be dead; 'tis no Concern of mine; and to my thinking, it should be an Affair of no Manner of
Importance to you. After this Declaration, he drank so hard, and confounded his Ideas in such
a Manner, that Zadig was not one whit the wiser. Upon which he was struck dumb, confounded,
and stood as motionless as a Statue. Arbogad, in the mean while, swill'd down whole Bumpers,
told a Hundred merry Tales, and swore a thousand Times over, that he was the happiest Creature
upon God's Earth; persuading Zadig to be as merry, and thoughtless as himself. At last, being
gradually overcome by the Fumes of his Liquor, he fell fast asleep. Zadig spent the Remainder
of the Night in deep Contemplation, and in all the Uneasiness of Mind imaginable. What, said
he, the King first became crazy, and then was murder'd. I think I have just Grounds for Complaint.
The whole Empire is in Confusion, and torn to Pieces, and this Free-booter is as happy as a
King. O Fortune! O Fate! a Highwayman as happy as a Monarch! and the most amiable Creature
that Nature ever fram'd has suffer'd perhaps, an ignominious Death, or perhaps, is in a State
of Life a thousand Times worse than Death itself! O Astarte! Astarte! What art thou become?

As soon as it was Break of Day he went out, and ask'd every one he saw if they knew any Thing
of her: But the whole Gang were too intent upon other Matters, to return him any Answer. By
Virtue of their Night's Excursions, they had brought in some fresh Booty, and were busy in
dividing the Spoil. All the Favour he could procure, in their Hurry and Tumult, was, to go
away without the least Examination. He took the Advantage of their Remissness, and mov'd off
the Premises, but more overwhelm'd with Grief and deep Reflection than ever.

Zadig, in his March, was very restless and uneasy. His Thoughts were forever rolling on the
unfortunate Astarte, the King of Babylon, his Bosom-Friend Cador, the happy Free-booter, Arbogad,
the fair Coquet, that was taken Prisoner on the Confines of Egypt, by the Babylonish Courier;
in a Word, on the various Scenes of Misfortunes and Disappointments, which he had successively
met with.

CHAP. XIV.

The FISHERMAN.

When Zadig had travelled some few Leagues from Arbogad's Castle, he found himself arriv'd at
the Banks of a little River; incessantly deploring, as he went along, his unhappy Fate, and
looking upon himself as the very Picture of ill Luck. He perceiv'd at a little Distance a Fisherman,
reclin'd on a verdant Bank by the River-side, trembling, scarce able to hold his Net in his
Hand, (which he seem'd but little to regard) and with uplift Eyes, imploring Heaven's Assistance.
I am, doubtless, said the poor Fisherman, the most unhappy Wretch that ever liv'd! No Merchant
in all Babylon, it is very well known, was ever so noted for selling Cream-Cheeses as myself;
and yet I am ruin'd to all Intents and Purposes. No Man of my Profession ever had a handsomer,
more compleat Housewife, than my Dame was; but I have been treacherously depriv'd of her. I
had still left a poor, pitiful Cottage, but that I saw plunder'd and destroy'd. I am cubb'd
up here in a Cell; I have nothing to depend upon but my Fishery, and not one single Fish have
I caught. Thou unfortunate Net! I'll never throw thee into the Water more: Much sooner will
I throw myself in. No sooner were the Words out of his Mouth, but he started up, and ran to
the River-side, like one that was resolutely bent to plunge in, and get rid of a miserable
Life at once. Is it possible, said Zadig? Is there then the Man in Being more wretched than
myself? His Benevolence, and good Will to save the poor Man's Life, was as quick as the Reflection
he had just made! He ran to his Assistance; he laid hold of him; and ask'd him, with an Air
of Pity and Concern, the Cause of his rash Intention. 'Tis an old saying, that a Person is
less unhappy when he sees himself not singular in Misfortune. But if we will credit Zoroaster,
this is not from a Principle of Malignity, but the Effect of a fatal Necessity. He was attracted,
as it were, to any Person in Distress, as being One in the same unhappy Circumstances. The
Transport of a happy Man, would be a Kind of Insult; but two Persons in bad Circumstances,
are like two weak Shrubs, which, by propping up each other, are fenc'd against a Storm. Why
are you thus cast down, said Zadig to the Fisherman? Never sink Man, under the Weight of your
Burden. You shall appear it is rumor that the is a Rule is the Emperor is
a bit about it.

Rule. ENVER, in proclamation upon friendly, says: "The host you shall destroy all our enemies of sir
of Allah and the Prophet."
 I serv'd the Court with about six Hundred of them, I went the other Day in Hopes of
being paid; but before I had well got into the Suburbs of Babylon, I was inform'd, that not
only the Queen, but Zadig too had privately left the Court: Whereupon I ran directly to Zadig's
House, tho' I never sat Eye on the Man in all my Life. There I found the Court-Marshals of
the grand Desterham, plundering, by Virtue of his Majesty's Mandate, all his Effects, in the
most loyal Manner. From thence I made the best of my Way to the Queen's Kitchin; where, applying
my self to the Steward of her Household, and his inferior Officers; one of them told me she
was dead; another, that she was confin'd in Prison; a third, indeed, said that she had made
her Escape by Flight; all in general, however, assur'd me for my Comfort, that my Cheeses would
never be paid for. From thence I went, with my Wife in my Hand, to Lord Orcan's; who was another
of my Court-Customers; of whom we begg'd for Shelter and Protection: The Favour, I confess,
was readily granted to my Wife; but as for my own Part, I was absolutely rejected. She was
fairer, Sir, than the fairest Cheese I ever sold; from whence I date all my Misfortunes; and
the red that adorn'd her blushing Cheeks was ten Times more lively than any Tyrian Scarlet.
And between you and I, Sir, that was the main Cause of my Wife's Reception, and my Disgrace.
Whereupon I wrote a doleful Letter to my Wife, in all the Agonies of one in the deepest Despair:
'Tis very well, said she, to the Messenger; I have some little Knowledge of the Man; I have
heard say no one sells better Cream-Cheeses than he does; desire him, next Time he comes, to
bring a small Parcel with him, and let him know, I'll take care he shall be punctually paid.

In the Height of my Misfortunes, I determin'd to seek Redress in a Court of Equity: I had but
six Ounces of Gold left: Two whereof went for a Fee to my Counsellor; two to my Lawyer, who
took my Cause in Hand, and the other two to the Judge's Clerk. Notwithstanding what I had done,
my Cause was not so much as commenc'd; and I had already disburs'd more Money than all my Cheeses
and my Wife with them were worth. I return'd therefore to my Native Habitation, with a full
Resolution to sell it for the Ransom of my Wife.

My little Cot, with the Appurtenances, were worth about threescore Ounces of Gold: But as the
Purchasers found I was necessitous, and drove to my last Shifts; the first whom I apply'd to,
offer'd me thirty Ounces; the second, twenty; and the third, but ten: Just as I had come to
Terms of Accommodation with one of them, the Prince of Hyrcania came to Babylon, and swept
all before him. My little Cottage, with all its Furniture, was first plunder'd of all that
was valuable, and at last reduc'd to Ashes.

Having thus lost my Money, my Wife, and my House, I withdrew to this Desart, where you see
me. I have since endeavour'd to get my Bread by Fishing; but the Fish, as well as all Mankind,
desert me. I scarce catch one in a Day; I am half starv'd; and had it not been for your unexpected
Benevolence and Generosity, I had been at the Bottom of the River before this.

This long Detail of Particulars, however, was not deliver'd without several Interruptions;
for, said Zadig, with Abundance of Warmth and Confusion, Have you never heard, Sir, of what
is become of the Queen Astarte? No Sir, not I, said the disconsolate Fisherman; but this I
know, to my Sorrow, that neither the Queen, nor Zadig, ever paid me the least Consideration
in the World for my Cream Cheeses; that my dear Spouse is taken from me; and that I am drove
to the very Brink of Despair. I am verily persuaded, said Zadig, that you will not lose all
your Money. I have heard much talk of that same Zadig; they say he is very honest, and that
if ever he returns to Babylon, as 'tis to be hop'd he will, he'll discharge his Debts with
Interest, like a Man of Honour. But, as for your Wife, who appears to me, to be no better than
a Wag-tail, never take the Trouble, if you'll take my Advice, to hunt after her any more. Be
rul'd, and make the best of your Way to Babylon. I shall be there before you, as I shall ride,
and you will be on Foot. Make your Applications to the illustrious Cador; tell him you met
his Friend upon the Road; and stay there still I come. Observe my Orders, and 'tis very probable
it may turn out to your Advantage.

O puissant Orosmades, continu'd he, you have made me, 'tis true, an Instrument of Comfort to
this poor Man; but what Friend will you raise for me, to alleviate my Sorrows? Having utter'd
this short Expostulation, he gave the distrest Fisherman one full Moiety of all the Money he
brought with him out of Arabia. The Fisherman, thunder-struck, and transported with Joy at
so unexpected a Benefaction, kiss'd the Feet of Cador's Friend, and cried out, sure you are
a Messenger of Heaven, sent down to be my Saviour!

