It is, however, a well-recognised fact that epidemics of this kind are very much under the
control of scientific precautions, and as we had good advice on the spot, no time was lost
in stamping out the plague.  War is not made with rose-water (it certainly was not rose-water
which reeked along our passages), and fever germs can be exterminated, it seems, by nothing
less exasperatingly unsavoury than carbolic acid, an agency which was laid on without any ruth.
Grumblers were offered the alternative of being smoked with sulphur.  Some complained of sore
throats, contracted, they said, from the fumes of the disinfectant, and declared that the remedy,
like vaccination, was only a mitigated form of the disorder.  The landlords of our studies
looked on with irresolute wonder, when some of us sprinkled their floors with a potent decoction
poured from watering- pots.  Most of them regarded it as a kind of magical rite into which
it would not be seemly to inquire.  In one house a practical seaman, late home from a cruise,
took a less reverent view of the lustration, and uttered hints of what he would do to the perpetrators'
heads if their acid touched his carpets again.  Probably the best disinfectant applied was
the clear strong wind, which ten days after the first case succeeded the previous relaxing
weather.  All windows and doors were ordered wide open for the free passage of the blast; and
the boys were directed to bring down their rugs, great-coats, and dressing-gowns, and anything
of the kind which might be supposed to harbour mischief, and spread them for purification on
the pebbles of the beach.  It will be believed the scene was a quaint one, however it might
remind the scholar of the idyllic laundry scene by the Phaeacian shore, where Nausicaa and
her maidens:

   [Greek verse]

Whether it was these purgations, or the fumes of the carbolic which exorcised the infection,
or whether the pest was starved out by the immediate and careful isolation of the cases that
occurred, we must leave doctors to determine.  It is certain that the epidemic came to an end
in less than ten days after the first case.  That we were able to apply the most necessary
of measures, that of isolating at once all cases declared or suspected, we owe to the readiness
of the villagers to put house-room at our service, a readiness on which we certainly had no
right to calculate.  The rent we might pay them was no measure of the service rendered.  If
a panic had closed their doors, our situation would have been worse than critical.

The cause of the outbreak could not be confidently assigned, but since the most probable theory
traced it to a recent railway excursion made by some school parties, these expeditions were
discontinued for a time.  This was no great privation, for the year was closing in.

About this time, October 16th, the appointment of new "Praepostors" was made, to fill up vacancies
in the body.  In speaking as usual on the occasion, the Headmaster called attention to the
experiment in self-government which our special circumstances were affording.  There would
be little reason for our recording the occasion, were it not that since that date the monitorial
system in public schools has been canvassed in the Press, on occasion of an untoward incident
of recent notoriety, and has been described by some as the parent of the "grossest tyranny,"
ruinous to the future of any school from which the institution is inseparable.  We had thought
this view of the system obsolete, or correct only of schools subject to obsolete conditions.
If we were mistaken, it may be worth while to record an experience which tends to a less pessimistic
conclusion.

It will easily be understood that the mechanical organisation of the school was greatly deranged
by the removal from home.  The boys of the several houses were no longer locally separated,
nor in the same immediate contact with their housemasters; they were restrained by few bolt-and-bar
securities, "lock-up" being for the most part impracticable, and were allowed a larger liberty
in many less definable ways.  At the same time they were exposed to no little discomfort, and
during the rainy months to much monotony, the very conditions which promote bullying and other
mischief.  Further, the same causes which reduced the control of masters, also embarrassed
the upper boys in their monitorial duties.  Thus the school was left in a quite unusual degree
to its self-government, and that government had to act at a disadvantage.

Yet the result was that all went well.  The boys did not bully one another, and they gave their
masters no sort of trouble.  Old rules had to be relaxed, because they could not be enforced,
but no licence came of it; new rules had to be made, which might seem vexatious and not very
intelligible restrictions, but there was no tendency to break them.  Of course wrong things
were done at Borth as elsewhere; but if we were to record the few misdeeds which occur to us,
their insignificance would provoke a smile; while we have good evidence for the belief that
the rate of undetected offences was not increased.

These are the facts we have to record.  Different explanations will suggest themselves to others,
but among observers on the spot there was but one opinion--that the prosperous result was due
to the system of self- government, "monitorial system," or whatever we name the institution,
which rests on the assumption that English boys are capable of responsibility and authority,
and will prove trustworthy if their masters are willing to trust them.  We do not forget that
other factors entered into the cause; one which cannot be ignored was the consciousness of
the boys that the school was on its trial, and that a public one.  But people cannot acquire
self-control merely by the removal of restraints, or behave well, for a long time together
and in spite of tedium, simply because they would like to do so.  The truth is, that in a time
which might have been anarchical, we lived on the fruits of a long-established order; and it
is fair to add that at the end of thirteen months there were no visible symptoms that discipline
was wearing threadbare.

Shall we, for writing this, be taxed with the vain-glory for which public schools are at times
reproached?  We must brave the charge, then; for the facts seem to furnish evidence of a kind
so rarely obtainable, that to omit them from this chapter in school life would be hardly excusable.
An experiment so crucial as that to which we were submitted does not occur once in fifty years.

But enough of serious matters.  Let us go out and forget them in a run with Sir Pryse's harriers,
along the breezy gorse-covered downs of the Gogerddan estate.  We take the train which arrives
just after we have risen from dinner, and land at the upland village of Langfihangel.  It is
a Saturday afternoon, the 21st of October, the day is clear and sunny, and several ladies are
of the party.  A few hundred yards from the station we met the hounds, and Sir Pryse's man
who hunts them.  The owner is not with them, but (by his good leave) yonder tall, lithe fellow,
the best runner in the school, acts as Master of Hounds.  He promises us good sport, having
heard from the huntsman of a hare which is "waiting for us."  As they prepare to cast off,
the non-effectives separate from the runners, and climb a round-topped hill which commands
the country.  The fields are spread like a map under us; nothing on the face of the country
escapes our eyes.  The hare that was "waiting for us" has grown tired of it, and left the rendezvous,
but another is soon started, and a stout one.  She is of the mountain breed, as are many in
this country; they could not otherwise have held out so long before the pursuit of such runners,
to say nothing of the hounds.  The "tally-ho" comes cheerly up to us from the valley through
the crisp October air, and we see puss scudding along up the hedgerow, the hounds and the foremost
runners in the next field, the rest thinning out and straggling behind them.  Among these we
recognise with glee a friend or two, who years ago were in the first flight of every Uppingham
paper-chase (si nunc foret illa uventus), labouring across a turnip-field, or held by the leg
in a gorse- cover.  A check gives them a chance of coming up again with huntsman and master.
We won't spoil the chance by halloing where the hare went, though, from our vantage-ground,
we can view her throughout.  Our friends have just got in line with the leaders, and are finding
their breath again for a second burst, when the scent is recovered; the chase sweeps up the
ridge, and over it out of our sight, away, perhaps, towards the moorland spurs of Plinlimmon.
We descend the hill homewards, leaving puss to her doom, whatever it may be.  For these runs
sometimes had a fatal termination.  In the school serial is told the story of a magnificent
day, of which, however, the runners did not witness the end, for "time was drawing late, and
we were far from the station, so had to leave the hounds under the charge of the huntsman alone,
and as the hare was now exhausted, they soon killed her.  We were on the scent for over two
hours, and ran about twelve miles."  These days took place two or three times a week; for good
practical reasons the "field" was restricted in numbers.

After the short and sharp battle with the scarlet fever narrated above, the term went on very
peacefully, but with a growing expectation that this would not be the last one in Wales.  News
from Uppingham of the unpreparedness of the place to receive us left little room for doubt,
but the question was not decided (at least, officially) even at the date of the break-up. 
The prospect of a fresh period of makeshift life was not a welcome one; but the worst had been
faced by this time, and found, after all, not hard to deal with.  The long dark evenings of
November proved a less difficulty than was anticipated.  With afternoon school shifted to the
hour of sunset, and with meetings of the Debating and other societies on half-holiday evenings,
the dark hours did not hang heavily, and the expected tedium of an Arctic winter was not experienced.
The term closed with a concert given in the Assembly Room at Aberystwith, December 13th, and
another on the next night in the Temperance Hall at popular prices. On the 14th, a team of
Old Boys played the usual football match against the Present School, and were beaten by two
goals to one.  That evening the class-list was read and the prizes given.  If the boys hoped
to gather from the Headmaster's speech an intimation of where they would meet him after Christmas
they were disappointed.  The government had as yet no communication to make.  Next morning,
in the darkness before dawn, the special train carried them to their homes, to await with curiosity
their next marching orders.

CHAPTER XI.--LUDIBRIA MARIS.

   Sit down, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow.

   "THE TEMPEST."

   They said, "and why should this thing be?
   What danger lowers by land or sea?
   They ring the tune of Enderby."

   JEAN INGELOW.

