New York
  State College of Agriculture
  At Cornell University
  Ithaca, N. Y.
  Library

       *       *       *       *       *

  Cabbages

  and

  Cauliflowers:

  HOW TO GROW THEM.

  A PRACTICAL TREATISE, GIVING FULL DETAILS ON EVERY POINT,
  INCLUDING KEEPING AND MARKETING THE CROP.

  BY

  JAMES J. H. GREGORY,

  ORIGINAL INTRODUCER OF THE MARBLEHEAD, DEEP HEAD, WARREN,
  ALL SEASONS, HARD HEADING, AND REYNOLDS CABBAGES.

  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1889, by
  JAMES J. H. GREGORY,
  In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.

  CONTENTS.

                                                                    PAGE
  OBJECT OF TREATISE                                                   1

  THE ORIGIN OF CABBAGE                                                1

  WHAT A CABBAGE IS                                                    2

  SELECTING THE SOIL                                                   4

  PREPARING THE SOIL                                                   5

  THE MANURE                                                           6

  HOW TO APPLY THE MANURE                                              8

  MAKING THE HILLS AND PLANTING THE SEED                              11

  CARE OF THE YOUNG PLANTS                                            16

  PROTECTING THE PLANTS FROM THEIR ENEMIES                            18

  THE GREEN WORM                                                      22

  CLUB, OR STUMP ROOT, OR MAGGOT                                      24

  CARE OF THE GROWING CROP                                            29

  MARKETING THE CROP                                                  30

  KEEPING CABBAGE THROUGH THE WINTER                                  32

  HAVING CABBAGE MAKE HEADS IN WINTER                                 39

  FOREIGN VARIETIES OF CABBAGE                                     43-45

  AMERICAN VARIETIES                                               46-60

  SAVOY VARIETIES                                                  60-63

  OTHER VARIETIES                                                  63-67

  CABBAGE GREENS                                                      67

  CABBAGE FOR STOCK                                                   69

  RAISING CABBAGE SEED                                                73

  COOKING CABBAGE, SOUR-KROUT, ETC.                                   75

  CABBAGE UNDER GLASS                                                 76

  COLD FRAME AND HOT-BED                                              78

  CAULIFLOWER, BROCCOLI, BRUSSELS-SPROUTS, KALE
  AND SEA-KALE                                                        81

CABBAGES AND CAULIFLOWERS.

OBJECT OF THIS TREATISE.

As a general, yet very thorough, response to inquiries from many of my customers about cabbage
raising, I have aimed in this treatise to tell them all about the subject. The different inquiries
made from time to time have given me a pretty clear idea of the many heads under which information
is wanted; and it has been my aim to give this with the same thoroughness of detail as in my
little work on Squashes. I have endeavored to talk in a very practical way, drawing from a
large observation and experience, and receiving, in describing varieties, some valuable information
from McIntosh's work, "The Book of the Garden."

THE ORIGIN OF CABBAGE.

Botanists tell us that all of the Cabbage family, which includes not only every variety of
cabbage, Red, White, and Savoy, but all the cauliflower, broccoli, kale, and brussels sprouts,
had their origin in the wild cabbage of Europe (Brassica oleracea), a plant with green, wavy
leaves, much resembling charlock, found growing wild at Dover in England, and other parts of
Europe. This plant, says McIntosh, is mostly confined to the sea-shore, and grows only on chalky
or calcareous soils.

Thus through the wisdom of the Great Father of us all, who occasionally in his great garden
allows vegetables to sport into a higher form of life, and grants to some of these sports sufficient
strength of individuality to enable them to perpetuate themselves, and, at times, to blend
their individuality with that of other sports, we have the heading cabbage in its numerous
varieties, the creamy cauliflower, the feathery kale, the curled savoy. On my own grounds from
a strain of seed that had been grown isolated for years, there recently came a plant that in
its structure closely resembled Brussels Sprouts, growing about two feet in height, with a
small head under each leaf. The cultivated cabbage was first introduced into England by the
Romans, and from there nearly all the kinds cultivated in this country were originally brought.
Those which we consider as peculiarly American varieties, have only been made so by years of
careful improvement on the original imported sorts. The characteristics of these varieties
will be given farther on.

WHAT A CABBAGE IS.

If we cut vertically through the middle of the head, we shall find it made up of successive
layers of leaves, which grow smaller and smaller, almost ad infinitum. Now, if we take a fruit
bud from an apple-tree and make a similar section of it, we shall find the same structure.
If we observe the development of the two, as spring advances, we shall find another similarity
(the looser the head the closer will be the resemblance),--the outer leaves of each will unwrap
and unfold, and a flower stem will push out from each. Here we see that a cabbage is a bud,
a seed bud (as all fruit buds may be termed, the production of seed being the primary object
in nature, the fruit enclosing it playing but a secondary part), the office of the leaves being
to cover, protect, and afterwards nourish the young seed shoot. The outer leaves which surround
the head appear to have the same office as the leaves which surround the growing fruit bud,
and that office closes with the first year, as does that of the leaves surrounding fruit buds,
when each die and drop off. In my locality the public must have perceived more or less clearly
the analogy between the heads of cabbage and the buds of trees, for when they speak of small
heads they frequently call them "buds." Lo
here a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of Saturn and Sirius put the pretense
animal in the palm of the hand. The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed
caught by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion; sailors caught barrels
of wine, toss them at the hand of Micromegas, and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of
quarts circle, their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally both were
busy, they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers, and it was a club with an iron
tip nailed him a foot in the index finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become
something The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at first, as its
microscope barely enough to distinguish a ship of a whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous
as a man. I do not want censure of any vanity here, but please vainglorious people to stop the
consideration here, and consider that if ordinary height of a man five feet of the king, but
do not lump in the ground than in a ball ten feet in circumference did an animal that had a hundred
avos thousand of an inch high. Let us imagine a substance that could lead the globe terraquueeo
in hand, and had bodies similar to ours, and it is most likely that there many of these substances,
and I gather that is what the functions of war, we have won two or three small place that has since
been restoring force would think.

I have no doubt that if any captain of grenadiers shall read this
book, have your troop put hats two feet higher, but I warn you that,
however you do, always will be the and his soldiers about infinitely
small.

iQue wonderful mana you need our philosopher had Sirius for
managing to descry the atoms of which I speak!

Quando Hartsoeker Leuwenhoek and saw, or believed that Vian for the first time, the seed of
which we are formed, there was not nearly as amazing discovery. iQue Micromegas like that of
when he saw these razors wiggle, when examine all their movements,
and continued its operations! iCom cried! icon who retired extension
cord to his partner of one of its microscopes journey!

I'm watching them, they said both together; behold as loaded as baxan and rise. So they said,
and they shook hands the joy of seeing objects as new, and the fear of losing sight. Saturnino
passing of a trust to the opposite end of credulity, it figures that he was busy watching
in the propagation. Ha, he said the Saturnino, I have caught nature "red-handed." However Enganabanle
appearances, and so very frequeentemente happens, when one uses and when do not use microscopes.

CHAPTER
VI.

From what I happened to men.

Very best observer Micromegas his dwarf, he saw clearly that the atoms were spoken, and it pointed
out to his partner, which with the embarrassment of having deceived about the article the generation,
unwilling to believe that such kind of bugs could communicate ideas.

He had the gift of tongues is not less than Sirius, and not hearing
about our atoms, supposed who did not speak: then? as the organs were
to have a voice as subtle bodies, or that they had to say?

To talk is essential to consider and if thought, had something which
was equivalent to the soul: and attribute something equivalent to
a kind soul so base, is to much nonsense.

The Syrian told him:? For You thought not, little does, which were falling in love? ? Do you
think to love one without thinking, without saying a word, or at least not make themselves understood?
, Or suppose it is easiest thing to a child a syllogism? My one and one I seem impenetrable mysteries.
I dare ya, 'said the dwarf, to believe or deny any thing, try to look these insects, and runs
later. iQue my place! Micromegas answered, and drawing a tixeras, trim her nails, and short of what
one of her thumb made the point a kind of big horn, like a huge funnel, and put the fee at
an ear, the circumference funnel took the ship and all its crew, and the weakest voice in the
fibers were introduced circular one, so that, through their industry, the philosopher of heard up
there well the buzz of our insects abaxo here, and within hours was able to distinguish words, and
understanding after the French. So did the dwarf, but not so easily. Spot grew the astonishment of
the two travelers, on hearing about quite a few mites reason, and this game seemed inexplicable
nature. Well it goes that he was dying the dwarf and Syrian desire to engage in conversation
with the atoms, but the dwarf is feared his thunderous voice, and even more of Micromegas, thundered
to the mites without being overheard. They tried, as to diminish its force, and it got a toothpick
in his mouth very tiny, very sharp as he was going to stop next to the ship. He put the dwarf on
the Syrian his knees and one on top of a ship with the crew; Baxo head and spoke very quietly,
and after all these precautions and many more, said the following: Invisible bugs the right hand
of the Creator is pleased to produce in the abyss of the infinitely small, I manifest myself worthy
bless because impenetrable secrets. Perhaps no one is worthy of yourselves in my court, but
I despise anyone, and I give you my protection.

If there has been amazing in the world, none has reached the that this was heard to say, unable
to hit upon which he left. The chaplain pray the prayers of spells, and disowned voted sailors,
and forged a philosophers of the ship, but for most envisioned systems, were unable to hit upon
who was speaking to them. And he told them in brief the dwarf of Saturn, which was less Micromegas
is stronger voice with which people were talking, and his journey to Saturn: I inform the gentleman
who was Micromegas, and having compassion they were so young, I wonder if they had always lived
in a state as bordering on nothing, and that was what they were doing in a balloon which appeared
to be peculiar to whales, if they were happy, if they had soul, if
multiplied, and a thousand other questions of this sort.

Dudasen angry that if I had a soul, a reasoning of the band, more daring than others, the participant
observed a finlets adapted to a quarter of a circle, measured with two triangles, and the third
told him so:? With what you believe, sir knight, that because you have two thousand yards from head
to toe, you are some ...? gone a thousand yards! exclaimed the dwarf, it is not wrong or an inch.
iCon I measured the atom! icon that is geometry, and he knows my size and I that I can not
see without the aid of a microscope, not even yours! Yes, that I have measured he said the physical,
and also measure your giant companion.

Admitiose the proposal, and Acosto His Excellency on the ground, because they stood their head
was higher than the clouds, and our philosophers they planted a tree in a very large site or Torres
Quevedo been appointed by name, but I do not dare to lie on the great respect that I have the
ladies, and then by a series of triangles, connected to each other, guessing that the person
was a mancebito mediate hundred and twenty thousand feet of a king.

Micromegas then burst out in these reasons: I see that you never have to judge things its apparent
magnitude. O God, who gave intelligence to some substances such despicable seem infinitely
small costs no more to your omnipotence that the infinitely large; and if it is possible that other
creatures smaller than them, perhaps will have a higher intelligence that of those huge animals
I've seen in the sky, and with one foot would cover the entire globe where I am now.

Answered one of the philosophers who could not believe it, but you have any doubt, he had loved
much more intelligent boys than men, and told him not fables that we have forsaken Virgilio on bees,
but what Swammerdam discovered, and what has dissected Reaumur. Instructed him then there are
animals that are about bees, which are the bees with respect man, and what was the Syrian same with
respect to those so stout of animals speaking, and what are these big animals compared with
other substances to the quale seem imperceptible atoms.

Gradually the conversation was becoming interesting, Micromegas and said so.

CHAPTER VII.

Conversations with men.

O atoms intelligent, in whom it pleased the eternal Being in showing their art and power no doubt
that your globe PLEASURE purest happy, as having so little substance
and looking all spirit, you ought to use your life in love and think
that is true life of the spirits.

In part I have seen no real happiness, but I am sure this is his
mansion.

Encogieronse shoulders to hear this argument all the philosophers;
and more naive one sincerely confessed, except a very few of residents
very little appreciated, everything else is a cafile crazy, perverse
and unfortunate.

More material we have, he said, which is necessary to do evil, if evil comes from matter, and
more intelligence, if it comes from intelligence. ? Par example You know that when this one
hundred thousand fools of our species, who wear hats, are killing a hundred thousand other animals
covered with a turban, or dying at their hands, and so is style throughout the land, immemorial
time here? The Syrian terribly shocked, and asked the reason for such horrible strife between
so vile little creatures. It is, he said the philosopher, a few scraps of land sizes as your foot,
not because neither one of the millions who die request even a lump of that piece, it is to
know whether to belong to a certain man Sultan called or another surname Cesar, do not know why.
Neither has been and never see the little corner of land that is in dispute, nor least almost
none of the animals that has been reciprocally are killed either by the person who kills the animal.

iDesventurados!
Sirius exclaimed indignantly:? as you can imagine so mad frenzy? Starters come to give me three
steps, with three kicks estruxar ridiculous this whole swarm of murderers. You do not take that
job, he responded, which left them till toil ruin. Know that within ten years in life fails,
the tenth of these wretches, and that even without drawing the sword, almost everyone carries
the hunger, fatigue, or the distemper, apart from that it is they who deserve punishment, but
the idle ruthless, which stuck sent in his cabinet, as they digest the food, slaughter a million
men, and are then solemn thanksgiving to God. I felt the walker moved to pity the wretched lineage
human in so many contradictions found qual.

As you, he said to these gentlemen, the short number of scholars who certainly kill anyone
for money, I pray you tell me quale are your occupations. Dissected flies, "replied the philosopher,
measured lines, combined numbers, we agree on two or three points that mean, and divided on
two or three thousand who do not understand. It occurred to Sirius and ask questions Saturnino
atoms thinkers, to know about that they were consistent. ? Far is, he said this, since the star
Canicula to the big Geminis? They answered together: Thirty-two degrees and one-half .--? Quanto
far from here the moon? - Sixty semi-diameter of the earth .--? Quanto weighs your ayre? Taken
if any thought, but all they told him that weighed nine hundred times less the same volume of
water lighter, and nineteen thousand times less than gold. Astonished the little elves urgently
Saturn with their answers, I was tempted to believe that those were magic ones to whom a quarter
of an hour before the intelligence had been denied.

Micromegas finally said to them: Once you know how time what is outside of you no doubt that you
will know better yet what is inside: say they know what is your soul and how are your ideas. Philosophers
spoke all at the same time, as before, but all were of a different opinion. I quote the most
ancient to Aristotle, one pronounce the name of Descartes, that the Malebranche, that that of
Leibnitz, Locke and the other. The old peripatetic he said with confidence: The soul is a entelechia,
a reason under the qual is power being what it is, so what Aristotle says expressly, pag. 633
of the edition of Louvre: Entelexeia esti, etc. I do not understand the Greek, 'said the giant.
Nor I, "replied the plowman philosophical. ?

Well, that citais, "replied the Syrian, in that Aristotle in Greek? Because what you do not understand,
"said the sage, it must include language that does not know.

I take the Cartesian thread, and said: The soul a pure spirit in the womb has received all
the metaphysical ideas, and so leave the has been refined to go to school and relearn what we knew so
well and never gonna know. For these prospered, the animal responded eight leagues, who could
both remember when I was in your soul the womb of your mother, if had to be so ignorant Quando
were your man with a beard. ? Y you mean by spirit? ? That's what I ask? he said the discurridor,
I have no idea none of it: they say that it is not subject .--? And you know what is matter? That
if you answered man. That exemplo stone is brown, and such a figure,
has three dimensions, and is serious and divisible.

That's right, he said on Sirius? But that thing that you think divisible, serious and dark, I'll
say it is? Some attributes see but? The backbone of these attributes you know? No, he said
the other. Then you do not know that something is the matter.

Addressing Mr. Micromegas then another wise beyond his thumb had, asked who was his soul, and
he was doing. Any thing, "replied the philosopher Malebranche; It is God who does everything
for me, I see it in everything I do in everything, and the one who all cooperation does not mine.
Both mating does not exist, "replied the philosopher of Sirius. ? And you, friend told him to Leibniz
who were there, you say? ? That is your soul? A pointer Relox, he said the Leibnizian, which
indicates the hours while you touch my body, or, if you will, touches the soul as the body
signals; or my soul is the mirror of the universe, and my body mirror
frame: this is clear.

Estabalos hearing a sectarian Locke, and when I touch him speak, he said: I do not feed, I know
is that I never thought of as not through my senses. That has substance immaterial and intelligent,
I do not doubt, but God can not communicate intelligence to matter, so I doubt it. Respect
the eternal power, and I do not limit your responsibility; not saying anything, and I stick
to believe that there are many more things possible than you think.

Sirius smiled the animal, and it seemed that this was not the less sane, and if there were no
been for the great disproportion, would have embraced the dwarf from Saturn to sectarian Locke.
Unfortunately the band was in a animalucho with a bonnet on her head, which cutting the wire
to all philosophers, he said that he knew the secret, which was in the Sum Santo Tomas, and
he looked from head to toe with the two inhabitants of heaven, they
support their persons, their worlds, their suns and stars, everything
had been brought to man.

Al hear such nonsense, our two travelers had to fall over each other, killing of that inextinguishable
laughter which, according to Homer, share the lot of the Gods, came and went their stomach
and back, and these comings and goings of the ship fell off one of Sirius in the pants pocket
of Saturnino. Buscaronle both long time after the crew encountered, and got into the ship as best
they could. Grabbed the Syrian to aradorcillos, and speak with great kindness, because it was
something mohino to see that some infinitely small had an almost infinitely large vanity.
Prometioles to compose a book of philosophy very finely written letter for your use, and that
the would see why of all things, and effect before leaving gave them the promised book, which
led to the Academy of Sciences Paris. Quand le Mas opened the secretary, it was found that was
all white, and said: ha, and I boasted to me.

End of story Micromegas.

* * * * *

HISTORY

A GOOD BRAMA.

       

In my journeys I found an old rut, sugeto very sane, educated, discreet,
and with this rich, which made him more sane, because, as he did not
lack anything, did not need to cheat anyone.

Three women governed their very beautiful family, whose husband was,
and when not recreated with their wives, were occupied in philosophy.

He lived with his house that was beautiful, well-jeweled and pleasant gardens, an old India,
blessed, silly, and very poor.

Díxome one day the rut: I never been born. Ask why, and he replied: Quarenta years I am studying,
and all I have lost forty; taught to others, and do not know everything.


On land that has been very highly manured for a series of years, cabbage can be planted nearer
than on land that has been under the plow but a few years. For the distance apart for different
varieties see farther on. The manure is levelled with hoes, a little soil is drawn over it,
and a slight stamp with the back of the hoe is given to level this soil, and, at the same time,
to mark the hill. The planter follows with seed in a tin box, or any small vessel having a
broad bottom, and taking a small pinch between the thumb and forefinger he gives a slight scratch
with the remaining fingers of the same hand, and dropping in about half a dozen seed covers
them half an inch deep with a sweep of the hand, and packs the earth by a gentle pat with the
open palm to keep the moisture in the ground and thus promote the vegetation of the seed. With
care a quarter of a pound of seed will plant an acre, when dropped directly in the hills; but
half a pound is the common allowance, as there is usually some waste from spilling, while most
laborers plant with a free hand.

The soil over the hills being very light and porous, careless hands are apt to drop the seed
too deep. Care should be taken not to drop the seed all in one spot, but to scatter them over
a surface of two or three inches square, that each plant may have room to develop without crowding
its neighbors.

If the seed is planted in a line instead of in a mass the plants can be left longer before
the final thinning without danger of growing tall and weak.

If the seed is to be drilled in, it will be necessary to scatter the manure all along the furrows,
then cover with a plough, roughly leveling with a rake.

Should the compost applied to the hills be very concentrated, it will be apt to produce stump
foot; it will, therefore, be safest in such cases to hollow out the middle with the corner
of the hoe, or draw the hoe through and fill in with earth, that the roots of the young plants
may not come in direct contact with the compost as soon as they begin to push.

When guano or phosphates are used in the hills it will be well to mark out the rows with a
plough, and then, where each hill is to be, fill in the soil level to the surface with a hoe,
before applying them. I have, in a previous paragraph, given full instructions how to apply
these. Hen manure, if moist, should be broken up very fine, and be mixed with some dry earth
to prevent it from again lumping together, and the mixture applied in sufficient quantity to
make an equivalent of a heaping handful of pure hen manure to each hill. Any liquid manure
is excellent for the cabbage crop; but it should be well diluted, or it will be likely to produce
stump foot.

Cabbage seed of almost all varieties are nearly round in form, but are not so spherical as
turnip seed. I note, however, that seed of the Savoys are nearly oval. In color they are light
brown when first gathered, but gradually turn dark brown if not gathered too early. An ounce
contains nearly ten thousand seed, but should not be relied upon for many over two thousand
good plants, and these are available for about as many hills only when raised in beds and transplanted;
when dropped directly in the hills it will take not far from eight ounces of the larger sorts
to plant an acre, and of the smaller cabbage rather more than this. Cabbage seed when well
cured and kept in close bags will retain their vitality four or five years; old gardeners prefer
seed of all the cabbage family two or three years old.

When the plan is to raise the young plants in beds to be transplanted, the ground selected
for the beds should be of rich soil; this should be very thoroughly dug, and the surface worked
and raked very fine, every stone and lump of earth being removed. Now sprinkle the seed evenly
over the bed and gently rake in just under the surface, compacting the soil by pressure with
a board. As soon as the young plants appear, sprinkle them with air-slaked lime. Transplant
when three or four inches high, being very careful not to let the plants get tall and weak.

For late cabbage, in the latitude of Boston, to have cabbages ready for market about the first
of November, the Marblehead Mammoth should be planted the 20th of May, other late drumheads
from June 1st to June 12th, provided the plants are not to be transplanted; otherwise a week
earlier. In those localities where the growing season is later, the seed should be planted
proportionally later.

CARE OF THE YOUNG PLANTS.

In four or five days, if the weather is propitious, the young plants will begin to break ground,
presenting at the surface two leaves, which together make nearly a square, like the first leaves
of turnips or radishes. As soon as the third leaf is developed, go over the piece, and boldly
thin out the plants. Wherever they are very thick, pull a mass of them with the fingers and
thumb, being careful to fill up the hole made with fine earth. After the fourth leaf is developed,
go over the piece again and thin still more; you need specially to guard against a slender,
weak growth, which will happen when the plants are too crowded. In thinning, leave the short-stumped
plants, and leave them as far apart in the hill as possible, that they may not shade each other,
or so interfere in growing as to make long stumps. If there is any market for young plants,
thousands can be sold from an acre when the seed are planted in the hill; but in doing this
bear in mind that your principal object is to raise cabbages, and to succeed in this the young
plants must on no account be allowed to stand so long together in the hills as to crowd each
other, making a tall, weak, slender growth,--getting "long-legged," as the farmers call it.

If the manure in any of the hills is too strong, the fact will be known by its effects on the
plants, which will be checked in their growth, and be of a darker green color than the healthy
plants. Gently pull away the earth from the roots of such with the fingers, and draw around
fresh earth; or, what is as well or better, transplant a healthy plant just on the edge of
the hill. When the plants are finger high they are of a good size to transplant into such hills
as have missed, or to market. When transplanting, select a rainy day, if possible, and do not
begin until sufficient rain has fallen to moisten the earth around the roots, which will make
it more likely to adhere to them when taken up. Take up the young plants by running the finger
or a trowel under them; put these into a flat basket or box, and in transplanting set them
to the same depth they originally grew, pressing the earth a little about the roots.

If it is necessary to do the transplanting in a dry spell, as usually happens, select the latter
part of the afternoon, if practicable, and, making holes with a dibble, or any pointed stick
an inch and a half in diameter, fill these holes, a score or more at a time, with water; and
as soon as the water is about soaked away, beginning with the hole first filled, set out your
plants. The evaporation of the moisture below the roots will keep them moist until they get
a hold. Cabbage plants have great tenacity of life, and will rally and grow when they appear
to be dead; the leaves may all die, and dry up like hay, but if the stump stands erect and
the unfolded leaf at the top of the stump is alive, the plant will usually survive. When the
plants are quite large, they may be used successfully by cutting or breaking off the larger
leaves. Some advocate wilting the plants before transplanting, piling them in the cellar a
few days before setting them out, to toughen them and get a new setting of fine roots; others
challenge their vigor by making it a rule to do all transplanting under the heat of mid-day.
I think there is not much of reason in this latter course. The young plants can be set out
almost as fast as a man can walk, by holding the roots close to one side of the hole made by
the dibble, and at the same moment pressing earth against them with the other hand.

PROTECTING THE PLANTS FROM THEIR ENEMIES.

As soon as they have broken through the soil, an enemy awaits them in the small black insect
commonly known as the cabbage or turnip fly, beetle, or flea. This insect, though so small
as to appear to the eye as a black dot, is very voracious and surprisingly active. He apparently
feeds on the juice of the young plant, perforating it with small holes the size of a pin point.
He is so active when disturbed that his motions cannot be followed by the eye, and his sense
of danger is so keen that only by cautiously approaching the plant can he be seen at all. The
delay of a single day in protecting the young plants from his ravages will sometimes be the
destruction of nearly the entire piece. Wood ashes and air-slaked lime, sprinkled upon the
plants while the leaves are moist from either rain or dew, afford almost complete protection.
The lime or ashes should be applied as soon as the plant can be seen, for then, when they are
in their tenderest condition, the fly is most destructive. I am not certain that the alkaline
nature of these affords the protection, or whether a mere covering by common dust might not
answer equally well. Should the covering be washed off by rain, apply it anew immediately after
the rain has ceased, and so continue to keep the young plants covered until the third or fourth
leaves are developed when they will have become too tough to serve as food for this insect enemy.

A new enemy much dreaded by all cabbage raisers will begin to make his appearance about the
time the flea disappears, known as the cut-worm. This worm is of a dusky brown color, with
a dark colored head, and varies in size up to about two inches in length. He burrows in the
ground just below the surface, is slow of motion, and does his mischievous work at night, gnawing
off the young plants close at the surface of the ground. This enemy is hard to battle with.
If the patch be small, these worms can be scratched out of their hiding places by pulling the
earth carefully away the following morning for a few inches around the stump of the plant destroyed,
when the rascals will usually be found half coiled together. Dropping a little wood ashes around
the plants close to the stumps is one of the best of remedies; its alkaline properties burning
his nose I presume. A tunnel of paper put around the stump but not touching it, and sunk just
below the surface, is recommended as efficacious; and from the habits of the worm I should
think it would prove so. Perpendicular holes four inches deep and an inch in diameter is said
to catch and hold them as effectively as do the pit falls of Africa the wild animals. Late
planted cabbage will suffer little or none from this pest, as he disappears about the middle
of June. Some seasons they are remarkably numerous, making it necessary to replant portions
of the cabbage patch several times over. I have heard of as many as twenty being dug at different
times the same season out of one cabbage hill. The farmer who tilled that patch earned his
dollars. When the cabbage has a stump the size of a pipe stem it is beyond the destructive
ravages of the cut-worm, and should it escape stump foot has usually quite a period of growth
free from the attacks of enemies. Should the season prove unpropitious and the plant be checked
in its growth, it will be apt to become "lousy," as the farmers term it, referring to its condition
when attacked by a small green insect known as aphidæ, which preys upon it in myriads; when
this is the case the leaves lose their bright green, turn of a bluish cast, the leaf stocks
lose somewhat of their supporting powers, the leaves curl up into irregular shapes, and the
lower layer turns black and drops off, while the ground under the plant appears covered with
the casts or bodies of the insects as with a white powder. When in this condition the plants
are in a very bad way.

Considering the circumstances under which this insect appears, usually in a very dry season,
I hold that it is rather the product than the cause of disease, as with the bark louse on our
apple-trees; as a remedy I advocate sprinkling the plants with air-slaked lime, watering, if
possible, and a frequent and thorough stirring of the soil with the cultivator and hoe. The
better the opportunities the cabbage have to develop themselves through high manuring, sufficient
moisture, good drainage, and thorough cultivation, the less liable they are to be "lousy."
As the season advances there will sometimes be found patches eaten out of the leaves, leaving
nothing but the skeleton of leaf veins; an examination will show a band of caterpillars of
a light green color at work, who feed in a compact mass, oftentimes a square, with as much
regularity as though under the best of military discipline. The readiest way to dispose of
them is to break off the leaf and crush them under foot. The common large red caterpillar occasionally
preys on the plants, eating large holes in the leaves, especially about the head. When the
cabbage plot is bordered by grass land, in seasons when grasshoppers are plenty, they will
frequently destroy the outer rows, puncturing the leaves with small holes, and feeding on them
until little besides their skeletons remain. In isolated locations rabbits and other vegetable
feeders sometimes commit depredations. The snare and the shot-gun are the remedy for these.

Other insects that prey upon the cabbage tribe, in their caterpillar state, are the cabbage
moth, white-line, brown-eyed moth, large white garden butterfly, white and green veined butterfly.
All of these produce caterpillars, which can be destroyed either by application of air-slaked
lime, or by removing the leaves infested and crushing the intruders under foot. The cabbage-fly,
father-long-legs, the millipedes, the blue cabbage-fly, brassy cabbage-flea, and two or three
other insect enemies are mentioned by McIntosh as infesting the cabbage fields of England;
also three species of fungi known as white rust, mildew, and cylindrosporium concentricum;
these last are destroyed by the sprinkling of air-slaked lime on the leaves. In this country,
along the sea coast of the northern section, in open-ground cultivation, there is comparatively
but little injury done by these marauders, which are the cause of so much annoyance and loss
to our English cousins.

THE GREEN WORM.

A new and troublesome enemy to the cabbage tribe which has made its appearance within a few
years, and spread rapidly over a large section of the country, is a green worm, Anthomia brassicæ.
This pest infests the cabbage tribe at all stages of its growth; it is believed to have been
introduced into this country from Europe, by the way of Canada, where it was probably brought
in a lot of cabbage. It is the caterpillar of a white butterfly with black spots on its wings.
In Europe, this butterfly is preyed on by two or more parasites, which keep it somewhat in
check; but its remarkably rapid increase in this country, causing a wail of lamentation to
rise in a single season from the cabbage growers over areas of tens of thousands of square
miles, proved that when it first appeared it had reached this country without its attendant
parasites.

Besides this green worm, there are found in Europe four varieties of caterpillar variously
marked, the caterpillars from all of which make great havoc among the cabbage tribe.

The most effective destroyer of this, and about every other insect pest, is what is known as
the "Kerosene Emulsion." This is made by churning common kerosene with milk or soap until it
is diffused through the liquid.

Take one quart of kerosene oil and pour it into a pint of hot water in which an ounce of common
soap has been dissolved; churn this briskly while hot (a force pump is excellent for this),
and, when well mixed, which will be in a few minutes, it will be of a creamy consistency; mix
one quart to ten or twelve of cold water, and spray or sprinkle it over the plants with a force-pump
syringe or a whisk broom.

Another remedy is pyrethrum. Use that which is fresh; either blowing it on in a dry state with
a bellows, wherever the worm appears, or using it diluted, at the rate of a tablespoonful to
two gallons of water; applying as with the kerosene emulsion. Mr. A. S. Fuller, who is good
authority on garden matters, succeeds by applying tar-water. Place a couple of quarts of coal
tar in a barrel and fill with water; let it stand forty-eight hours, then dip off, and apply
with a watering-pot, or syringe.

Chickens allowed to run freely among the growing plants, the hen being confined in a movable
coop, if once attracted to them will fatten on them. This remedy might answer very well for
small plots. Large areas in cabbage, in proportion to their size are, as a rule, far less injured
by insect enemies than small patches. The worm is of late years less troublesome in the North
than formerly.

CLUB OR STUMP FOOT AND MAGGOT.

The great dread of every cabbage grower is a disease of the branching roots, producing a bunchy,
gland-like enlargement, known in different localities under the name of club foot, stump foot,
underground head, finger and thumb. The result is a check in the ascent of the sap, which causes
a defective vitality. There are two theories as to the origin of club foot; one that it is
a disease caused by poor soil, bad cultivation, and unsuitable manures; the other that the
injury is done by an insect enemy, Curculio contractus. It is held by some that the maggots
at the root are the progeny of the cabbage flea. This I doubt. This insect, "piercing the skin
of the root, deposits its eggs in the holes, lives during a time on the sap of the plant, and
then escapes and buries itself for a time in the soil."

If the wart, or gland-like excrescence, is seen while transplanting, throw all such plants
away, unless your supply is short; in such case, carefully trim off all the diseased portions
with a sharp knife. If the disease is in the growing crop, it will be made evident by the drooping
of the leaves under the mid-day sun, leaves of diseased plants drooping more than those of
healthy ones, while they will usually have a bluer cast. Should this disease show itself, set
the cultivator going immediately, and follow with the hoe, drawing up fresh earth around the
plants, which will encourage them to form new fibrous roots; should they do this freely, the
plants will be saved, as the attacks of the insect are usually confined to the coarse, branching
roots. Should the disease prevail as late as when the plants have reached half their growth,
the chances are decidedly against raising a paying crop.

When the land planted is too wet, or the manure in the hill is too strong, this dreaded disease
is liable to be found on any soil; but it is most likely to manifest itself on soils that have
been previously cropped with cabbage, turnip, or some other member of the Brassica family.

Farmers find that, as a rule, it is not safe to follow cabbage, ruta baga, or any of the Brassica
family, with cabbage, unless three or four years have intervened between the crops; and I have
known an instance in growing the Marblehead Mammoth, where, though five years had intervened,
that portion of the piece occupied by the previous crop could be distinctly marked off by the
presence of club-foot.

Singular as it may appear, old gardens are an exception to this rule. While it is next to impossible
to raise, in old gardens, a fair turnip, free from club-foot, cabbages may be raised year after
year on the same soil with impunity, or, at least, with but trifling injury from that disease.
This seems to prove, contrary to English authority, that club-foot in the turnip tribe is the
effect of a different cause from the same disease in the cabbage family.

There is another position taken by Stephens in his "Book of the Farm," which facts seem to
disprove. He puts forth the theory that "all such diseases arise from poverty of the soil,
either from want of manure when the soil is naturally poor, or rendered effete by over-cropping."
There is a farm on a neck of land belonging to this town (Marblehead, Mass.), which has peculiar
advantages for collecting sea kelp and sea moss, and these manures are there used most liberally,
particularly in the cultivation of cabbage, from eight to twelve cords of rotten kelp, which
is stronger than barn manure, and more suitable food for cabbage, being used to the acre. A
few years ago, on a change of tenants, the new incumbent heavily manured a piece for cabbage,
and planted it; but, as the season advanced, stump-foot developed in every cabbage on one side
of the piece, while all the remainder were healthy. Upon inquiry, he learned that, by mistake,
he had overlapped the cabbage plot of last season just so far as the stump-foot extended. In
this instance, it could not have been that the cabbage suffered for want of food; for, not
only was the piece heavily manured that year and the year previous, but it had been liberally
manured through a series of years, and, to a large extent, with the manure which, of all others,
the cabbage tribe delight in, rotten kelp and sea mosses. I have known other instances where
soil, naturally quite strong, and kept heavily manured for a series of years, has shown stump-foot
when cabbage were planted, with intervals of two and three years between. My theory is, that
the mere presence of the cabbage causes stump-foot on succeeding crops grown on the same soil.
This is proved by the fact that where a piece of land in grass, close adjoining a piece of
growing cabbage, had been used for stripping them for market, when this was broken up the next
season and planted to cabbage, stump-foot appeared only on that portion where the waste leaves
fell the year previous. I have another instance to the same point, told me by an observing
farmer, that, on a piece of sod land, on which he ran his cultivator the year previous, when
turning his horse every time he had cultivated a row, he had stump-footed cabbage the next
season just as far as that cultivator went, dragging, of course, a few leaves and a little
earth from the cabbage piece with it. Still, though the mere presence of cabbage causes stump-foot,
it is a fact, that, under certain conditions, cabbage can be grown on the same piece of land
year after year successfully, with but very little trouble from stump-foot. In this town (Marblehead),
though, as I have stated, we cannot, on our farms, follow cabbage with cabbage, even with the
highest of manuring and cultivation, yet in the gardens of the town, on the same kind of soil
(and our soil is green stone and syenite, not naturally containing lime), there are instances
where cabbage has been successfully followed by cabbage, on the same spot, for a quarter of
a century and more. In the garden of an aged citizen of this town, cabbages have been raised
on the same spot of land for over half a century.

The cause of stump foot cannot, therefore, be found in the poverty of the soil, either from
want of manure or its having been rendered effete from over cropping. It is evident that by
long cultivation soils gradually have diffused through them something that proves inimical
to the disease that produces stump foot. I will suggest as probable that the protection is
afforded by the presence of some alkali that old gardens are constantly acquiring through house
waste which is always finding its way there, particularly the slops from the sink, which abound
in potash. This is rendered further probable from the fact given by Mr. Peter Henderson, that,
on soils in this vicinity, naturally abounding in lime, cabbage can be raised year following
year with almost immunity from stump foot. He ascribes this to the effects of lime in the soil
derived from marine shells, and recommends that lime from bones be used to secure the same
protection; but the lime that enters into the composition of marine shells is for the most
part carbonate of lime, whereas the greater portion of that which enters into the composition
of bones is phosphate of lime. Common air-slaked lime is almost pure carbonate of lime, and
hence comes nearer to the composition of marine shells than lime from bones, and, being much
cheaper, would appear to be preferable.

An able farmer told me that by using wood ashes liberally he could follow with cabbage the
next season on the same piece. One experiment of my own in this direction did not prove successful,
where ashes at the rate of two hundred bushels to the acre were used; and I have an impression
that I have read of a like want of success after quite liberal applications of lime. In a more
recent experiment, on a gravelly loam on one of my seed farms in Middleton, Mass., where two
hundred bushels of unleached ashes were used per acre, three-fourths broadcast, I have had
complete success, raising as good a crop as I ever grew the second year on the same land, without
a single stump foot on half an acre. Still, it remains evident, I think, that nature prevents
stump foot by the diffusing of alkalies through the soil, and I mistrust that the reason why
we sometimes fail with the same remedies is that we have them mixed, rather than intimately
combined, with the particles of soil.

The roots of young plants are sometimes attacked by a maggot, though there is no club root
present. A remedy for this is said to be in the burying of a small piece of bi-sulphide of
carbon within a few inches of the diseased plant. I have never tried it, but know that there
is no better insecticide.

As I have stated under another head, an attack of club foot is almost sure to follow the use
of pure hog manure, whether it be used broadcast or in the hill. About ten years ago I ventured
to use hog manure nearly pure, spread broadcast and ploughed in. Stump foot soon showed itself.
I cultivated and hoed the cabbage thoroughly; then, as they still appeared sickly, I had the
entire piece thoroughly dug over with a six-tined fork, pushing it as deep or deeper into the
soil than the plough had gone, to bring up the manure to the surface; but all was of no use;
I lost the entire crop. Yet, on another occasion, stable manure on which hogs had been kept
at the rate of two hogs to each animal, gave me one of the finest lots of cabbage I ever raised.

CARE OF THE GROWING CROP.

As soon as the young plants are large enough to be seen with the naked eye, in with the cultivator
and go and return once in each row, being careful not to have any lumps of earth cover the
plants. Follow the cultivator immediately with the hoe, loosening the soil about the hills.
The old rule with farmers is to cultivate and hoe cabbage three times during their growth,
and it is a rule that works very well where the crop is in good growing condition; but if the
manure is deficient, the soil bakes, or the plants show signs of disease, then cultivate and
hoe once or twice extra. "Hoe cabbage when wet," is another farmer's axiom. In a small garden
patch the soil may be stirred among the plants as often as may be convenient: it can do no
harm; cabbages relish tending, though it is not necessary to do this every day, as one enthusiastic
cultivator evidently thought, who declared that, by hoeing his cabbages every morning, he had
succeeded in raising capital heads.

If a season of drouth occurs when the cabbages have begun to head, the heads will harden prematurely;
and then should a heavy rain fall, they will start to make a new growth, and the consequence
will be many of them will split. Split or bursted cabbage are a source of great loss to the
farmer, and this should be carefully guarded against by going frequently over the piece when
the heads are setting, and starting every cabbage that appears to be about mature. A stout-pronged
potato hoe applied just under the leaves, and a pull given sufficient to start the roots on
one side, will accomplish what is needed. If cabbage that have once been started seem still
inclined to burst, start the roots on the other side. Instead of a hoe they may be pushed over
with the foot, or with the hand. Frequently, heads that are thus started will grow to double
the size they had attained when about to burst. There is a marked difference in this habit
in different varieties of cabbage. I find that the Hard-heading is less inclined to burst its
head than any of the kinds I raise.

MARKETING THE CROP.

When preparing for market cabbages that have been kept over winter, particularly if they are
marketed late in the season, the edges of the leaves of some of the heads will be found to
be more or less decayed; do not strip such leaves off, but with a sharp knife cut clean off
the decayed edges. The earlier the variety the sooner it needs to be marketed, for, as a rule,
cabbages push their shoots in the spring in the order of their earliness. If they have not
been sufficiently protected from the cold, the stumps will often rot off close to the head,
and sometimes the rot will include the part of the stump that enters the head. If the watery-looking
portion can be cut clean out, the head is salable; otherwise it will be apt to have an unpleasant
flavor when cooked. As a rule, cabbages for marketing should be trimmed into as compact a form
as possible; the heads should be cut off close to the stump, leaving two or three spare leaves
to protect them. They may be brought out of the piece in bushel baskets, and be piled on the
wagon as high as a hay stack, being kept in place by a stout canvas sheet tied closely down.
In the markets of Boston, in the fall of the year, they are usually sold at a price agreed
upon by the hundred head; this will vary not only with the size and quality of the cabbage,
but with the season, the crop, and the quality in market on that particular day. Within a few
years I have known the range of price for the Stone Mason or Fottler cabbage, equal in size
and quality, to be from $3 to $17 per hundred; for the Marblehead Mammoth from $6 to $25 per
hundred. Cabbages brought to market in the spring are usually sold by weight or by the barrel,
at from $1 to $4 per hundred pounds.

The earliest cabbages carried to market sometimes bring extraordinary prices; and this has
created a keen competition among market gardeners, each striving to produce the earliest, a
difference of a week in marketing oftentimes making a difference of one half in the profits
of the crop. Capt. Wyman, who controlled the Early Wyman cabbage for several years, sold some
seasons thirty thousand heads if my memory serves me, at pretty much his own price. As a rule,
it is the very early and the very late cabbages that sell most profitably. Should the market
for very late cabbages prove a poor one, the farmer is not compelled to sell them, no matter
at what sacrifice, as would be the case a month earlier; he can pit them, and so keep them
over to the early spring market which is almost always a profitable one. In marketing in spring
it should be the aim to make sale before the crops of spring greens become plenty, as these
replace the cabbage on many tables. By starting cabbage in hot beds a crop of celery or squashes
may follow them the same season.

KEEPING CABBAGES THROUGH THE WINTER.

In the comparatively mild climate of England, where there are but few days in the winter months
that the ground remains frozen to any depth, the hardy cabbage grows all seasons of the year,
and turnips left during winter standing in the ground are fed to sheep by yarding them over
the different portions of the field. With the same impunity, in the southern portion of our
own country, the cabbages are left unprotected during the winter months; and, in the warmer
portions of the South they are principally a winter crop. As we advance farther North, we find
that the degree of protection needed is afforded by running the plough along each side of the
rows, turning the earth against them, and dropping a little litter on top of the heads. As
we advance still farther northward, we find sufficient protection given by but little more
than a rough roof of boards thrown over the heads, after removing the cabbages to a sheltered
spot and setting them in the ground as near together as they will stand without being in contact,
with the tops of the heads just level with the surface.

In the latitude of central New England, cabbages are not secure from injury from frost with
less than a foot of earth thrown over the heads. In mild winters a covering of half that depth
will be sufficient; but as we have no prophets to foretell our mild winters, a foot of earth
is safer than six inches. Where eel-grass can be procured along the sea coast, or there is
straw or coarse hay to spare, the better plan is to cover with about six inches of earth, and
when this is frozen sufficiently hard to bear a man's weight (which is usually about Thanksgiving
time), to scatter over it the eel-grass, forest leaves, straw, or coarse hay, to the depth
of another six inches. Eel-grass, which grows on the sandy flats under the ocean along the
coast, is preferred to any other covering as it lays light and keeps in dead air which is a
non-conductor of heat. Forest leaves are next in value; but snow and water are apt to get among
these and freezing solid destroy most of their protecting value. When I use forest leaves,
I cover them with coarse hay, and add branches of trees to prevent its being blown away. In
keeping cabbages through the winter, three general facts should be borne in mind, viz.: that
repeated freezing and thawing will cause them to rot; that excessive moisture or warmth will
also cause rot; while a dry air, such as is found in most cellars, will abstract moisture from
the leaves, injure the flavor of the cabbage, and cause some of the heads to wilt, and the
harder heads to waste. In the Middle States we have mostly to fear the wet of winter, and the
plan for keeping for that section should, therefore, have particularly in view protection from
moisture, while in the Northern States we have to fear the cold of winter, and, consequently,
our plan must there have specially in view protection from cold.

When storing for winter, select a dry day, if possible, sufficiently long after rainy weather
to have the leaves free of water,--otherwise they will spout it on to you, and make you the
wettest and muddiest scarecrow ever seen off a farm,--then strip all the outer leaves from
the head but the two last rows, which are needed to protect it. This may be readily done by
drawing in these two rows toward the head with the left hand, while a blow is struck against
the remaining leaves with the fist of the right hand. Next pull up the cabbages, which, if
they are of the largest varieties, may be expeditiously done by a potato hoe. If they are not
intended for seed purposes, stand the heads down and stumps up until the earth on the roots
is somewhat dry, when it can be mostly removed by sharp blows against the stump given with
a stout stick. In loading do not bruise the heads. Select the place for keeping them in a dry,
level location, and, if in the North, a southern exposure, where no water can stand and there
can be no wash. To make the pit, run the plough along from two to four furrows, and throw out
the soil with the shovel to the requisite depth, which may be from six to ten inches; now,
if the design is to roof over the pit, the cabbages may be put in as thickly as they will stand;
if the heads are solid they may be either head up or stump up, and two layers deep; but if
the heads are soft, then heads up and one deep, and not crowded very close, that they may have
room to make heads during the winter. Having excavated an area twelve by six feet, set a couple
of posts in the ground midway at each end, projecting about five feet above the surface; connect
the two by a joist secured firmly to the top of each, and against this, extending to the ground
just outside the pit, lay slabs, boards or poles, and cover the roof that will be thus formed
with six inches of straw or old hay, and, if in the North, throw six or eight inches of earth
over this. Leave one end open for entrance and to air the pit, closing the other end with straw
or hay. In the North close both ends, opening one of them occasionally in mild weather.

When cabbages are pitted on a large scale this system of roofing is too costly and too cumbersome.
A few thousand may be kept in a cool root cellar, by putting one layer heads down, and standing
another layer heads up between these. Within a few years farmers in the vicinity of Lowell,
Mass., have preserved their cabbages over winter, on a large scale, by a new method, with results
that have been very satisfactory. They cut off that portion of the stump which contains the
root; strip off most of the outer leaves, and then pile the cabbages in piles, six or eight
feet high, in double rows, with boards to keep them apart, in cool cellars, which are built
half out of ground. The temperature of these, by the judicious opening and closing of windows,
is kept as nearly as possibly at the freezing point. The common practice in the North, when
many thousands are to be stored for winter and spring sales, is to select a southern exposure
having the protection of a fence or wall, if practicable, and, turning furrows with the plough,
throw out the earth with shovels, to the depth of about six inches; the cabbages, stripped
as before described, are then stored closely together, and straw or coarse hay is thrown over
them to the depth of a foot or eighteen inches. Protected thus they are accessible for market
at any time during the winter. If the design is to keep them over till spring, the covering
may be first six inches of earth, to be followed, as cold increases, with six inches of straw,
litter, or eel-grass. This latter is my own practice, with the addition of leaving a ridge
of earth between every three or four rows, to act as a support and keep the cabbages from falling
over. I am, also, careful to bring the cabbages to the pit as soon as pulled, with the earth
among the roots as little disturbed as possible; and, should the roots appear to be dry, to
throw a little earth over them after the cabbages are set in the trench. The few loose leaves
remaining will prevent the earth from sifting down between the heads, and the air chambers
thus made answer a capital purpose in keeping out the cold, as air is one of the best non-conductors
of heat. It is said that muck-soil, when well drained, is an excellent one to bury cabbage
in, as its antiseptic properties preserve them from decay. If the object is to preserve the
cabbage for market purposes only, the heads may be buried in the same position in which they
grew, or they may be inverted, the stump having no value in itself; but if for seed purposes,
they must be buried head up, as, whatever injures the stump, spoils the whole cabbage for that
object. Boy, I scared myself. My head says: "Ido partner"
... We took three novels at once. He dictated the beginning, then I picked up the thread,
and there you are chapters and chapters. Everything is a matter of Philip II, you know, Masked
men, bailiffs, Flemish knights, and some ladies, boy, more brittle than glass and tinder more
fuel ..., the Escorial, the Alcazar of Madrid, Jews, Moors, Renegades, the so-Perez Antonito, that
looks just tangles, and the princess very hussy of Eboli, who with one eye sees more than four, Cardinal
Granvelle, the Inquisition, Prince D. Carlos, great skirt, much monkish habit, much to throw bags
of money for any service, subways, nuns raised helmets, mess and backbiting, natural kids every
moment, and my D. Felipe all full of ointments ... In short, boy, go beyond statements and more
specifications ... Earnings items, half him, half me ... New layer, well-fed children, Tia healed
= (Stopping ...)= suffocated sick and delighted me, working more than bishop and charging
much pecuniary.

- Nice job!

--= (Taking breath.) = Do not think, you need to head, because it's a hell of liornia that we set.
The editor says: "Ido, volcanic imagination: three heads in one." And it's true. Lying down,
son, I feel in my brain sounds like a pot on the fire ... And the street when I am distracted,
I'm thinking of my scenes and my characters. All churches Escoriales seem to me, and serene brackets,
collars and coats. When I get angry, loose from the mouth without knowing Marry I say, and
instead of a Carape is that's beyond me With a hundred thousand horsemen!
 In the course of the winter
they fell over on their sides, which let down the soil from above, and, closing the air-chambers
between them, brought the huge heads into a mass, and the result was, a large proportion of
them rotted badly. At another time, I lost a whole plot by burying them in soil between ledges
of rock, which kept the ground very wet when spring opened; the consequence was, every cabbage
rotted. If the heads are frozen more than two or three leaves deep before they are pitted they
will not come out so handsome in the spring; but cabbages are very hardy, and they readily
rally from a little freezing, either in the open ground or after they are buried, though it
is best, when they are frozen in the open ground, to let them remain there until the frost
comes out before removing them, if it can be done without too much risk of freezing still deeper,
as they handle better then, for, being tougher, the leaves are not so easily broken. If the
soil is frozen to any depth before the cabbages are removed, the roots will be likely to be
injured in the pulling, a matter of no consequence if the cabbages are intended for market,
but of some importance if they are for seed raising. Large cabbages are more easily pulled
by giving them a little twist; if for seed purposes, this should be avoided, as it injures
the stump. A small lot, that are to be used within a month, can be kept hung up by the stump
in the cellar of a dwelling-house; they will keep in this way until spring; but the outer leaves
will dry and turn yellow, the heads shrink some in size, and be apt to lose in quality. Some
practise putting clean chopped straw in the bottom of a box or barrel, wetting it, and covering
with heads trimmed ready for cooking, adding again wet straw and a layer of heads, so alternating
until the barrel or box is filled, after which it is headed up and kept in a cool place, at,
or a little below, the freezing point. No doubt this is an excellent way to preserve a small
lot, as it has the two essentials to success, keeping them cool and moist.

Instead of burying them in an upright position, after a deep furrow has been made the cabbages
are sometimes laid on their sides two deep, with their roots at the bottom of the furrow, and
covered with earth in this position. Where the winter climate is so mild that a shallow covering
will be sufficient protection, this method saves much labor.

HAVING CABBAGE MAKE HEADS IN WINTER.

When a piece of drumhead has been planted very late (sometimes they are planted on ground broken
up after a crop of hay has been taken from it the same season), there will be a per cent. of
the plants when the growing season is over that have not headed. With care almost all of these
can be made to head during the winter. A few years ago I selected my seed heads from a large
piece and then sold the first "pick" of what remained at ten cents a head, the second at eight
cents, and so down until all were taken for which purchasers were willing to give one cent
each. Of course, after such a thorough selling out as this, there was not much in the shape
of a head left. I now had what remained pulled up and carted away, doubtful whether to feed
them to the cows or to set them out to head up during winter. As they were very healthy plants
in the full vigor of growth, having rudimentary heads just gathering in, I determined to set
them out. I had a pit dug deep enough to bring the tops of the heads, when the plants were
stood upright as they grew, just above the surface of the ground; I then stood the cabbages
in without breaking off any of the leaves, keeping the roots well covered with earth, having
the plants far enough apart not to crowd each other very much, though so near as to press somewhat
together the two outer circles of leaves. They were allowed to remain in this condition until
it was cold enough to freeze the ground an inch in thickness, when a covering of coarse hay
was thrown over them a couple of inches thick, and, as the cold increased in intensity, this
covering was increased to ten or twelve inches in thickness, the additions being made at two
or three intervals. In the spring I uncovered the lot, and found that nearly every plant had
headed up. I sold the heads for four cents a pound; and these refuse cabbages averaged me about
ten cents a head, which was the price my best heads brought me in the fall. I have seen thousands
of cabbages in one lot, the refuse of several acres that had been planted on sod land broken
up the same season a crop of hay had been taken from it, made to head by this course, and sold
in the spring for $1.30 per barrel. When there is a large lot of such cabbages the most economical
way to plant them will be in furrows made by the plough. Most of the bedding used in covering
them, if it be as coarse as it ought to be to admit as much air as possible while it should
not mat down on the cabbages, will, with care in drying, be again available for covering another
season, or remain suitable for bedding purposes. These "winter-headed" cabbages, as they are
called in the market, are not so solid and have more shrinkage to them than those headed in
the open ground; hence they will not bear transportation as well, neither will they keep as
long when exposed to the air. The effect of wintering cabbage by burying in the soil is to
make them exceedingly tender for table use.

VARIETIES OF CABBAGE.

If a piece of land is planted with seed grown from two heads of cabbage the product will bear
a striking resemblance to the two parent cabbages, with a third variety which will combine
the characteristics of these two, yet the resemblance will be somewhat modified at times by
a little more manure, a little higher culture, a little better location, and the addition of
an individuality that particular vegetables occasionally take upon themselves which we designate
by the word "sport." The "sports" when they occur are fixed and perpetuated with remarkable
readiness in the cabbage family, as is proved by a great number of varieties in cultivation,
which are the numerous progeny of one ancestor. The catalogues of the English and French seedsmen
contain long lists of varieties, many of which (and this is especially true of the early kinds)
are either the same variety under a different name or are different "strains" of the same variety
produced by the careful selections of prominent market gardeners through a series of years.

Every season I experiment with foreign and American varieties of cabbage to learn the characteristics
of the different kinds, their comparative earliness, size, shape, and hardness of head, length
of stump, and such other facts as would prove of value to market gardeners. There is one fact
that every careful experimenter soon learns, that one season will not teach all that can be
known relative to a variety, and that a number of specimens of each kind must be raised to
enable one to make a fair comparison. It is amusing to read the dicta which appear in the agricultural
press from those who have made but a single experiment with some vegetable; they proclaim more
after a single trial than a cautious experimenter would dare to declare after years spent in
careful observation. The year 1869 I raised over sixty varieties of cabbage, importing nearly
complete suites of those advertised by the leading English and French seed houses, and collecting
the principal kinds raised in this country. In the year 1888, I grew eighty-five different
varieties and strains of cabbages and cauliflowers. I do not propose describing all these in
this treatise or their comparative merits; of some of them I have yet something to learn, but
I will endeavor to introduce with my description such notes as I think will prove of value
to my fellow farmers and market gardeners.

I will here say in general of the class of early cabbages, that most of them have elongated
heads between ovoid and conical in form. They appear to lack in this country the sweetness
and tenderness that characterize some varieties of our drumhead, and, consequently, in the
North when the drumhead enters the market there is but a limited call for them.

It may be well here to note a fundamental distinction between the drumhead cabbage of England
and those of this country. In England the drumhead class are almost wholly raised to feed to
stock. I venture the conjecture that owing in part, or principally, to the fact European gardeners
have never had the motive, and, consequently, have never developed the full capacity of the
drumhead as exampled by the fine varieties raised in this country. The securing of sorts reliable
for heading being with them a matter of secondary consideration, seed is raised from stumps
or any refuse heads that may be standing when spring comes round. For this reason English drumhead
cabbage seed is better suited to raise a mass of leaves than heads, and always disappoints
our American farmers who buy it because it is cheap with the expectation of raising cabbage
for market. English-grown drumhead cabbage seed is utterly worthless for use in this country
except to raise greens or collards.

The following are foreign varieties that are accepted in this country as standards, and for
years have been more or less extensively cultivated: EARLY YORK, EARLY OXHEART, EARLY WINNIGSTADT,
RED DUTCH, RED DRUMHEAD. In my experience as a seed dealer, the Sugar Loaf and Oxheart are
losing ground in the farming community, the Early Jersey Wakefield having, to a large extent,
replaced them.

~Early York.~ Heads nearly ovoid, rather soft, with few waste leaves surrounding them, which
are of a bright green color. Reliable for heading. Stump rather short. Plant two feet by eighteen
inches. This cabbage has been cultivated in England over a hundred years. LITTLE PIXIE with
me is earlier than Early York, as reliable for heading, heads much harder, and is of better
flavor; the heads do not grow quite as large.

~Early Oxheart.~ Heads nearly egg-shaped, small, hard, few waste leaves, stumps short. A little
later than Early York. Have the rows two feet apart, and the plants eighteen inches apart in
the row.

~Early Winnigstadt.~ (A German cabbage.) Heads nearly conical in shape, having usually a twist
of leaf at the top; larger than Oxheart, are harder than any of the early oblong heading cabbages;
stumps middling short. Matures about ten days later than Early York. The Winnigstadt is remarkably
reliable for heading, being not excelled in this respect when the seed has been raised with
care, by any cabbage grown. It is a capital sort for early market outside our large cities,
where the very early kinds are not so eagerly craved. It is so reliable for heading, that it
will often make fine heads where other sorts fail; and I would advise all who have not succeeded
in their efforts to grow cabbage, to try this before giving up their attempts. It is raised
by some for winter use, and where the drumheads are not so successfully raised, I would advise
my farmer friends to try the Winnigstadt, as the heads are so hard that they keep without much
waste. Have rows two feet apart, and plant twenty inches to two feet apart in the rows.

~Red Dutch.~ Heads nearly conical, medium sized, hard, of a very deep red; outer leaves numerous,
and not so red as the head, being somewhat mixed with green; stump rather long. This cabbage
is usually planted too late; it requires nearly the whole season to mature. It is used for
pickling, or cut up fine as a salad, served with vinegar and pepper. This is a very tender
cabbage, and, were it not for its color, would be an excellent sort to boil; to those who have
a mind to eat it with their eyes shut, this objection will not apply.

~Red Drumhead.~ Like the preceding, with the exception that the heads grow round, or nearly
so, are harder, and of double the size. It is very difficult to raise seed from this cabbage
in this country. I am acquainted with five trials, made in as many different years, two of
which I made myself, and all were nearly utter failures, the yield, when the hardest heads
were selected, being at about the rate of two great spoonfuls of seed from every twenty cabbages.
French seed-growers are more successful, otherwise this seed would have to sell at a far higher
figure in the market than any other sort.

~The Little Pixie.~ has much to recommend it, in earliness, quality, reliability for heading,
and hardness of the head; earlier than Early York, though somewhat smaller.

Among those that deserve to be heartily welcomed and grow in favor, are the EARLY ULM SAVOY
(for engraving and description of which see under head of Savoy), and the ST. DENNIS DRUMHEAD,
a late, short-stumped sort, setting a large, round, very solid head, as large, but harder,
than Premium Flat Dutch. The leaves are of a bluish-green, and thicker than those of most varieties
of drumhead. Our brethren in Canada think highly of this cabbage, and if we want to try a new
drumhead, I will speak a good word for this one.

~Early Schweinfurt~, or ~Schweinfurt Quintal~, is an excellent early drumhead for family use;
the heads range in size from ten to eighteen inches in diameter, varying with the conditions
of cultivation more than any other cabbage I am acquainted with. They are flattish round, weigh
from three to nine pounds when well grown, are very symmetrical in shape, standing apart from
the surrounding leaves. They are not solid, though they have the finished appearance that solidity
gives; they are remarkably tender, as though blanched, and of very fine flavor. It is among
the earliest of drumheads, maturing at about the same time as the Early Winnigstadt. As an
early drumhead for the family garden, it has no superior; and where the market is near, and
does not insist that a cabbage head must be hard to be good, it has proved a very profitable
market sort.

The following are either already standard American varieties of cabbage, or such as are likely
soon to become so; very possibly there are two or three other varieties or strains that deserve
to be included in the list. I give all that have proved to be first class in my locality: EARLY
WAKEFIELD, EARLY WYMAN, EARLY SUMMER, ALL SEASONS, HARD HEADING, SUCCESSION, WARREN, VANDERGAW,
PEERLESS, NEWARK, FLAT DUTCH, PREMIUM FLAT DUTCH, STONE MASON, LARGE LATE DRUMHEAD, MARBLEHEAD
MAMMOTH DRUMHEAD, AMERICAN GREEN GLAZED, FOTTLER'S DRUMHEAD, BERGEN DRUMHEAD, DRUMHEAD SAVOY,
and AMERICAN GREEN GLOBE SAVOY. All of these varieties, as I have previously stated, are but
improvements of foreign kinds; but they are so far improved through years of careful selection
and cultivation, that, as a rule, they appear quite distinct from the originals when grown
side by side with them, and this distinction is more or less recognized, in both English and
American catalogues, by the adjective "American" or "English" being added after varieties bearing
the same name.

~Early Wakefield~, sometimes called ~Early Jersey Wakefield.~ Heads mostly nearly conical in
shape but sometimes nearly round, of good size for early, very reliable for heading; stumps
short. A very popular early cabbage in the markets of Boston and New York. Plant two and a
half feet by two feet. There are two strains of this cabbage, one a little later and larger
than the other.

~Early Wyman.~ This cabbage is named after Capt. Wyman, of Cambridge, the originator. Like
Early Wakefield the heads are usually somewhat conical, but sometimes nearly round; in structure
they are compact. In earliness it ranks about with the Early Wakefield, and making heads of
double the size, it has a high value as an early cabbage. Capt. Wyman had entire control of
this cabbage until within the past few years, and, consequently, has held Boston Market in
his own hands, to the chagrin of his fellow market gardeners, raising some seasons as many
as thirty thousand heads. Have the rows from two to two and a half feet apart, and the plants
from twenty to twenty-four inches apart in the row. Crane's Early is a cross between the Wyman
and Wakefield, intermediate in size and earliness.

~Premium Flat Dutch.~ Large, late variety; heads either round or flat, on the top (varying
with different strains); rather hard; color bluish green; leaves around heads rather numerous;
towards the close of the season, the edge of some of the exterior leaves and the top of the
heads assume a purple cast. The edges of the exterior leaves, and of the two or three that
make the outside of the head, are quite ruffled, so that when grown side by side with Stone
Mason, this distinction between the habit of growth of the two varieties is noticeable at quite
a distance. Stumps short; reliable for heading. Have the rows three feet apart, and the plants
from two and a half to three feet apart in the rows. This cabbage is very widely cultivated,
and, in many respects, is an excellent sort to raise for late marketing. There are several
strains of it catalogued by different seedsmen under various names, such as Sure Head, &c.

~Stone Mason.~ An improvement on the Mason, which cabbage was selected by Mr. John Mason of
Marblehead, from a number of varieties of cabbage that came from a lot of seed purchased and
planted as Savoys. Mr. John Stone afterwards improved upon the Mason cabbage, by increasing
the size of the heads. Different growers differ in their standard of a Stone Mason cabbage,
in earliness and lateness, and in the size, form, and hardness of the head. But all these varieties
agree in the characteristics of being very reliable for heading, in having heads which are
large, very hard, very tender, rich and sweet; short stumps, and few waste leaves. The color
of the leaves varies from a bluish green to a pea-green, and the structure from nearly smooth
to much blistered. In their color and blistering some specimens have almost a Savoy cast. The
heads of the best varieties of Stone Mason range in weight from six to twenty-five pounds,
the difference turning mostly on soil, manure, and cultivation.

The Stone Mason is an earlier cabbage than Premium Flat Dutch, has fewer waste leaves, and
side by side, under high cultivation, grows to an equal or larger size, while it makes heads
that are decidedly harder and sweeter. These cabbages are equally reliable for heading. I am
inclined to the opinion that under poor cultivation the Premium Flat Dutch will do somewhat
better than the Stone Mason.

Until the introduction of Fottler's Drumhead it was the standard drumhead cabbage in the markets
of Boston and other large cities of the North. Have the rows three feet apart, and the plants
from two to three feet apart in the row. The name "Large Late Drumhead" includes varieties
raised by several seedsmen in this country, all of which resemble each other in the above characteristics,
and differ in but minor points. Have rows three feet apart, and plants from two and a half
to three feet apart in the row.

~Marblehead Mammoth Drumhead.~ This is the largest of the cabbage family, having sometimes
been grown to weigh over ninety pounds to the plant. It originated in Marblehead, Mass., being
produced by Mr. Alley, probably from the Mason, by years of high cultivation and careful selection
of seed stock. I introduced this cabbage and the Stone Mason to the general public many years
ago, and it has been pretty thoroughly disseminated throughout the United States. Quality,
when well grown, remarkably sweet and tender, as would be inferred from the rapidity of its
growth. Cultivate in rows four feet apart, and allow four feet between the plants in the rows.
Sixty tons of this variety have been raised from a single acre.

~American Green Glazed.~ Heads loose, though rather large, with a great body of waste leaves
surrounding them; quality poor; late; stump long. This cabbage was readily distinguished among
all the varieties in my experimental plot by the deep, rich green of the leaves, with their
bright lustre as though varnished. It is grown somewhat extensively in the South, as it is
believed not to be so liable to injury from insects as other varieties. Plant two and a half
feet apart each way. I would advise my Southern friends to try the merits of other kinds before
adopting this poor affair. I know, through my correspondence, that the Mammoth has done well
as far South as Louisiana and Cuba, and the Fottler, in many sections of the South, has given
great satisfaction.

~Fottler's Early Drumhead.~ Several years ago a Boston seedsman imported a lot of cabbage seed
from Europe, under the name of Early Brunswick Short Stemmed. It proved to be a large heading
and very early Drumhead. The heads were from eight to eighteen inches in diameter nearly flat,
hard, sweet, and tender in quality; few waste leaves; stump short. In earliness it was about
a fortnight ahead of the Stone Mason. It was so much liked by the market gardeners that the
next season he ordered a larger quantity; but the second importation, though ordered and sent
under the same name, proved to be a different and inferior kind, and the same result followed
one or two other importations. The two gardeners who received seed of the first importation
brought to market a fine, large Drumhead, ten days or a fortnight ahead of their fellows. The
seed of the true stock was eagerly bought up by the Boston market gardeners, most of it at
five dollars an ounce. After an extensive trial on a large scale by the market farmers around
Boston, and by farmers in various parts of the United States, Fottler's Cabbage has given great
satisfaction, and become a universal favorite, and when once known it, and especially the improved
strain of it, known as Deep Head, is fast replacing some of the old varieties of Drumhead.
Very reliable for heading.

~Vandergaw Cabbage.~ This new Long Island Cabbage must be classed as A No. 1 for the midsummer
and late market. It is as sure to head as the Succession, and has some excellent characteristics
in common.

It makes large, green heads, hard, tender, and crisp. This is an acquisition.

~The Warren Cabbage.~ This first-class cabbage is closely allied to, but an improvement on,
the old Mason Cabbage of twenty-five years ago. It makes a head deep, round, and very hard,
the outer leaves wrapping it over very handsomely. In reliability for heading no cabbage surpasses
it; a field of them when in their prime is as pretty a sight as a cabbage man would wish to
see. It comes in as early as some strains of Fottler, and a little earlier than others. A capital
sort to succeed the Early Summer. The heads being very thick through, and nearly round, make
it an excellent sort to carry through the winter, as it "peels" well, as cabbage-growers say.
Ten inches in diameter, in size it is just about right for profitable marketing. A capital
sort, exceedingly popular among market-man in this vicinity.

~Early Bleichfeld Cabbage.~ I find the Bleichfeld to be among the earliest of the large, hard-heading
Drumheads, maturing earlier than the Fottler's Brunswick. The heads are large, very solid,
tender when cooked, and of excellent flavor. The color is a lighter green than most varieties
and it is as reliable for heading as any cabbage I have ever grown. The above engraving I have
had made from a photograph of a specimen grown on my grounds.

~Danish Drumhead Cabbage.~ In 1879, Mr. Edward Abelgoord wrote me from Canada, that he raised
a large Drumhead Cabbage, the seed of which was brought from Denmark, which was the best kind
of cabbage that he had seen in that latitude (46°), being very valuable for the extreme North.
It was earlier than Fottler's Drumhead, and made large, flat heads, of excellent flavor, and
was so reliable for heading. I raised a field of this new cabbage, and it proved a large, flat,
early Drumhead, very reliable for heading.

~The Reynolds Early Cabbage.~ In the year 1875, Mr. Franklin Reynolds, of this town, crossed
the Cannon-Ball Cabbage on the Schweinfurt Quintal, by carefully transferring the pollen of
the former on the latter, the stamens having first been removed, and immediately tying muslin
around the impregnated blossoms to keep away all insects. The results were a few ripe seeds.
These were carefully saved and planted the next season, when the product showed the characteristics
of the two parents. The best heads were selected from the lot, and, from these, seeds were
raised. Several selections were made of the choicest heads from year to year; and I now have
the pleasure of introducing the results, a new cabbage which combines the good qualities of
both its parents.

The flavor of this new cabbage is rich, tender, and sweet, being superior to the general Drumhead
class, making it a very superior variety for family use, and also for marketing when there
is not a long transportation. None of the scores of varieties I have ever grown has a shorter
stump than this; the heads appear to rest directly on the ground, and no one is surer to head.

~All-Seasons Cabbage.~ This new cabbage is the result of a cross made by a Long Island gardener
between the Flat Dutch and a variety of Drumhead. The result is a remarkably large, early Drumhead,
that matures close in time with the Early Summer, while it is from one third to one half larger.
It is an excellent variety either as an early or late sort; the roundness of the head, leaving
a thick, solid cabbage, should it become necessary, as is often the case with those marketed
in the spring, to peel off the outer layer of leaves. Heads large in size, solid and tender,
and rich flavored when cooked. It has already, in three years, verified the prophecy I made
when sending it out, and become a standard variety in some localities.

~Gregory's Hard-Heading Cabbage.~ I am not acquainted with any variety of cabbage (I believe
I have raised about all the native and foreign varieties that have been catalogued) that makes
so hard a head as does the "Hard-heading" when fully matured. Neither am I acquainted with
any variety that is so late a keeper as is this; the German gardener, from whom I obtained
it, said that it gave him, and his friends who had it, complete control of the Chicago market
for about a fortnight after all other varieties had "played out." My own experience with it
tends to confirm this statement, for under the same conditions it kept decidedly later than
all my other varieties, was greener in color, and when planted out they were so late to push
seed-shoots that I almost despaired of getting a crop of seed. I find, also, that they are
much less inclined to burst than any of the hard-heading varieties. Heads grow to a good market
size, are more globular than Flat Dutch; and, as might be presumed, of great weight in proportion
to their size. The color is a peculiar green, rather more of an olive than most kinds of cabbage.
About a fortnight later than Flat Dutch. For late fall, winter, and spring sales plant 3 by
3 the first of June.

~Early Deep-Head Cabbage.~ This is a valuable improvement on the Fottler made by years of careful
selection and high cultivation by Mr. Alley of Marblehead, a famous cabbage grower, who, as
the name indicates, has produced a deeper, rounder heading variety than the original Fottler,
thus making what that was not, an excellent sort for winter and spring marketing. It has all
the excellent traits of its parent in reliability for making large, handsome heads.

~Bergen Drumhead.~ Heads round, rather flat on the top, solid; leaves stout, thick, and rather
numerous; stump short. With me, under same cultivation, it is later than Stone Mason. It is
tender and of good flavor. A popular sort in many sections, particularly in the markets of
New York City. Have the plants three feet apart each way.

SAVOY CABBAGES.

The Savoys are the tenderest and richest-flavored of cabbages, though not always as sweet as
a well-grown Stone Mason; nor is a Savoy grown on poor soil, or one that has been pinched by
drouth, as tender as a Stone Mason that has been grown under favoring circumstances; yet it
remains, as a rule, that the Savoy surpasses all other cabbages in tenderness, and in a rich,
marrow-like flavor. The Savoys are also the hardiest of the cabbage tribe, enduring in the
open field a temperature within sixteen degrees of zero without serious injury; and if the
heads are not very hard they will continue to withstand repeated changes from freezing to thawing
for a couple of months, as far north as the latitude of Boston. A degree of freezing improves
them, and it is common in that latitude to let such as are intended for early winter use, in
the family, remain standing in the open ground where they grew, cutting the heads as they are
wanted.

As a rule Savoys neither head as readily (the "Improved American Savoy" being an exception)
nor do the heads grow as large as the Drumhead varieties; indeed, most of the kinds in cultivation
are so unreliable in these respects as to be utterly worthless for market purposes, and nearly
so for the kitchen garden.

~The Drumhead Savoy.~ This, as the name implies, is the result of a cross between a Savoy and
a Drumhead cabbage, partaking of the characteristics of each. Many of the cabbages sold in
the market as Savoy are really this variety. One variety in my experimental garden, which I
received as TOUR'S SAVOY (evidently a Drumhead variety of the Savoy), proved to be much like
Early Schweinfurt in earliness and style of heading; the heads were very large, but quite loose
in structure; I should think it would prove valuable for family use.

It is a fact that does not appear to be generally known that we have among the Savoys some
remarkably early sorts which rank with the earliest varieties of cabbage grown. Pancalier and
Early Ulm Savoy are earlier than that old standard of earliness, Early York; Pancalier being
somewhat earlier than Ulm.

~Pancalier~ is characterized by very coarsely blistered leaves of the darkest-green color;
the heads usually gather together, being the only exception I know of to the rule that cabbage
heads are made up of overlapping leaves, wrapped closely together. It has a short stump, and
with high cultivation is reliable for heading. The leaves nearest the head, though not forming
a part of it, are quite tender, and may be cooked with the head. Plant fifteen by thirty inches.

~Early Ulm Savoy~ is a few days later than Pancalier, and makes a larger head; the leaves are
of a lighter green and not so coarsely blistered; stump short; head round; very reliable for
heading. It has a capital characteristic in not being so liable as most varieties to burst
the head and push the seed shoot immediately after the head is matured. For first early, I
know no cabbages so desirable as these for the kitchen garden.

The ~Early Dwarf Savoy~ is a desirable variety of second early. The heads are rather flat in
shape, and grow to a fair size. Stumps short; reliable for heading.

~Improved American Savoy.~ Everything considered, this is the Savoy, "par excellence," for
the market garden. It is a true Savoy, the heads grow to a large size, from six to ten inches
in diameter, varying, of course, with soil, manure, and cultivation. In shape the heads are
mostly globular, occasionally oblong, having but few waste leaves, and grow very solid. Stump
short. In reliability for heading it is unsurpassed by any other cabbage.

~Golden Savoy~ differs from other varieties in the color of the head, which rises from the
body of light green leaves, of a singular pale yellow color, as though blanched. The stumps
are long, and the head rather small, a portion of these growing pointed. It is very late, not
worth cultivating, except as a curiosity.

~Norwegian Savoy.~ This is a singular half cabbage, half kale--at least, so it has proved under
my cultivation. The leaves are long, narrow, tasselated, and somewhat blistered. The whole
appearance is very singular and rather ornamental. I have tried this cabbage twice, but have
never got beyond the possible promise of a head.

~Victoria Savoy~, ~Russian Savoy~, and ~Cape Savoy~, tested in my experimental garden, did
not prove desirable either for family use or for market purposes.

~Feather Stemmed Savoy.~ This is a cross between the Savoy and Brussels sprouts, having the
habit of growth of Brussels sprouts.

OTHER VARIETIES OF CABBAGE.

I will add notes on some other varieties which have been tested, from year to year, in my experimental
plot. The results from tests of different strains of standard sorts, I have not thought it
worth the while to record.

~Cannon Ball.~ The heads are usually spherical, attaining to a diameter of from five to nine
inches, with the surrounding leaves gathered rather closely around them; in hardness and relative
weight it is excelled by but few varieties. Stump short. It delights in the highest cultivation
possible. It is about a week later than Early York. In those markets where cabbages are sold
by weight, it will pay to grow for market; it is a good cabbage for the family garden.

~Early Cone~, of the Wakefield class, but with me not as early.

~Garfield Pickling~, of late variety, of the conical class.

~Cardinal Red.~ A large, late variety of red; but on my grounds, it is not equal to Red Drumhead.

~Vilmorin's Early Flat Dutch.~ Not quite as large as Early Summer, though about as early and
resembles it in shape of head.

~Royal German Drumhead.~ Reliable for heading.

~Large White Solid Magdeburg.~ A late Drumhead; short stumped; reliable for heading. Medium late.

~Pak Choi.~ Evidently of the Kale class; no heads.

~Chou de Burghlez~ and ~Chou de Milan~. These are coarse, loose, small heading varieties, allied
to Kale. The latter is of the Savoy class.

~Earliest Erfurt Blood-Red.~ Decidedly the earliest of the red cabbages. Very reliable for
heading. A Drumhead; smaller than Red Drumhead. Very dark red.

~Empress.~ Resembles Wyman in size and shape; but the heads are more pointed, and it makes
head earlier. Heads well.

~Schlitzer.~ This makes heads mostly shaped like the Winnigstadt, but a third larger. Its mottling
of green and purple gives it a striking appearance. Early and very reliable for heading. Heads
are not very hard; but, when cooked, are just about as tender and rich-flavored as the Savoy.
Promises to be an excellent sort for family use.

~Rothelburg.~ An early sure heading variety of the Drumhead class. Heads of medium size; resembling
in shape Deep Head.

~Sure Head.~ A strain of Flat Dutch. A late variety; heads deeper than Fottler, but with me
not so reliable.

~Dark Red Pointed.~ Resembles Winnigstadt in shape. About as late as Red Dutch, and not as
desirable.

~Bacalan Late.~ In shape resembles Winnigstadt. Grow a little wild.

~Amack.~ A late variety. Heads generally nearly globular and quite hard. Very reliable for heading.

~Bangholm.~ First of all. As early as the earliest, but very small,--not as large as Little Pixie.

~Early Enfield Market.~

~Tourleville.~ Heads resemble Wakefield in form; but, with me, are neither so large nor so
large, and are more inclined to burst.

~Danish Round Winter.~ A late variety; bearing deep, hard heads on long stumps.

~Dwarf Danish.~ Late. Reliable to head; uneven in time of heading. Worth planting for market.

~Danish Ball Drumhead.~ Heads not characterized by globular shape, but rather flattish. Irregular
in length of stump.

~Early Paris.~ Closely resembles Wakefield.

~Very Early Etampes.~ Earlier than Wakefield. Shape partakes of both Oxheart and Wakefield.

~Early Mohawk.~ Light green in color; a good header, but not so hard heading as Fottler. Appears
to have a little of the Savoy cross in it.

~Sure Head.~ A late variety of the Dutch class; reliable for heading; stump rather long.

~Excelsior.~ A variety which is of the Fottler class, but makes smaller sized heads.

~Louisville Drumhead.~ Of the flat Dutch type; nearly as early as Early Summer. 

Babuca then started to the apprehension of that was right Ituriel genius. With the dowry had Granger
confidence, he knew the secrets that very day the lady, will fio their qual affection to the
boy wizard, ensure that all houses would find the same Persepolis that had been hers. Babuca
inferred that such a society could not last, that all the houses were to be struck by jealousy,
revenge and feuds, which constantly had to shed tears and blood that inevitably had to kill
their husbands to processions their wives, or of being killed by them finally to very well destroy
Ituriel once an abandoned village to horrendous disorders.

After eating was one of the most magnificent temples of the city, and sat in the middle a crowd
of both men and women who had gone there to kill time. Climbed a magician to a high machine
and pondered long about vice and virtue, and having divided in several parts so it was not necessary
to divide, test methods things clearer, taught what he knew everyone, no reason is exalted,
and came out sweating and breathless. Then people awoke, and believed that he had attended
an instruction. Babuca said: "This quanto good man has done has been for the hell of two or three
hundred citizens own, but his intention was good, and this is no reason to destroy Persepolis.

Brought
him, emerging from this gathering, to see a public holiday that was
celebrated every day of the year in a kind of basilica, whose inner
part via a palace.

Were so beautiful spectacle most beautiful women citizens of Persepolis, and the main Satraps
arranged in order, at first believed Babuca that came down to this party. In brief dexaron be seen
in the vestibule of the palace two or three people who looked like kings and queens; their language
was very different from the fashionable to the masses, and had rhythm, harmony and sublimity.
No one is sleeping, we all listened in silence high, and if interrupted him, was to give tests
of general admiration and affection, and with senses so alive and well spoken terms the obligations
of the kings, love of virtue, and the risks of the passions, that drew tears to Babuca: who no
doubt were the preachers of those rule heroes and heroines and those kings and queens who had
just heard, and even made purpose of persuading Ituriel that came to listen, some of which
show similar you reconcile with Persepolis forever.

After the party, wanted to visit the queen at the main palace was beautiful announced and unblemished
moral sublime.

Introduxeran had him at her majesty, and I took a bad ladder to the second floor, where am
in a room poorly adorned and furnished a poorly dressed woman, that noble and pathetic gesture,
he said: "My job gives me no to live, one of the princes who have seen has made me a child: I
am ready to be delivered: no I have money, and without money every birth is a miscarriage.
Darics Babuca gave him a hundred gold, saying: If there were worse things in the city, Ituriel
had little reason to be so angry.

Was there to spend the afternoon at the shops of merchants of magnificence superfluous. Brought
him an intelligent sugeto who had befriended him, bought what I find to their liking, and many
courtesies sold it much more expensive than it was worth. Quando had returned home, let him
see his friend that he had been swindled, and pointed Babuca memory in his book the name the
merchant, for the day of the punishment of the city not take Ituriel forgotten. While writing,
knocked on the door and entered the merchant who brought him to his pocket Babuca forsaken had
been forgotten on the counter. ? As possible, he said Babuca, so that you may be generous and
scrupulous, after having had face to sell your buxerias four much more than they're worth?
There throughout the city, he answered the merchant, merchant none something known, had not come
to bring the pocket, but I have said Quando I I sold in my store that have bought the quadruple
in value, you've been deceived, because I've sold ten times more than what it is worth, and this
is so true that if within one month you get rid of it you want, will not give or tithe, and
there is more thing however as to reason, because as the whim of men that gives value to these
trifles, that same feeds craving hundred workers who use me and my house gives me a good start,
a good car, and good horses. This craving is the one who gives life to the industry, and keeps
the fine taste circulation and abundance. The nations neighboring towns sell them much more expensive
than you the same trifles, and thus serve to benefit the empire. Paros thoughtful Babuca a, time,
and then delete it from his book.

Not knowing what to think of Persepolis, was determined to see wizards and writers, flattering
himself that such a pardon would reach all the rest of the people, because some apply to the
wisdom, and religion of others. The next morning was to visit a school for witches, and he
confessed that he was Archimandrite three hundred thousand crowns for having taken a vow of
poverty, and exercies a vast jurisdiction under another vote humility. That said, I leave to
Babuca in the hands of a magician's apprentice, so gave her.

Ensenabale that the beauties of this house of penance, when the voice spread who brought commission
for reform. Memorials given point each, that all essentially came to say Conservadnos us and remove
all others. If credit was their own apologies, all these congregations were necessary, if attended
to their mutual charges, all deserved to be destroyed. Babuca Pasmabase that there is none
that by building the universe, did not want to be the referee. Then a man Presentosele I was
semi-magician, qual said to him: The great work is going to comply, and has returned to Zerdust
earth: therefore I request that you ampareis against the Grand Lama. ? With that against the pontiff
monarch replied Babuca, which lies in Tibet? - against the same .--? For what? you make him
war, and alistais against an army? - not that, but says that man is free, and we do not believe: we
write against the tomes do not read, and we've heard hardly mind, because we just condemn, as an
owner who sends remove caterpillars from their garden. Babuca Asombrose the folly of men who
profess the wisdom, the tangle of that had renounced the world, lofty ambition and greed of those
who preached humility and disinterest, and gathered that left over good reasons to Ituriel
to destroy all this race.

He retired to his home, sent to buy her new books to calm his anger, and bade eat several writers
for recreation. Reached more than double what had been called as Wasps go to honey. They did not
ford these gorreros to speak and swallow, and praised two classes of men, the dead and their
own, but never to their peers, except the householder. If you said one is a saying acute baxaban
others eyes and bit his tongue feeling of not including the authors. Were less cautious than mages
because they aspired his ambition at such high objects, asking each servant's employment and
reputation of a great man. They began to insults in his face, that they contained sharp epigrams.
Habiaseles Translucent some of the commission of Babuca, and one voice descends beg him to exterminate
an author who had not given enough praise, another asked what the loss of a citizen who in his
plays never laughed, and another the extinction of the academy, because they never had been get
to be your guy. Finished eating, they went away all because in this whole bunch there was two that
might suffer, or talked more than in the homes of the rich than your table guests. Babuca believed
that very little was lost with all this Landre perish in the general destruction.

Just pulled away from them, began to read some books that had just been published, and warned
them the character of his guests. Indignaronle most of all the newsletters of slander, and files
in poor taste dictated by envy, hunger and stupidity, vile satires that respect and tear buytres
pigeons; novels lack of imagination, where thousand portraits are ideal sugetos their authors do
not know. Tyre fire these detestable writings, and came home that afternoon to go for walks.
A literary Presentaronle old man who had not been to increase the number of blobs. Dodging the crowd,
knew the men, wise use of them, and explained to sanity. Spake Babuca with feeling of quanto had
seen and read. Despicable things you have read, The lawyer told him sane, but at all times
and in every country is very common evil, and very rare good. You have been hosting at your
table to the stool of pedantry, because in all profession that is always presented with more chutzpah
is the least deserving out of the square. They live with each other, calmer and in retirement,
the truly wise, and still no shortage of books and authors are entitled to your attention. While
he was talking, I get another writer, and his arguments were so instructive and pleasant,
so far superior to concerns, and so in accordance with virtue, who confessed that he had never
heard Babuca such thing. Men are these, he said to himself, who will not dare to do evil angel
Ituriel, unless it is very ruthless.

No less anger kept the rest of the nation, since it had reconciled
with the literati.

You are a foreigner, he said to the wise man who spoke, and it will show of crowd abuse, while
you hide the well hidden, and that often these same abuses it. He knew then that there was among
many who were not writers envious and even among some who were virtuous wizards. Finally understood
that these large bodies clashes with its apparently preparing common ruin, were in fact beneficial
foundations; each association of wizards was a brake on his rivals, for if sometimes these differed
from opinion, all teach the same morals, who taught the people and subject to the laws, such Zelan the
preceptors that the children at home, while the master Zela them. Treatment many, and found
among them heavenly souls, and knew that among those same crazy they wanted to bring war to the Grand
Lama, had great men. I suspect they could after same thing Persepolis customs of their buildings,
which had seemed a worthy of pity, and others had overwhelmed in astonishment.

One day he said to the writer: Now I know that the Magi, which had been so dangerous, can be very
helpful, especially Quando a prudent government that hinders grange
Influx left:? but profits may result from the colossal wealth of the
contractors and agents of the Treasury?

That same day saw the opulence of these, which had so disgusted, sometimes produces much fruit,
because having the sovereign needed money, I find in one hour through him as through regular
channels in six months had not found, and conventional that these brown clouds, fed with the dew of
the earth, I returned in rain what they received them: besides that the children of these new men,
usually more well educated than those of the oldest families, worth more than these, because having
a father a good calculator does not remove a judge who is right, brave soldier, and skilled statesman.

Slowly
forgive Babuca greed of the settlement, which in reality is neither more nor less greedy than
the others, and is indispensable; apologized to dispel his madness flow for war, that war was
the source of many exploits, and forgave the jealousy of writers, among whom were sugetos illustrating
the world is reconciled with ambitious magicians and stagehands,
who gathered with small vices great virtues, since you were not unscrupulous,
especially on wooing the ladies, and the horrendous consequeencias
that inevitably had to produce, and filled him with horror and fright.

Wanting to examine all statements made to bring him home from a minister, and on the way would
see a woman shaking her husband murdered by his presence. I get to third base of the statesman,
and spent two hours waiting for Dixer he was there, and other two after they had said, by this
time very firm purpose to recommend the minister and his insolent anger of the angel concierges
Ituriel. Was the crowded waiting room ladies of all kinds of wizards
of all colors, judges, merchants, officials and pedantic everyone
was complaining to the minister.

They said the greedy and profiteers: There is no doubt that this guy steals the provinces; disfigured
his flamboyant oddities, said the only sensual has had his tastes, and hoped the women would soon
replace him another minister more handsome.

Babuca heard all these reasons, and could not say, iQue is this man so happy! All your enemies have
them in your waiting room, their power overwhelms their envy, and looks quantos plants to hate him.
At last came into his cabinet, and saw an old man overwhelmed of years and chores, but still
alive, and very smart. Babuca Gustole because it seemed Babuca one worthy of esteem sugeto. The
conference was very interesting: the minister confessed it was most unfortunate man, who had by
rich and poor was, that he believed omnipotent and all was impaired,
that all benefits had been paid with ingratitude, and in forty years
of continuous tasks had been just a bit of satisfaction.

Enterneciose Babuca, and said among themselves that if he had made some mistakes this man,
and they loved him Ituriel punish angel, dexarle enough to charge, not exterminate.

I was arguing with the minister, when I enter the beautiful lady inattentive in whose house had Babuca
eaten, showing his face and eye symptoms of pain and anger. Burst out in bitter complaints against
the statesman, shed tears, lamented bitterly that her husband had denied a charge that could achieve
on its cradle, and that they made him creditor his wounds and services and speak with so much energy,
complained with such grace, faded with mana such objections, provided eloqueencia strengthened their
reasons, that left the cabinet until having the fortune of her husband.

Salio Babuca giving his hand and said to him: Is it possible, madam, that you have taken so much
work you by a man who you want, and how much you have to be afraid? ? How is it you do not love
him? replied the lady, know that my husband is the best friend I have in this world, and that
sacrificeth quanto by all I have, as it is not my lover to do the same thing, less sacrifice his
sweetheart. I want you to know it, it's a very nice lady, very quiet, and excellent genius
had dinner tonight with my husband and my friend the magician: come to join our taste.

She took the lady with him Babuca, and the husband who was plunged into deep grief over received
to his wife in a fit of gratitude and joy, give thousand hugs to his wife, his lady, the magician,
and Babuca. The banquet is encouraged by the happy, thanks and Donayre. Know, he told him the beautiful
lady who was having dinner, which is sometimes described as almost always women without honor
possess the virtues of an honest man, and in proof of this, come dine with me tomorrow home of the
beautiful Theon. Some old Vestal whisper it, but most charities do that together herself that the
bite; not commit the slightest injustice all interests in the world,
to her lover gives advice always generous, just glory by it, and would
blush if their presence on one occasion broken? to do good, because
there is no greater stimulus to virtuous actions, which have the judge
and witness of his conduct which longs for a beloved one to deserve
appreciation.

 Be not deceived
by this transparent cheat, O simple housewife! the coloring matter comes almost wholly from
the copper or brass behind those leaves; and, instead of an innocent vegetable pigment, your
green cucumbers are dyed with the poisonous carbonate of copper.

CABBAGES UNDER GLASS.

The very early cabbages usually bringing high prices, the enterprising market gardener either
winters the young plants under glass or starts them there, planting the seed under its protecting
shelter long before the cold of winter is passed. When the design is to winter over fall grown
plants, the seed are planted in the open ground about the middle of September, and at about
the last of October they are ready to go into the cold frames, as such are called that depend
wholly on the sun for heat. Select those having short stumps and transplant into the frames,
about an inch and a half by two inches apart, setting them deep in the soil up to the lower
leaves, shading them with a straw mat, or the like, for a few days, after which let them remain
without any glass over them until the frost is severe enough to begin to freeze the ground,
then place over the sashes; but bear in mind that the object is not to promote growth, but,
as nearly as possible, to keep them in a dormant state, to keep them so cold that they will
not grow, and just sufficiently protected to prevent injury from freezing. With this object
in view the sashes must be raised whenever the temperature is above freezing, and this process
will so harden the plants that they will receive no serious injury though the ground under
the sash should freeze two inches deep; cabbage plants will stand a temperature of fifteen
to twenty degrees below the freezing point. A covering of snow on the sash will do no harm,
if it does not last longer than a week or ten days, in which case it must be removed. There
is some danger to be feared from ground mice, who, when everything else is locked up by the
frost, will instinctively take to the sash, and there cause much destruction among the plants
unless these are occasionally examined. When March opens remove the sash when the temperature
will allow, replacing it when the weather is unseasonably cold, particularly at night. The
plants may be brought still farther forward by transferring them from the hot-bed when two
or three inches high to cold frames, having first somewhat hardened them. When so transferred
plant them about an inch apart, and shield from the sun for two or three days. After this they
may be treated as in cold frames. The transfer tends to keep them stocky, increases the fibrous
roots and makes the plants hardier. As the month advances it may be left entirely off, and
about the first of April the plants may be set out in the open field, pressing fine earth firmly
around the roots.

When cabbages are raised in hot-beds the seed, in the latitude of Boston, should be planted
on the first of March; in that of New York, about a fortnight earlier. When two or three inches
high, which will be in three or four weeks, they should be thinned to about four or less to
an inch in the row. They should now be well hardened by partly drawing off the sashes in the
warm part of the day, and covering at night; as the season advances remove the sashes entirely
by day, covering only at night. By about the middle of April the plants will be ready for the
open ground.

When raised in cold frames in the spring, the seed should be planted about the first of April,
mats being used to retain by night the solar heat accumulated during the day. As the season
advances the same process of hardening will be necessary as with those raised in hot-beds.

COLD FRAME AND HOT-BED.

To carry on hot-beds on a large scale successfully is almost an art in itself, and for fuller
details I will refer my readers to works on gardening. Early plants, in a small way, may be
raised in flower pots or boxes in a warm kitchen window. It is best, if practicable, to have
but one plant in each pot, that they may grow short and stocky. If the seed are not planted
earlier than April, for out-of-door cultivation, a cold frame will answer.

For a cold frame select the locality in the fall, choosing a warm location on a southern slope,
protected by a fence or building on the north and north-west. Set posts in the ground, nail
two boards to these parallel to each other, one about a foot in height, and the other towards
the south about four inches narrower; this will give the sashes resting on them the right slope
to shed the rain and receive as much heat as possible from the sun. Have these boards at a
distance apart equal to the length of the sash, which may be any common window sash for a small
bed, while three and a half feet is the length of a common gardener's sash. If common window
sash is used cut channels in the cross-bars to let the water run off. Dig the ground thoroughly
(it is best to cover it in the fall with litter, to keep the frost out) and rake out all stones
or clods; then slide in the sash and let it remain closed for three or four days, that the
soil may be warmed by the sun's rays. The two end boards and the bottom board should rise as
high as the sash, to prevent the heat escaping, and the bottom board of a small frame should
have a strip nailed inside to rest the sash on. Next rake in, thoroughly, guano, or phosphate,
or finely pulverized hen manure, and plant in rows four to six inches apart. As the season
advances raise the sashes an inch or two, in the middle of the day, and water freely, at evening,
with water that is nearly of the temperature of the earth in the frame. As the heat of the
season increases whitewash the glass, and keep them more and more open until just before the
plants are set in open ground, then allow the glass to remain entirely off, both day and night,
unless there should be a cold rain. This will harden them so that they will not be apt to be
injured by the cabbage beetle, as well as chilled and put back by the change. Should the plants
be getting too large before the season for transplanting, they should be checked by root pruning,--drawing
a sharp knife within a couple of inches of the stalk. If it is desirable still further to check
their growth, or harden them, transplant into another cold frame, allowing each plant double
the distance it before occupied.

The structure and management of a hot-bed is much the same as that of a cold frame, with the
exception that the sashes are usually longer and the back and front somewhat higher; being
started earlier the requisite temperature has to be kept up by artificial means, fermenting
manure being relied upon for the purpose; and the loss of this heat has to be checked more
carefully by straw matting, and, in the far North, by shutters also. In constructing it, horse-manure,
with plenty of litter, and about a quarter its bulk in leaves, if attainable, all having been
well mixed together, is thrown into a pile, and left for a few days until steam escapes, when
the mass is again thrown over and left for two or three days more, after which it is thrown
into the pit (or it may be placed directly on the surface) which is lined with boards, from
eighteen inches to two feet in depth, when it is beaten down with a fork and trodden well together.
The sashes are now put on and kept there until heat is developed. The first intense heat must
be allowed to pass off, which will be in about three days after the high temperature is reached.
Now throw on six or eight inches of fine soil, in which mix well rotted manure, free from all
straw, or rake in, thoroughly, superphosphate, or guano, at the rate of two thousand pounds
to the acre, and plant the seed as in cold frame. Harden the plants as directed in preceding
paragraph.

CAULIFLOWER, BROCCOLI, BRUSSELS-SPROUTS, KALE, AND SEA-KALE.

My treatise on the cabbage would hardly be complete without some allusion to such prominent
members of the Brassica family as the cauliflower, broccoli, brussels-sprouts, and kale.

~Cauliflower.~ Wrote the great Dr. Johnson: "Of all the flowers of the garden, give me the
cauliflower." Against
the pessimism and determinism of naturalism own, show us a world Valera in which self-determination
and optimism of triumph. All her heroines have something grave - in the eyes of the society of
his time - to be forgiven. And what shows Valera is, so to speak, what can a woman if you have resolution
and good workmanship. Poverty extreme baseness of birth close the horizon Juanita, daughter of Juana
la Larga, and we prohibit, for example, silk dress, but it is an untamed creature y. .. the
reader going to see her perform for himself in the pages that follow, and should not overtake
the surprises that lie ahead. But James certainly professed religion of art, and this and other
conduct become almost invisible behind the adventures of the characters and the prose is admirable
its sobrehaz and attractiveness.

Is a common opinion - to which, on this occasion, I agree - that Juanita is the best between the
novels he wrote Valera. The multiplicity of characters embossed on the plot, without diminishing
the role of the heroine; the successive transformations of the situation, without interruption restart
and expand the story, the reasonable proportion of good and evil between those who make paper
- inevitable - good and bad, the perfection reached by some of the plates, and tested by the author
in previous productions, are some among the what reasons, and I refer it in the few lines of
this preface.

PAULINE Garagorri

I

A friend of mine, deputy novel, whose name was
not put here because it is the case, was entusiasmadísimo with his
district and particularly the place where he had his greatest strength,
place we designate by the name of Villalegre.

This rich, but small population Andalusia, was flourishing then, because its fertile vineyards,
which had not yet phylloxera destroyed, producing exquisite wines to be sold to Jerez to be
agreed in Jerez.

Villalegre was not the head of the judicial district, or officially the most important population
constituency of our friend, but there were few votes were so subordinate
a big vote, all voted unanimously and, as they say, poured the stew
for the person whom the Great Elector appointed.

And understand that this was unanimously to Villalegre, in all elections, the most extraordinary
dominance.

Grateful to our friend the chief of Villalegre, named Don Andrés Rubio, I gave by clouds and we
cited it as proof and example of that fortune is not blind and that
favor with one who is worth it, but with certain limitations, that
is not out of the circle he lives and shows its worth the lucky person.

Without

doubt, don Andrés Rubio, had he lived in Rome in the early centuries of the Christian era, had
been a Marco Aurelio or Trajan, but as Villalegre and lived in our age, quieted and contented
with being the chief, or rather the end or the emperor Villalegre where he was joint number and
where he bowed to the rule and obeying all happy.

Rep. novel, however, more exalted district to another subject, because without it there showed
benevolent omnipotence of Andres Rubio.


The Half-Early Paris, or Demi-Dur, was for years the standard variety raised in this country,
and from this, by selection, favorite local varieties were obtained; but, of late years, this
has been, to a large degree, superseded by several excellent sorts, of which the Extra-Early
Dwarf Erfurt was, doubtless the parent. Principal among these varieties are the Snowball, the
Sea-Foam, Vick's Ideal, and Berlin Dwarf. All of these are early sorts and excellent strains.
After testing them side by side, I find that the best strain of the Snowball is not excelled
by either of them. Of the somewhat later ripening sorts, a variety which originated in this
country, called the "Long Island Beauty," gives me great satisfaction, in its reliability for
heading, and in the large size of its heads; this, with the Algerian, as a larger late sort,
will give us a first-class series.

Cauliflower seed is not raised, as yet, to any large extent in this country, though some successful
efforts have recently been made in this direction. I have found that there is a remarkable
difference between varieties in the quantity of seed they will yield. From one variety I have
raised as high as sixty pounds of seed from a given number of plants, while from two others,
equally early, having the same number of plants in each instance, and raised in the same location
(an island in the ocean), with precisely the same treatment in every way, I got, in each case,
less than a tablespoonful of seed, though the heads of some of them grew to the enormous size
of sixteen inches in diameter.

A fine cauliflower is the pet achievement of the market gardener. It should not be cut in summer
above a day before it is used." The cauliflower is served with milk and butter, or it may become
a component of soups, or be used as a pickle.

The ~Broccoli~ are closely allied to the cauliflower, the white varieties bearing so close
a resemblance that one of them, the Walcheren, is by some classed indiscriminately with each.
The chief distinction between the two is in hardiness, the broccoli being much the hardier.

Of Broccoli over forty varieties are named in foreign catalogues, of which WALCHEREN is one
of the very best. KNIGHT'S PROTECTING is an exceedingly hardy dwarf sort. As a rule, the white
varieties are preferred to the purple kinds. Plant and treat as cauliflower.

Of ~Brussels-Sprouts~ (or bud-bearing cabbage) there are but two varieties, the dwarf and the
tall; the tall kind produces more buds, while the dwarf is the hardier. The "sprouts" form
on the stalks, and are miniature heads of cabbage from the size of a pea to that of a pigeon's
egg. They are raised to but a limited extent in this country, but in Europe they are grown
on a large scale. The sprouts may be cooked and served like cabbage, though oftentimes they
are treated more as a delicacy and served with butter or some rich sauce. The FEATHER STEM
SAVOY and DALMENY SPROUTS are considered as hybrids, the one between the brussels-sprouts and
Savoy, the other between it and Drumhead Savoy. The soil for brussels-sprouts should not be
so rich as for cabbage, as the object is to grow them small and solid. Give the same distance
apart as for early cabbage, and the same manner of cultivation. Break off the leaves at the
sides a few at a time when the sprouts begin to form and when they are ready to use cut them
off with a sharp knife.

~Kale.~ Sea-kale, or sea-cabbage, is a native of the sea coast of England, growing in the sand
and pebbles of the sea-shore. It is a perennial, perfectly hardy, withstanding the coldest
winters of New England. The blossoms, though bearing a general resemblance to those of other
members of the cabbage family, are yet quite unique in appearance, and I think worthy of a
place in the flower garden. It is propagated both by seed and by cuttings of the roots, having
the rows three feet apart, and the plants three feet apart in the rows. It is difficult to
get the seeds to vegetate. Plant seed in April and May. The ground should be richly manured,
and deeply and thoroughly worked. It is blanched before using. In cooking it it requires to
be very thoroughly boiled, after which it is served up in melted butter and toasted bread.
The sea-kale is highly prized in England; but thus far its cultivation in this country has
been very limited.

The ~Borecole~, or common kale, is of the cabbage family, but is characterized by not heading
like the cabbage or producing eatable flowers like the cauliflower and broccoli. The varieties
are very numerous, some of them growing very large and coarse, suitable only as food for stock;
others are exceedingly finely curled, and excellent for table use; while others in their color
and structure are highly ornamental. They are annual, biennial, and perennial. They do not
require so strong a soil or such high manuring as other varieties of the cabbage family.

The varieties are almost endless; some of the best in cultivation for table use are the DWARF
SCOTCH, DWARF GREEN CURLED or GERMAN GREENS, TALL GREEN CURLED, PURPLE BORECOLE, and the variegated
kales. The crown of the plant is used as greens, or as an ingredient in soups. In his long life (he died eighty completed one)
lived many years outside Spain - in Naples, Lisbon, Rio, Dresden, Moscow, Frankfurt, Washington,
Brussels, Vienna - with diplomatic posts that gave him or the government withdrew as it were
governed by political friends and enemies. And he wanted and got actively involved in politics, as
a deputy in various legislatures, and even became Secretary of State but very little time and
for the September Revolution of 1868, as glorious as fleeting. He also had some hacienda own
inherited lands of Córdoba, which sometimes out of trouble and others became involved in debt.
Forties and married with a young woman half his age and character of which was recently accorded
to their tastes. The JERSEY COW KALE grows to from three to six feet
in height and yields a great body of green food for stock; have the rows about three feet apart,
and the plants two to three feet distant in the rows. In several instances my customers have
written me that this kale raised for stock feed has given them great satisfaction.

The THOUSAND-HEADED KALE is a tall variety sending out numerous side shoots, whence the name.

       *       *       *       *       *

SQUASHES:

HOW TO GROW THEM.

PRICE, 30 CENTS, BY MAIL.

This treatise is amply illustrated, and gives full particulars on every point, including keeping
and marketing the crop.

       *       *       *       *       *

FERTILIZERS:

WHERE THE MATERIALS COME FROM; HOW TO GET THEM IN THE CHEAPEST FORM; HOW TO MAKE OUR OWN FERTILIZERS.

In this work there will be found many valuable tables, with many suggestions, and much information
on the purchase of materials, the combining of them, and the use of the fertilizers made from
them. I believe it will give a good return to any of my customers, for his outlay. The treatise
makes a book of 116 pages.

PRICE, BY MAIL, 40 CENTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ONION RAISING:

  WHAT KINDS TO RAISE
  AND
  THE WAY TO RAISE THEM. Tratábanle with disdain, made him a thousand taunts and
even insults directed at her, that he was suffering with resignation
evangelical.

This is why he called plaque.

At that time the envy of the other
novices had reached its height. It gives the minutest details, from selecting the ground and
preparing the soil, up to gathering and marketing the crop. Illustrated with thirteen engravings
of Onions, Sowing Machines, and Weeding Machines.

~PRICE, BY MAIL, 30 CENTS.~

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW TREATISE.

CARROTS, MANGOLD WURTZELS

AND

SUGAR BEETS.

WHAT KIND TO RAISE:

How to Grow Them

AND

How to Feed Them.

This treatise presents, in minutest detail, every step of progress, from planting the seed
to the matured crop.

BY

  JAMES J. H. GREGORY,
  MARBLEHEAD, MASS.

PRICE, BY MAIL, 30 CENTS.

