We were now afoot. The dreaded tsetse fly abounded here, and we had sent our horses in via
Fort Hall. F. had accompanied them, and hoped to rejoin us in a few days or weeks with tougher
and less valuable mules. Pending his return we moved on leisurely, camping long at one spot,
marching short days, searching the country far and near for the special trophies of which we
stood in need.

It was great fun. Generally we hunted each in his own direction and according to his own ideas.
The jungle along the river, while not the most prolific in trophies, was by all odds the most
interesting. It was very dense, very hot, and very shady. Often a thorn thicket would fling
itself from the hills right across to the water's edge, absolutely and hopelessly impenetrable
save by way of the rhinoceros tracks. Along these then we would slip, bent double, very quietly
and gingerly, keeping a sharp lookout for the rightful owners of the trail. Again we would
wander among lofty trees through the tops of which the sun flickered on festooned serpent-like
vines. Every once in a while we managed a glimpse of the sullen oily river through the dense
leaf screen on its banks. The water looked thick as syrup, of a deadly menacing green. Sometimes
we saw a loathsome crocodile lying with his nose just out of water, or heard the snorting blow
of a hippopotamus coming up for air. Then the thicket forced us inland again. We stepped very
slowly, very alertly, our ears cocked for the faintest sound, our eyes roving. Generally, of
course, the creatures of the jungle saw us first. We became aware of them by a crash or a rustling
or a scamper. Then we stood stock listening with all our ears for some sound distinguishing
to the species. Thus I came to recognize the queer barking note of the bushbuck, for example,
and to realize how profane and vulgar that and the beautiful creature, the impalla, can be
when he forgets himself. As for the rhinoceros, he does not care how much noise he makes, nor
how badly he scares you.

Personally, I liked very well to circle out in the more open country until about three o'clock,
then to enter the river jungle and work my way slowly back toward camp. At that time of day
the shadows were lengthening, the birds and animals were beginning to stir about. In the cooling
nether world of shadow we slipped silently from thicket to thicket, from tree to tree; and
the jungle people fled from us, or withdrew, or gazed curiously, or cursed us as their dispositions
varied.

While thus returning one evening I saw my first colobus. He was swinging rapidly from one tree
to another, his long black and white fur shining against the sun. I wanted him very much, and
promptly let drive at him with the 405 Winchester. I always carried this heavier weapon in
the dense jungle. Of course I missed him, but the roar of the shot so surprised him that he
came to a stand. Memba Sasa passed me the Springfield, and I managed to get him in the head.
At the shot another flashed into view, high up in the top of a tree. Again I aimed and fired.
The beast let go and fell like a plummet. "Good shot," said I to myself. Fifty feet down the
colobus seized a limb and went skipping away through the branches as lively as ever. In a moment
he stopped to look back, and by good luck I landed him through the body. When we retrieved
him we found that the first shot had not hit him at all!

At the time I thought he must have been frightened into falling; but many subsequent experiences
showed me that this sheer let-go-all-holds drop is characteristic of the colobus and his mode
of progression. He rarely, as far as my observation goes, leaps out and across as do the ordinary
monkeys, but prefers to progress by a series of slanting ascents followed by breath-taking
straight drops to lower levels. When closely pressed from beneath, he will go as high as he
can, and will then conceal himself in the thick leaves.

B. and I procured our desired number of colobus by taking advantage of this habit-as soon as
we had learned it. Shooting the beasts with our rifles we soon found to be not only very difficult,
but also destructive of the skins. On the other hand, a man could not, save by sheer good fortune,
rely on stalking near enough to use a shotgun. Therefore we evolved a method productive of
the maximum noise, row, barked shins, thorn wounds, tumbles, bruises-and colobus! It was very
simple. We took about twenty boys into the jungle with us, and as soon as we caught sight of
a colobus we chased him madly. That was all there was to it.

And yet this method, simple apparently to the point of imbecility, had considerable logic back
of it after all; for after a time somebody managed to get underneath that colobus when he was
at the top of a tree. Then the beast would hide.

Consider then a tumbling riotous mob careering through the jungle as fast as the jungle would
let it, slipping, stumbling, falling flat, getting tangled hopelessly, disentangling with profane
remarks, falling behind and catching up again, everybody yelling and shrieking. Ahead of us
we caught glimpses of the sleek bounding black and white creature, running up the long slanting
limbs, and dropping like a plummet into the lower branches of the next tree. We white men never
could keep up with the best of our men at this sort of work, although in the open country I
could hold them well enough. We could see them dashing through the thick cover at a great rate
of speed far ahead of us. After an interval came a great shout in chorus. By this we knew that
the quarry had been definitely brought to a stand. Arriving at the spot we craned our heads
backward, and proceeded to get a crick in the neck trying to make out invisible colobus in
the very tops of the trees above us. For gaudily marked beasts the colobus were extraordinarily
difficult to see. This was in no sense owing to any far-fetched application of protective colouration;
but to the remarkable skill the animals possessed in concealing themselves behind apparently
the scantiest and most inadequate cover. Fortunately for us our boys' ability to see them was
equally remarkable. Indeed, the most difficult part of their task was to point the game out
to us. We squinted, and changed position, and tried hard to follow directions eagerly proffered
by a dozen of the men. Finally one of us would, by the aid of six power-glasses, make out,
or guess at a small tuft of white or black hair showing beyond the concealment of a bunch of
leaves. We would unlimber the shotgun and send a charge of BB into that bunch. Then down would
plump the game, to the huge and vociferous delight of all the boys. Or, as occasionally happened,
the shot was followed merely by a shower of leaves and a chorus of expostulations indicating
that we had mistaken the place, and had fired into empty air.

