St. Margaret's, Westminster*

SERMONS ON SUBJECTS SUGGESTED BY THE WAR

THIRD SERIES

*THE RELIGIOUS SPIRIT OF THE SLAVS*

THREE LECTURES GIVEN IN LENT, 1916

BY

The Rev. FATHER NICOLAI VELIMIROVIC

Priest of the Serbian Church, and Professor of Theology in the University of Belgrade

I. SLAV ORTHODOXY II. SLAV REVOLUTIONARY CATHOLICISM III. THE RELIGIOUS SPIRIT OF THE SLAVS

1916

I

SLAV ORTHODOXY

The Holy Synod and Tolstoi.

When Count Tolstoi was excommunicated by the Holy Synod of Russia because "he preached the
teachings which are contrary to the Christian faith," the world was divided in opinion and
sympathy into two parts. The partisans of Tolstoi were in the majority in the Western world;
those of the Holy Synod in Russia and the Orthodox East. Yet Holy Russia rejected Tolstoi with
much more compassion than Western Europe approved of him. It was a human tragedy which is not
often repeated in history and was understood only by Russia. The conflict was more stern than
appeared on the surface. The problems in question meant not less than the dilemma: either the
Christian world was to continue or it must return to the starting point of human history and
begin all anew. A little blade of grass in the field said to its green neighbours: "Why do
we grow up? It is nonsense and pain. In growing up we grow in complications, which enhance
the darkness and pain of our lives. I propose, therefore, to go back into seeds, from which
we have grown big and unhappy."

So spoke one blade of grass to the field. And the field replied: "Although perhaps we are growing
in nonsense and pain, still we cannot return, we must grow and go our way in the belief that
we are not mistaken."

That is the simile of Tolstoi and the Holy Synod.

A Circle or a Drama.

Tolstoi perceived life as a circle, with the beginning everywhere and with the end everywhere.
The Holy Synod, representing Slav Orthodoxy, perceived life as a drama with a beginning and
an end in space and time. From his point of view, Tolstoi thought it possible for mankind to
stop a mistaken course of things and to begin anew, to cast away all the burdens of culture,
of State, Church, militarism, worldly ambitions, the vanities of towns, to draw the curtain
on the past and to come back to the field and forest, to plough and sow, to listen to the life
of Nature and to live with Nature and God in unison.

The Holy Synod, from their point of view, thought that the past is the very foundation of the
present and future, and that in separating us from the past we were as an uprooted plant, condemned
to inevitable death, while in continuing the world-drama we are going the only possible way.
The beginning of sin in this drama is in Adam, the beginning of salvation is in Christ. We
cannot live without taking notice even of the life of Adam and without connecting our life
with Christ's. And all the other millions of human beings between those two milestones, between
Adam and Christ, and Christ and us, are greater or smaller foundations, or conditions, or even
disturbances of our own life.

"My understanding is against your traditions," said Tolstoi.

"Our traditions are against your understandings," replied the Holy Synod.

But that was not all.

The difference existed also in views on

HAPPINESS AND ATONEMENT.

