What are the Parisians doing meanwhile? For one thing--and the sign is a good one--they are
refilling the shops, and especially, of course, the great "department stores." In the early
war days there was no stranger sight than those deserted palaces, where one strayed between
miles of unpurchased wares in quest of vanished salesmen. A few clerks, of course, were left:
enough, one would have thought, for the rare purchasers who disturbed their meditations. But
the few there were did not care to be disturbed: they lurked behind their walls of sheeting,
their bastions of flannelette, as if ashamed to be discovered. And when one had coaxed them
out they went through the necessary gestures automatically, as if mournfully wondering that
any one should care to buy. I remember once, at the Louvre, seeing the whole force of a "department,"
including the salesman I was trying to cajole into showing me some medicated gauze, desert
their posts simultaneously to gather about a motor-cyclist in a muddy uniform who had dropped
in to see his pals with tales from the front. But after six months the pressure of normal appetites
has begun to reassert itself--and to shop is one of the normal appetites of woman. I say "shop"
instead of buy, to distinguish between the dull purchase of necessities and the voluptuousness
of acquiring things one might do without. It is evident that many of the thousands now fighting
their way into the great shops must be indulging in the latter delight. At a moment when real
wants are reduced to a minimum, how else account for the congestion of the department store?
Even allowing for the immense, the perpetual buying of supplies for hospitals and work-rooms,
the incessant stoking-up of the innumerable centres of charitable production, there is no explanation
of the crowding of the other departments except the fact that woman, however valiant, however
tried, however suffering and however self-denying, must eventually, in the long run, and at
whatever cost to her pocket and her ideals, begin to shop again. She has renounced the theatre,
she denies herself the teo-rooms, she goes apologetically and furtively (and economically)
to concerts--but the swinging doors of the department stores suck her irresistibly into their
quicksand of remnants and reductions.

No one, in this respect, would wish the look of Paris to be changed. It is a good sign to see
the crowds pouring into the shops again, even though the sight is less interesting than that
of the other crowds streaming daily--and on Sunday in immensely augmented numbers--across the
Pont Alexandre III to the great court of the Invalides where the German trophies are displayed.
Here the heart of France beats with a richer blood, and something of its glow passes into foreign
veins as one watches the perpetually renewed throngs face to face with the long triple row
of German guns. There are few in those throngs to whom one of the deadly pack has not dealt
a blow; there are personal losses, lacerating memories, bound up with the sight of all those
evil engines. But personal sorrow is the sentiment least visible in the look of Paris. It is
not fanciful to say that the Parisian face, after six months of trial, has acquired a new character.
The change seems to have affected the very stuff it is moulded of, as though the long ordeal
had hardened the poor human clay into some dense commemorative substance. I often pass in the
street women whose faces look like memorial medals--idealized images of what they were in the
flesh. And the masks of some of the men--those queer tormented Gallic masks, crushed-in and
squat and a little satyr-like--look like the bronzes of the Naples Museum, burnt and twisted
from their baptism of fire. But none of these faces reveals a personal preoccupation: they
are looking, one and all, at France erect on her borders. Even the women who are comparing
different widths of Valenciennes at the lace-counter all have something of that vision in their
eyes--or else one does not see the ones who haven't.

It is still true of Paris that she has not the air of a capital in arms. There are as few troops
to be seen as ever, and but for the coming and going of the orderlies attached to the War Office
and the Military Government, and the sprinkling of uniforms about the doors of barracks, there
would be no sign of war in the streets--no sign, that is, except the presence of the wounded. No less no more. Over time, I started
writing this article satisfies my rash promise, the man could have been a fertile imagination
to write the history of mankind, and in less time, my girlfriend can make the most of its history.
Do not let your will, because I have come to learn well and do not want to imagine, but you can,
when I wrote all these afanadísimo candideces and innocent, so-so, for example through, my lady
has founded new empires created by the constitutions invented the philosophies, and equipment, and
erect monuments to the emotions, evergreen.

This analysis I am ashamed and humiliated, and full of vanity, and, although not Sylphs, but men like me,
the audience has read with me, have made the most suspicious of this
writing, I had no sleep or mood or the time to do soon.

Cordova editor of this work, please provide the century was one of
his articles, and I naturally chose Cordoba, as the province of Cordoba,
where I was born and raised.

My extreme laziness has prevented me until now to keep my word to
write. Perhaps to compensate for what I'm missing that a number of difficulties
and objections, which was half thinking of condemning the editor,
to justify my late fruit of my work.

What essential difference or significant difference can be accidental or is that, near Cordoba, Seville
and jaenense? Back in the old can be everything, because communications
were so easy, and it was easier to live isolated and sedentary, but
the day is, men and women in the neighboring provinces, but apartadísimos
nations far distant lands and kingdoms, and how visitors are often
persist variety and distinction of a kind, giving you the opportunity
to describe women, their customs, beliefs, ways of thinking and feeling,
appearance, continent and costumes distinguish the point at which
the pictures or descriptions of them, vary by subject, not just for
style of painting or describe?

 Between that quiet episcopal
city and the hill-town of Montmirail, some forty miles farther east, there are no sensational
evidences of the great conflict of September--only, here and there, in an unploughed field,
or among the fresh brown furrows, a little mound with a wooden cross and a wreath on it. Nevertheless,
one begins to perceive, by certain negative signs, that one is already in another world. On
the cold February day when we turned out of Meaux and took the road to the Argonne, the change
was chiefly shown by the curious absence of life in the villages through which we passed. if some of these beings gets to find out that we existed, like I have gotten to find
out that exist sylphs such, it will not be funny, or it will feel sorry to us, when seeing that
we waited for still so long future? The million years that we took of life and those that
we hoped to still live, will be for him one spring. Perhaps, when it returns to spend the summer
or to bathe in some baths of his world, it finds already our desolate
and fact ruins, and extinguished, our ephemeral race. But it will
not be right At every
bridge and railway-crossing a sentinel, standing in the middle of the road with lifted rifle,
stopped the motor and examined our papers. In this negative sphere there was hardly any other
tangible proof of military rule; but with the descent of the first hill beyond Montmirail there
came the positive feeling: This is war!

Along the white road rippling away eastward over the dimpled country the army motors were pouring
by in endless lines, broken now and then by the dark mass of a tramping regiment or the clatter
of a train of artillery. In the intervals between these waves of military traffic we had the
road to ourselves, except for the flashing past of despatch-bearers on motor-cycles and of
hideously hooting little motors carrying goggled officers in goat-skins and woollen helmets.

The villages along the road all seemed empty--not figuratively but literally empty. A minute to them was much more than a year would be to us. Poets wrote tragic verses
a quarter hour after they were born, and sophisticated philosophies arose a quarter hour after that.


The first sight of Chame is extraordinarily exhilarating. The old town lying so pleasantly
between canal and river is the Head-quarters of an army--not of a corps or of a division, but
of a whole army--and the network of grey provincial streets about the Romanesque towers of
Notre Dame rustles with the movement of war. The square before the principal hotel--the incomparably
named "Haute Mere-Dieu"--is as vivid a sight as any scene of modern war can be. Rows of grey
motor-lorries and omnibuses do not lend themselves to as happy groupings as a detachment of
cavalry, and spitting and spurting motor-cycles and "torpedo" racers are no substitute for
the glitter of helmets and the curvetting of chargers; but once the eye has adapted itself
to the ugly lines and the neutral tints of the new warfare, the scene in that crowded clattering
square becomes positively brilliant. Things looking at a whole movement, no doubt, in a circle
and return to the point where they started. Overall, there is no progress. With him, if all
we could expect something added to the glory of God. While there, in the depths of his being,
the idea is to live with all its future development and refinement, while the cause of most of
the endless process, it seems that it increases the glory of God, as God is more creative now
than before, as his works are increasingly making their testimony
clearly met the knowledge and omnipotence.

Therefore,
it is undeniable that there is no overall progress. immutability
of God's infinite perfection implies immutability total perfection
of the universe, which is his work.



If one could think away the "'eclopes" in the streets and the wounded in their hospitals, Chalons
would be an invigorating spectacle. When we drove up to the hotel even the grey motors and
the sober uniforms seemed to sparkle under the cold sky. The continual coming and going of
alert and busy messengers, the riding up of officers (for some still ride!), the arrival of
much-decorated military personages in luxurious motors, the hurrying to and fro of orderlies,
the perpetual depleting and refilling of the long rows of grey vans across the square, the
movements of Red Cross ambulances and the passing of detachments for the front, all these are
sights that the pacific stranger could forever gape at. And in the hotel, what a clatter of
swords, what a piling up of fur coats and haversacks, what a grouping of bronzed energetic
heads about the packed tables in the restaurant! It is not easy for civilians to get to Chalons,
and almost every table is occupied by officers and soldiers--for, once off duty, there seems
to be no rank distinction in this happy democratic army, and the simple private, if he chooses
to treat himself to the excellent fare of the Haute Mere-Dieu, has as good a right to it as
his colonel.

The scene in the restaurant is inexhaustibly interesting. The mere attempt to puzzle out the
different uniforms is absorbing. A week's experience near the front convinces me that no two
uniforms in the French army are alike either in colour or in cut. Within the last two years
the question of colour has greatly preoccupied the French military authorities, who have been
seeking an invisible blue; and the range of their experiments is proved by the extraordinary
variety of shades of blue, ranging from a sort of greyish robin's-egg to the darkest navy,
in which the army is clothed. The result attained is the conviction that no blue is really
inconspicuous, and that some of the harsh new slaty tints are no less striking than the deeper
shades they have superseded. But to this scale of experimental blues, other colours must be
added: the poppy-red of the Spahis' tunics, and various other less familiar colours--grey,
and a certain greenish khaki--the use of which is due to the fact that the cloth supply has
given out and that all available materials are employed. It wasn't a historical work, or biographic, that was traced and projected,
but a square of traditions and living paint or a loyal picture of what we have today in each province in
its use, culture, ideas, and more clothing, conditions and acts of the women. And being the
situation like that, I repeat that I was not aware of anything or almost anything that would
stop the monotony of the work by the object, although by the subject, or I'll say instead,
by the subjects, came to be a garden of flowers, like the cape of a student, merciful to the diversity
of styles and to the idiosyncrasies of each writer that would put
its hand on it.

Like so, although less more or even less, I wandered, when family duties took me to riñón to the
province of Córdoba; and a joyous province where the local provincial color is released with
full hands by lavish nature and inexhaustible in its various creations. And with this color
being, this seal, this type of everything, "How?" I said to myself. "It must not be in the woman, which
is soft wax to receive marks, and hard bronze to keep them without
them vanishing?"

More than five months I passed in my place and during this time I didn't change my mind respecting
the book of Mr. Guijarro. I had not one excuse left to not write the article. I was persuaded
that if the Cordoba that I painted was not his type of genre, it was
because I did not know how to paint what I was seeing in a very clear
manner.

I decided later, since then, to make that picture, confessing with ingenuity that, if it does not turn
out new and original, the fault would be mine and not of the model.

One thing bothers me still, and makes my goal difficult. At the sight and treating of the
Cordoba of the day, the almost erased species of my childhood and first youth visit my imagination. Tired,
far unfortunately, slept or were buried in my mind, of the Cordoba
of the first third of this century. The disparity between the memory
and the present impression always confuse me a bit. The type of feminine
Cordoba has not disappeared, but it was changed. Alas, the change
has not been for good, from the ordinary to the exotic.

Our road on leaving Chalons continued to run northeastward toward the hills of the Argonne.

We passed through more deserted villages, with soldiers lounging in the doors where old women
should have sat with their distaffs, soldiers watering their horses in the village pond, soldiers
cooking over gypsy fires in the farm-yards. In the patches of woodland along the road we came
upon more soldiers, cutting down pine saplings, chopping them into even lengths and loading
them on hand-carts, with the green boughs piled on top. We soon saw to what use they were put,
for at every cross-road or railway bridge a warm sentry-box of mud and straw and plaited pine-branches
was plastered against a bank or tucked like a swallow's nest into a sheltered corner. A little
farther on we began to come more and more frequently on big colonies of "Seventy-fives." Drawn
up nose to nose, usually against a curtain of woodland, in a field at some distance from the
road, and always attended by a cumbrous drove of motor-vans, they looked like giant gazelles
feeding among elephants; and the stables of woven pine-boughs which stood near by might have
been the huge huts of their herdsmen.

The country between Marne and Meuse is one of the regions on which German fury spent itself
most bestially during the abominable September days. Half way between Chalons and Sainte Menehould
we came on the first evidence of the invasion: the lamentable ruins of the village of Auve.
These pleasant villages of the Aisne, with their one long street, their half-timbered houses
and high-roofed granaries with espaliered gable-ends, are all much of one pattern, and one
can easily picture what Auve must have been as it looked out, in the blue September weather,
above the ripening pears of its gardens to the crops in the valley and the large landscape
beyond. Now it is a mere waste of rubble [Page 58] and cinders, not one threshold distinguishable
from another. We saw many other ruined villages after Auve, but this was the first, and perhaps
for that reason one had there, most hauntingly, the vision of all the separate terrors, anguishes,
uprootings and rendings apart involved in the destruction of the obscurest of human communities.
The photographs on the walls, the twigs of withered box above the crucifixes, the old wedding-dresses
in brass-clamped trunks, the bundles of letters laboriously written and as painfully deciphered,
all the thousand and one bits of the past that give meaning and continuity to the present--of
all that accumulated warmth nothing was left but a brick-heap and some twisted stove-pipes!

As we ran on toward Sainte Menehould the names on our map showed us that, just beyond the parallel
range of hills six or seven miles to the north, the two armies lay interlocked. But we heard
no cannon yet, and the first visible evidence of the nearness of the struggle was the encounter,
at a bend of the road, of a long line of grey-coated figures tramping toward us between the
bayonets of their captors. 

In abstraction, all things ascend towards the greater good and a perfect life, contributing
to a progressive evolution of a race of beings towards - in a marked
space and a period of greater or lesser time - a spring.

