Jagrata, Svapna and Sushupti

While the philosophical concepts of ancient India, concerning religion and cosmogony, are to
some extent familiar and appreciated in these countries, its psychology, intimately related
with its religion and metaphysics, is comparatively unknown.  In Europe the greatest intellects
have been occupied by speculations upon the laws and aspects of physical nature, while the
more spiritual Hindus were absorbed in investigations as to the nature of life itself; by continual
aspiration, devotion, introspection and self-analysis, they had acquired vast knowledge of
the states of consciousness possible for man to enter upon;  they had laid bare the anatomy
of the mind, and described the many states that lay between the normal waking condition of
man, and the final state of spiritual freedom and unity with BRAHMA, which it was the aim alike
of religion and science to bring about.  Most interesting among their ideas, was their analysis
of the states of consciousness upon which we enter during sleep.  Roughly speaking, they may
be divided into two, which together with the waking state, make a trinity of states through
which every person passes, whether he be aware of it or not. These states are known as:---Jagrata,
waking;  Svapna, dreaming; and Sushupti, deep sleep.  The English equivalents of these words
give no idea of the states.  Passing our of Jagrata, the Indians held that, beyond the chaotic
borderland, we entered, in Svapna and Sushupti, upon real states of being.  Sushupti, the highest,
was accounted a spiritual state;  here the soul touches vaster centres in the great life and
has communion with celestial intelligences.  The unification of these states into one is one
of the results of Raj-Yoga;  in this state the chela keeps memory of what occurred while his
consciousness was in the planes of Svapna and Sushupti.  Entrance upon these states should
not I think be understood as meaning that the mind has deserted its fleshly tabernacle in search
of such experience.  Departure from the physical form is no more necessary for this than for
clairvoyence, but a transfer of the consciousness in us from one plane to another is necessary.

Now as we generate Karma in the dreaming and deep sleep states which may either help or hinder
the soul in its evolution, it is a matter of importance that we should take steps to promote
the unification of these states, so that the knowledge and wisdom of any one state may be used
to perfect the others.  Our thoughts and actions in the waking state react upon the dreaming
and deep sleep, and our experiences in the latter influence us in the waking state by suggestion
and other means.  The reason we do not remember what occurs in Svapna and Sushupti is because
the astral matter which normally surrounds the thinking principle is not subtle enough to register
in its fullness the experience of any one upon the more spiritual planes of consciousness.
To increase the responsiveness upon the more spiritual planes of consciousness.  To increase
the responsiveness of this subtle matter we have to practise concentration, and so heighten
the vibrations, or in other words to evolve or perfect the astral principle.  Modern science
is rapidly coming to the conclusion that the differences perceived in objects around us, are
not differences in substance, but differences of vibration in one substance.  Take a copper
wire;  pass electrical currents through it, gradually increasing their intensity, and phenomena
of sound, heat and light will be manifest, the prismatic colours appearing one after the other.
Similarly by an increased intensity in the performance of every action, the consciousness is
gradually transferred from the lower to the higher planes.  In order to give a point, or to
direct the evolving faculties into their proper channel, continual aspiration is necessary.
Take some idea--the spiritual unity of all things, for example--something which can only be
realized by our complete absorption in spiritual nature;  let every action be performed in
the light of this idea, let it be the subject of reverent thought.  If this is persisted in,
we will gradually begin to become conscious upon the higher planes, the force of concentration
carrying the mind beyond the waking into Svapna and Sushupti.  The period between retiring
to rest and awakening, formerly a blank, will begin to be spotted with bright lights of consciousness,
or, as we walk about during the day such knowledge will visit us.  "He who is perfected in
devotion findeth spiritual knowledge springing up spontaneously in himself" say Krishna. Patanjali
recommends dwelling on the knowledge that presents itself in dreams;  if we think over any
such experience, many things connected with it will be revealed, and so gradually the whole
shadowy region will become familiar and attractive, and we will gain a knowledge of our own
nature which will be invaluable and which cannot otherwise be acquired.

--January 15, 1893

Concentration

Beyond waking, dreaming and deep sleep is Turya.  Here there is a complete change of condition;
the knowledge formerly sought in the external world is now present within the consciousness;
the ideations of universal mind are manifest in spiritual intuitions. The entrance to this
state is through Jagrata, Svapna, and Sushupti, and here that spiritual unity is realized,
the longing for which draws the soul upwards through the shadowy worlds of dreaming and deep
sleep.  I have thought it necessary to supplement the brief statement made in the previous
number by some further remarks upon concentration, for the term applied without reference to
the Turya state is liable to be misunderstood and a false impression might arise that the spiritual
is something to be sought for outside ourselves.  The waking, dreaming and deep sleep states
correspond to objective worlds, while Turya is subjective, including in itself all ideals.
If this is so, we can never seek for the true beyond ourselves;  the things we suppose we shall
come sometime realize in spiritual consciousness must be present in it now, for to spirit all
things are eternally present.  Advance to this state is measured by the realization of moods:
we are on the path when there surges up in the innermost recesses of our being the cry of the
long imprisoned souls of men;  we are then on our way to unity.

The Bhagavad-Gita which is a treatise on Raj Yoga, gives prominence to three aspects of concentration.
Liberation is attained by means of action, by devotion, by spiritual discernment;  these aspects
correspond respectively to three qualities in man and nature, known as Tamas, Rajas and Satva.
The Tamas is the gross, material or dark quality;  Rajas is active and passional;  the attributes
of Satva are light, peace, happiness, wisdom.  No one while in the body can escape from the
action of the three qualities, for they are brought about by nature which is compounded of
them.  We have to recognize this, and to continue action, aspiration and thought, impersonally
or with some universal motive, in the manner nature accomplishes these things.  Not one of
these methods can be laid aside or ignored, for the Spirit moveth within all, these are its
works, and we have to learn to identify ourselves with the moving forces of nature.

Having always this idea of brotherhood or unity in mind, by action-- which we may interpret
as service in some humanitarian movement-- we purify the Tamas.

By a pure motive, which is the Philosopher's Stone, a potent force in the alchemy of nature,
we change the gross into the subtle, we initiate that evolution which shall finally make the
vesture of the soul of the rare, long-sought-for, primordial substance. Devotion is the highest
possibility for the Rajas;  that quality which is ever attracted and seduced by the beautiful
mayas of fame, wealth and power, should be directed to that which it really seeks for, the
eternal universal life;  the channels through which it must flow outwards are the souls of
other men, it reaches the One Life through the many.  Spiritual discernment should be the aim
of the Satva, "there is not anything, whether animate or inanimate which is without me," says
Krishna, and we should seek for the traces of THAT in all things, looking upon it as the cause
of the alchemical changes in the Tamas, as that which widens the outflowing love of the Rajas.
By a continued persistence of this subtle analytic faculty, we begin gradually to perceive
that those things which we formerly thought were causes, are in reality not causes at all;
that there is but one cause for everything, "The Atma by which this universe is pervaded. 
By reason of its proximity alone the body, the organs, Manas and Buddhi apply themselves to
their proper objects as if applied (by some one else)."  (The Crest Jewel of Wisdom).  By uniting
these three moods, action, devotion and spiritual discernment, into one mood, and keeping it
continuously alight, we are accompanying the movements of spirit to some extent. This harmonious
action of all the qualities of our nature, for universal purposes without personal motive,
is in synchronous vibration with that higher state spoken of at the beginning of the paper;
therefore we are at one with it.  "When the wise man perceiveth that the only agents of action
are these qualities, and comprehends that which is superior to the qualities of goodness, action
and indifference--which are co-existent with the body, it is released from rebirth and death,
old age and pain, and drinketh of the water of immortality."

--February 15, 1893

Verse by AE in the "Irish Theosophist"

Contents:

1--"While the yellow constellations...." (untitled) 2--Om 3--Krishna 4--Pain 5--Three Councelors
6--Dusk 7--Dawn 8--Desire 9--Deep Sleep 10--Day 11--To A Poet 12--The Place of Rest 13--Comfort
14--H.P.B. (In Memoriam.) 15--By the Margin of the Great Deep 16--The Secret 17--Dust 18--Magic
19--Immortality 20--The Man to the Angel 21--The Robing of the King 22--Brotherhood 23--In
the Womb 24--In the Garden of God 25--The Breath of Light 26--The Free 27--The Magi 28--W.Q.J.
(?) 29--From the Book of the Eagle 30--The Protest of Love 31--The King Initiate 32--The Dream
of the Children 33--The Chiefs of the Air 34--The Palaces of the Sidhe 35--The Voice of the
Wise 36--A Dawn Song 37--The Fountain of Shadowy Beauty 38--A New Earth 39--Duality

While the yellow constellations shine with pale and tender glory, In the lilac-scented stillness,
let us listen to Earth's story. All the flow'rs like moths a-flutter glimmer rich with dusky
hues, Everywhere around us seem to fall from nowhere the sweet dews. Through the drowsy lull,
the murmur, stir of leaf and sleep hum We can feel a gay heart beating, hear a magic singing
come. Ah, I think that as we linger lighting at Earth's olden fire Fitful gleams in clay that
perish, little sparks that soon expire, So the mother brims her gladness from a life beyond
her own, From whose darkness as a fountain up the fiery days are thrown Starry worlds which
wheel in splendour, sunny systems, histories, Vast and nebulous traditions told in the eternities:
And our list'ning mother whispers through her children all the story: Come, the yellow constellations
shine with pale and tender glory!

--October 15, 1892

Om

Faint grew the yellow buds of light
        Far flickering beyond the snows,
As leaning o'er the shadowy white
        Morn glimmered like a pale primrose.

Within an Indian vale below
        A child said "Om" with tender heart,
Watching with loving eyes the glow
        In dayshine fade and night depart.

The word which Brahma at his dawn
        Outbreathes and endeth at his night;
Whose tide of sound so rolling on
        Gives birth to orbs of golden light;

And beauty, wisdom, love, and youth,
        By its enchantment, gathered grow
In age-long wandering to the truth,
        Through many a cycle's ebb and flow.

And here all lower life was stilled,
        The child was lifted to the Wise:
A strange delight his spirit filled,
        And Brahm looked from his shining eyes.

--December 15, 1892

Krishna

The East was crowned with snow-cold bloom
        And hung with veils of pearly fleece;
They died away into the gloom,
        Vistas of peace, and deeper peace.

And earth and air and wave and fire
        In awe and breathless silence stood,
For One who passed into their choir
        Linked them in mystic brotherhood.

Twilight of amethyst, amid
        The few strange stars that lit the heights,
Where was the secret spirit hid,
        Where was Thy place, O Light of Lights?

The flame of Beauty far in space--
        When rose the fire, in Thee? in Me?
Which bowed the elemental race
        To adoration silently.

--February 15, 1893

Pain

Men have made them gods of love, Sun gods, givers of the rain, Deities of hill and grove, I
have made a god of Pain.

Of my god I know this much, And in singing I repeat, Though there's anguish in his touch Yet
his soul within is sweet.

--March 15, 1893

Three Counselors

It was the fairy of the place
        Moving within a little light,
Who touched with dim and shadowy grace
        The conflict at its fever height.

It seemed to whisper "quietness,"
        Then quietly itself was gone;
Yet echoes of its mute caress
        Still rippled as the years flowed on.

It was the Warrior within
        Who called "Awake! prepare for fight,
"Yet lose not memory in the din;
        "Make of thy gentleness thy might.

"Make of thy silence words to shake
        "The long-enthroned kings of earth;
"Make of thy will the force to break
        "Their towers of wantonness and mirth."

It was the wise all-seeing soul
        Who counseled neither war nor peace
"Only be thou thyself that goal
        "In which the wars of time shall cease."

--April 15, 1893

Dusk

Dusk wraps the village in its dim caress;
Each chimney's vapour, like a thin grey rod,
Mounting aloft through miles of quietness,
        Pillars the skies of God.

Far up they break or seem to break their line,
Mingling their nebulous crests that bow and nod
Under the light of those fierce stars that shine
        Out of the house of God.

Only in clouds and dreams I felt those souls
In the abyss, each fire hid in its clod,
From which in clouds and dreams the spirit rolls
        Into the vast of God.

--May 15, 1893

Dawn

Still as the holy of holies breathes the vast,
Within its crystal depths the stars grow dim,
Fire on the altar of the hills at last
        Burns on the shadowy rim.

Moment that holds all moments, white upon
The verge it trembles;  then like mists of flowers
Break from the fairy fountain of the dawn
        The hues of many hours.

Thrown downward from that high companionship
Of dreaming inmost heart with inmost heart,
Into the common daily ways I slip
        My fire from theirs apart.

--June 15, 1893

Desire

With Thee a moment! then what dreams have play! Traditions of eternal toil arise, Search for
the high, austere and lonely way, Where Brahma treads through the eternities. Ah, in the soul
what memories arise!

And with what yearning inexpressible, Rising from long forgetfulness I turn To Thee, invisible,
unrumoured, still: White for Thy whiteness all desires burn! Ah, with what longing once again
I turn!

--August 15, 1893

Deep Sleep

Heart-hidden from the outer things I rose,
The spirit woke anew in nightly birth
Into the vastness where forever glows
        The star-soul of the earth.

There all alone in primal ecstasy,
Within her depths where revels never tire,
The olden Beauty shines;  each thought of me
        Is veined through with its fire.

And all my thoughts are throngs of living souls;
They breath in me, heart unto heart allied
With joy undimmed, though when the morning tolls
        The planets may divide.

--September 15, 1893

Day

In day from some titanic past it seems
As if a thread divine of memory runs;
Born ere the Mighty One began his dreams,
        Or yet were stars and suns.

But here an iron will has fixed the bars;
Forgetfulness falls on earth's myriad races,
No image of the proud and morning stars
        Looks at us from their faces.

Yet yearning still to reach to those dim heights,
Each dream remembered is a burning-glass,
Where through to darkness from the light of lights
        Its rays in splendour pass.

--September 15, 1893

To A Poet

        Oh, be not led away.
Lured by the colour of the sun-rich day.
        The gay romances of song
Unto the spirit-life doth not belong.
        Though far-between the hours
In which the Master of Angelic Powers
        Lightens the dusk within
The Holy of Holies;  be it thine to win
        Rare vistas of white light,
Half-parted lips, through which the Infinite
        Murmurs her ancient story;
Hearkening to whom the wandering planets hoary
        Waken primeval fires,
With deeper rapture in celestial choirs
        Breathe, and with fleeter motion
Wheel in their orbits through the surgeless ocean.
        So, hearken thou like these,
Intent on her, mounting by slow degrees,
        Until thy song's elation
Echoes her multitudinous meditation.

--November 15, 1893

The Place of Rest

--The soul is its own witness and its own refuge.

Unto the deep the deep heart goes.
        It lays its sadness nigh the breast:
Only the mighty mother knows
        The wounds that quiver unconfessed.

It seeks a deeper silence still;
        It folds itself around with peace,
Where thoughts alike of good or ill
        In quietness unfostered, cease.

It feels in the unwounding vast
        For comfort for its hopes and fears:
The mighty mother bows at last;
        She listens to her children's tears.

Where the last anguish deepens--there--
        The fire of beauty smites through pain,
A glory moves amid despair,
        The Mother takes her child again.

--December 15, 1893

Comfort

Dark head by the fireside brooding,
        Sad upon your ears
Whirlwinds of the earth intruding
        Sound in wrath and tears:

Tender-hearted, in your lonely
        Sorrow I would fain
Comfort you, and say that only
        Gods could feel such pain.

Only spirits know such longing
        For the far away;
And the fiery fancies thronging
        Rise not out of clay.

Keep the secret sense celestial
        Of the starry birth;
Though about you call the bestial
        Voices of the earth.

If a thousand ages since
        Hurled us from the throne:
Then a thousand ages wins
        Back again our own.

Sad one, dry away your tears:
        Sceptred you shall rise,
Equal mid the crystal spheres
        With seraphs kingly wise.

--February, 1894

H. P. B. (In Memoriam.)

Though swift the days flow from her day,
        No one has left her day unnamed:
We know what light broke from her ray
        On us, who in the truth proclaimed

Grew brother with the stars and powers
        That stretch away--away to light,
And fade within the primal hours,
        And in the wondrous First unite.

We lose with her the right to scorn
        The voices scornful of her truth:
With her a deeper love was born
        For those who filled her days with ruth.

To her they were not sordid things:
        In them sometimes--her wisdom said--
The Bird of Paradise had wings;
        It only dreams, it is not dead.

We cannot for forgetfulness
        Forego the reverence due to them,
Who wear at times they do not guess
        The sceptre and the diadem.

With wisdom of the olden time
        She made the hearts of dust to flame;
And fired us with the hope sublime
        Our ancient heritage to claim;

That turning from the visible,
        By vastness unappalled nor stayed,
Our wills might rule beside that Will
        By which the tribal stars are swayed;

And entering the heroic strife,
        Tread in the way their feet have trod
Who move within a vaster life,
        Sparks in the Fire--Gods amid God.

--August 15, 1894

By the Margin of the Great Deep

When the breath of twilight blows to flame the misty skies,
        All its vapourous sapphire, violet glow and silver gleam
With their magic flood me through the gateway of the eyes;
        I am one with the twilight's dream.

When the trees and skies and fields are one in dusky mood,
        Every heart of man is rapt within the mother's breast:
Full of peace and sleep and dreams in the vasty quietude,
        I am one with their hearts at rest.

From our immemorial joys of hearth and home and love,
        Strayed away along the margin of the unknown tide,
All its reach of soundless calm can thrill me far above
        Word or touch from the lips beside.

Aye, and deep, and deep, and deeper let me drink and draw
        From the olden Fountain more than light or peace or dream,
Such primeval being as o'erfills the heart with awe,
        Growing one with its silent stream.

--March 15, 1894

The Secret

One thing in all things have I seen:
        One thought has haunted earth and air;
Clangour and silence both have been
        Its palace chambers.  Everywhere

I saw the mystic vision flow,
        And live in men, and woods, and streams,
Until I could no longer know
        The dream of life from my own dreams.

Sometimes it rose like fire in me,
        Within the depths of my own mind,
And spreading to infinity,
        It took the voices of the wind.

It scrawled the human mystery,
        Dim heraldry--on light and air;
Wavering along the starry sea,
        I saw the flying vision there.

Each fire that in God's temple lit
        Burns fierce before the inner shrine,
Dimmed as my fire grew near to it,
        And darkened at the light of mine.

At last, at last, the meaning caught:
        When spirit wears its diadem,
It shakes its wondrous plumes of thought,
        And trails the stars along with them.

--April 15, 1894

Dust

I heard them in their sadness say,
        "The earth rebukes the thought of God:
We are but embers wrapt in clay
        A little nobler than the sod."

But I have touched the lips of clay--
        Mother, thy rudest sod to me
Is thrilled with fire of hidden day,
        And haunted by all mystery.

--May 15, 1894

Magic --After reading the Upanishads

Out of the dusky chamber of the brain Flows the imperial will through dream on dream; The fires
of life around it tempt and gleam; The lights of earth behind it fade and wane.

Passed beyond beauty tempting dream on dream, The pure will seeks the hearthold of the light;
Sounds the deep "OM," the mystic word of might; Forth from the hearthold breaks the living stream.

Passed out beyond the deep heart music-filled, The kingly Will sits on the ancient throne,
Wielding the sceptre, fearless, free, alone, Knowing in Brahma all it dared and willed.

--June 15, 1894

Immortality

We must pass like smoke, or live within the spirits' fire;
        For we can no more than smoke unto the flame return.
If our thought has changed to dream, or will into desire,
        As smoke we vanish o'er the fires that burn.

Lights of infinite pity star the grey dusk of our days;
        Surely here is soul;  with it we have eternal breath;
In the fire of love we live or pass by many ways,
        By unnumbered ways of dream to death.

--July 15, 1894

The Man to the Angel

I have wept a million tears;
        Pure and proud one, where are thine?
What the gain of all your years
        That undimmed in beauty shine?

All your beauty cannot win
        Truth we learn in pain and sighs;
You can never enter in
        To the Circle of the Wise.

They are but the slaves of light
        Who have never known the gloom,
And between the dark and bright
        Willed in freedom their own doom.

Think not in your pureness there
        That our pain but follows sin;
There are fires for those who dare
        Seek the Throne of Might to win.

Pure one, from your pride refrain;
        Dark and lost amid the strife,
I am myriad years of pain
        Nearer to the fount of life.

When defiance fierce is thrown
        At the God to whom you bow,
Rest the lips of the Unknown
        Tenderest upon the brow.

--September 15, 1894

Songs of Olden Magic--II.

The Robing of the King --"His candle shined upon my head, and by his light I walked through
darkness."--Job, xxix. 3

On the bird of air blue-breasted
        glint the rays of gold,
And a shadowy fleece above us
        waves the forest old,
Far through rumorous leagues of midnight
        stirred by breezes warm.
See the old ascetic yonder,
        Ah, poor withered form!
Where he crouches wrinkled over
        by unnumbered years
Through the leaves the flakes of moonfire
        fall like phantom tears.
At the dawn a kingly hunter
        passed proud disdain,
Like a rainbow-torrent scattered
        flashed his royal train.
Now the lonely one unheeded
        seeks earth's caverns dim,
Never king or princes will robe them
        radiantly as him.
Mid the deep enfolding darkness,
        follow him, oh seer,
While the arrow will is piercing
        fiery sphere on sphere.
Through the blackness leaps and sparkles
        gold and amethyst,
Curling, jetting and dissolving
        in a rainbow mist.
In the jewel glow and lunar
        radiance rise there
One, a morning star in beauty,
        young, immortal, fair.
Sealed in heavy sleep, the spirit
        leaves its faded dress,
Unto fiery youth returning
        out of weariness.
Music as for one departing,
        joy as for a king,
Sound and swell, and hark! above him
        cymbals triumphing.
Fire an aureole encircling
        suns his brow with gold
Like to one who hails the morning
        on the mountains old.
Open mightier vistas changing
        human loves to scorns,
And the spears of glory pierce him
        like a Crown of Thorns.
As the sparry rays dilating
        o'er his forehead climb
Once again he knows the Dragon
        Wisdom of the prime.
High and yet more high to freedom
        as a bird he springs,
And the aureole outbreathing,
        gold and silver wings
Plume the brow and crown the seraph.
        Soon his journey done
He will pass our eyes that follow,
        sped beyond the sun.
None may know the darker radiance,
        King, will there be thine.
Rapt above the Light and hidden
        in the Dark Divine.

--September 15, 1895

Brotherhood

