There he sits, inside yonder great brick building, his chair tipped back against the wall,
reading the evening paper while the giant wheels of the dynamo purr softly and steadily. He
lowers his paper--looks at the clock--then out into the early twilight .... then slowly turns
to the wall, pushes a bit of a button, takes up his paper again, and goes on with his reading--while
a thousand lights burn white through the city! ....

Ah, Jimmy, Jimmy! the world is all awry, man! Your son's son lights his thousand lamps in a
flash that's no more than the puff of wind that used to blow your match out when you stood
on your ladder and lighted one!

Flies

Come to think of it, the Old Folks never made such a fuss about flies as we make nowadays.
You cannot pick up a magazine without running plump into an article on the deadly housefly--with
pictures of him magnified until he looks like the old million-toed, barrel-eyed, spike-tailed
dragon of your boyhood mince-pie dreams. The first two pages convince you that the human race
is doomed to extermination within eighteen months by the housefly route!

Grandmother never resorted to very drastic measures. The most violent thing she ever did was
to get little Annie, Bridget-the-housewoman's Annie, to help her chase them out. They went
from room to room periodically (when flies became too numerous), each armed with an old sawed-off
broom-handle on which were tacked long cloth streamers--a sort of cat-o'-nine-tails effect,
only with about a score or more of tails. After herding the blue-bottles and all their kith
and kin into a fairly compact bunch at the door, little Annie opened the screen and grandmother
drove them out--and that's all there was to it.

Another favorite device (particularly in the dining-room and kitchen), was the "fly-gallery"--a
wonderful array of multicolored tissue-paper festooned artistically from the ceiling or around
the gas-pipes to lure or induce the fly into moments of inactivity. There was no extermination
in this device--it was purely preventive in its function--the idea being that since there must
be fly-specks, better to mass them as much as possible on places where they would show the
least and could be removed the easiest when sufficiently accumulated.

But the greatest ounce-of-prevention was the screen hemisphere. Gee! I haven't thought of that
thing for years, have you? Of course you remember it--absolutely fly-proof--one clapped over
the butter, another over the crackerbowl, another over the sugar!

And say! I almost forgot! ... (Yes, I know you were just going to speak of it!) ... That conical
screen fly-trap where the flies see something good inside, crawl up to the top and then over
and in--and then can't get out--but just buzz and buzz and buzz--and make a lot of fuss about
it--bluebottles and all--no respecter of persons--and when it gets full of the quick and dead
in flydom, Bridget takes it out in the back yard and dumps it. Very simple ... clean, peaceful,
effective.

My, My! But it's a far cry back to those days, isn't it? And wouldn't you like right this minute
to sneak into the cool, curtain-down, ever-so-quiet dining-room again ... and nose around to
see if anything edible bad been overlooked--and see one of those dear old round fly-screens
guarding the sugar!

The Autumn Leaves

There were three recognized uses for leaves in the Autumn--first, to be banked by the wind
along fences or sidewalk edges and provide kicking-ground for exuberant youngsters returning
home from school; second, to be packed around the foundations of the house as a measure for
interior comfort in winter; and, third, to be pressed between the pages of the big Bible and
kept for ornamental purposes until they crumbled and had to be thrown away. This last-named
use was always questioned by every red-blooded boy, and more tolerated than accepted--a concession
to the women of earth, from little sister with her bright-hued wreath to mother and grandmother
with their book of pressed leaves.

Even for purposes of comfort their use was more or less secondary--granted because the banking-up
process was a man's job and an out-door enterprise. Then, too, it was a lot of fun to rake
the big yard and get the fallen leaves into one or two huge piles; and wheelbarrow them to
the edge of the house where old Spencer had driven the wooden pegs that held the boards ready
to receive the leaves. Load after load was dumped into the trough-like arrangement and stamped
down tight and hard by old Tom's huge feet and little Willie's eager but ineffective ones--and
then the top board was fastened down, and never a cold winter wind could find its way under
the floors with such a protective bulwark around the house.... And in the spring the boards
had to be taken down--and countless bleached bugs fairly oozed out into the spring sunlight--and
the snow-wet soggy leaves were raked out and burned, and the smoke was so thick and heavy that
it hardly got out of the yard.

But the real use of leaves--their only legitimate function in the Autumn, according to all
accepted boy-law--was for kicking purposes.

Plunging through banks of dry leaves along the edge of the sidewalk-knee-deep sometimes--scattering
them in all directions, even about our heads--there was such a racket that we could scarcely
hear each other's shouts of glee. And we'd run through them only to dive exhausted into some
huge pile of them, rolling and kicking and hollering until some kid came along and chucked
an armful, dirt and all, plumb into our face! This was the signal for a battle of leaves--and
perhaps there would have been fewer tardy-marks, teacher, if there had been fewer autumn leaves
along the route ... Perhaps!

There were influences that tempered the joys of leaf-kicking--some "meanie" was always ready
to hide a big rock, or other disagreeable foreign substance, under a particularly inviting
bunch of leaves--then watch and giggle at your discomfiture when you came innocently ploughing
along!

What a riot of wonderful color they made just after the first frosts had turned their green
to red and gold and brown! As a boy I disdained so weak a thing as noticing the coloring on
Big Hill--but now, in the long-after years, I realize that its vivid Autumn garment was indestructibly
fixed in my memory and has lived--saved for me until I could look back through Time's long
glass and understand and love that glorious picture. Not even the brush of a Barbizon master
could tell the story of Big Hill, three miles up the river from Main Street bridge, gleaming
in the hues that Jack Frost mixed, beneath the blue-gold dome of a cloudless sky--for it could
not paint the chatter of the squirrel, or the glint of the bursting bittersweet berry, or the
call of the crow, or the crisp of the air, or the joy of life that only boyhood knows!

Getting in the Wood

An autumnal event of importance, second only to the filling of the meat-house, was the purchase
and sawing of the wood.

Three sizes, remember--the 4-foot lengths for the long, low stove in the Big Room, 12-inch
"chunks" for the oval sheet-iron stove in the parlor, and the fine-split 18-inch lengths for
the kitchen. (Yes, they burned wood in the kitchen--not only wood, but oak and maple and hickory--the
kind you buy by the carat nowadays!)

And what a fire it made! Two sticks of the long wood in the stove in the Big Room, and the
damper open, and you'd have to raise the windows inside of fifteen minutes no matter how low
the thermometer registered outside. In the kitchen grandmother did all her cooking with a wood
fire--using the ashes for the lye barrel--and the feasts that came steaming from her famous
oven have never been equalled on any gas-range ever made. (Gas-range! how grandmother would
have sniffed in scorn at such a suggestion!) Even coal was only fit for the base burner in
the family sitting-room--and that must be anthracite, or "hard" coal, the kind that comes in
sacks nowadays at about the same price as butter and eggs. And even the wood had to be split
just so and be "clear" and right, or grandmother would scold grandfather for not wearing his
near-seeing specs when he bought it. "Guess they fooled you on that load, Mr. Van," she'd say.
"It isn't like the last we had."

Don't you remember how you were hanging around the kitchen one Saturday morning kind-a waiting
for something to come within reach, and grandfather's cane came tap-tapping down the long hall,
and he pushed open the kitchen door and stood there, just inside the door, until the kettle
started boiling over and making such a noise. And then he announced that he thought he better
go out and see if there was any wood in market. (As if there weren't fifty farmers lined up
there almost before daylight!) It was about nine o'clock and the sun had had a chance to warm
things up a bit--so grandmother wrapped him up in his knitted muffler and away he went beneath
his shiny silk hat. And because you stood around and looked wistfully up at him, he finally
turned back, just before he reached the big front door and said: "Want to go along, Billie?"
Of course you went, because there were all kinds of shops on the way up town to the wood market
and grandfather always had an extra nickle for such occasions.

Can't you just see that wood-market now, as it used to be in the Long Ago--with its big platform
scales--and its wagons of accurately-piled cord-wood marked on the end of some stick with the
white chalk-mark of the official "inspector" and measurer--and the farmers all bundled-up and
tied-around with various cold-dispelling devices and big mitts and fur caps? So far as you
could tell then (or now, either, I'll wager!) every load was exactly like every other load--but
not so to grandfather, for he would scrutinize them all, sound them with his stick, barter
and dicker and look out for knots--and then make the rounds again and do it all over before
finally making his selection--and I distinctly remember feeling that the wood left in market
after grandfather had made his selection wasn't worth hauling away!

Load after load was driven up to the high backyard fence and its sticks heaved into the yard
and piled in perfect order--and it made a goodly and formidable showing when Old Pete, the
wood-sawyer, finally arrived on the scene. The time of wood-buying was determined partly by
Pete's engagements--he went first to the Perkinses and next to the Williamses and so on in
rotation as he had done for years, his entire winter being "engaged" far ahead. It did not
seem possible, to boyish mind, that one man could ever get all that wood sawed and split, even
if he was a great giant Norseman with the finest buck-saw in the country.

But each year Old Pete's prowess seemed to increase--and day after day the ceaseless music
of his saw sounded across the crisp air--and the measured strokes of his axe struck a clarion
note--until finally the yard showed only chips and saw-dust where that vast wood-pile had been--and
the big barn was piled full to the rafters--the kitchen wood and chunks on one side, the big
wood on the other.

Then Pete would come in and announce that the job was done--and grandfather would bundle-up
and go out for a final inspection. Pete removed the pad from his leg (you remember the carpet
he wore on his left knee--the one that held the stick in place in the buck when he was sawing)
and together they went into the barn--and talked it all over--and Pete said it was harder wood
than last year's and more knots in it and ought to be worth two shillings more than contract
price--and grandfather finally allowed the excess--and Old Pete came in and got his money (in
gold and silver) and a bowl of coffee and some bread--and went his way to the Jonesses or some
other folks.

And you, young man--you surely hated to see that great Viking go--for he had told you many
a wonderful tale at the noon hour as he munched his thick sandwiches--and no one could look
at his massive head and huge shoulders and great beard and hair and doubt that his forebears
had done all that he credited to them.

Somehow, Old Pete seemed more real than most men you knew--except grandfather, of course. There
was something unexplainable in the man and his work that rang true--something that was so wholesome
and sound. He wasn't like old Hawkins, the grocer--he'd as lief give you a rotten apple as
not if he could smuggle it into the bag without you seeing him; and Kline the candy-man sometimes
sold you old hard stuff mixed with the fresh. But Old Pete here--he just worked honest and
steady--out in the open--at a fixed wage--and he did an honest job and was proud of it even
if it was only sawing wood. He worked faithfully until it was done, and then he got a good
word and a bowl of coffee and his wages in gold and silver--and went his way rejoicing, leaving
behind him the glory of labor well performed blending with the refreshing fragrance of new-cut
logs that sifted through the cracks of the old barn.

The Rain

It is early, and Saturday morning--very, very early.

Listen! ... An unmistakable drip, drip, drip ... and the room is dark.

A bound out of bed--a quick step to the window--an anxious peering through the wet panes ....
and the confirmation is complete.

It is raining--and on Saturday, the familiar leaden skies and steady drip that spell permanency
and send the robin to the shelter of some thick bush, and leave only an occasional undaunted
swallow cleaving the air on swift wing.

In all the world there is no sadness like that which in boyhood sends you back to bed on Saturday
morning with the mournful drip, drip, drip of a steady rain doling in your ears.

Out in the woodshed there is a can of the largest, fattest angle-worms ever dug from a rich
garden-plot--all so happily, so feverishly, so exultantly captured last night when Anticipation
strengthened the little muscles that wielded the heavy spade. All safe in their black soil
they wait, coiled round and round each other into a solid worm-ball in the bottom of the can.

A mile down the river the dam is calling--the tumbled waters are swirling and eddying and foaming
over the deep places where the black-bass wait--and old Shoemaker Schmidt, patriarch of the
river, is there this very minute, unwinding his pole, for well he knows that if one cares to
brave the weather he will catch the largest and finest and most bass when the rain is falling
on the river.

But small boys who have anxious mothers do not go fishing on rainy days--so there is no need
of haste, and one might as well go back to bed and sleep unconcernedly just as late as possible.
If only a fellow could get up between showers, or before the rain actually starts, so that
he could truthfully say: "But, mother, really and truly, it wasn't raining when we started!"
it would be all right, and the escape was warrantable, justified and safe; but with the rain
actually falling, there was nothing to do but go to sleep again and turn the worms back into
the garden if the rain didn't let up by noon.

      *      *      *      *      *

It is one of the miracles of life that Boyhood can turn grief into joy and become almost instantly
reconciled to the inevitable like a true philosopher, and change a sorrow into a blessing.
The companion miracle is that Manhood with its years of wisdom forgets how to do this.

And so, when the rainy day becomes hopelessly rainy, and Shoemaker Schmidt is left alone at
the dam, the rain that sounded so dismal at dawn proves to be a benefactor after all. There
will be no woodsplitting today, no outdoor chores--for if it's too wet to go fishing, as mother
insists, of course it's too wet to carry wood, or weed gardens or pick cucumbers for pickles.
The logic is so obvious and conclusive that even mother does not press the point when you remind
her of it--and you are free for a whole day in the attic.

Instantly the blessing is manifest--the sadness of that day-break drip, drip, drip is healed--the
whole character of the day is changed, and the rain-melody becomes not a funeral-march but a dance.

The attic is the place of all places you would most love to be on this particular calendar day!

How stupid to spoil a perfectly good Saturday by sitting on a hard beam, with wet spray blowing
in your face all the time, and getting all tired out holding a heavy fish-pole, when here is
the attic waiting for you with its mysterious dark corners, its scurrying mice that suddenly
develop into lions for your bow-and-arrow hunting, and its maneuvers on the broad field of
its floor with yourself as the drum-corps and your companions as the army equipped with wooden
swords and paper helmets!

      *      *      *      *      *

The day has been rich in adventure, and exploration, and the doing of great deeds.

And it has been all too short, for the attic is growing dim, and mother is again calling us--telling
us to send our little playmates home and come and get our bread and milk.

A last arrow is shot into the farthest comer where some undiscovered jungle beast may be prowling.

A last roll is given to the drum, and the army disbands.

A sudden fear seizes upon us as we realize that night has come and we are in the attic, alone.

And with no need of further urging we scamper unceremoniously down the stairs, slam the attic
door, hurry into the kitchen where Maggie has our table waiting ....

      *      *      *      *      *

Eight o'clock--and we're all tucked away among the feathers again!

Aren't we glad we didn't go down to the river--it would have been a cold, dismal day--and perhaps
they weren't biting today, anyway--and we should have gotten very wet.

It is still raining, raining hard--pattering unceasingly on the roof ... And the tin eave-troughs
are singing their gentle lullaby of running water trickling from the shingles ... a lullaby
so soothing that we do not hear mother softly open the door ... and come to our crib and place
the little bare arms under the covers and leave a kiss on the yellow curls and a benediction
in the room.

Grandmother

Do you remember the day she lost her glasses? My, such a commotion! Everybody turned in to
hunt for them. Grandmother tramped from one end of the house to the other--we all searched--upstairs
and down--with no success.

They weren't in the big Bible (we turned the leaves carefully many times--it was the most likely
place). They weren't in either of her sewing baskets, nor in the cook-book in the kitchen.
Grandfather said she could use one pair of his gold-bowed ones--but shucks! She couldn't see
with anything except those old steel-bowed specs! ...

And then, when she finally sat down and said for the fiftieth time: "I wonder where those specs
are!" ... and put the corner of her apron to her eyes--I happened to look up, and there they
were--on the top of her head! Been there all the time ... And she enjoyed the joke as much
as we did--a joke that went around the little town and followed her through all the years within
my memory of her.

Sometimes (as often as expedient), you asked her for a penny--never more, and then:

"Now, Willie, what do you want with a penny? I haven't got it. Run along now."

"Aw, Gran'ma, don't make a feller tell what he's goin' to buy. I know you got one--Look'n see!
Please, Gran'ma!"

