This ebook was transcribed by Les Bowler.

                       [Picture: George Stephenson]

                                  LIVES
                                  OF THE
                                ENGINEERS.

                             THE LOCOMOTIVE.

                      GEORGE AND ROBERT STEPHENSON.

                            BY SAMUEL SMILES,
                 AUTHOR OF ‘CHARACTER,’ ‘SELF-HELP,’ ETC.

    “Bid Harbours open, Public Ways extend;
    Bid Temples, worthier of God, ascend;
    Bid the broad Arch the dang’rous flood contain,
    The Mole projected break the roaring main,
    Back to his bounds their subject sea command,
    And roll obedient rivers through the land.
    These honours, Peace to happy Britain brings;
    These are imperial works, and worthy kings.”

                                                                     POPE.

                       A NEW AND REVISED EDITION.

                                * * * * *

                                 LONDON:
                      JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET
                                  1879.

                 The right of Translation is reserved.

INTRODUCTION.

Since the appearance of this book in its original form, some seventeen years since, the construction
of Railways has continued to make extraordinary progress.  Although Great Britain, first in
the field, had then, after about twenty-five years’ work, expended nearly 300 millions sterling
in the construction of 8300 miles of railway, it has, during the last seventeen years, expended
about 288 millions more in constructing 7780 additional miles.

But the construction of railways has proceeded with equal rapidity on the Continent.  France,
Germany, Spain, Sweden, Belgium, Switzerland, Holland, have largely added to their railway
mileage.  Austria is actively engaged in carrying new lines across the plains of Hungary, which
Turkey is preparing to meet by lines carried up the valley of the Lower Danube.  Russia is
also occupied with extensive schemes for connecting Petersburg and Moscow with her ports in
the Black Sea on the one hand, and with the frontier towns of her Asiatic empire on the other.

Italy is employing her new-born liberty in vigorously extending railways throughout her dominions.
A direct line of communication has already been opened between France and Italy, through the
Mont Cenis Tunnel; while another has been opened between Germany and Italy through the Brenner
Pass,—so that the entire journey may now be made by two different railway routes (excepting
only the short sea-passage across the English Channel) from London to Brindisi, situated in
the south-eastern extremity of the Italian peninsula.

During the last sixteen years, nearly the whole of the Indian railways have been made.  Some
of the greatest bridges erected in modern times—such as those over the Sone near Patna, and
over the Jumna at Allahabad—have been erected in connection with the Indian railways.  More
than 5000 miles are now at work, and they have been constructed at an expenditure of about
£88,000,000 of British capital, guaranteed by the British Government.  The Indian railways
connect the capitals of the three Presidencies—uniting Bombay with Madras on the south, and
with Calcutta on the north-east—while a great main line, 2200 miles in extent, passing through
the north-western provinces, and connecting Calcutta with Lucknow, Delhi, Lahore, Moultan,
and Kurrachee, unites the mouths of the Hooghly in the Bay of Bengal with those of the Indus
in the Arabian Sea.

When the first edition of this work appeared, in the beginning of 1857, the Canadian system
of railways was but in its infancy.  The Grand Trunk was only begun, and the Victoria Bridge—the
greatest of all railway structures—was not half erected.  The Colony of Canada has now more
than 3000 miles in active operation along the great valley of the St. Lawrence, connecting
Rivière du Loup at the mouth of that river, and the harbour of Portland in the State of Maine,
viâ Montreal and Toronto, with Sarnia on Lake Huron, and with Windsor, opposite Detroit in
the State of Michigan.  During the same time the Australian Colonies have been actively engaged
in providing themselves with railways, many of which are at work, and others are in course
of formation.  The Cape of Good Hope has several lines open, and others making.  France has
constructed about 400 miles in Algeria; while the Pasha of Egypt is the proprietor of 360 miles
in operation across the Egyptian desert.  The Japanese are also making railroads.

But in no country has railway construction been prosecuted with greater vigour than in the
United States.  There the railway furnishes not only the means of intercommunication between
already established settlements, as in the Old World; but it is regarded as the pioneer of
colonization, and as instrumental in opening up new and fertile territories of vast extent
in the west,—the food-grounds of future nations.  Hence railway construction in that country
was scarcely interrupted even by the great Civil War,—at the commencement of which Mr. Seward
publicly expressed the opinion that “physical bonds—such as highways, railroads, rivers, and
canals—are vastly more powerful for holding civil communities together than any mere covenants,
though written on parchment or engraved on iron.”

The people of the United States were the first to follow the example of England, after the
practicability of steam locomotion had been proved on the Stockton and Darlington, and Liverpool
and Manchester Railways.  The first sod of the Baltimore and Ohio Railway was cut on the 4th
of July, 1828, and the line was completed and opened for traffic in the following year, when
it was worked partly by horse-power, and partly by a locomotive built at Baltimore, which is
still preserved in the Company’s workshops.  In 1830, the Hudson and Mohawk Railway was begun,
while other lines were under construction in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and New Jersey; and
in the course of ten years, 1843 miles were finished and in operation.  In ten more years,
8827 miles were at work; at the end of 1864, 35,000 miles; and at the 31st of December, 1873,
not less than 70,651 miles were in operation, of which 3916 had been made during that year.
One of the most extensive trunk-lines is the Great Pacific Railroad, connecting the lines in
the valleys of the Mississippi and the Missouri with the city of San Francisco on the shores
of the Pacific, by means of which it is possible to make the journey from England to Hong Kong,
via New York, in little more than a month.

                                * * * * *

The results of the working of railways have been in many respects different from those anticipated
by their projectors.  One of the most unexpected has been the growth of an immense passenger-traffic.
The Stockton and Darlington line was projected as a coal line only, and the Liverpool and Manchester
as a merchandise line.  Passengers were not taken into account as a source of revenue, for
at the time of their projection, it was not believed that people would trust themselves to
be drawn upon a railway by an “explosive machine,” as the locomotive was described to be. 
Indeed, a writer of eminence declared that he would as soon think of being fired off on a ricochet
rocket, as travel on a railway at twice the speed of the old stagecoaches.  So great was the
alarm which existed as to the locomotive, that the Liverpool and Manchester Committee pledged
themselves in their second prospectus, issued in 1825, “not to require any clause empowering
its use;” and as late as 1829, the Newcastle and Carlisle Act was conceded on the express condition
that the line should not be worked by locomotives, but by horses only.

Nevertheless, the Liverpool and Manchester Company obtained powers to make and work their railway
without any such restriction; and when the line was made and opened, a locomotive passenger
train was advertised to be run upon it, by way of experiment.  Greatly to the surprise of the
directors, more passengers presented themselves as travellers by the train than could conveniently
be carried.

The first arrangements as to passenger-traffic were of a very primitive character, being mainly
copied from the old stage-coach system.  The passengers were “booked” at the railway office,
and their names were entered in a way-bill which was given to the guard when the train started.
Though the usual stage-coach bugleman could not conveniently accompany the passengers, the
trains were at first played out of the terminal stations by a lively tune performed by a trumpeter
at the end of the platform; and this continued to be done at the Manchester Station until a
comparatively recent date.

But the number of passengers carried by the Liverpool and Manchester line was so unexpectedly
great, that it was very soon found necessary to remodel the entire system.  Tickets were introduced,
by which a great saving of time was effected.  More roomy and commodious carriages were provided,
the original first-class compartments being seated for four passengers only.  Everything was
found to have been in the first instance made too light and too slight.  The prize ‘Rocket,’
which weighed only 4½ tons when loaded with its coke and water, was found quite unsuited for
drawing the increasingly heavy loads of passengers.  There was also this essential difference
between the old stage-coach and the new railway train, that, whereas the former was “full”
with six inside and ten outside, the latter must be able to accommodate whatever number of
passengers came to be carried.  Hence heavier and more powerful engines, and larger and more
substantial carriages were from time to time added to the carrying stock of the railway.

The speed of the trains was also increased.  The first locomotives used in hauling coal-trains
ran at from four to six miles an hour.  On the Stockton and Darlington line the speed was increased
to about ten miles an hour; and on the Liverpool and Manchester line the first passenger-trains
were run at the average speed of seventeen miles an hour, which at that time was considered
very fast.  But this was not enough.  When the London and Birmingham line was opened, the mail-trains
were run at twenty-three miles an hour; and gradually the speed went up, until now the fast
trains are run at from fifty to sixty miles an hour,—the pistons in the cylinders, at sixty
miles, travelling at the inconceivable rapidity of 800 feet per minute!

To bear the load of heavy engines run at high speeds, a much stronger and heavier road was
found necessary; and shortly after the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester line, it was
entirely relaid with stronger materials.  Now that express passenger-engines are from thirty
to thirty-five tons each, the weight of the rails has been increased from 35 lbs. to 75 lbs.
or 86 lbs. to the yard.  Stone blocks have given place to wooden sleepers; rails with loose
ends resting on the chairs, to rails with their ends firmly “fished” together; and in many
places, where the traffic is unusually heavy, iron rails have been replaced by those of steel.

And now see the enormous magnitude to which railway passenger-traffic has grown.  In the year
1873, 401,465,086 passengers were carried by day tickets in Great Britain alone.  But this
was not all.  For in that year 257,470 periodical tickets were issued by the different railways;
and assuming half of them to be annual, one-fourth half-yearly, and the remainder quarterly
tickets, and that their holders made only five journeys each way weekly, this would give an
additional number of 47,024,000 journeys, or a total of 448,489,086 passengers carried in Great
Britain in one year.

It is difficult to grasp the idea of the enormous number of persons represented by these figures.
The mind is merely bewildered by them, and can form no adequate notion of their magnitude.
To reckon them singly would occupy twenty-five years, counting at the rate of one a second
for twelve hours every day.  Or take another illustration.  Supposing every man, woman, and
child in Great Britain to make ten journeys by rail yearly, the number would greatly fall short
of the passengers carried in 1873.

Mr. Porter, in his ‘Progress of the Nation,’ estimated that thirty millions of passengers,
or about eighty-two thousand a day, travelled by coaches in Great Britain in 1834, an average
distance of twelve miles each, at an average cost of 5s. a passenger, or at the rate of 5d.
a mile; whereas above 448 millions are now carried by railway an average distance of 8½ miles
each, at an average cost of 1s. 1½d. per passenger, or about three halfpence per mile, in considerably
less than one-fourth of the time.

But besides the above number of passengers, over one hundred and sixty-two million tons of
minerals and merchandise were carried by railway in the United Kingdom in 1873, besides mails,
cattle, parcels, and other traffic.  The distance run by passenger and goods trains in the
year was 162,561,304 miles; to accomplish which it is estimated that four miles of railway
must have been covered by running trains during every second all the year round.

To perform this service, there were, in 1873, 11,255 locomotives at work in the United Kingdom,
consuming about four million tons of coal and coke, and flashing into the air every minute
some forty tons of water in the form of steam in a high state of elasticity.  There were also
24,644 passenger-carriages, 9128 vans and breaks attached to passenger-trains, and 329,163
trucks, waggons, and other vehicles appropriated to merchandise.  Buckled together, buffer
to buffer, the locomotives and tenders would extend from London to Peterborough; while the
carrying vehicles, joined together, would form two trains occupying a double line of railway
extending from London to beyond Inverness.

A notable feature in the growth of railway traffic of late years has been the increase in the
number of third-class passengers, compared with first and second class.  Sixteen years since,
the third-class passengers constituted only about one-third; ten years later, they were about
one-half; whereas now they form more than three-fourths of the whole number carried.  In 1873,
there were about 23 million first-class passengers, 62 million second-class, and not less than
306 million third-class.  Thus George Stephenson’s prediction, “that the time would come when
it would be cheaper for a working man to make a journey by railway than to walk on foot,” is
already verified.

The degree of safety with which this great traffic has been conducted is not the least remarkable
of its features.  Of course, so long as railways are worked by men they will be liable to the
imperfections belonging to all things human.  Though their machinery may be perfect and their
organisation as complete as skill and forethought can make it, workmen will at times be forgetful
and listless; and a moment’s carelessness may lead to the most disastrous results.  Yet, taking
all circumstances into account, the wonder is, that travelling by railway at high speed should
have been rendered comparatively so safe.

To be struck by lightning is one of the rarest of all causes of death; yet more persons are
killed by lightning in Great Britain than are killed on railways from causes beyond their own
control.  Most persons would consider the probability of their dying by hanging to be extremely
remote; yet, according to the Registrar-General’s returns, it is considerably greater than
that of being killed by railway accident.

The remarkable safety with which railway traffic is on the whole conducted, is due to constant
watchfulness and highly-applied skill.  The men who work the railways are for the most part
the picked men of the country, and every railway station may be regarded as a practical school
of industry, attention, and punctuality.

Few are aware of the complicated means and agencies that are in constant operation on railways
day and night, to ensure the safety of the passengers to their journey’s end.  The road is
under a system of continuous inspection.  The railway is watched by foremen, with “gangs” of
men under them, in lengths varying from twelve to five miles, according to circumstances. 
Their continuous duty is to see that the rails and chairs are sound, their fastenings complete,
and the line clear of all obstructions.

Then, at all the junctions, sidings, and crossings, pointsmen are stationed, with definite
instructions as to the duties to be performed by them.  At these places, signals are provided,
worked from the station platforms, or from special signal boxes, for the purpose of protecting
the stopping or passing trains.  When the first railways were opened, the signals were of a
very simple kind.  The station men gave them with their arms stretched out in different positions;
then flags of different colours were used; next fixed signals, with arms or discs of rectangular
or triangular shape.  These were followed by a complete system of semaphore signals, near and
distant, protecting all junctions, sidings, and crossings.

When Government inspectors were first appointed by the Board of Trade to examine and report
upon the working of railways, they were alarmed by the number of trains following each other
at some stations, in what then seemed to be a very rapid succession.  A passage from a Report
written in 1840 by Sir Frederick Smith, as to the traffic at “Taylor’s Junction,” on the York
and North Midland Railway, contrasts curiously with the railway life and activity of the present
day:—“Here,” wrote the alarmed Inspector, “the passenger trains from York as well as Leeds
and Selby, meet four times a day.  No less than 23 passenger-trains stop at or pass this station
in the 21 hours—an amount of traffic requiring not only the utmost perfect arrangements on
the part of the management, but the utmost vigilance and energy in the servants of the Company
employed at this place.”

Contrast this with the state of things now.  On the Metropolitan Line, 667 trains pass a given
point in one direction or the other during the eighteen hours of the working day, or an average
of 36 trains an hour. At the Cannon Street Station of the South-Eastern Railway, 627 trains
pass in and out daily, many of them crossing each other’s tracks under the protection of the
station-signals.  Forty-five trains run in and out between 9 and 10 A.M., and an equal number
between 4 and 5 P.M.  Again, at the Clapham Junction, near London, about 700 trains pass or
stop daily; and though to the casual observer the succession of trains coming and going, running
and stopping, coupling and shunting, appears a scene of inextricable confusion and danger,
the whole is clearly intelligible to the signalmen in their boxes, who work the trains in and
out with extraordinary precision and regularity.

The inside of a signal-box reminds one of a pianoforte on a large scale, the lever-handles
corresponding with the keys of the instrument; and, to an uninstructed person, to work the
one would be as difficult as to play a tune on the other.  The signal-box outside Cannon Street
Station contains 67 lever-handles, by means of which the signalmen are enabled at the same
moment to communicate with the drivers of all the engines on the line within an area of 800
yards.  They direct by signs, which are quite as intelligible as words, the drivers of the
trains starting from inside the station, as well as those of the trains arriving from outside.
By pulling a lever-handle, a distant signal, perhaps out of sight, is set some hundred yards
off, which the approaching driver—reading it quickly as he comes along—at once interprets,
and stops or advances as the signal may direct.

The precision and accuracy of the signal-machinery employed at important stations and junctions
have of late years been much improved by an ingenious contrivance, by means of which the setting
of the signal prepares the road for the coming train.  When the signal is set at “Danger,”
the points are at the same time worked, and the road is “locked” against it; and when at “Safety,”
the road is open,—the signal and the points exactly corresponding.

The Electric Telegraph has also been found a valuable auxiliary in ensuring the safe working
of large railway traffics.  Though the locomotive may run at 60 miles an hour, electricity,
when at its fastest, travels at the rate of 288,000 miles a second, and is therefore always
able to herald the coming train.  The electric telegraph may, indeed, be regarded as the nervous
system of the railway.  By its means the whole line is kept throbbing with intelligence.  The
method of working the electric signals varies on different lines; but the usual practice is,
to divide a line into so many lengths, each protected by its signal-stations,—the fundamental
law of telegraph-working being, that two engines are not to be allowed to run on the same line
between two signal-stations at the same time.

When a train passes one of such stations, it is immediately signalled on—usually by electric
signal-bells—to the station in advance, and that interval of railway is “blocked” until the
signal has been received from the station in advance that the train has passed it.  Thus an
interval of space is always secured between trains following each other, which are thereby
alike protected before and behind.  And thus, when a train starts on a journey, it may be of
hundreds of miles, it is signalled on from station to station—it “lives along the line,”—until
at length it reaches its destination and the last signal of “train in” is given.  By this means
an immense number of trains can be worked with regularity and safety.  On the South-Eastern
Railway, where the system has been brought to a state of high efficiency, it is no unusual
thing during Easter week to send 600,000 passengers through the London Bridge Station alone;
and on some days as many as 1200 trains a-day.

While such are the expedients adopted to ensure safety, others equally ingenious are adopted
to ensure speed.  In the case of express and mail trains, the frequent stopping of the engines
to take in a fresh supply of water occasions a considerable loss of time on a long journey,
each stoppage for this purpose occupying from ten to fifteen minutes.  To avoid such stoppages,
larger tenders have been provided, capable of carrying as much as 2000 gallons of water each.
But as a considerable time is occupied in filling these, a plan has been contrived by Mr. Ramsbottom,
the Locomotive Engineer of the London and North-Western Railway, by which the engines are made
to feed themselves while running at full speed!  The plan is as follows:—An open trough, about
440 feet long, is laid longitudinally between the rails.  Into this trough, which is filled
with water, a dip-pipe or scoop attached to the bottom of the tender of the running train is
lowered; and, at a speed of 50 miles an hour, as much as 1070 gallons of water are scooped
up in the course of a few minutes.  The first of such troughs was laid down between Chester
and Holyhead, to enable the Express Mail to run the distance of 841 miles in two hours and
five minutes without stopping; and similar troughs have since been laid down at Bushey near
London, at Castlethorpe near Wolverton, and at Parkside near Liverpool.  At these four troughs
about 130,000 gallons of water are scooped up daily.

Wherever railways have been made, new towns have sprung up, and old towns and cities been quickened
into new life.  When the first English lines were projected, great were the prophecies of disaster
to the inhabitants of the districts through which they were proposed to be forced.  Such fears
have long since been dispelled in this country.  The same prejudices existed in France.  When
the railway from Paris to Marseilles was laid out so as to pass through Lyons, a local prophet
predicted that if the line were made the city would be ruined—“Ville traversée, ville perdue;”
while a local priest denounced the locomotive and the electric telegraph as heralding the reign
of Antichrist.  But such nonsense is no longer uttered.  Now it is the city without the railway
that is regarded as the “city lost;” for it is in a measure shut out from the rest of the world,
and left outside the pale of civilisation.

Perhaps the most striking of all the illustrations that could be offered of the extent to which
railways facilitate the locomotion, the industry, and the subsistence of the population of
large towns and cities, is afforded by the working of the railway system in connection with
the capital of Great Britain.

The extension of railways to London has been of comparatively recent date; the whole of the
lines connecting it with the provinces and terminating at its outskirts, having been opened
during the last thirty years, while the lines inside London have for the most part been opened
within the last sixteen years.

The first London line was the Greenwich Railway, part of which was opened for traffic to Deptford
in February 1836.  The working of this railway was first exhibited as a show, and the usual
attractions were employed to make it “draw.”  A band of musicians in the garb of the Beef-eaters
was stationed at the London end, and another band at Deptford.  For cheapness’ sake the Deptford
band was shortly superseded by a large barrel-organ, which played in the passengers; but, when
the traffic became established, the barrel organ, as well as the beef-eater band at the London
end, were both discontinued.  The whole length of the line was lit up at night by a row of
lamps on either side like a street, as if to enable the locomotives or the passengers to see
their way in the dark; but these lamps also were eventually discontinued as unnecessary.

As a show, the Greenwich Railway proved tolerably successful.  During the first eleven months
it carried 456,750 passengers, or an average of about 1300 a-day.  But the railway having been
found more convenient to the public than either the river boats or the omnibuses, the number
of passengers rapidly increased.  When the Croydon, Brighton, and South-Eastern Railways began
to pour their streams of traffic over the Greenwich viaduct, its accommodation was found much
too limited; and it was widened from time to time, until now nine lines of railway are laid
side by side, over which more than twenty millions of passengers are carried yearly, or an
average of about 60,000 a day all the year round.

Since the partial opening of the Greenwich Railway in 1836, a large extent of railways has
been constructed in and about the metropolis, and convenient stations have been established
almost in the heart of the City.  Sixteen of these stations are within a circle of half a mile
radius from the Mansion House, and above three hundred stations are in actual use within about
five miles of Charing Cross.

To accommodate this vast traffic, not fewer than 3600 local trains are run in and out daily,
besides 340 trains which depart to and arrive from distant places, north, south, east, and
west.  In the morning hours, between 8.30 and 10.30, when business men are proceeding inwards
to their offices and counting-houses, and in the afternoon between four and six, when they
are returning outwards to their homes, as many as two thousand stoppages are made in the hour,
within the metropolitan district, for the purpose of taking up and setting down passengers,
while about two miles of railway are covered by the running trains.

One of the remarkable effects of railways has been to extend the residential area of all large
towns and cities.  This is especially notable in the case of London.  Before the introduction
of railways, the residential area of the metropolis was limited by the time occupied by business
men in making the journey outwards and inwards daily; and it was for the most part bounded
by Bow on the east, by Hampstead and Highgate on the north, by Paddington and Kensington on
the west, and by Clapham and Brixton on the south.  But now that stations have been established
near the centre of the city, and places so distant as Waltham, Barnet, Watford, Hanwell, Richmond,
Epsom, Croydon, Reigate, and Erith, can be more quickly reached by rail than the old suburban
quarters were by omnibus, the metropolis has become extended in all directions along its railway
lines, and the population of London, instead of living in the City or its immediate vicinity,
as formerly, have come to occupy a residential area of not less than six hundred square miles!

The number of new towns which have consequently sprung into existence near London within the
last twenty years has been very great; towns numbering from ten to twenty thousand inhabitants,
which before were but villages,—if, indeed, they existed.  This has especially been the case
along the lines south of the Thames, principally in consequence of the termini of those lines
being more conveniently situated for city men of business.  Hence the rapid growth of the suburban
towns up and down the river, from Richmond and Staines on the west, to Erith and Gravesend
on the east, and the hives of population which have settled on the high grounds south of the
Thames, in the neighbourhood of Norwood and the Crystal Palace, rapidly spreading over the
Surrey Downs, from Wimbledon to Guildford, and from Bromley to Croydon, Epsom, and Dorking.
And now that the towns on the south and south-east coast can be reached by city men in little
more time than it takes to travel to Clapham or Bayswater by omnibus, such places have become
as it were parts of the great metropolis, and Brighton and Hastings are but the marine suburbs
of London.

The improved state of the communications of the City with the country has had a marked effect
upon its population.  While the action of the railways has been to add largely to the number
of persons living in London, it has also been accompanied by their dispersion over a much larger
area.  Thus the population of the central parts of London is constantly decreasing, whereas
that of the suburban districts is as constantly increasing.  The population of the City fell
off more than 10,000 between 1851 and 1861; and during the same period, that of Holborn, the
Strand, St. Martin’s-in-the-Fields, St. James’s, Westminster, East and West London, showed
a considerable decrease.  But, as regards the whole mass of the metropolitan population, the
increase has been enormous.  Thus, starting from 1801, when the population of London was 958,863,
we find it increasing in each decennial period at the rate of between two and three hundred
thousand, until the year 1841, when it amounted to 1,948,369.  Railways had by that time reached
London, after which its population increased at nearly double the former ratio. In the ten
years ending 1851, the increase was 513,867; and in the ten years ending 1861, 441,753: until
now, to quote the words of the Registrar-General in a recent annual Report, “the population
within the registration limits is by estimate 2,993,513; but beyond this central mass there
is a ring of life growing rapidly, and extending along railway lines over a circle of fifteen
miles from Charing Cross.  The population within that circle, patrolled by the metropolitan
police, is about 3,463,771”!

The aggregation of so vast a number of persons within so comparatively limited an area—the
immense quantity of food required for their daily sustenance, as well as of fuel, clothing,
and other necessaries—would be attended with no small inconvenience and danger, but for the
facilities again provided by the railways.  The provisioning of a garrison of even four thousand
men is considered a formidable affair; how much more so the provisioning of nearly four millions
of people!

The whole mystery is explained by the admirable organisation of the railway service, and the
regularity and despatch with which it is conducted.  We are enabled by the courtesy of the
General Managers of the London railways to bring together the following brief summary of facts
relating to the food supply of London, which will probably be regarded by most readers as of
a very remarkable character.

Generally speaking, the railways to the south of the Thames contribute comparatively little
towards the feeding of London.  They are, for the most part passenger and residential lines,
traversing a limited and not very fertile district bounded by the sea-coast; and, excepting
in fruit and vegetables, milk and hops, they probably carry more food from London than they
bring to it.  The principal supplies of grain, flour, potatoes, and fish, are brought by railway
from the eastern counties of England and Scotland; and of cattle and sheep, beef and mutton,
from the grazing counties of the west and north-west of Britain, as far as the Highlands of
Scotland, which have, through the instrumentality of railways, become part of the great grazing
grounds of the metropolis.

Take first “the staff of life”—bread and its constituents.  Of wheat, not less than 222,080
quarters were brought into London by railway in 1867, besides what was brought by sea; of oats
151,757 quarters; of barley 70,282 quarters; of beans and peas 51,448 quarters.  Of the wheat
and barley, by far the largest proportion is brought by the Great Eastern Railway, which delivers
in London in one year 155,000 quarters of wheat and 45,500 quarters of barley, besides 600,429
quarters more in the form of malt.  The largest quantity of oats is brought by the Great Northern
Railway, principally from the north of England and the East of Scotland,—the quantity delivered
by that Company in 1867 having been 97,500 quarters, besides 24,664 quarters of wheat, 5560
quarters of barley, and 103,917 quarters of malt.  Again, of 1,250,566 sacks of flour and meal
delivered in London in one year, the Great Eastern brings 654,000 sacks, the Great Northern
232,022 sacks, and the Great Western 136,312 sacks; the principal contribution of the London
and North-Western Railway towards the London bread-stores being 100,760 boxes of American flour,
besides 24,300 sacks of English.  The total quantity of malt delivered at the London railway
stations in 1867 was thirteen hundred thousand sacks.

Next, as to flesh meat.  In 1867, not fewer than 172,300 head of cattle were brought to London
by railway,—though this was considerably less than the number carried before the cattle-plague,
the Great Eastern Railway alone having carried 44,672 less than in 1864.  But this loss has
since been more than made up by the increased quantities of fresh beef, mutton, and other kinds
of meat imported in lieu of the live animals.  The principal supplies of cattle are brought,
as we have said, by the Western, Northern, and Eastern lines: by the Great Western from the
western counties and Ireland; by the London and North-Western, the Midland, and the Great Northern
from the northern counties and from Scotland; and by the Great Eastern from the eastern counties
and from the ports of Harwich and Lowestoft.

In 1867, also, 1,147,609 sheep were brought to London by railway, of which the Great Eastern
delivered not less than 265,371 head.  The London and North-Western and Great Northern between
them brought 390,000 head from the northern English counties, with a large proportion from
the Scotch Highlands.  While the Great Western brought up 130,000 head from the Welsh mountains
and from the rich grazing districts of Wilts, Gloucester, Somerset, and Devon.  Another important
freight of the London and North-Western Railway consists of pigs, of which they delivered 54,700
in London, principally Irish; while the Great Eastern brought up 27,500 of the same animal,
partly foreign.

While the cattle-plague had the effect of greatly reducing the number of live stock brought
into London yearly, it gave a considerable impetus to the Fresh Meat traffic.  Thus, in addition
to the above large numbers of cattle and sheep delivered in London in 1867, the railways brought
76,175 tons of meat, which—taking the meat of an average beast at 800 lbs., and of an average
sheep at 64 lbs.—would be equivalent to about 112,000 more cattle, and 1,267,500 more sheep.
The Great Northern brought the largest quantity; next the London and North-Western;—these two
Companies having brought up between them, from distances as remote as Aberdeen and Inverness,
about 42,000 tons of fresh meat in 1867, at an average freight of about ½d. a lb.

Again as regards Fish, of which six-tenths of the whole quantity consumed in London is now
brought by rail.  The Great Eastern and the Great Northern are by far the largest importers
of this article, and justify their claim to be regarded as the great food lines of London.
Of the 61,358 tons of fish brought by railway in 1867, not less than 24,500 tons were delivered
by the former, and 22,000 tons, brought from much longer distances, by the latter Company.
The London and North-Western brought about 6000 tons, the principal part of which was salmon
from Scotland and Ireland.  The Great Western also brought about 4000 tons, partly salmon,
but the greater part mackerel from the south-west coast.  During the mackerel season, as much
as a hundred tons at a time are brought into the Paddington Station by express fish-train from
Cornwall.

The Great Eastern and Great Northern Companies are also the principal carriers of turkeys,
geese, fowls, and game; the quantity delivered in London by the former Company having been
5042 tons.  In Christmas week no fewer than 30,000 turkeys and geese were delivered at the
Bishopsgate Station, besides about 300 tons of poultry, 10,000 barrels of beer, and immense
quantities of fish, oysters, and other kinds of food.  As much as 1600 tons of poultry and
game were brought last year by the South-Western Railway; 600 tons by the Great Northern Railway;
and 130 tons of turkeys, geese, and fowls, by the London, Chatham and Dover line, principally
from France.

Of miscellaneous articles, the Great Northern and the Midland each brought about 3000 tons
of cheese, the South-Western 2600 tons, and the London and North-Western 10,034 cheeses in
number; while the South-Western and Brighton lines brought a splendid contribution to the London
breakfast-table in the shape of 11,259 tons of French eggs; these two Companies delivering
between them an average of more than three millions of eggs a week all the year round!  The
same Companies delivered in London 14,819 tons of butter, for the most part the produce of
the farms of Normandy,—the greater cleanness and neatness with which the Normandy butter is
prepared for market rendering it a favourite both with dealers and consumers of late years
compared with Irish butter.  The London, Chatham and Dover Company also brought from Calais
96 tons of eggs.

Next, as to the potatoes, vegetables, and fruit, brought by rail.  Forty years since, the inhabitants
of London relied for their supply of vegetables on the garden-grounds in the immediate neighbourhood
of the metropolis, and the consequence was that they were both very dear and limited in quantity.
But railways, while they have extended the grazing-grounds of London as far as the Highlands,
have at the same time extended the garden-grounds of London into all the adjoining counties—into
East Kent, Essex, Suffolk, and Norfolk, the vale of Gloucester, and even as far as Penzance
in Cornwall.  The London, Chatham and Dover, one of the youngest of our main lines, brought
up from East Kent in 1867 5279 tons of potatoes, 1046 tons of vegetables, and 5386 tons of
fruit, besides 542 tons of vegetables from France.  The South-Eastern brought 25,163 tons of
the same produce.  The Great Eastern brought from the eastern counties 21,315 tons of potatoes,
and 3596 tons of vegetables and fruit; while the Great Northern brought no less than 78,505
tons of potatoes—a large part of them from the east of Scotland—and 3768 tons of vegetables
and fruit.  About 6000 tons of early potatoes were brought from Cornwall, with about 5000 tons
of broccoli, and the quantities are steadily increasing.  “Truly London hath a large belly,”
said old Fuller, two hundred years since.  But how much more capacious is it now!

One of the most striking illustrations of the utility of railways in contributing to the supply
of wholesome articles of food to the population of large cities, is to be found in the rapid
growth of the traffic in Milk.  Readers of newspapers may remember the descriptions published
some years since of the horrid dens in which London cows were penned, and of the odious compound
sold by the name of milk, of which the least deleterious ingredient in it was supplied by the
“cow with the iron tail.”  That state of affairs is now completely changed.  What with the
greatly improved state of the London dairies and the better quality of the milk supplied by
them, together with the large quantities brought by railway from a range of a hundred miles
and more all round London, even the poorest classes in the metropolis are now enabled to obtain
as wholesome a supply of the article as the inhabitants of most country towns.

These great streams of food, which we have thus so summarily described, flow into London so
continuously and uninterruptedly, that comparatively few persons are aware of the magnitude
and importance of the process thus daily going forward.  Though gathered from an immense extent
of country—embracing England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland—the influx is so unintermitted that
it is relied upon with as much certainty as if it only came from the counties immediately adjoining
London.  The express meat-train from Aberdeen arrives in town as punctually as the Clapham
omnibus, and the express milk-train from Aylesbury is as regular in its delivery as the penny
post.  Indeed London now depends so much upon railways for its subsistence, that it may be
said to be fed by them from day to day, having never more than a few days’ food in stock. 
And the supply is so regular and continuous, that the possibility of its being interrupted
never for a moment occurs to any one.  Yet in these days of strikes amongst workmen, such a
contingency is quite within the limits of possibility.  Another contingency, which might arise
during a state of war, is probably still more remote.  But were it possible for a war to occur
between England and a combination of foreign powers possessed of stronger ironclads than ours,
and that they were able to ram our ships back into port and land an enemy of overpowering force
on the Essex coast, it would be sufficient for them to occupy or cut the railways leading from
the north, to starve London into submission in less than a fortnight.

Besides supplying London with food, railways have also been instrumental in ensuring the more
regular and economical supply of fuel,—a matter of almost as vital importance to the population
in a climate such as that of England.  So long as the market was supplied with coal brought
by sea in sailing ships, fuel in winter often rose to a famine price, especially during long-continued
easterly winds.  But now that railways are in full work, the price is almost as steady in winter
as in summer, and (but for strikes) the supply is more regular at all seasons.

But the carriage of food and fuel to London forms but a small part of the merchandise traffic
carried by railway.  Above 600,000 tons of goods of various kinds yearly pass through one station
only, that of the London and North-Western Company, at Camden Town; and sometimes as many as
20,000 parcels daily.  Every other metropolitan station is similarly alive with traffic inwards
and outwards, London having since the introduction of railways become more than ever a great
distributive centre, to which merchandise of all kinds converges, and from which it is distributed
to all parts of the country.  Mr. Bazley, M.P., stated at a late public meeting at Manchester,
that it would probably require ten millions of horses to convey by road the merchandise traffic
which is now annually carried by railway.

Railways have also proved of great value in connection with the Cheap Postage system.  By their
means it has become possible to carry letters, newspapers, books and post parcels, in any quantity,
expeditiously, and cheaply.  The Liverpool and Manchester line was no sooner opened in 1830,
than the Post Office authorities recognised its utility, and used it for carrying the mails
between the two towns.  When the London and Birmingham line was opened eight years later, mail
trains were at once put on,—the directors undertaking to perform the distance of 113 miles
within 5 hours by day and 5½ hours by night.  As additional lines were opened, the old four-horse
mail coaches were gradually discontinued, until in 1858, the last of them, the “Derby Dilly,”
which ran between Manchester and Derby, was taken off on the opening of the Midland line to
Rowsley.

The increased accommodation provided by railways was found of essential importance, more particularly
after the adoption of the Cheap Postage system; and that such accommodation was needed will
be obvious from the extraordinary increase which has taken place in the number of letters and
packets sent by post.  Thus, in 1839, the number of chargeable letters carried was only 76
millions, and of newspapers 44½ millions; whereas, in 1865, the numbers of letters had increased
to 720 millions, and in 1867 to 775 millions, or more than ten-fold, while the number of newspapers,
books, samples and patterns (a new branch of postal business began in 1864) had increased,
in 1865, to 98½ millions.

To accommodate this largely-increasing traffic, the bulk of which is carried by railway, the
mileage run by mail trains in the United Kingdom has increased from 25,000 miles a day in 1854
(the first year of which we have any return of the mileage run) to 60,000 miles a day in 1867,
or an increase of 240 per cent.  The Post Office expenditure on railway service has also increased,
but not in like proportion, having been £364,000 in the former year, and £559,575 in the latter,
or an increase of 154 per cent.  The revenue, gross and net, has increased still more rapidly.
In 1841, the first complete year of the Cheap Postage system, the gross revenue was £1,359,466
and the net revenue £500,789; in 1854, the gross revenue was £2,574,407, and the net revenue
£1,173,723; and in 1867, the gross revenue was £4,548,129, and the net revenue £2,127,125,
being an increase of 420 per cent. compared with 1841, and of 180 per cent. compared with 1854.
How much of this net increase might fairly be credited to the Railway Postal service we shall
not pretend to say; but assuredly the proportion must be very considerable.

One of the great advantages of railways in connection with the postal service is the greatly
increased frequency of communication which they provide between all the large towns.  Thus
Liverpool has now six deliveries of Manchester letters daily; while every large town in the
kingdom has two or more deliveries of London letters daily.  In 1863, 393 towns had two mails
daily from London; 50 had three mails daily; 7 had four mails a day from London, and 15 had
four mails a day to London; while 3 towns had five mails a day from London, and 6 had five
mails a day to London.

Another feature of the railway mail train, as of the passenger train, is its capacity to carry
any quantity of letters and post parcels that may require to be carried.  In 1838, the aggregate
weight of all the evening mails despatched from London by twenty-eight mail coaches was 4 tons
6 cwt., or an average of about 3¼ cwt. each, though the maximum contract weight was 15 cwt.
The mails now are necessarily much heavier, the number of letters and packets having, as we
have seen, increased more than ten-fold since 1839.  But it is not the ordinary so much as
the extraordinary mails that are of considerable weight,—more particularly the American, the
Continental, and the Australian mails.  It is no unusual thing, we are informed, for the last-mentioned
mail to weigh as much as 40 tons.  How many of the old mail coaches it would take to carry
such a mail the 79 miles journey to Southampton, with a relay of four horses every five or
seven miles, is a problem for the arithmetician to solve.  But even supposing each coach to
be loaded to the maximum weight of 15 cwt. per coach, it would require about sixty vehicles
and about 1700 horses to carry the 40 tons, besides the coachman and guards.

Whatever may be said of the financial management of railways, there can be no doubt as to the
great benefits conferred by them on the public wherever made.  Even those railways which have
exhibited the most “frightful examples” of financing and jobbing, have been found to prove
of unquestionable public convenience and utility.  And notwithstanding all the faults and imperfections
that have been alleged against railways, we think that they must, nevertheless, be recognised
as by far the most valuable means of communication between men and nations that has yet been
given to the world.

The author’s object in publishing this book in its original form, was to describe, in connection
with the ‘Life of George Stephenson,’ the origin and progress of the railway system,—to show
by what moral and material agencies its founders were enabled to carry their ideas into effect,
and work out results which even then were of a remarkable character, though they have since,
as above described, become so much more extraordinary. The favour with which successive editions
of the book have been received, has justified the author in his anticipation that such a narrative
would prove of general, if not of permanent interest.

The book was written with the concurrence and assistance of Robert Stephenson, who also supplied
the necessary particulars relating to himself.  Such portions of these were accordingly embodied
in the narrative as could with propriety be published during his lifetime, and the remaining
portions have since been added, with the object of rendering more complete the record of the
son’s life as well as of the early history of the Railway system.

CONTENTS

                              CHAPTER I.

            NEWCASTLE AND THE GREAT NORTHERN COAL-FIELDS.

The colliery districts of the                          Pages 1–11 North—Newcastle-upon-Tyne
in ancient times—The Roman settlement—Social insecurity in the Middle Ages—Northumberland roads—The
coal-trade—Modern Newcastle—Coal haulage—Early waggon-roads, tram-roads, and railways—Machinery
of coal-mines—Newcomen’s fire-engine—The colliers, their character and habits—Coal-staiths—The
keelmen

                             CHAPTER II.

        WYLAM AND DEWLEY BURN—GEORGE STEPHENSON’S EARLY YEARS.

Wylam Colliery and village—George Stephenson’s         12–30 birth-place—His parents—The Stephenson
family—Old Robert Stephenson—George’s boyhood—Dewley Burn Colliery—Sister Nell’s bonnet—Employed
as a herd-boy—Makes clay engines—Follows the plough—Employed as corf-bitter—Drives the gin-horse—Black
Callerton Colliery—Love of animals—Made assistant-fireman—Old Robert and family shift their
home—Jolly’s Close, Newburn—Family earnings—George as fireman—His athletic feats—Throckley
Bridge—“A made man for life!”—Appointed engineman—Studies his engine—Experiments in egg-hatching—Puts
himself to school, and learns to read—His schoolmasters—Progress in arithmetic—His dog—Learns
to brake—Brakesman at Black Callerton—Duties of brakesman—Begins shoe-making—Fanny Henderson—Saves
his first guinea—Fight with a pitman

                             CHAPTER III.

            ENGINEMAN AT WILLINGTON QUAY AND KILLINGWORTH.

Sobriety and studiousness—Inventiveness—Removes to     31–46 Willington Quay—Marries Fanny
Henderson—Their cottage at Willington—Attempts at perpetual motion—William Fairbairn and George
Stephenson—Ballast-heaving—Chimney on fire, and clock-cleaning—Birth of Robert Stephenson—George
removes to West Moor, Killingworth—Death of his wife—Engineman at Montrose, Scotland—His pump-boot—Saves
money—His return to Killingworth—Brakesman at West Moor—Is drawn for the Militia—Thinks of
emigrating to America—Takes a contract for brakeing engines—Improves the winding-engine—Cures
a pumping-engine—Becomes famous as an engine-doctor—Appointed engine-wright of a colliery

                             CHAPTER IV.

   THE STEPHENSONS AT KILLINGWORTH—EDUCATION AND SELF-EDUCATION OF
                           FATHER AND SON.

George Stephenson’s self-improvement—John              47–62 Wigham—Studies in Natural Philosophy—Sobriety—Education
of Robert Stephenson—Sent to Rutter’s school, Benton—Bruce’s school, Newcastle—Literary and
Philosophical Institute—George educates his son in Mechanics—Ride to Killingworth—Robert’s
boyish tricks—Repeats the Franklin kite-experiment—Stephenson’s cottage, West Moor—Odd mechanical
expedients—Competition in last-making—Father and son make a sun-dial—Colliery improvements—Stephenson’s
mechanical expertness

                              CHAPTER V.

     EARLY HISTORY OF THE LOCOMOTIVE—GEORGE STEPHENSON BEGINS ITS
                             IMPROVEMENT.

Various expedients for                                 63–88 coal-haulage—Sailing-waggons—Mr.
Edgworth’s experiments—Cugnot’s first locomotive steam-carriage—Murdock’s model locomotive—Trevithick’s
steam-carriage and tram-engine—Blenkinsop’s engine—Chapman and Brunton’s locomotives—The Wylam
waggon-way—Mr. Blackett’s experiments—Jonathan Foster—William Hedley—The Wylam engine—Stephenson
determines to build a locomotive—Lord Ravensworth—The first Killingworth engine described—The
steam-blast invented—Stephenson’s second locomotive

                             CHAPTER VI.

                INVENTION OF THE “GEORDY” SAFETY-LAMP.

Frequency of colliery explosions—Accident in the       89–108 Killingworth Pit—Stephenson’s
heroic conduct—A safety-lamp described—Dr. Clanny’s lamp—Stephenson’s experiments on fire-damp—Designs
a lamp, and tests it in the pit—Cottage experiments with coal-gas—Stephenson’s second and third
lamps—The Stephenson and Davy controversy—Scene at the Newcastle Institute—The Davy testimonial—The
Stephenson testimonial—Merits of the “Geordy” lamp

                             CHAPTER VII.

GEORGE STEPHENSON’S FURTHER IMPROVEMENTS IN THE LOCOMOTIVE—THE HETTON
    RAILWAY—ROBERT STEPHENSON AS VIEWER’S APPRENTICE AND STUDENT.

The Killingworth mine machinery—Stephenson improves    109–122 his locomotive—Strengthens the
road—His patent—His steam-springs—Experiments on friction—Steam-locomotion on common roads—Early
neglect of the locomotive—Stephenson again thinks of emigration—Constructs the Hetton Railway—The
working power employed—Robert Stephenson viewer’s apprentice—His pursuits at Killingworth—His
father sends him to Edinburgh University—His application to the studies of Chemistry, Natural
History, and Natural Philosophy—His MS. volumes of Lectures—Geological tour with Professor
Jameson in the Highlands

                            CHAPTER VIII.

  GEORGE STEPHENSON ENGINEER OF THE STOCKTON AND DARLINGTON RAILWAY.

The Bishop Auckland Coal-field—Edward Pease projects   123–145 a railway from Witton to Stockton—The
Bill rejected—The line re-surveyed, and the Act obtained—George Stephenson’s visit to Edward
Pease—Appointed engineer of the railway—Again surveys the line—Mr. Pease visits Killingworth—The
Newcastle locomotive works projected—The railway constructed—Locomotives ordered—Stephenson’s
anticipations as to railways—Public opening of the line—The coal traffic—The first railway
passenger-coach—The coaching traffic described—The “Locomotion” engine—Race with stage-coach—Commercial
results of the Stockton and Darlington Railway—The town of Middlesborough created

                             CHAPTER IX.

           THE LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY PROJECTED.

Insufficient communications between Manchester and     146–172 Liverpool—The canal monopoly—A
tramroad projected—Joseph Sanders—Sir R. Phillip’s speculations as to railways—Thomas Gray—William
James surveys a line between Liverpool and Manchester—Opposition to the survey—Mr. James’s
visits to Killingworth—Robert Stephenson assists in the survey—George Stephenson appointed
engineer—The first prospectus—Stephenson’s survey opposed—The canal companies—Speculations
as to railway speed—Stephenson’s notions thought extravagant—Article in the ‘Quarterly’—The
Bill before Parliament—The Evidence—George Stephenson in the witness box—Examined as to speed—His
cross-examination—The survey found defective—Mr. Harrison’s speech—Evidence of opposing engineers—Mr.
Alderson’s speech—The Bill withdrawn—Stephenson’s vexation—The scheme prosecuted—The line re-surveyed—Sir
Isaac Coffin’s speech—The Act passed

                              CHAPTER X.

   CHAT MOSS—CONSTRUCTION OF THE LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY.

George Stephenson appointed engineer—Chat Moss         173–192 described—The resident engineers—Mr.
Dixon’s visit of inspection—Stephenson’s theory of a floating road—Operations begun—Tar-barrel
drains—The embankment sinks in the Moss—Proposed abandonment of the work—Stephenson perseveres—The
obstacles conquered—Road across Parr Moss—The road formed—Stephenson’s organization of labour—The
Liverpool Tunnel—Olive Mount Cutting—Sankey Viaduct—Stephenson and Cropper—Stephenson’s labours—Pupils
and assistants—His daily life—Practical education—Evenings at home

                             CHAPTER XI.

  ROBERT STEPHENSON’S RESIDENCE IN COLOMBIA AND RETURN—THE BATTLE OF
                     THE LOCOMOTIVE—THE “ROCKET.”

Robert Stephenson mining engineer in Colombia—Mule     193–220 journey to Bogota—Mariquita—Silver
mining—Difficulties with the Cornishmen—His cottage at Santa Anna—Longs to return home—Resigns
his post—Meeting with Trevithick—Voyage to New York, and shipwreck—Returns to Newcastle, and
takes charge of the factory—The working power of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway—Fixed
engines and locomotives, and their respective advocates—Walker and Rastrick’s report—A prize
offered for the best locomotive—Conferences of the Stephensons—Boiler arrangements and heating
surface—Mr. Booth’s contrivance—Building of the “Rocket”—The competition of engines at Rainhill—The
“Novelty” and “Sanspareil”—Triumph of the “Rocket,” and its destination

                             CHAPTER XII.

OPENING OF THE LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY, AND EXTENSION OF THE
                           RAILWAY SYSTEM.

The railway finished—The traffic arrangements          221–236 organized—Public opening of
the line—Accident to Mr. Huskisson—Arrival of the trains at Manchester—The traffic results—Improvement
of the road and rolling stock—Improvements in the locomotive—The railway a wonder—Extension
of the railway system—Joint-stock railway companies—New lines projected—New engineers—The Grand
Junction—Public opposition to railways—Robert Stephenson engineer to the Leicester and Swannington
Railway—George Stephenson removes to Snibston—Sinks for and gets coal—Stimulates local enterprise—His
liberality

                            CHAPTER XIII.

   ROBERT STEPHENSON CONSTRUCTS THE LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY.

The line projected—George and Robert Stephenson        237–252 appointed engineers—Opposition—Hostile
pamphlets and public meetings—Robert Stephenson and Sir Astley Cooper—The survey obstructed—The
opposing clergyman—The Bill in Parliament—Thrown out in the Lords—Proprietors conciliated,
and the Act obtained—The works let in contracts—The difficulties of the undertaking—The line
described—Blisworth Cutting—Primrose Hill Tunnel—Kilsby Tunnel—Its construction described—Cost
of the Railway greatly increased—Failure of contractors—Magnitude of the works—Railway navvies

                             CHAPTER XIV.

   MANCHESTER AND LEEDS, AND MIDLAND RAILWAYS—STEPHENSON’S LIFE AT
    ALTON—VISIT TO BELGIUM—GENERAL EXTENSION OF RAILWAYS AND THEIR
                               RESULTS.

Projection of new lines—Dutton Viaduct, Grand          253–274 Junction—The Manchester and
Leeds—Summit Tunnel, Littleborough—Magnitude of the work—The Midland Railway—The works compared
with the Simplon road—Slip near Ambergate—Bull Bridge—The York and North Midland—George Stephenson
on his surveys—His quick observation—Travelling and correspondence—Life at Alton Grange—The
Stephensons’ London office—Visits to Belgium—Interviews with the King—Public openings of English
railways—Stephenson’s pupils and assistants—Prophecies falsified concerning railways—Their
advantageous results

                             CHAPTER XV.

    GEORGE STEPHENSON’S COAL MINES—THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM—RAILWAY
                  MANIA—VISITS TO BELGIUM AND SPAIN.

George Stephenson on railways and                      275–300 coal-traffic—Leases the Claycross
estate, and sinks for coal—His extensive lime-works—Removes to Tapton House—British Association
at Newcastle—Appears at Mechanics’ Institutes—Speech at Leeds—His self-acting brake—His views
of railway speed—Theory of “undulating lines”—Chester and Birkenhead Company—Stephenson’s liberality—Atmospheric
railways projected—Stephenson opposes the principle of working—The railway mania—Stephenson
resists, and warns against it—George Hudson, “Railway King”—Parliament and the mania—Stephenson’s
letter to Sir R. Peel—Again visits Belgium—Interviews with King Leopold—Journey into Spain

                             CHAPTER XVI.

   ROBERT STEPHENSON’S CAREER—THE STEPHENSONS AND BRUNEL—EAST COAST
  ROUTE TO SCOTLAND—ROYAL BORDER BRIDGE, BERWICK—HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE,
                              NEWCASTLE.

George Stephenson’s retirement—Robert’s employment     301–319 as Parliamentary Engineer—His
rival Brunel—The Great Western Railway—The width of gauge—Robert Stephenson’s caution as to
investments—The Newcastle and Berwick Railway—Contest in Parliament—George Stephenson’s interview
with Lord Howick—Royal Border Bridge, Berwick—Progress of iron-bridge building—Robert Stephenson
constructs the High Level Bridge, Newcastle—Pile-driving by steam—Characteristics of the structure—Through
railway to Scotland completed

                            CHAPTER XVII.

       ROBERT STEPHENSON’S TUBULAR BRIDGES AT MENAI AND CONWAY.

George Stephenson surveys a line from Chester to       320–340 Holyhead—Robert Stephenson’s
construction of the works at Penmaen Mawr—Crossing of the Menai Strait—Various plans proposed—A
tubular beam determined on—Strength of wrought-iron tubes—Mr. William Fairbairn consulted—His
experiments—The design settled—The Britannia Bridge described—The Conway Bridge—Floating of
the tubes—Lifting of the tubes—Robert Stephenson’s anxieties—Bursting of the Hydraulic Press—The
works completed—Merits of the Britannia and Conway Bridges

                            CHAPTER XVIII.

         GEORGE STEPHENSON’S CLOSING YEARS—ILLNESS AND DEATH.

George Stephenson’s Life at Tapton—Experiments in      341–356 Horticulture, Gardening, and
Farming—Affection for animals—Bird-hatching and bee-keeping—Reading and conversation—Rencontre
with Lord Denman—Hospitality at Tapton—Experiments with the microscope—Frolics—“A crowdie night”—Visits
to London—Visit to Sir Robert Peel at Drayton Manor—Encounter with Dr. Buckland—Coal formed
by the sun’s light—Opening of the Trent Valley Railway—Meeting with Emerson—Illness, death,
and funeral—Memorial Statues

                             CHAPTER XIX.

    ROBERT STEPHENSON’S VICTORIA BRIDGE, LOWER CANADA—ILLNESS AND
                  DEATH—STEPHENSON CHARACTERISTICS.

Robert Stephenson’s inheritances—Gradual retirement    357–380 from the profession of engineer—His
last great works—Tubular Bridges over the St. Lawrence and the Nile—The Grand Trunk Railway,
Canada—Necessity for a great railway bridge near Montreal—Discussion as to the plan—Robert
Stephenson’s report—A tubular bridge determined on—Massiveness of the piers—Ice-floods in the
St. Lawrence—Victoria Bridge constructed and completed—Tubular bridges in Egypt—The Suez Canal—Robert
Stephenson’s employment as arbitrator—Assists Brunel at launching of the “Great Eastern”—Regardlessness
of health—Death and Funeral—Characteristics of the Stephensons and resumé of their history—Politics
of father and son—Services rendered to civilization by the Stephensons

INDEX                                                  381

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                                                  PAGE

Portrait of George Stephenson to face title page
High Level Bridge, to face                                         1
Map of Newcastle District                                            2
Flange rail                                                          6
Coal-staith on the Tyne                                             10
Coal waggons                                                        11
Wylam Colliery and village                                          12
High Street House, Wylam—George Stephenson’s birthplace             14
Newburn on the Tyne                                                 20
Colliery Whimsey                                                    30
Stephenson’s Cottage, Willington Quay                               31
West Moor Colliery                                                  37
Killingworth High Pit                                               46
Glebe Farm House, Benton                                            47
Rutter’s School House, Long Benton                                  51
Bruce’s School, Newcastle                                           53
Stephenson’s Cottage, West Moor                                     57
Sun-dial at Killingworth                                            60
Colliers’ Cottages at Long Benton                                   62
Cugnot’s Engine                                                     64
Section of Murdock’s Model Locomotive                               66
Trevithick’s high-pressure Tram-Engine                              70
Improved Wylam Engine                                               78
Spur-gear                                                           83
The Pit-head, West Moor                                             91
Davy’s and Stephenson’s Safety-lamps                               101
West Moor Pit, Killingworth                                        108
Half-lap joint                                                     111
Old Killingworth Locomotive                                        113
Map of Stockton and Darlington Railway                             123
Portrait of Edward Pease                                           124
The first Railway Coach                                            139
The No. 1 Engine at Darlington                                     142
Middlesborough-on-Tees                                             145
Map of Liverpool and Manchester Railway (Western Part)             150
                   ,,                    (Eastern part)            151
Surveying on Chat Moss                                             172
Olive Mount Cutting                                                184
Sankey Viaduct                                                     186
Robert Stephenson’s Cottage at Santa Anna                          198
The “Rocket”                                                       212
Locomotive competition, Rainhill                                   215
Railway versus Road                                              220
Map of Leicester and Swannington Railway                           233
Stephenson’s House at Alton Grange                                 236
Portrait of Robert Stephenson, to face                           237
Map of London and Birmingham Railway (Rugby to Watford)            242
Blisworth Cutting                                                  243
Shafts over Kilsby Tunnel                                          246
Dutton Viaduct                                                     254
Entrance to Summit Tunnel, Lancashire and Yorkshire                256
Railway
Land-slip, near Ambergate, North Midland Railway                   259
Bullbridge, near Ambergate                                         260
Coalville and Snibston Colliery                                    274
Tapton House, near Chesterfield                                    275
Lime-works at Ambergate                                            278
Newcastle, from the High Level Bridge                              301
Royal Border Bridge, Berwick-upon-Tweed                            311
High Level Bridge—Elevation of one Arch                            318
Penmaen Mawr                                                       322
Map of Menai Straits                                               325
Conway Tubular Bridge                                              334
Britannia Bridge                                                   339
Conway Bridge—Floating the first Tube                              340
View in Tapton Gardens                                             341
Pathway to Tapton House                                            347
Trinity Church, Chesterfield                                       355
Tablet in Trinity Church, Chesterfield                             356
The Victoria Bridge, Montreal                                      357
Robert Stephenson’s Burial-place in Westminster Abbey              369
The Stephenson Memorial Schools, Willington Quay                   380

         [Picture: Newcastle-upon-Tyne and the High-level Bridge]

CHAPTER I. NEWCASTLE AND THE GREAT NORTHERN COAL-FIELD.

In no quarter of England have greater changes been wrought by the successive advances made
in the practical science of engineering than in the extensive colliery districts of the North,
of which Newcastle-upon-Tyne is the centre and the capital.

In ancient times the Romans planted a colony at Newcastle, throwing a bridge across the Tyne
near the site of the low-level bridge shown in the prefixed engraving, and erecting a strong
fortification above it on the high ground now occupied by the Central Railway Station.  North
and north-west lay a wild country, abounding in moors, mountains, and morasses, but occupied
to a certain extent by fierce and barbarous tribes.  To defend the young colony against their
ravages, a strong wall was built by the Romans, extending from Wallsend on the north bank of
the Tyne, a few miles below Newcastle, across the country to Burgh-upon-Sands on the Solway
Firth.  The remains of the wall are still to be traced in the less populous hill-districts
of Northumberland.  In the neighbourhood of Newcastle they have been gradually effaced by the
works of succeeding generations, though the “Wallsend” coal consumed in our household fires
still serves to remind us of the great Roman work.

                   [Picture: Map of Newcastle District]

After the withdrawal of the Romans, Northumbria became planted by immigrant Saxons from North
Germany and Norsemen from Scandinavia, whose Eorls or Earls made Newcastle their principal
seat.  Then came the Normans, from whose New Castle, built some eight hundred years since,
the town derived its present name.  The keep of this venerable structure, black with age and
smoke, still stands entire at the northern end of the noble high-level bridge—the utilitarian
work of modern times thus confronting the warlike relic of the older civilisation.

The nearness of Newcastle to the Scotch Border was a great hindrance to its security and progress
in the middle ages of English history.  Indeed, the district between it and Berwick continued
to be ravaged by moss-troopers long after the union of the Crowns.  The gentry lived in their
strong Peel castles; even the larger farm-houses were fortified; and bloodhounds were trained
for the purpose of tracking the cattle-reavers to their retreats in the hills.  The Judges
of Assize rode from Carlisle to Newcastle guarded by an escort armed to the teeth.  A tribute
called “dagger and protection money” was annually paid by the Sheriff of Newcastle for the
purpose of providing daggers and other weapons for the escort; and, though the need of such
protection has long since ceased, the tribute continues to be paid in broad gold pieces of
the time of Charles the First.

Until about the middle of last century the roads across Northumberland were little better than
horse-tracks, and not many years since the primitive agricultural cart with solid wooden wheels
was almost as common in the western parts of the county as it is in Spain now.  The tract of
the old Roman road continued to be the most practicable route between Newcastle and Carlisle,
the traffic between the two towns having been carried along it upon packhorses until a comparatively
recent period.

Since that time great changes have taken place on the Tyne.  When wood for firing became scarce
and dear, and the forests of the South of England were found inadequate to supply the increasing
demand for fuel, attention was turned to the rich stores of coal lying underground in the neighbourhood
of Newcastle and Durham.  It then became an article of increasing export, and “seacoal” fires
gradually supplanted those of wood.  Hence an old writer described Newcastle as “the Eye of
the North, and the Hearth that warmeth the South parts of this kingdom with Fire.” Fuel has
become the staple product of the district, the quantity exported increasing from year to year,
until the coal raised from these northern mines amounts to upwards of sixteen millions of tons
a year, of which not less than nine millions are annually conveyed away by sea.

Newcastle has in the mean time spread in all directions far beyond its ancient boundaries.
From a walled mediæval town of monks and merchants, it has been converted into a busy centre
of commerce and manufactures inhabited by nearly 100,000 people.  It is no longer a Border
fortress—a “shield and defence against the invasions and frequent insults of the Scots,” as
described in ancient charters—but a busy centre of peaceful industry, and the outlet for a
vast amount of steam-power, which is exported in the form of coal to all parts of the world.
Newcastle is in many respects a town of singular and curious interest, especially in its older
parts, which are full of crooked lanes and narrow streets, wynds, and chares, {4} formed by
tall, antique houses, rising tier above tier along the steep northern bank of the Tyne, as
the similarly precipitous streets of Gateshead crowd the opposite shore.

All over the coal region, which extends from the Coquet to the Tees, about fifty miles from
north to south, the surface of the soil exhibits the signs of extensive underground workings.
As you pass through the country at night, the earth looks as if it were bursting with fire
at many points; the blaze of coke-ovens, iron-furnaces, and coal-heaps reddening the sky to
such a distance that the horizon seems to be a glowing belt of fire.

From the necessity which existed for facilitating the transport of coals from the pits to the
shipping places, it is easy to understand how the railway and the locomotive should have first
found their home in such a district as we have thus briefly described.  At an early period
the coal was carried to the boats in panniers, or in sacks upon horses’ backs. Then carts were
used, to facilitate the progress of which tramways of flag-stone were laid down.  This led
to the enlargement of the vehicle, which became known as a waggon, and it was mounted on four
wheels instead of two.  A local writer about the middle of the seventeenth century says, “Many
thousand people are engaged in this trade of coals; many live by working of them in the pits;
and many live by conveying them in waggons and wains to the river Tyne.”

Still further to facilitate the haulage of the waggons, pieces of planking were laid parallel
upon wooden sleepers, or imbedded in the ordinary track, by which friction was still further
diminished.  It is said that these wooden rails were first employed by one Beaumont, about
1630; and on a road thus laid, a single horse was capable of drawing a large loaded waggon
from the coal-pit to the shipping staith.  Roger North, in 1676, found the practice had become
extensively adopted, and he speaks of the large sums then paid for way-leaves; that is, the
permission granted by the owners of lands lying between the coal-pit and the river-side to
lay down a tramway between the one and the other.  A century later, Arthur Young observed that
not only had these roads become greatly multiplied, but important works had been constructed
to carry them along upon the same level.  “The coal-waggon roads from the pits to the water,”
he says, “are great works, carried over all sorts of inequalities of ground, so far as the
distance of nine or ten miles.  The tracks of the wheels are marked with pieces of wood let
into the road for the wheels of the waggons to run on, by which one horse is enabled to draw,
and that with ease, fifty or sixty bushels of coals.” {5}

Similar waggon-roads were laid down in the coal districts of Wales, Cumberland, and Scotland.
At the time of the Scotch rebellion in 1745, a tramroad existed between the Tranent coal-pits
and the small harbour of Cockenzie in East Lothian; and a portion of the line was selected
by General Cope as a position for his cannon at the battle of Prestonpans.

In these rude wooden tracks we find the germ of the modern railroad. Improvements were gradually
made in them.  Thus, at some collieries, thin plates of iron were nailed upon their upper surface,
for the purpose of protecting the parts most exposed to friction.  Cast-iron rails were also
tried, the wooden rails having been found liable to rot.  The first rails of this kind are
supposed to have been used at Whitehaven as early as 1738.  This cast-iron road was denominated
a “plate-way,” from the plate-like form in which the rails were cast.  In 1767, as appears
from the books of the Coalbrookdale Iron Works, in Shropshire, five or six tons of rails were
cast, as an experiment, on the suggestion of Mr. Reynolds, one of the partners; and they were
shortly after laid down to form a road.

In 1776, a cast-iron tramway, nailed to wooden sleepers, was laid down at the Duke of Norfolk’s
colliery near Sheffield.  The person who designed and constructed this coal line was Mr. John
Curr, whose son has erroneously claimed for him the invention of the cast-iron railway.  He
certainly adopted it early, and thereby met the fate of men before their age; for his plan
was opposed by the labouring people of the colliery, who got up a riot in which they tore up
the road and burnt the coal-staith, whilst Mr. Curr fled into a neighbouring wood for concealment,
and lay there perdu for three days and nights, to escape the fury of the populace.  The plates
of these early tramways had a ledge cast on their edge to guide the wheel along the road, after
the manner shown in the annexed cut.

                          [Picture: Flange rail]

In 1789, Mr. William Jessop constructed a railway at Loughborough, in Leicestershire, and there
introduced the cast-iron edge-rail, with flanches cast upon the tire of the waggon-wheels to
keep them on the track, instead of having the margin or flanch cast upon the rail itself; and
this plan was shortly after adopted in other places.  In 1800, Mr. Benjamin Outram, of Little
Eaton, in Derbyshire (father of the distinguished General Outram), used stone props instead
of timber for supporting the ends or joinings of the rails.  Thus the use of railroads, in
various forms, gradually extended, until they were found in general use all over the mining
districts.

Such was the growth of the railway, which, it will be observed, originated in necessity, and
was modified according to experience; progress in this, as in all departments of mechanics,
having been effected by the exertions of many men, one generation entering upon the labours
of that which preceded it, and carrying them onward to further stages of improvement.  We shall
afterwards find that the invention of the locomotive was made by like successive steps.  It
was not the invention of one man, but of a succession of men, each working at the proper hour,
and according to the needs of that hour; one inventor interpreting only the first word of the
problem which his successors were to solve after long and laborious efforts and experiments.
“The locomotive is not the invention of one man,” said Robert Stephenson at Newcastle, “but
of a nation of mechanical engineers.”

The same circumstances which led to the rapid extension of railways in the coal districts of
the north tended to direct the attention of the mining engineers to the early development of
the powers of the steam-engine as a useful instrument of motive power.  The necessity which
existed for a more effective method of hauling the coals from the pits to the shipping places
was constantly present to many minds; and the daily pursuits of a large class of mechanics
occupied in the management of steam power, by which the coal was raised from the pits, and
the mines were pumped clear of water, had the effect of directing their attention to the same
agency as the best means for accomplishing that object.

Among the upper-ground workmen employed at the coal-pits, the principal are the firemen, enginemen,
and brakes-men, who fire and work the engines, and superintend the machinery by means of which
the collieries are worked.  Previous to the introduction of the steam-engine the usual machine
employed for the purpose was what is called a “gin.”  The gin consists of a large drum placed
horizontally, round which ropes attached to buckets and corves are wound, which are thus drawn
up or sent down the shafts by a horse travelling in a circular track or “gin race.”  This method
was employed for drawing up both coals and water, and it is still used for the same purpose
in small collieries; but where the quantity of water to be raised is great, pumps worked by
steam power are called into requisition.

Newcomen’s atmospheric engine was first made use of to work the pumps; and it continued to
be so employed long after the more powerful and economical condensing engine of Watt had been
invented.  In the Newcomen or “fire engine,” as it was called, the power is produced by the
pressure of the atmosphere forcing down the piston in the cylinder, on a vacuum being produced
within it by condensation of the contained steam by means of cold water injection.  The piston-rod
is attached to one end of a lever, whilst the pump-rod works in connexion with the other,—the
hydraulic action employed to raise the water being exactly similar to that of a common sucking-pump.

The working of a Newcomen engine was a clumsy and apparently a very painful process, accompanied
by an extraordinary amount of wheezing, sighing, creaking, and bumping.  When the pump descended,
there was heard a plunge, a heavy sigh, and a loud bump: then, as it rose, and the sucker began
to act, there was heard a croak, a wheeze, another bump, and then a strong rush of water as
it was lifted and poured out.  Where engines of a more powerful and improved description are
used, the quantity of water raised is enormous—as much as a million and a half gallons in the
twenty-four hours.

The pitmen, or “the lads belaw,” who work out the coal below ground, are a peculiar class,
quite distinct from the workmen on the surface.  They are a people with peculiar habits, manners,
and character, as much as fishermen and sailors, to whom, indeed, they bear, in some respects,
a considerable resemblance.  Some fifty years since they were a much rougher and worse educated
class than they are now; hard workers, but very wild and uncouth; much given to “steeks,” or
strikes; and distinguished, in their hours of leisure and on pay-nights, for their love of
cock-fighting, dog-fighting, hard drinking, and cuddy races.  The pay-night was a fortnightly
saturnalia, in which the pitman’s character was fully brought out, especially when the “yel”
was good.  Though earning much higher wages than the ordinary labouring population of the upper
soil, the latter did not mix nor intermarry with them; so that they were left to form their
own communities, and hence their marked peculiarities as a class.  Indeed, a sort of traditional
disrepute seems long to have clung to the pitmen, arising perhaps from the nature of their
employment, and from the circumstance that the colliers were among the last classes enfranchised
in England, as they were certainly the last in Scotland, where they continued bondmen down
to the end of last century.  The last thirty years, however, have worked a great improvement
in the moral condition of the Northumbrian pitmen; the abolition of the twelve months’ bond
to the mine, and the substitution of a month’s notice previous to leaving, having given them
greater freedom and opportunity for obtaining employment; and day-schools and Sunday-schools,
together with the important influences of railways, have brought them fully up to a level with
the other classes of the labouring population.

The coals, when raised from the pits, are emptied into the waggons placed alongside, from whence
they are sent along the rails to the staiths erected by the river-side, the waggons sometimes
descending by their own gravity along inclined planes, the waggoner standing behind to check
the speed by means of a convoy or wooden brake bearing upon the rims of the wheels.  Arrived
at the staiths, the waggons are emptied at once into the ships waiting alongside for cargo.
Any one who has sailed down the Tyne from Newcastle Bridge cannot but have been struck with
the appearance of the immense staiths, constructed of timber, which are erected at short distances
from each other on both sides of the river.

                    [Picture: Coal-Staith on the Tyne]

But a great deal of the coal shipped from the Tyne comes from above-bridge, where sea-going
craft cannot reach, and is floated down the river in “keels,” in which the coals are sometimes
piled up according to convenience when large, or, when the coal is small or tender, it is conveyed
in tubs to prevent breakage.  These keels are of a very ancient model,—perhaps the oldest extant
in England: they are even said to be of the same build as those in which the Norsemen navigated
the Tyne centuries ago.  The keel is a tubby, grimy-looking craft, rounded fore and aft, with
a single large square sail, which the keel-bullies, as the Tyne watermen are called, manage
with great dexterity; the vessel being guided by the aid of the “swape,” or great oar, which
is used as a kind of rudder at the stern of the vessel.  These keelmen are an exceedingly hardy
class of workmen, not by any means so quarrelsome as their designation of “bully” would imply—the
word being merely derived from the obsolete term “boolie,” or beloved, an appellation still
in familiar use amongst brother workers in the coal districts.  One of the most curious sights
upon the Tyne is the fleet of hundreds of these black-sailed, black-hulled keels, bringing
down at each tide their black cargoes for the ships at anchor in the deep water at Shields
and other parts of the river below Newcastle.

These preliminary observations will perhaps be sufficient to explain the meaning of many of
the occupations alluded to, and the phrases employed, in the course of the following narrative,
some of which might otherwise have been comparatively unintelligible to the general reader.

The colliery village of Wylam is situated on the north bank of the Tyne, about eight miles
west of Newcastle.  The Newcastle and Carlisle railway runs along the opposite bank; and the
traveller by that line sees the usual signs of a colliery in the unsightly pumping-engines
surrounded by heaps of ashes, coal-dust, and slag; whilst a neighbouring iron-furnace in full
blast throws out dense smoke and loud jets of steam by day and lurid flames at night.  These
works form the nucleus of the village, which is almost entirely occupied by coal-miners and
iron-furnacemen. The place is remarkable for its large population, but not for its cleanness
or neatness as a village; the houses, as in most colliery villages, being the property of the
owners or lessees, who employ them in temporarily accommodating the workpeople, against whose
earnings there is a weekly set-off for house and coals.  About the end of last century the
estate of which Wylam forms part, belonged to Mr. Blackett, a gentleman of considerable celebrity
in coal-mining, then more generally known as the proprietor of the ‘Globe’ newspaper.

There is nothing to interest one in the village itself.  But a few hundred yards from its eastern
extremity stands a humble detached dwelling, which will be interesting to many as the birthplace
of one of the most remarkable men of our times—George Stephenson, the Railway Engineer.  It
is a common two-storied, red-tiled, rubble house, portioned off into four labourers’ apartments.
It is known by the name of High Street House, and was originally so called because it stands
by the side of what used to be the old riding post road or street between Newcastle and Hexham,
along which the post was carried on horseback within the memory of persons living.

The lower room in the west end of this house was the home of the Stephenson family; and there
George Stephenson was born, the second of a family of six children, on the 9th of June, 1781.
The apartment is now, what it was then, an ordinary labourer’s dwelling,—its walls are unplastered,
its floor is of clay, and the bare rafters are exposed overhead.

Robert Stephenson, or “Old Bob,” as the neighbours familiarly called him, and his wife Mabel,
were a respectable couple, careful and hard-working. It is said that Robert Stephenson’s father
was a Scotchman, and came into England as a gentleman’s servant.  Mabel, his wife, was the
daughter of Robert Carr, a dyer at Ovingham.  When first married, they lived at Walbottle,
a village situated between Wylam and Newcastle, afterwards removing to Wylam, where Robert
was employed as fireman of the old pumping engine at that colliery.

 [Picture: High-street House, Wylam, the Birthplace of George Stephenson]

An old Wylam collier, who remembered George Stephenson’s father, thus described him:—“Geordie’s
fayther war like a peer o’ deals nailed thegither, an’ a bit o’ flesh i’ th’ inside; he war
as queer as Dick’s hatband—went thrice aboot, an’ wudn’t tie.  His wife Mabel war a delicat’
boddie, an’ varry flighty.  Thay war an honest family, but sair hadden doon i’ th’ world.”
Indeed, the earnings of old Robert did not amount to more than twelve shillings a week; and,
as there were six children to maintain, the family, during their stay at Wylam, were necessarily
in very straitened circumstances.  The father’s wages being barely sufficient, even with the
most rigid economy, for the sustenance of the household, there was little to spare for clothing,
and nothing for education, so none of the children were sent to school.

Old Robert was a general favourite in the village, especially amongst the children, whom he
was accustomed to draw about him whilst tending the engine-fire, and feast their young imaginations
with tales of Sinbad the Sailor and Robinson Crusoe, besides others of his own invention; so
that “Bob’s engine-fire” came to be the most popular resort in the village. Another feature
in his character, by which he was long remembered, was his affection for birds and animals;
and he had many tame favourites of both sorts, which were as fond of resorting to his engine-fire
as the boys and girls themselves.  In the winter time he had usually a flock of tame robins
about him; and they would come hopping familiarly to his feet to pick up the crumbs which he
had saved for them out of his humble dinner.  At his cottage he was rarely without one or more
tame blackbirds, which flew about the house, or in and out at the door.  In summer-time he
would go a-birdnesting with his children; and one day he took his little son George to see
a blackbird’s nest for the first time. Holding him up in his arms, he let the wondering boy
peep down, through the branches held aside for the purpose, into a nest full of young birds—a
sight which the boy never forgot, but used to speak of with delight to his intimate friends
when he himself had grown an old man.

The boy George led the ordinary life of working-people’s children.  He played about the doors;
went birdnesting when he could; and ran errands to the village.  He was also an eager listener,
with the other children, to his father’s curious tales; and he early imbibed from him that
affection for birds and animals which continued throughout his life.  In course of time he
was promoted to the office of carrying his father’s dinner to him while at work, and it was
on such occasions his great delight to see the robins fed.  At home he helped to nurse, and
that with a careful hand, his younger brothers and sisters.  One of his duties was to see that
the other children were kept out of the way of the chaldron waggons, which were then dragged
by horses along the wooden tramroad immediately in front of the cottage-door.  This waggon-way
was the first in the northern district on which the experiment of a locomotive engine was tried.
But at the time of which we speak, the locomotive had scarcely been dreamt of in England as
a practicable working power; horses only were used to haul the coal; and one of the first sights
with which the boy was familiar was the coal-waggons dragged by them along the wooden railway
at Wylam.

Thus eight years passed; after which, the coal having been worked out, the old engine, which
had grown “dismal to look at,” as one of the workmen described it, was pulled down; and then
Robert, having obtained employment as a fireman at the Dewley Burn Colliery, removed with his
family to that place.  Dewley Burn, at this day, consists of a few old-fashioned low-roofed
cottages standing on either side of a babbling little stream.  They are connected by a rustic
wooden bridge, which spans the rift in front of the doors.  In the central one-roomed cottage
of this group, on the right bank, Robert Stephenson lived for a time with his family; the pit
at which he worked standing in the rear of the cottages.

Young though he was, George was now of an age to be able to contribute something towards the
family maintenance; for in a poor man’s house, every child is a burden until his little hands
can be turned to profitable account.  That the boy was shrewd and active, and possessed of
a ready mother wit, will be evident enough from the following incident. One day his sister
Nell went into Newcastle to buy a bonnet; and Geordie went with her “for company.”  At a draper’s
shop in the Bigg Market, Nell found a “chip” quite to her mind, but on pricing it, alas! it
was found to be fifteen pence beyond her means, and she left the shop very much disappointed.
But Geordie said, “Never heed, Nell; see if I canna win siller enough to buy the bonnet; stand
ye there, till I come back.”  Away ran the boy and disappeared amidst the throng of the market,
leaving the girl to wait his return.  Long and long she waited, until it grew dusk, and the
market people had nearly all left.  She had begun to despair, and fears crossed her mind that
Geordie must have been run over and killed; when at last up he came running, almost breathless.
“I’ve gotten the siller for the bonnet, Nell!” cried he.  “Eh Geordie!” she said, “but hoo
hae ye gotten it?”  “Haudin the gentlemen’s horses!” was the exultant reply.  The bonnet was
forthwith bought, and the two returned to Dewley happy.

George’s first regular employment was of a very humble sort.  A widow, named Grace Ainslie,
then occupied the neighbouring farmhouse of Dewley. She kept a number of cows, and had the
privilege of grazing them along the waggon-road.  She needed a boy to herd the cows, to keep
them out of the way of the waggons, and prevent their straying or trespassing on the neighbours’
“liberties;” the boy’s duty was also to bar the gates at night after all the waggons had passed.
George petitioned for this post, and, to his great joy, he was appointed at the wage of twopence
a day.

It was light employment, and he had plenty of spare time on his hands, which he spent in birdnesting,
making whistles out of reeds and scrannel straws, and erecting Lilliputian mills in the little
water-streams that ran into the Dewley bog.  But his favourite amusement at this early age
was erecting clay engines in conjunction with his chosen playmate, Bill Thirlwall.  The place
is still pointed out where the future engineers made their first essays in modelling.  The
boys found the clay for their engines in the adjoining bog, and the hemlocks which grew about
supplied them with imaginary steam-pipes.  They even proceeded to make a miniature winding-machine
in connexion with their engine, and the apparatus was erected upon a bench in front of the
Thirlwalls’ cottage.  The corves were made out of hollowed corks; the ropes were supplied by
twine; and a few bits of wood gleaned from the refuse of the carpenter’s shop completed their
materials.  With this apparatus the boys made a show of sending the corves down the pit and
drawing them up again, much to the marvel of the pitmen.  But some mischievous person about
the place seized the opportunity early one morning of smashing the fragile machinery, much
to the grief of the young engineers.

As Stephenson grew older and abler to work, he was set to lead the horses when ploughing, though
scarce big enough to stride across the furrows; and he used afterwards to say that he rode
to his work in the mornings at an hour when most other children of his age were asleep in their
beds. He was also employed to hoe turnips, and do similar farm-work, for which he was paid
the advanced wage of fourpence a day.  But his highest ambition was to be taken on at the colliery
where his father worked; and he shortly joined his elder brother James there as a “corf-bitter,”
or “picker,” to clear the coal of stones, bats, and dross.  His wages were then advanced to
sixpence a day, and afterwards to eightpence when he was set to drive the gin-horse.

Shortly after, George went to Black Callerton to drive the gin there; and as that colliery
lies about two miles across the fields from Dewley Burn, he walked that distance early in the
morning to his work, returning home late in the evening.  One of the old residents at Black
Callerton, who remembered him at that time, described him to the author as “a grit growing
lad, with bare legs an’ feet;” adding that he was “very quick-witted and full of fun and tricks:
indeed, there was nothing under the sun but he tried to imitate.”  He was usually foremost
also in the sports and pastimes of youth.

Among his first strongly-developed tastes was the love of birds and animals, which he inherited
from his father.  Blackbirds were his special favourites.  The hedges between Dewley and Black
Callerton were capital bird-nesting places; and there was not a nest there that he did not
know of.  When the young birds were old enough, he would bring them home with him, feed them,
and teach them to fly about the cottage unconfined by cages.  One of his blackbirds became
so tame, that, after flying about the doors all day, and in and out of the cottage, it would
take up its roost upon the bed-head at night.  And most singular of all, the bird would disappear
in the spring and summer months, when it was supposed to go into the woods to pair and rear
its young, after which it would reappear at the cottage, and resume its social habits during
the winter. This went on for several years.  George had also a stock of tame rabbits, for which
he built a little house behind the cottage, and for many years he continued to pride himself
upon the superiority of his breed.

After he had driven the gin for some time at Dewley and Black Callerton, he was taken on as
an assistant to his father in firing the engine at Dewley.  This was a step of promotion which
he had anxiously desired, his only fear being lest he should be found too young for the work.
Indeed, he used afterwards to relate how he was wont to hide himself when the owner of the
colliery went round, in case he should be thought too little a boy to earn the wages paid him.
Since he had modelled his clay engines in the bog, his young ambition was to be an engineman;
and to be an assistant fireman was the first step towards this position.  Great therefore was
his joy when, at about fourteen years of age, he was appointed assistant-fireman, at the wage
of a shilling a day.

But the coal at Dewley Burn being at length worked out, the pit was ordered to be “laid in,”
and old Robert and his family were again under the necessity of shifting their home; for, to
use the common phrase, they must “follow the wark.”  They removed accordingly to a place called
Jolly’s Close, a few miles to the south, close behind the village of Newburn, where another
coal-mine belonging to the Duke of Northumberland, called “the Duke’s Winnin,” had recently
been opened out.

                      [Picture: Newburn on the Tyne]

One of the old persons in the neighbourhood, who knew the family well, describes the dwelling
in which they lived as a poor cottage of only one room, in which the father, mother, four sons,
and two daughters, lived and slept.  It was crowded with three low-poled beds.  The one apartment
served for parlour, kitchen, sleeping-room, and all.

The children of the Stephenson family were now growing apace, and several of them were old
enough to be able to earn money at various kinds of colliery work.  James and George, the two
eldest sons, worked as assistant-firemen; and the younger boys worked as wheelers or pickers
on the bank-tops.  The two girls helped their mother with the household work.

Other workings of the coal were opened out in the neighbourhood; and to one of these George
was removed as fireman on his own account.  This was called the “Mid Mill Winnin,” where he
had for his mate a young man named Coe.  They worked together there for about two years, by
twelve-hour shifts, George firing the engine at the wage of a shilling a day.  He was now fifteen
years old.  His ambition was as yet limited to attaining the standing of a full workman, at
a man’s wages; and with that view he endeavoured to attain such a knowledge of his engine as
would eventually lead to his employment as an engineman, with its accompanying advantage of
higher pay.  He was a steady, sober, hard-working young man, but nothing more in the estimation
of his fellow-workmen.

One of his favourite pastimes in by-hours was trying feats of strength with his companions.
Although in frame he was not particularly robust, yet he was big and bony, and considered very
strong for his age.  At throwing the hammer George had no compeer.  At lifting heavy weights
off the ground from between his feet, by means of a bar of iron passed through them—placing
the bar against his knees as a fulcrum, and then straightening his spine and lifting them sheer
up—he was also very successful.  On one occasion he lifted as much as sixty stones weight—a
striking indication of his strength of bone and muscle.

When the pit at Mid Mill was closed, George and his companion Coe were sent to work another
pumping-engine erected near Throckley Bridge, where they continued for some months.  It was
while working at this place that his wages were raised to 12s. a week—an event to him of great
importance. On coming out of the foreman’s office that Saturday evening on which he received
the advance, he announced the fact to his fellow-workmen, adding triumphantly “I am now a made
man for life!”

The pit opened at Newburn, at which old Robert Stephenson worked, proving a failure, it was
closed; and a new pit was sunk at Water-row, on a strip of land lying between the Wylam waggon-way
and the river Tyne, about half a mile west of Newburn Church.  A pumping engine was erected
there by Robert Hawthorn, the Duke’s engineer; and old Stephenson went to work it as fireman,
his son George acting as the engineman or plugman.  At that time he was about seventeen years
old—a very youthful age at which to fill so responsible a post.  He had thus already got ahead
of his father in his station as a workman; for the plugman holds a higher grade than the fireman,
requiring more practical knowledge and skill, and usually receiving higher wages.

George’s duty as plugman was to watch the engine, to see that it kept well in work, and that
the pumps were efficient in drawing the water. When the water-level in the pit was lowered,
and the suction became incomplete through the exposure of the suction-holes, it was then his
duty to proceed to the bottom of the shaft and plug the tube so that the pump should draw:
hence the designation of “plugman.”  If a stoppage in the engine took place through any defect
which he was incapable of remedying, it was for him to call in the aid of the chief engineer
to set it to rights.

But from the time when George Stephenson was appointed fireman, and more particularly afterwards
as engineman, he applied himself so assiduously and so successfully to the study of the engine
and its gearing—taking the machine to pieces in his leisure hours for the purpose of cleaning
and understanding its various parts—that he soon acquired a thorough practical knowledge of
its construction and mode of working, and very rarely needed to call the engineer of the colliery
to his aid.  His engine became a sort of pet with him, and he was never wearied of watching
and inspecting it with admiration.

Though eighteen years old, like many of his fellow-workmen, Stephenson had not yet learnt to
read.  All that he could do was to get some one to read for him by his engine fire, out of
any book or stray newspaper which found its way into the neighbourhood.  Buonaparte was then
overrunning Italy, and astounding Europe by his brilliant succession of victories; and there
was no more eager auditor of his exploits, as read from the newspaper accounts, than the young
engineman at the Water-row Pit.

There were also numerous stray bits of information and intelligence contained in these papers,
which excited Stephenson’s interest.  One of these related to the Egyptian method of hatching
birds’ eggs by means of artificial heat.  Curious about everything relating to birds, he determined
to test it by experiment.  It was spring time, and he forthwith went a birdnesting in the adjoining
woods and hedges.  He gathered a collection of eggs of various sorts, set them in flour in
a warm place in the engine-house, covering the whole with wool, and then waited the issue.
The heat was kept as steady as possible, and the eggs were carefully turned every twelve hours,
but though they chipped, and some of them exhibited well-grown chicks, they never hatched.
The experiment failed, but the incident shows that the inquiring mind of the youth was fairly
at work.

Modelling of engines in clay continued to be another of his favourite occupations.  He made
models of engines which he had seen, and of others which were described to him.  These attempts
were an improvement upon his first trials at Dewley Burn bog, when occupied there as a herd-boy.
He was, however, anxious to know something of the wonderful engines of Boulton and Watt, and
was told that they were to be found fully described in books, which he must search for information
as to their construction, action and uses.  But, alas! Stephenson could not read; he had not
yet learnt even his letters.

Thus he shortly found, when gazing wistfully in the direction of knowledge, that to advance
further as a skilled workman, he must master this wonderful art of reading—the key to so many
other arts.  Only thus could he gain an access to books, the depositories of the wisdom and
experience of the past.  Although a grown man, and doing the work of a man, he was not ashamed
to confess his ignorance, and go to school, big as he was, to learn his letters.  Perhaps,
too, he foresaw that, in laying out a little of his spare earnings for this purpose, he was
investing money judiciously, and that, in every hour he spent at school, he was really working
for better wages.

His first schoolmaster was Robin Cowens, a poor teacher in the village of Walbottle.  He kept
a night-school, which was attended by a few of the colliers and labourers’ sons in the neighbourhood.
George took lessons in spelling and reading three nights in the week.  Robin Cowen’s teaching
cost threepence a week; and though it was not very good, yet George, being hungry for knowledge
and eager to acquire it, soon learnt to read. He also practised “pothooks,” and at the age
of nineteen he was proud to be able to write his own name.

A Scotch dominie, named Andrew Robertson, set up a night-school in the village of Newburn,
in the winter of 1799.  It was more convenient for George to attend this school, as it was
nearer to his work, and only a few minutes’ walk from Jolly’s Close.  Besides, Andrew had the
reputation of being a skilled arithmetician; and this branch of knowledge Stephenson was very
desirous of acquiring.  He accordingly began taking lessons from him, paying fourpence a week.
Robert Gray, the junior fireman at the Water-row Pit, began arithmetic at the same time; and
Gray afterwards told the author that George learnt “figuring” so much faster than he did, that
he could not make out how it was—“he took to figures so wonderful.” Although the two started
together from the same point, at the end of the winter George had mastered “reduction,” while
Robert Gray was still struggling with the difficulties of simple division.  But George’s secret
was his perseverance.  He worked out the sums in his bye-hours, improving every minute of his
spare time by the engine-fire, and studying there the arithmetical problems set for him upon
his slate by the master.  In the evenings he took to Robertson the sums which he had “worked,”
and new ones were “set” for him to study out the following day.  Thus his progress was rapid,
and, with a willing heart and mind, he soon became well advanced in arithmetic.  Indeed, Andrew
Robertson became very proud of his scholar; and shortly after, when the Water-row Pit was closed,
and George removed to Black Callerton to work there, the poor schoolmaster, not having a very
extensive connexion in Newburn, went with his pupils, and set up his night-school at Black
Callerton, where he continued his lessons.

George still found time to attend to his favourite animals while working at the Water-row Pit.
Like his father, he used to tempt the robin-redbreasts to hop and fly about him at the engine-fire,
by the bait of bread-crumbs saved from his dinner.  But his chief favourite was his dog—so
sagacious that he almost daily carried George’s dinner to him at the pit.  The tin containing
the meal was suspended from the dog’s neck, and, thus laden, he proceeded faithfully from Jolly’s
Close to Water-row Pit, quite through the village of Newburn.  He turned neither to left nor
right, nor heeded the barking of curs at his heels.  But his course was not unattended with
perils.  One day the big strange dog of a passing butcher espying the engineman’s messenger
with the tin can about his neck, ran after and fell upon him.  There was a terrible tussle
and worrying, which lasted for a brief while, and, shortly after, the dog’s master, anxious
for his dinner, saw his faithful servant approaching, bleeding but triumphant.  The tin can
was still round his neck, but the dinner had been spilt in the struggle.  Though George went
without his dinner that day, he was prouder of his dog than ever when the circumstances of
the combat were related to him by the villagers who had seen it.

It was while working at the Water-row Pit that Stephenson learnt the art of brakeing an engine.
This being one of the higher departments of colliery labour, and among the best paid, George
was very anxious to learn it.  A small winding-engine having been put up for the purpose of
drawing the coals from the pit, Bill Coe, his friend and fellow-workman, was appointed the
brakesman.  He frequently allowed George to try his hand at the machine, and instructed him
how to proceed.  Coe was, however, opposed in this by several of the other workmen—one of whom,
a banksman named William Locke, {26} went so far as to stop the working of the pit because
Stephenson had been called in to the brake.  But one day as Mr. Charles Nixon, the manager
of the pit, was observed approaching, Coe adopted an expedient which put a stop to the opposition.
He called upon Stephenson to “come into the brake-house, and take hold of the machine.”  Locke,
as usual, sat down, and the working of the pit was stopped.  When requested by the manager
to give an explanation, he said that “young Stephenson couldn’t brake, and, what was more,
never would learn, he was so clumsy.”  Mr. Nixon, however, ordered Locke to go on with the
work, which he did; and Stephenson, after some further practice, acquired the art of brakeing.

After working at the Water-row Pit and at other engines near Newburn for about three years,
George and Coe went to Black Callerton early in 1801. Though only twenty years of age, his
employers thought so well of him that they appointed him to the responsible office of brakesman
at the Dolly Pit.  For convenience’ sake, he took lodgings at a small farmer’s in the village,
finding his own victuals, and paying so much a week for lodging and attendance.  In the locality
this was called “picklin in his awn poke neuk.”  It not unfrequently happens that the young
workman about the collieries, when selecting a lodging, contrives to pitch his tent where the
daughter of the house ultimately becomes his wife.  This is often the real attraction that
draws the youth from home, though a very different one may be pretended.

George Stephenson’s duties as brakesman may be briefly described.  The work was somewhat monotonous,
and consisted in superintending the working of the engine and machinery by means of which the
coals were drawn out of the pit.  Brakesman are almost invariably selected from those who have
had considerable experience as engine-firemen, and borne a good character for steadiness, punctuality,
watchfulness, and “mother wit.”  In George Stephenson’s day the coals were drawn out of the
pit in corves, or large baskets made of hazel rods.  The corves were placed together in a cage,
between which and the pit-ropes there was usually from fifteen to twenty feet of chain.  The
approach of the corves towards the pit mouth was signalled by a bell, brought into action by
a piece of mechanism worked from the shaft of the engine.  When the bell sounded, the brakesman
checked the speed, by taking hold of the hand-gear connected with the steam-valves, which were
so arranged that by their means he could regulate the speed of the engine, and stop or set
it in motion when required.  Connected with the fly-wheel was a powerful wooden brake, acting
by pressure against its rim, something like the brake of a railway-carriage against its wheels.
On catching sight of the chain attached to the ascending corve-cage, the brakesman, by pressing
his foot upon a foot-step near him, was enabled, with great precision, to stop the revolutions
of the wheel, and arrest the ascent of the corves at the pit mouth, when they were forthwith
landed on the “settle board.”  On the full corves being replaced by empty ones, it was then
the duty of the brakesman to reverse the engine, and send the corves down the pit to be filled
again.

The monotony of George Stephenson’s occupation as a brakesman was somewhat varied by the change
which he made, in his turn, from the day to the night shift.  His duty, on the latter occasions,
consisted chiefly in sending men and materials into the mine, and in drawing other men and
materials out.  Most of the workmen enter the pit during the night shift, and leave it in the
latter part of the day, whilst coal-drawing is proceeding.  The requirements of the work at
night are such, that the brakesman has a good deal of spare time on his hands, which he is
at liberty to employ in his own way.  From an early period, George was accustomed to employ
those vacant night hours in working the sums set for him by Andrew Robertson upon his slate,
practising writing in his copy-book, and mending the shoes of his fellow-workmen.  His wages
while working at the Dolly Pit amounted to from £1 15s. to £2 in the fortnight; but he gradually
added to them as he became more expert at shoe-mending, and afterwards at shoe-making.

Probably he was stimulated to take in hand this extra work by the attachment he had by this
time formed for a young woman named Fanny Henderson, who officiated as servant in the small
farmer’s house in which he lodged.  We have been informed that the personal attractions of
Fanny, though these were considerable, were the least of her charms.  Mr. William Fairbairn,
who afterwards saw her in her home at Willington Quay, describes her as a very comely woman.
But her temper was one of the sweetest; and those who knew her were accustomed to speak of
the charming modesty of her demeanour, her kindness of disposition, and withal her sound good
sense.

Amongst his various mendings of old shoes at Callerton.  George was on one occasion favoured
with the shoes of his sweetheart to sole.  One can imagine the pleasure with which he would
linger over such a piece of work, and the pride with which he would execute it.  A friend of
his, still living, relates that, after he had finished the shoes, he carried them about with
him in his pocket on the Sunday afternoon, and that from time to time he would pull them out
and hold them up, exclaiming, “what a capital job he had made of them!”

Out of his earnings by shoe-mending at Callerton, George contrived to save his first guinea.
The first guinea saved by a working man is no trivial thing.  If, as in Stephenson’s case,
it has been the result of prudent self-denial, of extra labour at bye-hours, and of the honest
resolution to save and economise for worthy purposes, the first guinea saved is an earnest
of better things.  When Stephenson had saved this guinea he was not a little elated at the
achievement, and expressed the opinion to a friend, who many years after reminded him of it,
that he was “now a rich man.”

Not long after he began to work at Black Callerton as brakesman, he had a quarrel with a pitman
named Ned Nelson, a roistering bully, who was the terror of the village.  Nelson was a great
fighter; and it was therefore considered dangerous to quarrel with him.  Stephenson was so
unfortunate as not to be able to please this pitman by the way in which he drew him out of
the pit; and Nelson swore at him grossly because of the alleged clumsiness of his brakeing.
George defended himself, and appealed to the testimony of the other workmen.  But Nelson had
not been accustomed to George’s style of self-assertion; and, after a great deal of abuse,
he threatened to kick the brakesman, who defied him to do so.  Nelson ended by challenging
Stephenson to a pitched battle; and the latter accepted the challenge, when a day was fixed
on which the fight was to come off.

Great was the excitement at Black Callerton when it was known that George Stephenson had accepted
Nelson’s challenge.  Everybody said he would be killed.  The villagers, the young men, and
especially the boys of the place, with whom George was a great favourite, all wished that he
might beat Nelson, but they scarcely dared to say so.  They came about him while he was at
work in the engine-house to inquire if it was really true that he was “goin to fight Nelson?”
“Ay; never fear for me; I’ll fight him.”  And fight him he did.  For some days previous to
the appointed day of battle, Nelson went entirely off work for the purpose of keeping himself
fresh and strong, whereas Stephenson went on doing his daily work as usual, and appeared not
in the least disconcerted by the prospect of the affair.  So, on the evening appointed, after
George had done his day’s labour, he went into the Dolly Pit Field, where his already exulting
rival was ready to meet him.  George stripped, and “went in” like a practised pugilist—though
it was his first and last fight.  After a few rounds, George’s wiry muscles and practised strength
enabled him severely to punish his adversary, and to secure an easy victory.

This circumstance is related in illustration of Stephenson’s personal pluck and courage; and
it was thoroughly characteristic of the man.  He was no pugilist, and the very reverse of quarrelsome.
But he would not be put down by the bully of the colliery, and he fought him.  There his pugilism
ended; they afterwards shook hands, and continued good friends. In after life, Stephenson’s
mettle was often as hardly tried, though in a different way; and he did not fail to exhibit
the same resolute courage in contending with the bullies of the railway world, as he showed
in his encounter with Ned Nelson, the fighting pitman of Callerton.

                       [Picture: Colliery Whimsey]

            [Picture: Stephenson’s Cottage at Wallington Quay]

CHAPTER III. ENGINEMAN AT WILLINGTON QUAY AND KILLINGWORTH.

George Stephenson had now acquired the character of an expert workman. He was diligent and
observant while at work, and sober and studious when the day’s work was over.  His friend Coe
described him to the author as “a standing example of manly character.”  On pay-Saturday afternoons,
when the pitmen held their fortnightly holiday, occupying themselves chiefly in cock-fighting
and dog-fighting in the adjoining fields, followed by adjournments to the “yel-house,” George
was accustomed to take his engine to pieces, for the purpose of obtaining “insight,” and he
cleaned all the parts and put the machine in thorough working order before leaving it.

In the evenings he improved himself in the arts of reading and writing, and occasionally took
a turn at modelling.  It was at Callerton, his son Robert informed us, that he began to try
his hand at original invention; and for some time he applied his attention to a machine of
the nature of an engine-brake, which reversed itself by its own action.  But nothing came of
the contrivance, and it was eventually thrown aside as useless. Yet not altogether so; for
even the highest skill must undergo the inevitable discipline of experiment, and submit to
the wholesome correction of occasional failure.

After working at Callerton for about two years, he received an offer to take charge of the
engine on Willington Ballast Hill at an advanced wage. He determined to accept it, and at the
same time to marry Fanny Henderson, and begin housekeeping on his own account.  Though he was
only twenty-one years old, he had contrived, by thrift, steadiness, and industry, to save as
much money as enabled him to take a cottage-dwelling at Willington Quay, and furnish it in
a humble but comfortable style for the reception of his bride.

Willington Quay lies on the north bank of the Tyne, about six miles below Newcastle.  It consists
of a line of houses straggling along the river-side; and high behind it towers up the huge
mound of ballast emptied out of the ships which resort to the quay for their cargoes of coal
for the London market.  The ballast is thrown out of the ships’ holds into waggons laid alongside,
which are run up to the summit of the Ballast Hill, and emptied out there.  At the foot of
the great mound of shot rubbish was the fixed engine of which George Stephenson acted as brakesman.

The cottage in which he took up his abode was a small two-storied dwelling, standing a little
back from the quay with a bit of garden ground in front. {33}  The Stephenson family occupied
the upper room in the west end of the cottage.  Close behind rose the Ballast Hill.

When the cottage dwelling had been made snug, and was ready for occupation, the marriage took
place.  It was celebrated in Newburn Church, on the 28th of November, 1802.  After the ceremony,
George, with his newly-wedded wife, proceeded to the house of his father at Jolly’s Close.
The old man was now becoming infirm, and, though he still worked as an engine-fireman, contrived
with difficulty “to keep his head above water.”  When the visit had been paid, the bridal party
set out for their new home at Willington Quay, whither they went in a manner quite common before
travelling by railway came into use.  Two farm horses, borrowed from a neighbouring farmer,
were each provided with a saddle and pillion, and George having mounted one, his wife seated
herself behind him, holding on by his waist.  The bridesman and bridesmaid in like manner mounted
the other horse; and in this wise the wedding party rode across the country, passing through
the old streets of Newcastle, and then by Wallsend to Willington Quay—a ride of about fifteen
miles.

George Stephenson’s daily life at Willington was that of a steady workman.  By the manner,
however, in which he continued to improve his spare hours in the evening, he was silently and
surely paving the way for being something more than a manual labourer.  He set himself to study
diligently the principles of mechanics, and to master the laws by which his engine worked.
For a workman, he was even at that time more than ordinarily speculative—often taking up strange
theories, and trying to sift out the truth that was in them.  While sitting by his wife’s side
in his cottage-dwelling in the winter evenings, he was usually occupied in studying mechanical
subjects, or in modelling experimental machines. Amongst his various speculations while at
Willington, he tried to discover a means of Perpetual Motion.  Although he failed, as so many
others had done before him, the very efforts he made tended to whet his inventive faculties,
and to call forth his dormant powers.  He went so far as to construct the model of a machine
for the purpose.  It consisted of a wooden wheel, the periphery of which was furnished with
glass tubes filled with quicksilver; as the wheel rotated, the quicksilver poured itself down
into the lower tubes, and thus a sort of self-acting motion was kept up in the apparatus, which,
however, did not prove to be perpetual.  Where he had first obtained the idea of this machine—whether
from conversation or reading, is not known; but his son Robert was of opinion that he had heard
of the apparatus of this kind described in the “History of Inventions.”  As he had then no
access to books, and indeed could barely read with ease, it is probable that he had been told
of the contrivance, and set about testing its value according to his own methods.

Much of his spare time continued to be occupied by labour more immediately profitable, regarded
in a pecuniary point of view.  In the evenings, after his day’s labour at his engine, he would
occasionally employ himself for an hour or two in casting ballast out of the collier ships,
by which means he was enabled to earn a few extra shillings weekly.  Mr. William Fairbairn
of Manchester has informed us that while Stephenson was employed at Willington, he himself
was working in the neighbourhood as an engine apprentice at the Percy Main Colliery.  He was
very fond of George, who was a fine, hearty fellow, besides being a capital workman.  In the
summer evenings young Fairbairn was accustomed to go down to the Quay to see his friend, and
on such occasions he would frequently take charge of George’s engine while he took a turn at
heaving ballast out of the ships’ holds.  It is pleasant to think of the future President of
the British Association thus helping the future Railway Engineer to earn a few extra shillings
by overwork in the evenings, at a time when both occupied the rank of humble working men in
an obscure northern village.

Mr. Fairbairn was also a frequent visitor at George’s cottage on the Quay, where, though there
was no luxury, there was comfort, cleanliness, and a pervading spirit of industry.  Even at
home George was never for a moment idle.  When there was no ballast to heave out at the Quay
he took in shoes to mend; and from mending he proceeded to making them, as well as shoe-lasts,
in which he was admitted to be very expert.

But an accident occurred in Stephenson’s household about this time, which had the effect of
directing his industry into a new and still more profitable channel.  The cottage chimney took
fire one day in his absence, when the alarmed neighbours, rushing in, threw quantities of water
upon the flames; and some, in their zeal, even mounted the ridge of the house, and poured buckets
of water down the chimney.  The fire was soon put out, but the house was thoroughly soaked.
When George came home he found everything in disorder, and his new furniture covered with soot.
The eight-day clock, which hung against the wall—one of the most highly-prized articles in
the house—was much damaged by the steam with which the room had been filled; and its wheels
were so clogged by the dust and soot that it was brought to a complete standstill.  George
was always ready to turn his hand to anything, and his ingenuity, never at fault, immediately
set to work to repair the unfortunate clock.  He was advised to send it to the clockmaker,
but that would cost money; and he declared that he would repair it himself—at least he would
try.  The clock was accordingly taken to pieces and cleaned; the tools which he had been accumulating
for the purpose of constructing his Perpetual Motion machine, enabled him to do this readily;
and he succeeded so well that, shortly after, the neighbours sent him their clocks to clean,
and he soon became one of the most famous clock-doctors in the neighbourhood.

It was while living at Willington Quay that George Stephenson’s only son was born, on the 16th
of October, 1803.  The child was a great favourite with his father, and added much to the happiness
of his evening hours. George’s “philoprogenitiveness,” as phrenologists call it, had been exercised
hitherto upon birds, dogs, rabbits, and even the poor old gin-horses which he had driven at
the Callerton Pit; but in his boy he now found a much more genial object for the exercise of
his affection.

The christening took place in the school-house at Wallsend, the old parish church being at
the time in so dilapidated a condition from the “creeping” or subsidence of the ground, consequent
upon the excavation of the coal, that it was considered dangerous to enter it.  On this occasion,
Robert Gray and Anne Henderson, who had officiated as bridesman and bridesmaid at the wedding,
came over again to Willington, and stood godfather and godmother to little Robert,—so named
after his grandfather.

After working for several years more as a brakesman at the Willington machine, George Stephenson
was induced to leave his situation there for a similar one at the West Moor Colliery, Killingworth.
It was not without considerable persuasion that he was induced to leave the Quay, as he knew
that he should thereby give up the chance of earning extra money by casting ballast from the
keels.  At last, however, he consented, in the hope of making up the loss in some other way.

The village of Killingworth lies about seven miles north of Newcastle, and is one of the best-known
collieries in that neighbourhood.  The workings of the coal are of vast extent, and give employment
to a large number of work-people.  To this place Stephenson first came as a brakesman about
the beginning of 1805.  He had not been long in his new place, ere his wife died (in 1806),
shortly after giving birth to a daughter, who survived the mother only a few months.  George
deeply felt the loss of his wife, for they had been very happy together.  Their lot had been
sweetened by daily successful toil.  The husband was sober and hard-working, and his wife made
his hearth so bright and his home so snug, that no attraction could draw him from her side
in the evening hours.  But this domestic happiness was all to pass away; and George felt as
one that had thenceforth to tread the journey of life alone.

                      [Picture: West Moor Colliery]

Shortly after this event, while his grief was still fresh, he received an invitation from some
gentlemen concerned in large spinning works near Montrose in Scotland, to proceed thither and
superintend the working of one of Boulton and Watt’s engines.  He accepted the offer, and made
arrangements to leave Killingworth for a time.

Having left his little boy in good keeping, he set out upon his long journey to Scotland on
foot, with his kit upon his back.  While working at Montrose he gave a striking proof of that
practical ability in contrivance for which he was afterwards so distinguished.  It appears
that the water required for the purposes of his engine, as well as for the use of the works,
was pumped from a considerable depth, being supplied from the adjacent extensive sand strata.
The pumps frequently got choked by the sand drawn in at the bottom of the well through the
snore-holes, or apertures through which the water to be raised is admitted.  The barrels soon
became worn, and the bucket and clack leathers destroyed, so that it became necessary to devise
a remedy; and with this object the engineman proceeded to adopt the following simple but original
expedient.  He had a wooden box or boot made, twelve feet high, which he placed in the sump
or well, and into this he inserted the lower end of the pump.  The result was, that the water
flowed clear from the outer part of the well over into the boot, and being drawn up without
any admixture of sand, the difficulty was thus conquered. {38}

Being paid good wages, Stephenson contrived, during the year he worked at Montrose, to save
a sum of £28, which he took back with him to Killingworth.  Longing to get back to his kindred,
his heart yearning for the son whom he had left behind, our engineman took leave of his employers,
and trudged back to Northumberland on foot as he had gone. While on his journey southward he
arrived late one evening, footsore and wearied, at the door of a small farmer’s cottage, at
which he knocked, and requested shelter for the night.  It was refused, and then he entreated
that, being tired, and unable to proceed further, the farmer would permit him to lie down in
the outhouse, for that a little clean straw would serve him.  The farmer’s wife appeared at
the door, looked at the traveller, then retiring with her husband, the two confabulated a little
apart, and finally they invited Stephenson into the cottage. Always full of conversation and
anecdote, he soon made himself at home in the farmer’s family, and spent with them a few pleasant
hours.  He was hospitably entertained for the night, and when he left the cottage in the morning,
he pressed them to make some charge for his lodging, but they refused to accept any recompense.
They only asked him to remember them kindly, and if he ever came that way, to be sure and call
again.  Many years after, when Stephenson had become a thriving man, he did not forget the
humble pair who had succoured and entertained him on his way; he sought their cottage again,
when age had silvered their hair; and when he left the aged couple, they may have been reminded
of the old saying that we may sometimes “entertain angels unawares.”

Reaching home, Stephenson found that his father had met with a serious accident at the Blucher
Pit, which had reduced him to great distress and poverty.  While engaged in the inside of an
engine, making some repairs, a fellow-workman accidentally let in the steam upon him.  The
blast struck him full in the face; he was terribly scorched, and his eyesight was irretrievably
lost.  The helpless and infirm man had struggled for a time with poverty; his sons who were
at home, poor as himself, were little able to help him, while George was at a distance in Scotland.
On his return, however, with his savings in his pocket, his first step was to pay off his father’s
debts, amounting to about £15; and shortly after he removed the aged pair from Jolly’s Close
to a comfortable cottage adjoining the tramroad near the West Moor at Killingworth, where the
old man lived for many years, supported entirely by his son.

Stephenson was again taken on as a brakesman at the West Moor Pit.  He does not seem to have
been very hopeful as to his prospects in life about this time (1807–8).  Indeed the condition
of the working class generally was very discouraging.  England was engaged in a great war,
which pressed upon the industry, and severely tried the resources, of the country. There was
a constant demand for men to fill the army.  The working people were also liable to be pressed
for the navy, or drawn for the militia; and though they could not fail to be discontented under
such circumstances, they scarcely dared even to mutter their discontent to their neighbours.

Stephenson was drawn for the militia: he must therefore either quit his work and go a-soldiering,
or find a substitute.  He adopted the latter course, and borrowed £6, which, with the remainder
of his savings, enabled him to provide a militiaman to serve in his stead.  Thus the whole
of his hard-won earnings were swept away at a stroke.  He was almost in despair, and contemplated
the idea of leaving the country, and emigrating to the United States.  Although a voyage thither
was then a much more formidable thing for a working man to accomplish than a voyage to Australia
is now, he seriously entertained the project, and had all but made up his mind to go.  His
sister Ann, with her husband, emigrated about that time, but George could not raise the requisite
money, and they departed without him.  After all, it went sore against his heart to leave his
home and his kindred, the scenes of his youth and the friends of his boyhood; and he struggled
long with the idea, brooding over it in sorrow. Speaking afterwards to a friend of his thoughts
at the time, he said: “You know the road from my house at the West Moor to Killingworth.  I
remember once when I went along that road I wept bitterly, for I knew not where my lot in life
would be cast.”

In 1808, Stephenson, with two other brakesmen, took a small contract under the colliery lessees
for brakeing the engines at the West Moor Pit. The brakesmen found the oil and tallow; they
divided the work amongst them, and were paid so much per score for their labour.  It was the
interest of the brakesmen to economise the working as much as possible, and George no sooner
entered upon the contract than he proceeded to devise ways and means of making it “pay.”  He
observed that the ropes which, at other pits in the neighbourhood, lasted about three months,
at the West Moor Pit became worn out in about a month.  He immediately set about ascertaining
the cause of the defect; and finding it to be occasioned by excessive friction, he proceeded,
with the sanction of the head engine-wright and the colliery owners, to shift the pulley-wheels
and re-arrange the gearing, which had the effect of greatly diminishing the tear and wear,
besides allowing the work of the colliery to proceed without interruption.

About the same time he attempted an improvement in the winding-engine which he worked, by placing
a valve between the air-pump and condenser. This expedient, although it led to no practical
result, showed that his mind was actively engaged in studying new mechanical adaptations. 
It continued to be his regular habit, on Saturdays, to take his engine to pieces, for the purpose,
at the same time, of familiarising himself with its action, and of placing it in a state of
thorough working order.  By mastering its details, he was enabled, as opportunity occurred,
to turn to practical account the knowledge he thus diligently and patiently acquired.

Such an opportunity was not long in presenting itself.  In the year 1810, a new pit was sunk
by the “Grand Allies” (the lessees of the mines) at the village of Killingworth, now known
as the Killingworth High Pit.  An atmospheric or Newcomen engine, made by Smeaton, was fixed
there for the purpose of pumping out the water from the shaft; but somehow it failed to clear
the pit.  As one of the workmen has since described the circumstance—“She couldn’t keep her
jack-head in water: all the enginemen in the neighbourhood were tried, as well as Crowther
of the Ouseburn, but they were clean bet.”  The engine had been fruitlessly pumping for nearly
twelve months, and began to be spoken of as a total failure.  Stephenson had gone to look at
it when in course of erection, and then observed to the over-man that he thought it was defective;
he also gave it as his opinion that, if there were much water in the mine, the engine would
never keep it under.  Of course, as he was only a brakesman, his opinion was considered to
be worth very little on such a point.  He continued, however, to make frequent visits to the
engine, to see “how she was getting on.”  From the bank-head where he worked his brake he could
see the chimney smoking at the High Pit; and as the men were passing to and from their work,
he would call out and inquire “if they had gotten to the bottom yet?”  And the reply was always
to the same effect—the pumping made no progress, and the workmen were still “drowned out.”

One Saturday afternoon he went over to the High Pit to examine the engine more carefully than
he had yet done.  He had been turning the subject over thoughtfully in his mind; and seemed
to have satisfied himself as to the cause of the failure.  Kit Heppel, one of the sinkers,
asked him, “Weel, George, what do you mak’ o’ her?  Do you think you could do anything to improve
her?”  Said George, “I could alter her, man, and make her draw: in a week’s time I could send
you to the bottom.”

Forthwith Heppel reported this conversation to Ralph Dodds, the head viewer, who, being now
quite in despair, and hopeless of succeeding with the engine, determined to give George’s skill
a trial.  At the worst he could only fail, as the rest had done.  In the evening, Dodds went
in search of Stephenson, and met him on the road, dressed in his Sunday’s suit, on the way
to “the preaching” in the Methodist Chapel, which he attended.  “Well, George,” said Dodds,
“they tell me that you think you can put the engine at the High Pit to rights.”  “Yes, sir,”
said George. “I think I could.”  “If that’s the case, I’ll give you a fair trial, and you must
set to work immediately.  We are clean drowned out, and cannot get a stop further.  The engineers
hereabouts are all bet; and if you really succeed in accomplishing what they cannot do, you
may depend upon it I will make you a man for life.”

Stephenson began his operations early next morning.  The only condition that he made, before
setting to work, was that he should select his own workmen.  There was, as he knew, a good
deal of jealousy amongst the “regular” men that a colliery brakesman should pretend to know
more about their engine than they themselves did, and attempt to remedy defects which the most
skilled men of their craft, including the engineer of the colliery, had failed to do.  But
George made the condition a sine quâ non.  “The workmen,” said he, “must either be all Whigs
or all Tories.” There was no help for it, so Dodds ordered the old hands to stand aside. The
men grumbled, but gave way; and then George and his party went in.

The engine was taken entirely to pieces.  The cistern containing the injection water was raised
ten feet; the injection cock, being too small, was enlarged to nearly double its former size,
and it was so arranged that it should be shut off quickly at the beginning of the stroke. 
These and other alterations were necessarily performed in a rough way, but, as the result proved,
on true principles.  Stephenson also, finding that the boiler would bear a greater pressure
than five pounds to the inch, determined to work it at a pressure of ten pounds, though this
was contrary to the directions of both Newcomen and Smeaton.  The necessary alterations were
made in about three days, and many persons came to see the engine start, including the men
who had put her up.  The pit being nearly full of water, she had little to do on starting,
and, to use George’s words, “came bounce into the house.”  Dodds exclaimed, “Why, she was better
as she was; now, she will knock the house down.”  After a short time, however, the engine got
fairly to work, and by ten o’clock that night the water was lower in the pit than it had ever
been before. It was kept pumping all Thursday, and by the Friday afternoon the pit was cleared
of water, and the workmen were “sent to the bottom,” as Stephenson had promised.  Thus the
alterations effected in the pumping apparatus proved completely successful.

Dodds was particularly gratified with the manner in which the job had been done, and he made
Stephenson a present of ten pounds, which, though very inadequate when compared with the value
of the work performed, was accepted with gratitude.  George was proud of the gift as the first
marked recognition of his skill as a workman; and he used afterwards to say that it was the
biggest sum of money he had up to that time earned in one lump.  Ralph Dodds, however, did
more than this.  He released the brakesman from the handles of his engine at West Moot, and
appointed him engineman at the High Pit, at good wages, during the time the pit was sinking,—the
job lasting for about a year; and he also kept him in mind for further advancement.

Stephenson’s skill as an engine-doctor soon became noised abroad, and he was called upon to
prescribe remedies for all the old, wheezy, and ineffective pumping-machines in the neighbourhood.
In this capacity he soon left the “regular” men far behind, though they in their turn were
very mach disposed to treat the Killingworth brakesman as no better than a quack.  Nevertheless,
his practice was really founded upon a close study of the principles of mechanics, and on an
intimate practical acquaintance with the details of the pumping-engine.

Another of his smaller achievements in the same line is still told by the people of the district.
At the corner of the road leading to Long Benton, there was a quarry from which a peculiar
and scarce kind of ochre was taken.  In the course of working it out, the water had collected
in considerable quantities; and there being no means of draining it off, it accumulated to
such an extent that the further working of the ochre was almost entirely stopped.  Ordinary
pumps were tried, and failed; and then a windmill was tried, and failed too.  On this, George
was asked what ought to be done to clear the quarry of the water.  He said, “he would set up
for them an engine little bigger than a kail-pot, that would clear them out in a week.”  And
he did so.  A little engine was speedily erected, by means of which the quarry was pumped dry
in the course of a few days.  Thus his skill as a pump-doctor soon became the marvel of the
district.

In elastic muscular vigour, Stephenson was now in his prime, and he still continued to be zealous
in measuring his strength and agility with his fellow workmen.  The competitive element in
his nature was always strong; and his success in these feats of rivalry was certainly remarkable.
Few, if any, could lift such weights, throw the hammer and putt the stone so far, or cover
so great a space at a standing or running leap.  One day, between the engine hour and the rope-rolling
hour, Kit Heppel challenged him to leap from one high wall to another, with a deep gap between.
To Heppel’s surprise and dismay, George took the standing leap, and cleared the eleven feet
at a bound.  Had his eye been less accurate, or his limbs less agile and sure, the feat must
have cost him his life.

But so full of redundant muscular vigour was he, that leaping, putting, or throwing the hammer
were not enough for him.  He was also ambitious of riding on horseback, and, as he had not
yet been promoted to an office enabling him to keep a horse of his own, he sometimes borrowed
one of the gin-horses for a ride.  On one of these occasions, he brought the animal back reeking;
when Tommy Mitcheson, the bank horse-keeper, a rough-spoken fellow, exclaimed to him: “Set
such fellows as you on horseback, and you’ll soon ride to the De’il.”  But Tommy Mitcheson
lived to tell the joke, and to confess that, after all, there had been a better issue to George’s
horsemanship than that which he predicted.

Old Cree, the engine-wright at Killingworth High Pit, having been killed by an accident, George
Stephenson was, in 1812, appointed engine-wright of the colliery at the salary of £100 a year.
He was also allowed the use of a galloway to ride upon in his visits of inspection to the collieries
leased by the “Grand Allies” in that neighbourhood.  The “Grand Allies” were a company of gentlemen,
consisting of Sir Thomas Liddell (afterwards Lord Ravensworth), the Earl of Strathmore, and
Mr. Stuart Wortley (afterwards Lord Wharncliffe), the lessees of the Killingworth collieries.
Having been informed of the merits of Stephenson, of his indefatigable industry, and the skill
which he had displayed in the repairs of the pumping-engines, they readily acceded to Mr. Dodds’
recommendation that he should be appointed the colliery engine-wright; and, as we shall afterwards
find, they continued to honour him by distinguished marks of their approval.  Perhaps the secret
of every man’s best success is to be found in the alacrity and industry with which he takes
advantage of the opportunities which present themselves for well-doing.  Our engineman was
an eminent illustration of the importance of cultivating this habit of life.  Every spare moment
was laid under contribution by him, either for the purpose of adding to his earnings, or to
his knowledge.  He missed no opportunity of extending his observations, especially in his own
department of work, ever aiming at improvement, and trying to turn all that he did know to
useful practical account.

He continued his attempts to solve the mystery of Perpetual Motion, and contrived several model
machines with the object of embodying his ideas in a practical working shape.  He afterwards
used to lament the time he had lost in these futile efforts, and said that if he had enjoyed
the opportunity which most young men now have, of learning from books what previous experimenters
had accomplished, he would have been spared much labour and mortification.  Not being acquainted
with what other mechanics had done, he groped his way in pursuit of some idea originated by
his own independent thinking and observation; and, when he had brought it into some definite
form, lo! he found that his supposed invention had long been known and recorded in scientific
books.  Often he thought he had hit upon discoveries, which he subsequently found were but
old and exploded fallacies.  Yet his very struggle to overcome the difficulties which lay in
his way, was of itself an education of the best sort.  By wrestling with them, he strengthened
his judgment and sharpened his skill, stimulating and cultivating his inventiveness and mechanical
ingenuity. Being very much in earnest, he was compelled to consider the subject of his special
inquiry in all its relations; and thus he gradually acquired practical ability even through
his very efforts after the impracticable.

Many of his evenings were now spent in the society of John Wigham, whose father occupied the
Glebe Farm at Benton, close at hand.  John was a fair penman and a sound arithmetician, and
Stephenson sought his society chiefly for the purpose of improving himself in writing and “figures.”
Under Andrew Robertson, he had never quite mastered the Rule of Three, and it was only when
Wigham took him in hand that he made much progress in the higher branches of arithmetic.  He
generally took his slate with him to the Wighams’ cottage, when he had his sums set, that he
might work them out while tending his engine on the following day.  When too busy to be able
to call upon Wigham, he sent the slate to have the former sums corrected and new ones set.
Sometimes also, at leisure moments, he was enabled to do a little “figuring” with chalk upon
the sides of the coal-waggons.  So much patient perseverance could not but eventually succeed;
and by dint of practice and study, Stephenson was enabled to master successively the various
rules of arithmetic.

John Wigham was of great use to his pupil in many ways.  He was a good talker, fond of argument,
an extensive reader as country reading went in those days, and a very suggestive thinker. 
Though his store of information might be comparatively small when measured with that of more
highly-cultivated minds, much of it was entirely new to Stephenson, who regarded him as a very
clever and ingenious person.  Wigham taught him to draw plans and sections; though in this
branch Stephenson proved so apt that he soon surpassed his master.  A volume of ‘Ferguson’s
Lectures on Mechanics,’ which fell into their hands, was a great treasure to both the students.
One who remembers their evening occupations says he used to wonder what they meant by weighing
the air and water in so odd a way. They were trying the specific gravities of objects; and
the devices which they employed, the mechanical shifts to which they were put, were often of
the rudest kind.  In these evening entertainments, the mechanical contrivances were supplied
by Stephenson, whilst Wigham found the scientific rationale.  The opportunity thus afforded
to the former of cultivating his mind by contact with one wiser than himself proved of great
value, and in after-life Stephenson gratefully remembered the assistance which, when a humble
workman, he had derived from John Wigham, the farmer’s son.

His leisure moments thus carefully improved, it will be inferred that Stephenson continued
a sober man.  Though his notions were never extreme on this point, he was systematically temperate.
It appears that on the invitation of his master, he had, on one or two occasions, been induced
to join him in a forenoon glass of ale in the public-house of the village.  But one day, about
noon, when Dodds had got him as far as the public-house door, on his invitation to “come in
and take a glass o’ yel,” Stephenson made a dead stop, and said, firmly, “No, sir, you must
excuse me; I have made a resolution to drink no more at this time of day.”  And he went back.
He desired to retain the character of a steady workman; and the instances of men about him
who had made shipwreck of their character through intemperance, were then, as now, unhappily
but too frequent.

But another consideration besides his own self-improvement had already begun to exercise an
important influence on his life.  This was the training and education of his son Robert, now
growing up an active, intelligent boy, as full of fun and tricks as his father had been.  When
a little fellow, scarcely able to reach so high as to put a clock-head on when placed upon
the table, his father would make him mount a chair for the purpose; and to “help father” was
the proudest work which the boy then, and ever after, could take part in.  When the little
engine was set up at the Ochre Quarry to pump it dry, Robert was scarcely absent for an hour.
He watched the machine very eagerly when it was set to work; and he was very much annoyed at
the fire burning away the grates.  The man who fired the engine was a sort of wag, and thinking
to get a laugh at the boy, he said, “Those bars are getting varra bad, Robert; I think we main
cut up some of that hard wood, and put it in instead.”  “What would be the use of that, you
fool?” said the boy quickly.  “You would no sooner have put them in than they would be burnt
out again!”

So soon as Robert was of proper age, his father sent him over to the road-side school at Long
Benton, kept by Rutter, the parish clerk.  But the education which Rutter could give was of
a very limited kind, scarcely extending beyond the primer and pothooks.  While working as a
brakesman on the pit-head at Killingworth, the father had often bethought him of the obstructions
he had himself encountered in life through his want of schooling; and he formed the noble determination
that no labour, nor pains, nor self-denial on his part should be spared to furnish his son
with the best education that it was in his power to bestow.

              [Picture: Rutter’s School House, Long Benton]

It is true his earnings were comparatively small at that time.  He was still maintaining his
infirm parents; and the cost of living continued excessive.  But he fell back upon his old
expedient of working up his spare time in the evenings at home, or during the night shifts
when it was his turn to tend the engine, in mending and making shoes, cleaning clocks and watches,
making shoe-lasts for the shoe-makers of the neighbourhood, and cutting out the pitmen’s clothes
for their wives; and we have been told that to this day there are clothes worn at Killingworth
made after “Geordy Steevie’s cut.”  To give his own words:—“In the earlier period of my career,”
said he, “when Robert was a little boy, I saw how deficient I was in education, and I made
up my mind that he should not labour under the same defect, but that I would put him to a good
school, and give him a liberal training.  I was, however, a poor man; and how do you think
I managed?  I betook myself to mending my neighbours’ clocks and watches at nights, after my
daily labour was done, and thus I procured the means of educating my son.” {52}

Carrying out the resolution as to his boy’s education, Robert was sent to Mr. Bruce’s school
in Percy Street, Newcastle, at Midsummer, 1815, when he was about twelve years old.  His father
bought for him a donkey, on which he rode into Newcastle and back daily; and there are many
still living who remember the little boy, dressed in his suit of homely grey stuff, cut out
by his father, cantering along to school upon the “cuddy,” with his wallet of provisions for
the day and his bag of books slung over his shoulder.

When Robert went to Mr. Bruce’s school, he was a shy, unpolished country lad, speaking the
broad dialect of the pitmen; and the other boys would occasionally tease him, for the purpose
of provoking an outburst of his Killingworth Doric.  As the shyness got rubbed off, his love
of fun began to show itself, and he was found able enough to hold his own amongst the other
boys.  As a scholar he was steady and diligent, and his master was accustomed to hold him up
to the laggards of the school as an example of good conduct and industry.  But his progress,
though satisfactory, was by no means extraordinary.  He used in after-life to pride himself
on his achievements in mensuration, though another boy, John Taylor, beat him at arithmetic.
He also made considerable progress in mathematics; and in a letter written to the son of his
teacher, many years after, he said, “It was to Mr. Bruce’s tuition and methods of modelling
the mind that I attribute much of my success as an engineer; for it was from him that I derived
my taste for mathematical pursuits and the facility I possess of applying this kind of knowledge
to practical purposes and modifying it according to circumstances.”

                   [Picture: Bruce’s School, Newcastle]

During the time Robert attended school at Newcastle, his father made the boy’s education instrumental
to his own.  Robert was accustomed to spend some of his spare time at the rooms of the Literary
and Philosophical Institute; and when he went home in the evening, he would recount to his
father the results of his reading.  Sometimes he was allowed to take with him to Killingworth
a volume of the ‘Repertory of Arts and Sciences,’ which father and son studied together.  But
many of the most valuable works belonging to the Newcastle Library were not lent out; these
Robert was instructed to read and study, and bring away with him descriptions and sketches
for his father’s information.  His father also practised him in reading plans and drawings
without reference to the written descriptions.  He used to observe that “A good plan should
always explain itself;” and, placing a drawing of an engine or machine before the youth, would
say, “There, now, describe that to me—the arrangement and the action.”  Thus he taught him
to read a drawing as easily as he would read a page of a book.  Both father and son profited
by this excellent practice, which enabled them to apprehend with the greatest facility the
details of even the most difficult and complicated mechanical drawing.

While Robert went on with his lessons in the evenings, his father was usually occupied with
his watch and clock cleaning; or in contriving models of pumping-engines; or endeavouring to
embody in a tangible shape the mechanical inventions which he found described in the odd volumes
on Mechanics which fell in his way.  This daily and unceasing example of industry and application,
in the person of a loving and beloved father, imprinted itself deeply upon the boy’s heart
in characters never to be effaced.  A spirit of self-improvement was thus early and carefully
planted and fostered in Robert’s mind, which continued to influence him through life; and to
the close of his career, he was proud to confess that if his professional success had been
great, it was mainly to the example and training of his father that he owed it.

Robert was not, however, exclusively devoted to study, but, like most boys full of animal spirits,
he was very fond of fun and play, and sometimes of mischief.  Dr. Bruce relates that an old
Killingworth labourer, when asked by Robert, on one of his last visits to Newcastle, if he
remembered him, replied with emotion, “Ay, indeed!  Haven’t I paid your head many a time when
you came with your father’s bait, for you were always a sad hempy?”

The author had the pleasure, in the year 1854, of accompanying Robert Stephenson on a visit
to his old home and haunts at Killingworth.  He had so often travelled the road upon his donkey
to and from school, that every foot of it was familiar to him; and each turn in it served to
recall to mind some incident of his boyish days.  His eyes glistened when he came in sight
of Killingworth pit-head.  Pointing to a humble red-tiled house by the road-side at Benton,
he said, “You see that house—that was Rutter’s, where I learnt my A B C, and made a beginning
of my school learning.  And there,” pointing to a colliery chimney on the left, “there is Long
Benton, where my father put up his first pumping-engine; and a great success it was.  And this
humble clay-floored cottage you see here, is where my grandfather lived till the close of his
life.  Many a time have I ridden straight into the house, mounted on my cuddy, and called upon
grandfather to admire his points.  I remember the old man feeling the animal all over—he was
then quite blind—after which he would dilate upon the shape of his ears, fetlocks, and quarters,
and usually end by pronouncing him to be a ‘real blood.’  I was a great favourite with the
old man, who continued very fond of animals, and cheerful to the last; and I believe nothing
gave him greater pleasure than a visit from me and my cuddy.”

On the way from Benton to High Killingworth, Mr. Stephenson pointed to a corner of the road
where he had once played a boyish trick upon a Killingworth collier.  “Straker,” said he, “was
a great bully, a coarse, swearing fellow, and a perfect tyrant amongst the women and children.
He would go tearing into old Nanny the huxter’s shop in the village, and demand in a savage
voice, ‘What’s ye’r best ham the pund?’  ‘What’s floor the hunder?’  ‘What d’ye ax for prime
bacon?’—his questions often ending with the miserable order, accompanied with a tremendous
oath, of ‘Gie’s a penny rrow (roll) an’ a baubee herrin!’  The poor woman was usually set ‘all
of a shake’ by a visit from this fellow.  He was also a great boaster, and used to crow over
the robbers whom he had put to flight; mere men in buckram, as everybody knew.  We boys,” he
continued, “believed him to be a great coward, and determined to play him a trick. Two other
boys joined me in waylaying Straker one night at that corner,” pointing to it.  “We sprang
out and called upon him, in as gruff voices as we could assume, to ‘stand and deliver!’  He
dropped down upon his knees in the dirt, declaring he was a poor man, with a sma’ family, asking
for ‘mercy,’ and imploring us, as ‘gentlemen, for God’s sake, t’ let him a-be!’  We couldn’t
stand this any longer, and set up a shout of laughter.  Recognizing our boys’ voices, he sprang
to his feet and rattled out a volley of oaths; on which we cut through the hedge, and heard
him shortly after swearing his way along the road to the yel-house.”

On another occasion, Robert played a series of tricks of a somewhat different character.  Like
his father, he was very fond of reducing his scientific reading to practice; and after studying
Franklin’s description of the lightning experiment, he proceeded to expend his store of Saturday
pennies in purchasing about half a mile of copper wire at a brazier’s shop in Newcastle.  Having
prepared his kite, he sent it up in the field opposite his father’s door, and bringing the
wire, insulated by means of a few feet of silk cord, over the backs of some of Farmer Wigham’s
cows, he soon had them skipping about the field in all directions with their tails up.  One
day he had his kite flying at the cottage-door as his father’s galloway was hanging by the
bridle to the paling, waiting for the master to mount.  Bringing the end of the wire just over
the pony’s crupper, so smart an electric shock was given it, that the brute was almost knocked
down.  At this juncture the father issued from the door, riding-whip in hand, and was witness
to the scientific trick just played off upon his galloway.  “Ah! you mischievous scoondrel!”
cried he to the boy, who ran off.  He inwardly chuckled with pride, nevertheless, at Robert’s
successful experiment. {57}

                [Picture: Stephenson’s Cottage, West Moor]

At this time, and for many years after, Stephenson dwelt in a cottage standing by the side
of the road leading from the West Moor colliery to Killingworth.  The railway from the West
Moor Pit crosses this road close by the east end of the cottage.  The dwelling originally consisted
of but one apartment on the ground-floor, with the garret over-head, to which access was obtained
by means of a step-ladder.  But with his own hands Stephenson built an oven, and in the course
of time he added rooms to the cottage, until it became a comfortable four-roomed dwelling,
in which he lived as long as he remained at Killingworth.

He continued as fond of birds and animals as ever, and seemed to have the power of attaching
them to him in a remarkable degree.  He had a blackbird at Killingworth so fond of him that
it would fly about the cottage, and on holding out his finger, would come and perch upon it.
A cage was built for “blackie” in the partition between the passage and the room, a square
of glass forming its outer wall; and Robert used afterwards to take pleasure in describing
the oddity of the bird, imitating the manner in which it would cock its head on his father’s
entering the house, and follow him with its eye into the inner apartment.

Neighbours were accustomed to call at the cottage and have their clocks and watches set to
rights when they went wrong.  One day, after looking at the works of a watch left by a pitman’s
wife, George handed it to his son; “Put her in the oven, Robert,” said he, “for a quarter of
an hour or so.”  It seemed an odd way of repairing a watch; nevertheless, the watch was put
into the oven, and at the end of the appointed time it was taken out, going all right.  The
wheels had merely got clogged by the oil congealed by the cold; which at once explains the
rationale of the remedy adopted.

There was a little garden attached to the cottage, in which, while a workman, Stephenson took
a pride in growing gigantic leeks and astounding cabbages.  There was great competition amongst
the villagers in the growth of vegetables, all of whom he excelled, excepting one of his neighbours,
whose cabbages sometimes outshone his.  In the protection of his garden-crops from the ravages
of the birds, he invented a strange sort of “fley-craw,” which moved its arms with the wind;
and he fastened his garden-door by means of a piece of ingenious mechanism, so that no one
but himself could enter it.  His cottage was quite a curiosity-shop of models of engines, self-acting
planes, and perpetual-motion machines. The last-named contrivances, however, were only unsuccessful
attempts to solve a problem which had effectually baffled hundreds of preceding inventors.
His odd and eccentric contrivances often excited great wonder amongst the Killingworth villagers.
He won the women’s admiration by connecting their cradles with the smoke-jack, and making them
self-acting.  Then he astonished the pitmen by attaching an alarum to the clock of the watchman
whose duty it was to call them betimes in the morning.  He also contrived a wonderful lamp
which burned under water, with which he was afterwards wont to amuse the Brandling family at
Gosforth,—going into the fish-pond at night, lamp in hand, attracting and catching the fish,
which rushed wildly towards the flame.

Dr. Bruce tells of a competition which Stephenson had with the joiner at Killingworth, as to
which of them could make the best shoe-last; and when the former had done his work, either
for the humour of the thing, or to secure fair play from the appointed judge, he took it to
the Morrisons in Newcastle, and got them to put their stamp upon it.  So that it is possible
the Killingworth brakesman, afterwards the inventor of the safety lamp and the originator of
the railway system, and John Morrison, the last-maker, afterwards the translator of the Scriptures
into the Chinese language, may have confronted each other in solemn contemplation over the
successful last, which won the verdict coveted by its maker.

Sometimes he would endeavour to impart to his fellow-workmen the results of his scientific
reading.  Everything that he learnt from books was so new and so wonderful to him, that he
regarded the facts he drew from them in the light of discoveries, as if they had been made
but yesterday. Once he tried to explain to some of the pitmen how the earth was round, and
kept turning round.  But his auditors flatly declared the thing to be impossible, as it was
clear that “at the bottom side they must fall off!” “Ah!” said George, “you don’t quite understand
it yet.”  His son Robert also early endeavoured to communicate to others the information which
he had gathered at school; and Dr. Bruce has related that, when visiting Killingworth on one
occasion, he found him engaged in teaching algebra to such of the pitmen’s boys as would become
his pupils.

                          [Picture: The Sundial]

While Robert was still at school, his father proposed to him during the holidays that he should
construct a sun-dial, to be placed over their cottage-door at West Moor.  “I expostulated with
him at first,” said Robert, “that I had not learnt sufficient astronomy and mathematics to
enable me to make the necessary calculations.  But he would have no denial.  ‘The thing is
to be done,’ said he; ‘so just set about it at once.’  Well; we got a ‘Ferguson’s Astronomy,’
and studied the subject together.  Many a sore head I had while making the necessary calculations
to adapt the dial to the latitude of Killingworth.  But at length it was fairly drawn out on
paper, and then my father got a stone, and we hewed, and carved, and polished it, until we
made a very respectable dial of it; and there it is, you see,” pointing to it over the cottage-door,
“still quietly numbering the hours when the sun is shining.  I assure you, not a little was
thought of that piece of work by the pitmen when it was put up, and began to tell its tale
of time.”  The date carved upon the dial is “August 11th, MDCCCXVI.”  Both father and son were
in after-life very proud of the joint production.  Many years after, George took a party of
savans, when attending the meeting of the British Association at Newcastle, over to Killingworth
to see the pits, and he did not fail to direct their attention to the sun-dial; and Robert,
on the last visit which he made to the place, a short time before his death, took a friend
into the cottage, and pointed out to him the very desk, still there, at which he had sat while
making his calculations of the latitude of Killingworth.

From the time of his appointment as engineer at the Killingworth Pit, George Stephenson was
in a measure relieved from the daily routine of manual labour, having, as we have seen, advanced
himself to the grade of a higher class workman.  But he had not ceased to be a worker, though
he employed his industry in a different way.  It might, indeed, be inferred that he had now
the command of greater leisure; but his spare hours were as much as ever given to work, either
necessary or self-imposed.  So far as regarded his social position, he had already reached
the summit of his ambition; and when he had got his hundred a year, and his dun galloway to
ride on, he said he never wanted to be any higher.  When Robert Whetherly offered to give him
an old gig, his travelling having so much increased of late, he accepted it with great reluctance,
observing, that he should be ashamed to get into it, “people would think him so proud.”

When the High Pit had been sunk, and the coal was ready for working, Stephenson erected his
first winding-engine to draw the coals out of the pit, and also a pumping-engine for Long Benton
Colliery, both of which proved quite successful.  Amongst other works of this time, he projected
and laid down a self-acting incline along the declivity which fell towards the coal-loading
place near Willington, where he had officiated as brakesman; and he so arranged it, that the
full waggons descending drew the empty waggons up the railroad.  This was one of the first
self-acting inclines laid down in the district.

Stephenson had now much better opportunities than hitherto for improving himself in mechanics.
His familiar acquaintance with the steam-engine proved of great value to him.  His shrewd insight,
and his intimate practical acquaintance with its mechanism, enabled him to apprehend, as if
by intuition, its most abstruse and difficult combinations.  The practical study which he had
given to it when a workman, and the patient manner in which he had groped his way through all
the details of the machine, gave him the power of a master in dealing with it as applied to
colliery purposes.

Sir Thomas Liddell was frequently about the works, and took pleasure in giving every encouragement
to the engine-wright in his efforts after improvement.  The subject of the locomotive engine
was already closely occupying Stephenson’s attention; although it was still regarded as a curious
and costly toy, of comparatively little real use.  But he had at an early period detected its
practical value, and formed an adequate conception of the might which as yet slumbered within
it; and he now bent his entire faculties to the development of its extraordinary powers.

The rapid increase in the coal-trade of the Tyne about the beginning of the present century
had the effect of stimulating the ingenuity of mechanics, and encouraging them to devise improved
methods of transporting the coal from the pits to the shipping places.  From our introductory
chapter, it will have been observed that the improvements which had thus far been effected
were confined almost entirely to the road.  The railway waggons still continued to be drawn
by horses.  By improving and flattening the tramway, considerable economy in horse-power had
indeed been secured; but unless some more effective method of mechanical traction could be
devised, it was clear that railway improvement had almost reached its limits.

Many expedients had been tried with this object.  One of the earliest was that of hoisting
sails upon the waggons, and driving them along the waggon-way, as a ship is driven through
the water by the wind.  This method seems to have been employed by Sir Humphrey Mackworth,
an ingenious coal-miner at Neath in Glamorganshire, about the end of the seventeenth century.

After having been lost sight of for more than a century, the same plan of impelling carriages
was revived by Richard Lovell Edgworth, with the addition of a portable railway, since revived
also, in Boydell’s patent. But although Mr. Edgworth devoted himself to the subject for many
years, he failed in securing the adoption of his sailing carriage.  It is indeed quite clear
that a power so uncertain as wind could never be relied on for ordinary traffic, and Mr. Edgworth’s
project was consequently left to repose in the limbo of the Patent Office, with thousands of
other equally useless though ingenious contrivances.

A much more favourite scheme was the application of steam power for the purpose of carriage
traction.  Savery, the inventor of the working steam-engine, was the first to propose its employment
to propel vehicles along the common roads; and in 1759 Dr. Robison, then a young man studying
at Glasgow College, threw out the same idea to his friend James Watt; but the scheme was not
matured.

                        [Picture: Cugnot’s Engine]

The first locomotive steam-carriage was built at Paris by the French engineer Cugnot, a native
of Lorraine.  It is said to have been invented for the purpose of dragging cannon into the
field independent of horses. The original model of this machine was made in 1763.  Count Saxe
was so much pleased with it, that on his recommendation a full-sized engine was constructed
at the cost of the French monarch; and in 1769 it was tried in the presence of the Duc de Choiseul,
Minister of War, General Gribeauval, and other officers.  At one of the experiments it ran
with such force as to knock down a wall in its way.  But the new vehicle, loaded with four
persons, could not travel faster than two and a half miles an hour.  The boiler was insufficient
in size, and it could only work for about fifteen minutes; after which it was necessary to
wait until the steam had again risen to a sufficient pressure.  To remedy this defect, Cugnot
constructed a new machine in 1770, the working of which was more satisfactory.  It was composed
of two parts—the fore part consisting of a small steam-engine, formed of a round copper boiler,
with a furnace inside, provided with two small chimneys and two single-acting brass steam cylinders,
whose pistons acted alternately upon the single driving-wheel.  The hinder part consisted merely
of a rude carriage on two wheels to carry the load, furnished with a seat in front for the
conductor.  This engine was tried in the streets of Paris; but when passing near where the
Madeleine now stands, it overbalanced itself on turning a corner, and fell over with a crash;
after which, its employment being thought dangerous, it was locked up in the arsenal to prevent
further mischief.  The machine is, however, still to be seen in the collection of the Conservatoire
des Arts et Métiers at Paris.  It has very much the look of a long brewer’s cart, with the
addition of the circular boiler hung on at one end.  Rough though it looks, it was a highly
creditable piece of work, considering the period at which it was executed; and as the first
actual machine constructed for the purpose of travelling on ordinary roads by the power of
steam, it is certainly a most curious and interesting mechanical relic, well worthy of preservation.

But though Cugnot’s road locomotive remained locked up from public sight, the subject was not
dead; for we find inventors employing themselves from time to time in attempting to solve the
problem of steam locomotion in places far remote from Paris.  The idea had taken root in the
minds of inventors, and was striving to grow into a reality.  Thus Oliver Evans, the American,
invented a steam carriage in 1772 to travel on common roads; in 1787 he obtained from the State
of Maryland an exclusive right to make and use steam-carriages, but his invention never came
into use. Then, in 1784, William Symington, one of the early inventors of the steamboat, was
similarly occupied in Scotland in endeavouring to develop the latent powers of the steam-carriage.
He had a working model of one constructed, which he exhibited in 1786 to the professors of
Edinburgh College; but the state of the Scotch roads was then so bad that he found it impracticable
to proceed further with his scheme, which he shortly after abandoned in favour of steam navigation.

                  [Picture: Section of Murdock’s Model]

The same year in which Symington was occupied upon his steam-carriage, William Murdock, the
friend and assistant of Watt, constructed his model of a locomotive at the opposite end of
the island—at Redruth in Cornwall. His model was of small dimensions, standing little more
than a foot high; and it was until recently in the possession of the son of the inventor, at
whose house we saw it a few years ago.  The annexed section will give an idea of the arrangements
of this machine.

It acted on the high-pressure principle, and, like Cugnot’s engine, ran upon three wheels,
the boiler being heated by a spirit-lamp.  Small though the machine was, it went so fast on
one occasion that it fairly outran its inventor.  It seems that one night after returning from
his duties at the Redruth mine, Murdock determined to try the working of his model locomotive.
For this purpose he had recourse to the walk leading to the church, about a mile from the town.
It was rather narrow, and was bounded on each side by high hedges.  The night was dark, and
Murdock set out alone to try his experiment.  Having lit his lamp, the water boiled speedily,
and off started the engine with the inventor after it.  He soon heard distant shouts of terror.
It was too dark to perceive objects; but he found, on following up the machine, that the cries
proceeded from the worthy pastor of the parish, who, going towards the town, was met on this
lonely road by the hissing and fiery little monster, which he subsequently declared he had
taken to be the Evil One in propriá personâ.  No further steps were, however, taken by Murdock
to embody his idea of a locomotive carriage in a more practical form.

The idea was next taken up by Murdock’s pupil, Richard Trevithick, who resolved on building
a steam-carriage adapted for common roads as well as railways.  He took out a patent to secure
the right of his invention in 1802.  Andrew Vivian, his cousin, joined with him in the patent—Vivian
finding the money, and Trevithick the brains.  The steam-carriage built on this patent presented
the appearance of an ordinary stage-coach on four wheels.  The engine had one horizontal cylinder,
which, together with the boiler and the furnace-box, was placed in the rear of the hind axle.
The motion of the piston was transmitted to a separate crank-axle, from which, through the
medium of spur-gear, the axle of the driving-wheel (which was mounted with a fly-wheel) derived
its motion. The steam-cocks and the force-pump, as also the bellows used for the purpose of
quickening combustion in the furnace, were worked off the same crank-axle.

John Petherick, of Camborne, has related that he remembers this first English steam-coach passing
along the principal street of his native town.  Considerable difficulty was experienced in
keeping up the pressure of steam; but when there was pressure enough, Trevithick would call
upon the people to “jump up,” so as to create a load upon the engine.  It was soon covered
with men attracted by the novelty, nor did their number seem to make any difference in the
speed of the engine so long as there was steam enough; but it was constantly running short,
and the horizontal bellows failed to keep it up.

This road-locomotive of Trevithick’s was one of the first high-pressure working engines constructed
on the principle of moving a piston by the elasticity of steam against the pressure only of
the atmosphere.  Such an engine had been described by Leopold, though in his apparatus it was
proposed that the pressure should act only on one side of the piston.  In Trevithick’s engine
the piston was not only raised, but was also depressed by the action of the steam, being in
this respect an entirely original invention, and of great merit.  The steam was admitted from
the boiler under the piston moving in a cylinder, impelling it upward.  When the motion had
reached its limit, the communication between the piston and the under side was shut off, and
the steam allowed to escape into the atmosphere.  A passage being then opened between the boiler
and the upper side of the piston, which was pressed downwards, the steam was again allowed
to escape as before.  Thus the power of the engine was equal to the difference between the
pressure of the atmosphere and the elasticity of the steam in the boiler.

This steam-carriage excited considerable interest in the remote district near the Land’s End
where it had been erected.  Being so far removed from the great movements and enterprise of
the commercial world, Trevithick and Vivian determined upon exhibiting their machine in the
metropolis. They accordingly set out with it to Plymouth, whence it was conveyed by sea to London.

The carriage safely reached the metropolis, and excited much public interest.  It also attracted
the notice of scientific men, amongst others of Mr. Davies Gilbert, President of the Royal
Society, and Sir Humphry Davy, both Cornishmen like Trevithick, who went to see the private
performances of the engine, and were greatly pleased with it.  Writing to a Cornish friend
shortly after its arrival in town, Sir Humphry said: “I shall soon hope to hear that the roads
of England are the haunts of Captain Trevithick’s dragons—a characteristic name.”  The machine
was afterwards publicly exhibited in an enclosed piece of ground near Euston Square, where
the London and North-Western Station now stands, and it dragged behind it a wheel-carriage
full of passengers.  On the second day of the performance, crowds flocked to see it; but Trevithick,
in one of his odd freaks, shut up the place, and shortly after removed the engine. It is, however,
probable that the inventor came to the conclusion that the state of the roads at that time
was such as to preclude its coming into general use for purposes of ordinary traffic.

While the steam-carriage was being exhibited, a gentleman was laying heavy wagers as to the
weight which could be hauled by a single horse on the Wandsworth and Croydon iron tramway;
and the number and weight of waggons drawn by the horse were something surprising.  Trevithick
very probably put the two things together—the steam-horse and the iron-way—and kept the performance
in mind when he proceeded to construct his second or railway locomotive.  The idea was not,
however, entirely new to him; for, although his first engine had been constructed with a view
to its employment upon common roads, the specification of his patent distinctly alludes to
the application of his engine to travelling on railroads. Having been employed at the iron-works
of Pen-y-darran, in South Wales, to erect a forge engine for the Company, a convenient opportunity
presented itself, on the completion of this work, for carrying out his design of a locomotive
to haul the minerals along the Pen-y-darran tramway.  Such an engine was erected by him in
1803, in the blacksmiths’ shop at the Company’s works, and it was finished and ready for trial
before the end of the year.

The boiler of this second engine was cylindrical in form, flat at the ends, and made of wrought
iron.  The furnace and flue were inside the boiler, within which the single cylinder, eight
inches in diameter and four feet six inches stroke, was placed horizontally.  As in the first
engine, the motion of the wheels was produced by spur gear, to which was also added a fly-wheel
on one side, to secure a rotatory motion in the crank at the end of each stroke of the piston
in the single cylinder. The waste steam was thrown into the chimney through a tube inserted
into it at right angles; but it will be obvious that this arrangement was not calculated to
produce any result in the way of a steam-blast in the chimney.  In fact, the waste steam seems
to have been turned into the chimney in order to get rid of the nuisance caused by throwing
the jet directly into the air.  Trevithick was here hovering on the verge of a great discovery;
but that he was not aware of the action of the blast in contributing to increase the draught
and thus quicken combustion, is clear from the fact that he employed bellows for this special
purpose; and at a much later date (1815) he took out a patent which included a method of urging
the fire by means of fanners. {70}

            [Picture: Trevithick’s High Pressure Tram-Engine]

At the first trial of this engine it succeeded in dragging after it several waggons, containing
ten tons of bar-iron, at the rate of about five miles an hour.  Rees Jones, who worked at the
fitting of the engine, and remembers its performances, says, “She was used for bringing down
metal from the furnaces to the Old Forge.  She worked very well; but frequently, from her weight,
broke the tram-plates and the hooks between the trams.  After working for some time in this
way, she took a load of iron from Pen-y-darran down the Basin-road, upon which road she was
intended to work.  On the journey she broke a great many of the tram-plates, and before reaching
the basin ran off the road, and had to be brought back to Pen-y-darran by horses.  The engine
was never after used as a locomotive.” {71}

It seems to have been felt that unless the road were entirely reconstructed so as to bear the
heavy weight of the locomotive—so much greater than that of the tram-waggons, to carry which
the original rails had been laid down—the regular employment of Trevithick’s high-pressure
tram-engine was altogether impracticable; and as the owners of the works were not prepared
to incur so serious a cost, it was determined to take the locomotive off the road, and employ
it as an engine for other purposes.  It was accordingly dismounted, and used for some time
after as a pumping-engine, for which purpose it was found well adapted. Trevithick himself
seems from this time to have taken no further steps to bring the locomotive into general use.
We find him, shortly after, engaged upon schemes of a more promising character, abandoning
the engine to other mechanical inventors, though little improvement was made in it for several
years.  An imaginary difficulty seems to have tended, amongst other obstacles, to prevent its
adoption; viz., the idea that, if a heavy weight were placed behind the engine, the “grip”
or “bite” of its smooth wheels upon the equally smooth iron rail, must necessarily be so slight
that they would whirl round upon it, and, consequently, that the machine would not make progress.
Hence Trevithick, in his patent, provided that the periphery of the driving-wheels should be
made rough by the projection of bolts or cross-grooves, so that the adhesion of the wheels
to the road might be secured.

Following up the presumed necessity for a more effectual adhesion between the wheels and the
rails, Mr. Blenkinsop of Leeds, in 1811, took out a patent for a racked or tooth-rail laid
along one side of the road, into which the toothed-wheel of his locomotive worked as pinions
work into a rack.  The boiler of his engine was supported by a carriage with four wheels without
teeth, and rested immediately upon the axles.  These wheels were entirely independent of the
working parts of the engine, and therefore merely supported its weight upon the rails, the
progress being effected by means of the cogged-wheel working into the cogged-rail.  The engine
had two cylinders, instead of one as in Trevithick’s engine.  The invention of the double cylinder
was due to Matthew Murray, of Leeds, one of the best mechanical engineers of his time; Mr.
Blenkinsop, who was not a mechanic, having consulted him as to all the practical arrangements.
The connecting-rods gave the motion to two pinions by cranks at right angles to each other;
these pinions communicating the motion to the wheel which worked into the cogged-rail.

Mr. Blenkinsop’s engines began running on the railway from the Middleton Collieries to Leeds,
about 3½ miles, on the 12th of August, 1812.  They continued for many years to be one of the
principal curiosities of the place, and were visited by strangers from all parts.  In 1816,
the Grand Duke Nicholas (afterwards Emperor) of Russia observed the working of Blenkinsop’s
locomotive with curious interest and admiration.  An engine dragged as many as thirty coal-waggons
at a speed of about 3¼ miles per hour.  These engines continued for many years to be thus employed
in the haulage of coal, and furnished the first instance of the regular employment of locomotive
power for commercial purposes.

The Messrs. Chapman, of Newcastle, in 1812, endeavoured to overcome the same fictitious difficulty
of the want of adhesion between the wheel and the rail, by patenting a locomotive to work along
the road by means of a chain stretched from one end of it to the other.  This chain was passed
once round a grooved barrel-wheel under the centre of the engine: so that, when the wheel turned,
the locomotive, as it were, dragged itself along the railway.  An engine, constructed after
this plan, was tried on the Heaton Railway, near Newcastle; but it was so clumsy in its action,
there was so great a loss of power by friction, and it was found to be so expensive and difficult
to keep in repair, that it was soon abandoned. Another remarkable expedient was adopted by
Mr. Brunton, of the Butterley Works, Derbyshire, who, in 1813, patented his Mechanical Traveller,
to go upon legs working alternately like those of a horse. {73}  But this engine never got
beyond the experimental state, for, at its very first trial, the driver, to make sure of a
good start, overloaded the safety-valve, when the boiler burst and killed a number of the bystanders,
wounding many more.  These, and other contrivances with the same object, projected about the
same time, show that invention was actively at work, and that many minds were anxiously labouring
to solve the important problem of locomotive traction upon railways.

But the difficulties contended with by these early inventors, and the step-by-step progress
which they made, will probably be best illustrated by the experiments conducted by Mr. Blackett,
of Wylam, which are all the more worthy of notice, as the persevering efforts of this gentleman
in a great measure paved the way for the labours of George Stephenson, who, shortly after,
took up the question of steam locomotion, and brought it to a successful issue.

The Wylam waggon-way is one of the oldest in the north of England.  Down to the year 1807 it
was formed of wooden spars or rails, laid down between the colliery at Wylam—where old Robert
Stephenson had worked—and the village of Lemington, some four miles down the Tyne, where the
coals were loaded into keels or barges, and floated down past Newcastle, to be shipped for
London.  Each chaldron-waggon had a man in charge of it, and was originally drawn by one horse.
The rate at which the waggons were hauled was so slow that only two journeys were performed
by each man and horse in one day, and three on the day following.  This primitive waggon-way
passed, as before stated, close in front of the cottage in which George Stephenson was born;
and one of the earliest sights which met his infant eyes was this wooden tramroad worked by horses.

Mr. Blackett was the first colliery owner in the North who took an active interest in the locomotive.
Having formed the acquaintance of Trevithick in London, and inspected the performances of his
engine, he determined to repeat the Pen-y-darran experiment upon the Wylam waggon-way.  He
accordingly obtained from Trevithick, in October, 1804, a plan of his engine, provided with
“friction-wheels,” and employed Mr. John Whinfield, of Pipewellgate, Gateshead, to construct
it at his foundry there.  The engine was constructed under the superintendence of one John
Steele, an ingenious mechanic who had been in Wales, and worked under Trevithick in fitting
the engine at Pen-y-darran.  When the Gateshead locomotive was finished, a temporary way was
laid down in the works, on which it was run backwards and forwards many times.  For some reason,
however—it is said because the engine was deemed too light for drawing the coal-trains—it never
left the works, but was dismounted from the wheels, and set to blow the cupola of the foundry,
in which service it long continued to be employed.

Several years elapsed before Mr. Blackett took any further steps to carry out his idea.  The
final abandonment of Trevithick’s locomotive at Pen-y-darran perhaps contributed to deter him
from proceeding further; but he had the wooden tramway taken up in 1808, and a plate-way of
cast-iron laid down instead—a single line furnished with sidings to enable the laden waggons
to pass the empty ones.  The new iron road proved so much smoother than the old wooden one,
that a single horse, instead of drawing one, was now enabled to draw two, or even three, laden
waggons.

Encouraged by the success of Mr. Blenkinsop’s experiment at Leeds, Mr. Blackett determined
to follow his example; and in 1812 he ordered a second engine, to work with a toothed driving-wheel
upon a rack-rail. This locomotive was constructed by Thomas Waters, of Gateshead, under the
superintendence of Jonathan Foster, Mr. Blackett’s principal engine-wright.  It was a combination
of Trevithick’s and Blenkinsop’s engines; but it was of a more awkward construction than either.
The boiler was of cast-iron.  The engine was provided with a single cylinder six inches in
diameter, with a fly-wheel working at one side to carry the crank over the dead points.  Jonathan
Foster described it to the author in 1854, as “a strange machine, with lots of pumps, cog-wheels,
and plugs, requiring constant attention while at work.”  The weight of the whole was about
six tons.

When finished, it was conveyed to Wylam on a waggon, and there mounted upon a wooden frame
supported by four pairs of wheels, which had been constructed for its reception.  A barrel
of water, placed on another frame upon wheels, was attached to it as a tender.  After a great
deal of labour, the cumbrous machine was got upon the road.  At first it would not move an
inch.  Its maker, Tommy Waters, became impatient, and at length enraged, and taking hold of
the lever of the safety valve, declared in his desperation, that “either she or he should go.”
At length the machinery was set in motion, on which, as Jonathan Foster described to the author
“she flew all to pieces, and it was the biggest wonder i’ the world that we were not all blewn
up.”  The incompetent and useless engine was declared to be a failure; it was shortly after
dismounted and sold; and Mr. Blackett’s praiseworthy efforts thus far proved in vain.

He was still, however, desirous of testing the practicability of employing locomotive power
in working the coal down to Lemington, and he determined on another trial.  He accordingly
directed his engine-wright to proceed with the building of a third engine in the Wylam workshops.
This new locomotive had a single 8-inch cylinder, was provided with a fly-wheel like its predecessor,
and the driving-wheel was cogged on one side to enable it to travel in the rack-rail laid along
the road.  This engine proved more successful than the former one; and it was found capable
of dragging eight or nine loaded waggons, though at the rate of little more than a mile an
hour, from the colliery to the shipping-place. It sometimes took six hours to perform the journey
of five miles.  Its weight was found too great for the road, and the cast-iron plates were
constantly breaking.  It was also very apt to get off the rack-rail, and then it stood still.
The driver was one day asked how he got on?  “Get on?” said he, “we don’t get on; we only get
off!”  On such occasions, horses had to be sent to drag the waggons as before, and others to
haul the engine back to the work-shops.  It was constantly getting out of order; its plugs,
pumps, or cranks, got wrong; it was under repair as often as at work; at length it became so
cranky that the horses were usually sent out after it to drag it when it gave up; and the workmen
generally declared it to be a “perfect plague.”  Mr. Blackett did not obtain credit amongst
his neighbours for these experiments.  Many laughed at his machines, regarding them only in
the light of crotchets,—frequently quoting the proverb that “a fool and his money are soon
parted.”  Others regarded them as absurd innovations on the established method of hauling coal;
and pronounced that they would “never answer.”

Notwithstanding, however, the comparative failure of this second locomotive, Mr. Blackett persevered
with his experiments.  He was zealously assisted by Jonathan Foster the engine-wright, and
William Hedley, the viewer of the colliery, a highly ingenious person, who proved of great
use in carrying out the experiments to a successful issue.  One of the chief causes of failure
being the rack-rail, the idea occurred to Mr. Hedley that it might be possible to secure adhesion
enough between the wheel and the rail by the mere weight of the engine, and he proceeded to
make a series of experiments for the purpose of determining this problem.  He had a frame placed
on four wheels, and fitted up with windlasses attached by gearing to the several wheels.  The
frame having been properly weighted, six men were set to work the windlasses; when it was found
that the adhesion of the smooth wheels on the smooth rails was quite sufficient to enable them
to propel the machine without slipping. Having found the proportion which the power bore to
the weight, he demonstrated by successive experiments that the weight of the engine would of
itself produce sufficient adhesion to enable it to draw upon a smooth railroad the requisite
number of waggons in all kinds of weather. And thus was the fallacy which had heretofore prevailed
on this subject completely exploded, and it was satisfactorily proved that rack-rails, toothed
wheels, endless chains, and legs, were alike unnecessary for the efficient traction of loaded
waggons upon a moderately level road.

From this time forward considerably less difficulty was experienced in working the coal trains
upon the Wylam tramroad.  At length the rack-rail was dispensed with.  The road was laid with
heavier rails; the working of the old engine was improved; and a new engine was shortly after
built and placed upon the road, still on eight wheels, driven by seven rack-wheels working
inside them—with a wrought-iron boiler through which the flue was returned so as largely to
increase the heating surface, and thus give increased power to the engine.

                     [Picture: Improved Wylam Engine]

As may readily be imagined, the jets of steam from the piston, blowing off into the air at
high pressure while the engine was in motion, caused considerable annoyance to horses passing
along the Wylam road, at that time a public highway.  The nuisance was felt to be almost intolerable,
and a neighbouring gentleman threatened to have it put down.  To diminish the noise as much
as possible, Mr. Blackett gave orders that so soon as any horse, or horses, came in sight,
the locomotive was to be stopped, and the frightful blast of the engine thus suspended until
the passing animals had got out of hearing.  Much interruption was thus caused to the working
of the railway, and it excited considerable dissatisfaction amongst the workmen.  The following
plan was adopted to abate the nuisance: a reservoir was provided immediately behind the chimney
(as shown in the preceding cut) into which the waste steam was thrown after it had performed
its office in the cylinder; and from this reservoir, the steam gradually escaped into the atmosphere
without noise.

While Mr. Blackett was thus experimenting and building locomotives at Wylam, George Stephenson
was anxiously studying the same subject at Killingworth.  He was no sooner appointed engine-wright
of the collieries than his attention was directed to the means of more economically hauling
the coal from the pits to the river-side.  We have seen that one of the first important improvements
which he made, after being placed in charge of the colliery machinery, was to apply the surplus
power of a pumping steam-engine, fixed underground, to drawing the coals out of the deeper
workings of the Killingworth mines,—by which he succeeded in effecting a large reduction in
the expenditure on manual and horse labour.

The coals, when brought above ground, had next to be laboriously dragged by horses to the shipping
staiths on the Tyne, several miles distant. The adoption of a tramroad, it is true, had tended
to facilitate their transit.  Nevertheless the haulage was both tedious and costly.  With the
view of economising labour, Stephenson laid down inclined planes where the nature of the ground
would admit of this expedient.  Thus, a train of full waggons let down the incline by means
of a rope running over wheels laid along the tramroad, the other end of which was attached
to a train of empty waggons placed at the bottom of the parallel road on the same incline,
dragged them up by the simple power of gravity.  But this applied only to a comparatively small
part of the road.  An economical method of working the coal trains, instead of by horses,—the
keep of which was at that time very costly, from the high price of corn,—was still a great
desideratum; and the best practical minds in the collieries were actively engaged in the attempt
to solve the problem.

In the first place Stephenson resolved to make himself thoroughly acquainted with what had
already been done.  Mr. Blackett’s engines were working daily at Wylam, past the cottage where
he had been born; and thither he frequently went to inspect the improvements made by Mr. Blackett
from time to time both in the locomotive and in the plateway along which it worked.  Jonathan
Foster informed us that, after one of these visits, Stephenson declared to him his conviction
that a much more effective engine might be made, that should work more steadily and draw the
load more effectively.

He had also the advantage, about the same time, of seeing one of Blenkinsop’s Leeds engines,
which was placed on the tramway leading from the collieries of Kenton and Coxlodge, on the
2nd September, 1813.  This locomotive drew sixteen chaldron waggons containing an aggregate
weight of seventy tons, at the rate of about three miles an hour.  George Stephenson and several
of the Killingworth men were amongst the crowd of spectators that day; and after examining
the engine and observing its performances, he observed to his companions, that “he thought
he could make a better engine than that, to go upon legs.”  Probably he had heard of the invention
of Brunton, whose patent had by this time been published, and proved the subject of much curious
speculation in the colliery districts.  Certain it is, that, shortly after the inspection of
the Coxlodge engine, he contemplated the construction of a new locomotive, which was to surpass
all that had preceded it.  He observed that those engines which had been constructed up to
this time, however ingenious in their arrangements, had proved practical failures.  Mr. Blackett’s
was as yet both clumsy and expensive.  Chapman’s had been removed from the Heaton tramway in
1812, and was regarded as a total failure.  And the Blenkinsop engine at Coxlodge was found
very unsteady and costly in its working; besides, it pulled the rails to pieces, the entire
strain being upon the rack-rail on one side of the road.  The boiler, however, having soon
after blown up, there was an end of that engine; and the colliery owners did not feel encouraged
to try any further experiment.

An efficient and economical working locomotive, therefore, still remained to be invented; and
to accomplish this object Mr. Stephenson now applied himself.  Profiting by what his predecessors
had done, warned by their failures and encouraged by their partial successes, he commenced
his labours.  There was still wanting the man who should accomplish for the locomotive what
James Watt had done for the steam-engine, and combine in a complete form the best points in
the separate plans of others, embodying with them such original inventions and adaptations
of his own as to entitle him to the merit of inventing the working locomotive, in the same
manner as James Watt is to be regarded as the inventor of the working condensing-engine.  This
was the great work upon which George Stephenson now entered, though probably without any adequate
idea of the ultimate importance of his labours to society and civilization.

He proceeded to bring the subject of constructing a “Travelling Engine,” as he then denominated
the locomotive, under the notice of the lessees of the Killingworth Colliery, in the year 1813.
Lord Ravensworth, the principal partner, had already formed a very favourable opinion of the
new engine-wright, from the improvements which he had effected in the colliery engines, both
above and below ground; and, after considering the matter, and hearing Stephenson’s explanations,
he authorised him to proceed with the construction of a locomotive,—though his lordship was,
by some, called a fool for advancing money for such a purpose.  “The first locomotive that
I made,” said Stephenson, many years after, {82} when speaking of his early career at a public
meeting in Newcastle, “was at Killingworth Colliery, and with Lord Ravensworth’s money.  Yes;
Lord Ravensworth and partners were the first to entrust me, thirty-two years since, with money
to make a locomotive engine.  I said to my friends, there was no limit to the speed of such
an engine, if the works could be made to stand.”

Our engine-wright had, however, many obstacles to encounter before he could get fairly to work
with the erection of his locomotive.  His chief difficulty was in finding workmen sufficiently
skilled in mechanics, and in the use of tools, to follow his instructions and embody his designs
in a practical shape.  The tools then in use about the collieries were rude and clumsy; and
there were no such facilities as now exist for turning out machinery of an entirely new character.
Stephenson was under the necessity of working with such men and tools as were at his command;
and he had in a great measure to train and instruct the workmen himself.  The engine was built
in the workshops at the West Moor, the leading mechanic employed being the colliery blacksmith,
an excellent workman in his way, though quite new to the work now entrusted to him.

In this first locomotive constructed at Killingworth, Stephenson to some extent followed the
plan of Blenkinsop’s engine.  The boiler was cylindrical, of wrought iron, 8 feet in length
and 34 inches in diameter, with an internal flue-tube 20 inches wide passing through it.  In
order to neutralise as much as possible the jolts and shocks which such an engine would necessarily
encounter from the obstacles and inequalities of the then very imperfect plateway, the water-barrel
which served for a tender was fixed to the end of a lever and weighted, the other end of the
lever being connected with the frame of the locomotive carriage.  By this means the weight
of the two was more equally distributed, though the contrivance did not by any means compensate
for the absence of springs.

                         [Picture: The Spur-gear]

The wheels of the locomotive were all smooth, Mr. Stephenson having satisfied himself by experiment
that the adhesion between the wheels of a loaded engine and the rail would be sufficient for
the purpose of traction.  Robert Stephenson informed us that his father caused a number of
workmen to mount upon the wheels of a waggon moderately loaded, and throw their entire weight
upon the spokes on one side, when he found that the waggon could thus be easily propelled forward
without the wheels slipping.  This, together with other experiments, satisfied him of the expediency
of adopting smooth wheels on his engine, and it was so finished accordingly.

The engine was, after much labour and anxiety, and frequent alterations of parts, at length
brought to completion, having been about ten months in hand.  It was placed upon the Killingworth
Railway on the 25th July, 1814; and its powers were tried on the same day.  On an ascending
gradient of 1 in 450, the engine succeeded in drawing after it eight loaded carriages of thirty
tons’ weight at about four miles an hour; and for some time after it continued regularly at work.

Although a considerable advance upon previous locomotives, “Blutcher” (as the engine was popularly
called) was nevertheless a somewhat cumbrous and clumsy machine.  The parts were huddled together.
The boiler constituted the principal feature; and being the foundation of the other parts,
it was made to do duty not only as a generator of steam, but also as a basis for the fixings
of the machinery and for the bearings of the wheels and axles.  The want of springs was seriously
felt; and the progress of the engine was a succession of jolts, causing considerable derangement
to the machinery.  The mode of communicating the motive power to the wheels by means of the
spur-gear also caused frequent jerks, each cylinder alternately propelling or becoming propelled
by the other, as the pressure of the one upon the wheels became greater or less than the pressure
of the other; and when the teeth of the cogwheels became at all worn, a rattling noise was
produced during the travelling of the engine.

As the principal test of the success of the locomotive was its economy as compared with horse
power, careful calculations were made with the view of ascertaining this important point. 
The result was, that it was found the working of the engine was at first barely economical;
and at the end of the year the steam power and the horse power were ascertained to be as nearly
as possible upon a par in point of cost.  The fate of the locomotive in a great measure depended
on this very engine.  Its speed was not beyond that of a horse’s walk, and the heating surface
presented to the fire being comparatively small, sufficient steam could not be raised to enable
it to accomplish more on an average than about four miles an hour.  The result was anything
but decisive; and the locomotive might have been condemned as useless, had not our engineer
at this juncture applied the steam-blast, and by its means carried his experiment to a triumphant
issue.

The steam, after performing its duty in the cylinders, was at first allowed to escape into
the open atmosphere with a hissing blast, to the terror of horses and cattle.  It was complained
of as a nuisance; and an action at law against the colliery lessees was threatened unless it
was stopped.  Stephenson’s attention had been drawn to the much greater velocity with which
the steam issued from the exit pipe compared with that at which the smoke escaped from the
chimney.  He conceived that, by conveying the eduction steam into the chimney, by means of
a small pipe, after it had performed its office in the cylinders, allowing it to escape in
a vertical direction, its velocity would be imparted to the smoke from the fire, or to the
ascending current of air in the chimney, thereby increasing the draft, and consequently the
intensity of combustion in the furnace.

The experiment was no sooner made than the power of the engine was at once more than doubled;
combustion was stimulated by the blast; consequently the capability of the boiler to generate
steam was greatly increased, and the effective power of the engine augmented in precisely the
same proportion, without in any way adding to its weight.  This simple but beautiful expedient
was really fraught with the most important consequences to railway communication; and it is
not too much to say that the success of the locomotive has in a great measure been the result
of its adoption.  Without the steam-blast, by means of which the intensity of combustion is
maintained at its highest point, producing a correspondingly rapid evolution of steam, high
rates of speed could not have been kept up; the advantages of the multi-tubular boiler (afterwards
invented) could never have been fairly tested; and locomotives might still have been dragging
themselves unwieldily along at little more than five or six miles an hour.

The steam-blast had scarcely been adopted, with so decided a success, when Stephenson, observing
the numerous defects in his engine, and profiting by the experience which he had already acquired,
determined to construct a second engine, in which to embody his improvements in their best
form.  Careful and cautious observation of the working of his locomotive had convinced him
that the complication arising out of the action of the two cylinders being combined by spur-wheels
would prevent its coming into practical use.  He accordingly directed his attention to an entire
change in the construction and mechanical arrangements of the machine; and in the following
year, conjointly with Mr. Dodds, who provided the necessary funds, he took out a patent, dated
the 28th of February, 1815, for an engine which combined in a remarkable degree the essential
requisites of an economical locomotive; that is to say, few parts, simplicity in their action,
and directness in the mode by which the power was communicated to the wheels supporting the engine.

This locomotive, like the first, had two vertical cylinders, which communicated directly with
each pair of the four wheels that supported the engine, by means of a cross head and a pair
of connecting rods.  But in attempting to establish a direct communication between the cylinders
and the wheels that rolled upon the rails, considerable difficulties presented themselves.
The ordinary joints could not be employed to unite the parts of the engine, which was a rigid
mass, with the wheels lolling upon the irregular surface of the rails; for it was evident that
the two rails of the line of way—more especially in those early days of imperfect construction
of the permanent road—could not always be maintained at the same level,—that the wheel at one
end of the axle might be depressed into one part of the line which had subsided, whilst the
other wheel would be comparatively elevated; and in such a position of the axle and wheels,
it was obvious that a rigid communication between the cross head and the wheels was impracticable.
Hence it became necessary to form a joint at the top of the piston-rod where it united with
the cross head, so as to permit the cross head to preserve complete parallelism with the axle
of the wheels with which it was in communication.

In order to obtain that degree of flexibility combined with direct action, which was essential
for ensuring power and avoiding needless friction and jars from irregularities in the road,
Stephenson made use of the “ball and socket” joint for effecting a union between the ends of
the cross heads where they united with the connecting rods, and between the ends of the connecting
rods where they were united with the crank-pins attached to each driving-wheel.  By this arrangement
the parallelism between the cross head and the axle was at all times maintained and preserved,
without producing any serious jar or friction on any part of the machine.  Another important
point was, to combine each pair of wheels by means of some simple mechanism instead of by the
cogwheels which had formerly been used.  And, with this object, Stephenson made cranks in each
axle at right angles to each other, with rods communicating horizontally between them.

A locomotive was constructed upon this plan in 1815, and was found to answer extremely well.
But at that period the mechanical skill of the country was not equal to forging cranked axles
of the soundness and strength necessary to stand the jars incident to locomotive work. Stephenson
was accordingly compelled to fall back upon a substitute, which, although less simple and efficient,
was within the mechanical capabilities of the workmen of that day, in respect of construction
as well as repair.  He adopted a chain which rolled over indented wheels placed on the centre
of each axle, and was so arranged that the two pairs of wheels were effectually coupled and
made to keep pace with each other. The chain, however, after a few years’ use, became stretched;
and then the engines were liable to irregularity in their working, especially in changing from
working back to working forward again.  Eventually the chain was laid aside, and the front
and hind wheels were united by rods on the outside, instead of by rods and crank axles inside,
as specified in the original patent.  This expedient completely answered the purpose required,
without involving any expensive or difficult workmanship.

Thus, in 1815, by dint of patient and persevering labour,—by careful observation of the works
of others, and never neglecting to avail himself of their suggestions,—Stephenson succeeded
in manufacturing an engine which included the following important improvements on all previous
attempts in the same direction:—viz., simple and direct communication between the cylinders
and the wheels rolling upon the rails; joint adhesion of all the wheels, attained by the use
of horizontal connecting-rods; and finally, a beautiful method of exciting the combustion of
the fuel by employing the waste steam, which had formerly been allowed to escape uselessly
into the air.  Although many improvements in detail were afterwards introduced in the locomotive
by George Stephenson himself, as well as by his equally distinguished son, it is perhaps not
too much to say that this engine, as a mechanical contrivance, contained the germ of all that
has since been effected.  It may in fact be regarded as the type of the present locomotive engine.

CHAPTER VI. INVENTION OF THE “GEORDY” SAFETY-LAMP.

Explosions of fire-damp were unusually frequent in the coal mines of Northumberland and Durham
about the time when George Stephenson was engaged in the construction of his first locomotives.
These explosions were often attended with fearful loss of life and dreadful suffering to the
workpeople.  Killingworth Colliery was not free from such deplorable calamities; and during
the time that Stephenson was employed as a brakesman at the West Moor, several “blasts” took
place in the pit, by which many workmen were scorched and killed, and the owners of the colliery
sustained heavy losses.  One of the most serious of these accidents occurred in 1806, not long
after he had been appointed brakesman, by which 10 persons were killed.  Stephenson was working
at the mouth of the pit at the time, and the circumstances connected with the accident made
a deep impression on his mind.

Another explosion took place in the same pit in 1809, by which 12 persons lost their lives.
The blast did not reach the shaft as in the former case; the unfortunate persons in the pit
having been suffocated by the after-damp.  More calamitous still were the explosions which
took place in the neighbouring collieries; one of the worst being that of 1812, in the Felling
Pit, near Gateshead, by which no fewer than 90 men and boys were suffocated or burnt to death.
And a similar accident occurred in the same pit in the year following, by which 22 persons
perished.

It was natural that George Stephenson should devote his attention to the causes of these deplorable
accidents, and to the means by which they might if possible be prevented.  His daily occupation
led him to think much and deeply on the subject.  As engine-wright of a colliery so extensive
as that of Killingworth, where there were nearly 160 miles of gallery excavation, in which
he personally superintended the working of the inclined planes along which the coals were sent
to the pit entrance, he was necessarily very often underground, and brought face to face with
the dangers of fire-damp.  From fissures in the roofs of the galleries, carburetted hydrogen
gas was constantly flowing; in some of the more dangerous places it might be heard escaping
from the crevices of the coal with a hissing noise.  Ventilation, firing, and all conceivable
modes of drawing out the foul air had been adopted, and the more dangerous parts of the galleries
were built up.  Still the danger could not be wholly prevented.  The miners must necessarily
guide their steps through the extensive underground ways with lighted lamps or candles, the
naked flame of which, coming in contact with the inflammable air, daily exposed them and their
fellow-workers in the pit to the risk of death in one of its most dreadful forms.

One day, in 1814, a workman hurried into Stephenson’s cottage with the startling information
that the deepest main of the colliery was on fire! He immediately hastened to the pit-head,
about a hundred yards off, whither the women and children of the colliery were running, with
wildness and terror depicted in every face.  In a commanding voice Stephenson ordered the engineman
to lower him down the shaft in the corve.  There was peril, it might be death, before him,
but he must go.

He was soon at the bottom, and in the midst of the men, who were paralysed by the danger which
threatened the lives of all in the pit. Leaping from the corve on its touching the ground,
he called out; “Are there six men among you who have courage to follow me?  If so, come, and
we will put the fire out.”  The Killingworth pitmen had the most perfect confidence in their
engine-wright, and they readily volunteered to follow him.

                    [Picture: The Pit Head, West Moor]

Silence succeeded the frantic tumult of the previous minute, and the men set to work with a
will.  In every mine, bricks, mortar, and tools enough are at hand, and by Stephenson’s direction
the materials were forthwith carried to the required spot, where, in a very short time a wall
was raised at the entrance to the main, he himself taking the most active part in the work.
The atmospheric air was by this means excluded, the fire was extinguished, the people were
saved from death, and the mine was preserved.

This anecdote of Stephenson was related to the writer, near the pit-mouth, by one of the men
who had been present and helped to build up the brick wall by which the fire was stayed, though
several workmen were suffocated.  He related that, when down the pit some days after, seeking
out the dead bodies, the cause of the accident was the subject of conversation, and Stephenson
was asked, “Can nothing be done to prevent such awful occurrences?”  His reply was that he
thought something might be done.  “Then,” said the other, “the sooner you start the better;
for the price of coal-mining now is pitmen’s lives.”

Fifty years since, many of the best pits were so full of the inflammable gas given forth by
the coal, that they could not be worked without the greatest danger; and for this reason some
were altogether abandoned, The rudest possible methods were adopted of producing light sufficient
to enable the pitmen to work by.  The phosphorescence of decayed fish-skins was tried; but
this, though safe, was very inefficient.  The most common method employed was what was called
a steel mill, the notched wheel of which, being made to revolve against a flint, struck a succession
of sparks, which scarcely served to do more than make the darkness visible. A boy carried the
apparatus after the miner, working the wheel, and by the imperfect light thus given forth he
plied his dangerous trade. Candles were only used in those parts of the pit where gas was not
abundant.  Under this rude system not more than one-third of the coal could be worked; and
two-thirds were left.

What the workmen, not less than the coal-owners, eagerly desired was, a lamp that should give
forth sufficient light, without communicating flame to the inflammable gas which accumulated
in certain parts of the pit. Something had already been attempted towards the invention of
such a lamp by Dr. Clanny, of Sunderland, who, in 1813, contrived an apparatus to which he
gave air from the mine through water, by means of bellows.  This lamp went out of itself in
inflammable gas.  It was found, however, too unwieldy to be used by the miners for the purposes
of their work, and did not come into general use.  A committee of gentlemen was formed to investigate
the causes of the explosions, and to devise, if possible, some means of preventing them.  At
the invitation of that Committee, Sir Humphry Davy, then in the full zenith of his reputation,
was requested to turn his attention to the subject.  He accordingly visited the collieries
near Newcastle on the 24th of August, 1815; and on the 9th of November following, he read before
the Royal Society of London his celebrated paper “On the Fire-Damp of Coal Mines, and on Methods
of lighting the Mine so as to prevent its explosion.”

But a humbler though not less diligent and original thinker had been at work before him, and
had already practically solved the problem of the Safety-Lamp.  Stephenson was of course well
aware of the anxiety which prevailed in the colliery districts as to the invention of a lamp
which should give light enough for the miners to work by without exploding the fire-damp. 
The painful incidents above described only served to quicken his eagerness to master the difficulty.

For several years he had been engaged, in his own rude way, in making experiments with the
fire-damp in the Killingworth mine.  The pitmen used to expostulate with him on these occasions,
believing his experiments to be fraught with danger.  One of the sinkers, observing him holding
up lighted candles to the windward of the “blower” or fissure from which the inflammable gas
escaped, entreated him to desist; but Stephenson’s answer was, that “he was busy with a plan
by which he hoped to make his experiments useful for preserving men’s lives.”  On these occasions
the miners usually got out of the way before he lit the gas.

In 1815, although he was very much occupied with the business of the collieries and the improvement
of his locomotive engine, he was also busily engaged in making experiments upon inflammable
gas in the Killingworth pit.  According to the explanation afterwards given by him, he imagined
that if he could construct a lamp with a chimney so arranged as to cause a strong current,
it would not fire at the top of the chimney; as the burnt air would ascend with such a velocity
as to prevent the inflammable air of the pit from descending towards the flame; and such a
lamp, he thought, might be taken into a dangerous atmosphere without risk of exploding.

Such was Stephenson’s theory when he proceeded to embody his idea of a miner’s safety-lamp
in a practical form.  In the month of August, 1815, he requested his friend Nicholas Wood,
the head viewer, to prepare a drawing of a lamp according to the description which he gave
him.  After several evenings’ careful deliberations, the drawing was made, and shown to several
of the head men about the works.

Stephenson proceeded to order a lamp to be made by a Newcastle tinman, according to his plan;
and at the same time he directed a glass to be made for the lamp at the Northumberland Glass
House.  Both were received by him from the makers on the 21st October, and the lamp was taken
to Killingworth for the purpose of immediate experiment.

“I remember that evening as distinctly as if it had been but yesterday,” said Robert Stephenson,
describing the circumstances to the author in 1857: “Moodie came to our cottage about dusk,
and asked, ‘if father had got back yet with the lamp?’  ‘No.’  ‘Then I’ll wait till he comes,’
said Moodie, ‘he can’t be long now.’  In about half-an-hour, in came my father, his face all
radiant.  He had the lamp with him!  It was at once uncovered, and shown to Moodie.  Then it
was filled with oil, trimmed, and lighted.  All was ready, only the head viewer hadn’t arrived.
‘Run over to Benton for Nichol, Robert,’ said my father to me, ‘and ask him to come directly;
say we’re going down the pit to try the lamp.’  By this time it was quite dark; and off I ran
to bring Nicholas Wood.  His house was at Benton, about a mile off.  There was a short cut
through the Churchyard, but just as I was about to pass the wicket, I saw what I thought was
a white figure moving about amongst the grave-stones.  I took it for a ghost!  My heart fluttered,
and I was in a great fright, but to Wood’s house I must get, so I made the circuit of the Churchyard;
and when I got round to the other side I looked, and lo! the figure was still there.  But what
do you think it was?  Only the grave-digger, plying his work at that late hour by the light
of his lanthorn set upon one of the gravestones!  I found Wood at home, and in a few minutes
he was mounted and off to my father’s.  When I got back, I was told they had just left—it was
then about eleven—and gone down the shaft to try the lamp in one of the most dangerous parts
of the mine.”

Arrived at the bottom of the shaft with the lamp, the party directed their steps towards one
of the foulest galleries in the pit, where the explosive gas was issuing through a blower in
the roof of the mine with a loud hissing noise.  By erecting some deal boarding round that
part of the gallery into which the gas was escaping, the air was made more foul for the purpose
of the experiment.  After waiting about an hour, Moodie, whose practical experience of fire-damp
in pits was greater than that of either Stephenson or Wood, was requested to go into the place
which had thus been made foul; and, having done so, he returned, and told them that the smell
of the air was such, that if a lighted candle were now introduced, an explosion must inevitably
take place.  He cautioned Stephenson as to the danger both to themselves and to the pit, if
the gas took fire.  But Stephenson declared his confidence in the safety of his lamp, and,
having lit the wick, he boldly proceeded with it towards the explosive air.  The others, more
timid and doubtful, hung back when they came within hearing of the blower; and apprehensive
of the danger, they retired into a safe place, out of sight of the lamp, which gradually disappeared
with its bearer in the recesses of the mine. {95}

Advancing to the place of danger, and entering within the fouled air, his lighted lamp in hand,
Stephenson held it finally out, in the full current of the blower, and within a few inches
of its mouth.  Thus exposed, the flame of the lamp at first increased, then flickered, and
then went out; but there was no explosion of the gas.  Returning to his companions, who were
still at a distance, he told them what had occurred.  Having now acquired somewhat more confidence,
they advanced with him to a point from which they could observe him repeat his experiment,
but still at a safe distance.  They saw that when the lighted lamp was held within the explosive
mixture, there was a great flame; the lamp became almost full of fire; and then it smothered
out.  Again returning to his companions, he relighted the lamp, and repeated the experiment
several times with the same result.  At length Wood and Moodie ventured to advance close to
the fouled part of the pit; and, in making some of the later trials, Mr. Wood himself held
up the lighted lamp to the blower.

Before leaving the pit, Stephenson expressed his opinion that by an alteration of the lamp
which he then contemplated, he could make it burn better; this was by a change in the slide
through which the air was admitted into the lower part, under the flame.  After making some
experiments on the air collected at the blower, by bladders which were mounted with tubes of
various diameters, he satisfied himself that, when the tube was reduced to a certain diameter,
the foul air would not pass through; and he fashioned his slide accordingly, reducing the diameter
of the tube until he conceived it was quite safe.  In about a fortnight the experiments were
repeated, in a place purposely made foul as before; on this occasion a larger number of persons
ventured to witness them, and they again proved successful.  The lamp was not yet, however,
so efficient as the inventor desired.  It required, he observed, to be kept very steady when
burning in the inflammable gas, otherwise it was liable to go out, in consequence, as he imagined,
of the contact of the burnt air (as he then called it), or azotic gas, which lodged round the
exterior of the flame.  If the lamp was moved horizontally, the azote came in contact with
the flame and extinguished it.  “It struck me,” said he, “that if I put more tubes in, I should
discharge the poisonous matter that hung round the flame, by admitting the air to its exterior
part.” Although he had then no access to scientific books, nor intercourse with scientific
men, nor anything that could assist him in his investigation, besides his own indefatigable
spirit of inquiry, he contrived a rude apparatus by which he tested the explosive properties
of the gas and the velocity of current (for this was the direction of his inquiries) necessary
to enable the explosive gas to pass through tubes of different diameters.  In making these
experiments in his humble cottage at the West Moor, Nicholas Wood and George’s son Robert usually
acted as his assistants, and sometimes the gentlemen of the neighbourhood interested in coal-mining
attended as spectators.

These experiments were not performed without risk, for on one occasion the experimenting party
had nearly blown off the roof of the cottage. One of these “blows up” was described by Stephenson
himself before the Committee on Accidents in Coal Mines, in 1835: “I made several experiments,”
said he, “as to the velocity required in tubes of different diameters, to prevent explosion
from fire-damp.  We made the mixtures in all proportions of light carburetted hydrogen with
atmospheric air in the receiver, and we found by the experiments that when a current of the
most explosive mixture that we could make was forced up a tube 4/10 of an inch in diameter,
the necessary current was 9 inches in a second to prevent its coming down that tube.  These
experiments were repeated several times.  We had two or three blows up in making the experiments,
by the flame getting down into the receiver, though we had a piece of very fine wire-gauze
put at the bottom of the pipe, between the receiver and the pipe through which we were forcing
the current.  In one of these experiments I was watching the flame in the tube, my son was
taking the vibrations of the pendulum of the clock, and Mr. Wood was attending to give me the
column of water as I called for it, to keep the current up to a certain point.  As I saw the
flame descending in the tube I called for more water, and Wood unfortunately turned the cock
the wrong way, the current ceased, the flame went down the tube, and all our implements were
blown to pieces, which at the time we were not very able to replace.”

Stephenson followed up those experiments by others of a similar kind, with the view of ascertaining
whether ordinary flame would pass through tubes of a small diameter and with this object he
filed off the barrels of several small keys.  Placing these together, he held them perpendicularly
over a strong flame, and ascertained that it did not pass upward.  This was a further proof
to him of the soundness of the course he was pursuing.

In order to correct the defect of his first lamp he resolved to alter it so as to admit the
air to the flame by several tubes of reduced diameter, instead of by a single tube.  He inferred
that a sufficient quantity of air would thus be introduced into the lamp for the purposes of
combustion, while the smallness of the apertures would still prevent the explosive gas passing
downwards, at the same time that the “burnt air” (the cause, in his opinion, of the lamp going
out) would be more effectually dislodged.  He accordingly took the lamp to a tinman in Newcastle,
and had it altered so that the air was admitted by three small tubes inserted in the bottom
of the lamp, the openings of which were placed on the outside of the burner, instead of having
(as in the original lamp) the one tube opening directly under the flame.

This second or altered lamp was tried in the Killingworth pit on the 4th November, and was
found to burn better than the first, and to be perfectly safe.  But as it did not yet come
quite up to the inventor’s expectations, he proceeded to contrive a third lamp, in which he
proposed to surround the oil vessel with a number of capillary tubes.  Then it struck him,
that if he cut off the middle of the tubes, or made holes in metal plates, placed at a distance
from each other, equal to the length of the tubes, the air would get in better, and the effect
in preventing explosion would be the same.

He was encouraged to persevere in the completion of his safety-lamp by the occurrence of several
fatal accidents about this time in the Killingworth pit.  On the 9th November a boy was killed
by a blast in the A pit, at the very place where Stephenson had made the experiments with his
first lamp; and, when told of the accident, he observed that if the boy had been provided with
his lamp, his life would have been saved.  On the 20th November he went over to Newcastle to
order his third lamp from a plumber in that town.  The plumber referred him to his clerk, whom
Stephenson invited to join him at a neighbouring public-house, where they might quietly talk
over the matter, and finally settle the plan of the new lamp.  They adjourned to the “Newcastle
Arms,” near the present High Level Bridge, where they had some ale, and a design of the lamp
was drawn in pencil upon a half-sheet of foolscap, with a rough specification subjoined.  The
sketch, when shown to us by Robert Stephenson some years since, still bore the marks of the
ale.  It was a very rude design, but sufficient to work from.  It was immediately placed in
the hands of the workmen, finished in the course of a few days, and experimentally tested in
the Killingworth pit like the previous lamps, on the 30th November. At that time neither Stephenson
nor Wood had heard of Sir Humphry Davy’s experiments nor of the lamp which that gentleman proposed
to construct.

An angry controversy afterwards took place as to the respective merits of George Stephenson
and Sir Humphry Davy in respect of the invention of the safety-lamp.  A committee was formed
on both sides, and the facts were stated in various ways.  It is perfectly clear, however,
that Stephenson had ascertained the fact that flame will not pass through tubes of a certain
diameter—the principle on which the safety-lamp is constructed—before Sir Humphry Davy had
formed any definite idea on the subject, or invented the model lamp afterwards exhibited by
him before the Royal Society.  Stephenson had actually constructed a lamp on such a principle,
and proved its safety, before Sir Humphry had communicated his views on the subject to any
person; and by the time that the first public intimation had been given of his discovery, Stephenson’s
second lamp had been constructed and tested in like manner in the Killingworth pit.  The first
was tried on the 21st October, 1815; the second was tried on the 4th November; but it was not
until the 9th November that Sir Humphry Davy presented his first lamp to the public.  And by
the 30th of the same month, as we have seen, Stephenson had constructed and tested his third
safety-lamp.

             [Picture: Davy’s and Stephenson’s Safety Lamps]

Stephenson’s theory of the “burnt air” and the “draught” was no doubt wrong; but his lamp was
right, and that was the great fact which mainly concerned him.  Torricelli did not know the
rationale of his tube, nor Otto Gürike that of his air-pump; yet no one thinks of denying them
the merit of their inventions on that account.  The discoveries of Volta and Galvani were in
like manner independent of theory; the greatest discoveries consisting in bringing to light
certain grand facts, on which theories are afterwards framed.  Our inventor had been pursuing
the Baconian method, though he did not think of that, but of inventing a safe lamp, which he
knew could only be done through the process of repeated experiment.  He experimented upon the
fire-damp at the blowers in the mine, and also by means of the apparatus which was blown up
in his cottage, as above described by himself.  By experiment he distinctly ascertained that
the explosion of fire-damp could not pass through small tubes; and he also did what had not
before been done by any inventor—he constructed a lamp on this principle, and repeatedly proved
its safety at the risk of his life.  At the same time, there is no doubt that it was to Sir
Humphry Davy that the merit belonged of having pointed out the true law on which the safety-lamp
is constructed.

The subject of this important invention excited so much interest in the northern mining districts,
and Stephenson’s numerous friends considered his lamp so completely successful—having stood
the test of repeated experiments—that they urged him to bring his invention before the Philosophical
and Literary Society of Newcastle, of whose apparatus he had availed himself in the course
of his experiments on fire-damp.  After much persuasion he consented, and a meeting was appointed
for the purpose of receiving his explanations, on the evening of the 5th December, 1815. Stephenson
was at that time so diffident in manner and unpractised in speech, that he took with him his
friend Nicholas Wood, to act as his interpreter and expositor on the occasion.  From eighty
to a hundred of the most intelligent members of the society were present at the meeting, when
Mr. Wood stood forward to expound the principles on which the lamp had been formed, and to
describe the details of its construction. Several questions were put, to which Mr. Wood proceeded
to give replies to the best of his knowledge.  But Stephenson, who up to that time had stood
behind Wood, screened from notice, observing that the explanations given were not quite correct,
could no longer control his reserve, and, standing forward, he proceeded in his strong Northumbrian
dialect, to describe the lamp, down to its minutest details.  He then produced several bladders
full of carburetted hydrogen, which he had collected from the blowers in the Killingworth mine,
and proved the safety of his lamp by numerous experiments with the gas, repeated in various
ways; his earnest and impressive manner exciting in the minds of his auditors the liveliest
interest both in the inventor and his invention.

Shortly after, Sir H. Davy’s model lamp was received and exhibited to the coal-miners at Newcastle,
on which occasion the observation was made by several gentlemen, “Why, it is the same as Stephenson’s!”

Notwithstanding Stephenson’s claim to be regarded as the first inventor of the Tube Safety-lamp,
his merits do not seem to have been generally recognised; and Sir Humphry Davy carried off
the larger share of the éclat which attached to the discovery.  What chance had the unknown
workman of Killingworth with so distinguished a competitor?  The one was as yet but a colliery
engine-wright, scarce raised above the manual-labour class, pursuing his experiments in obscurity,
with a view only to usefulness; the other was the scientific prodigy of his day, the most brilliant
of lecturers, and the most popular of philosophers.

No small indignation was expressed by the friends of Sir Humphry Davy at Stephenson’s “presumption”
in laying claim to the invention of the safety-lamp.  In 1831 Dr. Paris, in his ‘Life of Sir
Humphry Davy,’ thus wrote:—“It will hereafter be scarcely believed that an invention so eminently
scientific, and which could never have been derived but from the sterling treasury of science,
should have been claimed on behalf of an engine-wright of Killingworth, of the name of Stephenson—a
person not even possessing a knowledge of the elements of chemistry.”

But Stephenson was far above claiming for himself any invention not his own.  He had already
accomplished a far greater feat than the making of a safety-lamp—he had constructed a successful
locomotive, which was to be seen in daily work on the Killingworth railway.  By the improvements
he had made in the engine, he might almost be said to have invented it; but no one—not even
the philosophers—detected the significance of that wonderful machine.  What railways were to
become, rested in a great measure with that “engine-wright of Killingworth, of the name of
Stephenson,” though he was scarcely known as yet beyond the bounds of his own district.

As to the value of the invention of the safety-lamp there could be no doubt; and the colliery
owners of Durham and Northumberland, to testify their sense of its importance, determined to
present a testimonial to its inventor.  The friends of Sir H. Davy met in August, 1816, to
take steps for raising a subscription for the purpose.  The advertised object of the meeting
was to present him with a reward for “the invention of his safety-lamp.”  To this no objection
could be taken; for though the principle on which the safety-lamps of Stephenson and Davy were
constructed was the same; and although Stephenson’s lamp was, unquestionably, the first successful
lamp that had been constructed on such principle, and proved to be efficient,—yet Sir H. Davy
did invent a safety-lamp, no doubt quite independent of all that Stephenson had done; and having
directed his careful attention to the subject, and elucidated the true theory of explosion
of carburetted hydrogen, he was entitled to all praise and reward for his labours.  But when
the meeting of coal-owners proposed to raise a subscription for the purpose of presenting Sir
H. Davy with a reward for “his invention of the safety-lamp,” the case was entirely altered;
and Stephenson’s friends then proceeded to assert his claims to be regarded as its first inventor.

Many meetings took place on the subject, and much discussion ensued, the result of which was
that a sum of £2000 was presented to Sir Humphry Davy as “the inventor of the safety-lamp;”
but, at the same time, a purse of 100 guineas was voted to George Stephenson, in consideration
of what he had done in the same direction.  This result was, however very unsatisfactory to
Stephenson, as well as to his friends, and Mr. Brandling, of Gosforth, suggested to him that,
the subject being now fairly before the public, he should publish a statement of the facts
on which his claim was founded.

This was not at all in George’s line.  He had never appeared in print; and it seemed to him
a more formidable thing to write a letter for “the papers” than to invent a safety-lamp or
design a locomotive.  However, he called to his aid his son Robert, set him down before a sheet
of foolscap, and told him to “put down there just what I tell you.”  The composition of this
letter, as we were informed by the writer of it, occupied more evenings than one; and when
it was at length finished, after many corrections, and fairly copied out, the father and son
set out—the latter dressed in his Sunday’s round jacket—to lay the joint production before
Mr. Brandling, at Gosforth House.  Glancing over the letter, Mr. Brandling said, “George, this
will never do.”  “It is all true, sir,” was the reply.  “That may be; but it is badly written.”
Robert blushed, for he thought the penmanship was called in question, and he had written his
best.  Mr. Brandling, however, revised the letter, which was shortly after published in the
local journals.

Stephenson’s friends, fully satisfied of his claims to priority as the inventor of the safety-lamp
used in the Killingworth and other collieries, held a public meeting for the purpose of presenting
him with a reward “for the valuable service he had thus rendered to mankind.”  A subscription
was immediately commenced with this object, and a committee was formed, consisting of the Earl
of Strathmore, C. J. Brandling, and others.  The subscriptions, when collected, amounted to
£1000.  Part of the money was devoted to the purchase of a silver tankard, which was presented
to the inventor, together with the balance of the subscription, at a public dinner given in
the Assembly Rooms at Newcastle. {105}  But what gave Stephenson even greater pleasure than
the silver tankard and purse of sovereigns was the gift of a silver watch, purchased by small
subscriptions amongst the colliers themselves, and presented by them as a token of their personal
esteem and regard for him, as well as of their gratitude for the perseverance and skill with
which he had prosecuted his valuable and lifesaving invention to a successful issue.

However great the merits of Stephenson in connexion with the invention of the tube safety-lamp,
they cannot be regarded as detracting from the reputation of Sir Humphry Davy.  His inquiries
into the explosive properties of carburetted hydrogen gas were quite original; and his discovery
of the fact that explosion will not pass through tubes of a certain diameter was made independently
of all that Stephenson had done in verification of the same fact.  It even appears that Mr.
Smithson Tennant and Dr. Wollaston had observed the same fact several years before, though
neither Stephenson nor Davy knew it while they were prosecuting their experiments.  Sir Humphry
Davy’s subsequent modification of the tube-lamp, by which, while diminishing the diameter,
he in the same ratio shortened the tubes without danger, and in the form of wire-gauze enveloped
the safety-lamp by a multiplicity of tubes, was a beautiful application of the true theory
which he had formed upon the subject.

The increased number of accidents which have occurred from explosions in coal-mines since the
general introduction of the Davy lamp, have led to considerable doubts as to its safety, and
to inquiries as to the means by which it may be further improved; for experience has shown
that, under certain circumstances, the Davy lamp is not safe.  Stephenson was himself of opinion
that the modification of his own and Sir Humphry Davy’s lamp, combining the glass cylinder
with the wire-gauze, was the most secure; at the same time it must be admitted that the Davy
and the Geordy lamps alike failed to stand the severe tests to which they were submitted by
Dr. Pereira, before the Committee on Accidents in Mines. Indeed, Dr. Pereira did not hesitate
to say, that when exposed to a current of explosive gas the Davy lamp is “decidedly unsafe,”
and that the experiments by which its safety had been “demonstrated” in the lecture-room had
proved entirely “fallacious.”

It is worthy of remark, that under circumstances in which the wire-gauze of the Davy lamp becomes
red-hot from the high explosiveness of the gas, the Geordy lamp is extinguished; and we cannot
but think that this fact testifies to the decidedly superior safety of the Geordy.  An accident
occurred in the Oaks colliery Pit at Barnsley, on the 20th August, 1857, which strikingly exemplified
the respective qualities of the lamps.  A sudden outburst of gas took place from the floor
of the mine, along a distance of fifty yards.  Fortunately the men working in the pit at the
time were all supplied with safety-lamps—the hewers with Stephenson’s, and the hurriers with
Davy’s.  Upon this occasion, the whole of the Stephenson’s lamps, over a space of five hundred
yards, were extinguished almost instantaneously; whereas the Davy lamps were filled with fire,
and became red-hot—so much so, that several of the men using them had their hands burnt by
the gauze.  Had a strong current of air been blowing through the gallery at the time, an explosion
would most probably have taken place—an accident which, it will be observed, could not, under
such circumstances, occur from the use of the Geordy, which is immediately extinguished as
soon as the air becomes explosive. {107}

Nicholas Wood, a good judge, has said of the two inventions, “Priority has been claimed for
each of them—I believe the inventions to be parallel.  By different roads they both arrived
at the same result. Stephenson’s is the superior lamp.  Davy’s is safe—Stephenson’s is safer.”

When the question of priority was under discussion at the studio of Mr. Lough, the sculptor,
in 1857, Sir Matthew White Ridley asked Robert Stephenson, who was present, for his opinion
on the subject.

Stephenson’s experiments on fire-damp, and his labours in connexion with the invention of the
safety-lamp, occupied but a small portion of his time, which was necessarily devoted for the
most part to the ordinary business of the colliery.  From the day of his appointment as engine-wright,
one of the subjects which particularly occupied his attention was the best practical method
of winning and raising the coal. He was one of the first to introduce steam machinery underground
with the latter object.  Indeed, the Killingworth mines came to be regarded as the models of
the district; the working arrangements generally being conducted in a skilful and efficient
manner, reflecting the highest credit on the colliery engineer.

Besides attending to the underground arrangements, the improved transit of the coals above-ground
from the pithead to the shipping-place, demanded an increasing share of his attention.  Every
day’s experience convinced him that the locomotive constructed by him after his patent of the
year 1815, was far from perfect; though he continued to entertain confident hopes of its eventual
success.  He even went so far as to say that the locomotive would yet supersede every other
traction-power for drawing heavy loads.  Many still regarded his travelling engine as little
better than a curious toy; and some, shaking their heads, predicted for it “a terrible blow-up
some day.”  Nevertheless, it was daily performing its work with regularity, dragging the coal-waggons
between the colliery and the staiths, and saving the labour of many men and horses.  There
was not, however, so marked a saving in haulage as to induce the colliery masters to adopt
locomotive power generally as a substitute for horses. How it could be improved and rendered
more efficient as well as economical, was constantly present to Stephenson’s mind.

At an early period of his labours, or about the time when he had completed his second locomotive,
he began to direct his particular attention to the state of the Road; as he perceived that
the extended use of the locomotive must necessarily depend in a great measure upon the perfection,
solidity, continuity, and smoothness of the way along which the engine travelled.  Even at
that early period, he was in the habit of regarding the road and the locomotive as one machine,
speaking of the rail and the wheel as “man and wife.”

All railways were at that time laid in a careless and loose manner, and great inequalities
of level were allowed to occur without much attention being paid to repairs.  The consequence
was a great loss of power, as well as much tear and wear of the machinery, by the frequent
jolts and blows of the wheels against the rails.  His first object therefore was, to remove
the inequalities produced by the imperfect junction between rail and rail.  At that time, (in
1816) the rails were made of cast iron, each rail being about three feet long; and sufficient
care was not taken to maintain the points of junction on the same level.  The chairs, or cast-iron
pedestals into which the rails were inserted, were flat at the bottom; so that, whenever any
disturbance took place in the stone blocks or sleepers supporting them, the flat base of the
chair upon which the rails rested being tilted by unequal subsidence, the end of one rail became
depressed, whilst that of the other was elevated.  Hence constant jolts and shocks, the reaction
of which very often caused the fracture of the rails, and occasionally threw the engine off
the road.

To remedy this imperfection Mr. Stephenson devised a new chair, with an entirely new mode of
fixing the rails therein.  Instead of adopting the butt-joint which had hitherto been used
in all cast-iron rails, he adopted the half-lap joint, by which means the rails extended a
certain distance over each other at the ends, like a scarf-joint.  These ends, instead of resting
upon the flat chair, were made to rest upon the apex of a curve forming the bottom of the chair.
The supports were also extended from three feet to three feet nine inches or four feet apart.
These rails were accordingly substituted for the old cast-iron plates on the Killingworth Colliery
Railway, and they were found to be a very great improvement upon the previous system, adding
both to the efficiency of the horse-power, still employed in working the railway, and to the
smooth action of the locomotive engine, but more particularly increasing the efficiency of
the latter.

                        [Picture: Half-lap Joint]

This improved form of rail and chair was embodied in a patent taken out in the joint names
of Mr. Losh, of Newcastle, iron-founder, and of Mr. Stephenson, bearing date 30th September,
1816.  Mr. Losh being a wealthy, enterprising iron-manufacturer, and having confidence in George
Stephenson and his improvements, found the money for the purpose of taking out the patent,
which, in those days, was a very costly as well as troublesome affair.

The specification of the same patent also described various important improvements in the locomotive
itself.  The wheels of the engine were improved, being altered from cast to malleable iron,
in whole or in part, by which they were made lighter as well as more durable and safe.  But
the most ingenious and original contrivance embodied in this patent was the substitute for
springs which Mr. Stephenson invented.  He contrived that the steam generated in the boiler
should perform this important office.  The method by which this was effected displayed such
genuine mechanical genius, that we would particularly call attention to the device, which was
the more remarkable, as it was contrived long before the possibility of steam locomotion had
become an object of general inquiry or of public interest.

It has already been observed that up to, and indeed after, the period of which we speak, there
was no such class of skilled mechanics, nor were there any such machines and tools in use,
as are now available to inventors and manufacturers.  Although skilled workmen were in course
of gradual training in a few of the larger manufacturing towns, they did not, at the date of
Stephenson’s patent, exist in any considerable numbers, nor was there then any class of mechanics
capable of constructing springs of sufficient strength and elasticity to support locomotive
engines of ten tons weight.

In order to avoid the dangers arising from the inequalities of the road, Stephenson so arranged
the boiler of his new patent locomotive that it was supported upon the frame of the engine
by four cylinders, which opened into the interior of the boiler.  These cylinders were occupied
by pistons with rods, which passed downwards and pressed upon the upper side of the axles.
The cylinders opening into the interior of the boiler, allowed the pressure of steam to be
applied to the upper side of the piston; and the pressure being nearly equivalent to one-fourth
of the weight of the engine, each axle, whatever might be its position, had at all times nearly
the same amount of weight to bear, and consequently the entire weight was pretty equally distributed
amongst the four wheels of the locomotive.  Thus the four floating pistons were ingeniously
made to serve the purpose of springs in equalising the weight, and in softening the jerks of
the machine; the weight of which, it must also be observed, had been increased, on a road originally
calculated to bear a considerably lighter description of carriage.  This mode of supporting
the engine remained in use until the progress of spring-making had so far advanced that steel
springs could be manufactured of sufficient strength to bear the weight of locomotive engines.

           [Picture: Old Killingworth Locomotive, still in use]

The result of the actual working of the new locomotive on the improved road amply justified
the promises held forth in the specification.  The traffic was conducted with greater regularity
and economy, and the superiority of the engine, as compared with horse traction, became still
more marked.  It is a fact worthy of notice, that the identical engines constructed in 1816
after the plan above described are to this day to be seen in regular useful work upon the Killingworth
Railway, conveying heavy coal-trains at the speed of between five and six miles an hour, probably
as economically as any of the more perfect locomotives now in use.

Mr. Stephenson’s endeavours having been attended with such marked success in the adaptation
of locomotive power to railways, his attention was called by many of his friends, about the
year 1818, to the application of steam to travelling on common roads.  It was from this point
that the locomotive started, Trevithick’s first engine having been constructed with this special
object.  Stephenson’s friends having observed how far behind he had left the original projector
of the locomotive in its application to railroads, perhaps naturally inferred that he would
be equally successful in applying it to the purpose for which Trevithick and Vivian had intended
their first engine.  But the accuracy with which he estimated the resistance to which loads
were exposed on railways, arising from friction and gravity, led him at a very early stage
to reject the idea of ever applying steam power economically to common-road travelling. In
October, 1818, he made a series of careful experiments in conjunction with Nicholas Wood, on
the resistance to which carriages were exposed on railways, testing the results by means of
a dynamometer of his own construction.  The series of practical observations made by means
of this instrument were interesting, as the first systematic attempt to determine the precise
amount of resistance to carriages moving along railways.  It was then for the first time ascertained
by experiment that the friction was a constant quantity at all velocities.  Although this theory
had long before been developed by Vince and Coulomb, and was well known to scientific men as
an established truth, yet, at the time when Stephenson made his experiments, the deductions
of philosophers on the subject were neither believed in nor acted upon by practical engineers.

He ascertained that the resistances to traction were mainly three; the first being upon the
axles of the carriages, the second, or rolling resistance, being between the circumference
of the wheel and the surface of the rail, and the third being the resistance of gravity.  The
amount of friction and gravity he could accurately ascertain; but the rolling resistance was
a matter of greater difficulty, being subject to much variation.  He satisfied himself, however,
that it was so great when the surface presented to the wheel was of a rough character, that
the idea of working steam carriages economically on common roads was dismissed by him as entirely
impracticable.  Taking it as 10 lbs to a ton weight on a level railway, it became obvious to
him that so small a rise as 1 in 100 would diminish the useful effort of a locomotive by upwards
of 50 per cent.  This was demonstrated by repeated experiments, and the important fact, thus
rooted in his mind, was never lost sight of in the course of his future railway career.

It was owing in a great measure to these painstaking experiments that he early became convinced
of the vital importance, in an economical point of view, of reducing the country through which
a railway was intended to pass as nearly as possible to a level.  Where, as in the first coal
railways of Northumberland and Durham, the load was nearly all one way,—that is, from the colliery
to the shipping-place,—it was an advantage to have an inclination in that direction.  The strain
on the powers of the locomotive was thus diminished, and it was easy for it to haul the empty
waggons back to the colliery up even a pretty steep incline.  But when the loads were both
ways, he deemed it of great importance that the railroad should be constructed as nearly as
possible on a level.

These views, thus early entertained, originated in Stephenson’s mind the peculiar character
of railroad works as distinguished from other roads; for, in railways, he early contended that
large sums would be wisely expended in perforating barriers of hills with long tunnels, and
in raising the lower levels with the excess cut down from the adjacent high ground.  In proportion
as these views forced themselves upon his mind and were corroborated by his daily experience,
he became more and more convinced of the hopelessness of applying steam locomotion to common
roads; for every argument in favour of a level railway was, in his view, an argument against
the rough and hilly course of a common road.

Although Stephenson’s locomotive engines were in daily use for many years on the Killingworth
Railway, they excited comparatively little interest. They were no longer experimental, but
had become an established tractive power.  The experience of years had proved that they worked
more steadily, drew heavier loads, and were, on the whole, considerably more economical than
horses.  Nevertheless eight years passed before another locomotive railway was constructed
and opened for the purposes of coal or other traffic.

Stephenson had no means of bringing his important invention prominently under the notice of
the public.  He himself knew well its importance, and he already anticipated its eventual general
adoption; but being an unlettered man, he could not give utterance to the thoughts which brooded
within him on the subject.  Killingworth Colliery lay far from London, the centre of scientific
life in England.  It was visited by no savans nor literary men, who might have succeeded in
introducing to notice the wonderful machine of Stephenson.  Even the local chroniclers seem
to have taken no notice of the Killingworth Railway.

There seemed, indeed, to be so small a prospect of introducing the locomotive into general
use, that Stephenson,—perhaps feeling the capabilities within him,—again recurred to his old
idea of emigrating to the United States.  Before joining Mr. Burrel as partner in a small foundry
at Forth Banks, Newcastle, he had thrown out to him the suggestion that it would be a good
speculation for them to emigrate to North America, and introduce steamboats upon the great
inland lakes there.  The first steamers were then plying upon the Tyne before his eyes; and
he saw in them the germ of a great revolution in navigation. It occurred to him that North
America presented the finest field for trying their wonderful powers.  He was an engineer,
his partner was an iron-founder; and between them he thought they might strike out a path to
fortune in the mighty West.  Fortunately, this idea remained a mere speculation so far as Stephenson
was concerned: and it was left to others to do what he had dreamt of achieving.  After all
his patient waiting, his skill, industry, and perseverance were at length about to bear fruit.

In 1819 the owners of the Hetton Colliery, in the county of Durham, determined to have their
waggon-way altered to a locomotive railroad. The result of the working of the Killingworth
Railway had been so satisfactory, that they resolved to adopt the same system.  One reason
why an experiment so long continued and so successful as that at Killingworth should have been
so slow in producing results, perhaps was, that to lay down a railway and furnish it with locomotives,
or fixed engines where necessary, required a very large capital, beyond the means of ordinary
coal-owners; whilst the small amount of interest felt in railways by the general public, and
the supposed impracticability of working them to a profit, as yet prevented ordinary capitalists
from venturing their money in the promotion of such undertakings.  The Hetton Coal Company
were, however, possessed of adequate means; and the local reputation of the Killingworth engine-wright
pointed him out as the man best calculated to lay out their line, and superintend their works.
They accordingly invited him to act as the engineer of the proposed railway, which was to be
the longest locomotive line that had, up to that time, been constructed.  It extended from
the Hetton Colliery, situated about two miles south of Houghton-le-Spring, in the county of
Durham, to the shipping-places on the banks of the Wear, near Sunderland.  Its length was about
eight miles; and in its course it crossed Warden Law, one of the highest hills in the district.
The character of the country forbade the construction of a flat line, or one of comparatively
easy gradients, except by the expenditure of a much larger capital than was placed at the engineer’s
disposal.  Heavy works could not be executed; it was therefore necessary to form the line with
but little deviation from the natural conformation of the district which it traversed, and
also to adapt the mechanical methods employed for its working to the character of the gradients,
which in some places were necessarily heavy.

Although Stephenson had, with every step made towards its increased utility, become more and
more identified with the success of the locomotive engine, he did not allow his enthusiasm
to carry him away into costly mistakes.  He carefully drew the line between the cases in which
the locomotive could be usefully employed, and those in which stationary engines were calculated
to be more economical.  This led him, as in the instance of the Hetton Railway, to execute
lines through and over rough countries, where gradients within the powers of the locomotive
engine of that day could not be secured, employing in their stead stationary engines where
locomotives were not practicable.  In the present case, this course was adopted by him most
successfully.  On the original Hetton line, there were five self-acting inclines,—the full
waggons drawing the empty ones up,—and two inclines worked by fixed reciprocating engines of
sixty horse power each.  The locomotive travelling engine, or “the iron horse,” as the people
of the neighbourhood then styled it, did the rest. On the day of the opening of the Hetton
Railway, the 18th November, 1822, crowds of spectators assembled from all parts to witness
the first operations of this ingenious and powerful machinery, which was entirely successful.
On that day five of Stephenson’s locomotives were at work upon the railway, under the direction
of his brother Robert; and the first shipment of coal was then made by the Hetton Company,
at their new staiths on the Wear.  The speed at which the locomotives travelled was about 4
miles an hour, and each engine dragged after it a train of 17 waggons, weighing about 64 tons.

While thus advancing step by step,—attending to the business of the Killingworth Colliery,
and laying out railways in the neighbourhood,—he was carefully watching over the education
of his son.  We have already seen that Robert was sent to Bruce’s school at Newcastle, where
he remained about four years.  He left it in the summer of 1819, and was then put apprentice
to Mr. Nicholas Wood, the head viewer at Killingworth, to learn the business of the colliery.
He served in that capacity for about three years, during which time he became familiar with
most departments of underground work.  The occupation was not unattended with peril, as the
following incident will show.  Though the use of the Geordy lamp had become general in the
Killingworth pits, and the workmen were bound, under a penalty of half-a-crown, not to use
a naked candle, it was difficult to enforce the rule, and even the masters themselves occasionally
broke it.  One day Nicholas Wood, the head viewer, Moodie the under viewer, and Robert Stephenson,
were proceeding along one of the galleries, Wood with a naked candle in his hand, and Robert
following him with a lamp.  They came to a place where a fall of stones from the roof had taken
place, on which Wood, who was first, proceeded to clamber over the stones, holding high the
naked candle.  He had nearly reached the summit of the heap, when the fire-damp, which had
accumulated in the hollow of the roof, exploded, and instantly the whole party were blown down,
and the lights extinguished.  They were a mile from the shaft, and quite in the dark.  There
was a rush of the workpeople from all quarters towards the shaft, for it was feared that the
fire might extend to more dangerous parts of the pit, where, if the gas had exploded, every
soul in the mine must inevitably have perished.  Robert Stephenson and Moodie, on the first
impulse, ran back at full speed along the dark gallery leading to the shaft, coming into collision,
on their way, with the hind quarters of a horse stunned by the explosion.  When they had gone
halfway, Moodie halted, and bethought him of Nicholas Wood.  “Stop, laddie!” said he to Robert,
“stop; we maun gang back, and seek the maister.”  So they retraced their steps.  Happily, no
further explosion had taken place. They found the master lying on the heap of stones, stunned
and bruised, with his hands severely burnt.  They led him to the bottom of the shaft; and he
took care afterwards not to venture into the dangerous parts of the mine without the protection
of a Geordy lamp.

The time that Robert spent at Killingworth as viewer’s apprentice was of advantage both to
his father and himself.  The evenings were generally devoted to reading and study, the two
from this time working together as friends and co-labourers.  One who used to drop in at the
cottage of an evening, well remembers the animated and eager discussions which on some occasions
took place, more especially with reference to the growing powers of the locomotive engine.
The son was even more enthusiastic than the father on this subject.  Robert would suggest numerous
alterations and improvements in details.  His father, on the contrary, would offer every possible
objection, defending the existing arrangements,—proud, nevertheless of his son’s suggestions,
and often warmed and excited by his brilliant anticipations of the ultimate triumph of the
locomotive.

These discussions probably had considerable influence in inducing Stephenson to take the next
important step in the education of his son. Although Robert, who was only nineteen years of
age, was doing well, and was certain at the expiration of his apprenticeship to rise to a higher
position, his father was not satisfied with the amount of instruction which he had as yet given
him.  Remembering the disadvantages under which he had himself laboured through his ignorance
of practical chemistry during his investigations connected with the safety-lamp, more especially
with reference to the properties of gas, as well as in the course of his experiments with the
object of improving the locomotive engine, he determined to furnish his son with as complete
a scientific culture as his means would afford.  He also believed that a proper training in
technical science was indispensable to success in the higher walks of the engineer’s profession;
and he determined to give to his son that kind and degree of education which he so much desired
for himself.  He would thus, he knew, secure a hearty and generous co-worker in the elaboration
of the great ideas now looming before him, and with their united practical and scientific knowledge
he probably felt that they would be equal to any enterprise.

He accordingly took Robert from his labours as under-viewer in the West Moor Pit, and in October,
1822, sent him to the Edinburgh University, there being then no college in England accessible
to persons of moderate means, for purposes of scientific culture.  Robert was furnished with
letters of introduction to several men of literary eminence in Edinburgh; his father’s reputation
in connexion with the safety-lamp being of service to him in this respect.  He lodged in Drummond
Street, in the immediate vicinity of the college, and attended the Chemical Lectures of Dr.
Hope, the Natural Philosophy Lectures of Sir John Leslie, and the Natural History Class of
Professor Jameson.  He also devoted several evenings in each week to the study of practical
Chemistry under Dr. John Murray, himself one of the numerous designers of a safety-lamp.  He
took careful notes of all the lectures, which he copied out at night before he went to bed;
so that, when he returned to Killingworth, he might read them over to his father.  He afterwards
had the notes bound up, and placed in his library.  Long years after, when conversing with
Thomas Harrison, C.E., at his house in Gloucester Square, he rose from his seat and took down
a volume from the shelves.  Mr. Harrison observed that the book was in MS., neatly written
out.  “What have we here?” he asked.  The answer was—“When I went to college, I knew the difficulty
my father had in collecting the funds to send me there.  Before going I studied short-hand;
while at Edinburgh, I took down verbatim every lecture; and in the evenings, before I went
to bed, I transcribed those lectures word for word.  You see the result in that range of books.”

One of the practical sciences in the study of which Robert Stephenson took special interest
while at Edinburgh was that of geology.  The situation of the city, in the midst of a district
of highly interesting geological formation, easily accessible to pedestrians, is indeed most
favourable to the pursuit of such a study; and it was the practice of Professor Jameson frequently
to head a band of his pupils, armed with hammers, chisels, and clinometers, and take them with
him on a long ramble into the country, for the purpose of teaching them habits of observation
and reading to them from the open book of Nature itself.  At the close of this session, the
professor took with him a select body of his pupils on an excursion along the Great Glen of
the Highlands, in the line of the Caledonian Canal, and Robert formed one of the party.  They
passed under the shadow of Ben Nevis, examined the famous old sea-margins known as the “parallel
roads of Glen Roy,” and extended their journey as far as Inverness; the professor teaching
the young men as they travelled how to observe in a mountain country.  Not long before his
death, Robert Stephenson spoke in glowing terms of the great pleasure and benefit which he
had derived from that interesting excursion.  “I have travelled far, and enjoyed much,” he
said; “but that delightful botanical and geological journey I shall never forget; and I am
just about to start in the Titania for a trip round the east coast of Scotland, returning south
through the Caledonian Canal, to refresh myself with the recollection of that first and brightest
tour of my life.”

Towards the end of the summer of 1822 the young student returned to Killingworth to re-enter
upon the active business of life.  The six months’ study had cost his father £80; but he was
amply repaid by the better scientific culture which his son had acquired, and the evidence
of ability and industry which he was enabled to exhibit in a prize for mathematics which he
had won at the University.

The district west of Darlington, in Durham, is one of the richest mineral fields of the North.
Vast stores of coal underlie the Bishop Auckland Valley; and from an early period new and good
roads to market were felt to be exceedingly desirable.  As yet it remained almost a closed
field, the cost of transport of the coal in carts, or on horses’ or donkeys’ backs, greatly
limiting the sale.  Long ago, in the days of canal formations, Brindley was consulted about
a canal; afterwards, in 1812, a tramroad was surveyed by Rennie; and eventually, in 1817, a
railway was projected from Darlington to Stockton-on-Tees.

            [Picture: Map of Stockton and Darlington Railway]

Of this railway Edward Pease was the projector.  A thoughtful and sagacious man, ready in resources,
possessed of indomitable energy and perseverance, he was eminently qualified to undertake what
appeared to many the hopeless enterprise of obtaining an Act for a railway through such an
unpromising district.  One who knew him in 1818 said, “he was a man who could see a hundred
years ahead.”

                         [Picture: Edward Pease]

When the writer last saw him, in the autumn of 1854, Mr. Pease was in his
  eighty-eighth year; yet he still possessed the hopefulness and mental
vigour of a man in his prime.  Hale and hearty, and full of reminiscences
   of the past, he continued to take an active interest in all measures
 calculated to render men happier and better.  Still sound in health, his
 eye had not lost its brilliancy, nor his cheek its colour; and there was
   an elasticity in his step which younger men might have envied. {125}

In getting up a company for surveying and forming a railway, Mr. Pease had great difficulties
to encounter.  The people of the neighbourhood spoke of it as a ridiculous undertaking, and
predicted that it would be ruinous to all concerned.  Even those most interested in the opening
of new markets for their coal, were indifferent, if not actually hostile. The Stockton merchants
and shipowners, whom it was calculated so greatly to benefit, gave the project no support;
and not twenty shares were subscribed for in the whole town.  Mr. Pease nevertheless persevered;
and he induced many of his friends and relations to subscribe the capital required.

The necessary preliminary steps were taken in 1818 to apply for an act to authorise the construction
of a tramroad from Witton to Stockton.  The measure was however, strongly opposed by the Duke
of Cleveland, because the proposed line passed close by one of his fox covers; and the bill
was rejected.  A new survey was then made, avoiding the Duke’s cover; and in 1819 a renewed
application was made to Parliament.  The promoters were this time successful, and the royal
assent was given to the first Stockton and Darlington Railway Act on the 19th April, 1821.

The projectors did not originally contemplate the employment of locomotives.  The Act provided
for the making and maintaining of tramroads for the passage “of waggons and other carriages”
“with men and horses or otherwise,” and a further clause made provision for damages done in
course of traffic by the “waggoners.”  The public were to be free “to use with horses, cattle
and carriages,” the roads formed by the company, on payment of the authorised rates, “between
the hours of seven in the morning and six in the evening,” during winter; “between six in the
morning and eight in the evening,” in two of the spring and autumn months; and “between five
in the morning and ten in the evening,” in the summer months of May, June, July, and August.
From this it will be obvious that the projectors of the line had themselves at first no very
large conceptions as to the scope of their project.

One day, in the spring of 1821, two strangers knocked at the door of Mr. Pease’s house in Darlington;
and the message was brought to him that some persons from Killingworth wanted to speak with
him.  They were invited in, on which one of the visitors introduced himself as Nicholas Wood,
viewer at Killingworth, and then turning to his companion, he introduced him as George Stephenson,
engine-wright, of the same place.

Mr. Pease entered into conversation with his visitors, and was soon told their object.  Stephenson
had heard of the passing of the Stockton and Darlington Act, and desiring to increase his railway
experience, and also to employ in some larger field the practical knowledge he had already
gained, he determined to visit the known projector of the undertaking, with the view of being
employed to carry it out.  He had brought with him his friend Wood, for the purpose at the
same time of relieving his diffidence, and supporting his application.

Mr. Pease liked the appearance of his visitor: “there was,” as he afterwards remarked when
speaking of Stephenson, “such an honest, sensible look about him, and he seemed so modest and
unpretending.  He spoke in the strong Northumbrian dialect of his district, and described himself
as ‘only the engine-wright at Killingworth; that’s what he was.’“

Mr. Pease soon saw that our engineer was the very man for his purpose. The whole plans of the
railway were still in an undetermined state, and Mr. Pease was therefore glad to have the opportunity
of profiting by Stephenson’s experience.  In the course of their conversation, the latter strongly
recommended a railway in preference to a tramroad.  They also discussed the kind of tractive
power to be employed: Mr. Pease stating that the company had based their whole calculations
on the employment of horse power.  “I was so satisfied,” said he afterwards, “that a horse
upon an iron road would draw ten tons for one ton on a common road, that I felt sure that before
long the railway would become the King’s highway.”  But Mr. Pease was scarcely prepared for
the bold assertion made by his visitor, that the locomotive engine with which he had been working
the Killingworth Railway for many years past was worth fifty horses, and that engines made
after a similar plan would yet entirely supersede all horse power upon railroads.  Stephenson
was daily becoming more positive as to the superiority of his locomotive; and hence he strongly
urged Mr. Pease to adopt it.  “Come over to Killingworth,” said he, “and see what my engines
can do; seeing is believing, sir.”  Mr. Pease accordingly promised that on some early day he
would go over to Killingworth, and take a look at the wonderful machine that was to supersede
horses.  The result of the interview was, that Mr. Pease promised to bring Stephenson’s application
for the appointment of engineer before the Directors, and to support it with his influence;
whereon the two visitors prepared to take their leave, informing Mr. Pease that they intended
to return to Newcastle “by nip;” that is, they expected to get a smuggled lift on the stage-coach,
by tipping Jehu,—for in those days the stage coachmen regarded all casual roadside passengers
as their proper perquisites.  They had, however, been so much engrossed by their conversation,
that the lapse of time was forgotten, and when Stephenson and his friend made enquiries about
the return coach, they found the last had left; and they had to walk the 18 miles to Durham
on their way back to Newcastle.

Mr. Pease having made further inquiries respecting Stephenson’s character and qualifications,
and having received a very strong recommendation of him as the right man for the intended work,
he brought the subject of his application before the directors of the Stockton and Darlington
Company. They resolved to adopt his recommendation that a railway be formed instead of a tramroad;
and they further requested Mr. Pease to write to Stephenson, desiring him to undertake a re-survey
of the line at the earliest practicable period.

A man was despatched on a horse with the letter, and when he reached Killingworth he made diligent
enquiry after the person named upon the address, “George Stephenson, Esquire, Engineer.”  No
such person was known in the village.  It is said that the man was on the point of giving up
all further search, when the happy thought struck some of the colliers’ wives who had gathered
about him, that it must be “Geordie the engine-wright” the man was in search of; and to Geordie’s
cottage he accordingly went, found him at home, and delivered the letter.

About the end of September, Stephenson went carefully over the line of the proposed railway,
for the purpose of suggesting such improvements and deviations as he might consider desirable.
He was accompanied by an assistant and a chainman,—his son Robert entering the figures while
his father took the sights.  After being engaged in the work at intervals for about six weeks,
Stephenson reported the result of his survey to the Board of Directors, and showed that by
certain deviations, a line shorter by about three miles might be constructed at a considerable
saving in expense, while at the same time more favourable gradients—an important consideration—would
be secured.

It was, however, determined in the first place to proceed with the works at those parts of
the line where no deviation was proposed; and the first rail of the Stockton and Darlington
Railway was laid with considerable ceremony, near Stockton, on the 23rd May, 1822.

It is worthy of note that Stephenson, in making his first estimate of the cost of forming the
railway according to the Instructions of the directors, set down, as part of the cost, £6200
for stationary engines, not mentioning locomotives at all.  The directors as yet confined their
views to the employment only of horses for the haulage of the coals, and of fixed engines and
ropes where horse-power was not applicable.  The whole question of steam locomotive power was,
in the estimation of the public, as well as of practical and scientific men, as yet in doubt.
The confident anticipations of George Stephenson, as to the eventual success of locomotive
engines, were regarded as mere speculations; and when he gave utterance to his views, as he
frequently took the opportunity of doing, it even had the effect of shaking the confidence
of some of his friends in the solidity of his judgment and his practical qualities as an engineer.

When Mr. Pease discussed the question with Stephenson, his remark was, “Come over and see my
engines at Killingworth, and satisfy yourself as to the efficiency of the locomotive.  I will
show you the colliery books, that you may ascertain for yourself the actual cost of working.
And I must tell you that the economy of the locomotive engine is no longer a matter of theory,
but a matter of fact.”  So confident was the tone in which Stephenson spoke of the success
of his engines, and so important were the consequences involved in arriving at a correct conclusion
on the subject, that Mr. Pease at length resolved upon paying a visit to Killingworth in the
summer of 1822, to see with his own eyes the wonderful new power so much vaunted by the engineer.

When Mr. Pease arrived at Killingworth village, he inquired for George Stephenson, and was
told that he must go over to the West Moor, and seek for a cottage by the roadside, with a
dial over the door—“that was where George Stephenson lived.”  They soon found the house with
the dial; and on knocking, the door was opened by Mrs. Stephenson—his second wife (Elizabeth
Hindmarsh), the daughter of a farmer at Black Callerton, whom he had married in 1820. {129}
Her husband, she said, was not in the house at present, but she would send for him to the colliery.
And in a short time Stephenson appeared before them in his working dress, just as he had come
out of the pit.

He very soon had his locomotive brought up to the crossing close by the end of the cottage,—made
the gentlemen mount it, and showed them its paces.  Harnessing it to a train of loaded waggons,
he ran it along the railroad, and so thoroughly satisfied his visitors of its power and capabilities,
that from that day Edward Pease was a declared supporter of the locomotive engine.  In preparing
the Amended Stockton and Darlington Act, at Stephenson’s urgent request Mr. Pease had a clause
inserted, taking power to work the railway by means of locomotive engines, and to employ them
for the haulage of passengers as well as of merchandise. {130}  The Act was obtained in 1823,
on which Stephenson was appointed the company’s engineer at a salary of £300 per annum; and
it was determined that the line should be constructed and opened for traffic as soon as practicable.

He at once proceeded, accompanied by his assistants, with the working survey of the line, laying
out every foot of the ground himself.  Railway surveying was as yet in its infancy, and was
slow and difficult work.  It afterwards became a separate branch of railway business, and was
entrusted to a special staff.  Indeed on no subsequent line did George Stephenson take the
sights through the spirit level with his own hands and eyes as he did on this railway.  He
started very early—dressed in a blue tailed coat, breeches, and top-boots—and surveyed until
dusk.  He was not at any time particular as to his living; and during the survey, he took his
chance of getting a little milk and bread at some cottager’s house along the line, or occasionally
joined in a homely dinner at some neighbouring farmhouse.  The country people were accustomed
to give him a hearty welcome when he appeared at their door; for he was always full of cheery
and homely talk, and, when there were children about the house, he had plenty of humorous chat
for them as well as for their seniors.

After the day’s work was over, George would drop in at Mr. Pease’s, to talk over the progress
of the survey, and discuss various matters connected with the railway.  Mr. Pease’s daughters
were usually present; and on one occasion, finding the young ladies learning the art of embroidery,
he volunteered to instruct them. {131}  “I know all about it,” said he; “and you will wonder
how I learnt it.  I will tell you. When I was a brakesman at Killingworth, I learnt the art
of embroidery while working the pitmen’s buttonholes by the engine fire at nights.”  He was
never ashamed, but on the contrary rather proud, of reminding his friends of these humble pursuits
of his early life.  Mr. Pease’s family were greatly pleased with his conversation, which was
always amusing and instructive; full of all sorts of experience, gathered in the oddest and
most out-of-the-way places.  Even at that early period, before he mixed in the society of educated
persons, there was a dash of speculativeness in his remarks, which gave a high degree of originality
to his conversation; and he would sometimes, in a casual remark, throw a flash of light upon
a subject, which called up a train of pregnant suggestions.

One of the most important subjects of discussion at these meetings with Mr. Pease, was the
establishment of a manufactory at Newcastle for the building of locomotive engines.  Up to
this time all the locomotives constructed after Stephenson’s designs, had been made by ordinary
mechanics working among the collieries in the North of England.  But he had long felt that
the accuracy and style of their workmanship admitted of great improvement, and that upon this
the more perfect action of the locomotive engine, and its general adoption, in a great measure
depended. One great object that he had in view in establishing the proposed factory was, to
concentrate a number of good workmen, for the purpose of carrying out the improvements in detail
which he was constantly making in his engine.  He felt hampered by the want of efficient help
from skilled mechanics, who could work out in a practical form the ideas of which his busy
mind was always so prolific.  Doubtless, too, he believed that the manufactory would prove
a remunerative investment, and that, on the general adoption of the railway system which he
anticipated, he would derive solid advantages from the fact of his establishment being the
only one of the kind for the special construction of locomotive engines.

Mr. Pease approved of his design, and strongly recommended him to carry it into effect.  But
there was the question of means; and Stephenson did not think he had capital enough for the
purpose.  He told Mr. Pease that he could advance £1000—the amount of the testimonial presented
by the coal-owners for his safety-lamp invention, which he had still left untouched; but he
did not think this sufficient for the purpose, and he thought that he should require at least
another £1000.  Mr. Pease had been very much struck with the successful performances of the
Killingworth engine; and being an accurate judge of character, he believed that he could not
go far wrong in linking a portion of his fortune with the energy and industry of George Stephenson.
He consulted his friend Thomas Richardson in the matter; and the two consented to advance £500
each for the purpose of establishing the engine factory at Newcastle.  A piece of land was
accordingly purchased in Forth Street, in August, 1823, on which a small building was erected—the
nucleus of the gigantic establishment which was afterwards formed around it; and active operations
were begun early in 1824.

While the Stockton and Darlington Railway works were in progress, our engineer had many interesting
discussions with Mr. Pease, on points connected with its construction and working, the determination
of which in a great measure affected the formation and working of all future railways.  The
most important points were these:

1.  The comparative merits of cast and wrought iron rails.

2.  The gauge of the railway.

3.  The employment of horse or engine power in working it, when ready for traffic.

The kind of rails to be laid down to form the permanent road was a matter of considerable importance.
A wooden tramroad had been contemplated when the first Act was applied for; but Stephenson
having advised that an iron road should be laid down, he was instructed to draw up a specification
of the rails.  He went before the directors to discuss with them the kind of material to be
specified.  He was himself interested in the patent for cast-iron rails, which he had taken
out in conjunction with Mr. Losh in 1816; and, of course, it was to his interest that his articles
should be used.  But when requested to give his opinion on the subject, he frankly said to
the directors, “Well, gentlemen, to tell you the truth, although it would put £500 in my pocket
to specify my own patent rails, I cannot do so after the experience I have had.  If you take
my advice, you will not lay down a single cast-iron rail.”  “Why?” asked the directors. “Because
they will not stand the weight, and you will be at no end of expense for repairs and relays.”
“What kind of road, then,” he was asked, “would you recommend?”  “Malleable rails, certainly,”
said he; “and I can recommend them with the more confidence from the fact that at Killingworth
we have had some Swedish bars laid down—nailed to wooden sleepers—for a period of fourteen
years, the waggons passing over them daily; and there they are, in use yet, whereas the cast
rails are constantly giving way.”

The price of malleable rails was, however, so high—being then worth about £12 per ton as compared
with cast-iron rails at about £5 10s.—and the saving of expense was so important a consideration
with the subscribers, that Stephenson was directed to provide, in the specification, that only
one-half of the rails required—or about 800 tons—should be of malleable iron, and the remainder
of cast-iron.  The malleable rails were of the kind called “fish-bellied,” and weighed 28 lbs.
to the yard, being 2¼ inches broad at the top, with the upper flange ¾ inch thick.  They were
only 2 inches in depth at the points at which they rested on the chairs, and 3¼ inches in the
middle or bellied part.

When forming the road, the proper gauge had also to be determined.  What width was this to
be?  The gauge of the first tramroad laid down had virtually settled the point.  The gauge
of wheels of the common vehicles of the country—of the carts and waggons employed on common
roads, which were first used on the tramroads—was about 4 feet 8½ inches.  And so the first
tramroads were laid down of this gauge.  The tools and machinery for constructing coal-waggons
and locomotives were formed with this gauge in view.  The Wylam waggon-way, afterwards the
Wylam plate-way, the Killingworth railroad, and the Hetton rail road, were as nearly as possible
on the same gauge.  Some of the earth-waggons used to form the Stockton and Darlington road
were brought from the Hetton railway; and others which were specially constructed were formed
of the same dimensions, these being intended to be afterwards employed in the working of the
traffic.

As the period drew near for the opening of the line, the question of the tractive power to
be employed was anxiously discussed.  At the Brusselton incline, fixed engines must necessarily
be made use of; but with respect to the mode of working the railway generally, it was decided
that horses were to be largely employed, and arrangements were made for their purchase.  The
influence of Mr. Pease also secured that a fair trial should be given to the experiment of
working the traffic by locomotive power; and three engines were ordered from the firm of Stephenson
and Co., Newcastle, which were put in hand forthwith, in anticipation of the opening of the
railway.  These were constructed after Mr. Stephenson’s most matured designs, and embodied
all the improvements which he had contrived up to that time.  No. I. engine, the “Locomotion,”
which was first delivered, weighed about eight tons.  It had one large flue or tube through
the boiler, by which the heated air passed direct from the furnace at one end, lined with fire-bricks,
to the chimney at the other. The combustion in the furnace was quickened by the adoption of
the steam-blast in the chimney.  The heat raised was sometimes so great, and it was so imperfectly
abstracted by the surrounding water, that the chimney became almost red-hot.  Such engines,
when put to their speed, were found capable of running at the rate of from twelve to sixteen
miles an hour; but they were better adapted for the heavy work of hauling coal-trains at low
speeds—for which, indeed, they were specially constructed—than for running at the higher speeds
afterwards adopted. Nor was it contemplated by the directors as possible, at the time when
they were ordered, that locomotives could be made available for the purposes of passenger travelling.
Besides, the Stockton and Darlington Railway did not run through a district in which passengers
were supposed to be likely to constitute any considerable portion of the traffic.

We may easily imagine the anxiety felt by Mr. Stephenson during the progress of the works towards
completion, and his mingled hopes and doubts (though his doubts were but few) as to the issue
of this great experiment.  When the formation of the line near Stockton was well advanced,
Mr. Stephenson one day, accompanied by his son Robert and John Dixon, made a journey of inspection
of the works.  The party reached Stockton, and proceeded to dine at one of the inns there.
After dinner, Stephenson ventured on the very unusual measure of ordering in a bottle of wine,
to drink success to the railway.  John Dixon relates with pride the utterance of the master
on the occasion.

The Stockton and Darlington line was opened for traffic on the 27th September, 1825.  An immense
concourse of people assembled from all parts to witness the ceremony of opening this first
public railway.  The powerful opposition which the project had encountered, the threats which
were still uttered against the company by the road-trustees and others, who declared that they
would yet prevent the line being worked, and perhaps the general unbelief as to its success
which still prevailed, tended to excite the curiosity of the public as to the result.  Some
went to rejoice at the opening, some to see the “bubble burst;” and there were many prophets
of evil who would not miss the blowing up of the boasted travelling engine.  The opening was,
however, auspicious.  The proceedings commenced at Brusselton Incline, about nine miles above
Darlington, where the fixed engine drew a train of loaded waggons up the incline from the west,
and lowered them on the east side.  At the foot of the incline a locomotive was in readiness
to receive them, Stephenson himself driving the engine.  The train consisted of six waggons
loaded with coals and flour; after these was the passenger-coach, filled with the directors
and their friends, and then twenty-one waggons fitted up with temporary seats for passengers;
and lastly came six waggon-loads of coals, making in all a train of thirty-eight vehicles.
The local chronicler of the day almost went beside himself in describing the extraordinary
event:—“The signal being given,” he says, “the engine started off with this immense train of
carriages; and such was its velocity, that in some parts the speed was frequently 12 miles
an hour!” By the time it reached Stockton there were about 600 persons in the train or hanging
on to the waggons, which must have gone at a safe and steady pace of from four to six miles
an hour from Darlington.  “The arrival at Stockton,” it is added, “excited a deep interest
and admiration.”

The working of the line then commenced, and the results were such as to surprise even the most
sanguine of its projectors.  The traffic upon which they had formed their estimates of profit
proved to be small in comparison with that which flowed in upon them which they had never dreamt
of.  Thus, what the company had principally relied upon for their receipts was the carriage
of coals for land sale at the stations along the line, whereas the haulage of coals to the
seaports for exportation to the London market was not contemplated as possible.  When the bill
was before Parliament, Mr. Lambton (afterwards Earl of Durham) succeeded in getting a clause
inserted, limiting the charge for the haulage of all coal to Stockton-on-Tees for the purpose
of shipment to ½d. per ton per mile; whereas a rate of 4d. per ton was allowed to be taken
for all coals led upon the railway for land sale.  Mr. Lambton’s object in enforcing the low
rate of ½d. was to protect his own trade in coal exported from Sunderland and the northern
ports.  He believed, in common with everybody else, that the ½d. rate would effectually secure
him against competition on the part of the Company; for it was not considered possible to lead
coals at that price, and the proprietors of the railway themselves considered that such a rate
would be utterly ruinous.  The projectors never contemplated sending more than 10,000 tons
a year to Stockton, and those only for shipment as ballast; they looked for their profits almost
exclusively to the land sale.  The result, however, was as surprising to them as it must have
been to Mr. Lambton.  The ½d. rate which was forced upon them, instead of being ruinous, proved
the vital element in the success of the railway.  In the course of a few years, the annual
shipment of coal, led by the Stockton and Darlington Railway to Stockton and Middlesborough,
was more than 500,000 tons; and it has since far exceeded this amount.  Instead of being, as
anticipated, a subordinate branch of traffic, it proved, in fact, the main traffic, while the
land sale was merely subsidiary.

The anticipations of the company as to passenger traffic were in like manner more than realised.
At first, passengers were not thought of; and it was only while the works were in progress
that the starting of a passenger coach was seriously contemplated.  The number of persons travelling
between the two towns was very small; and it was not known whether these would risk their persons
upon the iron road.  It was determined, however, to make trial of a railway coach; and Mr.
Stephenson was authorised to have one built at Newcastle, at the cost of the company.  This
was done accordingly; and the first railway passenger carriage was built after our engineer’s
design.  It was, however, a very modest, and indeed a somewhat uncouth machine, more resembling
the caravans still to be seen at country fairs containing the “Giant and the Dwarf” and other
wonders of the world, than a passenger-coach of any extant form.  A row of seats ran along
each side of the interior, and a long deal table was fixed in the centre; the access being
by means of a door at the back end, in the manner of an omnibus.

                    [Picture: The First Railway Coach]

This coach arrived from Newcastle the day before the opening, and formed part of the railway
procession above described.  Mr. Stephenson was consulted as to the name of the coach, and
he at once suggested “The Experiment;” and by this name it was called.  The Company’s arms
were afterwards painted on her side, with the motto “Periculum privatum utilitas publica.”
Such was the sole passenger-carrying stock of the Stockton and Darlington Company in the year
1825.  But the “Experiment” proved the forerunner of a mighty traffic: and long time did not
elapse before it was displaced, not only by improved coaches (still drawn by horses), but afterwards
by long trains of passenger-carriages drawn by locomotive engines.

“The Experiment” was fairly started as a passenger-coach on the 10th October, 1825, a fortnight
after the opening of the line.  It was drawn by one horse, and performed a journey daily each
way between the two towns, accomplishing the distance of twelve miles in about two hours. The
fare charged was a shilling without distinction of class; and each passenger was allowed fourteen
pounds of luggage free.  “The Experiment” was not, however, worked by the company, but was
let to contractors who worked it under an arrangement whereby toll was paid for the use of
the line, rent of booking-cabins, etc.

The speculation answered so well, that several private coaching companies were shortly after
got up by innkeepers at Darlington and Stockton, for the purpose of running other coaches upon
the railroad; and an active competition for passenger traffic sprang up.  “The Experiment”
being found too heavy for one horse to draw, besides being found an uncomfortable machine,
was banished to the coal district.  Its place was then supplied by other and better vehicles,—though
they were no other than old stage-coach bodies purchased by the company, and each mounted upon
an underframe with flange-wheels.  These were let on hire to the coaching companies, who horsed
and managed them under an arrangement as to tolls, in like manner as the “Experiment” had been
worked.  Now began the distinction of inside and outside passengers, equivalent to first and
second class, paying different fares.  The competition with each other upon the railway, and
with the ordinary stagecoaches upon the road, soon brought up the speed, which was increased
to ten miles an hour—the mail-coach rate of travelling in those days, and considered very fast.

Mr. Clephan, a native of the district, has described some of the curious features of the competition
between the rival coach companies:—“There were two separate coach companies in Stockton, and
amusing collisions sometimes occurred between the drivers—who found on the rail a novel element
for contention.  Coaches cannot pass each other on the rail as on the road; and, as the line
was single, with four sidings in the mile, when two coaches met, or two trains, or coach and
train, the question arose which of the drivers must go back?  This was not always settled in
silence.  As to trains, it came to be a sort of understanding that empty should give way to
loaded waggons; and as to trains and coaches, that the passengers should have preference over
coals; while coaches, when they met, must quarrel it out.  At length, midway between sidings,
a post was erected, and a rule was laid down that he who had passed the pillar must go on,
and the ‘coming man’ go back.  At the Goose Pool and Early Nook, it was common for these coaches
to stop; and there, as Jonathan would say, passengers and coachmen ‘liquored.’  One coach,
introduced by an innkeeper, was a compound of two mourning-coaches,—an approximation to the
real railway-coach, which still adheres, with multiplying exceptions, to the stage-coach type.
One Dixon, who drove the ‘Experiment’ between Darlington and Shildon, is the inventor of carriage-lighting
on the rail. On a dark winter night, having compassion on his passengers, he would buy a penny
candle, and place it lighted amongst them on the table of the ‘Experiment’—the first railway-coach
(which, by the way, ended its days at Shildon as a railway cabin), being also the first coach
on the rail (first, second, and third class jammed all into one) that indulged its customers
with light in darkness.”

The traffic of all sorts increased so steadily and so rapidly that considerable difficulty
was experienced in working it satisfactorily.  It had been provided by the first Stockton and
Darlington Act that the line should be free to all parties who chose to use it at certain prescribed
rates, and that any person might put horses and waggons on the railway, and carry for himself.
But this arrangement led to increasing confusion and difficulty, and could not continue in
the face of a large and rapidly-increasing traffic.  The goods trains got so long that the
carriers found it necessary to call in the aid of the locomotive engine to help them on their
way.  Then mixed trains of passengers and merchandise began to run; and the result was that
the railway company found it necessary to take the entire charge and working of the traffic.
In course of time new coaches were specially built for the better accommodation of the public,
until at length regular passenger-trains were run, drawn by the locomotive engine,—though this
was not until after the Liverpool and Manchester Company had established this as a distinct
branch of their traffic.

                [Picture: The No. I. Engine at Darlington]

The three Stephenson locomotives were from the first regularly employed to work the coal trains;
and their proved efficiency for this purpose led to the gradual increase of the locomotive
power.  The speed of the engines—slow though it seems now—was in those days regarded as something
marvellous.  A race actually came off between No. I. engine, the “Locomotion,” and one of the
stage-coaches travelling from Darlington to Stockton by the ordinary road; and it was regarded
as a great triumph of mechanical skill that the locomotive reached Stockton first, beating
the stage-coach by about a hundred yards!  The same engine continued in good working order
in the year 1846, when it headed the railway procession on the opening of the Middlesborough
and Redcar Railway, travelling at the rate of about fourteen miles an hour.  This engine, the
first that travelled upon the first public railway, has recently been placed upon a pedestal
in front of the railway station at Darlington.

For some years, however, the principal haulage of the line was performed by horses.  The inclination
of the gradients being towards the sea, this was perhaps the cheapest mode of traction, so
long as the traffic was not very large.  The horse drew the train along the level road, until,
on reaching a descending gradient, down which the train ran by its own gravity, the animal
was unharnessed, and, when loose, he wheeled round to the other end of the waggons, to which
a “dandy-cart” was attached, its bottom being only a few inches from the rail.  Bringing his
step into unison with the speed of the train, the horse learnt to leap nimbly into his place
in this waggon, which was usually fitted with a well-filled hay-rack.

