Comprehension must be the soil in which shall grow all the fruits of friendship, and there
is a reason and a compulsion lying behind all this which is dearer than anything else to the
thoughtful men of America. I mean the development of constitutional liberty in the world. Human
rights, national integrity, and opportunity as against material interests--that, ladies and
gentlemen, is the issue which we now have to face. I want to take this occasion to say that
the United States will never again seek one additional foot of territory by conquest. She will
devote herself to showing that she knows how to make honorable and fruitful use of the territory
she has, and she must regard it as one of the duties of friendship to see that from no quarter
are material interests made superior to human liberty and national opportunity. I say this,
not with a single thought that anyone will gainsay it, but merely to fix in our consciousness
what our real relationship with the rest of America is. It is the relationship of a family
of mankind devoted to the development of true constitutional liberty. We know that that is
the soil out of which the best enterprise springs. We know that this is a cause which we are
making in common with our neighbors, because we have had to make it for ourselves.

Reference has been made here to-day to some of the national problems which confront us as a
nation. What is at the heart of all our national problems? It is that we have seen the hand
of material interest sometimes about to close upon our dearest rights and possessions. We have
seen material interests threaten constitutional freedom in the United States. Therefore we
will now know how to sympathize with those in the rest of America who have to contend with
such powers, not only within their borders but from outside their borders also.

I know what the response of the thought and heart of America will be to the program I have
outlined, because America was created to realize a program like that. This is not America because
it is rich. This is not America because it has set up for a great population great opportunities
of material prosperity. America is a name which sounds in the ears of men everywhere as a synonym
with individual opportunity because a synonym of individual liberty. I would rather belong
to a poor nation that was free than to a rich nation that had ceased to be in love with liberty.
But we shall not be poor if we love liberty, because the nation that loves liberty truly sets
every man free to do his best and be his best, and that means the release of all the splendid
energies of a great people who think for themselves. A nation of employees cannot be free any
more than a nation of employers can be.

In emphasizing the points which must unite us in sympathy and in spiritual interest with the
Latin-American peoples we are only emphasizing the points of our own life, and we should prove
ourselves untrue to our own traditions if we proved ourselves untrue friends to them. Do not
think, therefore, gentlemen, that the questions of the day are mere questions of policy and
diplomacy. They are shot through with the principles of life. We dare not turn from the principle
that morality and not expediency is the thing that must guide us and that we will never condone
iniquity because it is most convenient to do so. It seems to me that this is a day of infinite
hope, of confidence in a future greater than the past has been, for I am fain to believe that
in spite of all the things that we wish to correct the nineteenth century that now lies behind
us has brought us a long stage toward the time when, slowly ascending the tedious climb that
leads to the final uplands, we shall get our ultimate view of the duties of mankind. We have
breasted a considerable part of that climb and shall presently--it may be in a generation or
two--come out upon those great heights where there shines unobstructed the light of the justice
of God.

TRUSTS AND MONOPOLIES

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, January 20, 1914.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

In my report "on the state of the Union," which I had the privilege of reading to you on the
2d of December last, I ventured to reserve for discussion at a later date the subject of additional
legislation regarding the very difficult and intricate matter of trusts and monopolies. The
time now seems opportune to turn to that great question; not only because the currency legislation,
which absorbed your attention and the attention of the country in December, is now disposed
of, but also because opinion seems to be clearing about us with singular rapidity in this other
great field of action. In the matter of the currency it cleared suddenly and very happily after
the much-debated Act was passed; in respect of the monopolies which have multiplied about us
and in regard to the various means by which they have been organized and maintained it seems
to be coming to a clear and all but universal agreement in anticipation of our action, as if
by way of preparation, making the way easier to see and easier to set out upon with confidence
and without confusion of counsel.

Legislation has its atmosphere like everything else, and the atmosphere of accommodation and
mutual understanding which we now breathe with so much refreshment is matter of sincere congratulation.
It ought to make our task very much less difficult and embarrassing than it would have been
had we been obliged to continue to act amidst the atmosphere of suspicion and antagonism which
has so long made it impossible to approach such questions with dispassionate fairness. Constructive
legislation, when successful, is always the embodiment of convincing experience, and of the
mature public opinion which finally springs out of that experience. Legislation is a business
of interpretation, not of origination; and it is now plain what the opinion is to which we
must give effect in this matter. It is not recent or hasty opinion. It springs out of the experience
of a whole generation. It has clarified itself by long contest, and those who for a long time
battled with it and sought to change it are now frankly and honorably yielding to it and seeking
to conform their actions to it.

The great business men who organized and financed monopoly and those who administered it in
actual everyday transactions have year after year, until now, either denied its existence or
justified it as necessary for the effective maintenance and development of the vast business
processes of the country in the modern circumstances of trade and manufacture and finance;
but all the while opinion has made head against them. The average business man is convinced
that the ways of liberty are also the ways of peace and the ways of success as well; and at
last the masters of business on the great scale have begun to yield their preference and purpose,
perhaps their judgment also, in honorable surrender.

What we are purposing to do, therefore, is, happily, not to hamper or interfere with business
as enlightened business men prefer to do it, or in any sense to put it under the ban. The antagonism
between business and government is over. We are now about to give expression to the best business
judgment of America, to what we know to be the business conscience and honor of the land. The
Government and business men are ready to meet each other half-way in a common effort to square
business methods with both public opinion and the law. The best informed men of the business
world condemn the methods and processes and consequences of monopoly as we condemn them; and
the instinctive judgment of the vast majority of business men everywhere goes with them. We
shall now be their spokesmen. That is the strength of our position and the sure prophecy of
what will ensue when our reasonable work is done.

When serious contest ends, when men unite in opinion and purpose, those who are to change their
ways of business joining with those who ask for the change, it is possible to effect it in
the way in which prudent and thoughtful and patriotic men would wish to see it brought about
with as few, as slight, as easy and simple business readjustments as possible in the circumstances,
nothing essential disturbed, nothing torn up by the roots, no parts rent asunder which can
be left in wholesome combination. Fortunately, no measures of sweeping or novel change are
necessary. It will be understood that our object is not to unsettle business or anywhere seriously
to break its established courses athwart. On the contrary, we desire the laws we are now about
to pass to be the bulwarks and safeguards of industry against the forces that have disturbed
it. What we have to do can be done in a new spirit, in thoughtful moderation, without revolution
of any untoward kind.

We are all agreed that "private monopoly is indefensible and intolerable," and our program
is founded upon that conviction. It will be a comprehensive but not a radical or unacceptable
program and these are its items, the changes which opinion deliberately sanctions and for which
business waits:

It waits with acquiescence, in the first place, for laws which will effectually prohibit and
prevent such interlockings of the personnel of the directorates of great corporations--banks
and railroads, industrial, commercial, and public service bodies--as in effect result in making
those who borrow and those who lend practically one and the same, those who sell and those
who buy but the same persons trading with one another under different names and in different
combinations, and those who affect to compete in fact partners and masters of some whole field
of business. Sufficient time should be allowed, of course, in which to effect these changes
of organization without inconvenience or confusion.

Such a prohibition will work much more than a mere negative good by correcting the serious
evils which have arisen because, for example, the men who have been the directing spirits of
the great investment banks have usurped the place which belongs to independent industrial management
working in its own behoof. It will bring new men, new energies, a new spirit of initiative,
new blood, into the management of our great business enterprises. It will open the field of
industrial development and origination to scores of men who have been obliged to serve when
their abilities entitled them to direct. It will immensely hearten the young men coming on
and will greatly enrich the business activities of the whole country.

In the second place, business men as well as those who direct public affairs now recognize,
and recognize with painful clearness, the great harm and injustice which has been done to many,
if not all, of the great railroad systems of the country by the way in which they have been
financed and their own distinctive interests subordinated to the interests of the men who financed
them and of other business enterprises which those men wished to promote. The country is ready,
therefore, to accept, and accept with relief as well as approval, a law which will confer upon
the Interstate Commerce Commission the power to superintend and regulate the financial operations
by which the railroads are henceforth to be supplied with the money they need for their proper
development to meet the rapidly growing requirements of the country for increased and improved
facilities of transportation. We cannot postpone action in this matter without leaving the
railroads exposed to many serious handicaps and hazards; and the prosperity of the railroads
and the prosperity of the country are inseparably connected. Upon this question those who are
chiefly responsible for the actual management and operation of the railroads have spoken very
plainly and very earnestly, with a purpose we ought to be quick to accept. It will be one step,
and a very important one, toward the necessary separation of the business of production from
the business of transportation.

The business of the country awaits also, has long awaited and has suffered because it could
not obtain, further and more explicit legislative definition of the policy and meaning of the
existing antitrust law. Nothing hampers business like uncertainty. Nothing daunts or discourages
it like the necessity to take chances, to run the risk of falling under the condemnation of
the law before it can make sure just what the law is. Surely we are sufficiently familiar with
the actual processes and methods of monopoly and of the many hurtful restraints of trade to
make definition possible, at any rate up to the limits of what experience has disclosed. These
practices, being now abundantly disclosed, can be explicitly and item by item forbidden by
statute in such terms as will practically eliminate uncertainty, the law itself and the penalty
being made equally plain.

And the business men of the country desire something more than that the menace of legal process
in these matters be made explicit and intelligible. They desire the advice, the definite guidance
and information which can be supplied by an administrative body, an interstate trade commission.

The opinion of the country would instantly approve of such a commission. It would not wish
to see it empowered to make terms with monopoly or in any sort to assume control of business,
as if the Government made itself responsible. It demands such a commission only as an indispensable
instrument of information and publicity, as a clearing house for the facts by which both the
public mind and the managers of great business undertakings should be guided, and as an instrumentality
for doing justice to business where the processes of the courts or the natural forces of correction
outside the courts are inadequate to adjust the remedy to the wrong in a way that will meet
all the equities and circumstances of the case.

Producing industries, for example, which have passed the point up to which combination may
be consistent with the public interest and the freedom of trade, cannot always be dissected
into their component units as readily as railroad companies or similar organizations can be.
Their dissolution by ordinary legal process may oftentimes involve financial consequences likely
to overwhelm the security market and bring upon it breakdown and confusion. There ought to
be an administrative commission capable of directing and shaping such corrective processes,
not only in aid of the courts but also by independent suggestion, if necessary.

Inasmuch as our object and the spirit of our action in these matters is to meet business half-way
in its processes of self-correction and disturb its legitimate course as little as possible,
we ought to see to it, and the judgment of practical and sagacious men of affairs everywhere
would applaud us if we did see to it, that penalties and punishments should fall, not upon
business itself, to its confusion and interruption, but upon the individuals who use the instrumentalities
of business to do things which public policy and sound business practice condemn. Every act
of business is done at the command or upon the initiative of some ascertainable person or group
of persons. These should be held individually responsible and the punishment should fall upon
them, not upon the business organization of which they make illegal use. It should be one of
the main objects of our legislation to divest such persons of their corporate cloak and deal
with them as with those who do not represent their corporations, but merely by deliberate intention
break the law. Business men the country through would, I am sure, applaud us if we were to
take effectual steps to see that the officers and directors of great business bodies were prevented
from bringing them and the business of the country into disrepute and danger.

Other questions remain which will need very thoughtful and practical treatment. Enterprises,
in these modern days of great individual fortunes, are oftentimes interlocked, not by being
under the control of the same directors, but by the fact that the greater part of their corporate
stock is owned by a single person or group of persons who are in some way ultimately related
in interest. We are agreed, I take it, that holding companies should be prohibited, but what
of the controlling private ownership of individuals or actually coöperative groups of individuals?
Shall the private owners of capital stock be suffered to be themselves in effect holding companies?
We do not wish, I suppose, to forbid the purchase of stocks by any person who pleases to buy
them in such quantities as he can afford, or in any way arbitrarily to limit the sale of stocks
to bona fide purchasers. Shall we require the owners of stock, when their voting power in several
companies which ought to be independent of one another would constitute actual control, to
make election in which of them they will exercise their right to vote? This question I venture
for your consideration.

There is another matter in which imperative considerations of justice and fair play suggest
thoughtful remedial action. Not only do many of the combinations effected or sought to be effected
in the industrial world work an injustice upon the public in general; they also directly and
seriously injure the individuals who are put out of business in one unfair way or another by
the many dislodging and exterminating forces of combination. I hope that we shall agree in
giving private individuals who claim to have been injured by these processes the right to found
their suits for redress upon the facts and judgments proved and entered in suits by the Government
where the Government has upon its own initiative sued the combinations complained of and won
its suit, and that the statute of limitations shall be suffered to run against such litigants
only from the date of the conclusion of the Government's action. It is not fair that the private
litigant should be obliged to set up and establish again the facts which the Government has
proved. He cannot afford, he has not the power, to make use of such processes of inquiry as
the Government has command of. Thus shall individual justice be done while the processes of
business are rectified and squared with the general conscience.

I have laid the case before you, no doubt as it lies in your own mind, as it lies in the thought
of the country. What must every candid man say of the suggestions I have laid before you, of
the plain obligations of which I have reminded you? That these are new things for which the
country is not prepared? No; but that they are old things, now familiar, and must of course
be undertaken if we are to square our laws with the thought and desire of the country. Until
these things are done, conscientious business men the country over will be unsatisfied. They
are in these things our mentors and colleagues. We are now about to write the additional articles
of our constitution of peace, the peace that is honor and freedom and prosperity.

PANAMA CANAL TOLLS

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, March 5, 1914.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

I have come to you upon an errand which can be very briefly performed, but I beg that you will
not measure its importance by the number of sentences in which I state it. No communication
I have addressed to the Congress carried with it graver or more far-reaching implications as
to the interest of the country, and I come now to speak upon a matter with regard to which
I am charged in a peculiar degree, by the Constitution itself, with personal responsibility.

I have come to ask you for the repeal of that provision of the Panama Canal Act of August 24,
1912, which exempts vessels engaged in the coastwise trade of the United States from payment
of tolls, and to urge upon you the justice, the wisdom, and the large policy of such a repeal
with the utmost earnestness of which I am capable.

In my own judgment, very fully considered and maturely formed, that exemption constitutes a
mistaken economic policy from every point of view, and is, moreover, in plain contravention
of the treaty with Great Britain concerning the canal concluded on November 18, 1901. But I
have not come to urge upon you my personal views. I have come to state to you a fact and a
situation. Whatever may be our own differences of opinion concerning this much debated measure,
its meaning is not debated outside the United States. Everywhere else the language of the treaty
is given but one interpretation, and that interpretation precludes the exemption I am asking
you to repeal. We consented to the treaty; its language we accepted, if we did not originate
it; and we are too big, too powerful, too self-respecting a nation to interpret with a too
strained or refined reading the words of our own promises just because we have power enough
to give us leave to read them as we please. The large thing to do is the only thing we can
afford to do, a voluntary withdrawal from a position everywhere questioned and misunderstood.
We ought to reverse our action without raising the question whether we were right or wrong,
and so once more deserve our reputation for generosity and for the redemption of every obligation
without quibble or hesitation.

I ask this of you in support of the foreign policy of the administration. I shall not know
how to deal with other matters of even greater delicacy and nearer consequence if you do not
grant it to me in ungrudging measure.

THE TAMPICO INCIDENT

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, April 20, 1914.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

It is my duty to call your attention to a situation which has arisen in our dealings with General
Victoriano Huerta at Mexico City which calls for action, and to ask your advice and coöperation
in acting upon it. On the 9th of April a paymaster of the U.S.S. Dolphin landed at the Iturbide
Bridge landing at Tampico with a whaleboat and boat's crew to take off certain supplies needed
by his ship, and while engaged in loading the boat was arrested by an officer and squad of
men of the army of General Huerta. Neither the paymaster nor anyone of the boat's crew was
armed. Two of the men were in the boat when the arrest took place and were obliged to leave
it and submit to be taken into custody, notwithstanding the fact that the boat carried, both
at her bow and at her stern, the flag of the United States. The officer who made the arrest
was proceeding up one of the streets of the town with his prisoners when met by an officer
of higher authority, who ordered him to return to the landing and await orders; and within
an hour and a half from the time of the arrest orders were received from the commander of the
Huertista forces at Tampico for the release of the paymaster and his men. The release was followed
by apologies from the commander and later by an expression of regret by General Huerta himself.
General Huerta urged that martial law obtained at the time at Tampico; that orders had been
issued that no one should be allowed to land at the Iturbide Bridge; and that our sailors had
no right to land there. Our naval commanders at the port had not been notified of any such
prohibition; and, even if they had been, the only justifiable course open to the local authorities
would have been to request the paymaster and his crew to withdraw and to lodge a protest with
the commanding officer of the fleet. Admiral Mayo regarded the arrest as so serious an affront
that he was not satisfied with the apologies offered, but demanded that the flag of the United
States be saluted with special ceremony by the military commander of the port.

The incident cannot be regarded as a trivial one, especially as two of the men arrested were
taken from the boat itself--that is to say, from the territory of the United States--but had
it stood by itself it might have been attributed to the ignorance or arrogance of a single
officer. Unfortunately, it was not an isolated case. A series of incidents have recently occurred
which cannot but create the impression that the representatives of General Huerta were willing
to go out of their way to show disregard for the dignity and rights of this Government and
felt perfectly safe in doing what they pleased, making free to show in many ways their irritation
and contempt. A few days after the incident at Tampico an orderly from the U.S.S. Minnesota
was arrested at Vera Cruz while ashore in uniform to obtain the ship's mail, and was for a
time thrown into jail. An official dispatch from this Government to its embassy at Mexico City
was withheld by the authorities of the telegraphic service until peremptorily demanded by our
chargé d'affaires in person. So far as I can learn, such wrongs and annoyances have been suffered
to occur only against representatives of the United States. I have heard of no complaints from
other Governments of similar treatment. Subsequent explanations and formal apologies did not
and could not alter the popular impression, which it is possible it had been the object of
the Huertista authorities to create, that the Government of the United States was being singled
out, and might be singled out with impunity, for slights and affronts in retaliation for its
refusal to recognize the pretensions of General Huerta to be regarded as the constitutional
provisional President of the Republic of Mexico.

The manifest danger of such a situation was that such offenses might grow from bad to worse
until something happened of so gross and intolerable a sort as to lead directly and inevitably
to armed conflict. It was necessary that the apologies of General Huerta and his representatives
should go much further, that they should be such as to attract the attention of the whole population
to their significance, and such as to impress upon General Huerta himself the necessity of
seeing to it that no further occasion for explanations and professed regrets should arise.
I, therefore, felt it my duty to sustain Admiral Mayo in the whole of his demand and to insist
that the flag of the United States should be saluted in such a way as to indicate a new spirit
and attitude on the part of the Huertistas.

Such a salute General Huerta has refused, and I have come to ask your approval and support
in the course I now purpose to pursue.

This Government can, I earnestly hope, in no circumstances be forced into war with the people
of Mexico. Mexico is torn by civil strife. If we are to accept the tests of its own constitution,
it has no government. General Huerta has set his power up in the City of Mexico, such as it
is, without right and by methods for which there can be no justification. Only part of the
country is under his control. If armed conflict should unhappily come as a result of his attitude
of personal resentment toward this Government, we should be fighting only General Huerta and
those who adhere to him and give him their support, and our object would be only to restore
to the people of the distracted Republic the opportunity to set up again their own laws and
their own government.

But I earnestly hope that war is not now in question. I believe that I speak for the American
people when I say that we do not desire to control in any degree the affairs of our sister
Republic. Our feeling for the people of Mexico is one of deep and genuine friendship, and everything
that we have so far done or refrained from doing has proceeded from our desire to help them,
not to hinder or embarrass them. We would not wish even to exercise the good offices of friendship
without their welcome and consent. The people of Mexico are entitled to settle their own domestic
affairs in their own way, and we sincerely desire to respect their right. The present situation
need have none of the grave implications of interference if we deal with it promptly, firmly,
and wisely.

No doubt I could do what is necessary in the circumstances to enforce respect for our Government
without recourse to the Congress, and yet not exceed my constitutional powers as President;
but I do not wish to act in a matter possibly of so grave consequence except in close conference
and coöperation with both the Senate and House. I, therefore, come to ask your approval that
I should use the armed forces of the United States in such ways and to such an extent as may
be necessary to obtain from General Huerta and his adherents the fullest recognition of the
rights and dignity of the United States, even amidst the distressing conditions now unhappily
obtaining in Mexico.

There can in what we do be no thought of aggression or of selfish aggrandizement. We seek to
maintain the dignity and authority of the United States only because we wish always to keep
our great influence unimpaired for the uses of liberty, both in the United States and wherever
else it may be employed for the benefit of mankind.

IN THE FIRMAMENT OF MEMORY

[Address at the Services in Memory of those who lost their lives at Vera Cruz, Mexico, delivered
at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, May 11, 1914. The roster, of fifteen sailors and four marines, was
presented by the Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Daniels.]

MR. SECRETARY:

I know that the feelings which characterize all who stand about me and the whole Nation at
this hour are not feelings which can be suitably expressed in terms of attempted oratory or
eloquence. They are things too deep for ordinary speech. For my own part, I have a singular
mixture of feelings. The feeling that is uppermost is one of profound grief that these lads
should have had to go to their death; and yet there is mixed with that grief a profound pride
that they should have gone as they did, and, if I may say it out of my heart, a touch of envy
of those who were permitted so quietly, so nobly, to do their duty. Have you thought of it,
men? Here is the roster of the Navy--the list of the men, officers and enlisted men and marines--and
suddenly there swim nineteen stars out of the list--men who have suddenly been lifted into
a firmament of memory where we shall always see their names shine, not because they called
upon us to admire them, but because they served us, without asking any questions and in the
performance of a duty which is laid upon us as well as upon them.

Duty is not an uncommon thing, gentlemen. Men are performing it in the ordinary walks of life
all around us all the time, and they are making great sacrifices to perform it. What gives
men like these peculiar distinction is not merely that they did their duty, but that their
duty had nothing to do with them or their own personal and peculiar interests. They did not
give their lives for themselves. They gave their lives for us, because we called upon them
as a Nation to perform an unexpected duty. That is the way in which men grow distinguished,
and that is the only way, by serving somebody else than themselves. And what greater thing
could you serve than a Nation such as this we love and are proud of? Are you sorry for these
lads? Are you sorry for the way they will be remembered? Does it not quicken your pulses to
think of the list of them? I hope to God none of you may join the list, but if you do you will
join an immortal company.

So, while we are profoundly sorrowful, and while there goes out of our hearts a very deep and
affectionate sympathy for the friends and relatives of these lads who for the rest of their
lives shall mourn them, though with a touch of pride, we know why we do not go away from this
occasion cast down, but with our heads lifted and our eyes on the future of this country, with
absolute confidence of how it will be worked out. Not only upon the mere vague future of this
country, but upon the immediate future. We have gone down to Mexico to serve mankind if we
can find out the way. We do not want to fight the Mexicans. We want to serve the Mexicans if
we can, because we know how we would like to be free, and how we would like to be served if
there were friends standing by in such case ready to serve us. A war of aggression is not a
war in which it is a proud thing to die, but a war of service is a thing in which it is a proud
thing to die.

Notice how truly these men were of our blood. I mean of our American blood, which is not drawn
from any one country, which is not drawn from any one stock, which is not drawn from any one
language of the modern world; but free men everywhere have sent their sons and their brothers
and their daughters to this country in order to make that great compounded Nation which consists
of all the sturdy elements and of all the best elements of the whole globe. I listened again
to this list of the dead with a profound interest because of the mixture of the names, for
the names bear the marks of the several national stocks from which these men came. But they
are not Irishmen or Germans or Frenchmen or Hebrews or Italians any more. They were not when
they went to Vera Cruz; they were Americans, every one of them, and with no difference in their
Americanism because of the stock from which they came. They were in a peculiar sense of our
blood, and they proved it by showing that they were of our spirit--that no matter what their
derivation, no matter where their people came from, they thought and wished and did the things
that were American; and the flag under which they served was a flag in which all the blood
of mankind is united to make a free Nation.

War, gentlemen, is only a sort of dramatic representation, a sort of dramatic symbol, of a
thousand forms of duty. I never went into battle; I never was under fire; but I fancy that
there are some things just as hard to do as to go under fire. I fancy that it is just as hard
to do your duty when men are sneering at you as when they are shooting at you. When they shoot
at you, they can only take your natural life; when they sneer at you, they can wound your living
heart, and men who are brave enough, steadfast enough, steady in their principles enough, to
go about their duty with regard to their fellow-men, no matter whether there are hisses or
cheers, men who can do what Rudyard Kipling in one of his poems wrote, "Meet with triumph and
disaster and treat those two impostors just the same," are men for a nation to be proud of.
Morally speaking, disaster and triumph are impostors. The cheers of the moment are not what
a man ought to think about, but the verdict of his conscience and of the consciences of mankind.

When I look at you, I feel as if I also and we all were enlisted men. Not enlisted in your
particular branch of the service, but enlisted to serve the country, no matter what may come,
even though we may sacrifice our lives in the arduous endeavor. We are expected to put the
utmost energy of every power that we have into the service of our fellow-men, never sparing
ourselves, not condescending to think of what is going to happen to ourselves, but ready, if
need be, to go to the utter length of complete self-sacrifice.

As I stand and look at you to-day and think of these spirits that have gone from us, I know
that the road is clearer for the future. These boys have shown us the way, and it is easier
to walk on it because they have gone before and shown us how. May God grant to all of us that
vision of patriotic service which here in solemnity and grief and pride is borne in upon our
hearts and consciences!

MEMORIAL DAY ADDRESS

[Delivered at the National Cemetery, Arlington, Va., May 30, 1914.]

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

I have not come here to-day with a prepared address. The committee in charge of the exercises
of the day have graciously excused me on the grounds of public obligations from preparing such
an address, but I will not deny myself the privilege of joining with you in an expression of
gratitude and admiration for the men who perished for the sake of the Union. They do not need
our praise. They do not need that our admiration should sustain them. There is no immortality
that is safer than theirs. We come not for their sakes but for our own, in order that we may
drink at the same springs of inspiration from which they themselves selves drank.

A peculiar privilege came to the men who fought for the Union. There is no other civil war
in history, ladies and gentlemen, the stings of which were removed before the men who did the
fighting passed from the stage of life. So that we owe these men something more than a legal
reëstablishment of the Union. We owe them the spiritual reëstablishment of the Union as well;
for they not only reunited States, they reunited the spirits of men. That is their unique achievement,
unexampled anywhere else in the annals of mankind, that the very men whom they overcame in
battle join in praise and gratitude that the Union was saved. There is something peculiarly
beautiful and peculiarly touching about that. Whenever a man who is still trying to devote
himself to the service of the Nation comes into a presence like this, or into a place like
this, his spirit must be peculiarly moved. A mandate is laid upon him which seems to speak
from the very graves themselves. Those who serve this Nation, whether in peace or in war, should
serve it without thought of themselves. I can never speak in praise of war, ladies and gentlemen;
you would not desire me to do so. But there is this peculiar distinction belonging to the soldier,
that he goes into an enterprise out of which he himself cannot get anything at all. He is giving
everything that he hath, even his life, in order that others may live, not in order that he
himself may obtain gain and prosperity. And just so soon as the tasks of peace are performed
in the same spirit of self-sacrifice and devotion, peace societies will not be necessary. The
very organization and spirit of society will be a guaranty of peace.

Therefore this peculiar thing comes about, that we can stand here and praise the memory of
these soldiers in the interest of peace. They set us the example of self-sacrifice, which if
followed in peace will make it unnecessary that men should follow war any more.

We are reputed to be somewhat careless in our discrimination between words in the use of the
English language, and yet it is interesting to note that there are some words about which we
are very careful. We bestow the adjective "great" somewhat indiscriminately. A man who has
made conquest of his fellow-men for his own gain may display such genius in war, such uncommon
qualities of organization and leadership that we may call him "great," but there is a word
which we reserve for men of another kind and about which we are very careful; that is the word
"noble." We never call a man "noble" who serves only himself; and if you will look about through
all the nations of the world upon the statues that men have erected--upon the inscribed tablets
where they have wished to keep alive the memory of the citizens whom they desire most to honor--you
will find that almost without exception they have erected the statue to those who had a splendid
surplus of energy and devotion to spend upon their fellow-men. Nobility exists in America without
patent. We have no House of Lords, but we have a house of fame to which we elevate those who
are the noble men of our race, who, forgetful of themselves, study and serve the public interest,
who have the courage to face any number and any kind of adversary, to speak what in their hearts
they believe to be the truth.

We admire physical courage, but we admire above all things else moral courage. I believe that
soldiers will bear me out in saying that both come in time of battle. I take it that the moral
courage comes in going into the battle, and the physical courage in staying in. There are battles
which are just as hard to go into and just as hard to stay in as the battles of arms, and if
the man will but stay and think never of himself there will come a time of grateful recollection
when men will speak of him not only with admiration but with that which goes deeper, with affection
and with reverence.

So that this flag calls upon us daily for service, and the more quiet and self-denying the
service the greater the glory of the flag. We are dedicated to freedom, and that freedom means
the freedom of the human spirit. All free spirits ought to congregate on an occasion like this
to do homage to the greatness of America as illustrated by the greatness of her sons.

It has been a privilege, ladies and gentlemen, to come and say these simple words, which I
am sure are merely putting your thought into language. I thank you for the opportunity to lay
this little wreath of mine upon these consecrated graves.

CLOSING A CHAPTER

[Address in which President Wilson accepted the Monument in Memory of the Confederate Dead,
at Arlington National Cemetery, June 4, 1914.].

MR. CHAIRMAN, MRS. MCLAURIN STEVENS, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

I assure you that I am profoundly aware of the solemn significance of the thing that has now
taken place. The Daughters of the Confederacy have presented a memorial of their dead to the
Government of the United States. I hope that you have noted the history of the conception of
this idea. It was suggested by a President of the United States who had himself been a distinguished
officer in the Union Army. It was authorized by an act of Congress of the United States. The
corner-stone of the monument was laid by a President of the United States elevated to his position
by the votes of the party which had chiefly prided itself upon sustaining the war for the Union,
and who, while Secretary of War, had himself given authority to erect it. And, now, it has
fallen to my lot to accept in the name of the great Government, which I am privileged for the
time to represent, this emblem of a reunited people. I am not so much happy as proud to participate
in this capacity on such an occasion,--proud that I should represent such a people. Am I mistaken,
ladies and gentlemen, in supposing that nothing of this sort could have occurred in anything
but a democracy? The people of a democracy are not related to their rulers as subjects are
related to a government. They are themselves the sovereign authority, and as they are neighbors
of each other, quickened by the same influences and moved by the same motives, they can understand
each other. They are shot through with some of the deepest and profoundest instincts of human
sympathy. They choose their governments; they select their rulers; they live their own life,
and they will not have that life disturbed and discolored by fraternal misunderstandings. I
know that a reuniting of spirits like this can take place more quickly in our time than in
any other because men are now united by an easier transmission of those influences which make
up the foundations of peace and of mutual understanding, but no process can work these effects
unless there is a conducting medium. The conducting medium in this instance is the united heart
of a great people. I am not going to detain you by trying to repeat any of the eloquent thoughts
which have moved us this afternoon, for I rejoice in the simplicity of the task which is assigned
to me. My privilege is this, ladies and gentlemen: To declare this chapter in the history of
the United States closed and ended, and I bid you turn with me with your faces to the future,
quickened by the memories of the past, but with nothing to do with the contests of the past,
knowing, as we have shed our blood upon opposite sides, we now face and admire one another.
I do not know how many years ago it was that the Century Dictionary was published, but I remember
one day in the Century Cyclopedia of Names I had occasion to turn to the name of Robert E.
Lee, and I found him there in that book published in New York City simply described as a great
American general. The generosity of our judgments did not begin to-day. The generosity of our
judgment was made up soon after this great struggle was over. Men came and sat together again
in the Congress and united in all the efforts of peace and of government, and our solemn duty
is to see that each one of us is in his own consciousness and in his own conduct a replica
of this great reunited people. It is our duty and our privilege to be like the country we represent
and, speaking no word of malice, no word of criticism even, stand shoulder to shoulder to lift
the burdens of mankind in the future and show the paths of freedom to all the world.

ANNAPOLIS COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS

[Delivered before the Graduating Class of the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland,
June 5, 1914.]

MR. SUPERINTENDENT, YOUNG GENTLEMEN, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

During the greater part of my life I have been associated with young men, and on occasions
it seems to me without number have faced bodies of youngsters going out to take part in the
activities of the world, but I have a consciousness of a different significance in this occasion
from that which I have felt on other similar occasions. When I have faced the graduating classes
at universities I have felt that I was facing a great conjecture. They were going out into
all sorts of pursuits and with every degree of preparation for the particular thing they were
expecting to do; some without any preparation at all, for they did not know what they expected
to do. But in facing you I am facing men who are trained for a special thing. You know what
you are going to do, and you are under the eye of the whole Nation in doing it. For you, gentlemen,
are to be part of the power of the Government of the United States. There is a very deep and
solemn significance in that fact, and I am sure that every one of you feels it. The moral is
perfectly obvious. Be ready and fit for anything that you have to do. And keep ready and fit.
Do not grow slack. Do not suppose that your education is over because you have received your
diplomas from the academy. Your education has just begun. Moreover, you are to have a very
peculiar privilege which not many of your predecessors have had. You are yourselves going to
become teachers. You are going to teach those 50,000 fellow-countrymen of yours who are the
enlisted men of the Navy. You are going to make them fitter to obey your orders and to serve
the country. You are going to make them fitter to see what the orders mean in their outlook
upon life and upon the service; and that is a great privilege, for out of you is going the
energy and intelligence which are going to quicken the whole body of the United States Navy.

I congratulate you upon that prospect, but I want to ask you not to get the professional point
of view. I would ask it of you if you were lawyers; I would ask it of you if you were merchants;
I would ask it of you whatever you expected to be. Do not get the professional point of view.
There is nothing narrower or more unserviceable than the professional point of view, to have
the attitude toward life that it centers in your profession. It does not. Your profession is
only one of the many activities which are meant to keep the world straight, and to keep the
energy in its blood and in its muscle. We are all of us in this world, as I understand it,
to set forward the affairs of the whole world, though we play a special part in that great
function. The Navy goes all over the world, and I think it is to be congratulated upon having
that sort of illustration of what the world is and what it contains; and inasmuch as you are
going all over the world you ought to be the better able to see the relation that your country
bears to the rest of the world.

It ought to be one of your thoughts all the time that you are sample Americans--not merely
sample Navy men, not merely sample soldiers, but sample Americans--and that you have the point
of view of America with regard to her Navy and her Army; that she is using them as the instruments
of civilization, not as the instruments of aggression. The idea of America is to serve humanity,
and every time you let the Stars and Stripes free to the wind you ought to realize that that
is in itself a message that you are on an errand which other navies have sometimes tunes forgotten;
not an errand of conquest, but an errand of service. I always have the same thought when I
look at the flag of the United States, for I know something of the history of the struggle
of mankind for liberty. When I look at that flag it seems to me as if the white stripes were
strips of parchment upon which are written the rights of man, and the red stripes the streams
of blood by which those rights have been made good. Then in the little blue firmament in the
corner have swung out the stars of the States of the American Union. So it is, as it were,
a sort of floating charter that has come down to us from Runnymede, when men said, "We will
not have masters; we will be a people, and we will seek our own liberty."

You are not serving a government, gentlemen; you are serving a people. For we who for the time
being constitute the Government are merely instruments for a little while in the hands of a
great Nation which chooses whom it will to carry out its decrees and who invariably rejects
the man who forgets the ideals which it intended him to serve. So that I hope that wherever
you go you will have a generous, comprehending love of the people you come into contact with,
and will come back and tell us, if you can, what service the United States can render to the
remotest parts of the world; tell us where you see men suffering; tell us where you think advice
will lift them up; tell us where you think that the counsel of statesmen may better the fortunes
of unfortunate men; always having it in mind that you are champions of what is right and fair
all 'round for the public welfare, no matter where you are, and that it is that you are ready
to fight for and not merely on the drop of a hat or upon some slight punctilio, but that you
are champions of your fellow-men, particularly of that great body one hundred million strong
whom you represent in the United States.

What do you think is the most lasting impression that those boys down at Vera Cruz are going
to leave? They have had to use some force--I pray God it may not be necessary for them to use
any more--but do you think that the way they fought is going to be the most lasting impression?
Have men not fought ever since the world began? Is there anything new in using force? The new
things in the world are the things that are divorced from force. The things that show the moral
compulsions of the human conscience, those are the things by which we have been building up
civilization, not by force. And the lasting impression that those boys are going to leave is
this, that they exercise self-control; that they are ready and diligent to make the place where
they went fitter to live in than they found it; that they regarded other people's rights; that
they did not strut and bluster, but went quietly, like self-respecting gentlemen, about their
legitimate work. And the people of Vera Cruz, who feared the Americans and despised the Americans,
are going to get a very different taste in their mouths about the whole thing when the boys
of the Navy and the Army come away. Is that not something to be proud of, that you know how
to use force like men of conscience and like gentlemen, serving your fellow-men and not trying
to overcome them? Like that gallant gentleman who has so long borne the heats and perplexities
and distresses of the situation in Vera Cruz--Admiral Fletcher. I mention him, because his
service there has been longer and so much of the early perplexities fell upon him. I have been
in almost daily communication with Admiral Fletcher, and I have tested his temper. I have tested
his discretion. I know that he is a man with a touch of statesmanship about him, and he has
grown bigger in my eye each day as I have read his dispatches, for he has sought always to
serve the thing he was trying to do in the temper that we all recognize and love to believe
is typically American.

I challenge you youngsters to go out with these conceptions, knowing that you are part of the
Government and force of the United States and that men will judge us by you. I am not afraid
of the verdict. I cannot look in your faces and doubt what it will be, but I want you to take
these great engines of force out onto the seas like adventurers enlisted for the elevation
of the spirit of the human race. For that is the only distinction that America has. Other nations
have been strong, other nations have piled wealth as high as the sky, but they have come into
disgrace because they used their force and their wealth for the oppression of mankind and their
own aggrandizement; and America will not bring glory to herself, but disgrace, by following
the beaten paths of history. We must strike out upon new paths, and we must count upon you
gentlemen to be the explorers who will carry this spirit and spread this message all over the
seas and in every port of the civilized world.

You see, therefore, why I said that when I faced you I felt there was a special significance.
I am not present on an occasion when you are about to scatter on various errands. You are all
going on the same errand, and I like to feel bound with you in one common organization for
the glory of America. And her glory goes deeper than all the tinsel, goes deeper than the sound
of guns and the clash of sabers; it goes down to the very foundations of those things that
have made the spirit of men free and happy and content.

THE MEANING OF LIBERTY

[Address at Independence Hall, Philadelphia, July 4, 1914.]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND FELLOW-CITIZENS:

We are assembled to celebrate the one hundred and thirty-eighth anniversary of the birth of
the United States. I suppose that we can more vividly realize the circumstances of that birth
standing on this historic spot than it would be possible to realize them anywhere else. The
Declaration of Independence was written in Philadelphia; it was adopted in this historic building
by which we stand. I have just had the privilege of sitting in the chair of the great man who
presided over the deliberations of those who gave the declaration to the world. My hand rests
at this moment upon the table upon which the declaration was signed. We can feel that we are
almost in the visible and tangible presence of a great historic transaction.

Have you ever read the Declaration of Independence or attended with close comprehension to
the real character of it when you have heard it read? If you have, you will know that it is
not a Fourth of July oration. The Declaration of Independence was a document preliminary to
war. It was a vital piece of practical business, not a piece of rhetoric; and if you will pass
beyond those preliminary passages which we are accustomed to quote about the rights of men
and read into the heart of the document you will see that it is very express and detailed,
that it consists of a series of definite specifications concerning actual public business of
the day. Not the business of our day, for the matter with which it deals is past, but the business
of that first revolution by which the Nation was set up, the business of 1776. Its general
statements, its general declarations cannot mean anything to us unless we append to it a similar
specific body of particulars as to what we consider the essential business of our own day.

Liberty does not consist, my fellow-citizens, in mere general declarations of the rights of
man. It consists in the translation of those declarations into definite action. Therefore,
standing here where the declaration was adopted, reading its businesslike sentences, we ought
to ask ourselves what there is in it for us. There is nothing in it for us unless we can translate
it into the terms of our own conditions and of our own lives. We must reduce it to what the
lawyers call a bill of particulars. It contains a bill of particulars, but the bill of particulars
of 1776. If we would keep it alive, we must fill it with a bill of particulars of the year 1914.

The task to which we have constantly to readdress ourselves is the task of proving that we
are worthy of the men who drew this great declaration and know what they would have done in
our circumstances. Patriotism consists in some very practical things--practical in that they
belong to the life of every day, that they wear no extraordinary distinction about them, that
they are connected with commonplace duty. The way to be patriotic in America is not only to
love America but to love the duty that lies nearest to our hand and know that in performing
it we are serving our country. There are some gentlemen in Washington, for example, at this
very moment who are showing themselves very patriotic in a way which does not attract wide
attention but seems to belong to mere everyday obligations. The Members of the House and Senate
who stay in hot Washington to maintain a quorum of the Houses and transact the all-important
business of the Nation are doing an act of patriotism. I honor them for it, and I am glad to
stay there and stick by them until the work is done.

It is patriotic, also, to learn what the facts of our national life are and to face them with
candor. I have heard a great many facts stated about the present business condition of this
country, for example--a great many allegations of fact, at any rate, but the allegations do
not tally with one another. And yet I know that truth always matches with truth and when I
find some insisting that everything is going wrong and others insisting that everything is
going right, and when I know from a wide observation of the general circumstances of the country
taken as a whole that things are going extremely well, I wonder what those who are crying out
that things are wrong are trying to do. Are they trying to serve the country, or are they trying
to serve something smaller than the country? Are they trying to put hope into the hearts of
the men who work and toil every day, or are they trying to plant discouragement and despair
in those hearts? And why do they cry that everything is wrong and yet do nothing to set it
right? If they love America and anything is wrong amongst us, it is their business to put their
hand with ours to the task of setting it right. When the facts are known and acknowledged,
the duty of all patriotic men is to accept them in candor and to address themselves hopefully
and confidently to the common counsel which is necessary to act upon them wisely and in universal
concert.

I have had some experiences in the last fourteen months which have not been entirely reassuring.
It was universally admitted, for example, my fellow-citizens, that the banking system of this
country needed reorganization. We set the best minds that we could find to the task of discovering
the best method of reorganization. But we met with hardly anything but criticism from the bankers
of the country; we met with hardly anything but resistance from the majority of those at least
who spoke at all concerning the matter. And yet so soon as that act was passed there was a
universal chorus of applause, and the very men who had opposed the measure joined in that applause.
If it was wrong the day before it was passed, why was it right the day after it was passed?
Where had been the candor of criticism not only, but the concert of counsel which makes legislative
action vigorous and safe and successful?

It is not patriotic to concert measures against one another; it is patriotic to concert measures
for one another.

In one sense the Declaration of Independence has lost its significance. It has lost its significance
as a declaration of national independence. Nobody outside of America believed when it was uttered
that we could make good our independence; now nobody anywhere would dare to doubt that we are
independent and can maintain our independence. As a declaration of independence, therefore,
it is a mere historic document. Our independence is a fact so stupendous that it can be measured
only by the size and energy and variety and wealth and power of one of the greatest nations
in the world. But it is one thing to be independent and it is another thing to know what to
do with your independence. It is one thing to come to your majority and another thing to know
what you are going to do with your life and your energies; and one of the most serious questions
for sober-minded men to address themselves to in the United States is this: What are we going
to do with the influence and power of this great Nation? Are we going to play the old role
of using that power for our aggrandizement and material benefit only? You know what that may
mean. It may upon occasion mean that we shall use it to make the peoples of other nations suffer
in the way in which we said it was intolerable to suffer when we uttered our Declaration of
Independence.

The Department of State at Washington is constantly called upon to back up the commercial enterprises
and the industrial enterprises of the United States in foreign countries, and it at one time
went so far in that direction that all its diplomacy came to be designated as "dollar diplomacy."
It was called upon to support every man who wanted to earn anything anywhere if he was an American.
But there ought to be a limit to that. There is no man who is more interested than I am in
carrying the enterprise of American business men to every quarter of the globe. I was interested
in it long before I was suspected of being a politician. I have been preaching it year after
year as the great thing that lay in the future for the United States, to show her wit and skill
and enterprise and influence in every country in the world. But observe the limit to all that
which is laid upon us perhaps more than upon any other nation in the world. We set this Nation
up, at any rate we professed to set it up, to vindicate the rights of men. We did not name
any differences between one race and another. We did not set up any barriers against any particular
people. We opened our gates to all the world and said, "Let all men who wish to be free come
to us and they will be welcome." We said, "This independence of ours is not a selfish thing
for our own exclusive private use. It is for everybody to whom we can find the means of extending
it." We cannot with that oath taken in our youth, we cannot with that great ideal set before
us when we were a young people and numbered only a scant 3,000,000, take upon ourselves, now
that we are 100,000,000 strong, any other conception of duty than we then entertained. If American
enterprise in foreign countries, particularly in those foreign countries which are not strong
enough to resist us, takes the shape of imposing upon and exploiting the mass of the people
of that country it ought to be checked and not encouraged. I am willing to get anything for
an American that money and enterprise can obtain except the suppression of the rights of other
men. I will not help any man buy a power which he ought not to exercise over his fellow-beings.

You know, my fellow-countrymen, what a big question there is in Mexico. Eighty-five per cent
of the Mexican people have never been allowed to have any genuine participation in their own
Government or to exercise any substantial rights with regard to the very land they live upon.
All the rights that men most desire have been exercised by the other fifteen per cent. Do you
suppose that that circumstance is not sometimes in my thought? I know that the American people
have a heart that will beat just as strong for those millions in Mexico as it will beat, or
has beaten, for any other millions elsewhere in the world, and that when once they conceive
what is at stake in Mexico they will know what ought to be done in Mexico. I hear a great deal
said about the loss of property in Mexico and the loss of the lives of foreigners, and I deplore
these things with all my heart. Undoubtedly, upon the conclusion of the present disturbed conditions
in Mexico those who have been unjustly deprived of their property or in any wise unjustly put
upon ought to be compensated. Men's individual rights have no doubt been invaded, and the invasion
of those rights has been attended by many deplorable circumstances which ought sometime, in
the proper way, to be accounted for. But back of it all is the struggle of a people to come
into its own, and while we look upon the incidents in the foreground let us not forget the
great tragic reality in the background which towers above the whole picture.

A patriotic American is a man who is not niggardly and selfish in the things that he enjoys
that make for human liberty and the rights of man. He wants to share them with the whole world,
and he is never so proud of the great flag under which he lives as when it comes to mean to
other people as well as to himself a symbol of hope and liberty. I would be ashamed of this
flag if it ever did anything outside America that we would not permit it to do inside of America.

The world is becoming more complicated every day, my fellow-citizens. No man ought to be foolish
enough to think that he understands it all. And, therefore, I am glad that there are some simple
things in the world. One of the simple things is principle. Honesty is a perfectly simple thing.
It is hard for me to believe that in most circumstances when a man has a choice of ways he
does not know which is the right way and which is the wrong way. No man who has chosen the
wrong way ought even to come into Independence Square; it is holy ground which he ought not
to tread upon. He ought not to come where immortal voices have uttered the great sentences
of such a document as this Declaration of Independence upon which rests the liberty of a whole
nation.

And so I say that it is patriotic sometimes to prefer the honor of the country to its material
interest. Would you rather be deemed by all the nations of the world incapable of keeping your
treaty obligations in order that you might have free tolls for American ships? The treaty under
which we gave up that right may have been a mistaken treaty, but there was no mistake about
its meaning.

When I have made a promise as a man I try to keep it, and I know of no other rule permissible
to a nation. The most distinguished nation in the world is the nation that can and will keep
its promises even to its own hurt. And I want to say parenthetically that I do not think anybody
was hurt. I cannot be enthusiastic for subsidies to a monopoly, but let those who are enthusiastic
for subsidies ask themselves whether they prefer subsidies to unsullied honor.

The most patriotic man, ladies and gentlemen, is sometimes the man who goes in the direction
that he thinks right even when he sees half the world against him. It is the dictate of patriotism
to sacrifice yourself if you think that that is the path of honor and of duty. Do not blame
others if they do not agree with you. Do not die with bitterness in your heart because you
did not convince the rest of the world, but die happy because you believe that you tried to
serve your country by not selling your soul. Those were grim days, the days of 1776. Those
gentlemen did not attach their names to the Declaration of Independence on this table expecting
a holiday on the next day, and that 4th of July was not itself a holiday. They attached their
signatures to that significant document knowing that if they failed it was certain that every
one of them would hang for the failure. They were committing treason in the interest of the
liberty of 3,000,000 people in America. All the rest of the world was against them and smiled
with cynical incredulity at the audacious undertaking. Do you think that if they could see
this great Nation now they would regret anything that they then did to draw the gaze of a hostile
world upon them? Every idea must be started by somebody, and it is a lonely thing to start
anything. Yet if it is in you, you must start it if you have a man's blood in you and if you
love the country that you profess to be working for.

I am sometimes very much interested when I see gentlemen supposing that popularity is the way
to success in America. The way to success in this great country, with its fair judgments, is
to show that you are not afraid of anybody except God and his final verdict. If I did not believe
that, I would not believe in democracy. If I did not believe that, I would not believe that
people can govern themselves. If I did not believe that the moral judgment would be the last
judgment, the final judgment, in the minds of men as well as the tribunal of God, I could not
believe in popular government. But I do believe these things, and, therefore, I earnestly believe
in the democracy not only of America but of every awakened people that wishes and intends to
govern and control its own affairs.

It is very inspiring, my friends, to come to this that may be called the original fountain
of independence and liberty in American and here drink draughts of patriotic feeling which
seem to renew the very blood in one's veins. Down in Washington sometimes when the days are
hot and the business presses intolerably and there are so many things to do that it does not
seem possible to do anything in the way it ought to be done, it is always possible to lift
one's thought above the task of the moment and, as it were, to realize that great thing of
which we are all parts, the great body of American feeling and American principle. No man could
do the work that has to be done in Washington if he allowed himself to be separated from that
body of principle. He must make himself feel that he is a part of the people of the United
States, that he is trying to think not only for them, but with them, and then he cannot feel
lonely. He not only cannot feel lonely but he cannot feel afraid of anything.

My dream is that as the years go on and the world knows more and more of America it will also
drink at these fountains of youth and renewal; that it also will turn to America for those
moral inspirations which lie at the basis of all freedom; that the world will never fear America
unless it feels that it is engaged in some enterprise which is inconsistent with the rights
of humanity; and that America will come into the full light of the day when all shall know
that she puts human rights above all other rights and that her flag is the flag not only of
America but of humanity.

What other great people has devoted itself to this exalted ideal? To what other nation in the
world can all eyes look for an instant sympathy that thrills the whole body politic when men
anywhere are fighting for their rights? I do not know that there will ever be a declaration
of independence and of grievances for mankind, but I believe that if any such document is ever
drawn it will be drawn in the spirit of the American Declaration of Independence, and that
America has lifted high the light which will shine unto all generations and guide the feet
of mankind to the goal of justice and liberty and peace.

AMERICAN NEUTRALITY

[An appeal to the citizens of the Republic, requesting their assistance in maintaining a state
of neutrality during the European War, August 20, 1914.]

MY FELLOW-COUNTRYMEN:

I suppose that every thoughtful man in America has asked himself, during these last troubled
weeks, what influence the European war may exert upon the United States, and I take the liberty
of addressing a few words to you in order to point out that it is entirely within our own choice
what its effects upon us will be and to urge very earnestly upon you the sort of speech and
conduct which will best safeguard the Nation against distress and disaster.

The effect of the war upon the United States will depend upon what American citizens say and
do. Every man who really loves America will act and speak in the true spirit of neutrality,
which is the spirit of impartiality and fairness and friendliness to all concerned. The spirit
of the Nation in this critical matter will be determined largely by what individuals and society
and those gathered in public meetings do and say, upon what newspapers and magazines contain,
upon what ministers utter in their pulpits, and men proclaim as their opinions on the street.

The people of the United States are drawn from many nations, and chiefly from the nations now
at war. It is natural and inevitable that there should be the utmost variety of sympathy and
desire among them with regard to the issues and circumstances of the conflict. Some will wish
one nation, others another, to succeed in the momentous struggle. It will be easy to excite
passion and difficult to allay it. Those responsible for exciting it will assume a heavy responsibility,
responsibility for no less a thing than that the people of the United States, whose love of
their country and whose loyalty to its Government should unite them as Americans all, bound
in honor and affection to think first of her and her interests, may be divided in camps of
hostile opinion, hot against each other, involved in the war itself in impulse and opinion
if not in action.

Such divisions among us would be fatal to our peace of mind and might seriously stand in the
way of the proper performance of our duty as the one great nation at peace, the one people
holding itself ready to play a part of impartial mediation and speak the counsels of peace
and accommodation, not as a partisan, but as a friend.

I venture, therefore, my fellow countrymen, to speak a solemn word of warning to you against
that deepest, most subtle, most essential breach of neutrality which may spring out of partisanship,
out of passionately taking sides. The United States must be neutral in fact as well as in name
during these days that are to try men's souls. We must be impartial in thought as well as in
action, must put a curb upon our sentiments as well as upon every transaction that might be
construed as a preference of one party to the struggle before another.

My thought is of America. I am speaking, I feel sure, the earnest wish and purpose of every
thoughtful American that this great country of ours, which is, of course, the first in our
thoughts and in our hearts, should show herself in this time of peculiar trial a Nation fit
beyond others to exhibit the fine poise of undisturbed judgment, the dignity of self-control,
the efficiency of dispassionate action; a Nation that neither sits in judgment upon others
nor is disturbed in her own counsels and which keeps herself fit and free to do what is honest
and disinterested and truly serviceable for the peace of the world.

Shall we not resolve to put upon ourselves the restraints which will bring to our people the
happiness and the great and lasting influence for peace we covet for them?

APPEAL FOR ADDITIONAL REVENUE

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, September 4, 1914.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

I come to you to-day to discharge a duty which I wish with all my heart I might have been spared;
but it is a very clear duty, and therefore I perform it without hesitation or apology. I come
to ask very earnestly that additional revenue be provided for the Government.

During the month of August there was, as compared with the corresponding month of last year,
a falling off of $10,629,538 in the revenues collected from customs. A continuation of this
decrease in the same proportion throughout the current fiscal year would probably mean a loss
of customs revenues of from sixty to one hundred millions. I need not tell you to what this
falling off is due. It is due, in chief part, not to the reductions recently made in the customs
duties, but to the great decrease in importations; and that is due to the extraordinary extent
of the industrial area affected by the present war in Europe. Conditions have arisen which
no man foresaw; they affect the whole world of commerce and economic production; and they must
be faced and dealt with.

It would be very unwise to postpone dealing with them. Delay in such a matter and in the particular
circumstances in which we now find ourselves as a nation might involve consequences of the
most embarrassing and deplorable sort, for which I, for one, would not care to be responsible.
It would be very dangerous in the present circumstances to create a moment's doubt as to the
strength and sufficiency of the Treasury of the United States, its ability to assist, to steady,
and sustain the financial operations of the country's business. If the Treasury is known, or
even thought, to be weak, where will be our peace of mind? The whole industrial activity of
the country would be chilled and demoralized. Just now the peculiarly difficult financial problems
of the moment are being successfully dealt with, with great self-possession and good sense
and very sound judgment; but they are only in process of being worked out. If the process of
solution is to be completed, no one must be given reason to doubt the solidity and adequacy
of the Treasury of the Government which stands behind the whole method by which our difficulties
are being met and handled.

The Treasury itself could get along for a considerable period, no doubt, without immediate
resort to new sources of taxation. But at what cost to the business of the community? Approximately
$75,000,000, a large part of the present Treasury balance, is now on deposit with national
banks distributed throughout the country. It is deposited, of course, on call. I need not point
out to you what the probable consequences of inconvenience and distress and confusion would
be if the diminishing income of the Treasury should make it necessary rapidly to withdraw these
deposits. And yet without additional revenue that plainly might become necessary, and the time
when it became necessary could not be controlled or determined by the convenience of the business
of the country. It would have to be determined by the operations and necessities of the Treasury
itself. Such risks are not necessary and ought not to be run. We cannot too scrupulously or
carefully safeguard a financial situation which is at best, while war continues in Europe,
difficult and abnormal. Hesitation and delay are the worst forms of bad policy under such conditions.

And we ought not to borrow. We ought to resort to taxation, however we may regret the necessity
of putting additional temporary burdens on our people. To sell bonds would be to make a most
untimely and unjustifiable demand on the money market; untimely, because this is manifestly
not the time to withdraw working capital from other uses to pay the Government's bills; unjustifiable,
because unnecessary. The country is able to pay any just and reasonable taxes without distress.
And to every other form of borrowing, whether for long periods or, for short, there is the
same objection. These are not the circumstances, this is at this particular moment and in this
particular exigency not the market, to borrow large sums of money. What we are seeking is to
ease and assist every financial transaction, not to add a single additional embarrassment to
the situation. The people of this country are both intelligent and profoundly patriotic. They
are ready to meet the present conditions in the right way and to support the Government with
generous self-denial. They know and understand, and will be intolerant only of those who dodge
responsibility or are not frank with them.

The occasion is not of our own making. We had no part in making it. But it is here. It affects
us as directly and palpably almost as if we were participants in the circumstances which gave
rise to it. We must accept the inevitable with calm judgment and unruffled spirits, like men
accustomed to deal with the unexpected, habituated to take care of themselves, masters of their
own affairs and their own fortunes. We shall pay the bill, though we did not deliberately incur it.

In order to meet every demand upon the Treasury without delay or peradventure and in order
to keep the Treasury strong, unquestionably strong, and strong throughout the present anxieties,
I respectfully urge that an additional revenue of $100,000,000 be raised through internal taxes
devised in your wisdom to meet the emergency. The only suggestion I take the liberty of making
is that such sources of revenue be chosen as will begin to yield at once and yield with a certain
and constant flow.

I cannot close without expressing the confidence with which I approach a Congress, with regard
to this or any other matter, which has shown so untiring a devotion to public duty, which has
responded to the needs of the Nation throughout a long season despite inevitable fatigue and
personal sacrifice, and so large a proportion of whose Members have devoted their whole time
and energy to the business of the country.

THE OPINION OF THE WORLD

[Address before the American Bar Association, in Continental Hall, October 20, 1914.]

MR. PRESIDENT, GENTLEMEN OF THE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION:

I am very deeply gratified by the greeting that your president has given me and by your response
to it. My only strength lies in your confidence.

We stand now in a peculiar case. Our first thought, I suppose, as lawyers, is of international
law, of those bonds of right and principle which draw the nations together and hold the community
of the world to some standards of action. We know that we see in international law, as it were,
the moral processes by which law itself came into existence. I know that as a lawyer I have
myself at times felt that there was no real comparison between the law of a nation and the
law of nations, because the latter lacked the sanction that gave the former strength and validity.
And yet, if you look into the matter more closely, you will find that the two have the same
foundations, and that those foundations are more evident and conspicuous in our day than they
have ever been before.

The opinion of the world is the mistress of the world; and the processes of international law
are the slow processes by which opinion works its will. What impresses me is the constant thought
that that is the tribunal at the bar of which we all sit. I would call your attention, incidentally,
to the circumstance that it does not observe the ordinary rules of evidence; which has sometimes
suggested to me that the ordinary rules of evidence had shown some signs of growing antique.
Everything, rumor included, is heard in this court, and the standard of judgment is not so
much the character of the testimony as the character of the witness. The motives are disclosed,
the purposes are conjectured, and that opinion is finally accepted which seems to be, not the
best founded in law, perhaps, but the best founded in integrity of character and of morals.
That is the process which is slowly working its will upon the world; and what we should be
watchful of is not so much jealous interests as sound principles of action. The disinterested
course is always the biggest course to pursue not only, but it is in the long run the most
profitable course to pursue. If you can establish your character, you can establish your credit.

What I wanted to suggest to this association, in bidding them very hearty welcome to the city,
is whether we sufficiently apply these same ideas to the body of municipal law which we seek
to administer. Citations seem to play so much larger a role now than principle. There was a
time when the thoughtful eye of the judge rested upon the changes of social circumstances and
almost palpably saw the law arise out of human life. Have we got to a time when the only way
to change law is by statute? The changing of law by statute seems to me like mending a garment
with a patch, whereas law should grow by the life that is in it, not by the life that is outside
of it.

I once said to a lawyer with whom I was discussing some question of precedent, and in whose
presence I was venturing to doubt the rational validity, at any rate, of the particular precedents
he cited, "After all, isn't our object justice?" And he said, "God forbid! We should be very
much confused if we made that our standard. Our standard is to find out what the rule has been
and how the rule that has been applies to the case that is." I should hate to think that the
law was based entirely upon "has beens." I should hate to think that the law did not derive
its impulse from looking forward rather than from looking backward, or, rather, that it did
not derive its instruction from looking about and seeing what the circumstances of man actually
are and what the impulses of justice necessarily are.

Understand me, gentlemen, I am not venturing in this presence to impeach the law. For the present,
by the force of circumstances, I am in part the embodiment of the law, and it would be very
awkward to disavow myself. But I do wish to make this intimation, that in this time of world
change, in this time when we are going to find out just how, in what particulars, and to what
extent the real facts of human life and the real moral judgments of mankind prevail, it is
worth while looking inside our municipal law and seeing whether the judgments of the law are
made square with the moral judgments of mankind. For I believe that we are custodians, not
of commands, but of a spirit. We are custodians of the spirit of righteousness, of the spirit
of equal-handed justice, of the spirit of hope which believes in the perfectibility of the
law with the perfectibility of human life itself.

Public life, like private life, would be very dull and dry if it were not for this belief in
the essential beauty of the human spirit and the belief that the human spirit could be translated
into action and into ordinance. Not entire. You cannot go any faster than you can advance the
average moral judgments of the mass, but you can go at least as fast as that, and you can see
to it that you do not lag behind the average moral judgments of the mass. I have in my life
dealt with all sorts and conditions of men, and I have found that the flame of moral judgment
burned just as bright in the man of humble life and limited experience as in the scholar and
the man of affairs. And I would like his voice always to be heard, not as a witness, not as
speaking in his own case, but as if he were the voice of men in general, in our courts of justice,
as well as the voice of the lawyers, remembering what the law has been. My hope is that, being
stirred to the depths by the extraordinary circumstances of the time in which we live, we may
recover from those depths something of a renewal of that vision of the law with which men may
be supposed to have started out in the old days of the oracles, who communed with the intimations
of divinity.

THE POWER OF CHRISTIAN YOUNG MEN

[Address at the Young Men's Christian Association's Celebration, Pittsburgh, October 24, 1914.]

MR. PRESIDENT, MR. PORTER, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

I feel almost as if I were a truant, being away from Washington to-day, but I thought that
perhaps if I were absent the Congress would have the more leisure to adjourn. I do not ordinarily
open my office at Washington on Saturday. Being a schoolmaster, I am accustomed to a Saturday
holiday, and I thought I could not better spend a holiday than by showing at least something
of the true direction of my affections; for by long association with the men who have worked
for this organization I can say that it has enlisted my deep affection.

I am interested in it for various reasons. First of all, because it is an association of young
men. I have had a good deal to do with young men in my time, and I have formed an impression
of them which I believe to be contrary to the general impression. They are generally thought
to be arch radicals. As a matter of fact, they are the most conservative people I have ever
dealt with. Go to a college community and try to change the least custom of that little world
and find how the conservatives will rush at you. Moreover, young men are embarrassed by having
inherited their fathers' opinions. I have often said that the use of a university is to make
young gentlemen as unlike their fathers as possible. I do not say that with the least disrespect
for the fathers; but every man who is old enough to have a son in college is old enough to
have become very seriously immersed in some particular business and is almost certain to have
caught the point of view of that particular business. And it is very useful to his son to be
taken out of that narrow circle, conducted to some high place where he may see the general
map of the world and of the interests of mankind, and there shown how big the world is and
how much of it his father may happen to have forgotten. It would be worth while for men, middle-aged
and old, to detach themselves more frequently from the things that command their daily attention
and to think of the sweeping tides of humanity.

Therefore I am interested in this association, because it is intended to bring young men together
before any crust has formed over them, before they have been hardened to any particular occupation,
before they have caught an inveterate point of view; while they still have a searchlight that
they can swing and see what it reveals of all the circumstances of the hidden world.

I am the more interested in it because it is an association of young men who are Christians.
I wonder if we attach sufficient importance to Christianity as a mere instrumentality in the
life of mankind. For one, I am not fond of thinking of Christianity as the means of saving
individual souls. I have always been very impatient of processes and institutions which said
that their purpose was to put every man in the way of developing his character. My advice is:
Do not think about your character. If you will think about what you ought to do for other people,
your character will take care of itself. Character is a by-product, and any man who devotes
himself to its cultivation in his own case will become a selfish prig. The only way your powers
can become great is by exerting them outside the circle of your own narrow, special, selfish
interests. And that is the reason of Christianity. Christ came into the world to save others,
not to save himself; and no man is a true Christian who does not think constantly of how he
can lift his brother, how he can assist his friend, how he can enlighten mankind, how he can
make virtue the rule of conduct in the circle in which he lives. An association merely of young
men might be an association that had its energies put forth in every direction, but an association
of Christian young men is an association meant to put its shoulders under the world and lift
it, so that other men may feel that they have companions in bearing the weight and heat of
the day; that other men may know that there are those who care for them, who would go into
places of difficulty and danger to rescue them, who regard themselves as their brother's keeper.

And, then, I am glad that it is an association. Every word of its title means an element of
strength. Young men are strong. Christian young men are the strongest kind of young men, and
when they associate themselves together they have the incomparable strength of organization.
The Young Men's Christian Association once excited, perhaps it is not too much to say, the
hostility of the organized churches of the Christian world, because the movement looked as
if it were so non-sectarian, as if it were so outside the ecclesiastical field, that perhaps
it was an effort to draw young men away from the churches and to substitute this organization
for the great bodies of Christian people who joined themselves in the Christian denominations.
But after a while it appeared that it was a great instrumentality that belonged to all the
churches; that it was a common instrument for sending the light of Christianity out into the
world in its most practical form, drawing young men who were strangers into places where they
could have companionship that stimulated them and suggestions that kept them straight and occupations
that amused them without vicious practice; and then, by surrounding themselves with an atmosphere
of purity and of simplicity of life, catch something of a glimpse of the great ideal which
Christ lifted when He was elevated upon the cross.

I remember hearing a very wise man say once, a man grown old in the service of a great church,
that he had never taught his son religion dogmatically at any time; that he and the boy's mother
had agreed that if the atmosphere of that home did not make a Christian of the boy, nothing
that they could say would make a Christian of him. They knew that Christianity was catching,
and if they did not have it, it would not be communicated. If they did have it, it would penetrate
while the boy slept, almost; while he was unconscious of the sweet influences that were about
him, while he reckoned nothing of instruction, but merely breathed into his lungs the wholesome
air of a Christian home. That is the principle of the Young Men's Christian Association--to
make a place where the atmosphere makes great ideals contagious. That is the reason that I
said, though I had forgotten that I said it, what is quoted on the outer page of the program--that
you can test a modern community by the degree of its interest in its Young Men's Christian
Association. You can test whether it knows what road it wants to travel or not. You can test
whether it is deeply interested in the spiritual and essential prosperity of its rising generation.
I know of no test that can be more conclusively put to a community than that.

I want to suggest to the young men of this association that it is the duty of young men not
only to combine for the things that are good, but to combine in a militant spirit. There is
a fine passage in one of Milton's prose writings which I am sorry to say I cannot quote, but
the meaning of which I can give you, and it is worth hearing.[E] He says that he has no patience
with a cloistered virtue that does not go out and seek its adversary. Ah, how tired I am of
the men who are merely on the defensive, who hedge themselves in, who perhaps enlarge the hedge
enough to include their little family circle and ward off all the evil influences of the world
from that loved and hallowed group. How tired I am of the men whose virtue is selfish because
it is merely self-protective! And how much I wish that men by the hundred thousand might volunteer
to go out and seek an adversary and subdue him!

I have had the fortune to take part in affairs of a considerable variety of sorts, and I have
tried to hate as few persons as possible, but there is an exquisite combination of contempt
and hate that I have for a particular kind of person, and that is the moral coward. I wish
we could give all our cowards a perpetual vacation. Let them go off and sit on the side lines
and see us play the game; and put them off the field if they interfere with the game. They
do nothing but harm, and they do it by that most subtle and fatal thing of all, that of taking
the momentum and the spirit and the forward dash out of things. A man who is virtuous and a
coward has no marketable virtue about him. The virtue, I repeat, which is merely self-defensive
is not serviceable even, I suspect, to himself. For how a man can swallow and not taste bad
when he is a coward and thinking only of himself I cannot imagine.

Be militant! Be an organization that is going to do things! If you can find older men who will
give you countenance and acceptable leadership, follow them; but if you cannot, organize separately
and dispense with them. There are only two sorts of men worth associating with when something
is to be done. Those are young men and men who never grow old. Now, if you find men who have
grown old, about whom the crust has hardened, whose hinges are stiff, whose minds always have
their eye over the shoulder thinking of things as they were done, do not have anything to do
with them. It would not be Christian to exclude them from your organization, but merely use
them to pad the roll. If you can find older men who will lead you acceptably and keep you in
countenance, I am bound as an older man to advise you to follow them. But suit yourselves.
Do not follow people that stand still. Just remind them that this is not a statical proposition;
it is a movement, and if they cannot get a move on them they are not serviceable.

Life, gentlemen--the life of society, the life of the world--has constantly to be fed from
the bottom. It has to be fed by those great sources of strength which are constantly rising
in new generations. Red blood has to be pumped into it. New fiber has to be supplied. That
is the reason I have always said that I believed in popular institutions. If you can guess
beforehand whom your rulers are going to be, you can guess with a very great certainty that
most of them will not be fit to rule. The beauty of popular institutions is that you do not
know where the man is going to come from, and you do not care so he is the right man. You do
not know whether he will come from the avenue or from the alley. You do not know whether he
will come from the city or the farm. You do not know whether you will ever have heard that
name before or not. Therefore you do not limit at any point your supply of new strength. You
do not say it has got to come through the blood of a particular family or through the processes
of a particular training, or by anything except the native impulse and genius of the man himself.
The humblest hovel, therefore, may produce you your greatest man. A very humble hovel did produce
you one of your greatest men. That is the process of life, this constant surging up of the
new strength of unnamed, unrecognized, uncatalogued men who are just getting into the running,
who are just coming up from the masses of the unrecognized multitude. You do not know when
you will see above the level masses of the crowd some great stature lifted head and shoulders
above the rest, shouldering its way, not violently but gently, to the front and saying, "Here
am I; follow me." And his voice will be your voice, his thought will be your thought, and you
will follow him as if you were following the best things in yourselves.

When I think of an association of Christian young men I wonder that it has not already turned
the world upside down. I wonder, not that it has done so much, for it has done a great deal,
but that it has done so little; and I can only conjecture that it does not realize its own
strength. I can only imagine that it has not yet got its pace. I wish I could believe, and
I do believe, that at seventy it is just reaching its majority, and that from this time on
a dream greater even than George Williams[F] ever dreamed will be realized in the great accumulating
momentum of Christian men throughout the world. For, gentlemen, this is an age in which the
principles of men who utter public opinion dominate the world. It makes no difference what
is done for the time being. After the struggle is over the jury will sit, and nobody can corrupt
that jury.

At one time I tried to write history. I did not know enough to write it, but I knew from experience
how hard it was to find an historian out, and I trusted I would not be found out. I used to
have this comfortable thought as I saw men struggling in the public arena. I used to think
to myself, "This is all very well and very interesting. You probably assess yourself in such
and such a way. Those who are your partisans assess you thus and so. Those who are your opponents
urge a different verdict. But it does not make very much difference, because after you are
dead and gone some quiet historian will sit in a secluded room and tell mankind for the rest
of time just what to think about you, and his verdict, not the verdict of your partisans and
not the verdict of your opponents, will be the verdict of posterity." I say that I used to
say that to myself. It very largely was not so. And yet it was true in this sense: If the historian
really speaks the judgment of the succeeding generation, then he really speaks the judgment
also of the generations that succeed it, and his assessment, made without the passion of the
time, made without partisan feeling in the matter--in other circumstances, when the air is
cool--is the judgment of mankind upon your actions.

Now, is it not very important that we who shall constitute a portion of the jury should get
our best judgments to work and base them upon Christian forbearance and Christian principles,
upon the idea that it is impossible by sophistication to establish that a thing that is wrong
is right? And yet, while we are going to judge with the absolute standard of righteousness,
we are going to judge with Christian feeling, being men of a like sort ourselves, suffering
the same temptations, having the same weaknesses, knowing the same passions; and while we do
not condemn, we are going to seek to say and to live the truth. What I am hoping for is that
these seventy years have just been a running start, and that now there will be a great rush
of Christian principle upon the strongholds of evil and of wrong in the world. Those strongholds
are not as strong as they look. Almost every vicious man is afraid of society, and if you once
open the door where he is, he will run. All you have to do is to fight, not with cannon but
with light.

May I illustrate it in this way? The Government of the United States has just succeeded in
concluding a large number of treaties with the leading nations of the world, the sum and substance
of which is this, that whenever any trouble arises the light shall shine on it for a year before
anything is done; and my prediction is that after the light has shone on it for a year it will
not be necessary to do anything; that after we know what happened, then we will know who was
right and who was wrong. I believe that light is the greatest sanitary influence in the world.
That, I suppose, is scientific commonplace, because if you want to make a place wholesome the
best instrument you can use is the sun; to let his rays in, let him search out all the miasma
that may lurk there. So with moral light: It is the most wholesome and rectifying, as well
as the most revealing, thing in the world, provided it be genuine moral light; not the light
of inquisitiveness, not the light of the man who likes to turn up ugly things, not the light
of the man who disturbs what is corrupt for the mere sake of the sensation that he creates
by disturbing it, but the moral light, the light of the man who discloses it in order that
all the sweet influences of the world may go in and make it better.

That, in my judgment, is what the Young Men's Christian Association can do. It can point out
to its members the things that are wrong. It can guide the feet of those who are going astray;
and when its members have realized the power of the Christian principle, then they will not
be men if they do not unite to see that the rest of the world experiences the same emancipation
and reaches the same happiness of release.

I believe in the Young Men's Christian Association because I believe in the progress of moral
ideas in the world; and I do not know that I am sure of anything else. When you are after something
and have formulated it and have done the very best thing you know how to do you have got to
be sure for the time being that that is the thing to do. But you are a fool if in the back
of your head you do not know it is possible that you are mistaken. All that you can claim is
that that is the thing as you see it now and that you cannot stand still; that you must push
forward the things that are right. It may turn out that you made mistakes, but what you do
know is your direction, and you are sure you are moving in that way. I was once a college reformer,
until discouraged, and I remember a classmate of mine saying, "Why, man, can't you let anything
alone?" I said, "I let everything alone that you can show me is not itself moving in the wrong
direction, but I am not going to let those things alone that I see are going downhill"; and
I borrowed this illustration from an ingenious writer. He says, "If you have a post that is
painted white and want to keep it white, you cannot let it alone; and if anybody says to you,
'Why don't you let that post alone,' you will say, 'Because I want it to stay white, and therefore
I have got to paint it at least every second year.'" There isn't anything in this world that
will not change if you absolutely let it alone, and therefore you have constantly to be attending
to it to see that it is being taken care of in the right way and that, if it is part of the
motive force of the world, it is moving in the right direction.

That means that eternal vigilance is the price, not only of liberty, but of a great many other
things. It is the price of everything that is good. It is the price of one's own soul. It is
the price of the souls of the people you love; and when it comes down to the final reckoning
you have a standard that is immutable. What shall a man give in exchange for his own soul?
Will he sell that? Will he consent to see another man sell his soul? Will he consent to see
the conditions of his community such that men's souls are debauched and trodden underfoot in
the mire? What shall he give in exchange for his own soul, or any other man's soul? And since
the world, the world of affairs, the world of society, is nothing less and nothing more than
all of us put together, it is a great enterprise for the salvation of the soul in this world
as well as in the next. There is a text in Scripture that has always interested me profoundly.
It says godliness is profitable in this life as well as in the life that is to come; and if
you do not start it in this life, it will not reach the life that is to come. Your measurements,
your directions, your whole momentum, have to be established before you reach the next world.
This world is intended as the place in which we shall show that we know how to grow in the
stature of manliness and of righteousness.

I have come here to bid Godspeed to the great work of the Young Men's Christian Association.
I love to think of the gathering force of such things as this in the generations to come. If
a man had to measure the accomplishments of society, the progress of reform, the speed of the
world's betterment, by the few little things that happened in his own life, by the trifling
things that he can contribute to accomplish, he would indeed feel that the cost was much greater
than the result. But no man can look at the past of the history of this world without seeing
a vision of the future of the history of this world; and when you think of the accumulated
moral forces that have made one age better than another age in the progress of mankind, then
you can open your eyes to the vision. You can see that age by age, though with a blind struggle
in the dust of the road, though often mistaking the path and losing its way in the mire, mankind
is yet--sometimes with bloody hands and battered knees--nevertheless struggling step after
step up the slow stages to the day when he shall live in the full light which shines upon the
uplands, where all the light that illumines mankind shines direct from the face of God.

[E] In the Areopagitica: "I cannot praise a fugitive and cloistered virtue, unexercised and
unbreathed, that never sallies out and sees her adversary, but slinks out of the race, where
that immortal garland is to be run for, not without dust and heat."

[F] Sir George Williams, 1821-1905, an English philanthropist, founder of the Young Men's Christian
Association. Not only do I feel it to be a very serious matter to exercise the power of veto
in any case, because it involves opposing the single judgment of the President to the judgment
of a majority of both the Houses of the Congress, a step which no man who realizes his own
liability to error can take without great hesitation, but also because this particular bill
is in so many important respects admirable, well conceived, and desirable. Its enactment into
law would undoubtedly enhance the efficiency and improve the methods of handling the important
branch of the public service to which it relates. But candor and a sense of duty with regard
to the responsibility so clearly imposed upon me by the Constitution in matters of legislation
leave me no choice but to dissent.

In two particulars of vital consequence this bill embodies a radical departure from the traditional
and long-established policy of this country, a policy in which our people have conceived the
very character of their Government to be expressed, the very mission and spirit of the Nation
in respect of its relations to the peoples of the world outside their borders. It seeks to
all but close entirely the gates of asylum which have always been open to those who could find
nowhere else the right and opportunity of constitutional agitation for what they conceived
to be the natural and inalienable rights of men; and it excludes those to whom the opportunities
of elementary education have been denied, without regard to their character, their purposes,
or their natural capacity.

Restrictions like these, adopted earlier in our history as a Nation, would very materially
have altered the course and cooled the humane ardors of our politics. The right of political
asylum has brought to this country many a man of noble character and elevated purpose who was
marked as an outlaw in his own less fortunate land, and who has yet become an ornament to our
citizenship and to our public councils. The children and the compatriots of these illustrious
Americans must stand amazed to see the representatives of their Nation now resolved, in the
fullness of our national strength and at the maturity of our great institutions, to risk turning
such men back from our shores without test of quality or purpose. It is difficult for me to
believe that the full effect of this feature of the bill was realized when it was framed and
adopted, and it is impossible for me to assent to it in the form in which it is here cast.

The literacy test and the tests and restrictions which accompany it constitute an even more
radical change in the policy of the Nation. Hitherto we have generously kept our doors open
to all who were not unfitted by reason of disease or incapacity for self-support or such personal
records and antecedents as were likely to make them a menace to our peace and order or to the
wholesome and essential relationships of life. In this bill it is proposed to turn away from
tests of character and of quality and impose tests which exclude and restrict; for the new
tests here embodied are not tests of quality or of character or of personal fitness, but tests
of opportunity. Those who come seeking opportunity are not to be admitted unless they have
already had one of the chief of the opportunities they seek, the opportunity of education.
The object of such provisions is restriction, not selection.

If the people of this country have made up their minds to limit the number of immigrants by
arbitrary tests and so reverse the policy of all the generations of Americans that have gone
before them, it is their right to do so. I am their servant and have no license to stand in
their way. But I do not believe that they have. I respectfully submit that no one can quote
their mandate to that effect. Has any political party ever avowed a policy of restriction in
this fundamental matter, gone to the country on it, and been commissioned to control its legislation?
Does this bill rest upon the conscious and universal assent and desire of the American people?
I doubt it. It is because I doubt it that I make bold to dissent from it. I am willing to abide
by the verdict, but not until it has been rendered. Let the platforms of parties speak out
upon this policy and the people pronounce their wish. The matter is too fundamental to be settled
otherwise.

I have no pride of opinion in this question. I am not foolish enough to profess to know the
wishes and ideals of America better than the body of her chosen representatives know them.
I only want instruction direct from those whose fortunes, with ours and all men's, are involved.

WOODROW WILSON.

THE WHITE HOUSE, 28 January, 1915.

ADDRESS BEFORE THE UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

[Delivered in Washington, February 3, 1915.]

MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

I feel that it is hardly fair to you for me to come in in this casual fashion among a body
of men who have been seriously discussing great questions, and it is hardly fair to me, because
I come in cold, not having had the advantage of sharing the atmosphere of your deliberations
and catching the feeling of your conference. Moreover, I hardly know just how to express my
interest in the things you are undertaking. When a man stands outside an organization and speaks
to it he is too apt to have the tone of outside commendation, as who should say, "I would desire
to pat you on the back and say 'Good boys; you are doing well!'" I would a great deal rather
have you receive me as if for the time being I were one of your own number.

Because the longer I occupy the office that I now occupy the more I regret any lines of separation;
the more I deplore any feeling that one set of men has one set of interests and another set
of men another set of interests; the more I feel the solidarity of the Nation--the impossibility
of separating one interest from another without misconceiving it; the necessity that we should
all understand one another, in order that we may understand ourselves.

There is an illustration which I have used a great many times. I will use it again, because
it is the most serviceable to my own mind. We often speak of a man who cannot find his way
in some jungle or some desert as having "lost himself." Did you never reflect that that is
the only thing he has not lost? He is there. He has lost the rest of the world. He has no fixed
point by which to steer. He does not know which is north, which is south, which is east, which
is west; and if he did know, he is so confused that he would not know in which of those directions
his goal lay. Therefore, following his heart, he walks in a great circle from right to left
and comes back to where he started--to himself again. To my mind that is a picture of the world.
If you have lost sight of other interests and do not know the relation of your own interests
to those other interests, then you do not understand your own interests, and have lost yourself.
What you want is orientation, relationship to the points of the compass; relationship to the
other people in the world; vital connections which you have for the time being severed.

I am particularly glad to express my admiration for the kind of organization which you have
drawn together. I have attended banquets of chambers of commerce in various parts of the country
and have got the impression at each of those banquets that there was only one city in the country.
It has seemed to me that those associations were meant in order to destroy men's perspective,
in order to destroy their sense of relative proportions. Worst of all, if I may be permitted
to say so, they were intended to boost something in particular. Boosting is a very unhandsome
thing. Advancing enterprise is a very handsome thing, but to exaggerate local merits in order
to create disproportion in the general development is not a particularly handsome thing or
a particularly intelligent thing. A city cannot grow on the face of a great state like a mushroom
on that one spot. Its roots are throughout the state, and unless the state it is in, or the
region it draws from, can itself thrive and pulse with life as a whole, the city can have no
healthy growth. You forget the wide rootages of everything when you boost some particular region.
There are dangers which probably you all understand in the mere practice of advertisement.
When a man begins to advertise himself there are certain points that are somewhat exaggerated,
and I have noticed that men who exaggerate most, most quickly lose any proper conception of
what their own proportions are. Therefore, these local centers of enthusiasm may be local centers
of mistake if they are not very wisely guided and if they do not themselves realize their relations
to the other centers of enthusiasm and of advancement.

The advantage about a Chamber of Commerce of the United States is that there is only one way
to boost the United States, and that is by seeing to it that the conditions under which business
is done throughout the whole country are the best possible conditions. There cannot be any
disproportion about that. If you draw your sap and your vitality from all quarters, then the
more sap and vitality there is in you the more there is in the commonwealth as a whole, and
every time you lift at all you lift the whole level of manufacturing and mercantile enterprise.
Moreover, the advantage of it is that you cannot boost the United States in that way without
understanding the United States. You learn a great deal. I agreed with a colleague of mine
in the Cabinet the other day that we had never attended in our lives before a school to compare
with that we were now attending for the purpose of gaining a liberal education.

Of course, I learn a great many things that are not so, but the interesting thing about that
is this: Things that are not so do not match. If you hear enough of them, you see there is
no pattern whatever; it is a crazy quilt. Whereas, the truth always matches, piece by piece,
with other parts of the truth. No man can lie consistently, and he cannot lie about everything
if he talks to you long. I would guarantee that if enough liars talked to you, you would get
the truth; because the parts that they did not invent would match one another, and the parts
that they did invent would not match one another. Talk long enough, therefore, and see the
connections clearly enough, and you can patch together the case as a whole. I had somewhat
that experience about Mexico, and that was about the only way in which I learned anything that
was true about it. For there had been vivid imaginations and many special interests which depicted
things as they wished me to believe them to be.

Seriously, the task of this body is to match all the facts of business throughout the country
and to see the vast and consistent pattern of it. That is the reason I think you are to be
congratulated upon the fact that you cannot do this thing without common counsel. There isn't
any man who knows enough to comprehend the United States. It is coöperative effort, necessarily.
You cannot perform the functions of this Chamber of Commerce without drawing in not only a
vast number of men, but men, and a number of men, from every region and section of the country.
The minute this association falls into the hands, if it ever should, of men from a single section
or men with a single set of interests most at heart, it will go to seed and die. Its strength
must come from the uttermost parts of the land and must be compounded of brains and comprehensions
of every sort. It is a very noble and handsome picture for the imagination, and I have asked
myself before I came here to-day, what relation you could bear to the Government of the United
States and what relation the Government could bear to you?

There are two aspects and activities of the Government with which you will naturally come into
most direct contact. The first is the Government's power of inquiry, systematic and disinterested
inquiry, and its power of scientific assistance. You get an illustration of the latter, for
example, in the Department of Agriculture. Has it occurred to you, I wonder, that we are just
upon the eve of a time when our Department of Agriculture will be of infinite importance to
the whole world? There is a shortage of food in the world now. That shortage will be much more
serious a few months from now than it is now. It is necessary that we should plant a great
deal more; it is necessary that our lands should yield more per acre than they do now; it is
necessary that there should not be a plow or a spade idle in this country if the world is to
be fed. And the methods of our farmers must feed upon the scientific information to be derived
from the State departments of agriculture, and from that taproot of all, the United States
Department of Agriculture. The object and use of that department is to inform men of the latest
developments and disclosures of science with regard to all the processes by which soils can
be put to their proper use and their fertility made the greatest possible. Similarly with the
Bureau of Standards. It is ready to supply those things by which you can set norms, you can
set bases, for all the scientific processes of business.

I have a great admiration for the scientific parts of the Government of the United States,
and it has amazed me that so few men have discovered them. Here in these departments are quiet
men, trained to the highest degree of skill, serving for a petty remuneration along lines that
are infinitely useful to mankind; and yet in some cases they waited to be discovered until
this Chamber of Commerce of the United States was established. Coming to this city, officers
of that association found that there were here things that were infinitely useful to them and
with which the whole United States ought to be put into communication.

The Government of the United States is very properly a great instrumentality of inquiry and
information. One thing we are just beginning to do that we ought to have done long ago: We
ought long ago to have had our Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. We ought long ago to
have sent the best eyes of the Government out into the world to see where the opportunities
and openings of American commerce and American genius were to be found--men who were not sent
out as the commercial agents of any particular set of business men in the United States, but
who were eyes for the whole business community. I have been reading consular reports for twenty
years. In what I came to regard as an evil day the Congressman from my district began to send
me the consular reports, and they ate up more and more of my time. They are very interesting,
but they are a good deal like what the old lady said of the dictionary, that it was very interesting
but a little disconnected. You get a picture of the world as if a spotlight were being dotted
about over the surface of it. Here you see a glimpse of this, and here you see a glimpse of
that, and through the medium of some consuls you do not see anything at all. Because the consul
has to have eyes and the consul has to know what he is looking for. A literary friend of mine
said that he used to believe in the maxim that "everything comes to the man who waits," but
he discovered after awhile by practical experience that it needed an additional clause, "provided
he knows what he is waiting for." Unless you know what you are looking for and have trained
eyes to see it when it comes your way, it may pass you unnoticed. We are just beginning to
do, systematically and scientifically, what we ought long ago to have done, to employ the Government
of the United States to survey the world in order that American commerce might be guided.

But there are other ways of using the Government of the United States, ways that have long
been tried, though not always with conspicuous success or fortunate results. You can use the
Government of the United States by influencing its legislation. That has been a very active
industry, but it has not always been managed in the interest of the whole people. It is very
instructive and useful for the Government of the United States to have such means as you are
ready to supply for getting a sort of consensus of opinion which proceeds from no particular
quarter and originates with no particular interest. Information is the very foundation of all
right action in legislation.

I remember once, a good many years ago, I was attending one of the local chambers of commerce
of the United States at a time when everybody was complaining that Congress was interfering
with business. If you have heard that complaint recently and supposed that it was original
with the men who made it, you have not lived as long as I have. It has been going on ever since
I can remember. The complaint came most vigorously from men who were interested in large corporate
development. I took the liberty to say to that body of men, whom I did not know, that I took
it for granted that there were a great many lawyers among them, and that it was likely that
the more prominent of those lawyers were the intimate advisors of the corporations of that
region. I said that I had met a great many lawyers from whom the complaint had come most vigorously,
not only that there was too much legislation with regard to corporations, but that it was ignorant
legislation. I said, "Now, the responsibility is with you. If the legislation is mistaken,
you are on the inside and know where the mistakes are being made. You know not only the innocent
and right things that your corporations are doing, but you know the other things, too. Knowing
how they are done, you can be expert advisors as to how the wrong things can be prevented.
If, therefore, this thing is handled ignorantly, there is nobody to blame but yourselves."
If we on the outside cannot understand the thing and cannot get advice from the inside, then
we will have to do it with the flat hand and not with the touch of skill and discrimination.
Isn't that true? Men on the inside of business know how business is conducted and they cannot
complain if men on the outside make mistakes about business if they do not come from the inside
and give the kind of advice which is necessary.

The trouble has been that when they came in the past--for I think the thing is changing very
rapidly--they came with all their bristles out; they came on the defensive; they came to see,
not what they could accomplish, but what they could prevent. They did not come to guide; they
came to block. That is of no use whatever to the general body politic. What has got to pervade
us like a great motive power is that we cannot, and must not, separate our interests from one
another, but must pool our interests. A man who is trying to fight for his single hand is fighting
against the community and not fighting with it. There are a great many dreadful things about
war, as nobody needs to be told in this day of distress and of terror, but there is one thing
about war which has a very splendid side, and that is the consciousness that a whole nation
gets that they must all act as a unit for a common end. And when peace is as handsome as war
there will be no war. When men, I mean, engage in the pursuits of peace in the same spirit
of self-sacrifice and of conscious service of the community with which, at any rate, the common
soldier engages in war, then shall there be wars no more. You have moved the vanguard for the
United States in the purposes of this association just a little nearer that ideal. That is
the reason I am here, because I believe it.

There is a specific matter about which I, for one, want your advice. Let me say, if I may say
it without disrespect, that I do not think you are prepared to give it right away. You will
have to make some rather extended inquiries before you are ready to give it. What I am thinking
of is competition in foreign markets as between the merchants of different nations.

I speak of the subject with a certain degree of hesitation, because the thing farthest from
my thought is taking advantage of nations now disabled from playing their full part in that
competition, and seeking a sudden selfish advantage because they are for the time being disabled.
Pray believe me that we ought to eliminate all that thought from our minds and consider this
matter as if we and the other nations now at war were in the normal circumstances of commerce.

There is a normal circumstance of commerce in which we are apparently at a disadvantage. Our
anti-trust laws are thought by some to make it illegal for merchants in the United States to
form combinations for the purpose of strengthening themselves in taking advantage of the opportunities
of foreign trade. That is a very serious matter for this reason: There are some corporations,
and some firms for all I know, whose business is great enough and whose resources are abundant
enough to enable them to establish selling agencies in foreign countries; to enable them to
extend the long credits which in some cases are necessary in order to keep the trade they desire;
to enable them, in other words, to organize their business in foreign territory in a way which
the smaller man cannot afford to do. His business has not grown big enough to permit him to
establish selling agencies. The export commission merchant, perhaps, taxes him a little too
highly to make that an available competitive means of conducting and extending his business.

The question arises, therefore, how are the smaller merchants, how are the younger and weaker
corporations going to get a foothold as against the combinations which are permitted and even
encouraged by foreign governments in this field of competition? There are governments which,
as you know, distinctly encourage the formation of great combinations in each particular field
of commerce in order to maintain selling agencies and to extend long credits, and to use and
maintain the machinery which is necessary for the extension of business; and American merchants
feel that they are at a very considerable disadvantage in contending against that. The matter
has been many times brought to my attention, and I have each time suspended judgment. I want
to be shown this: I want to be shown how such a combination can be made and conducted in a
way which will not close it against the use of everybody who wants to use it. A combination
has a tendency to exclude new members. When a group of men get control of a good thing, they
do not see any particular point in letting other people into the good thing. What I would like
very much to be shown, therefore, is a method of coöperation which is not a method of combination.
Not that the two words are mutually exclusive, but we have come to have a special meaning attached
to the word "combination." Most of our combinations have a safety lock, and you have to know
the combination to get in. I want to know how these coöperative methods can be adopted for
the benefit of everybody who wants to use them, and I say frankly if I can be shown that, I
am for them. If I cannot be shown that, I am against them. I hasten to add that I hopefully
expect I can be shown that.

You, as I have just now intimated, probably cannot show it to me offhand, but by the methods
which you have the means of using you certainly ought to be able to throw a vast deal of light
on the subject. Because the minute you ask the small merchant, the small banker, the country
man, how he looks upon these things and how he thinks they ought to be arranged in order that
he can use them, if he is like some of the men in country districts whom I know, he will turn
out to have had a good deal of thought upon that subject and to be able to make some very interesting
suggestions whose intelligence and comprehensiveness will surprise some city gentlemen who
think that only the cities understand the business of the country. As a matter of fact, you
do not have time to think in a city. It takes time to think. You can get what you call opinions
by contagion in a city and get them very quickly, but you do not always know where the germ
came from. And you have no scientific laboratory method by which to determine whether it is
a good germ or a bad germ.

There are thinking spaces in this country, and some of the thinking done is very solid thinking
indeed, the thinking of the sort of men that we all love best, who think for themselves, who
do not see things as they are told to see them, but look at them and see them independently;
who, if they are told they are white when they are black, plainly say that they are black--men
with eyes and with a courage back of those eyes to tell what they see. The country is full
of those men. They have been singularly reticent sometimes, singularly silent, but the country
is full of them. And what I rejoice in is that you have called them into the ranks. For your
methods are bound to be democratic in spite of you. I do not mean democratic with a big "D,"
though I have a private conviction that you cannot be democratic with a small "d" long without
becoming democratic with a big "D." Still that is just between ourselves. The point is that
when we have a consensus of opinion, when we have this common counsel, then the legislative
processes of this Government will be infinitely illuminated.

I used to wonder when I was Governor of one of the States of this great country where all the
bills came from. Some of them had a very private complexion. I found upon inquiry--it was easy
to find--that practically nine-tenths of the bills that were introduced had been handed to
the members who introduced them by some constituent of theirs, had been drawn up by some lawyer
whom they might or might not know, and were intended to do something that would be beneficial
to a particular set of persons. I do not mean, necessarily, beneficial in a way that would
be hurtful to the rest; they may have been perfectly honest, but they came out of cubby-holes
all over the State. They did not come out of public places where men had got together and compared
views. They were not the products of common counsel, but the products of private counsel, a
very necessary process if there is no other, but a process which it would be a very happy thing
to dispense with if we could get another. And the only other process is the process of common
counsel.

Some of the happiest experiences of my life have been like this. We had once when I was president
of a university to revise the whole course of study.[G] Courses of study are chronically in
need of revision. A committee of, I believe, fourteen men was directed by the faculty of the
university to report a revised curriculum. Naturally, the men who had the most ideas on the
subject were picked out and, naturally, each man came with a very definite notion of the kind
of revision he wanted, and one of the first discoveries we made was that no two of us wanted
exactly the same revision. I went in there with all my war paint on to get the revision I wanted,
and I dare say, though it was perhaps more skillfully concealed, the other men had their war
paint on, too. We discussed the matter for six months. The result was a report which no one
of us had conceived or foreseen, but with which we were all absolutely satisfied. There was
not a man who had not learned in that committee more than he had ever known before about the
subject, and who had not willingly revised his prepossessions; who was not proud to be a participant
in a genuine piece of common counsel. I have had several experiences of that sort, and it has
led me, whenever I confer, to hold my particular opinion provisionally, as my contribution
to go into the final result but not to dominate the final result.

That is the ideal of a government like ours, and an interesting thing is that if you only talk
about an idea that will not work long enough, everybody will see perfectly plainly that it
will not work; whereas, if you do not talk about it, and do not have a great many people talk
about it, you are in danger of having the people who handle it think that it will work. Many
minds are necessary to compound a workable method of life in a various and populous country;
and as I think about the whole thing and picture the purposes, the infinitely difficult and
complex purposes which we must conceive and carry out, not only does it minister to my own
modesty, I hope, of opinion, but it also fills me with a very great enthusiasm. It is a splendid
thing to be part of a great wide-awake Nation. It is a splendid thing to know that your own
strength is infinitely multiplied by the strength of other men who love the country as you
do. It is a splendid thing to feel that the wholesome blood of a great country can be united
in common purposes, and that by frankly looking one another in the face and taking counsel
with one another, prejudices will drop away, handsome understandings will arise, a universal
spirit of service will be engendered, and that with this increased sense of community of purpose
will come a vastly enhanced individual power of achievement; for we will be lifted by the whole
mass of which we constitute a part.

Have you never heard a great chorus of trained voices lift the voice of the prima donna as
if it soared with easy grace above the whole melodious sound? It does not seem to come from
the single throat that produces it. It seems as if it were the perfect accent and crown of
the great chorus. So it ought to be with the statesman. So it ought to be with every man who
tries to guide the counsels of a great nation. He should feel that his voice is lifted upon
the chorus and that it is only the crown of the common theme.

[G] This was at Princeton, in 1902 and 1903.

TO NATURALIZED CITIZENS

[Address delivered at Convention Hall, Philadelphia, May 10, 1915. The audience included four
thousand newly naturalized citizens. This speech attracted great attention because in it no
reference was made to the sinking of the "Lusitania," three days before.]

MR. MAYOR, FELLOW-CITIZENS:

It warms my heart that you should give me such a reception; but it is not of myself that I
wish to think to-night, but of those who have just become citizens of the United States.

This is the only country in the world which experiences this constant and repeated rebirth.
Other countries depend upon the multiplication of their own native people. This country is
constantly drinking strength out of new sources by the voluntary association with it of great
bodies of strong men and forward-looking women out of other lands. And so by the gift of the
free will of independent people it is being constantly renewed from generation to generation
by the same process by which it was originally created. It is as if humanity had determined
to see to it that this great Nation, founded for the benefit of humanity, should not lack for
the allegiance of the people of the world.

You have just taken an oath of allegiance to the United States. Of allegiance to whom? Of allegiance
to no one, unless it be God--certainly not of allegiance to those who temporarily represent
this great Government. You have taken an oath of allegiance to a great ideal, to a great body
of principles, to a great hope of the human race. You have said, "We are going to America not
only to earn a living, not only to seek the things which it was more difficult to obtain where
we were born, but to help forward the great enterprises of the human spirit--to let men know
that everywhere in the world there are men who will cross strange oceans and go where a speech
is spoken which is alien to them if they can but satisfy their quest for what their spirits
crave; knowing that whatever the speech there is but one longing and utterance of the human
heart, and that is for liberty and justice." And while you bring all countries with you, you
come with a purpose of leaving all other countries behind you--bringing what is best of their
spirit, but not looking over your shoulders and seeking to perpetuate what you intended to
leave behind in them. I certainly would not be one even to suggest that a man cease to love
the home of his birth and the nation of his origin--these things are very sacred and ought
not to be put out of our hearts--but it is one thing to love the place where you were born
and it is another thing to dedicate yourself to the place to which you go. You cannot dedicate
yourself to America unless you become in every respect and with every purpose of your will
thorough Americans. You cannot become thorough Americans if you think of yourselves in groups.
America does not consist of groups. A man who thinks of himself as belonging to a particular
national group in America has not yet become an American, and the man who goes among you to
trade upon your nationality is no worthy son to live under the Stars and Stripes.

My urgent advice to you would be, not only always to think first of America, but always, also,
to think first of humanity. You do not love humanity if you seek to divide humanity into jealous
camps. Humanity can be welded together only by love, by sympathy, by justice, not by jealousy
and hatred. I am sorry for the man who seeks to make personal capital out of the passions of
his fellow-men. He has lost the touch and ideal of America, for America was created to unite
mankind by those passions which lift and not by the passions which separate and debase. We
came to America, either ourselves or in the persons of our ancestors, to better the ideals
of men, to make them see finer things than they had seen before, to get rid of the things that
divide and to make sure of the things that unite. It was but an historical accident no doubt
that this great country was called the "United States"; yet I am very thankful that it has
that word "United" in its title, and the man who seeks to divide man from man, group from group,
interest from interest in this great Union is striking at its very heart.

It is a very interesting circumstance to me, in thinking of those of you who have just sworn
allegiance to this great Government, that you were drawn across the ocean by some beckoning
finger of hope, by some belief, by some vision of a new kind of justice, by some expectation
of a better kind of life. No doubt you have been disappointed in some of us. Some of us are
very disappointing. No doubt you have found that justice in the United States goes only with
a pure heart and a right purpose as it does everywhere else in the world. No doubt what you
found here did not seem touched for you, after all, with the complete beauty of the ideal which
you had conceived beforehand. But remember this: If we had grown at all poor in the ideal,
you brought some of it with you. A man does not go out to seek the thing that is not in him.
A man does not hope for the thing that he does not believe in, and if some of us have forgotten
what America believed in, you, at any rate, imported in your own hearts a renewal of the belief.
That is the reason that I, for one, make you welcome. If I have in any degree forgotten what
America was intended for, I will thank God if you will remind me. I was born in America. You
dreamed dreams of what America was to be, and I hope you brought the dreams with you. No man
that does not see visions will ever realize any high hope or undertake any high enterprise.
Just because you brought dreams with you, America is more likely to realize dreams such as
you brought. You are enriching us if you came expecting us to be better than we are.

See, my friends, what that means. It means that Americans must have a consciousness different
from the consciousness of every other nation in the world. I am not saying this with even the
slightest thought of criticism of other nations. You know how it is with a family. A family
gets centered on itself if it is not careful and is less interested in the neighbors than it
is in its own members. So a nation that is not constantly renewed out of new sources is apt
to have the narrowness and prejudice of a family; whereas, America must have this consciousness,
that on all sides it touches elbows and touches hearts with all the nations of mankind. The
example of America must be a special example. The example of America must be the example not
merely of peace because it will not fight, but of peace because peace is the healing and elevating
influence of the world and strife is not. There is such a thing as a man being too proud to
fight. There is such a thing as a nation being so right that it does not need to convince others
by force that it is right.

You have come into this great Nation voluntarily seeking something that we have to give, and
all that we have to give is this: We cannot exempt you from work. No man is exempt from work
anywhere in the world. We cannot exempt you from the strife and the heartbreaking burden of
the struggle of the day--that is common to mankind everywhere; we cannot exempt you from the
loads that you must carry. We can only make them light by the spirit in which they are carried.
That is the spirit of hope, it is the spirit of liberty, it is the spirit of justice.

When I was asked, therefore, by the Mayor and the committee that accompanied him to come up
from Washington to meet this great company of newly admitted citizens, I could not decline
the invitation. I ought not to be away from Washington, and yet I feel that it has renewed
my spirit as an American to be here. In Washington men tell you so many things every day that
are not so, and I like to come and stand in the presence of a great body of my fellow-citizens,
whether they have been fellow-citizens a long time or a short time, and drink, as it were,
out of the common fountains with them and go back feeling what you have so generously given
me--the sense of your support and of the living vitality in your hearts of the great ideals
which have made America the hope of the world.

ADDRESS AT MILWAUKEE

[Between January 27 and February 3, 1916, President Wilson made a series of speeches in New
York, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Milwaukee, Chicago, Des Moines, Topeka, Kansas City, and St. Louis.
The address made at Milwaukee, on January 31, has been chosen as representing the general tenor
and spirit of the whole series.]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND FELLOW-CITIZENS:

I need not inquire whether the citizens of Milwaukee and Wisconsin are interested in the subject
of my errand. The presence of this great body in this vast hall sufficiently attests your interest,
but I want at the outset to remove a misapprehension that I fear may exist in your mind. There
is no sudden crisis; nothing new has happened; I am not out upon this errand because of any
unexpected situation. I have come to confer with you upon a matter upon which it would, in
any circumstances, be necessary for us to confer when all the rest of the world is on fire
and our own house is not fireproof. Everywhere the atmosphere of the world is thrilling with
the passion of a disturbance such as the world has never seen before, and it is wise, in the
words just uttered by your chairman, that we should see that our own house is set in order
and that everything is done to make certain that we shall not suffer by the general conflagration.

There were some dangers to which this Nation seemed at the outset of the war to be exposed,
which, I think I can say with confidence, are now passed and overcome. America has drawn her
blood and her strength out of almost all the nations of the world. It is true of a great many
of us that there lies deep in our hearts the recollection of an origin which is not American.
We are aware that our roots, our traditions, run back into other national soils. There are
songs that stir us; there are some far-away historical recollections which engage our affections
and stir our memories. We cannot forget our forbears; we cannot altogether ignore the fact
of our essential blood relationship; and at the outset of this war it did look as if there
were a division of domestic sentiment which might lead us to some errors of judgment and some
errors of action; but I, for one, believe that that danger is passed. I never doubted that
the danger was exaggerated, because I had learned long ago, and many of you will corroborate
me by your experience, that it is not the men who are doing the talking always who represent
the real sentiments of the Nation. I for my part always feel a serene confidence in waiting
for the declaration of the principles and sentiments of the men who are not vociferous, do
not go about seeking to make trouble, do their own thinking, attend to their own business,
and love their own country.

I have at no time supposed that the men whose voices seemed to contain the threat of division
amongst us were really uttering the sentiments even of those whom they pretended to represent.
I for my part have no jealousy of family sentiment. I have no jealousy of that deep affection
which runs back through long lineage. It would be a pity if we forget the fine things that
our ancestors have done. But I also know the magic of America; I also know the great principles
which thrill men in the singular body politic to which we belong in the United States. I know
the impulses which have drawn men to our shores. They have not come idly; they have not come
without conscious purpose to be free; they have not come without voluntary desire to unite
themselves with the great nation on this side of the sea; and I know that whenever the test
comes every man's heart will be first for America. It was principle and affection and ambition
and hope that drew men to these shores, and they are not going to forget the errand upon which
they came and allow America, the home of their refuge and hope, to suffer by any forgetfulness
on their part. And so the trouble makers have shot their bolt, and it has been ineffectual.
Some of them have been vociferous; all of them have been exceedingly irresponsible. Talk was
cheap, and that was all it cost them. They did not have to do anything. But you will know without
my telling you that the man whom for the time being you have charged with the duties of President
of the United States must talk with a deep sense of responsibility, and he must remember, above
all things else, the fine traditions of his office which some men seem to have forgotten. There
is no precedent in American history for any action of aggression on the part of the United
States or for any action which might mean that America is seeking to connect herself with the
controversies on the other side of the water. Men who seek to provoke us to such action have
forgotten the traditions of the United States, but it behooves those with whom you have entrusted
office to remember the traditions of the United States and to see to it that the actions of
the Government are made to square with those traditions.

But there are other dangers, my fellow-citizens, which are not past and which have not been
overcome, and they are dangers which we cannot control. We can control irresponsible talkers
amidst ourselves. All we have got to do is to encourage them to hire a hall and their folly
will be abundantly advertised by themselves. But we cannot in this simple fashion control the
dangers that surround us now and have surrounded us since this titanic struggle on the other
side of the water began. I say on the other side of the water; you will ask me, "On the other
side of which water," for this great struggle has extended to all quarters of the globe. There
is no continent outside, I was about to say, of this Western Hemisphere which is not touched
with it, but I recollected as I began the sentence that a part of our own continent was touched
with it, because it involves our neighbors to the north in Canada. There is no part of the
world, except South America, to which the direct influences of this struggle have not extended,
so that now we are completely surrounded by this tremendous disturbance and you must realize
what that involves.

Our thoughts are concentrated upon our own affairs and our own relations to the rest of the
world, but the thoughts of the men who are engaged in this struggle are concentrated upon the
struggle itself, and there is daily and hourly danger that they will feel themselves constrained
to do things which are absolutely inconsistent with the rights of the United States. They are
not thinking of us. I am not criticising them for not thinking of us. I dare say if I were
in their place neither would I think of us. They believe that they are struggling for the lives
and honor of their nations, and that if the United States puts its interests in the path of
this great struggle, she ought to know beforehand that there is danger of very serious misunderstanding
and difficulty. So that the very uncalculating, unpremeditated, one might almost say accidental,
course of affairs may touch us to the quick at any moment, and I want you to realize that,
standing in the midst of these difficulties, I feel that I am charged with a double duty of
the utmost difficulty. In the first place, I know that you are depending upon me to keep this
Nation out of the war. So far I have done so, and I pledge you my word that, God helping me,
I will if it is possible. But you have laid another duty upon me. You have bidden me to see
it that nothing stains or impairs the honor of the United States, and that is a matter not
within my control; that depends upon what others do, not upon what the Government of the United
States does. Therefore there may at any moment come a time when I cannot preserve both the
honor and the peace of the United States. Do not exact of me an impossible and contradictory
thing, but stand ready and insistent that everybody who represents you should stand ready to
provide the necessary means for maintaining the honor of the United States.

I sometimes think that it is true that no people ever went to war with another people. Governments
have gone to war with one another. Peoples, so far as I remember, have not, and this is a government
of the people, and this people is not going to choose war. But we are not dealing with people;
we are dealing with Governments. We are dealing with Governments now engaged in a great struggle,
and therefore we do not know what a day or an hour will bring forth. All that we know is the
character of our own duty. We do not want the question of peace and war, or the conduct of
war, entrusted too entirely to our Government. We want war, if it must come, to be something
that springs out of the sentiments and principles and actions of the people themselves; and
it is on that account that I am counseling the Congress of the United States not to take the
advice of those who recommend that we should have, and have very soon, a great standing Army,
but, on the contrary, to see to it that the citizens of this country are so trained and that
the military equipment is so sufficiently provided for them that when they choose they can
take up arms and defend themselves.

The Constitution of the United States makes the President the Commander in Chief of the Army
and Navy of the Nation, but I do not want a big Army subject to my personal command. If danger
comes, I want to turn to you and the rest of my fellow-countrymen and say, "Men, are you ready?"
and I know what the response will be. I know that there will spring up out of the body of the
Nation a great host of free men, and I want those men not to be mere targets for shot and shell.
I want them to know something of the arms they have in their hands. I want them to know something
about how to guard against the diseases that creep into camps, where men are unaccustomed to
live. I want them to know something of what the orders mean that they will be under when they
enlist under arms for the Government of the United States. I want them to be men who can comprehend
and easily and intelligently step into the duty of national defense. That is the reason that
I am urging upon the Congress of the United States at any rate the beginnings of a system by
which we may give a very considerable body of our fellow-citizens the necessary training.

I have not forgotten the great National Guard of this country, but in this country of 100,000,000
people there are only 129,000 men in the National Guard; and the National Guard, fine as it
is, is not subject to the orders of the President of the United States. It is subject to the
orders of the Governors of the several States, and the Constitution itself says that the President
has no right to withdraw them from their States even, except in the case of actual invasion
of the soil of the United States. I want the Congress of the United States to do a great deal
for the National Guard, but I do not see how the Congress of the United States can put the
National Guard at the disposal of the national authorities. Therefore it seems to me absolutely
necessary that in addition to the National Guard there should be a considerable body of men
with some training in the military art who will have pledged themselves to come at the call
of the Nation.

I have been told by those who have a greater knack at guessing statistics than I have that
there are probably several million men in the United States who, either in this country or
in other countries from which they have come to the United States, have received training in
arms. It may be; I do not know, and I suspect that they do not either, but even if it be true,
these men are not subject to the call of the Federal Government. They would have to be found;
they would have to be induced to enlist; they would have to be organized; their numbers are
indefinite; and they would have to be equipped. Such are not the materials which we need. We
want to know who these men are and where they are and to have everything ready for them if
they should come to our assistance. For we have now got down, not to the sentiment of national
defense, but to the business of national defense. It is a business proposition and it must
be treated as such. And there are abundant precedents for the proposals which have been made
to the Congress. Even that arch-Democrat, Thomas Jefferson, believed that there ought to be
compulsory military training for the adult men of the Nation, because he believed, as every
true believer in democracy believes, that it is upon the voluntary action of the men of a great
Nation like this that it must depend for its military force.

There is another misapprehension that I want to remove from your minds: Do not think that I
have come to talk to you about these things because I doubt whether they are going to be done
or not. I do not doubt it for a moment, but I believe that when great things of this sort are
going to be done the people of this country are entitled to know just what is being proposed.
As a friend of mine says, I am not arguing with you; I am telling you. I am not trying to convert
you to anything, because I know that in your hearts you are converted already, but I want you
to know the motives of what is proposed and the character of what is proposed, in order that
we should have only one attitude and counsel with regard to this great matter.

It is being very sedulously spread abroad in this country that the impulse back of all this
is the desire of men who make the materials of warfare to get money out of the Treasury of
the United States. I wish the people that say that could see meetings like this. Did you come
here for that purpose? Did you come here because you are interested to see some of your fellow-citizens
make money out of the present situation? Of course you did not. I am ready to admit that probably
the equipment of those men whom we are training will have to be bought from somebody, and I
know that if the equipment is bought, it will have to be paid for; and I dare say somebody
will make some money out of it. It is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that there are men now,
a great many men, in the belligerent countries who are growing rich out of the sale of the
materials needed by the armies of those countries. If the Government itself does not manufacture
everything that an army needs, somebody has got to make money out of it, and I for my part
have been urging the Congress of the United States to make the necessary preparations by which
the Government can manufacture armor plate and munitions, so that, being in the business itself
and having the ability to manufacture all it needs, if it is put upon a business basis, it
can at any rate keep the price that it pays within moderate and reasonable limits. The Government
of the United States is not going to be imposed upon by anybody, and you may rest assured,
therefore, that while I believe you prefer that private capital and private initiative should
bestir themselves in these matters, it is also possible, and I assure you that it is most likely,
that the Government of the United States will have adequate means of controlling this matter
very thoroughly indeed. There need be no fear on that side. Let nobody suppose that this is
a money-making agitation. I would for one be ashamed to be such a dupe as to be engaged in
it if it had any suspicion of that about it, but I am not as innocent as I look; and I believe
that I can say for my colleagues in Washington that they are just as watchful in such matters
as you would desire them to be.

And there is another misapprehension that I do not wish you to entertain. Do not suppose that
there is any new or sudden or recent inadequacy on the part of this Government in respect of
preparation for national defense. I have heard some gentlemen say that we had no coast defenses
worth talking about. Coast defenses are not nowadays advertised, you understand, and they are
not visible to the naked eye, so that if you passed them and nothing exploded, you would not
know they were there. The coast defenses of the United States, while not numerous enough, are
equipped in the most modern and efficient fashion. You are told that there has been some sort
of neglect about the Navy. There has not been any sort of neglect about the Navy. We have been
slowly building up a Navy which in quality is second to no navy in the world. The only thing
it lacks is quantity. In size it is the fourth navy in the world, though I have heard it said
by some gentlemen in this very region that it was the second. In fighting force, though not
in quality, it is reckoned by experts to be the fourth in rank in the world; and yet when I
go on board those ships and see their equipment and talk with their officers I suspect that
they could give an account of themselves which would raise them above the fourth class. It
reminds me of that very quaint saying of the old darky preacher, "The Lord says unto Moses,
come fourth, and he came fifth and lost the race." But I think this Navy would not come fourth
in the race, but higher.

What we are proposing now is not the sudden creation of a Navy, for we have a splendid Navy,
but the definite working out of a program by which within five years we shall bring the Navy
to a fighting strength which otherwise might have taken eight or ten years; along exactly the
same lines of development that have been followed and followed diligently and intelligently
for at least a decade past. There is no sudden panic, there is no sudden change of plan; all
that has happened is that we now see that we ought more rapidly and more thoroughly than ever
before to do the things which have always been characteristic of America. For she has always
been proud of her Navy and has always been addicted to the principle that her citizenship must
do the fighting on land. We are working out American principle a little faster, because American
pulses are beating a little faster, because the world is in a whirl, because there are incalculable
elements of trouble abroad which we cannot control or alter. I would be derelict to the duty
which you have laid upon me if I did not tell you that it was absolutely necessary to carry
out our principles in this matter now and at once.

And yet all the time, my fellow-citizens, I believe that in these things we are merely interpreting
the spirit of America. Who shall say what the spirit of America is? I have many times heard
orators apostrophize this beautiful flag which is the emblem of the Nation. I have many times
heard orators and philosophers speak of the spirit which was resident in America. I have always
for my own part felt that it was an act of audacity to attempt to characterize anything of
that kind, and when I have been outside of the country in foreign lands and have been asked
if this, that, or the other was true of America I have habitually said, "Nothing stated in
general terms is true of America, because it is the most variegated and varied and multiform
land under the sun." Yet I know that if you turn away from the physical aspects of the country,
if you turn away from the variety of the strains of blood that make up our great population,
if you turn away from the great variations of occupation and of interest among our fellow-citizens,
there is a spiritual unity in America. I know that there are some things which stir every heart
in America, no matter what the racial derivation or the local environment, and one of the things
that stirs every American is the love of individual liberty. We do not stand for occupations.
We do not stand for material interests. We do not stand for any narrow conception even of political
institutions; but we do stand for this, that we are banded together in America to see to it
that no man shall serve any master who is not of his own choosing. And we have been very liberal
and generous about this idea. We have seen great peoples, for the most part not of the same
blood with ourselves, to the south of us build up polities in which this same idea pulsed and
was regnant, this idea of free institutions and individual liberty, and when we have seen hands
reached across the water from older political polities to interfere with the development of
free institutions on the Western Hemisphere we have said: "No; we are the champions of the
freedom of popular sovereignty wherever it displays or exercises itself throughout both Americas."
We are the champions of a particular sort of freedom, the sort of freedom which is the only
foundation and guarantee of peace.

Peace lies in the hearts of great industrial and agricultural populations, and we have arranged
a government on this side of the water by which their preferences and their predilections and
their interests are the mainsprings of government itself. And so when we prepare for national
defense we prepare for national political integrity; we prepare to take care of the great ideals
which gave birth to this Government; we are going back in spirit and in energy to those great
first generations in America, when men banded themselves together, though they were but a handful
upon a single coast of the Atlantic, to set up in the world the standards which have ever since
floated everywhere that Americans asserted the power of their Government. As I came along the
line of the railway to-day, I was touched to observe that everywhere, upon every railway station,
upon every house, where a flag could be procured, some temporary standard had been raised from
which there floated the stars and stripes. They seemed to have divined the errand upon which
I had come, to remind you that we must subordinate every individual interest and every local
interest to assert once more, if it should be necessary to assert them, the great principles
for which that flag stands.

Do not deceive yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, as to where the colors of that flag came from.
Those lines of red are lines of blood, nobly and unselfishly shed by men who loved the liberty
of their fellow-men more than they loved their own lives and fortunes. God forbid that we should
have to use the blood of America to freshen the color of that flag; but if it should ever be
necessary again to assert the majesty and integrity of those ancient and honorable principles,
that flag will be colored once more, and in being colored will be glorified and purified.

THE SUBMARINE QUESTION

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, April 19, 1916.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

A situation has arisen in the foreign relations of the country of which it is my plain duty
to inform you very frankly.

It will be recalled that in February, 1915, the Imperial German Government announced its intention
to treat the waters surrounding Great Britain and Ireland as embraced within the seat of war
and to destroy all merchant ships owned by its enemies that might be found within any part
of that portion of the high seas, and that it warned all vessels, of neutral as well as of
belligerent ownership, to keep out of the waters it had thus proscribed or else enter them
at their peril. The Government of the United States earnestly protested. It took the position
that such a policy could not be pursued without the practical certainty of gross and palpable
violations of the law of nations, particularly if submarine craft were to be employed as its
instruments, inasmuch as the rules prescribed by that law, rules founded upon principles of
humanity and established for the protection of the lives of non-combatants at sea, could not
in the nature of the case be observed by such vessels. It based its protest on the ground that
persons of neutral nationality and vessels of neutral ownership would be exposed to extreme
and intolerable risks, and that no right to close any part of the high seas against their use
or to expose them to such risks could lawfully be asserted by any belligerent government. The
law of nations in these matters, upon which the Government of the United States based its protest,
is not of recent origin or founded upon merely arbitrary principles set up by convention. It
is based, on the contrary, upon manifest and imperative principles of humanity and has long
been established with the approval and by the express assent of all civilized nations.

Notwithstanding the earnest protest of our Government, the Imperial German Government at once
proceeded to carry out the policy it had announced. It expressed the hope that the dangers
involved, at any rate the dangers to neutral vessels, would be reduced to a minimum by the
instructions which it had issued to its submarine commanders, and assured the Government of
the United States that it would take every possible precaution both to respect the rights of
neutrals and to safeguard the lives of non-combatants.

What has actually happened in the year which has since elapsed has shown that those hopes were
not justified, those assurances insusceptible of being fulfilled. In pursuance of the policy
of submarine warfare against the commerce of its adversaries, thus announced and entered upon
by the Imperial German Government in despite of the solemn protest of this Government, the
commanders of German undersea vessels have attacked merchant ships with greater and greater
activity, not only upon the high seas surrounding Great Britain and Ireland but wherever they
could encounter them, in a way that has grown more and more ruthless, more and more indiscriminate
as the months have gone by, less and less observant of restraints of any kind; and have delivered
their attacks without compunction against vessels of every nationality and bound upon every
sort of errand. Vessels of neutral ownership, even vessels of neutral ownership bound from
neutral port to neutral port, have been destroyed along with vessels of belligerent ownership
in constantly increasing numbers. Sometimes the merchantman attacked has been warned and summoned
to surrender before being fired on or torpedoed; sometimes passengers or crews have been vouchsafed
the poor security of being allowed to take to the ship's boats before she was sent to the bottom.
But again and again no warning has been given, no escape even to the ship's boats allowed to
those on board. What this Government foresaw must happen has happened. Tragedy has followed
tragedy on the seas in such fashion, with such attendant circumstances, as to make it grossly
evident that warfare of such a sort, if warfare it be, cannot be carried on without the most
palpable violation of the dictates alike of right and of humanity. Whatever the disposition
and intention of the Imperial German Government, it has manifestly proved impossible for it
to keep such methods of attack upon the commerce of its enemies within the bounds set by either
the reason or the heart of mankind.

In February of the present year the Imperial German Government informed this Government and
the other neutral governments of the world that it had reason to believe that the Government
of Great Britain had armed all merchant vessels of British ownership and had given them secret
orders to attack any submarine of the enemy they might encounter upon the seas, and that the
Imperial German Government felt justified in the circumstances in treating all armed merchantmen
of belligerent ownership as auxiliary vessels of war, which it would have the right to destroy
without warning. The law of nations has long recognized the right of merchantmen to carry arms
for protection and to use them to repel attack, though to use them, in such circumstances,
at their own risk; but the Imperial German Government claimed the right to set these understandings
aside in circumstances which it deemed extraordinary. Even the terms in which it announced
its purpose thus still further to relax the restraints it had previously professed its willingness
and desire to put upon the operations of its submarines carried the plain implication that
at least vessels which were not armed would still be exempt from destruction without warning
and that personal safety would be accorded their passengers and crews; but even that limitation,
if it was ever practicable to observe it, has in fact constituted no check at all upon the
destruction of ships of every sort.

Again and again the Imperial German Government has given this Government its solemn assurances
that at least passenger ships would not be thus dealt with, and yet it has again and again
permitted its undersea commanders to disregard those assurances with entire impunity. Great
liners like the Lusitania and the Arabic and mere ferryboats like the Sussex have been attacked
without a moment's warning, sometimes before they had even become aware that they were in the
presence of an armed vessel of the enemy, and the lives of non-combatants, passengers and crew,
have been sacrificed wholesale, in a manner which the Government of the United States cannot
but regard as wanton and without the slightest color of justification. No limit of any kind
has in fact been set to the indiscriminate pursuit and destruction of merchantmen of all kinds
and nationalities within the waters, constantly extending in area, where these operations have
been carried on; and the roll of Americans who have lost their lives on ships thus attacked
and destroyed has grown month by month until the ominous toll has mounted into the hundreds.

One of the latest and most shocking instances of this method of warfare was that of the destruction
of the French cross-Channel steamer Sussex. It must stand forth, as the sinking of the steamer
Lusitania did, as so singularly tragical and unjustifiable as to constitute a truly terrible
example of the inhumanity of submarine warfare as the commanders of German vessels have for
the past twelvemonth been conducting it. If this instance stood alone, some explanation, some
disavowal by the German Government, some evidence of criminal mistake or wilful disobedience
on the part of the commander of the vessel that fired the torpedo might be sought or entertained;
but unhappily it does not stand alone. Recent events make the conclusion inevitable that it
is only one instance, even though it be one of the most extreme and distressing instances,
of the spirit and method of warfare which the Imperial German Government has mistakenly adopted,
and which from the first exposed that Government to the reproach of thrusting all neutral rights
aside in pursuit of its immediate objects.

The Government of the United States has been very patient. At every stage of this distressing
experience of tragedy after tragedy in which its own citizens were involved it has sought to
be restrained from any extreme course of action or of protest by a thoughtful consideration
of the extraordinary circumstances of this unprecedented war, and actuated in all that it said
or did by the sentiments of genuine friendship which the people of the United States have always
entertained and continue to entertain towards the German nation. It has of course accepted
the successive explanations and assurances of the Imperial German Government as given in entire
sincerity and good faith, and has hoped, even against hope, that it would prove to be possible
for the German Government so to order and control the acts of its naval commanders as to square
its policy with the principles of humanity as embodied in the law of nations. It has been willing
to wait until the significance of the facts became absolutely unmistakable and susceptible
of but one interpretation.

That point has now unhappily been reached. The facts are susceptible of but one interpretation.
The Imperial German Government has been unable to put any limits or restraints upon its warfare
against either freight or passenger ships. It has therefore become painfully evident that the
position which this Government took at the very outset is inevitable, namely, that the use
of submarines for the destruction of an enemy's commerce is of necessity, because of the very
character of the vessels employed and the very methods of attack which their employment of
course involves, incompatible with the principles of humanity, the long established and incontrovertible
rights of neutrals, and the sacred immunities of non-combatants.

I have deemed it my duty, therefore, to say to the Imperial German Government that if it is
still its purpose to prosecute relentless and indiscriminate warfare against vessels of commerce
by the use of submarines, notwithstanding the now demonstrated impossibility of conducting
that warfare in accordance with what the Government of the United States must consider the
sacred and indisputable rules of international law and the universally recognized dictates
of humanity, the Government of the United States is at last forced to the conclusion that there
is but one course it can pursue; and that unless the Imperial German Government should now
immediately declare and effect an abandonment of its present methods of warfare against passenger
and freight carrying vessels this Government can have no choice but to sever diplomatic relations
with the Government of the German Empire altogether.

This decision I have arrived at with the keenest regret; the possibility of the action contemplated
I am sure all thoughtful Americans will look forward to with unaffected reluctance. But we
cannot forget that we are in some sort and by the force of circumstances the responsible spokesmen
of the rights of humanity, and that we cannot remain silent while those rights seem in process
of being swept utterly away in the maelstrom of this terrible war. We owe it to a due regard
for our own rights as a nation, to our sense of duty as a representative of the rights of neutrals
the world over, and to a just conception of the rights of mankind to take this stand now with
the utmost solemnity and firmness.

I have taken it, and taken it in the confidence that it will meet with your approval and support.
All sober-minded men must unite in hoping that the Imperial German Government, which has in
other circumstances stood as the champion of all that we are now contending for in the interest
of humanity, may recognize the justice of our demands and meet them in the spirit in which
they are made.

AMERICAN PRINCIPLES

[Address delivered at the First Annual Assemblage of the League to Enforce Peace, May 27, 1916.]

When the invitation to be here to-night came to me, I was glad to accept it,--not because it
offered me an opportunity to discuss the program of the League,--that you will, I am sure,
not expect of me,--but because the desire of the whole world now turns eagerly, more and more
eagerly, towards the hope of peace, and there is just reason why we should take our part in
counsel upon this great theme. It is right that I, as spokesman of our Government, should attempt
to give expression to what I believe to be the thought and purpose of the people of the United
States in this vital matter.

This great war that broke so suddenly upon the world two years ago, and which has swept within
its flame so great a part of the civilized world, has affected us very profoundly, and we are
not only at liberty, it is perhaps our duty, to speak very frankly of it and of the great interests
of civilization which it affects.

With its causes and its objects we are not concerned. The obscure fountains from which its
stupendous flood has burst forth we are not interested to search for or explore. But so great
a flood, spread far and wide to every quarter of the globe, has of necessity engulfed many
a fair province of right that lies very near to us. Our own rights as a Nation, the liberties,
the privileges, and the property of our people have been profoundly affected. We are not mere
disconnected lookers-on. The longer the war lasts, the more deeply do we become concerned that
it should be brought to an end and the world be permitted to resume its normal life and course
again. And when it does come to an end we shall be as much concerned as the nations at war
to see peace assume an aspect of permanence, give promise of days from which the anxiety of
uncertainty shall be lifted, bring some assurance that peace and war shall always hereafter
be reckoned part of the common interest of mankind. We are participants, whether we would or
not, in the life of the world. The interests of all nations are our own also. We are partners
with the rest. What affects mankind is inevitably our affair as well as the affair of the nations
of Europe and of Asia.

One observation on the causes of the present war we are at liberty to make, and to make it
may throw some light forward upon the future, as well as backward upon the past. It is plain
that this war could have come only as it did, suddenly and out of secret counsels, without
warning to the world, without discussion, without any of the deliberate movements of counsel
with which it would seem natural to approach so stupendous a contest. It is probable that if
it had been foreseen just what would happen, just what alliances would be formed, just what
forces arrayed against one another, those who brought the great contest on would have been
glad to substitute conference for force. If we ourselves had been afforded some opportunity
to apprise the belligerents of the attitude which it would be our duty to take, of the policies
and practices against which we would feel bound to use all our moral and economic strength,
and in certain circumstances even our physical strength also, our own contribution to the counsel
which might have averted the struggle would have been considered worth weighing and regarding.

And the lesson which the shock of being taken by surprise in a matter so deeply vital to all
the nations of the world has made poignantly clear is, that the peace of the world must henceforth
depend upon a new and more wholesome diplomacy. Only when the great nations of the world have
reached some sort of agreement as to what they hold to be fundamental to their common interest,
and as to some feasible method of acting in concert when any nation or group of nations seeks
to disturb those fundamental things, can we feel that civilization is at last in a way of justifying
its existence and claiming to be finally established. It is clear that nations must in the
future be governed by the same high code of honor that we demand of individuals.

We must, indeed, in the very same breath with which we avow this conviction admit that we have
ourselves upon occasion in the past been offenders against the law of diplomacy which we thus
forecast; but our conviction is not the less clear, but rather the more clear, on that account.
If this war has accomplished nothing else for the benefit of the world, it has at least disclosed
a great moral necessity and set forward the thinking of the statesmen of the world by a whole
age. Repeated utterances of the leading statesmen of most of the great nations now engaged
in war have made it plain that their thought has come to this, that the principle of public
right must henceforth take precedence over the individual interests of particular nations,
and that the nations of the world must in some way band themselves together to see that that
right prevails as against any sort of selfish aggression; that henceforth alliance must not
be set up against alliance, understanding against understanding, but that there must be a common
agreement for a common object, and that at the heart of that common object must lie the inviolable
rights of peoples and of mankind. The nations of the world have become each other's neighbors.
It is to their interest that they should understand each other. In order that they may understand
each other, it is imperative that they should agree to coöperate in a common cause, and that
they should so act that the guiding principle of that common cause shall be even-handed and
impartial justice.

This is undoubtedly the thought of America. This is what we ourselves will say when there comes
proper occasion to say it. In the dealings of nations with one another arbitrary force must
be rejected and we must move forward to the thought of the modern world, the thought of which
peace is the very atmosphere. That thought constitutes a chief part of the passionate conviction
of America.

We believe these fundamental things: First, that every people has a right to choose the sovereignty
under which they shall live. Like other nations, we have ourselves no doubt once and again
offended against that principle when for a little while controlled by selfish passion, as our
franker historians have been honorable enough to admit; but it has become more and more our
rule of life and action. Second, that the small states of the world have a right to enjoy the
same respect for their sovereignty and for their territorial integrity that great and powerful
nations expect and insist upon. And, third, that the world has a right to be free from every
disturbance of its peace that has its origin in aggression and disregard of the rights of peoples
and nations.

So sincerely do we believe in these things that I am sure that I speak the mind and wish of
the people of America when I say that the United States is willing to become a partner in any
feasible association of nations formed in order to realize these objects and make them secure
against violation.

There is nothing that the United States wants for itself that any other nation has. We are
willing, on the contrary, to limit ourselves along with them to a prescribed course of duty
and respect for the rights of others which will check any selfish passion of our own, as it
will check any aggressive impulse of theirs.

If it should ever be our privilege to suggest or initiate a movement for peace among the nations
now at war, I am sure that the people of the United States would wish their Government to move
along these lines: First, such a settlement with regard to their own immediate interests as
the belligerents may agree upon. We have nothing material of any kind to ask for ourselves,
and are quite aware that we are in no sense or degree parties to the present quarrel. Our interest
is only in peace and its future guarantees. Second, an universal association of the nations
to maintain the inviolate security of the highway of the seas for the common and unhindered
use of all the nations of the world, and to prevent any war begun either contrary to treaty
covenants or without warning and full submission of the causes to the opinion of the world,--a
virtual guarantee of territorial integrity and political independence.

But I did not come here, let me repeat, to discuss a program. I came only to avow a creed and
give expression to the confidence I feel that the world is even now upon the eve of a great
consummation, when some common force will be brought into existence which shall safeguard right
as the first and most fundamental interest of all peoples and all governments, when coercion
shall be summoned not to the service of political ambition or selfish hostility, but to the
service of a common order, a common justice, and a common peace. God grant that the dawn of
that day of frank dealing and of settled peace, concord, and coöperation may be near at hand!

THE DEMANDS OF RAILWAY EMPLOYEES

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, August 29, 1916.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

I have come to you to seek your assistance in dealing with a very grave situation which has
arisen out of the demand of the employees of the railroads engaged in freight train service
that they be granted an eight-hour working day, safeguarded by payment for an hour and a half
of service for every hour of work beyond the eight.

The matter has been agitated for more than a year. The public has been made familiar with the
demands of the men and the arguments urged in favor of them, and even more familiar with the
objections of the railroads and their counter demand that certain privileges now enjoyed by
their men and certain bases of payment worked out through many years of contest be reconsidered,
especially in their relation to the adoption of an eight-hour day. The matter came some three
weeks ago to a final issue and resulted in a complete deadlock between the parties. The means
provided by law for the mediation of the controversy failed and the means of arbitration for
which the law provides were rejected. The representatives of the railway executives proposed
that the demands of the men be submitted in their entirety to arbitration, along with certain
questions of readjustment as to pay and conditions of employment which seemed to them to be
either closely associated with the demands or to call for reconsideration on their own merits;
the men absolutely declined arbitration, especially if any of their established privileges
were by that means to be drawn again in question. The law in the matter put no compulsion upon
them. The four hundred thousand men from whom the demands proceeded had voted to strike if
their demands were refused; the strike was imminent; it has since been set for the fourth of
September next. It affects the men who man the freight trains on practically every railway
in the country. The freight service throughout the United States must stand still until their
places are filled, if, indeed, it should prove possible to fill them at all. Cities will be
cut off from their food supplies, the whole commerce of the nation will be paralyzed, men of
every sort and occupation will be thrown out of employment, countless thousands will in all
likelihood be brought, it may be, to the very point of starvation, and a tragical national
calamity brought on, to be added to the other distresses of the time, because no basis of accommodation
or settlement has been found.

Just so soon as it became evident that mediation under the existing law had failed and that
arbitration had been rendered impossible by the attitude of the men, I considered it my duty
to confer with the representatives of both the railways and the brotherhoods, and myself offer
mediation, not as an arbitrator, but merely as spokesman of the nation, in the interest of
justice, indeed, and as a friend of both parties, but not as judge, only as the representative
of one hundred millions of men, women, and children who would pay the price, the incalculable
price, of loss and suffering should these few men insist upon approaching and concluding the
matters in controversy between them merely as employers and employees, rather than as patriotic
citizens of the United States looking before and after and accepting the larger responsibility
which the public would put upon them.

It seemed to me, in considering the subject-matter of the controversy, that the whole spirit
of the time and the preponderant evidence of recent economic experience spoke for the eight-hour
day. It has been adjudged by the thought and experience of recent years a thing upon which
society is justified in insisting as in the interest of health, efficiency, contentment, and
a general increase of economic vigor. The whole presumption of modern experience would, it
seemed to me, be in its favor, whether there was arbitration or not, and the debatable points
to settle were those which arose out of the acceptance of the eight-hour day rather than those
which affected its establishment. I, therefore, proposed that the eight-hour day be adopted
by the railway managements and put into practice for the present as a substitute for the existing
ten-hour basis of pay and service; that I should appoint, with the permission of the Congress,
a small commission to observe the results of the change, carefully studying the figures of
the altered operating costs, not only, but also the conditions of labor under which the men
worked and the operation of their existing agreements with the railroads, with instructions
to report the facts as they found them to the Congress at the earliest possible day, but without
recommendation; and that, after the facts had been thus disclosed, an adjustment should in
some orderly manner be sought of all the matters now left unadjusted between the railroad managers
and the men.

These proposals were exactly in line, it is interesting to note, with the position taken by
the Supreme Court of the United States when appealed to to protect certain litigants from the
financial losses which they confidently expected if they should submit to the regulation of
their charges and of their methods of service by public legislation. The Court has held that
it would not undertake to form a judgment upon forecasts, but could base its action only upon
actual experience; that it must be supplied with facts, not with calculations and opinions,
however scientifically attempted. To undertake to arbitrate the question of the adoption of
an eight-hour day in the light of results merely estimated and predicted would be to undertake
an enterprise of conjecture. No wise man could undertake it, or, if he did undertake it, could
feel assured of his conclusions.

I unhesitatingly offered the friendly services of the administration to the railway managers
to see to it that justice was done the railroads in the outcome. I felt warranted in assuring
them that no obstacle of law would be suffered to stand in the way of their increasing their
revenues to meet the expenses resulting from the change so far as the development of their
business and of their administrative efficiency did not prove adequate to meet them. The public
and the representatives of the public, I felt justified in assuring them, were disposed to
nothing but justice in such cases and were willing to serve those who served them.

The representatives of the brotherhoods accepted the plan; but the representatives of the railroads
declined to accept it. In the face of what I cannot but regard as the practical certainty that
they will be ultimately obliged to accept the eight-hour day by the concerted action of organized
labor, backed by the favorable judgment of society, the representatives of the railway management
have felt justified in declining a peaceful settlement which would engage all the forces of
justice, public and private, on their side to take care of the event. They fear the hostile
influence of shippers, who would be opposed to an increase of freight rates (for which, however,
of course, the public itself would pay); they apparently feel no confidence that the Interstate
Commerce Commission could withstand the objections that would be made. They do not care to
rely upon the friendly assurances of the Congress or the President. They have thought it best
that they should be forced to yield, if they must yield, not by counsel, but by the suffering
of the country. While my conferences with them were in progress, and when to all outward appearance
those conferences had come to a standstill, the representatives of the brotherhoods suddenly
acted and set the strike for the fourth of September.

The railway managers based their decision to reject my counsel in this matter upon their conviction
that they must at any cost to themselves or to the country stand firm for the principle of
arbitration which the men had rejected. I based my counsel upon the indisputable fact that
there was no means of obtaining arbitration. The law supplied none; earnest efforts at mediation
had failed to influence the men in the least. To stand firm for the principle of arbitration
and yet not get arbitration seemed to me futile, and something more than futile, because it
involved incalculable distress to the country and consequences in some respects worse than
those of war, and that in the midst of peace.

I yield to no man in firm adherence, alike of conviction and of purpose, to the principle of
arbitration in industrial disputes; but matters have come to a sudden crisis in this particular
dispute and the country had been caught unprovided with any practicable means of enforcing
that conviction in practice (by whose fault we will not now stop to inquire). A situation had
to be met whose elements and fixed conditions were indisputable. The practical and patriotic
course to pursue, as it seemed to me, was to secure immediate peace by conceding the one thing
in the demands of the men which society itself and any arbitrators who represented public sentiment
were most likely to approve, and immediately lay the foundations for securing arbitration with
regard to everything else involved. The event has confirmed that judgment.

I was seeking to compose the present in order to safeguard the future; for I wished an atmosphere
of peace and friendly coöperation in which to take counsel with the representatives of the
nation with regard to the best means for providing, so far as it might prove possible to provide,
against the recurrence of such unhappy situations in the future,--the best and most practicable
means of securing calm and fair arbitration of all industrial disputes in the days to come.
This is assuredly the best way of vindicating a principle, namely, having failed to make certain
of its observance in the present, to make certain of its observance in the future.

But I could only propose. I could not govern the will of others who took an entirely different
view of the circumstances of the case, who even refused to admit the circumstances to be what
they have turned out to be.

Having failed to bring the parties to this critical controversy to an accommodation, therefore,
I turn to you, deeming it clearly our duty as public servants to leave nothing undone that
we can do to safeguard the life and interests of the nation.

This last suggestion I make because we cannot in any circumstances suffer the nation to be
hampered in the essential matter of national defense. At the present moment circumstances render
this duty particularly obvious. Almost the entire military force of the nation is stationed
upon the Mexican border to guard our territory against hostile raids. It must be supplied,
and steadily supplied, with whatever it needs for its maintenance and efficiency. If it should
be necessary for purposes of national defense to transfer any portion of it upon short notice
to some other part of the country, for reasons now unforeseen, ample means of transportation
must be available, and available without delay. The power conferred in this matter should be
carefully and explicitly limited to cases of military necessity, but in all such cases it should
be clear and ample.

There is one other thing we should do if we are true champions of arbitration. We should make
all arbitral awards judgments by record of a court of law in order that their interpretation
and enforcement may lie, not with one of the parties to the arbitration, but with an impartial
and authoritative tribunal.

These things I urge upon you, not in haste or merely as a means of meeting a present emergency,
but as permanent and necessary additions to the law of the land, suggested, indeed, by circumstances
we had hoped never to see, but imperative as well as just, if such emergencies are to be prevented
in the future. I feel that no extended argument is needed to commend them to your favorable
consideration. They demonstrate themselves. The time and the occasion only give emphasis to
their importance. We need them now and we shall continue to need them.

SPEECH OF ACCEPTANCE

[On being offered the nomination for President by the Democratic Party. Delivered at Shadow
Lawn, Sea Girt, N.J., Saturday, September 2, 1916.]

SENATOR JAMES, GENTLEMEN OF THE NOTIFICATION COMMITTEE, FELLOW-CITIZENS:

I cannot accept the leadership and responsibility which the National Democratic Convention
has again, in such generous fashion, asked me to accept without first expressing my profound
gratitude to the party for the trust it reposes in me after four years of fiery trial in the
midst of affairs of unprecedented difficulty, and the keen sense of added responsibility with
which this honor fills (I had almost said burdens) me as I think of the great issues of national
life and policy involved in the present and immediate future conduct of our Government. I shall
seek, as I have always sought, to justify the extraordinary confidence thus reposed in me by
striving to purge my heart and purpose of every personal and of every misleading party motive
and devoting every energy I have to the service of the nation as a whole, praying that I may
continue to have the counsel and support of all forward-looking men at every turn of the difficult
business.

For I do not doubt that the people of the United States will wish the Democratic Party to continue
in control of the Government. They are not in the habit of rejecting those who have actually
served them for those who are making doubtful and conjectural promises of service. Least of
all are they likely to substitute those who promised to render them particular services and
proved false to that promise for those who have actually rendered those very services.

Boasting is always an empty business, which pleases nobody but the boaster, and I have no disposition
to boast of what the Democratic Party has accomplished. It has merely done its duty. It has
merely fulfilled its explicit promises. But there can be no violation of good taste in calling
attention to the manner in which those promises have been carried out or in adverting to the
interesting fact that many of the things accomplished were what the opposition party had again
and again promised to do but had left undone. Indeed that is manifestly part of the business
of this year of reckoning and assessment. There is no means of judging the future except by
assessing the past. Constructive action must be weighed against destructive comment and reaction.
The Democrats either have or have not understood the varied interests of the country. The test
is contained in the record.

What is that record? What were the Democrats called into power to do? What things had long
waited to be done, and how did the Democrats do them? It is a record of extraordinary length
and variety, rich in elements of many kinds, but consistent in principle throughout and susceptible
of brief recital.

The Republican Party was put out of power because of failure, practical failure and moral failure;
because it had served special interests and not the country at large; because, under the leadership
of its preferred and established guides, of those who still make its choices, it had lost touch
with the thoughts and the needs of the nation and was living in a past age and under a fixed
illusion, the illusion of greatness. It had framed tariff laws based upon a fear of foreign
trade, a fundamental doubt as to American skill, enterprise, and capacity, and a very tender
regard for the profitable privileges of those who had gained control of domestic markets and
domestic credits; and yet had enacted anti-trust laws which hampered the very things they meant
to foster, which were stiff and inelastic, and in part unintelligible. It had permitted the
country throughout the long period of its control to stagger from one financial crisis to another
under the operation of a national banking law of its own framing which made stringency and
panic certain and the control of the larger business operations of the country by the bankers
of a few reserve centers inevitable; had made as if it meant to reform the law but had faint-heartedly
failed in the attempt, because it could not bring itself to do the one thing necessary to make
the reform genuine and effectual, namely, break up the control of small groups of bankers.
It had been oblivious, or indifferent, to the fact that the farmers, upon whom the country
depends for its food and in the last analysis for its prosperity, were without standing in
the matter of commercial credit, without the protection of standards in their market transactions,
and without systematic knowledge of the markets themselves; that the laborers of the country,
the great army of men who man the industries it was professing to father and promote, carried
their labor as a mere commodity to market, were subject to restraint by novel and drastic process
in the courts, were without assurance of compensation for industrial accidents, without federal
assistance in accommodating labor disputes, and without national aid or advice in finding the
places and the industries in which their labor was most needed. The country had no national
system of road construction and development. Little intelligent attention was paid to the army,
and not enough to the navy. The other republics of America distrusted us, because they found
that we thought first of the profits of American investors and only as an afterthought of impartial
justice and helpful friendship. Its policy was provincial in all things; its purposes were
out of harmony with the temper and purpose of the people and the timely development of the
nation's interests.

So things stood when the Democratic Party came into power. How do they stand now? Alike in
the domestic field and in the wide field of the commerce of the world, American business and
life and industry have been set free to move as they never moved before.

The tariff has been revised, not on the principle of repelling foreign trade, but upon the
principle of encouraging it, upon something like a footing of equality with our own in respect
of the terms of competition, and a Tariff Board has been created whose function it will be
to keep the relations of American with foreign business and industry under constant observation,
for the guidance alike of our business men and of our Congress. American energies are now directed
towards the markets of the world.

The laws against trusts have been clarified by definition, with a view to making it plain that
they were not directed against big business but only against unfair business and the pretense
of competition where there was none; and a Trade Commission has been created with powers of
guidance and accommodation which have relieved business men of unfounded fears and set them
upon the road of hopeful and confident enterprise.

By the Federal Reserve Act the supply of currency at the disposal of active business has been
rendered elastic, taking its volume, not from a fixed body of investment securities, but from
the liquid assets of daily trade; and these assets are assessed and accepted, not by distant
groups of bankers in control of unavailable reserves, but by bankers at the many centers of
local exchange who are in touch with local conditions everywhere.

Effective measures have been taken for the re-creation of an American merchant marine and the
revival of the American carrying trade indispensable to our emancipation from the control which
foreigners have so long exercised over the opportunities, the routes, and the methods of our
commerce with other countries.

The Interstate Commerce Commission is about to be reorganized to enable it to perform its great
and important functions more promptly and more efficiently. We have created, extended and improved
the service of the parcels post.

So much we have done for business. What other party has understood the task so well or executed
it so intelligently and energetically? What other party has attempted it at all? The Republican
leaders, apparently, know of no means of assisting business but "protection." How to stimulate
it and put it upon a new footing of energy and enterprise they have not suggested.

For the farmers of the country we have virtually created commercial credit, by means of the
Federal Reserve Act and the Rural Credits Act. They now have the standing of other business
men in the money market. We have successfully regulated speculation in "futures" and established
standards in the marketing of grains. By an intelligent Warehouse Act we have assisted to make
the standard crops available as never before both for systematic marketing and as a security
for loans from the banks. We have greatly added to the work of neighborhood demonstration on
the farm itself of improved methods of cultivation, and, through the intelligent extension
of the functions of the Department of Agriculture, have made it possible for the farmer to
learn systematically where his best markets are and how to get at them.

The workingmen of America have been given a veritable emancipation, by the legal recognition
of a man's labor as part of his life, and not a mere marketable commodity; by exempting labor
organizations from processes of the courts which treated their members like fractional parts
of mobs and not like accessible and responsible individuals; by releasing our seamen from involuntary
servitude; by making adequate provision for compensation for industrial accidents; by providing
suitable machinery for mediation and conciliation in industrial disputes; and by putting the
Federal Department of Labor at the disposal of the workingman when in search of work.

We have effected the emancipation of the children of the country by releasing them from hurtful
labor. We have instituted a system of national aid in the building of highroads such as the
country has been feeling after for a century. We have sought to equalize taxation by means
of an equitable income tax. We have taken the steps that ought to have been taken at the outset
to open up the resources of Alaska. We have provided for national defense upon a scale never
before seriously proposed upon the responsibility of an entire political party. We have driven
the tariff lobby from cover and obliged it to substitute solid argument for private influence.

This extraordinary recital must sound like a platform, a list of sanguine promises; but it
is not. It is a record of promises made four years ago and now actually redeemed in constructive
legislation.

These things must profoundly disturb the thoughts and confound the plans of those who have
made themselves believe that the Democratic Party neither understood nor was ready to assist
the business of the country in the great enterprises which it is its evident and inevitable
destiny to undertake and carry through. The breaking up of the lobby must especially disconcert
them: for it was through the lobby that they sought and were sure they had found the heart
of things. The game of privilege can be played successfully by no other means.

This record must equally astonish those who feared that the Democratic Party had not opened
its heart to comprehend the demands of social justice. We have in four years come very near
to carrying out the platform of the Progressive Party as well as our own; for we also are progressives.

There is one circumstance connected with this program which ought to be very plainly stated.
It was resisted at every step by the interests which the Republican Party had catered to and
fostered at the expense of the country, and these same interests are now earnestly praying
for a reaction which will save their privileges,--for the restoration of their sworn friends
to power before it is too late to recover what they have lost. They fought with particular
desperation and infinite resourcefulness the reform of the banking and currency system, knowing
that to be the citadel of their control; and most anxiously are they hoping and planning for
the amendment of the Federal Reserve Act by the concentration of control in a single bank which
the old familiar group of bankers can keep under their eye and direction. But while the "big
men" who used to write the tariffs and command the assistance of the Treasury have been hostile,--all
but a few with vision,--the average business man knows that he has been delivered, and that
the fear that was once every day in his heart, that the men who controlled credit and directed
enterprise from the committee rooms of Congress would crush him, is there no more, and will
not return,--unless the party that consulted only the "big men" should return to power,--the
party of masterly inactivity and cunning resourcefulness in standing pat to resist change.

The Republican Party is just the party that cannot meet the new conditions of a new age. It
does not know the way and it does not wish new conditions. It tried to break away from the
old leaders and could not. They still select its candidates and dictate its policy, still resist
change, still hanker after the old conditions, still know no methods of encouraging business
but the old methods. When it changes its leaders and its purposes and brings its ideas up to
date it will have the right to ask the American people to give it power again; but not until
then. A new age, an age of revolutionary change, needs new purposes and new ideas.

In foreign affairs we have been guided by principles clearly conceived and consistently lived
up to. Perhaps they have not been fully comprehended because they have hitherto governed international
affairs only in theory, not in practice. They are simple, obvious, easily stated, and fundamental
to American ideals.

We have been neutral not only because it was the fixed and traditional policy of the United
States to stand aloof from the politics of Europe and because we had had no part either of
action or of policy in the influences which brought on the present war, but also because it
was manifestly our duty to prevent, if it were possible, the indefinite extension of the fires
of hate and desolation kindled by that terrible conflict and seek to serve mankind by reserving
cur strength and our resources for the anxious and difficult days of restoration and healing
which must follow, when peace will have to build its house anew.

The rights of our own citizens of course became involved: that was inevitable. Where they did
this was our guiding principle: that property rights can be vindicated by claims for damages
and no modern nation can decline to arbitrate such claims; but the fundamental rights of humanity
cannot be. The loss of life is irreparable. Neither can direct violations of a nation's sovereignty
await vindication in suits for damages. The nation that violates these essential rights must
expect to be checked and called to account by direct challenge and resistance. It at once makes
the quarrel in part our own. These are plain principles and we have never lost sight of them
or departed from them, whatever the stress or the perplexity of circumstance or the provocation
to hasty resentment. The record is clear and consistent throughout and stands distinct and
definite for anyone to judge who wishes to know the truth about it.

The seas were not broad enough to keep the infection of the conflict out of our own politics.
The passions and intrigues of certain active groups and combinations of men amongst us who
were born under foreign flags injected the poison of disloyalty into our own most critical
affairs, laid violent hands upon many of our industries, and subjected us to the shame of divisions
of sentiment and purpose in which America was contemned and forgotten. It is part of the business
of this year of reckoning and settlement to speak plainly and act with unmistakable purpose
in rebuke of these things, in order that they may be forever hereafter impossible. I am the
candidate of a party, but I am above all things else an American citizen. I neither seek the
favor nor fear the displeasure of that small alien element amongst us which puts loyalty to
any foreign power before loyalty to the United States.

While Europe was at war our own continent, one of our own neighbors, was shaken by revolution.
In that matter, too, principle was plain and it was imperative that we should live up to it
if we were to deserve the trust of any real partisan of the right as free men see it. We have
professed to believe, and we do believe, that the people of small and weak states have the
right to expect to be dealt with exactly as the people of big and powerful states would be.
We have acted upon that principle in dealing with the people of Mexico.

Our recent pursuit of bandits into Mexican territory was no violation of that principle. We
ventured to enter Mexican territory only because there were no military forces in Mexico that
could protect our border from hostile attack and our own people from violence, and we have
committed there no single act of hostility or interference even with the sovereign authority
of the Republic of Mexico herself. It was a plain case of the violation of our own sovereignty
which could not wait to be vindicated by damages and for which there was no other remedy. The
authorities of Mexico were powerless to prevent it.

Many serious wrongs against the property, many irreparable wrongs against the persons of Americans
have been committed within the territory of Mexico herself during this confused revolution,
wrongs which could not be effectually checked so long as there was no constituted power in
Mexico which was in a position to check them. We could not act directly in that matter ourselves
without denying Mexicans the right to any revolution at all which disturbed us and making the
emancipation of her own people await our own interest and convenience.

For it is their emancipation that they are seeking,--blindly, it may be, and as yet ineffectually,
but with profound and passionate purpose and within their unquestionable right, apply what
true American principle you will,--any principle that an American would publicly avow. The
people of Mexico have not been suffered to own their own country or direct their own institutions.
Outsiders, men out of other nations and with interests too often alien to their own, have dictated
what their privileges and opportunities should be and who should control their land, their
lives, and their resources,--some of them Americans, pressing for things they could never have
got in their own country. The Mexican people are entitled to attempt their liberty from such
influences; and so long as I have anything to do with the action of our great Government I
shall do everything in my power to prevent anyone standing in their way. I know that this is
hard for some persons to understand; but it is not hard for the plain people of the United
States to understand. It is hard doctrine only for those who wish to get something for themselves
out of Mexico. There are men, and noble women, too, not a few, of our own people, thank God!
whose fortunes are invested in great properties in Mexico who yet see the case with true vision
and assess its issues with true American feeling. The rest can be left for the present out
of the reckoning until this enslaved people has had its day of struggle towards the light.
I have heard no one who was free from such influences propose interference by the United States
with the internal affairs of Mexico. Certainly no friend of the Mexican people has proposed it.

The people of the United States are capable of great sympathies and a noble pity in dealing
with problems of this kind. As their spokesman and representative, I have tried to act in the
spirit they would wish me show. The people of Mexico are striving for the rights that are fundamental
to life and happiness,--15,000,000 oppressed men, overburdened women, and pitiful children
in virtual bondage in their own home of fertile lands and inexhaustible treasure! Some of the
leaders of the revolution may often have been mistaken and violent and selfish, but the revolution
itself was inevitable and is right. The unspeakable Huerta betrayed the very comrades he served,
traitorously overthrew the government of which he was a trusted part, impudently spoke for
the very forces that had driven his people to the rebellion with which he had pretended to
sympathize. The men who overcame him and drove him out represent at least the fierce passion
of reconstruction which lies at the very heart of liberty; and so long as they represent, however
imperfectly, such a struggle for deliverance, I am ready to serve their ends when I can. So
long as the power of recognition rests with me the Government of the United States will refuse
to extend the hand of welcome to any one who obtains power in a sister republic by treachery
and violence. No permanency can be given the affairs of any republic by a title based upon
intrigue and assassination. I declared that to be the policy of this Administration within
three weeks after I assumed the presidency. I here again vow it. I am more interested in the
fortunes of oppressed men and pitiful women and children than in any property rights whatever.
Mistakes I have no doubt made in this perplexing business, but not in purpose or object.

More is involved than the immediate destinies of Mexico and the relations of the United States
with a distressed and distracted people. All America looks on. Test is now being made of us
whether we be sincere lovers of popular liberty or not and are indeed to be trusted to respect
national sovereignty among our weaker neighbors. We have undertaken these many years to play
big brother to the republics of this hemisphere. This is the day of our test whether we mean,
or have ever meant, to play that part for our own benefit wholly or also for theirs. Upon the
outcome of that test (its outcome in their minds, not in ours) depends every relationship of
the United States with Latin America, whether in politics or in commerce and enterprise. These
are great issues and lie at the heart of the gravest tasks of the future, tasks both economic
and political and very intimately inwrought with many of the most vital of the new issues of
the politics of the world. The republics of America have in the last three years been drawing
together in a new spirit of accommodation, mutual understanding, and cordial coöperation. Much
of the politics of the world in the years to come will depend upon their relationships with
one another. It is a barren and provincial statesmanship that loses sight of such things!

The future, the immediate future, will bring us squarely face to face with many great and exacting
problems which will search us through and through whether we be able and ready to play the
part in the world that we mean to play. It will not bring us into their presence slowly, gently,
with ceremonious introduction, but suddenly and at once, the moment the war in Europe is over.
They will be new problems, most of them; many will be old problems in a new setting and with
new elements which we have never dealt with or reckoned the force and meaning of before. They
will require for their solution new thinking, fresh courage and resourcefulness, and in some
matters radical reconsiderations of policy. We must be ready to mobilize our resources alike
of brains and of materials.

It is not a future to be afraid of. It is, rather, a future to stimulate and excite us to the
display of the best powers that are in us. We may enter it with confidence when we are sure
that we understand it,--and we have provided ourselves already with the means of understanding it.

Look first at what it will be necessary that the nations of the world should do to make the
days to come tolerable and fit to live and work in; and then look at our part in what is to
follow and our own duty of preparation. For we must be prepared both in resources and in policy.

There must be a just and settled peace, and we here in America must contribute the full force
of our enthusiasm and of our authority as a nation to the organization of that peace upon world-wide
foundations that cannot easily be shaken. No nation should be forced to take sides in any quarrel
in which its own honor and integrity and the fortunes of its own people are not involved; but
no nation can any longer remain neutral as against any wilful disturbance of the peace of the
world. The effects of war can no longer be confined to the areas of battle. No nation stands
wholly apart in interest when the life and interests of all nations are thrown into confusion
and peril. If hopeful and generous enterprise is to be renewed, if the healing and helpful
arts of life are indeed to be revived when peace comes again, a new atmosphere of justice and
friendship must be generated by means the world has never tried before. The nations of the
world must unite in joint guarantees that whatever is done to disturb the whole world's life
must first be tested in the court of the whole world's opinion before it is attempted.

These are the new foundations the world must build for itself, and we must play our part in
the reconstruction, generously and without too much thought of our separate interests. We must
make ourselves ready to play it intelligently, vigorously, and well.

One of the contributions we must make to the world's peace is this: We must see to it that
the people in our insular possessions are treated in their own lands as we would treat them
here, and make the rule of the United States mean the same thing everywhere,--the same justice,
the same consideration for the essential rights of men.

Besides contributing our ungrudging moral and practical support to the establishment of peace
throughout the world we must actively and intelligently prepare ourselves to do our full service
in the trade and industry which are to sustain and develop the life of the nations in the days
to come.

We have already been provident in this great matter and supplied ourselves with the instrumentalities
of prompt adjustment. We have created, in the Federal Trade Commission, a means of inquiry
and of accommodation in the field of commerce which ought both to coördinate the enterprises
of our traders and manufacturers and to remove the barriers of misunderstanding and of a too
technical interpretation of the law. In the new Tariff Commission we have added another instrumentality
of observation and adjustment which promises to be immediately serviceable. The Trade Commission
substitutes counsel and accommodation for the harsher processes of legal restraint, and the
Tariff Commission ought to substitute facts for prejudices and theories. Our exporters have
for some time had the advantage of working in the new light thrown upon foreign markets and
opportunities of trade by the intelligent inquiries and activities of the Bureau of Foreign
and Domestic Commerce which the Democratic Congress so wisely created in 1912. The Tariff Commission
completes the machinery by which we shall be enabled to open up our legislative policy to the
facts as they develop.

We can no longer indulge our traditional provincialism. We are to play a leading part in the
world drama whether we wish it or not. We shall lend, not borrow; act for ourselves, not imitate
or follow; organize and initiate, not peep about merely to see where we may get in.

We have already formulated and agreed upon a policy of law which will explicitly remove the
ban now supposed to rest upon coöperation amongst our exporters in seeking and securing their
proper place in the markets of the world. The field will be free, the instrumentalities at
hand. It will only remain for the masters of enterprise amongst us to act in energetic concert,
and for the Government of the United States to insist upon the maintenance throughout the world
of those conditions of fairness and of even-handed justice in the commercial dealings of the
nations with one another upon which, after all, in the last analysis, the peace and ordered
life of the world must ultimately depend.

At home also we must see to it that the men who plan and develop and direct our business enterprises
shall enjoy definite and settled conditions of law, a policy accommodated to the freest progress.
We have set the just and necessary limits. We have put all kinds of unfair competition under
the ban and penalty of the law. We have barred monopoly. These fatal and ugly things being
excluded, we must now quicken action and facilitate enterprise by every just means within our
choice. There will be peace in the business world, and, with peace, revived confidence and life.

We ought both to husband and to develop our natural resources, our mines, our forests, our
water power. I wish we could have made more progress than we have made in this vital matter;
and I call once more, with the deepest earnestness and solicitude, upon the advocates of a
careful and provident conservation, on the one hand, and the advocates of a free and inviting
field for private capital, on the other, to get together in a spirit of genuine accommodation
and agreement and set this great policy forward at once.

We must hearten and quicken the spirit and efficiency of labor throughout our whole industrial
system by everywhere and in all occupations doing justice to the laborer, not only by paying
a living wage but also by making all the conditions that surround labor what they ought to
be. And we must do more than justice. We must safeguard life and promote health and safety
in every occupation in which they are threatened or imperilled. That is more than justice,
and better, because it is humanity and economy.

We must coördinate the railway systems of the country for national use, and must facilitate
and promote their development with a view to that coördination and to their better adaptation
as a whole to the life and trade and defense of the nation. The life and industry of the country
can be free and unhampered only if these arteries are open, efficient, and complete.

Thus shall we stand ready to meet the future as circumstance and international policy effect
their unfolding, whether the changes come slowly or come fast and without preface.

I have not spoken explicitly, Gentlemen, of the platform adopted at St. Louis; but it has been
implicit in all that I have said. I have sought to interpret its spirit and meaning. The people
of the United States do not need to be assured now that that platform is a definite pledge,
a practical program. We have proved to them that our promises are made to be kept.

We hold very definite ideals. We believe that the energy and initiative of our people have
been too narrowly coached and superintended; that they should be set free, as we have set them
free, to disperse themselves throughout the nation; that they should not be concentrated in
the hands of a few powerful guides and guardians, as our opponents have again and again, in
effect if not in purpose, sought to concentrate them. We believe, moreover,--who that looks
about him now with comprehending eye can fail to believe?--that the day of Little Americanism,
with its narrow horizons, when methods of "protection" and industrial nursing were the chief
study of our provincial statesmen, are past and gone and that a day of enterprise has at last
dawned for the United States whose field is the wide world.

We hope to see the stimulus of that new day draw all America, the republics of both continents,
on to a new life and energy and initiative in the great affairs of peace. We are Americans
for Big America, and rejoice to look forward to the days in which America shall strive to stir
the world without irritating it or drawing it on to new antagonisms, when the nations with
which we deal shall at last come to see upon what deep foundations of humanity and justice
our passion for peace rests, and when all mankind shall look upon our great people with a new
sentiment of admiration, friendly rivalry and real affection, as upon a people who, though
keen to succeed, seeks always to be at once generous and just and to whom humanity is dearer
than profit or selfish power.

Upon this record and in the faith of this purpose we go to the country.

LINCOLN'S BEGINNINGS

[Address delivered September 4, 1916, on the acceptance of a deed of gift to the Nation, by
the Lincoln Farm Association, of the Lincoln Birthplace Farm, at Hodgenville, Kentucky.]

No more significant memorial could have been presented to the nation than this. It expresses
so much of what is singular and noteworthy in the history of the country; it suggests so many
of the things that we prize most highly in our life and in our system of government. How eloquent
this little house within this shrine is of the vigor of democracy! There is nowhere in the
land any home so remote, so humble, that it may not contain the power of mind and heart and
conscience to which nations yield and history submits its processes. Nature pays no tribute
to aristocracy, subscribes to no creed of caste, renders fealty to no monarch or master of
any name or kind. Genius is no snob. It does not run after titles or seek by preference the
high circles of society. It affects humble company as well as great. It pays no special tribute
to universities or learned societies or conventional standards of greatness, but serenely chooses
its own comrades, its own haunts, its own cradle even, and its own life of adventure and of
training. Here is proof of it. This little hut was the cradle of one of the great sons of men,
a man of singular, delightful, vital genius who presently emerged upon the great stage of the
nation's history, gaunt, shy, ungainly, but dominant and majestic, a natural ruler of men,
himself inevitably the central figure of the great plot. No man can explain this, but every
man can see how it demonstrates the vigor of democracy, where every door is open, in every
hamlet and countryside, in city and wilderness alike, for the ruler to emerge when he will
and claim his leadership in the free life. Such are the authentic proofs of the validity and
vitality of democracy.

Here, no less, hides the mystery of democracy. Who shall guess this secret of nature and providence
and a free polity? Whatever the vigor and vitality of the stock from which he sprang, its mere
vigor and soundness do not explain where this man got his great heart that seemed to comprehend
all mankind in its catholic and benignant sympathy, the mind that sat enthroned behind those
brooding, melancholy eyes, whose vision swept many an horizon which those about him dreamed
not of,--that mind that comprehended what it had never seen, and understood the language of
affairs with the ready ease of one to the manner born,--or that nature which seemed in its
varied richness to be the familiar of men of every way of life. This is the sacred mystery
of democracy, that its richest fruits spring up out of soils which no man has prepared and
in circumstances amidst which they are the least expected. This is a place alike of mystery
and of reassurance.

It is likely that in a society ordered otherwise than our own Lincoln could not have found
himself or the path of fame and power upon which he walked serenely to his death. In this place
it is right that we should remind ourselves of the solid and striking facts upon which our
faith in democracy is founded. Many another man besides Lincoln has served the nation in its
highest places of counsel and of action whose origins were as humble as his. Though the greatest
example of the universal energy, richness, stimulation, and force of democracy, he is only
one example among many. The permeating and all-pervasive virtue of the freedom which challenges
us in America to make the most of every gift and power we possess every page of our history
serves to emphasize and illustrate. Standing here in this place, it seems almost the whole
of the stirring story.

Here Lincoln had his beginnings. Here the end and consummation of that great life seem remote
and a bit incredible. And yet there was no break anywhere between beginning and end, no lack
of natural sequence anywhere. Nothing really incredible happened. Lincoln was unaffectedly
as much at home in the White House as he was here. Do you share with me the feeling, I wonder,
that he was permanently at home nowhere? It seems to me that in the case of a man,--I would
rather say of a spirit,--like Lincoln the question where he was is of little significance,
that it is always what he was that really arrests our thought and takes hold of our imagination.
It is the spirit always that is sovereign. Lincoln, like the rest of us, was put through the
discipline of the world,--a very rough and exacting discipline for him, an indispensable discipline
for every man who would know what he is about in the midst of the world's affairs; but his
spirit got only its schooling there. It did not derive its character or its vision from the
experiences which brought it to its full revelation. The test of every American must always
be, not where he is, but what he is. That, also, is of the essence of democracy, and is the
moral of which this place is most gravely expressive.

We would like to think of men like Lincoln and Washington as typical Americans, but no man
can be typical who is so unusual as these great men were. It was typical of American life that
it should produce such men with supreme indifference as to the manner in which it produced
them, and as readily here in this hut as amidst the little circle of cultivated gentlemen to
whom Virginia owed so much in leadership and example. And Lincoln and Washington were typical
Americans in the use they made of their genius. But there will be few such men at best, and
we will not look into the mystery of how and why they come. We will only keep the door open
for them always, and a hearty welcome,--after we have recognized them.

I have read many biographies of Lincoln; I have sought out with the greatest interest the many
intimate stories that are told of him, the narratives of nearby friends, the sketches at close
quarters, in which those who had the privilege of being associated with him have tried to depict
for us the very man himself "in his habit as he lived;" but I have nowhere found a real intimate
of Lincoln's. I nowhere get the impression in any narrative or reminiscence that the writer
had in fact penetrated to the heart of his mystery, or that any man could penetrate to the
heart of it. That brooding spirit had no real familiars. I get the impression that it never
spoke out in complete self-revelation, and that it could not reveal itself completely to anyone.
It was a very lonely spirit that looked out from underneath those shaggy brows and comprehended
men without fully communing with them, as if, in spite of all its genial efforts at comradeship,
it dwelt apart, saw its visions of duty where no man looked on. There is a very holy and very
terrible isolation for the conscience of every man who seeks to read the destiny in affairs
for others as well as for himself, for a nation as well as for individuals. That privacy no
man can intrude upon. That lonely search of the spirit for the right perhaps no man can assist.
This strange child of the cabin kept company with invisible things, was born into no intimacy
but that of its own silently assembling and deploying thoughts.

I have come here to-day, not to utter a eulogy on Lincoln; he stands in need of none, but to
endeavor to interpret the meaning of this gift to the nation of the place of his birth and
origin. Is not this an altar upon which we may forever keep alive the vestal fire of democracy
as upon a shrine at which some of the deepest and most sacred hopes of mankind may from age
to age be rekindled? For these hopes must constantly be rekindled, and only those who live
can rekindle them. The only stuff that can retain the life-giving heat is the stuff of living
hearts. And the hopes of mankind cannot be kept alive by words merely, by constitutions and
doctrines of right and codes of liberty. The object of democracy is to transmute these into
the life and action of society, the self-denial and self-sacrifice of heroic men and women
willing to make their lives an embodiment of right and service and enlightened purpose. The
commands of democracy are as imperative as its privileges and opportunities are wide and generous.
Its compulsion is upon us. It will be great and lift a great light for the guidance of the
nations only if we are great and carry that light high for the guidance of our own feet. We
are not worthy to stand here unless we ourselves be in deed and in truth real democrats and
servants of mankind, ready to give our very lives for the freedom and justice and spiritual
exaltation of the great nation which shelters and nurtures us.

THE TRIUMPH OF WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE

[Address at the Suffrage Convention, Atlantic City, New Jersey, September 8, 1916.]

MADAM PRESIDENT, LADIES OF THE ASSOCIATION:

I have found it a real privilege to be here to-night and to listen to the addresses which you
have heard. Though you may not all of you believe it, I would a great deal rather hear somebody
else speak than speak myself; but I should feel that I was omitting a duty if I did not address
you to-night and say some of the things that have been in my thought as I realized the approach
of this evening and the duty that would fall upon me.

The astonishing thing about the movement which you represent is, not that it has grown so slowly,
but that it has grown so rapidly. No doubt for those who have been a long time in the struggle,
like your honored president, it seems a long and arduous path that has been trodden, but when
you think of the cumulating force of this movement in recent decades, you must agree with me
that it is one of the most astonishing tides in modern history. Two generations ago, no doubt
Madam President will agree with me in saying, it was a handful of women who were fighting this
cause. Now it is a great multitude of women who are fighting it.

And there are some interesting historical connections which I would like to attempt to point
out to you. One of the most striking facts about the history of the United States is that at
the outset it was a lawyers' history. Almost all of the questions to which America addressed
itself, say a hundred years ago, were legal questions, were questions of method, not questions
of what you were going to do with your Government, but questions of how you were going to constitute
your Government,--how you were going to balance the powers of the States and the Federal Government,
how you were going to balance the claims of property against the processes of liberty, how
you were going to make your governments up so as to balance the parts against each other so
that the legislature would check the executive, and the executive the legislature, and the
courts both of them put together. The whole conception of government when the United States
became a Nation was a mechanical conception of government, and the mechanical conception of
government which underlay it was the Newtonian theory of the universe. If you pick up the Federalist,
some parts of it read like a treatise on astronomy instead of a treatise on government. They
speak of the centrifugal and the centripetal forces, and locate the President somewhere in
a rotating system. The whole thing is a calculation of power and an adjustment of parts. There
was a time when nobody but a lawyer could know enough to run the Government of the United States,
and a distinguished English publicist once remarked, speaking of the complexity of the American
Government, that it was no proof of the excellence of the American Constitution that it had
been successfully operated, because the Americans could run any constitution. But there have
been a great many technical difficulties in running it.

And then something happened. A great question arose in this country which, though complicated
with legal elements, was at bottom a human question, and nothing but a question of humanity.
That was the slavery question. And is it not significant that it was then, and then for the
first time, that women became prominent in politics in America? Not many women; those prominent
in that day were so few that you can name them over in a brief catalogue, but, nevertheless,
they then began to play a part in writing, not only, but in public speech, which was a very
novel part for women to play in America. After the Civil War had settled some of what seemed
to be the most difficult legal questions of our system, the life of the Nation began not only
to unfold, but to accumulate. Life in the United States was a comparatively simple matter at
the time of the Civil War. There was none of that underground struggle which is now so manifest
to those who look only a little way beneath the surface. Stories such as Dr. Davis has told
to-night were uncommon in those simpler days. The pressure of low wages, the agony of obscure
and unremunerated toil, did not exist in America in anything like the same proportions that
they exist now. And as our life has unfolded and accumulated, as the contacts of it have become
hot, as the populations have assembled in the cities, and the cool spaces of the country have
been supplanted by the feverish urban areas, the whole nature of our political questions has
been altered. They have ceased to be legal questions. They have more and more become social
questions, questions with regard to the relations of human beings to one another,--not merely
their legal relations, but their moral and spiritual relations to one another. This has been
most characteristic of American life in the last few decades, and as these questions have assumed
greater and greater prominence, the movement which this association represents has gathered
cumulative force. So that, if anybody asks himself, "What does this gathering force mean,"
if he knows anything about the history of the country, he knows that it means something that
has not only come to stay, but has come with conquering power.

I get a little impatient sometimes about the discussion of the channels and methods by which
it is to prevail. It is going to prevail, and that is a very superficial and ignorant view
of it which attributes it to mere social unrest. It is not merely because the women are discontented.
It is because the women have seen visions of duty, and that is something which we not only
cannot resist, but, if we be true Americans, we do not wish to resist. America took its origin
in visions of the human spirit, in aspirations for the deepest sort of liberty of the mind
and of the heart, and as visions of that sort come up to the sight of those who are spiritually
minded in America, America comes more and more into her birthright and into the perfection
of her development.

So that what we have to realize in dealing with forces of this sort is that we are dealing
with the substance of life itself. I have felt as I sat here to-night the wholesome contagion
of the occasion. Almost every other time that I ever visited Atlantic City, I came to fight
somebody. I hardly know how to conduct myself when I have not come to fight against anybody,
but with somebody. I have come to suggest, among other things, that when the forces of nature
are steadily working and the tide is rising to meet the moon, you need not be afraid that it
will not come to its flood. We feel the tide; we rejoice in the strength of it; and we shall
not quarrel in the long run as to the method of it. Because, when you are working with masses
of men and organized bodies of opinion, you have got to carry the organized body along. The
whole art and practice of government consists not in moving individuals, but in moving masses.
It is all very well to run ahead and beckon, but, after all, you have got to wait for the body
to follow. I have not come to ask you to be patient, because you have been, but I have come
to congratulate you that there was a force behind you that will beyond any peradventure be
triumphant, and for which you can afford a little while to wait.

THE TERMS OF PEACE

[Address to the Senate of the United States, delivered January 22, 1917.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE SENATE:

On the eighteenth of December last I addressed an identic note to the governments of the nations
now at war requesting them to state, more definitely than they had yet been stated by either
group of belligerents, the terms upon which they would deem it possible to make peace. I spoke
on behalf of humanity and of the rights of all neutral nations like our own, many of whose
most vital interests the war puts in constant jeopardy. The Central Powers united in a reply
which stated merely that they were ready to meet their antagonists in conference to discuss
terms of peace. The Entente Powers have replied much more definitely and have stated, in general
terms, indeed, but with sufficient definiteness to imply details, the arrangements, guarantees,
and acts of reparation which they deem to be the indispensable conditions of a satisfactory
settlement. We are that much nearer a definite discussion of the peace which shall end the
present war. We are that much nearer the discussion of the international concert which must
thereafter hold the world at peace. In every discussion of the peace that must end this war
it is taken for granted that that peace must be followed by some definite concert of power
which will make it virtually impossible that any such catastrophe should ever overwhelm us
again. Every lover of mankind, every sane and thoughtful man must take that for granted.

I have sought this opportunity to address you because I thought that I owed it to you, as the
council associated with me in the final determination of our international obligations, to
disclose to you without reserve the thought and purpose that have been taking form in my mind
in regard to the duty of our Government in the days to come when it will be necessary to lay
afresh and upon a new plan the foundations of peace among the nations.

It is inconceivable that the people of the United States should play no part in that great
enterprise. To take part in such a service will be the opportunity for which they have sought
to prepare themselves by the very principles and purposes of their polity and the approved
practices of their Government ever since the days when they set up a new nation in the high
and honorable hope that it might in all that it was and did show mankind the way to liberty.
They cannot in honor withhold the service to which they are now about to be challenged. They
do not wish to withhold it. But they owe it to themselves and to the other nations of the world
to state the conditions under which they will feel free to render it.

That service is nothing less than this, to add their authority and their power to the authority
and force of other nations to guarantee peace and justice throughout the world. Such a settlement
cannot now be long postponed. It is right that before it comes this Government should frankly
formulate the conditions upon which it would feel justified in asking our people to approve
its formal and solemn adherence to a League for Peace. I am here to attempt to state those
conditions.

The present war must first be ended; but we owe it to candor and to a just regard for the opinion
of mankind to say that, so far as our participation in guarantees of future peace is concerned,
it makes a great deal of difference in what way and upon what terms it is ended. The treaties
and agreements which bring it to an end must embody terms which will create a peace that is
worth guaranteeing and preserving, a peace that will win the approval of mankind, not merely
a peace that will serve the several interests and immediate aims of the nations engaged. We
shall have no voice in determining what those terms shall be, but we shall, I feel sure, have
a voice in determining whether they shall be made lasting or not by the guarantees of a universal
covenant; and our judgment upon what is fundamental and essential as a condition precedent
to permanency should be spoken now, not afterwards when it may be too late.

No covenant of coöperative peace that does not include the peoples of the New World can suffice
to keep the future safe against war; and yet there is only one sort of peace that the peoples
of America could join in guaranteeing. The elements of that peace must be elements that engage
the confidence and satisfy the principles of the American governments, elements consistent
with their political faith and with the practical convictions which the peoples of America
have once for all embraced and undertaken to defend.

I do not mean to say that any American government would throw any obstacle in the way of any
terms of peace the governments now at war might agree upon, or seek to upset them when made,
whatever they might be. I only take it for granted that mere terms of peace between the belligerents
will not satisfy even the belligerents themselves. Mere agreements may not make peace secure.
It will be absolutely necessary that a force be created as a guarantor of the permanency of
the settlement so much greater than the force of any nation now engaged or any alliance hitherto
formed or projected that no nation, no probable combination of nations could face or withstand
it. If the peace presently to be made is to endure, it must be a peace made secure by the organized
major force of mankind.

The terms of the immediate peace agreed upon will determine whether it is a peace for which
such a guarantee can be secured. The question upon which the whole future peace and policy
of the world depends is this: Is the present war a struggle for a just and secure peace, or
only for a new balance of power? If it be only a struggle for a new balance of power, who will
guarantee, who can guarantee, the stable equilibrium of the new arrangement? Only a tranquil
Europe can be a stable Europe. There must be, not a balance of power, but a community of power;
not organized rivalries, but an organized common peace.

Fortunately we have received very explicit assurances on this point. The statesmen of both
of the groups of nations now arrayed against one another have said, in terms that could not
be misinterpreted, that it was no part of the purpose they had in mind to crush their antagonists.
But the implications of these assurances may not be equally clear to all,--may not be the same
on both sides of the water. I think it will be serviceable if I attempt to set forth what we
understand them to be.

They imply, first of all, that it must be a peace without victory. It is not pleasant to say
this. I beg that I may be permitted to put my own interpretation upon it and that it may be
understood that no other interpretation was in my thought. I am seeking only to face realities
and to face them without soft concealments. Victory would mean peace forced upon the loser,
a victor's terms imposed upon the vanquished. It would be accepted in humiliation, under duress,
at an intolerable sacrifice, and would leave a sting, a resentment, a bitter memory upon which
terms of peace would rest, not permanently, but only as upon quicksand. Only a peace between
equals can last. Only a peace the very principle of which is equality and a common participation
in a common benefit. The right state of mind, the right feeling between nations, is as necessary
for a lasting peace as is the just settlement of vexed questions of territory or of racial
and national allegiance.

The equality of nations upon which peace must be founded if it is to last must be an equality
of rights; the guarantees exchanged must neither recognize nor imply a difference between big
nations and small, between those that are powerful and those that are weak. Right must be based
upon the common strength, not upon the individual strength, of the nations upon whose concert
peace will depend. Equality of territory or of resources there of course cannot be; nor any
other sort of equality not gained in the ordinary peaceful and legitimate development of the
peoples themselves. But no one asks or expects anything more than an equality of rights. Mankind
is looking now for freedom of life, not for equipoises of power.

And there is a deeper thing involved than even equality of right among organized nations. No
peace can last, or ought to last, which does not recognize and accept the principle that governments
derive all their just powers from the consent of the governed, and that no right anywhere exists
to hand peoples about from sovereignty to sovereignty as if they were property. I take it for
granted, for instance, if I may venture upon a single example, that statesmen everywhere are
agreed that there should be a united, independent, and autonomous Poland, and that henceforth
inviolable security of life, of worship, and of industrial and social development should be
guaranteed to all peoples who have lived hitherto under the power of governments devoted to
a faith and purpose hostile to their own.

I speak of this, not because of any desire to exalt an abstract political principle which has
always been held very dear by those who have sought to build up liberty in America, but for
the same reason that I have spoken of the other conditions of peace which seem to me clearly
indispensable,--because I wish frankly to uncover realities. Any peace which does not recognize
and accept this principle will inevitably be upset. It will not rest upon the affections or
the convictions of mankind. The ferment of spirit of whole populations will fight subtly and
constantly against it, and all the world will sympathize. The world can be at peace only if
its life is stable, and there can be no stability where the will is in rebellion, where there
is not tranquillity of spirit and a sense of justice, of freedom, and of right.

So far as practicable, moreover, every great people now struggling towards a full development
of its resources and of its powers should be assured a direct outlet to the great highways
of the sea. Where this cannot be done by the cession of territory, it can no doubt be done
by the neutralization of direct rights of way under the general guarantee which will assure
the peace itself. With a right comity of arrangement no nation need be shut away from free
access to the open paths of the world's commerce.

And the paths of the sea must alike in law and in fact be free. The freedom of the seas is
the sine qua non of peace, equality, and coöperation. No doubt a somewhat radical reconsideration
of many of the rules of international practice hitherto thought to be established may be necessary
in order to make the seas indeed free and common in practically all circumstances for the use
of mankind, but the motive for such changes is convincing and compelling. There can be no trust
or intimacy between the peoples of the world without them. The free, constant, unthreatened
intercourse of nations is an essential part of the process of peace and of development. It
need not be difficult either to define or to secure the freedom of the seas if the governments
of the world sincerely desire to come to an agreement concerning it.

It is a problem closely connected with the limitation of naval armaments and the coöperation
of the navies of the world in keeping the seas at once free and safe. And the question of limiting
naval armaments opens the wider and perhaps more difficult question of the limitation of armies
and of all programs of military preparation. Difficult and delicate as these questions are,
they must be faced with the utmost candor and decided in a spirit of real accommodation if
peace is to come with healing in its wings, and come to stay. Peace cannot be had without concession
and sacrifice. There can be no sense of safety and equality among the nations if great preponderating
armaments are henceforth to continue here and there to be built up and maintained. The statesmen
of the world must plan for peace and nations must adjust and accommodate their policy to it
as they have planned for war and made ready for pitiless contest and rivalry. The question
of armaments, whether on land or sea, is the most immediately and intensely practical question
connected with the future fortunes of nations and of mankind.

I have spoken upon these great matters without reserve and with the utmost explicitness because
it has seemed to me to be necessary if the world's yearning desire for peace was anywhere to
find free voice and utterance. Perhaps I am the only person in high authority amongst all the
peoples of the world who is at liberty to speak and hold nothing back. I am speaking as an
individual, and yet I am speaking also, of course, as the responsible head of a great government,
and I feel confident that I have said what the people of the United States would wish me to
say. May I not add that I hope and believe that I am in effect speaking for liberals and friends
of humanity in every nation and of every program of liberty? I would fain believe that I am
speaking for the silent mass of mankind everywhere who have as yet had no place or opportunity
to speak their real hearts out concerning the death and ruin they see to have come already
upon the persons and the homes they hold most dear.

And in holding out the expectation that the people and Government of the United States will
join the other civilized nations of the world in guaranteeing the permanence of peace upon
such terms as I have named I speak with the greater boldness and confidence because it is clear
to every man who can think that there is in this promise no breach in either our traditions
or our policy as a nation, but a fulfilment, rather, of all that we have professed or striven for.

I am proposing, as it were, that the nations should with one accord adopt the doctrine of President
Monroe as the doctrine of the world: that no nation should seek to extend its polity over any
other nation or people, but that every people should be left free to determine its own polity,
its own way of development, unhindered, unthreatened, unafraid, the little along with the great
and powerful.

I am proposing that all nations henceforth avoid entangling alliances which would draw them
into competitions of power, catch them in a net of intrigue and selfish rivalry, and disturb
their own affairs with influences intruded from without. There is no entangling alliance in
a concert of power. When all unite to act in the same sense and with the same purpose all act
in the common interest and are free to live their own lives under a common protection.

I am proposing government by the consent of the governed; that freedom of the seas which in
international conference after conference representatives of the United States have urged with
the eloquence of those who are the convinced disciples of liberty; and that moderation of armaments
which makes of armies and navies a power for order merely, not an instrument of aggression
or of selfish violence.

These are American principles, American policies. We could stand for no others. And they are
also the principles and policies of forward looking men and women everywhere, of every modern
nation, of every enlightened community. They are the principles of mankind and must prevail.

MEETING GERMANY'S CHALLENGE

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, February 3, 1917.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

The Imperial German Government on the thirty-first of January announced to this Government
and to the governments of the other neutral nations that on and after the first day of February,
the present month, it would adopt a policy with regard to the use of submarines against all
shipping seeking to pass through certain designated areas of the high seas to which it is clearly
my duty to call your attention.

In reply to this declaration the Imperial German Government gave this Government the following
assurance:

"The German Government is prepared to do its utmost to confine the operations of war for the
rest of its duration to the fighting forces of the belligerents, thereby also insuring the
freedom of the seas, a principle upon which the German Government believes, now as before,
to be in agreement with the Government of the United States.

"The German Government, guided by this idea, notifies the Government of the United States that
the German naval forces have received the following orders: In accordance with the general
principles of visit and search and destruction of merchant vessels recognized by international
law, such vessels, both within and without the area declared as naval war zone, shall not be
sunk without warning and without saving human lives, unless these ships attempt to escape or
offer resistance.

"But," it added, "neutrals cannot expect that Germany, forced to fight for her existence, shall,
for the sake of neutral interest, restrict the use of an effective weapon if her enemy is permitted
to continue to apply at will methods of warfare violating the rules of international law. Such
a demand would be incompatible with the character of neutrality, and the German Government
is convinced that the Government of the United States does not think of making such a demand,
knowing that the Government of the United States has repeatedly declared that it is determined
to restore the principle of the freedom of the seas, from whatever quarter it has been violated."

To this the Government of the United States replied on the eighth of May, accepting, of course,
the assurances given, but adding,

"The Government of the United States feels it necessary to state that it takes it for granted
that the Imperial German Government does not intend to imply that the maintenance of its newly
announced policy is in any way contingent upon the course or result of diplomatic negotiations
between the Government of the United States and any other belligerent Government, notwithstanding
the fact that certain passages in the Imperial Government's note of the fourth instant might
appear to be susceptible of that construction. In order, however, to avoid any possible misunderstanding,
the Government of the United States notifies the Imperial Government that it cannot for a moment
entertain, much less discuss, a suggestion that respect by German naval authorities for the
rights of citizens of the United States upon the high seas should in any way or in the slightest
degree be made contingent upon the conduct of any other Government affecting the rights of
neutrals and non-combatants. Responsibility in such matters is single, not joint; absolute,
not relative."

To this note of the eighth of May the Imperial German Government made no reply.

On the thirty-first of January, the Wednesday of the present week, the German Ambassador handed
to the Secretary of State, along with a formal note, a memorandum which contains the following
statement:

"The Imperial Government, therefore, does not doubt that the Government of the United States
will understand the situation thus forced upon Germany by the Entente-Allies' brutal methods
of war and by their determination to destroy the Central Powers, and that the Government of
the United States will further realize that the now openly disclosed intentions of the Entente-Allies
give back to Germany the freedom of action which she reserved in her note addressed to the
Government of the United States on May 4, 1916.

"Under these circumstances Germany will meet the illegal measures of her enemies by forcibly
preventing after February 1, 1917, in a zone around Great Britain, France, Italy, and in the
Eastern Mediterranean all navigation, that of neutrals included, from and to England and from
and to France, etc., etc. All ships met within the zone will be sunk."

I think that you will agree with me that, in view of this declaration, which suddenly and without
prior intimation of any kind deliberately withdraws the solemn assurance given in the Imperial
Government's note of the fourth of May, 1916, this Government has no alternative consistent
with the dignity and honor of the United States but to take the course which, in its note of
the eighteenth of April, 1916, it announced that it would take in the event that the German
Government did not declare and effect an abandonment of the methods of submarine warfare which
it was then employing and to which it now purposes again to resort.

I have, therefore, directed the Secretary of State to announce to His Excellency the German
Ambassador that all diplomatic relations between the United States and the German Empire are
severed, and that the American Ambassador at Berlin will immediately be withdrawn; and, in
accordance with this decision, to hand to His Excellency his passports.

Notwithstanding this unexpected action of the German Government, this sudden and deeply deplorable
renunciation of its assurances, given this Government at one of the most critical moments of
tension in the relations of the two governments, I refuse to believe that it is the intention
of the German authorities to do in fact what they have warned us they will feel at liberty
to do. I cannot bring myself to believe that they will indeed pay no regard to the ancient
friendship between their people and our own or to the solemn obligations which have been exchanged
between them and destroy American ships and take the lives of American citizens in the willful
prosecution of the ruthless naval program they have announced their intention to adopt. Only
actual overt acts on their part can make me believe it even now.

If this inveterate confidence on my part in the sobriety and prudent foresight of their purpose
should unhappily prove unfounded; if American ships and American lives should in fact be sacrificed
by their naval commanders in heedless contravention of the just and reasonable understandings
of international law and the obvious dictates of humanity, I shall take the liberty of coming
again before the Congress, to ask that authority be given me to use any means that may be necessary
for the protection of our seamen and our people in the prosecution of their peaceful and legitimate
errands on the high seas. I can do nothing less. I take it for granted that all neutral governments
will take the same course.

We do not desire any hostile conflict with the Imperial German Government. We are the sincere
friends of the German people and earnestly desire to remain at peace with the Government which
speaks for them. We shall not believe that they are hostile to us unless and until we are obliged
to believe it; and we purpose nothing more than the reasonable defense of the undoubted rights
of our people. We wish to serve no selfish ends. We seek merely to stand true alike in thought
and in action to the immemorial principles of our people which I sought to express in my address
to the Senate only two weeks ago,--seek merely to vindicate our right to liberty and justice
and an unmolested life. These are the bases of peace, not war. God grant we may not be challenged
to defend them by acts of wilful injustice on the part of the Government of Germany!

REQUEST FOR AUTHORITY

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, February 26, 1917.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

I have again asked the privilege of addressing you because we are moving through critical times
during which it seems to me to be my duty to keep in close touch with the Houses of Congress,
so that neither counsel nor action shall run at cross purposes between us.

On the third of February I officially informed you of the sudden and unexpected action of the
Imperial German Government in declaring its intention to disregard the promises it had made
to this Government in April last and undertake immediate submarine operations against all commerce,
whether of belligerents or of neutrals, that should seek to approach Great Britain and Ireland,
the Atlantic coasts of Europe, or the harbors of the eastern Mediterranean, and to conduct
those operations without regard to the established restrictions of international practice,
without regard to any considerations of humanity even which might interfere with their object.
That policy was forthwith put into practice. It has now been in active execution for nearly
four weeks.

Its practical results are not yet fully disclosed. The commerce of other neutral nations is
suffering severely, but not, perhaps, very much more severely than it was already suffering
before the first of February, when the new policy of the Imperial Government was put into operation.
We have asked the coöperation of the other neutral governments to prevent these depredations,
but so far none of them has thought it wise to join us in any common course of action. Our
own commerce has suffered, is suffering, rather in apprehension than in fact, rather because
so many of our ships are timidly keeping to their home ports than because American ships have
been sunk.

Two American vessels have been sunk, the Housatonic and the Lyman M. Law. The case of the Housatonic,
which was carrying food-stuffs consigned to a London firm, was essentially like the case of
the Fry, in which, it will be recalled, the German Government admitted its liability for damages,
and the lives of the crew, as in the case of the Fry, were safeguarded with reasonable care.
The case of the Law, which was carrying lemon-box staves to Palermo, disclosed a ruthlessness
of method which deserves grave condemnation, but was accompanied by no circumstances which
might not have been expected at any time in connection with the use of the submarine against
merchantmen as the German Government has used it.

In sum, therefore, the situation we find ourselves in with regard to the actual conduct of
the German submarine warfare against commerce and its effects upon our own ships and people
is substantially the same that it was when I addressed you on the third of February, except
for the tying up of our shipping in our own ports because of the unwillingness of our shipowners
to risk their vessels at sea without insurance or adequate protection, and the very serious
congestion of our commerce which has resulted, a congestion which is growing rapidly more and
more serious every day. This in itself might presently accomplish, in effect, what the new
German submarine orders were meant to accomplish, so far as we are concerned. We can only say,
therefore, that the overt act which I have ventured to hope the German commanders would in
fact avoid has not occurred.

But, while this is happily true, it must be admitted that there have been certain additional
indications and expressions of purpose on the part of the German press and the German authorities
which have increased rather than lessened the impression that, if our ships and our people
are spared, it will be because of fortunate circumstances or because the commanders of the
German submarines which they may happen to encounter exercise an unexpected discretion and
restraint rather than because of the instructions under which those commanders are acting.
It would be foolish to deny that the situation is fraught with the gravest possibilities and
dangers. No thoughtful man can fail to see that the necessity for definite action may come
at any time, if we are in fact, and not in word merely, to defend our elementary rights as
a neutral nation. It would be most imprudent to be unprepared.

I cannot in such circumstances be unmindful of the fact that the expiration of the term of
the present Congress is immediately at hand, by constitutional limitation; and that it would
in all likelihood require an unusual length of time to assemble and organize the Congress which
is to succeed it. I feel that I ought, in view of that fact, to obtain from you full and immediate
assurance of the authority which I may need at any moment to exercise. No doubt I already possess
that authority without special warrant of law, by the plain implication of my constitutional
duties and powers; but I prefer, in the present circumstances, not to act upon general implication.
I wish to feel that the authority and the power of the Congress are behind me in whatever it
may become necessary for me to do. We are jointly the servants of the people and must act together
and in their spirit, so far as we can divine and interpret it.

No one doubts what it is our duty to do. We must defend our commerce and the lives of our people
in the midst of the present trying circumstances, with discretion but with clear and steadfast
purpose. Only the method and the extent remain to be chosen, upon the occasion, if occasion
should indeed arise. Since it has unhappily proved impossible to safeguard our neutral rights
by diplomatic means against the unwarranted infringements they are suffering at the hands of
Germany, there may be no recourse but to armed neutrality, which we shall know how to maintain
and for which there is abundant American precedent.

It is devoutly to be hoped that it will not be necessary to put armed force anywhere into action.
The American people do not desire it, and our desire is not different from theirs. I am sure
that they will understand the spirit in which I am now acting, the purpose I hold nearest my
heart and would wish to exhibit in everything I do. I am anxious that the people of the nations
at war also should understand and not mistrust us. I hope that I need give no further proofs
and assurances than I have already given throughout nearly three years of anxious patience
that I am the friend of peace and mean to preserve it for America so long as I am able. I am
not now proposing or contemplating war or any steps that need lead to it. I merely request
that you will accord me by your own vote and definite bestowal the means and the authority
to safeguard in practice the right of a great people who are at peace and who are desirous
of exercising none but the rights of peace to follow the pursuits of peace in quietness and
good will,--rights recognized time out of mind by all the civilized nations of the world. No
course of my choosing or of theirs will lead to war. War can come only by the wilful acts and
aggressions of others.

You will understand why I can make no definite proposals or forecasts of action now and must
ask for your supporting authority in the most general terms. The form in which action may become
necessary cannot yet be foreseen. I believe that the people will be willing to trust me to
act with restraint, with prudence, and in the true spirit of amity and good faith that they
have themselves displayed throughout these trying months; and it is in that belief that I request
that you will authorize me to supply our merchant ships with defensive arms, should that become
necessary, and with the means of using them, and to employ any other instrumentalities or methods
that may be necessary and adequate to protect our ships and our people in their legitimate
and peaceful pursuits on the seas. I request also that you will grant me at the same time,
along with the powers I ask, a sufficient credit to enable me to provide adequate means of
protection where they are lacking, including adequate insurance against the present war risks.

I have spoken of our commerce and of the legitimate errands of our people on the seas, but
you will not be misled as to my main thought, the thought that lies beneath these phrases and
gives them dignity and weight. It is not of material interests merely that we are thinking.
It is, rather, of fundamental human rights, chief of all the right of life itself. I am thinking,
not only of the rights of Americans to go and come about their proper business by way of the
sea, but also of something much deeper, much more fundamental than that. I am thinking of those
rights of humanity without which there is no civilization. My theme is of those great principles
of compassion and of protection which mankind has sought to throw about human lives, the lives
of non-combatants, the lives of men who are peacefully at work keeping the industrial processes
of the world quick and vital, the lives of women and children and of those who supply the labor
which ministers to their sustenance. We are speaking of no selfish material rights but of rights
which our hearts support and whose foundation is that righteous passion for justice upon which
all law, all structures alike of family, of state, and of mankind must rest, as upon the ultimate
base of our existence and our liberty. I cannot imagine any man with American principles at
his heart hesitating to defend these things.

SECOND INAUGURAL ADDRESS

[Washington, March 4, 1917.]

MY FELLOW-CITIZENS:

The four years which have elapsed since last I stood in this place have been crowded with counsel
and action of the most vital interest and consequence. Perhaps no equal period in our history
has been so fruitful of important reforms in our economic and industrial life or so full of
significant changes in the spirit and purpose of our political action. We have sought very
thoughtfully to set our house in order, correct the grosser errors and abuses of our industrial
life, liberate and quicken the processes of our national genius and energy, and lift our politics
to a broader view of the people's essential interests. It is a record of singular variety and
singular distinction. But I shall not attempt to review it. It speaks for itself and will be
of increasing influence as the years go by. This is not the time for retrospect. It is time,
rather, to speak our thoughts and purposes concerning the present and the immediate future.

Although we have centered counsel and action with such unusual concentration and success upon
the great problems of domestic legislation to which we addressed ourselves four years ago,
other matters have more and more forced themselves upon our attention, matters lying outside
our own life as a nation and over which we had no control, but which, despite our wish to keep
free of them, have drawn us more and more irresistibly into their own current and influence.

It has been impossible to avoid them. They have affected the life of the whole world. They
have shaken men everywhere with a passion and an apprehension they never knew before. It has
been hard to preserve calm counsel while the thought of our own people swayed this way and
that under their influence. We are a composite and cosmopolitan people. We are of the blood
of all the nations that are at war. The currents of our thoughts as well as the currents of
our trade run quick at all seasons back and forth between us and them. The war inevitably set
its mark from the first alike upon our minds, our industries, our commerce, our politics, and
our social action. To be indifferent to it or independent of it was out of the question.

And yet all the while we have been conscious that we were not part of it. In that consciousness,
despite many divisions, we have drawn closer together. We have been deeply wronged upon the
seas, but we have not wished to wrong or injure in return; have retained throughout the consciousness
of standing in some sort apart, intent upon an interest that transcended the immediate issues
of the war itself. As some of the injuries done us have become intolerable we have still been
clear that we wished nothing for ourselves that we were not ready to demand for all mankind,--fair
dealing, justice, the freedom to live and be at ease against organized wrong.

It is in this spirit and with this thought that we have grown more and more aware, more and
more certain that the part we wished to play was the part of those who mean to vindicate and
fortify peace. We have been obliged to arm ourselves to make good our claim to a certain minimum
of right and of freedom of action. We stand firm in armed neutrality since it seems that in
no other way we can demonstrate what it is we insist upon and cannot forego. We may even be
drawn on, by circumstances, not by our own purpose or desire, to a more active assertion of
our rights as we see them and a more immediate association with the great struggle itself.
But nothing will alter our thought or our purpose. They are too clear to be obscured. They
are too deeply rooted in the principles of our national life to be altered. We desire neither
conquest nor advantage. We wish nothing that can be had only at the cost of another people.
We have always professed unselfish purpose and we covet the opportunity to prove that our professions
are sincere.

There are many things still to do at home, to clarify our own politics and give new vitality
to the industrial processes of our own life, and we shall do them as time and opportunity serve;
but we realize that the greatest things that remain to be done must be done with the whole
world for stage and in coöperation with the wide, and universal forces of mankind, and we are
making our spirits ready for those things. They will follow in the immediate wake of the war
itself and will set civilization up again. We are provincials no longer. The tragical events
of the thirty months of vital turmoil through which we have just passed have made us citizens
of the world. There can be no turning back. Our own fortunes as a nation are involved, whether
we would have it so or not.

And yet we are not the less Americans on that account. We shall be the more American if we
but remain true to the principles in which we have been bred. They are not the principles of
a province or of a single continent. We have known and boasted all along that they were the
principles of a liberated mankind. These, therefore, are the things we shall stand for, whether
in war or in peace:

That all nations are equally interested in the peace of the world and in the political stability
of free peoples, and equally responsible for their maintenance;

That the essential principle of peace is the actual equality of nations in all matters of right
or privilege;

That peace cannot securely or justly rest upon an armed balance of power;

That governments derive all their just powers from the consent of the governed and that no
other powers should be supported by the common thought, purpose, or power of the family of nations.

That the seas should be equally free and safe for the use of all peoples, under rules set up
by common agreement and consent, and that, so far as practicable, they should be accessible
to all upon equal terms;

That national armaments should be limited to the necessities of national order and domestic safety;

That the community of interest and of power upon which peace must henceforth depend imposes
upon each nation the duty of seeing to it that all influences proceeding from its own citizens
meant to encourage or assist revolution in other states should be sternly and effectually suppressed
and prevented.

I need not argue these principles to you, my fellow-countrymen: they are your own, part and
parcel of your own thinking and your own motive in affairs. They spring up native amongst us.
Upon this as a platform of purpose and of action we can stand together.

And it is imperative that we should stand together. We are being forged into a new unity amidst
the fires that now blaze throughout the world. In their ardent heat we shall, in God's providence,
let us hope, be purged of faction and division, purified of the errant humors of party and
of private interest, and shall stand forth in the days to come with a new dignity of national
pride and spirit. Let each man see to it that the dedication is in his own heart, the high
purpose of the Nation in his own mind, ruler of his own will and desire.

I stand here and have taken the high and solemn oath to which you have been audience because
the people of the United States have chosen me for this august delegation of power and have
by their gracious judgment named me their leader in affairs. I know now what the task means.
I realize to the full the responsibility which it involves. I pray God I may be given the wisdom
and the prudence to do my duty in the true spirit of this great people. I am their servant
and can succeed only as they sustain and guide me by their confidence and their counsel. The
thing I shall count upon, the thing without which neither counsel nor action will avail, is
the unity of America,--an America united in feeling, in purpose, and in its vision of duty,
of opportunity, and of service. We are to beware of all men who would turn the tasks and the
necessities of the Nation to their own private profit or use them for the building up of private
power; beware that no faction or disloyal intrigue break the harmony or embarrass the spirit
of our people; beware that our Government be kept pure and incorrupt in all its parts. United
alike in the conception of our duty and in the high resolve to perform it in the face of all
men, let us dedicate ourselves to the great task to which we must now set our hand. For myself
I beg your tolerance, your countenance, and your united aid. The shadows that now lie dark
upon our path will soon be dispelled and we shall walk with the light all about us if we be
but true to ourselves,--to ourselves as we have wished to be known in the counsels of the world
and in the thought of all those who love liberty and justice and the right exalted.

THE CALL TO WAR

[Address delivered at a joint session of the two Houses of Congress, April 2, 1917.]

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

I have called the Congress into extraordinary session because there are serious, very serious,
choices of policy to be made, and made immediately, which it was neither right nor constitutionally
permissible that I should assume the responsibility of making.

On the third of February last I officially laid before you the extraordinary announcement of
the Imperial German Government that on and after the first day of February it was its purpose
to put aside all restraints of law or of humanity and use its submarines to sink every vessel
that sought to approach either the ports of Great Britain and Ireland or the western coasts
of Europe or any of the ports controlled by the enemies of Germany within the Mediterranean.
That had seemed to be the object of the German submarine warfare earlier in the war, but since
April of last year the Imperial Government had somewhat restrained the commanders of its undersea
craft in conformity with its promise then given to us that passenger boats should not be sunk
and that due warning would be given to all other vessels which its submarines might seek to
destroy, when no resistance was offered or escape attempted, and care taken that their crews
were given at least a fair chance to save their lives in their open boats. The precautions
taken were meager and haphazard enough, as was proved in distressing instance after instance
in the progress of the cruel and unmanly business, but a certain degree of restraint was observed.
The new policy has swept every restriction aside. Vessels of every kind, whatever their flag,
their character, their cargo, their destination, their errand, have been ruthlessly sent to
the bottom without warning and without thought of help or mercy for those on board, the vessels
of friendly neutrals along with those of belligerents. Even hospital ships and ships carrying
relief to the sorely bereaved and stricken people of Belgium, though the latter were provided
with safe conduct through the proscribed areas by the German Government itself and were distinguished
by unmistakable marks of identity, have been sunk with the same reckless lack of compassion
or of principle.

I was for a little while unable to believe that such things would in fact be done by any government
that had hitherto subscribed to the humane practices of civilized nations. International law
had its origin in the attempt to set up some law which would be respected and observed upon
the seas, where no nation had right of dominion and where lay the free highways of the world.
By painful stage after stage has that law been built up, with meager enough results, indeed,
after all was accomplished that could be accomplished, but always with a clear view, at least,
of what the heart and conscience of mankind demanded. This minimum of right the German Government
has swept aside under the plea of retaliation and necessity and because it had no weapons which
it could use at sea except these which it is impossible to employ as it is employing them without
throwing to the winds all scruples of humanity or of respect for the understandings that were
supposed to underlie the intercourse of the world. I am not now thinking of the loss of property
involved, immense and serious as that is, but only of the wanton and wholesale destruction
of the lives of non-combatants, men, women, and children, engaged in pursuits which have always,
even in the darkest periods of modern history, been deemed innocent and legitimate. Property
can be paid for; the lives of peaceful and innocent people cannot be. The present German submarine
warfare against commerce is a warfare against mankind.

It is a war against all nations. American ships have been sunk, American lives taken, in ways
which it has stirred us very deeply to learn of, but the ships and people of other neutral
and friendly nations have been sunk and overwhelmed in the waters in the same way. There has
been no discrimination. The challenge is to all mankind. Each nation must decide for itself
how it will meet it. The choice we make for ourselves must be made with a moderation of counsel
and a temperateness of judgment befitting our character and our motives as a nation. We must
put excited feeling away. Our motive will not be revenge or the victorious assertion of the
physical might of the nation, but only the vindication of right, of human right, of which we
are only a single champion.

When I addressed the Congress on the twenty-sixth of February last I thought that it would
suffice to assert our neutral rights with arms, our right to use the seas against unlawful
interference, our right to keep our people safe against unlawful violence. But armed neutrality,
it now appears, is impracticable. Because submarines are in effect outlaws when used as the
German submarines have been used against merchant shipping, it is impossible to defend ships
against their attacks as the law of nations has assumed that merchantmen would defend themselves
against privateers or cruisers, visible craft giving chase upon the open sea. It is common
prudence in such circumstances, grim, necessity indeed, to endeavor to destroy them before
they have shown their own intention. They must be dealt with upon sight, if dealt with at all.
The German Government denies the right of neutrals to use arms at all within the areas of the
sea which it has proscribed, even in the defense of rights which no modern publicist has ever
before questioned their right to defend. The intimation is conveyed that the armed guards which
we have placed on our merchant ships will be treated as beyond the pale of law and subject
to be dealt with as pirates would be. Armed neutrality is ineffectual enough at best; in such
circumstances and in the face of such pretensions it is worse than ineffectual: it is likely
only to produce what it was meant to prevent; it is practically certain to draw us into the
war without either the rights or the effectiveness of belligerents. There is one choice we
cannot make, we are incapable of making: we will not choose the path of submission and suffer
the most sacred rights of our nation and our people to be ignored or violated. The wrongs against
which we now array ourselves are no common wrongs; they cut to the very roots of human life.

With a profound sense of the solemn and even tragical character of the step I am taking and
of the grave responsibilities which it involves, but in unhesitating obedience to what I deem
my constitutional duty, I advise that the Congress declare the recent course of the Imperial
German Government to be in fact nothing less than war against the government and people of
the United States; that it formally accept the status of belligerent which has thus been thrust
upon it; and that it take immediate steps not only to put the country in a more thorough state
of defense but also to exert all its power and employ all its resources to bring the Government
of the German Empire to terms and end the war.

What this will involve is clear. It will involve the utmost practicable coöperation in counsel
and action with the governments now at war with Germany, and, as incident to that, the extension
to those governments of the most liberal financial credits, in order that our resources may
so far as possible be added to theirs. It will involve the organization and mobilization of
all the material resources of the country to supply the materials of war and serve the incidental
needs of the nation in the most abundant and yet the most economical and efficient way possible.
It will involve the immediate full equipment of the navy in all respects but particularly in
supplying it with the best means of dealing with the enemy's submarines. It will involve the
immediate addition to the armed forces of the United States already provided for by law in
case of war at least 500,000 men, who should, in my opinion, be chosen upon the principle of
universal liability to service, and also the authorization of subsequent additional increments
of equal force so soon as they may be needed and can be handled in training. It will involve
also, of course, the granting of adequate credits to the Government, sustained, I hope, so
far as they can equitably be sustained by the present generation, by well conceived taxation.

I say sustained so far as may be equitable by taxation because it seems to me that it would
be most unwise to base the credits which will now be necessary entirely on money borrowed.
It is our duty, I most respectfully urge, to protect our people so far as we may against the
very serious hardships and evils which would be likely to arise out of the inflation which
would be produced by vast loans.

In carrying out the measures by which these things are to be accomplished we should keep constantly
in mind the wisdom of interfering as little as possible in our own preparation and in the equipment
of our own military forces with the duty,--for it will be a very practical duty,--of supplying
the nations already at war with Germany with the materials which they can obtain only from
us or by our assistance. They are in the field and we should help them in every way to be effective
there.

I shall take the liberty of suggesting, through the several executive departments of the Government,
for the consideration of your committees, measures for the accomplishment of the several objects
I have mentioned. I hope that it will be your pleasure to deal with them as having been framed
after very careful thought by the branch of the Government upon which the responsibility of
conducting the war and safeguarding the nation will most directly fall.

While we do these things, these deeply momentous things, let us be very clear, and make very
clear to all the world what our motives and our objects are. My own thought has not been driven
from its habitual and normal course by the unhappy events of the last two months, and I do
not believe that the thought of the nation has been altered or clouded by them. I have exactly
the same things in mind now that I had in mind when I addressed the Senate on the twenty-second
of January last; the same that I had in mind when I addressed the Congress on the third of
February and on the twenty-sixth of February. Our object now, as then, is to vindicate the
principles of peace and justice in the life of the world as against selfish, and autocratic
power and to set up amongst the really free and self-governed peoples of the world such a concert
of purpose and of action as will henceforth ensure the observance of those principles. Neutrality
is no longer feasible or desirable where the peace of the world is involved and the freedom
of its peoples, and the menace to that peace and freedom lies in the existence of autocratic
governments backed by organized force which is controlled wholly by their will, not by the
will of their people. We have seen the last of neutrality in such circumstances. We are at
the beginning of an age in which it will be insisted that the same standards of conduct and
of responsibility for wrong done shall be observed among nations and their governments that
are observed among the individual citizens of civilized states.

We have no quarrel with the German people. We have no feeling towards them but one of sympathy
and friendship. It was not upon their impulse that their government acted in entering this
war. It was not with their previous knowledge or approval. It was a war determined upon as
wars used to be determined upon in the old, unhappy days when peoples were nowhere consulted
by their rulers and wars were provoked and waged in the interest of dynasties or of little
groups of ambitious men who were accustomed to use their fellow-men as pawns and tools. Self-governed
nations do not fill their neighbor states with spies or set the course of intrigue to bring
about some critical posture of affairs which will give them an opportunity to strike and make
conquest. Such designs can be successfully worked out only under cover and where no one has
the right to ask questions. Cunningly contrived plans of deception or aggression, carried,
it may be, from generation to generation, can be worked out and kept from the light only within
the privacy of courts or behind the carefully guarded confidences of a narrow and privileged
class. They are happily impossible where public opinion commands and insists upon full information
concerning all the nation's affairs.

A steadfast concert for peace can never be maintained except by a partnership of democratic
nations. No autocratic government could be trusted to keep faith within it or observe its covenants.
It must be a league of honor, a partnership of opinion. Intrigue would eat its vitals away;
the plottings of inner circles who could plan what they would and render account to no one
would be a corruption seated at its very heart. Only free peoples can hold their purpose and
their honor steady to a common end and prefer the interests of mankind to any narrow interest
of their own.

Does not every American feel that assurance has been added to our hope for the future peace
of the world by the wonderful and heartening things that have been happening within the last
few weeks in Russia? Russia was known by those who knew it best to have been always in fact
democratic at heart, in all the vital habits of her thought, in all the intimate relationships
of her people that spoke their natural instinct, their habitual attitude towards life. The
autocracy that crowned the summit of her political structure, long as it had stood and terrible
as was the reality of its power, was not in fact Russian in origin, character, or purpose;
and now it has been shaken off and the great, generous Russian people have been added in all
their naïve majesty and might to the forces that are fighting for freedom in the world, for
justice, and for peace. Here is a fit partner for a League of Honor.

One of the things that has served to convince us that the Prussian autocracy was not and could
never be our friend is that from the very outset of the present war it has filled our unsuspecting
communities and even our offices of government with spies and set criminal intrigues everywhere
afoot against our national unity of counsel, our peace within and without, our industries and
our commerce. Indeed it is now evident that its spies were here even before the war began;
and it is unhappily not a matter of conjecture but a fact proved in our courts of justice that
the intrigues which have more than once come perilously near to disturbing the peace and dislocating
the industries of the country have been carried on at the instigation, with the support, and
even under the personal direction of official agents of the Imperial Government accredited
to the Government of the United States. Even in checking these things and trying to extirpate
them we have sought to put the most generous interpretation possible upon them because we knew
that their source lay, not in any hostile feeling or purpose of the German people towards us
(who were, no doubt as ignorant of them as we ourselves were), but only in the selfish designs
of a Government that did what it pleased and told its people nothing. But they have played
their part in serving to convince us at last that that Government entertains no real friendship
for us and means to act against our peace and security at its convenience. That it means to
stir up enemies against us at our very doors the intercepted note to the German Minister at
Mexico City is eloquent evidence.

We are accepting this challenge of hostile purpose because we know that in such a government,
following such methods, we can never have a friend; and that in the presence of its organized
power, always lying in wait to accomplish we know not what purpose, there can be no assured
security for the democratic governments of the world. We are now about to accept gauge of battle
with this natural foe to liberty and shall, if necessary, spend the whole force of the nation
to check and nullify its pretensions and its power. We are glad, now that we see the facts
with no veil of false pretense about them, to fight thus for the ultimate peace of the world
and for the liberation of its peoples, the German peoples included: for the rights of nations
great and small and the privilege of men everywhere to choose their way of life and of obedience.
The world must be made safe for democracy. Its peace must be planted upon the tested foundations
of political liberty. We have no selfish ends to serve. We desire no conquest, no dominion.
We seek no indemnities for ourselves, no material compensation for the sacrifices we shall
freely make. We are but one of the champions of the rights of mankind. We shall be satisfied
when those rights have been made as secure as the faith and the freedom of nations can make them.

Just because we fight without rancor and without selfish object, seeking nothing for ourselves
but what we shall wish to share with all free peoples, we shall, I feel confident, conduct
our operations as belligerents without passion and ourselves observe with proud punctilio the
principles of right and of fair play we profess to be fighting for.

I have said nothing of the governments allied with the Imperial Government of Germany because
they have not made war upon us or challenged us to defend our right and our honor. The Austro-Hungarian
Government has, indeed, avowed its unqualified endorsement and acceptance of the reckless and
lawless submarine warfare adopted now without disguise by the Imperial German Government, and
it has therefore not been possible for this Government to receive Count Tarnowski, the Ambassador
recently accredited to this Government by the Imperial and Royal Government of Austria-Hungary;
but that Government has not actually engaged in warfare against citizens of the United States
on the seas, and I take the liberty, for the present at least, of postponing a discussion of
our relations with the authorities at Vienna. We enter this war only where we are clearly forced
into it because there are no other means of defending our rights.

It will be all the easier for us to conduct ourselves as belligerents in a high spirit of right
and fairness because we act without animus, not in enmity towards a people or with the desire
to bring any injury or disadvantage upon them, but only in armed opposition to an irresponsible
government which has thrown aside all considerations of humanity and of right and is running
amuck. We are, let me say again, the sincere friends of the German people, and shall desire
nothing so much as the early reëstablishment of intimate relations of mutual advantage between
us,--however hard it may be for them, for the time being, to believe that this is spoken from
our hearts. We have borne with their present government through all these bitter months because
of that friendship,--exercising a patience and forbearance which would otherwise have been
impossible. We shall, happily, still have an opportunity to prove that friendship in our daily
attitude and actions towards the millions of men and women of German birth and native sympathy
who live amongst us and share our life, and we shall be proud to prove it towards all who are
in fact loyal to their neighbors and to the Government in the hour of test. They are, most
of them, as true and loyal Americans as if they had never known any other fealty or allegiance.
They will be prompt to stand with us in rebuking and restraining the few who may be of a different
mind and purpose. If there should be disloyalty, it will be dealt with with a firm hand of
stern repression; but, if it lifts its head at all, it will lift it only here and there and
without countenance except from a lawless and malignant few.

It is a distressing and oppressive duty, Gentlemen of the Congress, which I have performed
in thus addressing you. There are, it may be, many months of fiery trial and sacrifice ahead
of us. It is a fearful thing to lead this great peaceful people into war, into the most terrible
and disastrous of all wars, civilization itself seeming to be in the balance. But the right
is more precious than peace, and we shall fight for the things which we have always carried
nearest our hearts,--for democracy, for the right of those who submit to authority to have
a voice in their own governments, for the rights and liberties of small nations, for a universal
dominion of right by such a concert of free peoples as shall bring peace and safety to all
nations and make the world itself at last free. To such a task we can dedicate our lives and
our fortunes, everything that we are and everything that we have, with the pride of those who
know that the day has come when America is privileged to spend her blood and her might for
the principles that gave her birth and happiness and the peace which she has treasured. God
helping her, she can do no other.

TO THE COUNTRY

[President Wilson's Address to his Fellow-Countrymen, April 16, 1917.]

MY FELLOW-COUNTRYMEN:

The entrance of our own beloved country into the grim and terrible war for democracy and human
rights which has shaken the world creates so many problems of national life and action which
call for immediate consideration and settlement that I hope you will permit me to address to
you a few words of earnest counsel and appeal with regard to them.

We are rapidly putting our navy upon an effective war footing and are about to create and equip
a great army, but these are the simplest parts of the great task to which we have addressed
ourselves. There is not a single selfish element, so far as I can see, in the cause we are
fighting for. We are fighting for what we believe and wish to be the rights of mankind and
for the future peace and security of the world. To do this great thing worthily and successfully
we must devote ourselves to the service without regard to profit or material advantage and
with an energy and intelligence that will rise to the level of the enterprise itself. We must
realize to the full how great the task is and how many things, how many kinds and elements
of capacity and service and self-sacrifice, it involves.

These, then, are the things we must do, and do well, besides fighting,--the things without
which mere fighting would be fruitless:

We must supply abundant food for ourselves and for our armies and our seamen not only, but
also for a large part of the nations with whom we have now made common cause, in whose support
and by whose sides we shall be fighting.

We must supply ships by the hundreds out of our shipyards to carry to the other side of the
sea, submarines or no submarines, what will every day be needed there, and abundant materials
out of our fields and our mines and our factories with which not only to clothe and equip our
own forces on land and sea but also to clothe and support our people for whom the gallant fellows
under arms can no longer work, to help clothe and equip the armies with which we are coöperating
in Europe, and to keep the looms and manufactories there in raw material; coal to keep the
fires going in ships at sea and in the furnaces of hundreds of factories across the sea; steel
out of which to make arms and ammunition both here and there; rails for worn-out railways back
of the fighting fronts; locomotives and rolling stock to take the place of those every day
going to pieces; mules, horses, cattle for labor and for military service; everything with
which the people of England and France and Italy and Russia have usually supplied themselves
but cannot now afford the men, the materials, or the machinery to make.

It is evident to every thinking man that our industries, on the farms, in the shipyards, in
the mines, in the factories, must be made more prolific and more efficient than ever and that
they must be more economically managed and better adapted to the particular requirements of
our task than they have been; and what I want to say is that the men and the women who devote
their thought and their energy to these things will be serving the country and conducting the
fight for peace and freedom just as truly and just as effectively as the men on the battlefield
or in the trenches. The industrial forces of the country, men and women alike, will be a great
national, a great international, Service Army,--a notable and honored host engaged in the service
of the nation and the world, the efficient friends and saviors of free men everywhere. Thousands,
nay, hundreds of thousands, of men otherwise liable to military service will of right and of
necessity be excused from that service and assigned to the fundamental, sustaining work of
the fields and factories and mines, and they will be as much part of the great patriotic forces
of the nation as the men under fire.

I take the liberty, therefore, of addressing this word to the farmers of the country and to
all who work on the farms: The supreme need of our own nation and of the nations with which
we are coöperating is an abundance of supplies, and especially of food-stuffs. The importance
of an adequate food supply, especially for the present year, is superlative. Without abundant
food, alike for the armies and the peoples now at war, the whole great enterprise upon which
we have embarked will break down and fail. The world's food reserves are low. Not only during
the present emergency but for some time after peace shall have come both our own people and
a large proportion of the people of Europe must rely upon the harvests in America. Upon the
farmers of this country, therefore, in large measure, rests the fate of the war and the fate
of the nations. May the nation not count upon them to omit no step that will increase the production
of their land or that will bring about the most effectual coöperation in the sale and distribution
of their products? The time is short. It is of the most imperative importance that everything
possible be done and done immediately to make sure of large harvests. I call upon young men
and old alike and upon the able-bodied boys of the land to accept and act upon this duty--to
turn in hosts to the farms and make certain that no pains and no labor is lacking in this great
matter.

I particularly appeal to the farmers of the South to plant abundant food-stuffs as well as
cotton. They can show their patriotism in no better or more convincing way than by resisting
the great temptation of the present price of cotton and helping, helping upon a great scale,
to feed the nation and the peoples everywhere who are fighting for their liberties and for
our own. The variety of their crops will be the visible measure of their comprehension of their
national duty.

The Government of the United States and the governments of the several States stand ready to
coöperate. They will do everything possible to assist farmers in securing an adequate supply
of seed, an adequate force of laborers when they are most needed, at harvest time, and the
means of expediting shipments of fertilizers and farm machinery, as well as of the crops themselves
when harvested. The course of trade shall be as unhampered as it is possible to make it and
there shall be no unwarranted manipulation of the nation's food supply by those who handle
it on its way to the consumer. This is our opportunity to demonstrate the efficiency of a great
Democracy and we shall not fall short of it!

This let me say to the middlemen of every sort, whether they are handling our food-stuffs or
our raw materials of manufacture or the products of our mills and factories: The eyes of the
country will be especially upon you. This is your opportunity for signal service, efficient
and disinterested. The country expects you, as it expects all others, to forego unusual profits,
to organize and expedite shipments of supplies of every kind, but especially of food, with
an eye to the service you are rendering and in the spirit of those who enlist in the ranks,
for their people, not for themselves. I shall confidently expect you to deserve and win the
confidence of people of every sort and station.

To the men who run the railways of the country, whether they be managers or operative employees,
let me say that the railways are the arteries of the nation's life and that upon them rests
the immense responsibility of seeing to it that those arteries suffer no obstruction of any
kind, no inefficiency or slackened power. To the merchant let me suggest the motto, "Small
profits and quick service"; and to the shipbuilder the thought that the life of the war depends
upon him. The food and the war supplies must be carried across the seas no matter how many
ships are sent to the bottom. The places of those that go down must be supplied and supplied
at once. To the miner let me say that he stands where the farmer does: the work of the world
waits on him. If he slackens or fails, armies and statesmen are helpless. He also is enlisted
in the great Service Army. The manufacturer does not need to be told, I hope, that the nation
looks to him to speed and perfect every process; and I want only to remind his employees that
their service is absolutely indispensable and is counted on by every man who loves the country
and its liberties.

Let me suggest, also, that everyone who creates or cultivates a garden helps, and helps greatly,
to solve the problem of the feeding of the nations; and that every housewife who practices
strict economy puts herself in the ranks of those who serve the nation. This is the time for
America to correct her unpardonable fault of wastefulness and extravagance. Let every man and
every woman assume the duty of careful, provident use and expenditure as a public duty, as
a dictate of patriotism which no one can now expect ever to be excused or forgiven for ignoring.

In the hope that this statement of the needs of the nation and of the world in this hour of
supreme crisis may stimulate those to whom it comes and remind all who need reminder of the
solemn duties of a time such as the world has never seen before, I beg that all editors and
publishers everywhere will give as prominent publication and as wide circulation as possible
to this appeal. I venture to suggest, also, to all advertising agencies that they would perhaps
render a very substantial and timely service to the country if they would give it widespread
repetition. And I hope that clergymen will not think the theme of it an unworthy or inappropriate
subject of comment and homily from their pulpits.

The supreme test of the nation has come. We must all speak, act, and serve together!

WOODROW WILSON.

THE GERMAN PLOT

[Speech in Washington Monument Grounds, June 14, 1917.]

We know now clearly, as we knew before we ourselves were engaged in the War, that we are not
enemies of the German people, and they are not our enemies. They did not originate, or desire,
this hideous war, or wish that we should be drawn into it, and we are vaguely conscious that
we are fighting their cause, as they will some day see it themselves, as well as our own. They
themselves are in the grip of the same sinister power that has stretched its ugly talons out
and drawn blood from us.

The War was begun by the military masters of Germany, who have proved themselves to be also
the masters of Austria-Hungary. These men never regarded nations as peoples of men, women,
and children of like blood and frame as themselves, for whom Governments existed and in whom
Governments had their life. They regarded them merely as serviceable organizations, which they
could, either by force or intrigue, bend or corrupt to their own purpose. They regarded the
smaller States, particularly, and those peoples, who could be overwhelmed by force, as their
natural tools and instruments of domination.

Their purpose had long been avowed. The statesmen of other nations, to whom that purpose was
incredible, paid little attention, and regarded what the German professors expounded in their
class-rooms and the German writers set forth to the world as the goal of German policy as rather
the dream of minds detached from practical affairs and the preposterous private conceptions
of Germany's destiny than the actual plans of responsible rulers. But the rulers of Germany
knew all the while what concrete plans, what well-advanced intrigue, lay at the back of what
professors and writers were saying, and were glad to go forward unmolested, filling the thrones
of the Balkan States with German princes, putting German officers at the service of Turkey,
developing plans of sedition and rebellion in India and Egypt, and setting their fires in Persia.

The demands made by Austria upon Serbia were a mere single step in the plan which compassed
Europe and Asia from Berlin to Bagdad. They hoped that these demands might not arouse Europe,
but they meant to press them, whether they did or not. For they thought themselves ready for
the final issue of arms. Their plan was to throw a belt of German military power and political
control across the very center of Europe and beyond the Mediterranean into the heart of Asia,
and Austria-Hungary was to be as much their tool and pawn as Serbia, Bulgaria, Turkey, or the
ponderous States of the East. Austria-Hungary, indeed, was to become a part of the Central
German Empire, absorbed and dominated by the same forces and influences that originally cemented
the German States themselves.

The dream had its heart at Berlin. It could have had its heart nowhere else. It rejected entirely
the idea of the solidarity of race. The choice of peoples played no part at all in the contemplated
binding together of the racial and political units, which could keep together only by force.
And they actually carried the greater part of that amazing plan into execution.

Look how things stand. Austria, at their mercy, has acted, not upon its own initiative or upon
the choice of its own people, but at Berlin's dictation ever since the War began. Its people
now desire peace, but they cannot have it until leave is granted from Berlin. The so-called
Central Powers are, in fact, but a single Power. Serbia is at its mercy should its hand be
but for a moment freed; Bulgaria consented to its will; Rumania is overrun by the Turkish armies,
which the Germans trained into serving Germany, and the guns of the German warships lying in
the harbor at Constantinople remind the Turkish statesmen every day that they have no choice
but to take their orders from Berlin.

From Hamburg to the Persian Gulf the net is spread. Is it not easy to understand the eagerness
for peace that has been manifested by Berlin ever since the snare was set and sprung? "Peace,
peace, peace" has been the talk of her Foreign Office for a year or more, not peace upon her
own initiative, but upon the initiative of the nations over which she now deems herself to
hold the advantage. A little of the talk has been public, but most of it has been private,
through all sorts of channels. It has come to me in all sorts of guises, but never with the
terms disclosed which the German Government would be willing to accept.

That Government has other valuable pawns in its hands besides those I have mentioned. It still
holds a valuable part of France, though with a slowly relaxing grasp, and practically the whole
of Belgium. Its armies press close on Russia and overrun Poland. It cannot go farther--it dare
not go back. It wishes to close its bargain before it is too late and it has little left to
offer for the pound of flesh it will demand. The military masters under whom Germany is bleeding
see very clearly to what point fate has brought them: if they fall back or are forced back
an inch, their power abroad and at home will fall to pieces. It is their power at home of which
they are thinking now more than of their power abroad. It is that power which is trembling
under their very feet.

Deep fear has entered their hearts. They have but one chance to perpetuate their military power,
or even their controlling political influence. If they can secure peace now, with the immense
advantage still in their hands, they will have justified themselves before the German people.
They will have gained by force what they promised to gain by it--an immense expansion of German
power and an immense enlargement of German industrial and commercial opportunities. Their prestige
will be secure, and with their prestige their political power.

If they fail, their people will thrust them aside. A Government accountable to the people themselves
will be set up in Germany, as has been the case in England, the United States, and France--in
all great countries of modern times except Germany. If they succeed they are safe, and Germany
and the world are undone. If they fail, Germany is saved and the world will be at peace. If
they succeed, America will fall within the menace, and we, and all the rest of the world, must
remain armed, as they will remain, and must make ready for the next step in their aggression.
If they fail, the world may unite for peace and Germany may be of the union.

Do you not now understand the new intrigue for peace, and why the masters of Germany do not
hesitate to use any agency that promises to effect their purpose, the deceit of nations? Their
present particular aim is to deceive all those who, throughout the world, stand for the rights
of peoples and the self-government of nations, for they see what immense strength the forces
of justice and liberalism are gathering out of this war. They are employing Liberals in their
enterprises. Let them once succeed, and these men, now their tools, will be ground to powder
beneath the weight of the great military Empire; the Revolutionists of Russia will be cut off
from all succour and the coöperation of Western Europe, and a counter-revolution will be fostered
and supported; Germany herself will lose her chance of freedom, and all Europe will arm for
the next final struggle.

The sinister intrigue is being no less actively conducted in this country than in Russia and
in every country of Europe into which the agents and dupes of the Imperial German Government
can get access. That Government has many spokesmen here, in places both high and low. They
have learned discretion; they keep within the law. It is opinion they utter now, not sedition.
They proclaim the liberal purposes of their masters, and they declare that this is a foreign
war, which can touch America with no danger either to her lands or institutions. They set England
at the center of the stage, and talk of her ambition to assert her economic dominion throughout
the world. They appeal to our ancient tradition of isolation, and seek to undermine the Government
with false professions of loyalty to its principles.

But they will make no headway. Falsehood betrays them in every accent. These facts are patent
to all the world, and nowhere more plainly than in the United States, where we are accustomed
to deal with facts, not sophistries; and the great fact that stands out above all the rest
is that this is a peoples' war for freedom, justice and self-government among all the nations
of the world, a war to make the world safe for the peoples who live upon it, the German people
included, and that with us rests the choice to break through all these hypocrisies, the patent
cheats and masks of brute force, and help set the world free, or else stand aside and let it
be dominated through sheer weight of arms and the arbitrary choices of the self-constituted
masters by the nation which can maintain the biggest armies, the most irresistible armaments,
a power to which the world has afforded no parallel, in the face of which political freedom
must wither and perish.

For us there was but one choice. We have made it, and woe be to that man, or that group of
men, that seeks to stand in our way in this day of high resolution, when every principle we
hold dearest is to be vindicated and made secure for the salvation of the nation. We are ready
to plead at the bar of history, and our flag shall wear a new luster. Once more we shall make
good with our lives and fortunes the great faith to which we are born, and a new glory shall
shine in the face of our people.

REPLY TO THE POPE

[This important and eloquent document, though signed by the Secretary of State, was of course
authorized by the President, and indeed bears internal marks of being his own composition.
The Pope had made a plea for peace, which was by our government deemed premature.]

AUGUST 27, 1917.

TO HIS HOLINESS BENEDICTUS XV, POPE:

In acknowledgment of the communication of Your Holiness to the belligerent peoples, dated August
1, 1917, the President of the United States requests me to transmit the following reply:

Every heart that has not been blinded and hardened by this terrible war must be touched by
this moving appeal of His Holiness the Pope, must feel the dignity and force of the humane
and generous motives which prompted it, and must fervently wish that we might take the path
of peace he so persuasively points out. But it would be folly to take it if it does not in
fact lead to the goal he proposes. Our response must be based upon the stern facts and upon
nothing else. It is not a mere cessation of arms he desires; it is a stable and enduring peace.
This agony must not be gone through with again, and it must be a matter of very sober judgment
that will insure us against it.

His Holiness in substance proposes that we return to the status quo ante bellum, and that then
there be a general condonation, disarmament, and a concert of nations based upon an acceptance
of the principle of arbitration; that by a similar concert freedom of the seas be established;
and that the territorial claims of France and Italy, the perplexing problems of the Balkan
States, and the restitution of Poland be left to such conciliatory adjustments as may be possible
in the new temper of such a peace, due regard being paid to the aspirations of the peoples
whose political fortunes and affiliations will be involved.

It is manifest that no part of this program can be successfully carried out unless the restitution
of the status quo ante furnishes a firm and satisfactory basis for it. The object of this war
is to deliver the free peoples of the world from the menace and the actual power of a vast
military establishment controlled by an irresponsible government which, having secretly planned
to dominate the world, proceeded to carry the plan out without regard either to the sacred
obligations of treaty or the long-established practices and long-cherished principles of international
action and honor; which chose its own time for the war; delivered its blow fiercely and suddenly;
stopped at no barrier either of law or of mercy; swept a whole continent within the tide of
blood--not the blood of soldiers only, but the blood of innocent women and children also and
of the helpless poor; and now stands balked but not defeated, the enemy of four-fifths of the
world. This power is not the German people. It is the ruthless master of the German people.
It is no business of ours how that great people came under its control or submitted with temporary
zest to the domination of its purpose; but it is our business to see to it that the history
of the rest of the world is no longer left to its handling.

To deal with such a power by way of peace upon the plan proposed by His Holiness the Pope would,
so far as we can see, involve a recuperation of its strength and a renewal of its policy; would
make it necessary to create a permanent hostile combination of nations against the German people
who are its instruments; and would result in abandoning the newborn Russia to the intrigue,
the manifold subtle interference, and the certain counter-revolution which would be attempted
by all the malign influences to which the German Government has of late accustomed the world.
Can peace be based upon a restitution of its power or upon any word of honor it could pledge
in a treaty of settlement and accommodation?

Responsible statesmen must now everywhere see, if they never saw before, that no peace can
rest securely upon political or economic restrictions meant to benefit some nations and cripple
or embarrass others, upon vindictive action of any sort, or any kind of revenge or deliberate
injury. The American people have suffered intolerable wrongs at the hands of the Imperial German
Government, but they desire no reprisal upon the German people who have themselves suffered
all things in this war which they did not choose. They believe that peace should rest upon
the rights of peoples, not the rights of Governments--the rights of peoples great or small,
weak or powerful--their equal right to freedom and security and self-government and to a participation
upon fair terms in the economic opportunities of the world, the German people of course included
if they will accept equality and not seek domination.

The test, therefore, of every plan of peace is this: Is it based upon the faith of all the
peoples involved or merely upon the word of an ambitious and intriguing government on the one
hand and of a group of free peoples on the other? This is a test which goes to the root of
the matter; and it is the test which must be applied.

The purposes of the United States in this war are known to the whole world, to every people
to whom the truth has been permitted to come. They do not need to be stated again. We seek
no material advantage of any kind. We believe that the intolerable wrongs done in this war
by the furious and brutal power of the Imperial German Government ought to be repaired, but
not at the expense of the sovereignty of any people--rather a vindication of the sovereignty
both of those that are weak and of those that are strong. Punitive damages, the dismemberment
of empires, the establishment of selfish and exclusive economic leagues, we deem inexpedient
and in the end worse than futile, no proper basis for a peace of any kind, least of all for
an enduring peace. That must be based upon justice and fairness and the common rights of mankind.

We cannot take the word of the present rulers of Germany as a guaranty of anything that is
to endure, unless explicitly supported by such conclusive evidence of the will and purpose
of the German people themselves as the other peoples of the world would be justified in accepting.
Without such guaranties treaties of settlement, agreements for disarmament, covenants to set
up arbitration in the place of force, territorial adjustments, reconstitutions of small nations,
if made with the German Government, no man, no nation could now depend on. We must await some
new evidence of the purposes of the great peoples of the central powers. God grant it may be
given soon and in a way to restore the confidence of all peoples everywhere in the faith of
nations and the possibility of a covenanted peace.

ROBERT LANSING,

Secretary of State of the United States of America.

LABOR MUST BE FREE

[Address to the American Federation of Labor Convention, Buffalo, New York, November 12, 1917.]

MR. PRESIDENT, DELEGATES OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

I esteem it a great privilege and a real honor to be thus admitted to your public counsels.
When your executive committee paid me the compliment of inviting me here I gladly accepted
the invitation because it seems to me that this, above all other times in our history, is the
time for common counsel, for the drawing together not only of the energies but of the minds
of the Nation. I thought that it was a welcome opportunity for disclosing to you some of the
thoughts that have been gathering in my mind during these last momentous months.

CRITICAL TIME IN HISTORY

I am introduced to you as the President of the United States, and yet I would be pleased if
you would put the thought of the office into the background and regard me as one of your fellow-citizens
who has come here to speak, not the words of authority, but the words of counsel; the words
which men should speak to one another who wish to be frank in a moment more critical perhaps
than the history of the world has ever yet known; a moment when it is every man's duty to forget
himself, to forget his own interests, to fill himself with the nobility of a great national
and world conception, and act upon a new platform elevated above the ordinary affairs of life
and lifted to where men have views of the long destiny of mankind.

I think that in order to realize just what this moment of counsel is it is very desirable that
we should remind ourselves just how this war came about and just what it is for. You can explain
most wars very simply, but the explanation of this is not so simple. Its roots run deep into
all the obscure soils of history, and in my view this is the last decisive issue between the
old principle of power and the new principle of freedom.

WAR STARTED BY GERMANY

The war was started by Germany. Her authorities deny that they started it, but I am willing
to let the statement I have just made await the verdict of history. And the thing that needs
to be explained is why Germany started the war. Remember what the position of Germany in the
world was--as enviable a position as any nation has ever occupied. The whole world stood at
admiration of her wonderful intellectual and material achievements. All the intellectual men
of the world went to school to her. As a university man I have been surrounded by men trained
in Germany, men who had resorted to Germany because nowhere else could they get such thorough
and searching training, particularly in the principles of science and the principles that underlie
modern material achievement. Her men of science had made her industries perhaps the most competent
industries of the world, and the label "Made in Germany" was a guarantee of good workmanship
and of sound material. She had access to all the markets of the world, and every other nation
who traded in those markets feared Germany because of her effective and almost irresistible
competition. She had a "place in the sun."

GERMANY'S INDUSTRIAL GROWTH

Why was she not satisfied? What more did she want? There was nothing in the world of peace
that she did not already have and have in abundance. We boast of the extraordinary pace of
American advancement. We show with pride the statistics of the increase of our industries and
of the population of our cities. Well, those statistics did not match the recent statistics
of Germany. Her old cities took on youth and grew faster than any American cities ever grew.
Her old industries opened their eyes and saw a new world and went out for its conquest. And
yet the authorities of Germany were not satisfied.

You have one part of the answer to the question why she was not satisfied in her methods of
competition. There is no important industry in Germany upon which the Government has not laid
its hands, to direct it and, when necessity arose, control it; and you have only to ask any
man whom you meet who is familiar with the conditions that prevailed before the war in the
matter of national competition to find out the methods of competition which the German manufacturers
and exporters used under the patronage and support of the Government of Germany. You will find
that they were the same sorts of competition that we have tried to prevent by law within our
own borders. If they could not sell their goods cheaper than we could sell ours at a profit
to themselves they could get a subsidy from the Government which made it possible to sell them
cheaper anyhow, and the conditions of competition were thus controlled in large measure by
the German Government itself.

BERLIN-BAGDAD RAILWAY

But that did not satisfy the German Government. All the while there was lying behind its thought
and in its dreams of the future a political control which would enable it in the long run to
dominate the labor and the industry of the world. They were not content with success by superior
achievement; they wanted success by authority. I suppose very few of you have thought much
about the Berlin-to-Bagdad Railway. The Berlin-Bagdad Railway was constructed in order to run
the threat of force down the flank of the industrial undertakings of half a dozen other countries;
so that when German competition came in it would not be resisted too far, because there was
always the possibility of getting German armies into the heart of that country quicker than
any other armies could be got there.

