We must seek the Scuola di San Rocco for examples of Tintoretto's liveliest imagination. Without
ceasing to be Italian in his attention to harmony and grace, he far exceeded the masters of
his nation in the power of suggesting what is weird, mysterious, upon the border-land of the
grotesque. And of this quality there are three remarkable instances in the Scuola. No one but
Tintoretto could have evoked the fiend in his Temptation of Christ. It is an indescribable
hermaphroditic genius, the genius of carnal fascination, with outspread downy rose-plumed wings,
and flaming bracelets on the full but sinewy arms, who kneels and lifts aloft great stones,
smiling entreatingly to the sad, grey Christ seated beneath a rugged pent-house of the desert.
No one again but Tintoretto could have dashed the hot lights of that fiery sunset in such quivering
flakes upon the golden flesh of Eve, half-hidden among laurels, as she stretches forth the
fruit of the Fall to shrinking Adam. No one but Tintoretto, till we come to Blake, could have
imagined yonder Jonah, summoned by the beck of God from the whale's belly. The monstrous fish
rolls over in the ocean, blowing portentous vapour from his trump-shaped nostril. The prophet's
beard descends upon his naked breast in hoary ringlets to the girdle. He has forgotten the
past peril of the deep, although the whale's jaws yawn around him. Between him and the outstretched
finger of Jehovah calling him again to life, there runs a spark of unseen spiritual electricity.

To comprehend Tintoretto's touch upon the pastoral idyll we must turn our steps to San Giorgio
again, and pace those meadows by the running river in company with his Manna-Gatherers. Or
we may seek the Accademia, and notice how he here has varied the Temptation of Adam by Eve,
choosing a less tragic motive of seduction than the one so powerfully rendered at San Rocco.
Or in the Ducal Palace we may take our station, hour by hour, before the Marriage of Bacchus
and Ariadne. It is well to leave the very highest achievements of art untouched by criticism
undescribed. And in this picture we have the most perfect of all modern attempts to realise
an antique myth--more perfect than Raphael's Galatea, or Titian's Meeting of Bacchus with Ariadne,
or Botticelli's Birth of Venus from the Sea. It may suffice to marvel at the slight effect
which melodies so powerful and so direct as these produce upon the ordinary public. Sitting,
as is my wont, one Sunday morning, opposite the Bacchus, four Germans with a cicerone sauntered
by. The subject was explained to them. They waited an appreciable space of time. Then the youngest
opened his lips and spake: "Bacchus war der Wein-Gott." And they all moved heavily away. Bos
locutus est. "Bacchus was the wine-god!" This, apparently, is what a picture tells to one man.
To another it presents divine harmonies, perceptible indeed in nature, but here by the painter-poet
for the first time brought together and cadenced in a work of art. For another it is perhaps
the hieroglyph of pent-up passions and desired impossibilities. For yet another it may only
mean the unapproachable inimitable triumph of consummate craft.

Tintoretto, to be rightly understood, must be sought all over Venice--in the church as well
as the Scuola di San Rocco; in the Temptation of S. Anthony at S. Trovaso no less than in the
Temptations of Eve and Christ; in the decorative pomp of the Sala del Senato, and in the Paradisal
vision of the Sala del Gran Consiglio. Yet, after all, there is one of his most characteristic
moods, to appreciate which fully we return to the Madonna dell'Orto. I have called him "the
painter of impossibilities." At rare moments he rendered them possible by sheer imaginative
force. If we wish to realise this phase of his creative power, and to measure our own subordination
to his genius in its most hazardous enterprise, we must spend much time in the choir of this
church. Lovers of art who mistrust this play of the audacious fancy--aiming at sublimity in
supersensual regions, sometimes attaining to it by stupendous effort or authentic revelation,
not seldom sinking to the verge of bathos, and demanding the assistance of interpretative sympathy
in the spectator--such men will not take the point of view required of them by Tintoretto in
his boldest flights, in the Worship of the Golden Calf and in the Destruction of the World
by Water. It is for them to ponder well the flying archangel with the scales of judgment in
his hand, and the seraph-charioted Jehovah enveloping Moses upon Sinai in lightnings.

The gondola has had a long rest. Were Francesco but a little more impatient, he might be wondering
what had become of the padrone. I bid him turn, and we are soon gliding into the Sacca della
Misericordia. This is a protected float, where the wood which comes from Cadore and the hills
of the Ampezzo is stored in spring. Yonder square white house, standing out to sea, fronting
Murano and the Alps, they call the Casa degli Spiriti. No one cares to inhabit it; for here,
in old days, it was the wont of the Venetians to lay their dead for a night's rest before their
final journey to the graveyard of S. Michele. So many generations of dead folk had made that
house their inn, that it is now no fitting home for living men. San Michele is the island close
before Murano, where the Lombardi built one of their most romantically graceful churches of
pale Istrian stone, and where the Campo Santo has for centuries received the dead into its
oozy clay. The cemetery is at present undergoing restoration. Its state of squalor and abandonment
to cynical disorder makes one feel how fitting for Italians would be the custom of cremation.
An island in the lagoons devoted to funeral pyres is a solemn and ennobling conception. This
graveyard, with its ruinous walls, its mangy riot of unwholesome weeds, its corpses festering
in slime beneath neglected slabs in hollow chambers, and the mephitic wash of poisoned waters
that surround it, inspires the horror of disgust.

The morning has not lost its freshness. Antelao and Tofana, guarding the vale above Cortina,
show faint streaks of snow upon their amethyst. Little clouds hang in the still autumn sky.
There are men dredging for shrimps and crabs through shoals uncovered by the ebb. Nothing can
be lovelier, more resting to eyes tired with pictures than this tranquil, sunny expanse of
the lagoon. As we round the point of the Bersaglio, new landscapes of island and Alp and low-lying
mainland move into sight at every slow stroke of the oar. A luggage-train comes lumbering along
the railway bridge, puffing white smoke into the placid blue. Then we strike down Cannaregio,
and I muse upon processions of kings and generals and noble strangers, entering Venice by this
water-path from Mestre, before the Austrians built their causeway for the trains. Some of the
rare scraps of fresco upon house fronts, still to be seen in Venice, are left in Cannaregio.
They are chiaroscuro allegories in a bold bravura manner of the sixteenth century. From these
and from a few rosy fragments on the Fondaco dei Tedeschi, the Fabbriche Nuove, and precious
fading figures in a certain courtyard near San Stefano, we form some notion how Venice looked
when all her palaces were painted. Pictures by Gentile Bellini, Mansueti, and Carpaccio help
the fancy in this work of restoration. And here and there, in back canals, we come across coloured
sections of old buildings, capped by true Venetian chimneys, which for a moment seem to realise
our dream.

A morning with Tintoretto might well be followed by a morning with Carpaccio or Bellini. But
space is wanting in these pages. Nor would it suit the manner of this medley to hunt the Lombardi
through palaces and churches, pointing out their singularities of violet and yellow panellings
in marble, the dignity of their wide-opened arches, or the delicacy of their shallow chiselled
traceries in cream-white Istrian stone. It is enough to indicate the goal of many a pleasant
pilgrimage: warrior angels of Vivarini and Basaiti hidden in a dark chapel of the Frari; Fra
Francesco's fantastic orchard of fruits and flowers in distant S. Francesco della Vigna; the
golden Gian Bellini in S. Zaccaria; Palma's majestic S. Barbara in S. Maria Formosa; San Giobbe's
wealth of sculptured frieze and floral scroll; the Ponte di Paradiso, with its Gothic arch;
the painted plates in the Museo Civico; and palace after palace, loved for some quaint piece
of tracery, some moulding full of mediæval symbolism, some fierce impossible Renaissance freak
of fancy.

Rather than prolong this list, I will tell a story which drew me one day past the Public Gardens
to the metropolitan Church of Venice, San Pietro di Castello. The novella is related by Bandello.
It has, as will be noticed, points of similarity to that of "Romeo and Juliet."

V.--A VENETIAN NOVELLA.

At the time when Carpaccio and Gentile Bellini were painting those handsome youths in tight
jackets, parti-coloured hose, and little round caps placed awry upon their shocks of well-combed
hair, there lived in Venice two noblemen, Messer Pietro and Messer Paolo, whose palaces fronted
each other on the Grand Canal. Messer Paolo was a widower, with one married daughter, and an
only son of twenty years or thereabouts, named Gerardo. Messer Pietro's wife was still living;
and this couple had but one child, a daughter, called Elena, of exceeding beauty, aged fourteen.
Gerardo, as is the wont of gallants, was paying his addresses to a certain lady; and nearly
every day he had to cross the Grand Canal in his gondola, and to pass beneath the house of
Elena on his way to visit his Dulcinea; for this lady lived some distance up a little canal
on which the western side of Messer Pietro's palace looked.

Now it so happened that at the very time when the story opens, Messer Pietro's wife fell ill
and died, and Elena was left alone at home with her father and her old nurse. Across the little
canal of which I spoke there dwelt another nobleman, with four daughters, between the years
of seventeen and twenty-one. Messer Pietro, desiring to provide amusement for poor little Elena,
besought this gentleman that his daughters might come on feast-days to play with her. For you
must know that, except on festivals of the Church, the custom of Venice required that gentlewomen
should remain closely shut within the private apartments of their dwellings. His request was
readily granted; and on the next feast-day the five girls began to play at ball together for
forfeits in the great saloon, which opened with its row of Gothic arches and balustrated balcony
upon the Grand Canal. The four sisters, meanwhile, had other thoughts than for the game. One
or other of them, and sometimes three together, would let the ball drop, and run to the balcony
to gaze upon their gallants, passing up and down in gondolas below; and then they would drop
flowers or ribbands for tokens. Which negligence of theirs annoyed Elena much; for she thought
only of the game. Wherefore she scolded them in childish wise, and one of them made answer,
"Elena, if you only knew how pleasant it is to play as we are playing on this balcony, you
would not care so much for ball and forfeits!"

On one of those feast-days the four sisters were prevented from keeping their little friend
company. Elena, with nothing to do, and feeling melancholy, leaned upon the window-sill which
overlooked the narrow canal. And it chanced that just then Gerardo, on his way to Dulcinea,
went by; and Elena looked down at him, as she had seen those sisters look at passers-by. Gerardo
caught her eye, and glances passed between them, and Gerardo's gondolier, bending from the
poop, said to his master, "O master! methinks that gentle maiden is better worth your wooing
than Dulcinea." Gerardo pretended to pay no heed to these words; but after rowing a little
way, he bade the man turn, and they went slowly back beneath the window. This time Elena, thinking
to play the game which her four friends had played, took from her hair a clove carnation and
let it fall close to Gerardo on the cushion of the gondola. He raised the flower and put it
to his lips, acknowledging the courtesy with a grave bow. But the perfume of the clove and
the beauty of Elena in that moment took possession of his heart together, and straightway he
forgot Dulcinea.

As yet he knew not who Elena was. Nor is this wonderful; for the daughters of Venetian nobles
were but rarely seen or spoken of. But the thought of her haunted him awake and sleeping; and
every feast-day, when there was the chance of seeing her, he rowed his gondola beneath her
windows. And there she appeared to him in company with her four friends; the five girls clustering
together like sister roses beneath the pointed windows of the Gothic balcony. Elena, on her
side, had no thought of love; for of love she had heard no one speak. But she took pleasure
in the game those friends had taught her, of leaning from the balcony to watch Gerardo. He
meanwhile grew love-sick and impatient, wondering how he might declare his passion. Until one
day it happened that, walking through a lane or calle which skirted Messer Pietro's palace,
he caught sight of Elena's nurse, who was knocking at the door, returning from some shopping
she had made. This nurse had been his own nurse in childhood; therefore he remembered her,
and cried aloud, "Nurse, Nurse!" But the old woman did not hear him, and passed into the house
and shut the door behind her. Whereupon Gerardo, greatly moved, still called to her, and when
he reached the door, began to knock upon it violently. And whether it was the agitation of
finding himself at last so near the wish of his heart, or whether the pains of waiting for
his love had weakened him, I know not; but, while he knocked, his senses left him, and he fell
fainting in the doorway. Then the nurse recognised the youth to whom she had given suck, and
brought him into the courtyard by the help of handmaidens, and Elena came down and gazed upon
him. The house was now full of bustle, and Messer Pietro heard the noise, and seeing the son
of his neighbour in so piteous a plight, he caused Gerardo to be laid upon a bed. But for all
they could do with him, he recovered not from his swoon. And after a while force was that they
should place him in a gondola and ferry him across to his father's house. The nurse went with
him, and informed Messer Paolo of what had happened. Doctors were sent for, and the whole family
gathered round Gerardo's bed. After a while he revived a little; and thinking himself still
upon the doorstep of Pietro's palace, called again, "Nurse, Nurse!" She was near at hand, and
would have spoken to him. But while he summoned his senses to his aid, he became gradually
aware of his own kinsfolk and dissembled the secret of his grief. They beholding him in better
cheer, departed on their several ways, and the nurse still sat alone beside him. Then he explained
to her what he had at heart, and how he was in love with a maiden whom he had seen on feast-days
in the house of Messer Pietro. But still he knew not Elena's name; and she, thinking it impossible
that such a child had inspired this passion, began to marvel which of the four sisters it was
Gerardo loved. Then they appointed the next Sunday, when all the five girls should be together,
for Gerardo by some sign, as he passed beneath the window, to make known to the old nurse his lady.

Elena, meanwhile, who had watched Gerardo lying still and pale in swoon beneath her on the
pavement of the palace, felt the stirring of a new unknown emotion in her soul. When Sunday
came, she devised excuses for keeping her four friends away, bethinking her that she might
see him once again alone, and not betray the agitation which she dreaded. This ill suited the
schemes of the nurse, who nevertheless was forced to be content. But after dinner, seeing how
restless was the girl, and how she came and went, and ran a thousand times to the balcony,
the nurse began to wonder whether Elena herself were not in love with some one. So she feigned
to sleep, but placed herself within sight of the window. And soon Gerardo came by in his gondola;
and Elena, who was prepared, threw to him her nosegay. The watchful nurse had risen, and peeping
behind the girl's shoulder, saw at a glance how matters stood. Thereupon she began to scold
her charge, and say, "Is this a fair and comely thing, to stand all day at balconies and throw
flowers at passers-by? Woe to you if your father should come to know of this! He would make
you wish yourself among the dead!" Elena, sore troubled at her nurse's rebuke, turned and threw
her arms about her neck, and called her "Nanna!" as the wont is of Venetian children. Then
she told the old woman how she had learned that game from the four sisters, and how she thought
it was not different, but far more pleasant, than the game of forfeits; whereupon her nurse
spoke gravely, explaining what love is, and how that love should lead to marriage, and bidding
her search her own heart if haply she could choose Gerardo for her husband. There was no reason,
as she knew, why Messer Paolo's son should not mate with Messer Pietro's daughter. But being
a romantic creature, as many women are, she resolved to bring the match about in secret.

Elena took little time to reflect, but told her nurse that she was willing, if Gerardo willed
it too, to have him for her husband. Then went the nurse and made the young man know how matters
stood, and arranged with him a day, when Messer Pietro should be in the Council of the Pregadi,
and the servants of the palace otherwise employed, for him to come and meet his Elena. A glad
man was Gerardo, nor did he wait to think how better it would be to ask the hand of Elena in
marriage from her father. But when the day arrived, he sought the nurse, and she took him to
a chamber in the palace, where there stood an image of the Blessed Virgin. Elena was there,
pale and timid; and when the lovers clasped hands, neither found many words to say. But the
nurse bade them take heart, and leading them before Our Lady, joined their hands, and made
Gerardo place his ring on his bride's finger. After this fashion were Gerardo and Elena wedded.
And for some while, by the assistance of the nurse, they dwelt together in much love and solace,
meeting often as occasion offered.

Messer Paolo, who knew nothing of these things, took thought meanwhile for his son's career.
It was the season when the Signory of Venice sends a fleet of galleys to Beirut with merchandise;
and the noblemen may bid for the hiring of a ship, and charge it with wares, and send whomsoever
they list as factor in their interest. One of these galleys, then, Messer Paolo engaged, and
told his son that he had appointed him to journey with it and increase their wealth. "On thy
return, my son," he said, "we will bethink us of a wife for thee." Gerardo, when he heard these
words, was sore troubled, and first he told his father roundly that he would not go, and flew
off in the twilight to pour out his perplexities to Elena. But she, who was prudent and of
gentle soul, besought him to obey his father in this thing, to the end, moreover, that, having
done his will and increased his wealth, he might afterwards unfold the story of their secret
marriage. To these good counsels, though loth, Gerardo consented. His father was overjoyed
at his son's repentance. The galley was straightway laden with merchandise, and Gerardo set
forth on his voyage.

The trip to Beirut and back lasted usually six months or at the most seven. Now when Gerardo
had been some six months away, Messer Pietro, noticing how fair his daughter was, and how she
had grown into womanhood, looked about him for a husband for her. When he had found a youth
suitable in birth and wealth and years, he called for Elena, and told her that the day had
been appointed for her marriage. She, alas! knew not what to answer. She feared to tell her
father that she was already married, for she knew not whether this would please Gerardo. For
the same reason she dreaded to throw herself upon the kindness of Messer Paolo. Nor was her
nurse of any help in counsel; for the old woman repented her of what she had done, and had
good cause to believe that, even if the marriage with Gerardo were accepted by the two fathers,
they would punish her for her own part in the affair. Therefore she bade Elena wait on fortune,
and hinted to her that, if the worst came to the worst, no one need know she had been wedded
with the ring to Gerardo. Such weddings, you must know, were binding; but till they had been
blessed by the Church, they had not taken the force of a religious sacrament. And this is still
the case in Italy among the common folk, who will say of a man, "Si, è ammogliato; ma il matrimonio
non è stato benedetto." "Yes, he has taken a wife, but the marriage has not yet been blessed."

So the days flew by in doubt and sore distress for Elena. Then on the night before her wedding,
she felt that she could bear this life no longer. But having no poison, and being afraid to
pierce her bosom with a knife, she lay down on her bed alone, and tried to die by holding in
her breath. A mortal swoon came over her; her senses fled; the life in her remained suspended.
And when her nurse came next morning to call her, she found poor Elena cold as a corpse. Messer
Pietro and all the household rushed, at the nurse's cries, into the room, and they all saw
Elena stretched dead upon her bed undressed. Physicians were called, who made theories to explain
the cause of death. But all believed that she was really dead, beyond all help of art or medicine.
Nothing remained but to carry her to church for burial instead of marriage. Therefore, that
very evening, a funeral procession was formed, which moved by torchlight up the Grand Canal,
along the Riva, past the blank walls of the Arsenal, to the Campo before San Pietro in Castello.
Elena lay beneath the black felze in one gondola, with a priest beside her praying, and other
boats followed bearing mourners. Then they laid her marble chest outside the church, and all
departed, still with torches burning, to their homes.

Now it so fell out that upon that very evening Gerardo's galley had returned from Syria, and
was anchoring within the port of Lido, which looks across to the island of Castello. It was
the gentle custom of Venice at that time that, when a ship arrived from sea, the friends of
those on board at once came out to welcome them, and take and give the news. Therefore many
noble youths and other citizens were on the deck of Gerardo's galley, making merry with him
over the safe conduct of his voyage. Of one of these he asked, "Whose is yonder funeral procession
returning from San Pietro?" The young man made answer, "Alas for poor Elena, Messer Pietro's
daughter! She should have been married this day. But death took her, and to-night they buried
her in the marble monument outside the church." A woeful man was Gerardo, hearing suddenly
this news, and knowing what his dear wife must have suffered ere she died. Yet he restrained
himself, daring not to disclose his anguish, and waited till his friends had left the galley.
Then he called to him the captain of the oarsmen, who was his friend, and unfolded to him all
the story of his love and sorrow, and said that he must go that night and see his wife once
more, if even he should have to break her tomb. The captain tried to dissuade him, but in vain.
Seeing him so obstinate, he resolved not to desert Gerardo. The two men took one of the galley's
boats, and rowed together toward San Pietro. It was past midnight when they reached the Campo
and broke the marble sepulchre asunder. Pushing back its lid, Gerardo descended into the grave
and abandoned himself upon the body of his Elena. One who had seen them at that moment could
not well have said which of the two was dead and which was living--Elena or her husband. Meantime
the captain of the oarsmen, fearing lest the watch (set by the Masters of the Night to keep
the peace of Venice) might arrive, was calling on Gerardo to come back. Gerardo heeded him
no whit. But at the last, compelled by his entreaties, and as it were astonied, he arose, bearing
his wife's corpse in his arms, and carried her clasped against his bosom to the boat, and laid
her therein, and sat down by her side and kissed her frequently, and suffered not his friend's
remonstrances. Force was for the captain, having brought himself into this scrape, that he
should now seek refuge by the nearest way from justice. Therefore he hoved gently from the
bank, and plied his oar, and brought the gondola apace into the open waters. Gerardo still
clasped Elena, dying husband by dead wife. But the sea-breeze freshened towards daybreak, and
the Captain, looking down upon that pair, and bringing to their faces the light of his boat's
lantern, judged their case not desperate at all. On Elena's cheek there was a flush of life
less deadly even than the pallor of Gerardo's forehead. Thereupon the good man called aloud,
and Gerardo started from his grief; and both together they chafed the hands and feet of Elena;
and, the sea-breeze aiding with its saltness, they awoke in her the spark of life.

Dimly burned the spark. But Gerardo, being aware of it, became a man again. Then, having taken
counsel with the captain, both resolved to bear her to that brave man's mother's house. A bed
was soon made ready, and food was brought; and after due time, she lifted up her face and knew
Gerardo. The peril of the grave was past, but thought had now to be taken for the future. Therefore
Gerardo, leaving his wife to the captain's mother, rowed back to the galley and prepared to
meet his father. With good store of merchandise and with great gains from his traffic, he arrived
in that old palace on the Grand Canal. Then having opened to Messer Paolo the matters of his
journey, and shown him how he had fared, and set before him tables of disbursements and receipts,
he seized the moment of his father's gladness. "Father," he said, and as he spoke he knelt
upon his knees, "Father, I bring you not good store of merchandise and bags of gold alone;
I bring you also a wedded wife, whom I have saved this night from death." And when the old
man's surprise was quieted, he told him the whole story. Now Messer Paolo, desiring no better
than that his son should wed the heiress of his neighbour, and knowing well that Messer Pietro
would make great joy receiving back his daughter from the grave, bade Gerardo in haste take
rich apparel and clothe Elena therewith, and fetch her home. These things were swiftly done;
and after evenfall Messer Pietro was bidden to grave business in his neighbour's palace. With
heavy heart he came, from a house of mourning to a house of gladness. But there, at the banquet-table's
head he saw his dead child Elena alive, and at her side a husband. And when the whole truth
had been declared, he not only kissed and embraced the pair who knelt before him, but of his
goodness forgave the nurse, who in her turn came trembling to his feet. Then fell there joy
and bliss in over-measure that night upon both palaces of the Canal Grande. And with the morrow
the Church blessed the spousals which long since had been on both sides vowed and consummated.

VI.--ON THE LAGOONS.

The mornings are spent in study, sometimes among pictures, sometimes in the Marcian Library,
or again in those vast convent chambers of the Frari, where the archives of Venice load innumerable
shelves. The afternoons invite us to a further flight upon the water. Both sandolo and gondola
await our choice, and we may sail or row, according as the wind and inclination tempt us.

Yonder lies San Lazzaro, with the neat red buildings of the Armenian convent. The last oleander
blossoms shine rosy pink above its walls against the pure blue sky as we glide into the little
harbour. Boats piled with coal-black grapes block the landing-place, for the Padri are gathering
their vintage from the Lido, and their presses run with new wine. Eustace and I have not come
to revive memories of Byron--that curious patron saint of the Armenian colony--or to inspect
the printing-press, which issues books of little value for our studies. It is enough to pace
the terrace, and linger half an hour beneath the low broad arches of the alleys pleached with
vines, through which the domes and towers of Venice rise more beautiful by distance.

Malamocco lies considerably farther, and needs a full hour of stout rowing to reach it. Alighting
there, we cross the narrow strip of land, and find ourselves upon the huge sea-wall--block
piled on block--of Istrian stone in tiers and ranks, with cunning breathing-places for the
waves to wreak their fury on and foam their force away in fretful waste. The very existence
of Venice may be said to depend sometimes on these murazzi, which were finished at an immense
cost by the Republic in the days of its decadence. The enormous monoliths which compose them
had to be brought across the Adriatic in sailing vessels. Of all the Lidi, that of Malamocco
is the weakest; and here, if anywhere, the sea might effect an entrance into the lagoon. Our
gondoliers told us of some places where the murazzi were broken in a gale, or sciroccale, not
very long ago. Lying awake in Venice, when the wind blows hard, one hears the sea thundering
upon its sandy barrier, and blesses God for the murazzi. On such a night it happened once to
me to dream a dream of Venice overwhelmed by water. I saw the billows roll across the smooth
lagoon like a gigantic Eager. The Ducal Palace crumbled, and San Marco's domes went down. The
Campanile rocked and shivered like a reed. And all along the Grand Canal the palaces swayed
helpless, tottering to their fall, while boats piled high with men and women strove to stem
the tide, and save themselves from those impending ruins. It was a mad dream, born of the sea's
roar and Tintoretto's painting. But this afternoon no such visions are suggested. The sea sleeps,
and in the moist autumn air we break tall branches of the seeded yellowing samphire from hollows
of the rocks, and bear them homeward in a wayward bouquet mixed with cobs of Indian-corn.

Fusina is another point for these excursions. It lies at the mouth of the Canal di Brenta,
where the mainland ends in marsh and meadows, intersected by broad renes. In spring the ditches
bloom with fleurs-de-lys; in autumn they take sober colouring from lilac daisies and the delicate
sea-lavender. Scores of tiny plants are turning scarlet on the brown moist earth; and when
the sun goes down behind the Euganean hills, his crimson canopy of cloud, reflected on these
shallows, muddy shoals, and wilderness of matted weeds, converts the common earth into a fairyland
of fabulous dyes. Purple, violet, and rose are spread around us. In front stretches the lagoon,
tinted with a pale light from the east, and beyond this pallid mirror shines Venice--a long
low broken line, touched with the softest roseate flush. Ere we reach the Giudecca on our homeward
way, sunset has faded. The western skies have clad themselves in green, barred with dark fire-rimmed
clouds. The Euganean hills stand like stupendous pyramids, Egyptian, solemn, against a lemon
space on the horizon. The far reaches of the lagoons, the Alps, and islands assume those tones
of glowing lilac which are the supreme beauty of Venetian evening. Then, at last, we see the
first lamps glitter on the Zattere. The quiet of the night has come.

Words cannot be formed to express the endless varieties of Venetian sunset. The most magnificent
follow after wet stormy days, when the west breaks suddenly into a labyrinth of fire, when
chasms of clear turquoise heavens emerge, and horns of flame are flashed to the zenith, and
unexpected splendours scale the fretted clouds, step over step, stealing along the purple caverns
till the whole dome throbs. Or, again, after a fair day, a change of weather approaches, and
high, infinitely high, the skies are woven over with a web of half-transparent cirrus-clouds.
These in the after-glow blush crimson, and through their rifts the depth of heaven is of a
hard and gem-like blue, and all the water turns to rose beneath them. I remember one such evening
on the way back from Torcello. We were well out at sea between Mazzorbo and Murano. The ruddy
arches overhead were reflected without interruption in the waveless ruddy lake below. Our black
boat was the only dark spot in this sphere of splendour. We seemed to hang suspended; and such
as this, I fancied, must be the feeling of an insect caught in the heart of a fiery-petalled
rose. Yet not these melodramatic sunsets alone are beautiful. Even more exquisite, perhaps,
are the lagoons, painted in monochrome of greys, with just one touch of pink upon a western
cloud, scattered in ripples here and there on the waves below, reminding us that day has passed
and evening come. And beautiful again are the calm settings of fair weather, when sea and sky
alike are cheerful, and the topmost blades of the lagoon grass, peeping from the shallows,
glance like emeralds upon the surface. There is no deep stirring of the spirit in a symphony
of light and colour; but purity, peace, and freshness make their way into our hearts.

VII.--AT THE LIDO.

Of all these afternoon excursions, that to the Lido is most frequent. It has two points for
approach. The more distant is the little station of San Nicoletto, at the mouth of the Porto.
With an ebb-tide, the water of the lagoon runs past the mulberry gardens of this hamlet like
a river. There is here a grove of acacia-trees, shadowy and dreamy, above deep grass, which
even an Italian summer does not wither. The Riva is fairly broad, forming a promenade, where
one may conjure up the personages of a century ago. For San Nicoletto used to be a fashionable
resort before the other points of Lido had been occupied by pleasure-seekers. An artist even
now will select its old-world quiet, leafy shade, and prospect through the islands of Vignole
and Sant'Erasmo to snow-touched peaks of Antelao and Tofana, rather than the glare and bustle
and extended view of Venice which its rival Sant'Elisabetta offers.

But when we want a plunge into the Adriatic, or a stroll along smooth sands, or a breath of
genuine sea-breeze, or a handful of horned poppies from the dunes, or a lazy half-hour's contemplation
of a limitless horizon flecked with russet sails, then we seek Sant'Elisabetta. Our boat is
left at the landing-place. We saunter across the island and back again. Antonio and Francesco
wait and order wine, which we drink with them in the shade of the little osteria's wall.

A certain afternoon in May I well remember, for this visit to the Lido was marked by one of
those apparitions which are as rare as they are welcome to the artist's soul. I have always
held that in our modern life the only real equivalent for the antique mythopoeic sense--that
sense which enabled the Hellenic race to figure for themselves the powers of earth and air,
streams and forests, and the presiding genii of places, under the forms of living human beings,
is supplied by the appearance at some felicitous moment of a man or woman who impersonates
for our imagination the essence of the beauty that environs us. It seems, at such a fortunate
moment, as though we had been waiting for this revelation, although perchance the want of it
had not been previously felt. Our sensations and perceptions test themselves at the touchstone
of this living individuality. The keynote of the whole music dimly sounding in our ears is
struck. A melody emerges, clear in form and excellent in rhythm. The landscapes we have painted
on our brain, no longer lack their central figure. The life proper to the complex conditions
we have studied is discovered, and every detail, judged by this standard of vitality, falls
into its right relations.

I had been musing long that day and earnestly upon the mystery of the lagoons, their opaline
transparencies of air and water, their fretful risings and sudden subsidence into calm, the
treacherousness of their shoals, the sparkle and the splendour of their sunlight. I had asked
myself how would a Greek sculptor have personified the elemental deity of these salt-water
lakes, so different in quality from the Ægean or Ionian sea? What would he find distinctive
of their spirit? The Tritons of these shallows must be of other form and lineage than the fierce-eyed
youth who blows his conch upon the curled crest of a wave, crying aloud to his comrades, as
he bears the nymph away to caverns where the billows plunge in tideless instability.

