--"Hypothesis number two will have at least one point in its favor," interrupted as usual the
incorrigible Ardan; "it can't be worse than hypothesis number one!"

--"Insufficient," continued Barbican, laying down the law, "we shall rest forever motionless
on the dead point of the mutually neutralizing attractions."

"A pleasant prospect!" observed Ardan: "from the worst possible to no better! Isn't it, Barbican?"

"Nothing to say," was Barbican's only reply.

"Have you nothing to say either, Captain?" asked Ardan, beginning to be a little vexed at the
apparent apathy of his companions.

"Nothing whatever," replied M'Nicholl, giving point to his words by a despairing shake of his head.

"You don't mean surely that we're going to sit here, like bumps on a log, doing nothing until
it will be too late to attempt anything?"

"Nothing whatever can be done," said Barbican gloomily. "It is vain to struggle against the
impossible."

"Impossible! Where did you get that word? I thought the American schoolboys had cut it out
of their dictionaries!"

"That must have been since my time," said Barbican smiling grimly.

"It still sticks in a few old copies anyhow," drawled M'Nicholl drily, as he carefully wiped
his glasses.

"Well! it has no business here!" said Ardan. "What! A pair of live Yankees and a Frenchman,
of the nineteenth century too, recoil before an old fashioned word that hardly scared our grandfathers!"

"What can we do?"

"Correct the movement that's now running away with us!"

"Correct it?"

"Certainly, correct it! or modify it! or clap brakes on it! or take some advantage of it that
will be in our favor! What matters the exact term so you comprehend me?"

"Easy talking!"

"As easy doing!"

"Doing what? Doing how?"

"The what, and the how, is your business, not mine! What kind of an artillery man is he who
can't master his bullets? The gunner who cannot command his own gun should be rammed into it
head foremost himself and blown from its mouth! A nice pair of savants you are! There you sit
as helpless as a couple of babies, after having inveigled me--"

"Inveigled!!" cried Barbican and M'Nicholl starting to their feet in an instant; "WHAT!!!"

"Come, come!" went on Ardan, not giving his indignant friends time to utter a syllable; "I
don't want any recrimination! I'm not the one to complain! I'll even let up a little if you
consider the expression too strong! I'll even withdraw it altogether, and assert that the trip
delights me! that the Projectile is a thing after my own heart! that I was never in better
spirits than at the present moment! I don't complain, I only appeal to your own good sense,
and call upon you with all my voice to do everything possible, so that we may go somewhere,
since it appears we can't get to the Moon!"

"But that's exactly what we want to do ourselves, friend Ardan," said Barbican, endeavoring
to give an example of calmness to the impatient M'Nicholl; "the only trouble is that we have
not the means to do it."

"Can't we modify the Projectile's movement?"

"No."

"Nor diminish its velocity?"

"No."

"Not even by lightening it, as a heavily laden ship is lightened, by throwing cargo overboard?"

"What can we throw overboard? We have no ballast like balloon-men."

"I should like to know," interrupted M'Nicholl, "what would be the good of throwing anything
at all overboard. Any one with a particle of common sense in his head, can see that the lightened
Projectile should only move the quicker!"

"Slower, you mean," said Ardan.

"Quicker, I mean," replied the Captain.

"Neither quicker nor slower, dear friends," interposed Barbican, desirous to stop a quarrel;
"we are floating, you know, in an absolute void, where specific gravity never counts."

"Well then, my friends," said Ardan in a resigned tone that he evidently endeavored to render
calm, "since the worst is come to the worst, there is but one thing left for us to do!"

"What's that?" said the Captain, getting ready to combat some new piece of nonsense.

"To take our breakfast!" said the Frenchman curtly.

It was a resource he had often fallen back on in difficult conjunctures. Nor did it fail him now.

Though it was not a project that claimed to affect either the velocity or the direction of
the Projectile, still, as it was eminently practicable and not only unattended by no inconvenience
on the one hand but evidently fraught with many advantages on the other, it met with decided
and instantaneous success. It was rather an early hour for breakfast, two o'clock in the morning,
yet the meal was keenly relished. Ardan served it up in charming style and crowned the dessert
with a few bottles of a wine especially selected for the occasion from his own private stock.
It was a Tokay Imperial of 1863, the genuine Essenz, from Prince Esterhazy's own wine cellar,
and the best brain stimulant and brain clearer in the world, as every connoisseur knows.

It was near four o'clock in the morning when our travellers, now well fortified physically
and morally, once more resumed their observations with renewed courage and determination, and
with a system of recording really perfect in its arrangements.

Around the Projectile, they could still see floating most of the objects that had been dropped
out of the window. This convinced them that, during their revolution around the Moon, they
had not passed through any atmosphere; had anything of the kind been encountered, it would
have revealed its presence by its retarding effect on the different objects that now followed
close in the wake of the Projectile. One or two that were missing had been probably struck
and carried off by a fragment of the exploded bolide.

Of the Earth nothing as yet could be seen. She was only one day Old, having been New the previous
evening, and two days were still to elapse before her crescent would be sufficiently cleared
of the solar rays to be capable of performing her ordinary duty of serving as a time-piece
for the Selenites. For, as the reflecting reader need hardly be reminded, since she rotates
with perfect regularity on her axis, she can make such rotations visible to the Selenites by
bringing some particular point on her surface once every twenty-four hours directly over the
same lunar meridian.

Towards the Moon, the view though far less distinct, was still almost as dazzling as ever.
The radiant Queen of Night still glittered in all her splendor in the midst of the starry host,
whose pure white light seemed to borrow only additional purity and silvery whiteness from the
gorgeous contrast. On her disc, the "seas" were already beginning to assume the ashy tint so
well known to us on Earth, but the rest of her surface sparkled with all its former radiation,
Tycho glowing like a sun in the midst of the general resplendescence.

Barbican attempted in vain to obtain even a tolerable approximation of the velocity at which
the Projectile was now moving. He had to content himself with the knowledge that it was diminishing
at a uniform rate--of which indeed a little reflection on a well known law of Dynamics readily
convinced him. He had not much difficulty even in explaining the matter to his friends.

"Once admitting," said he, "the Projectile to describe an orbit round the Moon, that orbit
must of necessity be an ellipse. Every moving body circulating regularly around another, describes
an ellipse. Science has proved this incontestably. The satellites describe ellipses around
the planets, the planets around the Sun, the Sun himself describes an ellipse around the unknown
star that serves as a pivot for our whole solar system. How can our Baltimore Gun Club Projectile
then escape the universal law?

"Now what is the consequence of this law? If the orbit were a circle, the satellite would always
preserve the same distance from its primary, and its velocity should therefore be constant.
But the orbit being an ellipse, and the attracting body always occupying one of the foci, the
satellite must evidently lie nearer to this focus in one part of its orbit than in another.
The Earth when nearest to the Sun, is in her perihelion; when most distant, in her aphelion.
The Moon, with regard to the Earth, is similarly in her perigee, and her apogee. Analogous
expressions denoting the relations of the Projectile towards the Moon, would be periselene
and aposelene. At its aposelene the Projectile's velocity would have reached its minimum; at
the periselene, its maximum. As it is to the former point that we are now moving, clearly the
velocity must keep on diminishing until that point is reached. Then, if it does not die out
altogether, it must spring up again, and even accelerate as it reapproaches the Moon. Now the
great trouble is this: If the Aposelenetic point should coincide with the point of lunar attraction,
our velocity must certainly become nil, and the Projectile must remain relatively motionless
forever!"

"What do you mean by 'relatively motionless'?" asked M'Nicholl, who was carefully studying
the situation.

"I mean, of course, not absolutely motionless," answered Barbican; "absolute immobility is,
as you are well aware, altogether impossible, but motionless with regard to the Earth and the--"

"By Mahomet's jackass!" interrupted Ardan hastily, "I must say we're a precious set of imbéciles!"

"I don't deny it, dear friend," said Barbican quietly, notwithstanding the unceremonious interruption;
"but why do you say so just now?"

"Because though we are possessed of the power of retarding the velocity that takes us from
the Moon, we have never thought of employing it!"

"What do you mean?"

"Do you forget the rockets?"

"It's a fact!" cried M'Nicholl. "How have we forgotten them?"

"I'm sure I can't tell," answered Barbican, "unless, perhaps, because we had too many other
things to think about. Your thought, my dear friend, is a most happy one, and, of course, we
shall utilize it."

"When? How soon?"

"At the first favorable opportunity, not sooner. For you can see for yourselves, dear friends,"
he went on explaining, "that with the present obliquity of the Projectile with regard to the
lunar disc, a discharge of our rockets would be more likely to send us away from the Moon than
towards her. Of course, you are both still desirous of reaching the Moon?"

"Most emphatically so!"

"Then by reserving our rockets for the last chance, we may possibly get there after all. In
consequence of some force, to me utterly inexplicable, the Projectile still seems disposed
to turn its base towards the Earth. In fact, it is likely enough that at the neutral point
its cone will point vertically to the Moon. That being the moment when its velocity will most
probably be nil, it will also be the moment for us to discharge our rockets, and the possibility
is that we may force a direct fall on the lunar disc."

"Good!" cried Ardan, clapping hands.

"Why didn't we execute this grand manoeuvre the first time we reached the neutral point?" asked
M'Nicholl a little crustily.

"It would be useless," answered Barbican; "the Projectile's velocity at that time, as you no
doubt remember, not only did not need rockets, but was actually too great to be affected by them."

"True!" chimed in Ardan; "a wind of four miles an hour is very little use to a steamer going ten."

"That assertion," cried M'Nicholl, "I am rather dis--"

--"Dear friends," interposed Barbican, his pale face beaming and his clear voice ringing with
the new excitement; "let us just now waste no time in mere words. We have one more chance,
perhaps a great one. Let us not throw it away! We have been on the brink of despair--"

--"Beyond it!" cried Ardan.

--"But I now begin to see a possibility, nay, a very decided probability, of our being able
to attain the great end at last!"

"Bravo!" cried Ardan.

"Hurrah!" cried M'Nicholl.

"Yes! my brave boys!" cried Barbican as enthusiastically as his companions; "all's not over
yet by a long shot!"

What had brought about this great revulsion in the spirits of our bold adventurers? The breakfast?
Prince Esterhazy's Tokay? The latter, most probably. What had become of the resolutions they
had discussed so ably and passed so decidedly a few hours before? Was the Moon inhabited? No!
Was the Moon habitable? No! Yet in the face of all this--or rather as coolly as if such subjects
had never been alluded to--here were the reckless scientists actually thinking of nothing but
how to work heaven and earth in order to get there!

One question more remained to be answered before they played their last trump, namely: "At
what precise moment would the Projectile reach the neutral point?"

To this Barbican had very little trouble in finding an answer. The time spent in proceeding
from the south pole to the dead point being evidently equal to the time previously spent in
proceeding from the dead point to the north pole--to ascertain the former, he had only to calculate
the latter. This was easily done. To refer to his notes, to check off the different rates of
velocity at which they had readied the different parallels, and to turn these rates into time,
required only a very few minutes careful calculation. The Projectile then was to reach the
point of neutral attraction at one o'clock in the morning of December 8th. At the present time,
it was five o'clock in the morning of the 7th; therefore, if nothing unforeseen should occur
in the meantime, their great and final effort was to be made about twenty hours later.

The rockets, so often alluded to as an idea of Ardan's and already fully described, had been
originally provided to break the violence of the Projectile's fall on the lunar surface; but
now the dauntless travellers were about to employ them for a purpose precisely the reverse.
In any case, having been put in proper order for immediate use, nothing more now remained to
be done till the moment should come for firing them off.

"Now then, friends," said M'Nicholl, rubbing his eyes but hardly able to keep them open, "I'm
not over fond of talking, but this time I think I may offer a slight proposition."

"We shall be most happy to entertain it, my dear Captain," said Barbican.

"I propose we lie down and take a good nap."

"Good gracious!" protested Ardan; "What next?"

"We have not had a blessed wink for forty hours," continued the Captain; "a little sleep would
recuperate us wonderfully."

"No sleep now!" exclaimed Ardan.

"Every man to his taste!" said M'Nicholl; "mine at present is certainly to turn in!" and suiting
the action to the word, he coiled himself on the sofa, and in a few minutes his deep regular
breathing showed his slumber to be as tranquil as an infant's.

Barbican looked at him in a kindly way, but only for a very short time; his eyes grew so filmy
that he could not keep them open any longer. "The Captain," he said, "may not be without his
little faults, but for good practical sense he is worth a ship-load like you and me, Ardan.
By Jove, I'm going to imitate him, and, friend Michael, you might do worse!"

In a short time he was as unconscious as the Captain.

Ardan gazed on the pair for a few minutes, and then began to feel quite lonely. Even his animals
were fast asleep. He tried to look out, but observing without having anybody to listen to your
observations, is dull work. He looked again at the sleeping pair, and then he gave in.

"It can't be denied," he muttered, slowly nodding his head, "that even your practical men sometimes
stumble on a good idea."

Then curling up his long legs, and folding his arms under his head, his restless brain was
soon forming fantastic shapes for itself in the mysterious land of dreams.

But his slumbers were too much disturbed to last long. After an uneasy, restless, unrefreshing
attempt at repose, he sat up at about half-past seven o'clock, and began stretching himself,
when he found his companions already awake and discussing the situation in whispers.

The Projectile, they were remarking, was still pursuing its way from the Moon, and turning
its conical point more and more in her direction. This latter phenomenon, though as puzzling
as ever, Barbican regarded with decided pleasure: the more directly the conical summit pointed
to the Moon at the exact moment, the more directly towards her surface would the rockets communicate
their reactionary motion.

Nearly seventeen hours, however, were still to elapse before that moment, that all important
moment, would arrive.

The time began to drag. The excitement produced by the Moon's vicinity had died out. Our travellers,
though as daring and as confident as ever, could not help feeling a certain sinking of heart
at the approach of the moment for deciding either alternative of their doom in this world--their
fall to the Moon, or their eternal imprisonment in a changeless orbit. Barbican and M'Nicholl
tried to kill time by revising their calculations and putting their notes in order; Ardan,
by feverishly walking back and forth from window to window, and stopping for a second or two
to throw a nervous glance at the cold, silent and impassive Moon.

Now and then reminiscences of our lower world would flit across their brains. Visions of the
famous Gun Club rose up before them the oftenest, with their dear friend Marston always the
central figure. What was his bustling, honest, good-natured, impetuous heart at now? Most probably
he was standing bravely at his post on the Rocky Mountains, his eye glued to the great Telescope,
his whole soul peering through its tube. Had he seen the Projectile before it vanished behind
the Moon's north pole? Could he have caught a glimpse of it at its reappearance? If so, could
he have concluded it to be the satellite of a satellite! Could Belfast have announced to the
world such a startling piece of intelligence? Was that all the Earth was ever to know of their
great enterprise? What were the speculations of the Scientific World upon the subject? etc., etc.

In listless questions and desultory conversation of this kind the day slowly wore away, without
the occurrence of any incident whatever to relieve its weary monotony. Midnight arrived, December
the seventh was dead. As Ardan said: "Le Sept Decembre est mort; vive le Huit!" In one hour
more, the neutral point would be reached. At what velocity was the Projectile now moving? Barbican
could not exactly tell, but he felt quite certain that no serious error had slipped into his
calculations. At one o'clock that night, nil the velocity was to be, and nil it would be!

Another phenomenon, in any case, was to mark the arrival of the exact moment. At the dead point,
the two attractions, terrestrial and lunar, would again exactly counterbalance each other.
For a few seconds, objects would no longer possess the slightest weight. This curious circumstance,
which had so much surprised and amused the travellers at its first occurrence, was now to appear
again as soon as the conditions should become identical. During these few seconds then would
come the moment for striking the decisive blow.

They could soon notice the gradual approach of this important instant. Objects began to weigh
sensibly lighter. The conical point of the Projectile had become almost directly under the
centre of the lunar surface. This gladdened the hearts of the bold adventurers. The recoil
of the rockets losing none of its power by oblique action, the chances pronounced decidedly
in their favor. Now, only supposing the Projectile's velocity to be absolutely annihilated
at the dead point, the slightest force directing it towards the Moon would be certain to cause
it finally to fall on her surface.

Supposing!--but supposing the contrary!

--Even these brave adventurers had not the courage to suppose the contrary!

"Five minutes to one o'clock," said M'Nicholl, his eyes never quitting his watch.

"Ready?" asked Barbican of Ardan.

"Ay, ay, sir!" was Ardan's reply, as he made sure that the electric apparatus to discharge
the rockets was in perfect working order.

"Wait till I give the word," said Barbican, pulling out his chronometer.

The moment was now evidently close at hand. The objects lying around had no weight. The travellers
felt their bodies to be as buoyant as a hydrogen balloon. Barbican let go his chronometer,
but it kept its place as firmly in empty space before his eyes as if it had been nailed to
the wall!

"One o'clock!" cried Barbican in a solemn tone.

Ardan instantly touched the discharging key of the little electric battery. A dull, dead, distant
report was immediately heard, communicated probably by the vibration of the Projectile to the
internal air. But Ardan saw through the window a long thin flash, which vanished in a second.
At the same moment, the three friends became instantaneously conscious of a slight shock experienced
by the Projectile.

They looked at each other, speechless, breathless, for about as long as it would take you to
count five: the silence so intense that they could easily hear the pulsation of their hearts.
Ardan was the first to break it.

"Are we falling or are we not?" he asked in a loud whisper.

"We're not!" answered M'Nicholl, also hardly speaking above his breath. "The base of the Projectile
is still turned away as far as ever from the Moon!"

Barbican, who had been looking out of the window, now turned hastily towards his companions.
His face frightened them. He was deadly pale; his eyes stared, and his lips were painfully
contracted.

"We are falling!" he shrieked huskily.

"Towards the Moon?" exclaimed his companions.

"No!" was the terrible reply. "Towards the Earth!"

"Sacré!" cried Ardan, as usually letting off his excitement in French.

"Fire and fury!" cried M'Nicholl, completely startled out of his habitual sang froid.

"Thunder and lightning!" swore the usually serene Barbican, now completely stunned by the blow.
"I had never expected this!"

Ardan was the first to recover from the deadening shock: his levity came to his relief.

"First impressions are always right," he muttered philosophically. "The moment I set eyes on
the confounded thing, it reminded me of the Bastille; it is now proving its likeness to a worse
place: easy enough to get into, but no redemption out of it!"

There was no longer any doubt possible on the subject. The terrible fall had begun. The Projectile
had retained velocity enough not only to carry it beyond the dead point, but it was even able
to completely overcome the feeble resistance offered by the rockets. It was all clear now.
The same velocity that had carried the Projectile beyond the neutral point on its way to the
Moon, was still swaying it on its return to the Earth. A well known law of motion required
that, in the path which it was now about to describe, it should repass, on its return through
all the points through which it had already passed during its departure.

No wonder that our friends were struck almost senseless when the fearful fall they were now
about to encounter, flashed upon them in all its horror. They were to fall a clear distance
of nearly 200 thousand miles! To lighten or counteract such a descent, the most powerful springs,
checks, rockets, screens, deadeners, even if the whole Earth were engaged in their construction--would
produce no more effect than so many spiderwebs. According to a simple law in Ballistics, the
Projectile was to strike the Earth with a velocity equal to that by which it had been animated
when issuing from the mouth of the Columbiad--a velocity of at least seven miles a second!

To have even a faint idea of this enormous velocity, let us make a little comparison. A body
falling from the summit of a steeple a hundred and fifty feet high, dashes against the pavement
with a velocity of fifty five miles an hour. Falling from the summit of St. Peter's, it strikes
the earth at the rate of 300 miles an hour, or five times quicker than the rapidest express
train. Falling from the neutral point, the Projectile should strike the Earth with a velocity
of more than 25,000 miles an hour!

"We are lost!" said M'Nicholl gloomily, his philosophy yielding to despair.

"One consolation, boys!" cried Ardan, genial to the last. "We shall die together!"

"If we die," said Barbican calmly, but with a kind of suppressed enthusiasm, "it will be only
to remove to a more extended sphere of our investigations. In the other world, we can pursue
our inquiries under far more favorable auspices. There the wonders of our great Creator, clothed
in brighter light, shall be brought within a shorter range. We shall require no machine, nor
projectile, nor material contrivance of any kind to be enabled to contemplate them in all their
grandeur and to appreciate them fully and intelligently. Our souls, enlightened by the emanations
of the Eternal Wisdom, shall revel forever in the blessed rays of Eternal Knowledge!"

"A grand view to take of it, dear friend Barbican;" replied Ardan, "and a consoling one too.
The privilege of roaming at will through God's great universe should make ample amends for
missing the Moon!"

M'Nicholl fixed his eyes on Barbican admiringly, feebly muttering with hardly moving lips:

"Grit to the marrow! Grit to the marrow!"

Barbican, head bowed in reverence, arms folded across his breast, meekly and uncomplainingly
uttered with sublime resignation:

"Thy will be done!"

"Amen!" answered his companions, in a loud and fervent whisper.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were soon falling through the boundless regions of space with inconceivable rapidity!

CHAPTER XX.

OFF THE PACIFIC COAST.

"Well, Lieutenant, how goes the sounding?"

"Pretty lively, Captain; we're nearly through;" replied the Lieutenant. "But it's a tremendous
depth so near land. We can't be more than 250 miles from the California coast."

"The depression certainly is far deeper than I had expected," observed Captain Bloomsbury.
"We have probably lit on a submarine valley channelled out by the Japanese Current."

"The Japanese Current, Captain?"

"Certainly; that branch of it which breaks on the western shores of North America and then
flows southeast towards the Isthmus of Panama."

"That may account for it, Captain," replied young Brownson; "at least, I hope it does, for
then we may expect the valley to get shallower as we leave the land. So far, there's no sign
of a Telegraphic Plateau in this quarter of the globe."

"Probably not, Brownson. How is the line now?"

"We have paid out 3500 fathoms already, Captain, but, judging from the rate the reel goes at,
we are still some distance from bottom."

As he spoke, he pointed to a tall derrick temporarily rigged up at the stern of the vessel
for the purpose of working the sounding apparatus, and surrounded by a group of busy men. Through
a block pulley strongly lashed to the derrick, a stout cord of the best Italian hemp, wound
off a large reel placed amidships, was now running rapidly and with a slight whirring noise.

"I hope it's not the 'cup-lead' you are using, Brownson?" said the Captain, after a few minutes
observation.

"Oh no, Captain, certainly not," replied the Lieutenant. "It's only Brooke's apparatus that
is of any use in such depths."

"Clever fellow that Brooke," observed the Captain; "served with him under Maury. His detachment
of the weight is really the starting point for every new improvement in sounding gear. The
English, the French, and even our own, are nothing but modifications of that fundamental principle.
Exceedingly clever fellow!"

"Bottom!" sang out one of the men standing near the derrick and watching the operations.

The Captain and the Lieutenant immediately advanced to question him.

"What's the depth, Coleman?" asked the Lieutenant.

"21,762 feet," was the prompt reply, which Brownson immediately inscribed in his note-book,
handing a duplicate to the Captain.

"All right, Lieutenant," observed the Captain, after a moment's inspection of the figures.
"While I enter it in the log, you haul the line aboard. To do so, I need hardly remind you,
is a task involving care and patience. In spite of all our gallant little donkey engine can
do, it's a six hours job at least. Meanwhile, the Chief Engineer had better give orders for
firing up, so that we may be ready to start as soon as you're through. It's now close on to
four bells, and with your permission I shall turn in. Let me be called at three. Good night!"

"Goodnight, Captain!" replied Brownson, who spent the next two hours pacing backward and forward
on the quarter deck, watching the hauling in of the sounding line, and occasionally casting
a glance towards all quarters of the sky.

It was a glorious night. The innumerable stars glittered with the brilliancy of the purest
gems. The ship, hove to in order to take the soundings, swung gently on the faintly heaving
ocean breast. You felt you were in a tropical clime, for, though no breath fanned your cheek,
your senses easily detected the delicious odor of a distant garden of sweet roses. The sea
sparkled with phosphorescence. Not a sound was heard except the panting of the hard-worked
little donkey-engine and the whirr of the line as it came up taut and dripping from the ocean
depths. The lamp, hanging from the mast, threw a bright glare on deck, presenting the strongest
contrast with the black shadows, firm and motionless as marble. The 11th day of December was
now near its last hour.

The steamer was the Susquehanna, a screw, of the United States Navy, 4,000 in tonnage, and
carrying 20 guns. She had been detached to take soundings between the Pacific coast and the
Sandwich Islands, the initiatory movement towards laying down an Ocean Cable, which the Pacific
Cable Company contemplated finally extending to China. She lay just now a few hundred miles
directly south of San Diego, an old Spanish town in southwestern California, and the point
which is expected to be the terminus of the great Texas and Pacific Railroad.

The Captain, John Bloomsbury by name, but better known as 'High-Low Jack' from his great love
of that game--the only one he was ever known to play--was a near relation of our old friend
Colonel Bloomsbury of the Baltimore Gun Club. Of a good Kentucky family, and educated at Annapolis,
he had passed his meridian without ever being heard of, when suddenly the news that he had
run the gauntlet in a little gunboat past the terrible batteries of Island Number Ten, amidst
a perfect storm of shell, grape and canister discharged at less than a hundred yards distance,
burst on the American nation on the sixth of April, 1862, and inscribed his name at once in
deep characters on the list of the giants of the Great War. But war had never been his vocation.
With the return of peace, he had sought and obtained employment on the Western Coast Survey,
where every thing he did he looked on as a labor of love. The Sounding Expedition he had particularly
coveted, and, once entered upon it, he discharged his duties with characteristic energy.

He could not have had more favorable weather than the present for a successful performance
of the nice and delicate investigations of sounding. His vessel had even been fortunate enough
to have lain altogether out of the track of the terrible wind storm already alluded to, which,
starting from somewhere southwest of the Sierra Madre, had swept away every vestige of mist
from the summits of the Rocky Mountains and, by revealing the Moon in all her splendor, had
enabled Belfast to send the famous despatch announcing that he had seen the Projectile. Every
feature of the expedition was, in fact, advancing so favorably that the Captain expected to
be able, in a month or two, to submit to the P.C. Company a most satisfactory report of his labors.

Cyrus W. Field, the life and soul of the whole enterprise, flushed with honors still in full
bloom (the Atlantic Telegraph Cable having been just laid), could congratulate himself with
good reason on having found a treasure in the Captain. High-Low Jack was the congenial spirit
by whose active and intelligent aid he promised himself the pleasure of seeing before long
the whole Pacific Ocean covered with a vast reticulation of electric cables. The practical
part, therefore, being in such safe hands, Mr. Field could remain with a quiet conscience in
Washington, New York or London, seeing after the financial part of the grand undertaking, worthy
of the Nineteenth Century, worthy of the Great Republic, and eminently worthy of the illustrious
CYRUS W. himself!

As already mentioned, the Susquehanna lay a few hundred miles south of San Diego, or, to be
more accurate, in 27° 7' North Latitude and 118° 37' West Longitude (Greenwich).

It was now a little past midnight. The Moon, in her last quarter, was just beginning to peep
over the eastern horizon. Lieutenant Brownson, leaving the quarter deck, had gone to the forecastle,
where he found a crowd of officers talking together earnestly and directing their glasses towards
her disc. Even here, out on the ocean, the Queen of the night, was as great an object of attraction
as on the North American Continent generally, where, that very night and that very hour, at
least 40 million pairs of eyes were anxiously gazing at her. Apparently forgetful that even
the very best of their glasses could no more see the Projectile than angulate Sirius, the officers
held them fast to their eyes for five minutes at a time, and then took them away only to talk
with remarkable fluency on what they had not discovered.

"Any sign of them yet, gentlemen?" asked Brownson gaily as he joined the group. "It's now pretty
near time for them to put in an appearance. They're gone ten days I should think."

"They're there, Lieutenant! not a doubt of it!" cried a young midshipman, fresh from Annapolis,
and of course "throughly posted" in the latest revelations of Astronomy. "I feel as certain
of their being there as I am of our being here on the forecastle of the Susquehanna!"

"I must agree with you of course, Mr. Midshipman," replied Brownson with a slight smile; "I
have no grounds whatever for contradicting you."

"Neither have I," observed another officer, the surgeon of the vessel. "The Projectile was
to have reached the Moon when at her full, which was at midnight on the 5th. To-day was the
11th. This gives them six days of clear light--time enough in all conscience not only to land
safely but to install themselves quite comfortably in their new home. In fact, I see them there
already--"

"In my mind's eye, Horatio!" laughed one of the group. "Though the Doc wears glasses, he can
see more than any ten men on board."

--"Already"--pursued the Doctor, heedless of the interruption. "Scene, a stony valley near
a Selenite stream; the Projectile on the right, half buried in volcanic scoriae, but apparently
not much the worse for the wear; ring mountains, craters, sharp peaks, etc. all around; old
MAC discovered taking observations with his levelling staff; BARBICAN perched on the summit
of a sharp pointed rock, writing up his note-book; ARDAN, eye-glass on nose, hat under arm,
legs apart, puffing at his Imperador, like a--"

--"A locomotive!" interrupted the young Midshipman, his excitable imagination so far getting
the better of him as to make him forget his manners. He had just finished Locke's famous MOON
HOAX, and his brain was still full of its pictures. "In the background," he went on, "can be
seen thousands of Vespertiliones-Homines or Man-Bats, in all the various attitudes of curiosity,
alarm, or consternation; some of them peeping around the rocks, some fluttering from peak to
peak, all gibbering a language more or less resembling the notes of birds. Enter LUNATICO,
King of the Selenites--"

"Excuse us, Mr. Midshipman," interrupted Brownson with an easy smile, "Locke's authority may
have great weight among the young Middies at Annapolis, but it does not rank very high at present
in the estimation of practical scientists." This rebuff administered to the conceited little
Midshipman, a rebuff which the Doctor particularly relished, Brownson continued: "Gentlemen,
we certainly know nothing whatever regarding our friends' fate; guessing gives no information.
How we ever are to hear from the Moon until we are connected with it by a lunar cable, I can't
even imagine. The probability is that we shall never--"

"Excuse me, Lieutenant," interrupted the unrebuffed little Midshipman; "Can't Barbican write?"

A shout of derisive comments greeted this question.

"Certainly he can write, and send his letter by the Pony Express!" cried one.

"A Postal Card would be cheaper!" cried another.

"The New York Herald will send a reporter after it!" was the exclamation of a third.

"Keep cool, just keep cool, gentlemen," persisted the little Midshipman, not in the least abashed
by the uproarious hilarity excited by his remarks. "I asked if Barbican couldn't write. In
that question I see nothing whatever to laugh at. Can't a man write without being obliged to
send his letters?"

"This is all nonsense," said the Doctor. "What's the use of a man writing to you if he can't
send you what he writes?"

"What's the use of his sending it to you if he can have it read without that trouble?" answered
the little Midshipman in a confident tone. "Is there not a telescope at Long's Peak? Doesn't
it bring the Moon within a few miles of the Rocky Mountains, and enable us to see on her surface,
objects as small as nine feet in diameter? Well! What's to prevent Barbican and his friends
from constructing a gigantic alphabet? If they write words of even a few hundred yards and
sentences a mile or two long, what is to prevent us from reading them? Catch the idea now, eh?"

They did catch the idea, and heartily applauded the little Middy for his smartness. Even the
Doctor saw a certain kind of merit in it, and Brownson acknowledged it to be quite feasible.
In fact, expanding on it, the Lieutenant assured his hearers that, by means of large parabolic
reflectors, luminous groups of rays could be dispatched from the Earth, of sufficient brightness
to establish direct communication even with Venus or Mars, where these rays would be quite
as visible as the planet Neptune is from the Earth. He even added that those brilliant points
of light, which have been quite frequently observed in Mars and Venus, are perhaps signals
made to the Earth by the inhabitants of these planets. He concluded, however, by observing
that, though we might by these means succeed in obtaining news from the Moon, we could not
possibly send any intelligence back in return, unless indeed the Selenites had at their disposal
optical instruments at least as good as ours.

All agreed that this was very true, and, as is generally the case when one keeps all the talk
to himself, the conversation now assumed so serious a turn that for some time it was hardly
worth recording.

At last the Chief Engineer, excited by some remark that had been made, observed with much earnestness:

"You may say what you please, gentlemen, but I would willingly give my last dollar to know
what has become of those brave men! Have they done anything? Have they seen anything? I hope
they have. But I should dearly like to know. Ever so little success would warrant a repetition
of the great experiment. The Columbiad is still to the good in Florida, as it will be for many
a long day. There are millions of men to day as curious as I am upon the subject. Therefore
it will be only a question of mere powder and bullets if a cargo of visitors is not sent to
the Moon every time she passes our zenith.

"Marston would be one of the first of them," observed Brownson, lighting his cigar.

"Oh, he would have plenty of company!" cried the Midshipman. "I should be delighted to go if
he'd only take me."

"No doubt you would, Mr. Midshipman," said Brownson, "the wise men, you know, are not all dead
yet."

"Nor the fools either, Lieutenant," growled old Frisby, the fourth officer, getting tired of
the conversation.

"There is no question at all about it," observed another; "every time a Projectile started,
it would take off as many as it could carry."

"I wish it would only start often enough to improve the breed!" growled old Frisby.

"I have no doubt whatever," added the Chief Engineer, "that the thing would get so fashionable
at last that half the inhabitants of the Earth would take a trip to the Moon."

"I should limit that privilege strictly to some of our friends in Washington," said old Frisby,
whose temper had been soured probably by a neglect to recognize his long services; "and most
of them I should by all means insist on sending to the Moon. Every month I would ram a whole
raft of them into the Columbiad, with a charge under them strong enough to blow them all to
the--But--Hey!--what in creation's that?"

Whilst the officer was speaking, his companions had suddenly caught a sound in the air which
reminded them immediately of the whistling scream of a Lancaster shell. At first they thought
the steam was escaping somewhere, but, looking upwards, they saw that the strange noise proceeded
from a ball of dazzling brightness, directly over their heads, and evidently falling towards
them with tremendous velocity. Too frightened to say a word, they could only see that in its
light the whole ship blazed like fireworks, and the whole sea glittered like a silver lake.
Quicker than tongue can utter, or mind can conceive, it flashed before their eyes for a second,
an enormous bolide set on fire by friction with the atmosphere, and gleaming in its white heat
like a stream of molten iron gushing straight from the furnace. For a second only did they
catch its flash before their eyes; then striking the bowsprit of the vessel, which it shivered
into a thousand pieces, it vanished in the sea in an instant with a hiss, a scream, and a roar,
all equally indescribable. For some time the utmost confusion reigned on deck. With eyes too
dazzled to see, ears still ringing with the frightful combination of unearthly sounds, faces
splashed with floods of sea water, and noses stifled with clouds of scalding steam, the crew
of the Susquehanna could hardly realize that their marvellous escape by a few feet from instant
and certain destruction was an accomplished fact, not a frightful dream. They were still engaged
in trying to open their eyes and to get the hot water out of their ears, when they suddenly
heard the trumpet voice of Captain Bloomsbury crying, as he stood half dressed on the head
of the cabin stairs:

"What's up, gentlemen? In heaven's name, what's up?"

The little Midshipman had been knocked flat by the concussion and stunned by the uproar. But
before any body else could reply, his voice was heard, clear and sharp, piercing the din like
an arrow:

"It's THEY, Captain! Didn't I tell you so?"

CHAPTER XXI.

NEWS FOR MARSTON!

In a few minutes, consciousness had restored order on board the Susquehanna, but the excitement
was as great as ever. They had escaped by a hairsbreadth the terrible fate of being both burned
and drowned without a moment's warning, without a single soul being left alive to tell the
fatal tale; but on this neither officer nor man appeared to bestow the slightest thought. They
were wholly engrossed with the terrible catastrophe that had befallen the famous adventurers.
What was the loss of the Susquehanna and all it contained, in comparison to the loss experienced
by the world at large in the terrible tragic dénouement just witnessed? The worst had now come
to the worst. At last the long agony was over forever. Those three gallant men, who had not
only conceived but had actually executed the grandest and most daring enterprise of ancient
or modern times, had paid by the most fearful of deaths, for their sublime devotion to science
and their unselfish desire to extend the bounds of human knowledge! Before such a reflection
as this, all other considerations were at once reduced to proportions of the most absolute
insignificance.

But was the death of the adventurers so very certain after all? Hope is hard to kill. Consciousness
had brought reflection, reflection doubt, and doubt had resuscitated hope.

"It's they!" had exclaimed the little Midshipman, and the cry had thrilled every heart on board
as with an electric shock. Everybody had instantly understood it. Everybody had felt it to
be true. Nothing could be more certain than that the meteor which had just flashed before their
eyes was the famous projectile of the Baltimore Gun Club. Nothing could be truer than that
it contained the three world renowned men and that it now lay in the black depths of the Pacific
Ocean.

But here opinions began to diverge. Some courageous breasts soon refused to accept the prevalent
idea.

"They're killed by the shock!" cried the crowd.

"Killed?" exclaimed the hopeful ones; "Not a bit of it! The water here is deep enough to break
a fall twice as great."

"They're smothered for want of air!" exclaimed the crowd.

"Their stock may not be run out yet!" was the ready reply. "Their air apparatus is still on hand."

"They're burned to a cinder!" shrieked the crowd.

"They had not time to be burned!" answered the Band of Hope. "The Projectile did not get hot
till it reached the atmosphere, through which it tore in a few seconds."

"If they're neither burned nor smothered nor killed by the shock, they're sure to be drowned!"
persisted the crowd, with redoubled lamentations.

"Fish 'em up first!" cried the Hopeful Band. "Come! Let's lose no time! Let's fish 'em up at once!"

The cries of Hope prevailed. The unanimous opinion of a council of the officers hastily summoned
together by the Captain was to go to work and fish up the Projectile with the least possible
delay. But was such an operation possible? asked a doubter. Yes! was the overwhelming reply;
difficult, no doubt, but still quite possible. Certainly, however, such an attempt was not
immediately possible as the Susquehanna had no machinery strong enough or suitable enough for
a piece of work involving such a nicety of detailed operations, not to speak of its exceeding
difficulty. The next unanimous decision, therefore, was to start the vessel at once for the
nearest port, whence they could instantly telegraph the Projectile's arrival to the Baltimore
Gun Club.

But what was the nearest port? A serious question, to answer which in a satisfactory manner
the Captain had to carefully examine his sailing charts. The neighboring shores of the California
Peninsula, low and sandy, were absolutely destitute of good harbors. San Diego, about a day's
sail directly north, possessed an excellent harbor, but, not yet having telegraphic communication
with the rest of the Union, it was of course not to be thought of. San Pedro Bay was too open
to be approached in winter. The Santa Barbara Channel was liable to the same objection, not
to mention the trouble often caused by kelp and wintry fogs. The bay of San Luis Obispo was
still worse in every respect; having no islands to act as a breakwater, landing there in winter
was often impossible. The harbor of the picturesque old town of Monterey was safe enough, but
some uncertainty regarding sure telegraphic communications with San Francisco, decided the
council not to venture it. Half Moon Bay, a little to the north, would be just as risky, and
in moments like the present when every minute was worth a day, no risk involving the slightest
loss of time could be ventured.

Evidently, therefore, the most advisable plan was to sail directly for the bay of San Francisco,
the Golden Gate, the finest harbor on the Pacific Coast and one of the safest in the world.
Here telegraphic communication with all parts of the Union was assured beyond a doubt. San
Francisco, about 750 miles distant, the Susquehanna could probably make in three days; with
a little increased pressure, possibly in two days and a-half. The sooner then she started,
the better.

The fires were soon in full blast. The vessel could get under weigh at once. In fact, nothing
delayed immediate departure but the consideration that two miles of sounding line were still
to be hauled up from the ocean depths. Rut the Captain, after a moment's thought, unwilling
that any more time should be lost, determined to cut it. Then marking its position by fastening
its end to a buoy, he could haul it up at his leisure on his return.

"Besides," said he, "the buoy will show us the precise spot where the Projectile fell."

"As for that, Captain," observed Brownson, "the exact spot has been carefully recorded already:
27° 7' north latitude by 41° 37' west longitude, reckoning from the meridian of Washington."

"All right, Lieutenant," said the Captain curtly. "Cut the line!"

A large cone-shaped metal buoy, strengthened still further by a couple of stout spars to which
it was securely lashed, was soon rigged up on deck, whence, being hoisted overboard, the whole
apparatus was carefully lowered to the surface of the sea. By means of a ring in the small
end of the buoy, the latter was then solidly attached to the part of the sounding line that
still remained in the water, and all possible precautions were taken to diminish the danger
of friction, caused by the contrary currents, tidal waves, and the ordinary heaving swells
of ocean.

It was now a little after three o'clock in the morning. The Chief Engineer announced everything
to be in perfect readiness for starting. The Captain gave the signal, directing the pilot to
steer straight for San Francisco, north-north by west. The waters under the stern began to
boil and foam; the ship very soon felt and yielded to the power that animated her; and in a
few minutes she was making at least twelve knots an hour. Her sailing powers were somewhat
higher than this, but it was necessary to be careful in the neighborhood of such a dangerous
coast as that of California.

Seven hundred and fifty miles of smooth waters presented no very difficult task to a fast traveller
like the Susquehanna, yet it was not till two days and a-half afterwards that she sighted the
Golden Gate. As usual, the coast was foggy; neither Point Lobos nor Point Boneta could be seen.
But Captain Bloomsbury, well acquainted with every portion of this coast, ran as close along
the southern shore as he dared, the fog-gun at Point Boneta safely directing his course. Here
expecting to be able to gain a few hours time by signalling to the outer telegraph station
on Point Lobos, he had caused to be painted on a sail in large black letters: "THE MOONMEN
ARE BACK!" but the officers in attendance, though their fog-horn could be easily heard--the
distance not being quite two miles--were unfortunately not able to see it. Perhaps they did
see it, but feared a hoax.

Giving the Fort Point a good wide berth, the Susquehanna found the fog gradually clearing away,
and by half-past three the passengers, looking under it, enjoyed the glorious view of the Contra
Costa mountains east of San Francisco, which had obtained for this entrance the famous and
well deserved appellation of the Golden Gate. In another half hour, they had doubled Black
Point, and were lying safely at anchor between the islands of Alcatraz and Yerba Buena. In
less than five minutes afterwards the Captain was quickly lowered into his gig, and eight stout
pairs of arms were pulling him rapidly to shore.

The usual crowd of idlers had collected that evening on the summit of Telegraph Hill to enjoy
the magnificent view, which for variety, extent, beauty and grandeur, is probably unsurpassed
on earth. Of course, the inevitable reporter, hot after an item, was not absent. The Susquehanna
had hardly crossed the bar, when they caught sight of her. A government vessel entering the
bay at full speed, is something to look at even in San Francisco. Even during the war, it would
be considered rather unusual. But they soon remarked that her bowsprit was completely broken
off. Very unusual. Something decidedly is the matter. See! The vessel is hardly anchored when
the Captain leaves her and makes for Megg's Wharf at North Point as hard as ever his men can
pull! Something must be the matter--and down the steep hill they all rush as fast as ever their
legs can carry them to the landing at Megg's Wharf.

The Captain could hardly force his way through the dense throng, but he made no attempt whatever
to gratify their ill dissembled curiosity.

"Carriage!" he cried, in a voice seldom heard outside the din of battle.

In a moment seventeen able-bodied cabmen were trying to tear him limb from limb.

"To the telegraph office! Like lightning!" were his stifled mutterings, as he struggled in
the arms of the Irish giant who had at last succeeded in securing him.

"To the telegraph office!" cried most of the crowd, running after him like fox hounds, but
the more knowing ones immediately began questioning the boatmen in the Captain's gig. These
honest fellows, nothing loth to tell all that they knew and more that they invented, soon had
the satisfaction of finding themselves the centrepoint of a wonder stricken audience, greedily
swallowing up every item of the extraordinary news and still hungrily gaping for more.

By this time, however, an important dispatch was flying east, bearing four different addresses:
To the Secretary of the U.S. Navy, Washington; To Colonel Joseph Wilcox, Vice-President pro
tem., Baltimore Gun Club, Md; To J.T. Marston, Esq. Long's Peak, Grand County, Colorado; and
To Professor Wenlock, Sub-Director of the Cambridge Observatory, Mass.

This dispatch read as follows:

     "In latitude twenty-seven degrees seven minutes north and longitude
     forty-one degrees thirty-seven minutes west shortly after one
     o'clock on the morning of twelfth instant Columbiad Projectile fell
     in Pacific--send instructions--

     BLOOMSBURY,

     Captain, SUSQUEHANNA."

In five minutes more all San Francisco had the news. An hour later, the newspaper boys were
shrieking it through the great cities of the States. Before bed-time every man, woman, and
child in the country had heard it and gone into ecstasies over it. Owing to the difference
in longitude, the people of Europe could not hear it till after midnight. But next morning
the astounding issue of the great American enterprise fell on them like a thunder clap.

We must, of course, decline all attempts at describing the effects of this most unexpected
intelligence on the world at large.

The Secretary of the Navy immediately telegraphed directions to the Susquehanna to keep a full
head of steam up night and day so as to be ready to give instant execution to orders received
at any moment.

The Observatory authorities at Cambridge held a special meeting that very evening, where, with
all the serene calmness so characteristic of learned societies, they discussed the scientific
points of the question in all its bearings. But, before committing themselves to any decided
opinion, they unanimously resolved to wait for the development of further details.

At the rooms of the Gun Club in Baltimore there was a terrible time. The kind reader no doubt
remembers the nature of the dispatch sent one day previously by Professor Belfast from the
Long's Peak observatory, announcing that the Projectile had been seen but that it had become
the Moon's satellite, destined to revolve around her forever and ever till time should be no
more. The reader is also kindly aware by this time that such dispatch was not supported by
the slightest foundations in fact. The learned Professor, in a moment of temporary cerebral
excitation, to which even the greatest scientist is just as liable as the rest of us, had taken
some little meteor or, still more probably, some little fly-speck in the telescope for the
Projectile. The worst of it was that he had not only boldly proclaimed his alleged discovery
to the world at large but he had even explained all about it with the well known easy pomposity
that "Science" sometimes ventures to assume. The consequences of all this may be readily guessed.
The Baltimore Gun Club had split up immediately into two violently opposed parties. Those gentlemen
who regularly conned the scientific magazines, took every word of the learned Professor's dispatch
for gospel--or rather for something of far higher value, and more strictly in accordance with
the highly advanced scientific developments of the day. But the others, who never read anything
but the daily papers and who could not bear the idea of losing Barbican, laughed the whole
thing to scorn. Belfast, they said, had seen as much of the Projectile as he had of the "Open
Polar Sea," and the rest of the dispatch was mere twaddle, though asserted with all the sternness
of a religious dogma and enveloped in the usual scientific slang.

The meeting held in the Club House, 24 Monument Square, Baltimore, on the evening of the 13th,
had been therefore disorderly in the highest degree. Long before the appointed hour, the great
hall was densely packed and the greatest uproar prevailed. Vice-President Wilcox took the chair,
and all was comparatively quiet until Colonel Bloomsbury, the Honorary Secretary in Marston's
absence, commenced to read Belfast's dispatch. Then the scene, according to the account given
in the next day's Sun, from whose columns we condense our report, actually "beggared description."
Roars, yells, cheers, counter-cheers, clappings, hissings, stampings, squallings, whistlings,
barkings, mewings, cock crowings, all of the most fearful and demoniacal character, turned
the immense hall into a regular pandemonium. In vain did President Wilcox fire off his detonating
bell, with a report on ordinary occasions as loud as the roar of a small piece of ordnance.
In the dreadful noise then prevailing it was no more heard than the fizz of a lucifer match.

Some cries, however, made themselves occasionally heard in the pauses of the din. "Read! Read!"
"Dry up!" "Sit down!" "Give him an egg!" "Fair play!" "Hurrah for Barbican!" "Down with his
enemies!" "Free Speech!" "Belfast won't bite you!" "He'd like to bite Barbican, but his teeth
aren't sharp enough!" "Barbican's a martyr to science, let's hear his fate!" "Martyr be hanged;
the Old Man is to the good yet!" "Belfast is the grandest name in Science!" "Groans for the
grandest name!" (Awful groans.) "Three cheers for Old Man Barbican!" (The exceptional strength
alone of the walls saved the building, from being blown out by an explosion in which at least
5,000 pairs of lungs participated.)

"Three cheers for M'Nicholl and the Frenchman!" This was followed by another burst of cheering
so hearty, vigorous and long continued that the scientific party, or Belfasters as they were
now called, seeing that further prolongation of the meet was perfectly useless, moved to adjourn.
It was carried unanimously. President Wilcox left the chair, the meeting broke up in the wildest
disorder--the scientists rather crest fallen, but the Barbican men quite jubilant for having
been so successful in preventing the reading of that detested dispatch.

Little sleeping was done that night in Baltimore, and less business next day. Even in the public
schools so little work was done by the children that S.T. Wallace, Esq., President of the Education
Board, advised an anticipation of the usual Christmas recess by a week. Every one talked of
the Projectile; nothing was heard at the corners but discussions regarding its probable fate.
All Baltimore was immediately rent into two parties, the Belfasters and the Barbicanites. The
latter was the most enthusiastic and noisy, the former decidedly the most numerous and influential.

Science, or rather pseudo-science, always exerts a mysterious attraction of an exceedingly
powerful nature over the generality--that is, the more ignorant portion of the human race.
Assert the most absurd nonsense, call it a scientific truth, and back it up with strange words
which, like potentiality, etc., sound as if they had a meaning but in reality have none, and
nine out of every ten men who read your book will believe you. Acquire a remarkable name in
one branch of human knowledge, and presto! you are infallible in all. Who can contradict you,
if you only wrap up your assertions in specious phrases that not one man in a million attempts
to ascertain the real meaning of? We like so much to be saved the trouble of thinking, that
it is far easier and more comfortable to be led than to contradict, to fall in quietly with
the great flock of sheep that jump blindly after their leader than to remain apart, making
one's self ridiculous by foolishly attempting to argue. Real argument, in fact, is very difficult,
for several reasons: first, you must understand your subject well, which is hardly likely;
secondly, your opponent must also understand it well, which is even less likely; thirdly, you
must listen patiently to his arguments, which is still less likely; and fourthly, he must listen
to yours, the least likely of all. If a quack advertises a panacea for all human ills at a
dollar a bottle, a hundred will buy the bottle, for one that will try how many are killed by
it. What would the investigator gain by charging the quack with murder? Nobody would believe
him, because nobody would take the trouble to follow his arguments. His adversary, first in
the field, had gained the popular ear, and remained the unassailable master of the situation.
Our love of "Science" rests upon our admiration of intellect, only unfortunately the intellect
is too often that of other people, not our own.

The very sound of Belfast's phrases, for instance, "satellite," "lunar attraction," "immutable
path of its orbit," etc, convinced the greater part of the "intelligent" community that he
who used them so flippantly must be an exceedingly great man. Therefore, he had completely
proved his case. Therefore, the great majority of the ladies and gentlemen that regularly attend
the scientific lectures of the Peabody Institute, pronounced Barbican's fate and that of his
companions to be sealed. Next morning's newspapers contained lengthy obituary notices of the
Great Balloon-attics as the witty man of the New York Herald phrased it, some of which might
be considered quite complimentary. These, all industriously copied into the evening papers,
the people were carefully reading over again, some with honest regret, some deriving a great
moral lesson from an attempt exceedingly reprehensible in every point of view, but most, we
are sorry to acknowledge, with a feeling of ill concealed pleasure. Had not they always said
how it was to end? Was there anything more absurd ever conceived? Scientific men too! Hang
such science! If you want a real scientific man, no wind bag, no sham, take Belfast! He knows
what he's talking about! No taking him in! Didn't he by means of the Monster Telescope, see
the Projectile, as large as life, whirling round and round the Moon? Anyway, what else could
have happened? Wasn't it what anybody's common sense expected? Don't you remember a conversation
we had with you one day? etc., etc.

The Barbicanites were very doleful, but they never though of giving in. They would die sooner.
When pressed for a scientific reply to a scientific argument, they denied that there was any
argument to reply to. What! Had not Belfast seen the Projectile? No! Was not the Great Telescope
then good for anything? Yes, but not for everything! Did not Belfast know his business? No!
Did they mean to say that he had seen nothing at all? Well, not exactly that, but those scientific
gentlemen can seldom be trusted; in their rage for discovery, they make a mountain out of a
molehill, or, what is worse, they start a theory and then distort facts to support it. Answers
of this kind either led directly to a fight, or the Belfasters moved away thoroughly disgusted
with the ignorance of their opponents, who could not see a chain of reasoning as bright as
the noonday sun.

Things were in this feverish state on the evening of the 14th, when, all at once, Bloomsbury's
dispatch arrived in Baltimore. I need not say that it dropped like a spark in a keg of gun
powder. The first question all asked was: Is it genuine or bogus? real or got up by the stockbrokers?
But a few flashes backwards and forwards over the wires soon settled that point. The stunning
effects of the new blow were hardly over when the Barbicanites began to perceive that the wonderful
intelligence was decidedly in their favor. Was it not a distinct contradiction of the whole
story told by their opponents? If Barbican and his friends were lying at the bottom of the
Pacific, they were certainly not circumgyrating around the Moon. If it was the Projectile that
had broken off the bowsprit of the Susquehanna, it could not certainly be the Projectile that
Belfast had seen only the day previous doing the duty of a satellite. Did not the truth of
one incident render the other an absolute impossibility? If Bloomsbury was right, was not Belfast
an ass? Hurrah!

The new revelation did not improve poor Barbican's fate a bit--no matter for that! Did not
the party gain by it? What would the Belfasters say now? Would not they hold down their heads
in confusion and disgrace?

The Belfasters, with a versatility highly creditable to human nature, did nothing of the kind.
Rapidly adopting the very line of tactics they had just been so severely censuring, they simply
denied the whole thing. What! the truth of the Bloomsbury dispatch? Yes, every word of it!
Had not Bloomsbury seen the Projectile? No! Were not his eyes good for anything? Yes, but not
for everything! Did not the Captain know his business? No! Did they mean to say that the bowsprit
of the Susquehanna had not been broken off? Well, not exactly that, but those naval gentlemen
are not always to be trusted; after a pleasant little supper, they often see the wrong light-house,
or, what is worse, in their desire to shield their negligence from censure, they dodge the
blame by trying to show that the accident was unavoidable. The Susquehanna's bowsprit had been
snapped off, in all probability, by some sudden squall, or, what was still more likely, some
little aerolite had struck it and frightened the crew into fits. When answers of this kind
did not lead to blows, the case was an exceptional one indeed. The contestants were so numerous
and so excited that the police at last began to think of letting them fight it out without
any interference. Marshal O'Kane, though ably assisted by his 12 officers and 500 patrolmen,
had a terrible time of it. The most respectable men in Baltimore, with eyes blackened, noses
bleeding, and collars torn, saw the inside of a prison that night for the first time in all
their lives. Men that even the Great War had left the warmest of friends, now abused each other
like fishwomen. The prison could not hold the half of those arrested. They were all, however,
discharged next morning, for the simple reason that the Mayor and the aldermen had been themselves
engaged in so many pugilistic combats during the night that they were altogether disabled from
attending to their magisterial duties next day.

Our readers, however, may be quite assured that, even in the wildest whirl of the tremendous
excitement around them, all the members of the Baltimore Gun Club did not lose their heads.
In spite of the determined opposition of the Belfasters who would not allow the Bloomsbury
dispatch to be read at the special meeting called that evening, a few succeeded in adjourning
to a committee-room, where Joseph Wilcox, Esq., presiding, our old friends Colonel Bloomsbury,
Major Elphinstone, Tom Hunter, Billsby the brave, General Morgan, Chief Engineer John Murphy,
and about as many more as were sufficient to form a quorum, declared themselves to be in regular
session, and proceeded quietly to debate on the nature of Captain Bloomsbury's dispatch.

Was it of a nature to justify immediate action or not? Decided unanimously in the affirmative.
Why so? Because, whether actually true or untrue, the incident it announced was not impossible.
Had it indeed announced the Projectile to have fallen in California or in South America, there
would have been good valid reasons to question its accuracy. But by taking into consideration
the Moon's distance, and the time elapsed between the moment of the start and that of the presumed
fall (about 10 days), and also the Earth's revolution in the meantime, it was soon calculated
that the point at which the Projectile should strike our globe, if it struck it at all, would
be somewhere about 27° north latitude, and 42° west longitude--the very identical spot given
in the Captain's dispatch! This certainly was a strong point in its favor, especially as there
was positively nothing valid whatever to urge against it.

A decided resolution was therefore immediately taken. Everything that man could do was to be
done at once, in order to fish up their brave associates from the depths of the Pacific. That
very night, in fact, whilst the streets of Baltimore were still resounding with the yells of
contending Belfasters and Barbicanites, a committee of four, Morgan, Hunter, Murphy, and Elphinstone,
were speeding over the Alleghanies in a special train, placed at their disposal by the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company, and fast enough to land them in Chicago pretty early on the following
evening.

Here a fresh locomotive and a Pullman car taking charge of them, they were whirled off to Omaha,
reaching that busy locality at about supper time on the evening of December 16th. The Pacific
Train, as it was called though at that time running no further west than Julesburg, instead
of waiting for the regular hour of starting, fired up that very night, and was soon pulling
the famous Baltimore Club men up the slopes of the Nebraska at the rate of forty miles an hour.
They were awakened before light next morning by the guard, who told them that Julesburg, which
they were just entering, was the last point so far reached by the rails. But their regret at
this circumstance was most unexpectedly and joyfully interrupted by finding their hands warmly
clasped and their names cheerily cried out by their old and beloved friend, J.T. Marston, the
illustrious Secretary of the Baltimore Gun Club.

At the close of the first volume of our entertaining and veracious history, we left this most
devoted friend and admirer of Barbican established firmly at his post on the summit of Long's
Peak, beside the Great Telescope, watching the skies, night and day, for some traces of his
departed friends. There, as the gracious Reader will also remember, he had come a little too
late to catch that sight of the Projectile which Belfast had at first reported so confidently,
but of which the Professor by degrees had begun to entertain the most serious doubts.

In these doubts, however, Marston, strange to say, would not permit himself for one moment
to share. Belfast might shake his head as much as he pleased; he, Marston, was no fickle reed
to be shaken by every wind; he firmly believed the Projectile to be there before him, actually
in sight, if he could only see it. All the long night of the 13th, and even for several hours
of the 14th, he never quitted the telescope for a single instant. The midnight sky was in magnificent
order; not a speck dimmed its azure of an intensely dark tint. The stars blazed out like fires;
the Moon refused none of her secrets to the scientists who were gazing at her so intently that
night from the platform on the summit of Long's Peak. But no black spot crawling over her resplendent
surface rewarded their eager gaze. Marston indeed would occasionally utter a joyful cry announcing
some discovery, but in a moment after he was confessing with groans that it was all a false
alarm. Towards morning, Belfast gave up in despair and went to take a sleep; but no sleep for
Marston. Though he was now quite alone, the assistants having also retired, he kept on talking
incessantly to himself, expressing the most unbounded confidence in the safety of his friends,
and the absolute certainty of their return. It was not until some hours after the Sun had risen
and the Moon had disappeared behind the snowy peaks of the west, that he at last withdrew his
weary eye from the glass through which every image formed by the great reflector was to be
viewed. The countenance he turned on Belfast, who had now come back, was rueful in the extreme.
It was the image of grief and despair.

"Did you see nothing whatever during the night, Professor?" he asked of Belfast, though he
knew very well the answer he was to get.

"Nothing whatever."

"But you saw them once, didn't you?"

"Them! Who?"

"Our friends."

"Oh! the Projectile--well--I think I must have made some oversight."

"Don't say that! Did not Mr. M'Connell see it also?"

"No. He only wrote out what I dictated."

"Why, you must have seen it! I have seen it myself!"

"You shall never see it again! It's shot off into space."

"You're as wrong now as you thought you were right yesterday."

"I'm sorry to say I was wrong yesterday; but I have every reason to believe I'm right to-day."

"We shall see! Wait till to-night!"

"To-night! Too late! As far as the Projectile is concerned, night is now no better than day."

The learned Professor was quite right, but in a way which he did not exactly expect. That very
evening, after a weary day, apparently a month long, during which Marston sought in vain for
a few hours' repose, just as all hands, well wrapped up in warm furs, were getting ready to
assume their posts once more near the mouth of the gigantic Telescope, Mr. M'Connell hastily
presented himself with a dispatch for Belfast.

The Professor was listlessly breaking the envelope, when he uttered a sharp cry of surprise.

"Hey!" cried Marston quickly. "What's up now?"

"Oh!! The Pro--pro--projectile!!"

"What of it? What? Oh what?? Speak!!"

"IT'S BACK!!"

Marston uttered a wild yell of mingled horror, surprise, and joy, jumped a little into the
air, and then fell flat and motionless on the platform. Had Belfast shot him with a ten pound
weight, right between the two eyes, he could not have knocked him flatter or stiffer. Having
neither slept all night, nor eaten all day, the poor fellow's system had become so weak that
such unexpected news was really more than he could bear. Besides, as one of the Cambridge men
of the party, a young medical student, remarked: the thin, cold air of these high mountains
was extremely enervating.

The astronomers, all exceedingly alarmed, did what they could to recover their friend from
his fit, but it was nearly ten minutes before they had the satisfaction of seeing his limbs
moving with a slight quiver and his breast beginning to heave. At last the color came back
to his face and his eyes opened. He stared around for a few seconds at his friends, evidently
unconscious, but his senses were not long in returning.

"Say!" he uttered at last in a faint voice.

"Well!" replied Belfast.

"Where is that infernal Pro--pro--jectile?"

"In the Pacific Ocean."

"What??"

He was on his feet in an instant.

"Say that again!"

"In the Pacific Ocean."

"Hurrah! All right! Old Barbican's not made into mincemeat yet! No, sirree! Let's start!"

"Where for?"

"San Francisco!"

"When?"

"This instant!"

"In the dark?"

"We shall soon have the light of the Moon! Curse her! it's the least she can do after all the
trouble she has given us!"

CHAPTER XXII.

ON THE WINGS OF THE WIND.

Leaving M'Connell and a few other Cambridge men to take charge of the Great Telescope, Marston
and Belfast in little more than an hour after the receipt of the exciting dispatch, were scudding
down the slopes of Long's Peak by the only possible route--the inclined railroad. This mode
of travelling, however, highly satisfactory as far as it went, ceased altogether at the mountain
foot, at the point where the Dale River formed a junction with Cache la Poudre Creek. But Marston,
having already mapped out the whole journey with some care and forethought, was ready for almost
every emergency. Instinctively feeling that the first act of the Baltimore Gun Club would be
to send a Committee to San Francisco to investigate matters, he had determined to meet this
deputation on the route, and his only trouble now was to determine at what point he would be
most likely to catch them. His great start, he knew perfectly well, could not put him more
than a day in advance of them: they having the advantage of a railroad nearly all the way,
whilst himself and Belfast could not help losing much time in struggling through ravines, canyons,
mountain precipices, and densely tangled forests, not to mention the possibility of a brush
or two with prowling Indians, before they could strike the line of the Pacific Railroad, along
which he knew the Club men to be approaching. After a few hours rest at La Porte, a little
settlement lately started in the valley, early in the morning they took the stage that passed
through from Denver to Cheyenne, a town at that time hardly a year old but already flourishing,
with a busy population of several thousand inhabitants.

Losing not a moment at Cheyenne, where they arrived much sooner than they had anticipated,
they took places in Wells, Fargo and Co.'s Overland Stage Mail bound east, and were soon flying
towards Julesburg at the rate of twelve miles an hour. Here Marston was anxious to meet the
Club men, as at this point the Pacific Railroad divided into two branches--one bearing north,
the other south of the Great Salt Lake --and he feared they might take the wrong one.

But he arrived in Julesburg fully 10 hours before the Committee, so that himself and Belfast
had not only ample time to rest a little after their rapid flight from Long's Peak, but also
to make every possible preparation for the terrible journey of more than fifteen hundred miles
that still lay before them.

This journey, undertaken at a most unseasonable period of the year, and over one of the most
terrible deserts in the world, would require a volume for itself. Constantly presenting the
sharpest points of contrast between the most savage features of wild barbaric nature on the
one hand, and the most touching traits of the sweetest humanity on the other, the story of
our Club men's adventures, if only well told, could hardly fail to be highly interesting. But
instead of a volume, we can give it only a chapter, and that a short one.

From Julesburg, the last station on the eastern end of the Pacific Railroad, to Cisco, the
last station on its western end, the distance is probably about fifteen hundred miles, about
as far as Constantinople is from London, or Moscow from Paris. This enormous stretch of country
had to be travelled all the way by, at the best, a six horse stage tearing along night and
day at a uniform rate, road or no road, of ten miles an hour. But this was the least of the
trouble. Bands of hostile Indians were a constant source of watchfulness and trouble, against
which even a most liberal stock of rifles and revolvers were not always a reassurance. Whirlwinds
of dust often overwhelmed the travellers so completely that they could hardly tell day from
night, whilst blasts of icy chill, sweeping down from the snowy peaks of the Rocky Mountains,
often made them imagine themselves in the midst of the horrors of an Arctic winter.

The predominant scenery gave no pleasure to the eye or exhilaration to the mind. It was of
the dreariest description. Days and days passed with hardly a house to be seen, or a tree or
a blade of grass. I might even add, or a mountain or a river, for the one was too often a heap
of agglomerated sand and clay cut into unsightly chasms by the rain, and the other generally
degenerated into a mere stagnant swamp, its shallowness and dryness increasing regularly with
its length. The only houses were log ranches, called Relays, hardly visible in their sandy
surroundings, and separate from each other by a mean distance of ten miles. The only trees
were either stunted cedars, so far apart, as to be often denominated Lone Trees; and, besides
wormwood, the only plant was the sage plant, about two feet high, gray, dry, crisp, and emitting
a sharp pungent odor by no means pleasant.

In fact, Barbican and his companions had seen nothing drearier or savager in the dreariest
and savagest of lunar landscapes than the scenes occasionally presented to Marston and his
friends in their headlong journey on the track of the great Pacific Railroad. Here, bowlders,
high, square, straight and plumb as an immense hotel, blocked up your way; there, lay an endless
level, flat as the palm of your hand, over which your eye might roam in vain in search of something
green like a meadow, yellow like a cornfield, or black like ploughed ground--a mere boundless
waste of dirty white from the stunted wormwood, often rendered misty with the clouds of smarting
alkali dust.

Occasionally, however, this savage scenery decidedly changed its character. Now, a lovely glen
would smile before our travellers, traversed by tinkling streams, waving with sweet grasses,
dotted with little groves, alive with hares, antelopes, and even elks, but apparently never
yet trodden by the foot of man. Now, our Club men felt like travelling on clouds, as they careered
along the great plateau west of the Black Hills, fully 8,000 feet above the level of the sea,
though even there the grass was as green and fresh as if it grew in some sequestered valley
of Pennsylvania. Again,

    "In this untravelled world whose margin fades
    For ever and for ever as they moved,"

they would find themselves in an immense, tawny, treeless plain, outlined by mountains so distant
as to resemble fantastic cloud piles. Here for days they would have to skirt the coasts of
a Lake, vast, unruffled, unrippled, apparently of metallic consistency, from whose sapphire
depths rose pyramidal islands to a height of fully three thousand feet above the surface.

In a few days all would change. No more sand wastes, salt water flats, or clouds of blinding
alkali dust. The travellers' road, at the foot of black precipitous cliffs, would wind along
the brink of a roaring torrent, whose devious course would lead them into the heart of the
Sierras, where misty peaks solemnly sentinelled the nestling vales still smiling in genial
summer verdure. Across these they were often whirled through immense forests of varied character,
here dense enough to obscure the track, there swaying in the sweet sunlight and vocal with
joyous birds of bright and gorgeous plumage. Then tropical vegetation would completely hide
the trail, crystal lakes would obstruct it, cascades shooting down from perpendicular rocks
would obliterate it, mountain passes barricaded by basaltic columns would render it uncertain,
and on one occasion it was completely covered up by a fall of snow to a depth of more than
twenty feet.

But nothing could oppose serious delay to our travellers. Their motto was ever "onward!" and
what they lost in one hour by some mishap they endeavored to recover on the next by redoubled
speed. They felt that they would be no friends of Barbican's if they were discouraged by impossibilities.
Besides, what would have been real impossibilities at another time, several concurrent circumstances
now rendered comparatively easy.

The surveys, the gradings, the cuttings, and the other preliminary labors in the great Pacific
Railroad, gave them incalculable aid. Horses, help, carriages, provisions were always in abundance.
Their object being well known, they had the best wishes of every hand on the road. People remained
up for them all hours of the night, no matter at what station they were expected. The warmest
and most comfortable of meals were always ready for them, for which no charge would be taken
on any account. In Utah, a deputation of Mormons galloped alongside them for forty miles to
help them over some points of the road that had been often found difficult. The season was
the finest known for many years. In short, as an old Californian said as he saw them shooting
over the rickety bridge that crossed the Bear River at Corinne: "they had everything in their
favor--luck as well as pluck!"

The rate at which they performed this terrible ride across the Continent and the progress they
made each day, some readers may consider worthy of a few more items for the sake of future
reference. Discarding the ordinary overland mail stage as altogether too slow for their purpose,
they hired at Julesburg a strong, well built carriage, large enough to hold them all comfortably;
but this they had to replace twice before they came to their journey's end. Their team always
consisted of the best six horses that could be found, and their driver was the famous Hank
Monk of California, who, happening to be in Julesburg about that time, volunteered to see them
safely landed in Cisco on the summit of the Sierra Nevada. They were enabled to change horses
as near as possible every hour, by telegraphing ahead in the morning, during the day, and often
far into the hours of night.

Starting from Julesburg early in the morning of the 17th, their first resting place for a few
hours at night was Granite Canyon, twenty miles west of Cheyenne, and just at the foot of the
pass over the Black Hills. On the 18th, night-fall found them entering St. Mary's, at the further
end of the pass between Rattle Snake Hills and Elk Mountain. It was after 5 o'clock and already
dark on the 19th, when the travellers, hurrying with all speed through the gloomy gorge of
slate formation leading to the banks of the Green River, found the ford too deep to be ventured
before morning. The 20th was a clear cold day very favorable for brisk locomotion, and the
bright sun had not quite disappeared behind the Wahsatch Mountains when the Club men, having
crossed the Bear River, began to leave the lofty plateau of the Rocky Mountains by the great
inclined plane marked by the lines of the Echo and the Weber Rivers on their way to the valley
of the Great American Desert.

Quitting Castle Rock early on the morning of the 21st, they soon came in sight of the Great
Salt Lake, along the northern shores of which they sped all day, taking shelter after night-fall
at Terrace, in a miserable log cabin surrounded by piles of drifting sand. The 22d was a terrible
day. The sand was blinding, the alkali dust choking, the ride for five or six hours was up
considerable grade; still they had accomplished their 150 miles before resting for the night
at Elko, even at this period a flourishing little village on the banks of the Humboldt. After
another smothering ride on the 23d, they rested, at Winnemucca, another flourishing village,
situated at the precise point in the desert where the Little Humboldt joins Humboldt River,
without, however, making the channel fuller or wider. The 24th was decidedly the hardest day,
their course lying through the worst part of the terrible Nevada desert. But a glimpse of the
Sierras looming in the western horizon gave them courage and strength enough to reach Wadsworth,
at their foot, a little before midnight. Our travellers had now but one day's journey more
to make before reaching the railroad at Cisco, but, this being a very steep ascent nearly all
the way up, each mile cost almost twice as much time and exertion.

At last, late in the evening of Christmas Day, amidst the most enthusiastic cheers of all the
inhabitants of Cisco, who welcomed them with a splendid pine brand procession, Marston and
his friends, thoroughly used up, feet swelled, limbs bruised, bones aching, stomachs seasick,
eyes bleared, ears ringing, and brains on fire for want of rest, took their places in the State
Car waiting for them, and started without a moment's delay for Sacramento, about a hundred
miles distant. How delicious was the change to our poor travellers! Washed, refreshed, and
lying at full length on luxurious sofas, their sensations, as the locomotive spun them down
the ringing grooves of the steep Sierras, can be more easily imagined than described. They
were all fast asleep when the train entered Sacramento, but the Mayor and the other city authorities
who had waited up to receive them, had them carried carefully, so as not to disturb their slumbers,
on board the Yo Semite, a fine steamer belonging to the California Navigation Company, which
landed them safely at San Francisco about noon on the 26th, after accomplishing the extraordinary
winter journey of 1500 miles over land in little more than nine days, only about 200 miles
being done by steam.

Half-past two P.M. found our travellers bathed, dressed, shaved, dined, and ready to receive
company in the grand parlor of the Occidental Hotel. Captain Bloomsbury was the first to call.

Marston hobbled eagerly towards him and asked:

"What have you done towards fishing them up, Captain?"

"A good deal, Mr. Marston; indeed almost everything is ready."

"Is that really the case, Captain?" asked all, very agreeably surprised.

"Yes, gentlemen, I am most happy to state that I am quite in earnest."

"Can we start to-morrow?" asked General Morgan. "We have not a moment to spare, you know."

"We can start at noon to-morrow at latest," replied the Captain, "if the foundry men do a little
extra work to-night."

"We must start this very day, Captain Bloomsbury," cried Marston resolutely; "Barbican has
been lying two weeks and thirteen hours in the depths of the Pacific! If he is still alive,
no thanks to Marston! He must by this time have given me up! The grappling irons must be got
on board at once, Captain, and let us start this evening!"

At half-past four that very evening, a shot from the Fort and a lowering of the Stars and Stripes
from its flagstaff saluted the Susquehanna, as she steamed proudly out of the Golden Gate at
the lively rate of fifteen knots an hour.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE CLUB MEN GO A FISHING.

Captain Bloomsbury was perfectly right when he said that almost everything was ready for the
commencement of the great work which the Club men had to accomplish. Considering how much was
required, this was certainly saying a great deal; but here also, as on many other occasions,
fortune had singularly favored the Club men.

San Francisco Bay, as everybody knows, though one of the finest and safest harbors in the world,
is not without some danger from hidden rocks. One of these in particular, the Anita Rock as
it was called, lying right in mid channel, had become so notorious for the wrecks of which
it was the cause, that, after much time spent in the consideration of the subject, the authorities
had at last determined to blow it up. This undertaking having been very satisfactorily accomplished
by means of dynamite or giant powder, another improvement in the harbor had been also undertaken
with great success. The wrecks of many vessels lay scattered here and there pretty numerously,
some, like that of the Flying Dragon, in spots so shallow that they could be easily seen at
low water, but others sunk at least twenty fathoms deep, like that of the Caroline, which had
gone down in 1851, not far from Blossom Rock, with a treasure on board of 20,000 ounces of
gold. The attempt to clear away these wrecks had also turned out very well; even sufficient
treasure had been recovered to repay all the expense, though the preparations for the purpose
by the contractors, M'Gowan and Co. had been made on the most extensive scale, and in accordance
with the latest improvements in the apparatus for submarine operations.

Buoys, made of huge canvas sacks, coated with India rubber, and guarded by a net work of strong
cordage, had been manufactured and provided by the New York Submarine Company. These buoys,
when inflated and working in pairs, had a lifting capacity of 30 tons a pair. Reservoirs of
air, provided with powerful compression pumps, always accompanied the buoys. To attach the
latter, in a collapsed condition, with strong chains to the sides of the vessels which were
to be lifted, a diving apparatus was necessary. This also the New York Company had provided,
and it was so perfect in its way that, by means of peculiar appliances of easy management,
the diver could walk about on the bottom, take his own bearings, ascend to the surface at pleasure,
and open his helmet without assistance. A few sets likewise of Rouquayrol and Denayrouze's
famous submarine armor had been provided. These would prove of invaluable advantage in all
operations performed at great sea depths, as its distinctive feature, "the regulator," could
maintain, what is not done by any other diving armor, a constant equality of pressure on the
lungs between the external and the internal air.

But perhaps the most useful article of all was a new form of diving bell called the Nautilus,
a kind of submarine boat, capable of lateral as well as vertical movement at the will of its
occupants. Constructed with double sides, the intervening chambers could be filled either with
water or air according as descent or ascent was required. A proper supply of water enabled
the machine to descend to depths impossible to be reached otherwise; this water could then
be expelled by an ingenious contrivance, which, replacing it with air, enabled the diver to
rise towards the surface as fast as he pleased.

All these and many other portions of the submarine apparatus which had been employed that very
year for clearing the channel, lifting the wrecks and recovering the treasure, lay now at San
Francisco, unused fortunately on account of the season of the year, and therefore they could
be readily obtained for the asking. They had even been generously offered to Captain Bloomsbury,
who, in obedience to a telegram from Washington, had kept his crew busily employed for nearly
two weeks night and day in transferring them all safely on board the Susquehanna.

Marston was the first to make a careful inspection of every article intended for the operation.

"Do you consider these buoys powerful enough to lift the Projectile, Captain?" he asked next
morning, as the vessel was briskly heading southward, at a distance of ten or twelve miles
from the coast on their left.

"You can easily calculate that problem yourself, Mr. Marston," replied the Captain. "It presents
no difficulty. The Projectile weighs about 20 thousand pounds, or 10 tons?"

"Correct!"

"Well, a pair of these buoys when inflated can raise a weight of 30 tons."

"So far so good. But how do you propose attaching them to the Projectile?"

"We simply let them descend in a state of collapse; the diver, going down with them, will have
no difficulty in making a fast connection. As soon as they are inflated the Projectile will
come up like a cork."

"Can the divers readily reach such depths?"

"That remains to be seen Mr. Marston."

"Captain," said Morgan, now joining the party, "you are a worthy member of our Gun Club. You
have done wonders. Heaven grant it may not be all in vain! Who knows if our poor friends are
still alive?"

"Hush!" cried Marston quickly. "Have more sense than to ask such questions. Is Barbican alive!
Am I alive? They're all alive, I tell you, only we must be quick about reaching them before
the air gives out. That's what's the matter! Air! Provisions, water--abundance! But air--oh!
that's their weak point! Quick, Captain, quick--They're throwing the reel--I must see her rate!"
So saying, he hurried off to the stern, followed by General Morgan. Chief Engineer Murphy and
the Captain of the Susquehanna were thus left for awhile together.

These two men had a long talk on the object of their journey and the likelihood of anything
satisfactory being accomplished. The man of the sea candidly acknowledged his apprehensions.
He had done everything in his power towards collecting suitable machinery for fishing up the
Projectile, but he had done it all, he said, more as a matter of duty than because he believed
that any good could result from it; in fact, he never expected to see the bold adventurers
again either living or dead. Murphy, who well understood not only what machinery was capable
of effecting, but also what it would surely fail in, at first expressed the greatest confidence
in the prosperous issue of the undertaking. But when he learned, as he now did for the first
time, that the ocean bed on which the Projectile was lying could be hardly less than 20,000
feet below the surface, he assumed a countenance as grave as the Captain's, and at once confessed
that, unless their usual luck stood by them, his poor friends had not the slightest possible
chance of ever being fished up from the depths of the Pacific.

The conversation maintained among the officers and the others on board the Susquehanna, was
pretty much of the same nature. It is almost needless to say that all heads--except Belfast's,
whose scientific mind rejected the Projectile theory with the most serene contempt--were filled
with the same idea, all hearts throbbed with the same emotion. Wouldn't it be glorious to fish
them up alive and well? What were they doing just now? Doing? Doing! Their bodies most probably
were lying in a shapeless pile on the floor of the Projectile, like a heap of clothes, the
uppermost man being the last smothered; or perhaps floating about in the water inside the Projectile,
like dead gold fish in an aquarium; or perhaps burned to a cinder, like papers in a "champion"
safe after a great fire; or, who knows? perhaps at that very moment the poor fellows were making
their last and almost superhuman struggles to burst their watery prison and ascend once more
into the cheerful regions of light and air! Alas! How vain must such puny efforts prove! Plunged
into ocean depths of three or four miles beneath the surface, subjected to an inconceivable
pressure of millions and millions of tons of sea water, their metallic shroud was utterly unassailable
from within, and utterly unapproachable from without!

Early on the morning of December 29th, the Captain calculating from his log that they must
now be very near the spot where they had witnessed the extraordinary phenomenon, the Susquehanna
hove to. Having to wait till noon to find his exact position, he ordered the steamer to take
a short circular course of a few hours' duration, in hope of sighting the buoy. But though
at least a hundred telescopes scanned the calm ocean breast for many miles in all directions,
it was nowhere to be seen.

Precisely at noon, aided by his officers and in the presence of Marston, Belfast, and the Gun
Club Committee, the Captain took his observations. After a moment or two of the most profound
interest, it was a great gratification to all to learn that the Susquehanna was on the right
parallel, and only about 15 miles west of the precise spot where the Projectile had disappeared
beneath the waves. The steamer started at once in the direction indicated, and a minute or
two before one o'clock the Captain said they were "there." No sign of the buoy could yet be
seen in any direction; it had probably been drifted southward by the Mexican coast current
which slowly glides along these shores from December to April.

"At last!" cried Marston, with a sigh of great relief.

"Shall we commence at once?" asked the Captain.

"Without losing the twenty thousandth part of a second!" answered Marston; "life or death depends
upon our dispatch!"

The Susquehanna again hove to, and this time all possible precautions were taken to keep her
in a state of perfect immobility--an operation easily accomplished in these pacific latitudes,
where cloud and wind and water are often as motionless as if all life had died out of the world.
In fact, as the boats were quietly lowered, preparatory for beginning the operations, the mirror
like calmness of sea, sky, and ship so impressed the Doctor, who was of a poetical turn of
mind, that he could not help exclaiming to the little Midshipman, who was standing nearest:

"Coleridge realized, with variations:

    The breeze drops down, the sail drops down,
      All's still as still can be;
    If we speak, it is only to break
      The silence of the sea.
    Still are the clouds, still are the shrouds,
      No life, no breath, no motion;
    Idle are all as a painted ship
      Upon a painted ocean!"

Chief Engineer Murphy now took command. Before letting down the buoys, the first thing evidently
to be done was to find out, if possible, the precise point where the Projectile lay. For this
purpose, the Nautilus was clearly the only part of the machinery that could be employed with
advantage. Its chambers were accordingly soon filled with water, its air reservoirs were also
soon completely charged, and the Nautilus itself, suspended by chains from the end of a yard,
lay quietly on the ocean surface, its manhole on the top remaining open for the reception of
those who were willing to encounter the dangers that awaited it in the fearful depths of the
Pacific. Every one looking on was well aware that, after a few hundred feet below the surface,
the pressure would grow more and more enormous, until at last it became quite doubtful if any
line could bear the tremendous strain. It was even possible that at a certain depth the walls
of the Nautilus might be crushed in like an eggshell, and the whole machine made as flat as
two leaves of paper pasted together.

Perfectly conscious of the nature of the tremendous risk they were about to run, Marston, Morgan,
and Murphy quietly bade their friends a short farewell and were lowered into the manhole. The
Nautilus having room enough for four, Belfast had been expected to be of the party but, feeling
a little sea sick, the Professor backed out at the last moment, to the great joy of Mr. Watkins,
the famous reporter of the N.Y. Herald, who was immediately allowed to take his place.

Every provision against immediate danger had been made. By means of preconcerted signals, the
inmates could have themselves drawn up, let down, or carried laterally in whatever direction
they pleased. By barometers and other instruments they could readily ascertain the pressure
of the air and water, also how far they had descended and at what rate they were moving. The
Captain, from his bridge, carefully superintended every detail of the operation. All signals
he insisted on attending to himself personally, transmitting them instantly by his bell to
the engineer below. The whole power of the steam engine had been brought to bear on the windlass;
the chains could withstand an enormous strain. The wheels had been carefully oiled and tested
beforehand; the signalling apparatus had been subjected to the rigidest examination; and every
portion of the machinery had been proved to be in admirable working order.

The chances of immediate and unforeseen danger, it is true, had been somewhat diminished by
all these precautions. The risk, nevertheless, was fearful. The slightest accident or even
carelessness might easily lead to the most disastrous consequence.

Five minutes after two o'clock, the manhole being closed, the lamps lit, and everything pronounced
all right, the signal for the descent was given, and the Nautilus immediately disappeared beneath
the waters. A double anxiety now possessed all on board the Susquehanna: the prisoners in the
Nautilus were in danger as well as the prisoners in the Projectile. Marston and his friends,
however, were anything but disquieted on their own account, and, pencil in hand and noses flattened
on the glass plates, they examined carefully everything they could see in the liquid masses
through which they were descending.

For the first five hundred feet, the descent was accomplished with little trouble. The Nautilus
sank rather slowly, at a uniform rate of a foot to the second. It had not been two minutes
under water when the light of day completely disappeared. But for this the occupants were fully
prepared, having provided themselves with powerful lamps, whose brilliant light, radiating
from polished reflectors, gave them an opportunity of seeing clearly around it for a distance
of eight or ten feet in all directions. Owing to the superlatively excellent construction of
the Nautilus, also on account of the scaphanders, or suits of diving armor, with which Marston
and his friends had clothed themselves, the disagreeable sensations to which divers are ordinarily
exposed, were hardly felt at all in the beginning of the descent.

Marston was about to congratulate his companions on the favorable auspices inaugurating their
trip, when Murphy, consulting the instrument, discovered to his great surprise that the Nautilus
was not making its time. In reply to their signal "faster!" the downward movement increased
a little, but it soon relaxed again. Instead of less than two minutes, as at the beginning,
it now took twelve minutes to make a hundred feet. They had gone only seven hundred feet in
thirty-seven minutes. In spite of repeated signalling, their progress during the next hour
was even still more alarming, one hundred feet taking exactly 59 minutes. To shorten detail,
it required two hours more to make another hundred feet; and then the Nautilus, after taking
ten minutes to crawl an inch further, came to a perfect stand still. The pressure of the water
had evidently now become too enormous to allow further descent.

The Clubmen's distress was very great; Marston's, in particular, was indescribable. In vain,
catching at straws, he signalled "eastwards!" "westwards!" "northwards!" or "southwards!" the
Nautilus moved readily every way but downwards.

"Oh! what shall we do?" he cried in despair; "Barbican, must we really give you up though separated
from us by the short distance of only a few miles?"

At last, nothing better being to be done, the unwilling signal "heave upwards!" was given,
and the hauling up commenced. It was done very slowly, and with the greatest care. A sudden
jerk might snap the chains; an incautious twist might put a kink on the air tube; besides,
it was well known that the sudden removal of heavy pressure resulting from rapid ascent, is
attended by very disagreeable sensations, which have sometimes even proved fatal.

It was near midnight when the Clubmen were lifted out of the manhole. Their faces were pale,
their eyes bloodshot, their figures stooped. Even the Herald Reporter seemed to have got enough
of exploring. But Marston was as confident as ever, and tried to be as brisk.

He had hardly swallowed the refreshment so positively enjoined in the circumstances, when he
abruptly addressed the Captain:

"What's the weight of your heaviest cannon balls?"

"Thirty pounds, Mr. Marston."

"Can't you attach thirty of them to the Nautilus and sink us again?"

"Certainly, Mr. Marston, if you wish it. It shall be the first thing done to-morrow."

"To-night, Captain! At once! Barbican has not an instant to lose."

"At once then be it, Mr. Marston. Just as you say."

The new sinkers were soon attached to the Nautilus, which disappeared once more with all its
former occupants inside, except the Herald Reporter, who had fallen asleep over his notes,
or at least seemed to be. He had probably made up his mind as to the likelihood of the Nautilus
ever getting back again.

The second descent was quicker than the first, but just as futile. At 1152 feet, the Nautilus
positively refused to go a single inch further. Marston looked like a man in a stupor. He made
no objection to the signal given by the others to return; he even helped to cut the ropes by
which the cannon balls had been attached. Not a single word was spoken by the party, as they
slowly rose to the surface. Marston seemed to be struggling against despair. For the first
time, the impossibility of the great enterprise seemed to dawn upon him. He and his friends
had undertaken a great fight with the mighty Ocean, which now played with them as a giant with
a pigmy. To reach the bottom was evidently completely out of their power; and what was infinitely
worse, there was nothing to be gained by reaching it. The Projectile was not on the bottom;
it could not even have got to the bottom. Marston said it all in a few words to the Captain,
as the Clubmen stepped on deck a few hours later:

"Barbican is floating midway in the depths of the Pacific, like Mahomet in his coffin!"

Blindly yielding, however, to the melancholy hope that is born of despair, Marston and his
friends renewed the search next day, the 30th, but they were all too worn out with watching
and excitement to be able to continue it longer than a few hours. After a night's rest, it
was renewed the day following, the 31st, with some vigor, and a good part of the ocean lying
between Guadalupe and Benito islands was carefully investigated to a depth of seven or eight
hundred feet. No traces whatever of the Projectile. Several California steamers, plying between
San Francisco and Panama, passed the Susquehanna within hailing distance. But to every question,
the invariable reply one melancholy burden bore:

"No luck!"

All hands were now in despair. Marston could neither eat nor drink. He never even spoke the
whole day, except on two occasions. Once, when somebody heard him muttering:

"He's now seventeen days in the ocean!"

The second time he spoke, the words seemed to be forced out of him. Belfast admitted, for the
sake of argument, that the Projectile had fallen into the ocean, but he strongly denounced
the absurd idea of its occupants being still alive. "Under such circumstances," went on the
learned Professor, "further prolongation of vital energy would be simply impossible. Want of
air, want of food, want of courage--"

"No, sir!" interrupted Marston quite savagely. "Want of air, of meat, of drink, as much as
you like! But when you speak of Barbican's want of courage, you don't know what you are talking
about! No holy martyr ever died at the stake with a loftier courage than my noble friend Barbican!"

That night he asked the Captain if he would not sail down as far as Cape San Lucas. Bloomsbury
saw that further search was all labor lost, but he respected such heroic grief too highly to
give a positive refusal. He consented to devote the following day, New Year's, to an exploring
expedition as far as Magdalena Bay, making the most diligent inquiries in all directions.

But New Year's was just as barren of results as any of its predecessors, and, a little before
sunset, Captain Bloomsbury, regardless of further entreaties and unwilling to risk further
delay, gave orders to 'bout ship and return to San Francisco.

The Susquehanna was slowly turning around in obedience to her wheel, as if reluctant to abandon
forever a search in which humanity at large was interested, when the look-out man, stationed
in the forecastle, suddenly sang out:

"A buoy to the nor'east, not far from shore!"

All telescopes were instantly turned in the direction indicated. The buoy, or whatever object
it was, could be readily distinguished. It certainly did look like one of those buoys used
to mark out the channel that ships follow when entering a harbor. But as the vessel slowly
approached it, a small flag, flapping in the dying wind--a strange feature in a buoy--was seen
to surmount its cone, which a nearer approach showed to be emerging four or five feet from
the water. And for a buoy too it was exceedingly bright and shiny, reflecting the red rays
of the setting sun as strongly as if its surface was crystal or polished metal!

"Call Mr. Marston on deck at once!" cried the Captain, his voice betraying unwonted excitement
as he put the glass again to his eye.

Marston, thoroughly worn out by his incessant anxiety during the day, had been just carried
below by his friends, and they were now trying to make him take a little refreshment and repose.
But the Captain's order brought them all on deck like a flash.

They found the whole crew gazing in one direction, and, though speaking in little more than
whispers, evidently in a state of extraordinary excitement.

What could all this mean? Was there any ground for hope? The thought sent a pang of delight
through Marston's wildly beating heart that almost choked him.

The Captain beckoned to the Club men to take a place on the bridge beside himself. They instantly
obeyed, all quietly yielding them a passage.

The vessel was now only about a quarter of a mile distant from the object and therefore near
enough to allow it to be distinguished without the aid of a glass.

What! The flag bore the well known Stars and Stripes!

An electric shudder of glad surprise shot through the assembled crowd. They still spoke, however,
in whispers, hardly daring to utter their thoughts aloud.

The silence was suddenly startled by a howl of mingled ecstasy and rage from Marston.

He would have fallen off the bridge, had not the others held him firmly. Then he burst into
a laugh loud and long, and quite as formidable as his howl.

Then he tore away from his friends, and began beating himself over the head.

"Oh!" he cried in accents between a yell and a groan, "what chuckleheads we are! What numskulls!
What jackasses! What double-treble-barrelled gibbering idiots!" Then he fell to beating himself
over the head again.

"What's the matter, Marston, for heaven's sake!" cried his friends, vainly trying to hold him.

"Speak for yourself!" cried others, Belfast among the number.

"No exception, Belfast! You're as bad as the rest of us! We're all a set of unmitigated, demoralized,
dog-goned old lunatics! Ha! Ha! Ha!"

"Speak plainly, Marston! Tell us what you mean!"

"I mean," roared the terrible Secretary, "that we are no better than a lot of cabbage heads,
dead beats, and frauds, calling ourselves scientists! O Barbican, how you must blush for us!
If we were schoolboys, we should all be skinned alive for our ignorance! Do you forget, you
herd of ignoramuses, that the Projectile weighs only ten tons?"

"We don't forget it! We know it well! What of it?"

"This of it: it can't sink in water without displacing its own volume in water; its own volume
in water weighs thirty tons! Consequently, it can't sink; more consequently, it hasn't sunk;
and, most consequently, there it is before us, bobbing up and down all the time under our very
noses! O Barbican, how can we ever venture to look at you straight in the face again!"

Marston's extravagant manner of showing it did not prevent him from being perfectly right.
With all their knowledge of physics, not a single one of those scientific gentlemen had remembered
the great fundamental law that governs sinking or floating bodies. Thanks to its slight specific
gravity, the Projectile, after reaching unknown depths of ocean through the terrific momentum
of its fall, had been at last arrested in its course and even obliged to return to the surface.

By this time, all the passengers of the Susquehanna could easily recognize the object of such
weary longings and desperate searches, floating quietly a short distance before them in the
last rays of the declining day!

The boats were out in an instant. Marston and his friends took the Captain's gig. The rowers
pulled with a will towards the rapidly nearing Projectile. What did it contain? The living
or the dead? The living certainly! as Marston whispered to those around him; otherwise how
could they have ever run up that flag?

The boats approached in perfect silence, all hearts throbbing with the intensity of newly awakened
hope, all eyes eagerly watching for some sign to confirm it. No part of the windows appeared
over the water, but the trap hole had been thrown open, and through it came the pole that bore
the American flag. Marston made for the trap hole and, as it was only a few feet above the
surface, he had no difficulty in looking in.

At that moment, a joyful shout of triumph rose from the interior, and the whole boat's crew
heard a dry drawling voice with a nasal twang exclaiming:

"Queen! How is that for high?"

It was instantly answered by another voice, shriller, louder, quicker, more joyous and triumphant
in tone, but slightly tinged with a foreign accent:

"King! My brave Mac! How is that for high?"

The deep, clear, calm voice that spoke next thrilled the listeners outside with an emotion
that we shall not attempt to portray. Except that their ears could detect in it the faintest
possible emotion of triumph, it was in all respects as cool, resolute, and self-possessed as ever:

"Ace! Dear friends, how is that for high?"

They were quietly enjoying a little game of High-Low-Jack!

How they must have been startled by the wild cheers that suddenly rang around their ocean-prison!
How madly were these cheers re-echoed from the decks of the Susquehanna! Who can describe the
welcome that greeted these long lost, long beloved, long despaired of Sons of Earth, now so
suddenly and unexpectedly rescued from destruction, and restored once more to the wonderstricken
eyes of admiring humanity? Who can describe the scenes of joy and exuberant happiness, and
deep felt gratitude, and roaring rollicking merriment, that were witnessed on board the steamer
that night and during the next three days!

As for Marston, it need hardly be said that he was simply ecstatic, but it may interest both
the psychologist and the philologist to learn that the expression How is that for high? struck
him at once as with a kind of frenzy. It became immediately such a favorite tongue morsel of
his that ever since he has been employing it on all occasions, appropriate or otherwise. Thanks
to his exertions in its behalf all over the country, the phrase is now the most popular of
the day, well known and relished in every part of the Union. If we can judge from its present
hold on the popular ear it will continue to live and flourish for many a long day to come;
it may even be accepted as the popular expression of triumph in those dim, distant, future
years when the memory not only of the wonderful occasion of its formation but also of the illustrious
men themselves who originated it, has been consigned forever to the dark tomb of oblivion!

CHAPTER XXIV.

FAREWELL TO THE BALTIMORE GUN CLUB.

The intense interest of our extraordinary but most veracious history having reached its culmination
at the end of the last chapter, our absorbing chronicle might with every propriety have been
then and there concluded; but we can't part from our gracious and most indulgent reader before
giving him a few more details which may be instructive perhaps, if not amusing.

No doubt he kindly remembers the world-wide sympathy with which our three famous travellers
had started on their memorable trip to the Moon. If so, he may be able to form some idea of
the enthusiasm universally excited by the news of their safe return. Would not the millions
of spectators that had thronged Florida to witness their departure, now rush to the other extremity
of the Union to welcome them back? Could those innumerable Europeans, Africans and Asiatics,
who had visited the United States simply to have a look at M'Nicholl, Ardan and Barbican, ever
think of quitting the country without having seen those wonderful men again? Certainly not!
Nay, more--the reception and the welcome that those heroes would everywhere be greeted with,
should be on a scale fully commensurate with the grandeur of their own gigantic enterprise.
The Sons of Earth who had fearlessly quitted this terrestrial globe and who had succeeded in
returning after accomplishing a journey inconceivably wonderful, well deserved to be received
with every extremity of pride, pomp and glorious circumstance that the world is capable of
displaying.

To catch a glimpse of these demi-gods, to hear the sound of their voices, perhaps even to touch
their hands--these were the only emotions with which the great heart of the country at large
was now throbbing.

To gratify this natural yearning of humanity, to afford not only to every foreigner but to
every native in the land an opportunity of beholding the three heroes who had reflected such
indelible glory on the American name, and to do it all in a manner eminently worthy of the
great American Nation, instantly became the desire of the American People.

To desire a thing, and to have it, are synonymous terms with the great people of the American
Republic.

A little thinking simplified the matter considerably: as all the people could not go to the
heroes, the heroes should go to all the people.

So decided, so done.

It was nearly two months before Barbican and his friends could get back to Baltimore. The winter
travelling over the Rocky Mountains had been very difficult on account of the heavy snows,
and, even when they found themselves in the level country, though they tried to travel as privately
as possible, and for the present positively declined all public receptions, they were compelled
to spend some time in the houses of the warm friends near whom they passed in the course of
their long journey.

The rough notes of their Moon adventures--the only ones that they could furnish just then--circulating
like wild fire and devoured with universal avidity, only imparted a keener whet to the public
desire to feast their eyes on such men. These notes were telegraphed free to every newspaper
in the country, but the longest and best account of the "Journey to the Moon" appeared in the
columns of the New York Herald, owing to the fact that Watkins the reporter had had the adventurers
all to himself during the whole of the three days' trip of the Susquehanna back to San Francisco.
In a week after their return, every man, woman, and child in the United States knew by heart
some of the main facts and incidents in the famous journey; but, of course, it is needless
to say that they knew nothing at all about the finer points and the highly interesting minor
details of the astounding story. These are now all laid before the highly favored reader for
the first time. I presume it is unnecessary to add that they are worthy of his most implicit
confidence, having been industriously and conscientiously compiled from the daily journals
of the three travellers, revised, corrected, and digested very carefully by Barbican himself.

It was, of course, too early at this period for the critics to pass a decided opinion on the
nature of the information furnished by our travellers. Besides, the Moon is an exceedingly
difficult subject. Very few newspaper men in the country are capable of offering a single opinion
regarding her that is worth reading. This is probably also the reason why half-scientists talk
so much dogmatic nonsense about her.

Enough, however, had appeared in the notes to warrant the general opinion that Barbican's explorations
had set at rest forever several pet theories lately started regarding the nature of our satellite.
He and his friends had seen her with their own eyes, and under such favorable circumstances
as to be altogether exceptional. Regarding her formation, her origin, her inhabitability, they
could easily tell what system should be rejected and what might be admitted. Her past, her
present, and her future, had been alike laid bare before their eyes. How can you object to
the positive assertion of a conscientious man who has passed within a few hundred miles of
Tycho, the culminating point in the strangest of all the strange systems of lunar oreography?
What reply can you make to a man who has sounded the dark abysses of the Plato crater? How
can you dare to contradict those men whom the vicissitudes of their daring journey had swept
over the dark, Invisible Face of the Moon, never before revealed to human eye? It was now confessedly
the privilege and the right of these men to set limits to that selenographic science which
had till now been making itself so very busy in reconstructing the lunar world. They could
now say, authoritatively, like Cuvier lecturing over a fossil skeleton: "Once the Moon was
this, a habitable world, and inhabitable long before our Earth! And now the Moon is that, an
uninhabitable world, and uninhabitable ages and ages ago!"

We must not even dream of undertaking a description of the grand fête by which the return of
the illustrious members of the Gun Club was to be adequately celebrated, and the natural curiosity
of their countrymen to see them was to be reasonably gratified. It was one worthy in every
way of its recipients, worthy of the Gun Club, worthy of the Great Republic, and, best of all,
every man, woman, and child in the United States could take part in it. It required at least
three months to prepare it: but this was not to be regretted as its leading idea could not
be properly carried out during the severe colds of winter.

All the great railroads of the Union had been closely united by temporary rails, a uniform
gauge had been everywhere adopted, and every other necessary arrangement had been made to enable
a splendid palace car, expressly manufactured for the occasion by Pullman himself, to visit
every chief point in the United States without ever breaking connection. Through the principal
street in each city, or streets if one was not large enough, rails had been laid so as to admit
the passage of the triumphal car. In many cities, as a precaution against unfavorable weather,
these streets had been arched over with glass, thus becoming grand arcades, many of which have
been allowed to remain so to the present day. The houses lining these streets, hung with tapestry,
decorated with flowers, waving with banners, were all to be illuminated at night time in a
style at once both the most brilliant and the most tasteful. On the sidewalks, tables had been
laid, often miles and miles long, at the public expense; these were to be covered with every
kind of eatables, exquisitely cooked, in the greatest profusion, and free to everyone for twelve
hours before the arrival of the illustrious guests and also for twelve hours after their departure.
The idea mainly aimed at was that, at the grand national banquet about to take place, every
inhabitant of the United States, without exception, could consider Barbican and his companions
as his own particular guests for the time being, thus giving them a welcome the heartiest and
most unanimous that the world has ever yet witnessed.

Evergreens were to deck the lamp-posts; triumphal arches to span the streets; fountains, squirting
eau de cologne, to perfume and cool the air; bands, stationed at proper intervals, to play
the most inspiring music; and boys and girls from public and private schools, dressed in picturesque
attire, to sing songs of joy and glory. The people, seated at the banquetting tables, were
to rise and cheer and toast the heroes as they passed; the military companies, in splendid
uniforms, were to salute them with presented arms; while the bells pealed from the church towers,
the great guns roared from the armories, feux de joie resounded from the ships in the harbor,
until the day's wildest whirl of excitement was continued far into the night by a general illumination
and a surpassing display of fireworks. Right in the very heart of the city, the slowly moving
triumphal car was always to halt long enough to allow the Club men to join the cheering citizens
at their meal, which was to be breakfast, dinner or supper according to that part of the day
at which the halt was made.

The number of champagne bottles drunk on these occasions, or of the speeches made, or of the
jokes told, or of the toasts offered, or of the hands shaken, of course, I cannot now weary
my kind reader by detailing, though I have the whole account lying before me in black and white,
written out day by day in Barbican's own bold hand. Yet I should like to give a few extracts
from this wonderful journal. It is a perfect model of accuracy and system. Whether detailing
his own doings or those of the innumerable people he met, Caesar himself never wrote anything
more lucid or more pointed. But nothing sets the extraordinary nature of this great man in
a better light than the firm, commanding, masterly character of the handwriting in which these
records are made. The elegant penmanship all through might easily pass for copper plate engraving--except
on one page, dated "Boston, after dinner," where, candor compels me to acknowledge, the "Solid
Men" appear to have succeeded in rendering his iron nerves the least bit wabbly.

The palace car had been so constructed that, by turning a few cranks and pulling out a few
bolts, it was transformed at once into a highly decorated and extremely comfortable open barouche.
Marston took the seat usually occupied by the driver: Ardan and M'Nicholl sat immediately under
him, face to face with Barbican, who, in order that everyone might be able to distinguish him,
was to keep all the back seat for himself, the post of honor.

On Monday morning, the fifth of May, a month generally the pleasantest in the United States,
the grand national banquet commenced in Baltimore, and lasted twenty-four hours. The Gun Club
insisted on paying all the expenses of the day, and the city compromised by being allowed to
celebrate in whatever way it pleased the reception of the Club men on their return.

They started on their trip that same day in the midst of one of the grandest ovations possible
to conceive. They stopped for a little while at Wilmington, but they took dinner in Philadelphia,
where the splendor of Broad Street (at present the finest boulevard in the world, being 113
feet wide and five miles long) can be more easily alluded to than even partially described.

The house fronts glittered with flowers, flags, pictures, tapestries, and other decorations;
the chimneys and roofs swarmed with men and boys cheerfully risking their necks every moment
to get one glance at the "Moon men"; every window was a brilliant bouquet of beautiful ladies
waving their scented handkerchiefs and showering their sweetest smiles; the elevated tables
on the sidewalks, groaning with an abundance of excellent and varied food, were lined with
men, women, and children, who, however occupied in eating and drinking, never forgot to salute
the heroes, cheering them lustily as they slowly moved along; the spacious street itself, just
paved from end to end with smooth Belgian blocks, was a living moving panorama of soldiers,
temperance men, free masons, and other societies, radiant in gorgeous uniforms, brilliant in
flashing banners, and simply perfect in the rhythmic cadence of their tread, wings of delicious
music seeming to bear them onward in their proud and stately march.

A vast awning, spanning the street from ridge to ridge, had been so prepared and arranged that,
in case of rain or too strong a glare from the summer sun, it could be opened out wholly or
partially in the space of a very few minutes. There was not, however, the slightest occasion
for using it, the weather being exceedingly fine, almost paradisiacal, as Marston loved to
phrase it.

The "Moon men" supped and spent the night in New York, where they were received with even greater
enthusiasm than at Philadelphia. But no detailed description can be given of their majestic
progress from city to city through all portions of the mighty Republic. It is enough to say
that they visited every important town from Portland to San Francisco, from Salt Lake City
to New Orleans, from Mobile to Charleston, and from Saint Louis to Baltimore; that, in every
section of the great country, preparations for their reception were equally as enthusiastic,
their arrival was welcomed with equal furore, and their departure accompanied with an equal
amount of affectionate and touching sympathy.

The New York Herald reporter, Mr. Watkins, followed them closely everywhere in a palace car
of his own, and kept the public fully enlightened regarding every incident worth regarding
along the route, almost as soon as it happened. He was enabled to do this by means of a portable
telegraphic machine of new and most ingenious construction. Though its motive power was electricity,
it could dispense with the ordinary instruments and even with wires altogether, yet it managed
to transmit messages to most parts of the world with an accuracy that, considering how seldom
it failed, is almost miraculous. The principle actuating it, though guessed at by many shrewd
scientists, is still a profound secret and will probably remain so for some time longer, the
Herald having purchased the right to its sole and exclusive use for fifteen years, at an enormous
cost.

Who shall say that the apotheosis of our three heroes was not worthy of them, or that, had
they lived in the old prehistoric times, they would not have taken the loftiest places among
the demi-gods?

As the tremendous whirl of excitement began slowly to die away, the more thoughtful heads of
the Great Republic began asking each other a few questions:

Can this wonderful journey, unprecedented in the annals of wonderful journeys, ever lead to
any practical result?

Shall we ever live to see direct communication established with the Moon?

Will any Air Line of space navigation ever undertake to start a system of locomotion between
the different members of the solar system?

Have we any reasonable grounds for ever expecting to see trains running between planet and
planet, as from Mars to Jupiter and, possibly afterwards, from star to star, as from Polaris
to Sirius?

Even to-day these are exceedingly puzzling questions, and, with all our much vaunted scientific
progress, such as "no fellow can make out." But if we only reflect a moment on the audacious
go-a-headiveness of the Yankee branch of the Anglo Saxon race, we shall easily conclude that
the American people will never rest quietly until they have pushed to its last result and to
every logical consequence the astounding step so daringly conceived and so wonderfully carried
out by their great countryman Barbican.

In fact, within a very few months after the return of the Club men from the Continental Banquet,
as it was called in the papers, the country was flooded by a number of little books, like Insurance
pamphlets, thrust into every letter box and pushed under every door, announcing the formation
of a new company called The Grand Interstellar Communication Society. The Capital was to be
100 million dollars, at a thousand dollars a share: J.P. BARBICAN, ESQ., P.G.C. was to be President;
Colonel JOSHUA D. M'NICHOLL, Vice-President; Hon. J.T. MARSTON, Secretary; Chevalier MICHAEL
ARDAN, General Manager; JOHN MURPHY, ESQ., Chief Engineer; H. PHILLIPS COLEMAN, ESQ. (Philadelphia
lawyer), Legal Adviser; and the Astrological Adviser was to be Professor HENRY of Washington.
(Belfast's blunder had injured him so much in public estimation, his former partisans having
become his most merciless revilers, that it was considered advisable to omit his name altogether
even in the list of the Directors.)

From the very beginning, the moneyed public looked on the G.I.C.S, with decided favor, and
its shares were bought up pretty freely. Conducted on strictly honorable principles, keeping
carefully aloof from all such damaging connection as the Credit Mobilier, and having its books
always thrown open for public inspection, its reputation even to-day is excellent and continually
improving in the popular estimation. Holding out no utopian inducements to catch the unwary,
and making no wheedling promises to blind the guileless, it states its great objects with all
their great advantages, without at the same time suppressing its enormous and perhaps insuperable
difficulties. People know exactly what to think of it, and, whether it ever meets with perfect
success or proves a complete failure, no one in the country will ever think of casting a slur
on the bright name of its peerless President, J.P. Barbican.

For a few years this great man devoted every faculty of his mind to the furthering of the Company's
objects. But in the midst of his labors, the rapid approach of the CENTENNIAL surprised him.
After a long and careful consultation on the subject, the Directors and Stockholders of the
G.I.C.S. advised him to suspend all further labors in their behalf for a few years, in order
that he might be freer to devote the full energies of his giant intellect towards celebrating
the first hundredth anniversary of his country's Independence--as all true Americans would
wish to see it celebrated--in a manner every way worthy of the GREAT REPUBLIC OF THE WEST!

Obeying orders instantly and with the single-idea'd, unselfish enthusiasm of his nature, he
threw himself at once heart and soul into the great enterprise. Though possessing no official
prominence--this he absolutely insists upon--he is well known to be the great fountain head
whence emanate all the life, order, dispatch, simplicity, economy, and wonderful harmony which,
so far, have so eminently characterized the magnificent project. With all operations for raising
the necessary funds--further than by giving some sound practical advice--he positively refused
to connect himself (this may be the reason why subscriptions to the Centennial stock are so
slow in coming in), but in the proper apportionment of expenses and the strict surveillance
of the mechanical, engineering, and architectural departments, his services have proved invaluable.
His experience in the vast operations at Stony Hill has given him great skill in the difficult
art of managing men. His voice is seldom heard at the meetings, but when it is, people seem
to take a pleasure in readily submitting to its dictates.

In wet weather or dry, in hot weather or cold, he may still be seen every day at Fairmount
Park, Philadelphia, leisurely strolling from building to building, picking his steps quietly
through the bustling crowds of busy workmen, never speaking a word, not even to Marston his
faithful shadow, often pencilling something in his pocket book, stopping occasionally to look
apparently nowhere, but never, you may be sure, allowing a single detail in the restless panorama
around him to escape the piercing shaft of his eagle glance.

He is evidently determined on rendering the great CENTENNIAL of his country a still greater
and more wonderful success than even his own world-famous and never to be forgotten JOURNEY
through the boundless fields of ether, and ALL AROUND THE MOON!

END.