Until the last three or four years, entire union of purpose and concert of action existed among
the American abolitionists. This harmony was first disturbed by the course pursued in the Boston
Liberator. The editor of that paper, William Lloyd Garrison, whose early anti-slavery career
has already been alluded to, and who was deservedly honored by the great body of the abolitionists,
for his sufferings in their cause, and for his triumphant exposure of the oppressive tendencies
of the colonization scheme, had always refused to share with any society or committee, the
editorial responsibility of his journal. About the time referred to, several pieces were inserted
in the Liberator, questioning the generally received opinions on the first day of the week.
These were followed by others on other subjects, and he continued to keep his readers apprised
of the new views of ethics and theology, which from time to time were presented to his own
mind. His paper was not the special organ of any anti-slavery society, yet it was regarded,
by general consent of the friends and enemies of the cause, as the organ of the anti-slavery
movement. The discussion in its columns of new and startling doctrines, on subjects unconnected
with slavery, occasioned many of the former much uneasiness and embarrassment, while it furnished
the latter with new excuses for their enmity, and with the pretence that under cover of abolition,
lurked a design of assailing institutions and opinions justly held in regard throughout the
Christian world.

In the summer of 1837, Sarah and Angelina Grimke visited New England for the purpose of advocating
the cause of the slave, with whose condition they were well acquainted, being natives of South
Carolina, and having been themselves at one time implicated in the system. Their original intention
was to confine their public labors to audiences of their own sex, but they finally addressed
promiscuous assemblies. There,
in all this gorgeous region, burning paradise of New Granada, is the social life active development,
civilization.

Honda to bottom, following the course of the Magdalena, the scene changes entirely. The river,
as to better reveal the wildness of the surrounding region, it is more sluggish on their way,
and far from deepening its channel splits into many arms, widens sometimes as a small inland
sea waters hiding among the foliage of the forest secular, stands in his way a cluster of picturesque
islands, and becoming more unpleasant by the abundance of poisonous insects, the ferocity of their
terrible alligators, Ardentía the beaches devouring sun-baked, and the absolute solitude of their
twists and turns, its marshes and wild ravines sadness, reveals that there has founded the man
power, that humanity has not yet had courage to go into battle with the Empress of Nature
called deserts!

This is the region that I had to cross, following the stream of Magdalena,
to give my farewell to the homeland.

       

* * * * *

The Champagne turned away from the beach, paddles stirred the beat
of the wild cries the bream, and few minutes later, to turn its course
for between monstrous crags Magdalena, lost sight of the last tufts
of coconut trees that indicated the site of the winery.

The man disappeared to give the field exclusively to the vegetation.

Always huge, wide at first, loved everywhere, presenting the most beautiful the high cliffs overlooking
the shore, or in the luxurious halls of vegetables that came to extend their floating lace parasitic
vines on the beach itself, to where it leaves to heat in ignited sand beds, the fearsome and
monstrous crocodile, the terror of the inhabitants wave. And entire forests are secular cedar
with its dark shadow covering a slope failures disrupted by the upheavals of nature, and groups
of towering palms are pavilions where flocks of parrots swinging gorgeous; and on the cliff
of red clay layers composed of mixed layers, rises a group of giant guaduas (bamboo), which for a
thousand thin woven covered Bejuquillo flowers, flexible cast their feathers on the waves of
the river, and open for fans the wind, where a fairy forest has drawn on the most whimsical
green background arabesques and mosaics.

Everywhere luxury and lush vegetation, rich contrasts and variety of forms and colors in nature,
but complete absence of population and culture. If still note inflections in the field, is
because they have not yet completed the ramifications that two main mountain ranges of the Andes
- Central and Eastern - throw on the Magdalena different directions.

After the hills disappear, the forests are horizon, and eye of the traveler, tired and sad, sees
nothing but endless desert.

A nine or ten miles from Honda leads on the left, a small crystal clear river the Guarín, after having
fertilized the most precious imaginable plain - plain fruitful, varied grasses and covered with
immense forests of palm trees of all kinds and Caracolí giant whose
shadow walking in the numerous tribes of solid blacks and tapirs,
pursued by the terrible jaguar, while in the high battlements of the
trees are countless birds air concerts and always surprising.

       

* * * * *

After five hours of sailing, the champagne is docked alongside the steamer Bogota, anchored
in the port wine Rabbit. The landscape, seen from afar, could not be more gorgeous.

On the high cliff, covered in soft green grass, in all its extension, groups of huts bogas
room rustic and poor farmers in the desert in the vast central Winery building, thatched roofing,
single floor, and behind and between houses admirable forest, in
which a green background contrasted different inks beautiful hair
Coconut on the slender neck, palms of the guaduas colossal curling,
the round leaves of mango and mamey, and ramazones stout cedar and
Caracoli those sovereign sumptuous deserts jungles of Colombia.

And at the foot of these rich woods and these huts filled with local color, animated groups
passenger and vogues, so discordant and varied, and forming a curious contrast as The steam
that made champagne and Bogotá and indigenous households. On one side the luxury of nature, untamed
and magnificent, fragrant and full of mystery, the other the luxury of civilization, science,
and the ostentation of force man victorious. There the man primitive, crude, brutal, lazy, semi-wild
and retostado by the tropical sun, ie the Colombian fashion - with all his insolence, his fanaticism
stupid, cowardly arrogance, his incredible laziness and cynicism of language, children of ignorance
rather than the corruption, and more here European, active, intelligent, and elegant white,
often blond with his penetrating gaze and poetry, language, vibrant
and fast, its elevation of spirit, always distinguished forms.

On the one hand the heavy champagne, boat canopies dry palms, 20 to 50 feet long and two or three
wide - a kind of floating hut, - and assembled by many rowers who shout terribly and look like a
legion of wild desert or the miserable Indian Ramada, exposed to the wrath of the winds, the invasions
of the reptiles and wild beasts, or showers the storms of winter, with an extravagant household
as poor, and to cherish family savage appearance, the result of crossing two or three different races,
and for which Christianity is a mixed report of impiety and idolatry, the law an incomprehensible
mess, civilization a thick fog, and the future as the present and
past merge in a situation like torpor, indolence and brutality!

And at the foot of those huts that are under transition to a life that is closer to barbarism progress
still, stood the chimney, the pavilion and masts and picturesque sides Steam Bogota to protest
against barbarism, and prove that even in the midst of the desert and the sublime mystery of an
imponderable nature by force, the man is about to start universal sovereignty, making success
all over the strength of spirit on the power of matter. How well contrasted in the port of Rabbit
steam chimney, releasing their puffs of smoke and the wind carried away by the rain, with the
mast thin secular high and coconut, topped by swinging the breath of that wind the curly palm canopy
and flexible. The coconut tree, planted from colonial times, continued to vegetate, but the
vapor, son of the republic and instrument of freedom, came to wrap
in his smoke screens, greeting him with whistles of the locomotive.

       

* * * * *

The evening offered a wonderful scene, and to increase the incidents of contrast. In Bogotá
steam we met people from very different. The captain was a brave Genoese, Republican, free,
simple and cordial, and the passengers had not only Granadinos few, but British, French and German.
The warmth was established Suddenly, as always happens in every trip, and an Irishman of 62 years,
as big as a tower happy as a boy, drinking first order, as was his duty to honor their nationality,
and mocking and playful as all Irish (except those who are serious), introduced a delicious
disorder on the deck. Sang, danced solo, played violin and drums (instruments which I understand are
not bound by a close fraternity), and finally communicate to all its excellent humor. A few
moments later the nearby jungle echoed with the fiery chorus of all passengers singing (everyone
in the tone in which the podium) and the Marseillaise, the hymn sublime war and freedom, and
God Save the Queen's English, and the songs more or less popular New Granada, Germany and Ireland.
An hour after these edges of civilization and when all reposábamos in our hammocks, amid the
shadows and silence, a hymn entirely different, wild and melancholy, full of mystery, grandeur
and harsh poetry, suddenly exploded, supported by fifty voices hoarse and heavily rhythmic,
in the middle of a forest in neighboring secular beach. Case, intonation, style and mystery of
that song came to contrast beautifully with the hot little songs
before had sprouted from the sides of steam Bogotá.

Although the show I was unknown, I could not resist the temptation of looking at closely. So,
I jumped out of my hammock, I invited two friends and I went ashore, taking the direction we
indicated the song itself and a red light that glowed in the shadows of thick the forest. The
beach was deserted and not a fashionable sleeping on the awnings
of champagne tied to an anchor of iron and thick trunks.

After walking for a trip two hundred meters, by the middle of the woods, find an extremely
interesting show.

Under the canopy of a huge cedar tree, in a clean and sandy, there was a large fire fed with thick
trunks, conifer branches and large chunks of amber, junior, which is very abundant in those endless
forests. The flare was gorgeous, the perfume rich, and the trees cast shadows Hadan play with
light in an admirable fashion. At around the campfire were kneeling in confusion as fifty people
- men and women, old and young, locals and bream - and all at once with a voice raucous and rhythmic,
but too expressive about their accent, sang a hymn mortuary!

... Novena was a neighbor who had died three days earlier and whose body was buried at a short
distance away.

The song was a set of prayers in verse, extravagant, made by the boatmen and always used around
novena, and the chorus, so incomprehensible in language as strong
in intonation, consisted of a species of quatrain verses of six syllables.

Three men first sang a verse, all responded with the refrain, and then three women sang another,
and so on.

I confess that in this wild scene, but full of the charm of faith and piety, found more poetry
and more religion in the songs of steam Bogotá.

       The intonation was deep and somber, solemn, in spite of its rustic
harmony, and I was in that scene a big impression and teaching.

Poetry is unquestionably the most sublime manifestations of the soul their relationship with God,
man and nature.

* * * * *

On February 2, Bogotá steam picked up his anchor, he released his whistle morning, similar to
the cry the wild, and shaking with iron wings the murky waves of Magdalena, slid rapidly among
the dense green canopies of the jungle, leaving his brilliant marked foam floating trail in
illuminating the morning sun.

What impression so profound experience the heart of the patriot, dreamer of progress, when
trusts for the first time, as a traveler, to the second initiative, to the invisible spirit
of humanity, transfused into mechanical power, called the steam! The wave humiliates, running
fugitive, to the conqueror that crosses without fear it and lashes
the wheels of her triumphal car, the monster in the water seeks its
hidden caves in abyss, realizing that the empire of the liquid element
belongs to an infinitely higher, and the hurricane, that Jupiter formless
breath destroyer, which prevails on solitudes of the wilderness of
the jungle, the sand and ocean, seems tame in the presence of opposed
to a travel writer who shocks supreme creation of the mysterious force
science triumphant!

The Vapor! Ah! what a sight for a man of faith! That summed up for me marvel all progress and
glory of man, all the divinity of this being made to moral likeness of God, carries in his mind
the immortal attributes intelligent and thoughtful soul, Each wheel, each cylinder, each member
of the machine Bogotá seemed the picture of each of muscles and vital organs of man, there was concreted
the whole story humanity, because that machine was inspired by the
man motion, strength, tenacity, genius, faith, life, spirit, light,
civilization, progress unlimited and eternal.

My soul was dominated by a deep meditation. Sitting on the foredeck, the side of the wheelhouse,
looked with great pleasure the transparent and blue sky, high the Andes mountains, forests, river
and how the picture was, and from the bottom of my grateful heart, bless all revolutions, the heroic
efforts and dedication of men and peoples, giving his blood to the
past, we have won to posterity the progress of today and the future.

       

* * * * *

Nare to the port of all is varied and picturesque, Rabbit down. The neighborhood the mountainous
terrain allows inflections, and so soon the traveler is surprised In view of the huge forests
or small plains that end at the river, and admire intermediary the lush vegetation, high petrified
sandstone rocks, the dark mouths the Tigrito and other streams whose channel seems an endless
grotto verdure waves Blue and Black rivers abundant and La Miel, which support one and other side
of the tape Turkey to its current, without mixing with the Magdalena at the beginning, the picturesque
village Buena-Vista, located on a ravine and surrounded by high walls
of a centuries-old forest, dark background on which the masts are
drawn from the coconut and the white wall of the chapel parish and
a thousand other things that contribute to give the landscape variety
and charm.

Nare little above the monotony begins and guarumos endless forests, tree light gray that looks
like a ghost in the skeleton, to give the banks an aspect of sadness and sterility. The sun burns
like an ember, heat, 36 degrees is sufocante, and desolation of nature begins. Nare is a district of
population and look miserable unhealthy, and that except two or three families, it contains
but rowers and people of Indo-African race. HOWEVER, it is a very important point for internal
trade, for the State scale of Antioquia, and a nearby nice, fairly
flow is navigated by barges and canoes seven leagues above its mouth.

Nare was augmented in the number of passengers with a sturdy Scottish, mine operator, a dentist,
which inevitably turned out to be Yankee, and Antioquia that, as soon as it entered steamed,
promoted a raffle, and began his speculations. The Antioquia, descendants mostly of an expedition
of Jews from the time of Philip III, are the Israelites New Granada,
in point of business and travel, even on open and empty bottles are
essentially British.

One mile down is the famous Angostura Nare, terror of the sailors, and out of it begins the region
of the gorgeous islands of vegetation, more and more numerous, because the Magdalena, widening
a lot about an area of ​​low-level flooding, endless as plain jungle diseminasus water in all
directions. For the rest, nature loses all their variety, - the vegetation, subject to floods,
appears skeleton, colorless and rough, and the hills out of sight
entirely.

Is no longer there but the desert immense, parched and no majesty or beauty.

On February 3 impressions what pleasant surprises, and pest and fatigue! First the encounter
the beautiful Vapor Antioquia, which rose from Barranquilla, light, color painted alive, like
a big bird, barely touching the waves of Magdalena. And there's screams happiness, the noisy greetings
among the passengers of both steam whistles gallant valves of locomotives, and teasing each
other sailors, spicy and original in the extreme.

Steam Antioquia had a strong loading of senators and representatives, undoubtedly uninsured,
and therefore his trip was doubly interesting.

Then, the beautiful river Carare, leading to the right, deep blue, with a vegetation fresh and
gorgeous, navigable by steam, and serving as the means of direct
communication between Magdalena and the peoples of the former province
of Velez, ie the states Santander and Boyaca.

This river is very beautiful future, and not too late trade Granada will give you all the attention
it deserves.

Carare below appears to oppose, also beautiful river, whose sands studded with gold serve of
milk to a gentle stream, deep and clear. And what memories of seeing the mouth of that river!
It was there that Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada, conquistador of the
New Kingdom of Granada, entered in 1536, dominating as supreme incredible
difficulties and dangers, history, to be fair, you should consider
this issue as the most heroic, the most extraordinary conquistador
anyone has ever driven and accomplished.

If Yélez territories Relief and sent to the Magdalene its beautiful water quota of rivers and
Opon Carare, both browsers and delicious, the highlands of Tunja and Pamplona contribute their
wealth of Sogamoso or Colorado River, which flows near the new port of Barrancabermeja. Here,
Magdalena highly enriched with the wealth of so beautiful rivers, making grandiose proportions that
make it impressive, while the beautiful islands that arise here and there, one very large (the
Morales), give the landscape, beautifully lit, an incredible resemblance
to the lower Danube, judging from the I've sailed.

Below the State of Antioquia Sogamoso contribute (in addition to the Honey and Nare rivers) with
the romantic and beautiful river of the Scimitar, which recalls the eternal storms prevailing minerals
in the hills of a ridge of the same name that separates the region of Antioquia those of Simití
and Majagual. The rowers have concerns that a thousand bizarre hidden river bed of gold dust
and dark and impenetrable woods, and have many legends, making the sign of the cross on the dangerous
metal seekers who, having gone to within the course of the river, have not gone back to look
more in Mompos. The inhabitants of Saint-Paul village situated at a short distance from the confluence
of the Scimitar, to make responsible Mohan or Huan, terrible god of the caves and the great wells
of rivers, of the misdeeds committed by the jaguars, snakes and solid blacks to the detriment
of the unwary seekers gold. HOWEVER, I must state that the Mohan such a character does not strike
me as absurd as belief, if you notice that the bottom line is the Devil, but a devil poetic, highly
romantic, and therefore superior, under the artistic point of view
and spiritual, the mundane and vulgar devil sends us believe the Holy
Mother Church.

Saint-Paul (and incidentally there to say that almost all people below are sanctified by a name)
is a funny little town, very poor and humble, but a picturesque local color. First is the red
cliff overlooking the Magdalena, dotted with huts fishermen of the strangest forms, then the
village, consisting of two straight roads 40 or 50 very whitewashed thatched cottages, all separated
and the shade of a multitude coconut, mango and orange trees, behind the dark gray strip of dense
jungle, and ultimately term the distant mountains that separate western
Antioquia state of immense valley Magdalena.

    "In passing from thy premises, we looked in upon the Triennial
    Convention of the Baptists of the United States, then in session
    in the city of Baltimore, where I found slave-holding ministers
    of high rank in the church, urging successfully the exclusion
    from the Missionary Board of that Society, of all those who, in
    principle and practice, were known to be decided abolitionists;
    and the results of their efforts satisfied me that the darkest
    picture of slavery is not to be found in the jail of the
    slave-trader, but rather in a convocation of professed ministers
    of the Gospel of Christ, expelling from the Board of a Society
    formed to enlighten the heathen of other nations, all who
    consistently labor for the overthrow of a system which denies a
    knowledge of the Holy Scriptures to near three millions of
    heathen at home!

    "But allow me, in a spirit, as I trust, of Christian kindness,
    to entreat thee not to seek excuses for thy own course in the
    evil conduct of others. Thou hast already reached the middle
    period of life--the future is uncertain. By thy hopes of peace
    here and hereafter, let me urge thee to abandon this occupation.
    It is not necessary to argue its intrinsic wickedness, for thou
    knowest it already. I would therefore beseech thee to listen to
    that voice which, I am persuaded, sometimes urges thee to 'put
    away the evil of thy doings,' to 'do justice and love mercy,'
    and thus cease to draw upon thyself the curse which fell upon
    those merchants of Tyre, who 'traded in the persons of men.'
    That these warnings of conscience may not longer be neglected on
    thy part, is the sincere wish of one who, while he abhors thy
    occupation, feels nothing but kindness and good will towards
    thyself.

    "Thy friend,

    "JOSEPH STURGE.

    "New York, 6th Month 30th, 1841."

The Baptist Convention alluded to in the foregoing letter was one whose proceedings I regarded
with considerable interest, for it had been generally understood that the ministers delegated
from the South, as well as some of those from the Northern States, intended to exclude abolitionists
from every office on the missionary board, and especially to remove my friend, Elon Galusha,
a distinguished Baptist minister, from the station of vice-president, for the offence of attending
the London Anti-Slavery Convention, and more particularly for supporting the following resolutions
of that assembly:

    "1. That it is the deliberate and deeply-rooted conviction of
    this Convention, which it thus publicly and solemnly expresses
    to the world, that slavery, in whatever form, or in whatever
    country it exists, is contrary to the eternal and immutable
    principles of justice, and the spirit and precepts of
    Christianity; and is, therefore a sin against God, which
    acquires additional enormity when committed by nations
    professedly Christian, and in an age when the subject has been
    so generally discussed, and its criminality so thoroughly
    exposed.

    "2. That this Convention cannot but deeply deplore the fact,
    that the continuance and prevalence of slavery are to be
    attributed in a great degree to the countenance afforded by many
    Christian churches, especially in the Western world, which have
    not only withheld that public and emphatic testimony against the
    crime which it deserves, but have retained in their communion,
    without censure, those by whom it is notoriously perpetrated.

    "3. That this Convention, while it disclaims the intention or
    desire of dictating to Christian communities the terms of their
    fellowship, respectfully submits that it is their incumbent duty
    to separate from their communion all those persons who, after
    they have been faithfully warned in the spirit of the gospel,
    continue in the sin of enslaving their fellow-creatures, or
    holding them in slavery--a sin, by the commission of which, with
    whatever mitigating circumstances it may be attended in their
    own particular instance, they give the support of their example
    to the whole system of compulsory servitude, and the unutterable
    horrors of the slave trade. Great
rider and a good hunter, he had never boasted of a bullfighter. What we did have a hobby, for
two or three years of his earliest youth, was to imitate Leotard, and with such success, flying
through the air, in the combined traps, like a witch. It was not without however, but a nice
guy, dark, beautiful eyes, dark-haired and twisted whiskers shiny and well groomed beard.

Having lectured against queues reported a series of anecdotes that occurred to him or to someone
you know, in foreign lands where it came from. Some of these stories were hunting or riding, the
most were of love, finding means of disseminating their triumphs and conquests, who pretended
to believe or believed their partners, or rather, his audience Count it was of those who, whether
they speak beautifully, fatigue and offend the least suffered, monopolizing the use of the word
and not consenting, as they say, that no goal but they trick or spoon.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was funny in conversation. Speaking, loved
or dazzled. Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history, although it was
a lie, and the audience used to believe it too. It seems that the imagination and memory were
in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended.

Its fine Figure nice manners and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything. Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies
English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg Saint-Germain,
and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost
privacy, it was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking
at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of love.
"

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself, holding his opinion
grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women
two tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the saw, and something had heard
and continued to hear of his diatribe and dispute, because occasionally whispering and laughed,
as if their comments to the conversation of those who came back.

Conde had not seen the face of any of those two women. The costume of them all eye was remarkably
vulgar and profane. The one dressed in black silk light and the other a dark suit of calico
poor, the two were on their blanket.

There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole being and even the environment that
surrounded and enveloped those women that, without managing the explanation, the Count seemed
to feel like a magnetic current, and got to imagine that these two women were challenging his
assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason, an
argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish
statements.

Conde also warned that both had nice body and graceful movements unaffected and wearing the
skirt gathered enough to not blemished or powdering awkwardly sand and so they could descry
from time to time her tiny feet, sharp, high torso and footwear dedication botincillos funny.

The
desire to see their faces was felt immediately in the mind of Conde, but they, perhaps suspecting
that desire, not turn their face, may to counter and make you more alive.

The Count had to walk faster and move ahead of them to look at them. Then he saw with a pleasant
surprise that both were pretty. In the face were declaring that they were sisters. They looked
to the air like we call family, and were all very different.

The older and smaller of stature, of the silk dress, was brunette, with eyes and black hair,
as a cherry red lips and white teeth that showed laughing.

The smaller, calico dress, was taller and seemed to have four or five years younger than the
other, ten and eight at most, was white and blonde with blue eyes, and properly looked like
an angel. No laughed so much as most, and was more serious and less carefree. He had a singular
expression sweetness, serenity and quiet contentment.

Count well known that unknown to him, nor were they of what they call the society or could not
be placed in any of the levels of the hierarchy of the straight.

His piercing gaze and knew at once that experienced were both middle
class, or poor, or very modest, that must have been married brunette
and the blonde was single.

Saw anyone accompanying them, and thought he noticed they were in
a hurry and have come as repentant alone and that if one side were
flattered to have self-esteem as the attention of disdainful lover,
the other went suspicious, almost appalled that little triumph.

Among the friends of Conde had boasted of knowing that all Madrid, high, low and medium, provided
the people belonged to women. The Count asked who were those girls. All looked on, and they all
said they did not know.

- Are outsiders - added one.

- Will be new to London - said another.

- Must be either Malaga or Seville - exclaimed a third.

- Sevillanas
son - said the Count -.

I have no doubt.

He made a pompous eulogy of Seville in general with clear allusions to the two who went before
and that such was, and spoke much louder voice that he had used in the rant, so you might hear
them and serve his speech as a function of relief.

But the ladies seemed to fear the praise and not satire. No sooner were heard commending tightened
step, and taking advantage of a moment of confusion and noise, tried
to slip away.

The Count was stare at them.

He followed that movement, he saw that were in the garden advantage and also the noise he was
separated from his friends, as if by chance the lost, and took the street of trees where he saw
the two young men had rushed looking the garden gate.

It seemed ridiculous that a man so run like the running then desalted after two poor girls. Earl was
not considered aristocratic and arrogant, but rookie or ensign estudiantillo
fresh out of school.

But despite its judicious reflections, the Count was in pursuit of these women, and even formed
the purpose of talking about saliesen the garden so that, in the
case of a sofión, which he deserved for his sick vulgar bad parenting,
not subjects might see him it might have.

Leaving the garden he saw the Count to his valet, he would call the driver to come over victory.

-
Ramon! - Said the Count -. Go and wait at the door of the Swift-Club.

A little victory snapped.

The count continued to rise to the two women.

Two or three times approached them and tried to speak. He looked at them, he faced them, almost
stopped, but was so ugly, so plebeian as rude, abuse and that they were alone two women and
chase and want to talk to them, which was contained and did not speak.

In the midst of this hesitation, the two women were passing an empty car. Seized it quickly
gave the driver the address, paid for in advance and double pulverized, and breaks out the
way, up the Calle de Alcala and then entered by the Turk.

The Count wanted to follow, but his car had gone to the Fast, and
no rental cars appeared.

Remained, then, our hero standing like a fool at the height of the fountain of Cibeles and
mocking of himself by the series of silly and childish he had done.

Who knows if it would be some grisette, some teachers of primary education
that had come to competitions, or something equally corny, those two
had been doing what nor ever did queens and empresses?

III

The Count of Alhedín was careful to have the Swift-Club thwarted his attempted prosecution and
the disdain with which he had tried the two unknown.

"I returned to the Jardines del Buen Retiro - said to himself -, and find out there tomorrow
last year. They will return. Do not awaken the greed of friends with excessive praise. God knows
how many would endeavor to conquer, and I would be hindered, if not beat me. I'm not in love with
either. I never believed in sudden passion. But my Curiosity is extraordinary. Each is beautiful in
style and full of unlearned elegance. I do not know what decide if the blonde or the brunette.
The same indecision increases my desire to see them again. What we observe in the new view
and decide for me one or the other. Truth is that this preference only comes time for something. I
spend my time with both, but we must start by me want one.

If they were not sisters, if they did not walk together, or could I rush to the time the two
victories, but remain as they are, should be in order. "

This soliloquy, made and repeated in myriad ways, but in substance
the same always, he held the thought of Count for two days and two
nights.

Hallábanle distracted peers. He apologized, without stating the real reason distraction.

Meanwhile, or on the streets or in the gardens at night, or anywhere else, became Count to
see the two beauties, more than wanted. And that he had a keen eye and always going to care if he
spent nearly escaped him.

The Count thought endowed with prodigious wisdom to find mysteries to learn about qualities of
people just for the track or trace.

Was judged as seasoned and expert in As regards human society as
the ancient sages said lone East they were in it depends on Mother
Nature.

Zadig had understood and described all conditions and circumstances
of the horse of the King and Queen's dog just by looking at their
footprints stamped into the ground.

The Count, in his art, was nothing less than Zadig, and took for sure he really say who the
two strangers simply because if any seen for a moment, but I did
not think, I did not wonder about this point.

Another more vanity than vanity to be as expert stopped him. The vanity of believing left
interesting for those women, who had seen him and had noticed his pursuit, return after looking
for him, first yaw or repentant or unrepentant, but following the same purposes as the leak, according
to Conde, had been very much in place, so penalty of having humiliated them to pass easily tired
and light, lending from the first time accompanied by left who knew neither the name, only because
they had repaired certainly he was rich, titled and have a car.

The Condesito would not, therefore, not bother with the thought in looking at the two beauties, because
I was pretty sure they would return to find him.

As there again or the next night or the night after, he was crushed Condesito and even offended.

In
his conceit forged several hypotheses to explain further, and involuntary and spite of the
unknown, its absence from the Gardens.

"Who knows - I thought the Count -. Maybe the husband did not get out. You may have the married
a boy with measles. "

In short, all supposed to not assume that perfectly free will by leaving to go the girls on
a date which, implicitly, but clearly, he so handsome, so distinguished,
so illustrious, so rich and seductive, had given them to the Gardens
and can not be understood or course in relations with them not to
miss the respect and social considerations.

With so comforting speeches Count hardly dominated his impatience, went two nights at the Gardens,
and also saw the ladies.

And then decided to use their wisdom and their activity to look.

"If you flee, if they hide - he said - is because I fear. The look for me. I will find them.
"

Justified and the work that discourse would be taken, which was running in Condesito summary we
will expose.

The Seville was unknown.

They could be Malaga, as assumed that ignorant. Confusing to Seville with Malaga is a crass error
as a philanderer Andalusian that women should know as a hunter mistaking a quail with a dove. It was
also clear that she was married, among other reasons because, if both single, would not go alone.
The marriage was the brunette. In this no doubt. Known in older, and in other evidence that
together all reached the most complete certainty. Who was married the brunette? Both were outsiders,
new to Madrid, since no one knew.

It was not probably had come to Madrid to have fun, because then the husband, farmer, rancher, merchant
or something, some people in Andalusia and Seville itself, should
have accompanied and he also amuse and curiosearía.

The husband should be a busy man. What occupation could have a husband in Madrid, but of a
government employment? The Count therefore decided that the husband was an employee. Calculated,
finally, by air had something mysterious the unknown, of some concern to note that he had believed
in them, that night they were in the Gardens had been without previous permission of the husband,
improvising that trip at a time when he was missing from home, save loyalty to tell the prudent
course for to approve and legitimize the fact.

If all this assumption was accurate, the husband sometimes worked at night, home away from
home. At night he works in many offices; but none are as common as the long evenings in the Interior
or Finance.

The husband was, therefore, employed in one of these two ministries.

Discovered the enigma to this point, needed to know the name of the husband and where he lived;
but this was very easy.

Before the appropriate investigations, as the name of a person and
number and street of a house can not be guessed by mere speech, even
if you have an understanding excruciating, Count, fond of exercising
his thought also below.

Fashionable society is easier, more open in Madrid than in any other European capital, even for
women. Here no one asks, before letting go, whether it is or less noble birth, more or less rich.
The most haughty woman does not disdain to friend not ashamed to be accompanied by their daughters
or wife of a clerk anyone provided that their manners and are not unpresentable facade. Poverty
is forgiven dress also, as no notice is made by presumed abominable extravagance or bad taste.
No leading lady or semi-major not a welcome to the most modest provincial, who met in the field
or in some bathrooms or in some provincial town, and that the call premium and the treated
as a relative, if by chance it is.

"In Madrid - thinking the Count - many people now lack in the summer, but Madrid has not been
desert. My girls - so he called them now - are a delicacy of beautiful: they are natural and
inborn distinguished. How is that they have friends or relatives
among the people I deal?

How is that, having so many people in Madrid, Seville, or has been in Seville, my girls know
anyone? In any house I have. Why live so isolated? At the same Sevilla must have lived in greater
isolation. "

Count inferred here that their unknown, although Seville, had lived
away from the world or timid, or too much poverty, or extravagance
of her husband.

Then going from thought to action, leaving the speculative method
and appealing to study and investigation of the facts, the Count,
who had good relations everywhere, was the chief of staff of the Ministry
of Finance and asked for the names of the most Recent employees in
all those units were.

The list was long, because long time that there had been changes, renewal and transfer of
employees, but not missing an officer on staff who had some news
biographies of all new.

"Don Anacleto Perez 'he said, for example, the list .-- Where did it come? - Wondering Count .-- De la Coruña
- answered the officer .-- Are you married? - .-- For you single
out - replied Count.

So the officer was indicating various names, until he said: - Don Braulio Gonzalez .-- Where come?
- asked the Count .-- De Sevilla - said the officer .-- Are you married? - asked again Count
.-- It is more than married - said the officer -: we can describe as a bigamist, because more
his wife, who is very pretty, has with him his sister, even prettier, if possible, and fair
as some candles .-- That is what I seek - said the Count. Then again recommended, since even
before I had done the chief of staff, secrecy regarding its investigation.

By the officer also knew the Count Don Braulio did no more than a month that was Madrid, which enjoyed
a salary of 3,000 pesetas, less discount, who had a reputation of excellent employee, that would
justify to work which the Minister entrusted to him, that he was
a man of forty-five to fifty years of age but looked older, because
it was rather bald and very sickly, and that only took three years
of marriage had no children; his wife, Dona Beatriz, and his wife's
sister, named Ines, were a place the province of Cordoba, where he
had been Manager of Revenue, that shortly after wedding had been moved
to Seville to rise, which in Seville he and his family had lived far
removed from the treatment of people, who now lived on Olive Street
in third floor of a house whose number is also given, and they were
all so ferrets, barely were treated in Madrid with a living soul.

Count
heard all, returned to his thoughts and calculations. Had taken the
first step; but it was necessary to take the second. I already knew
who was dealing with, but that's nothing served if he failed to communicate
wisely with Don Braulio and his family.

The Count was far from being
a reckless infinity. While She did not draw any danger, if it did
not hurt having to risk the skin, always feared a coup in vague, do
some anything that might put you in awkward and ridiculous situation.
This was more afraid, not that of a naked sword, but fifteen machine
guns were firing at him.

Given this its natural condition, the difficulties
were not small.

How to be present in a house where one of its kind,
and perhaps no other no any class, came to visit? What excuse to claim
snapped right out in the house of those poor people?

The presentation
is the most right to know and treat people, but the Count did not
feel the shameless enough to be presented there.

Would you write
a love note to enter into relationships? 

Letters of this kind, use,
usefulness, disadvantages and advantages, the Count, who, according
to we have said, was very circumspect and tidy, had made its laws
and made their considerations, to which always tried to adjust their
behavior.

Write a love for women seemed an excellent resource. Almost
all give more solemnity and the significance of what he writes that
what they speak. Many things that offend or blush when they hear the
weigh and ponder, and delight them with loving pleasure when read.
If they answer a gallant speech to the intended word, it's easy avoid
serious issues, taking it all a laugh. The writing gives or imposes
on the Conversely, almost inevitably seriously. Word answer, leaving
a glimpse of speech atom beam or ray of hope, just committed. The
word is vague, a point less than spiritual passes through the air
and enters the ear without a trace. Even in memory is deleted and
is confusing. Perhaps his greatest claim, its most substantial significance
is itself, but the accent was pronounced, the fugitive gesture that
was accompanied in looking smooth and fast, in a lightning instant
of the eyes, when the word came out lips. After
    this I should not be surprised to hear it doubted whether there
    ever was such a building, or if there was, whether it was ever
    destroyed; but unluckily the ruined walls are still standing,
    and if I had my way, there they should stand, until slavery
    shall be abolished, which it will be, soon after your East India
    possessions can grow cotton for six cents per lb. by free
    labor."

To resume the narrative: I paid a visit to the widow of Joseph Lancaster, who, with her three
children by a former husband, are living in great obscurity in the suburbs of this city.

I returned to New York on the 10th, for the purpose of being in the city at the time when the
religious and benevolent anniversaries are held, and of meeting parties who attend them. Here
I had the pleasure of meeting with several warm-hearted abolitionists from distant parts of
the country. The first meeting I attended was the anniversary of the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery
Society, which, though held at a distance from the centre of the city, in consequence of the
pre-engagement of the New York Tabernacle, was well attended, and I believe gave general satisfaction.
I was present also at two other of its meetings. I attended several adjourned sittings of a
convention called for the purpose of organizing a political "Liberty party," on the grand principle
of the abolition of slavery. The chief business in hand was to nominate a President and Vice
President of the United States, for the next election, and the choice fell upon my friend James
G. Birney, for President, and Thomas Morris, late United States Senator from Ohio, for Vice
President. A plan was arranged for putting in nomination abolition candidates for every office
in the free States, down to that of constable.

I listened to the discussions that took place with considerable interest, as there are some
valuable friends to the cause, men, whose opinions justly carry great weight, who do not think
this the best means of bringing political influence to bear upon the question, but who would
prefer voting for such anti-slavery candidates, as might be nominated by either of the two
great parties already existing, or in the absence of any such candidate would decline voting
at all. My own bias was in favor of this course, since it was the one pursued in Great Britain,
and which had been so eminently successful in the general election of 1833. I became convinced,
however, that the "third party" has strong reasons in its favor, and that in various important
respects the abolitionists of the United States are differently circumstanced in regard to
elections from those of my own country; and it must not be forgotten that many of the men who
pledged themselves on the hustings in England were not faithful at the time of trial. At the
last sitting of the Convention, I stated the advantage we had found in England, when we wished
to carry any specific measure, of a personal interview with the members of the legislature,
who might state facts to them and answer their objections. It was immediately suggested to
send a deputation to Albany, where the senate and assembly of the State of New York were then
in session, to promote the repeal of two iniquitous laws affecting people of color, and which
were to be brought before the consideration of the Houses. One of them is known as the "nine
months law." By its provisions a slave-holder could bring his negro "with his own consent"
into this free State, and keep him there in slavery for nine months! At the expiration of the
time it was of course very easy by a short journey to a neighboring State, to obtain a new
license, and thus perpetuate slave-holding in the State of New York. The other law was an act
restricting the elective franchise of men of color, to those possessing a fixed amount of property,
no such restriction existing in the case of white men. This suggestion was adopted by the Convention,
and a deputation appointed, with what success will be seen hereafter.

In order to give a general idea of the course pursued by the "Liberty party," I subjoin a statement
of the plan of operation issued by a Philadelphia committee.

    "PLAN OF OPERATION.

    "A national committee to meet at Utica, to have a general care
    and oversight of the cause throughout the nation, and to act as
    a central corresponding committee.--State committees, to perform
    similar duties, in their States.--County committees, the same in
    their respective counties.--City and district committees, the
    same in their respective cities and districts.--Township and
    ward committees, to have the particular charge of their
    respective townships or wards.

    "This duty may be performed by their appointing a sub-committee,
    to consist of one member for each block, square, section,
    sub-division, or neighborhood, whose duty it will be to endeavor
    to abolitionize his sub-division; or, at least, ascertain, as
    far as practicable, how many of the legal voters will vote the
    Liberty ticket, and transmit the number to his city or county
    committee, which is to forward the number of voters in their
    city or county to their Stale committee, and the State committee
    is to forward the number of voters in their State to the
    national committee; and also to distribute, or cause to be
    distributed, in his sub-division, such tracts, circulars,
    notices, tickets, &c., as shall be furnished by his superior
    committee for that purpose.

    "Each committee is to communicate with its next superior
    committee once a year, or oftener, if required, and to meet at
    such time and place not less than once a month, as shall be
    agreed upon between it and its superior committee." Would he have died in India or had emigrated from India
to another distant region, forgetting the forest ingratitude Liebestein Castle and Poldy friendship?

In
these distressing doubt spent the entire month of April.

It was the first of May.

Poldy, almost desperate, and of seeing the stork came, not However, as usual, between ten
and eleven in the morning, at the edge of the lagoon.

Barely two minutes that was there, absorbed, pensive and melancholy setting long please look at
the calm water, when a hasty sound of wings coming closer his whole
body shook and delight your soul with pleasant shock.

The white stork had been flying, had fallen a few steps away, and I approached him with their
slow and stately and giving way to the peak of castañetazos that used to always say hello.

Indescribable was the joy of Poldy. His impatience was greater than his joy. Driven for their impatience,
threw his hands around the neck of wading birds, and began looking for the cord or tape from
which depends the answer to your letter expected. What a cruel affliction had then! No letter was pending.
No tape or cord was hanging. A point was Poldy to mourn with rage. But the stork, as if divining
her feelings, opened the long wings and to the point with joy and
surprise Poldy warned that the stork had under the left wing and very
well tied there with a strong and subtle braid feathers hid under
a spliff or long thin roll.

Poldy seized him immediately and felt it was very light, which was sealed and stamped and was
so strong rope seal and was so well-tied, he could not break not
occur without scissors.

On the exterior surface of the roll, it looked written in language German songs: To His Excellency
the gracious Miss Countess of Liebestein Poldy.

He Poldy some love to the stork in order to show his gratitude, and even some say he kissed her head
in glad tidings of good message. Poldy then ran to the castle lock herself in her room, cut the
tape with scissors and see what the roll contained. There on the roll several objects Poldy was successively
examined. It was a sight picture, neat and brilliantly illuminated with colors, an extensive
and magnificent Oriental room, full Pilgrim's workmanship and elegance. In any one could see and
admire stunning lap of luxury unblemished and very tasteful. It seems that was what the prodigious
underground chamber where Aladdin find the Genie Lamp. Hung from the walls bright weapons, Indian,
Chinese and Japanese, hanging ceiling lamps carved gold were around vases, jars and glasses,
artfully carved of precious metals, very rare jaspers of ancient porcelain and work ataujía
or fine gems, ivory, bronze and other rich materials. Several idols degustation of strange and
symbolic ways, and characterized the authorized stay. There were represented Agni, the god of fire,
Kamala or Kamela, Venus in India, whose name come, in our vulgar
language Camama, camel and its derivatives, and there were also Indra
Varuna and even the Trimurti.

First, on a splendid Alcatifa of Persia, and sitting on soft cushions Silk, beautifully embroidered,
resembled a man in the prime of youth, covered of white and rosy robe and crowned the gentle head
of a large turban, candid also, on which stood a plume or tuft of curly feathers beautiful,
and grasped the plume the turban by a huge goatee of pearls, diamonds and rubies, which was worth
an empire. Before the man had several tables dwarfs, where golden and embossed trays, in light
baskets, in slender vases and chalices glazed, offered gift of sight of smell and taste, liqueurs,
preserves and spiced fruit. On one side and some distance the young lord, was a rich and elegant
hookah, which was flexible tube luengo young Mr. grabbed by the end, revealing the thick amber
mouthpiece, pinned to the tube by a ring of sparkling emeralds. On the opposite side of the hookah,
but much closer the young lord, rose, very funny pose, our familiar friend the white stork, Poldy
whose sight not a little pleased. Not so pleased, it was of anger and shock her, but repressed
anger, attributing what he saw long-standing and essential Oriental fashion, in the back of the room
came three Bayadere, with Apsaras suit or immortal nymphs, which wove voluptuous dance, desceñido
the transparent and light clothing, arms and feet bare, wearing down the throats of the feet and
arms, anklets and bracelets, and also revealing the back and turned round and firm breasts. Several
musicians, dressed as they say they dress the sky Gandarbas and musicians of Indra, accompanied
dance with harps, flutes and violins, and erotic songs.

Poldy was dazzled at the sight all this and formed the highest concept of radiance and wealth
of the Indian lord. Of its design staff is what the photograph does not idea was entirely satisfactory.
And it was that not the purpose of photography, and below which there was this sign: my way
of life in the East.

Another smaller picture, appeared as the young man with clearer details. Was alone, full body,
but without any attachment. His suit, although on picturesque, was more European than Indian,
but the strange hat on his head and was they call heroes in the Philippines. Dolman jacket
or tight to his body and adorned with frogs, revealed the robust forms of his torso and arms. The
pants were wide and short. From the knee to the soles wore calf boots. Earrings the wide Charpa,
also leather, belting his waist, had a gun to one side and On the other hand a large hunting
knife. In the right hand glove leather cover had double-barreled shotgun, which rested on the
ground and on which he supported. For low had a sign saying: when going to hunt tigers.

Finally, there was a third picture that left nothing to be desired. There was the young Mr. clear,
accurate and clearly portrayed. His face was so beautiful. The eyes were large and expressive,
the beard seemed silky, rich and very well kept and stroked. The nose, a as much as columbine,
gave a certain majesty to their expression. And the width and straightness of face showed unusual
intelligence. You could see in all its aspect of an indescribable kind, of sympathetic and distinguished
dearly. Their bare hands, yet strong and manly were aristocratic, very neat and pretty, with pointed
fingers at the tip and encanutadas nails, instead of being short and flat. In this portrait, the
young man was dressed entirely European use of any label, with a white tie and tails, so admirably
cut and that he liked so well, do not dream of better, or Frank, Vienna, or the tailor more Famous
London. On the low end of this portrait was another sign that read, in evening dress to go to
a dance of Lord Governor of India.

Bewitched Poldy was contemplating the portrait. Was captivated by the beauty and distinction of his distant
friend. And could not be confirmed in the belief that it was an Indian prince mediated, a nabob,
or at least a Brahmin or a Kshatriya of first order and a long stem.

Imagine now the reader the desire, the wonder, the palpitations of
joy and the rare delight Poldy'd read the letter, which also came
round and was conceived in these terms:

VIII

"I'm disgusted and
I find it hard to write letters giving the address to whom treatment,
and thus adopted the ancient custom of the Orientals.

You will allow me, a beautiful countess Poldy, which of course tute
you without ceremony.

The white stork, which nests years on the roof of the splendid house
which I own in flowery banks of the Ganges, I have brought welcome
news from you, your sweet words and your divine image.

Blessed is the white stork has made me much good. Rightly called I used to Garuda. Now I can
confirm this sacred name, with which my country is designated the God-king of all birds, the
winged destroyer of dragons and snakes.

I am extremely pleased that you are of noble removed, and old enough
to where it in a village a few centuries ago was still wild, lack
of documents and files that could prove the nobility of any person,
and the deeds of their parents.

These, wandering in the rugged jungles and harsh climate of northern countries, declined from
its forgot illustrious origin and the primitive culture of the Aryans from which Paropamiso, and
only recently have civilized, taking advantage of the studies and progress of men Noon. But what
is this what you want, you are relatively noble and just me, but my clear nobility yours preceding
two thousand years at least.

I speak frankly and disposal flattery and compliments. That will give more credit to my praise
sincere.

Garuda, whimsical and happy for my inspiration, I took some verses
that I was far much imagine that could fall into such beautiful hands.

I pondered them my disgust of what around me and the craving that consumes my soul, to find
the object, hidden and distant love to meet my aspirations, understand them and share them.

Your
picture and your writing have filled my vows. You are the woman of my dreams.

Venerable Brahmans, wise old here, who wrote of love in the Kama Sutra
and other speeches and treaties, require sixty-four powers, brands
or skills, to exist in reality Padmini or perfect woman.

I declare that, to see your picture and reading your words, you have discovered in the sixty-four
talents and you have enthroned in my heart as queen and lady, and I recognize in you my Padmini,
without whose love I can not have never bliss. Love me then, as I love you, and make me happy
as I want to what you are.

Nothing can oppose our future union. The distance does not matter. I will not take to save distance,
and the day when you least think, will appear at your side and you'll
see me on their knees to your plants, asking that corresponds to the
immense love that you inspire.

There is no longer in me as exotic and pilgrim prohibit you love me.

I own the ancient namely the Brahmins and Kshatriyas, whose combined breeds descend, but I
have studied and I also managed to acquire enough knowledge of modern Europe. And do not look to prevention
unfair, but with paternal affection, as our first shoot lush, high and fertile doctrines. You might
have noticed I do not write your language badly until I copied and almost translated into Sanskrit
verses of Goethe. I am not ignorant nor French literature, English and other peoples. And
when it comes to religion, I will say with all secrecy, because I do not even shock and disturb
my relatives and friends, Brahmins and Kshatriyas, which I have denied, three years ago, the
Brahmanical religion, and I've done in secret, as a Catholic Christian, as you are. This conversion
is due to some Jesuit Father of the Spanish nation, who came to this city, from the Philippines
and stopped us for some time. It was so enlightened man, so pious and so eloquent and mellifluous,
who managed to convince me. God bless him and bless him. Callo your name, for surely you do not mind
and I do not want to hurt his extreme modesty. Only say that my frequent dealings with this blessed
Father, born in my great love to the Spanish language and I purchased and read the best prose writers
and poets, which she have written or typed.

We also Callus my Indian name, because I will not spoil it and because
it is so convoluted, well to learn only spoken through the living
voice.

Be satisfied for now, know that the venerable Jesuit my catechist, he put the baptized, the name
Seville Isidore. Do not be fickle: love me and I forget: do not fall for any of these dandies
Hof-Adel the palate or nobility of Vienna: Be convinced that my nobility is at least as clearly
and without doubt far more tolerance than theirs. The chance of them consist in ancient scrolls,
but mine has authentic documents, written twenty centuries before the parchment was invented,
and many more centuries before it was used in Austria and counts among writing materials.

Love
me, again, and have faith and hope in my love. No need to find, but wait. Soon I see your feet,
worshiping exhausted and begging with all my heart that you are the Padmini your

Isidore. "

IX

Poldy was thrilled to infer and consider, for reading the letter that his Indian was famous
and rich and I was madly in love with her. Points were, however, in the letter, which called
up in the spirit of Poldy, repairs, contradictions and even complaints. Tired gallant nor boastful
and nothing seemed fine commendation made by the Indian nobility, with extreme prejudice and even
contempt for the Austrian nobility, but apologized and even Poldy absolved the Indian, guessing
that in this particular had to be somewhat soured as his character, that he being a descendant
of Crishna of Rama, the Pandu, or perhaps some Avatar, the incarnation of Vishnu, of whom
Mahavarata held, was subjected to the foreign domination of English rogues.

Poldy and apologized to his friend, but was far from him right. She thought that noble documents
are worth only if it has power, wealth and high position who displays them, and all this, but the
wealth was undermined and ruined the Indian at last was a humble subject of His Britannic Majesty
and any Englishman or any employee of the Treasury cavalry colonel could look at him from top
to bottom.

Poldy ran well, that he who overcomes and dominates the rightful heir is always the loser and
mastered. And this in all periods and regions. In the Middle Ages, for example, at an crossroads,
and in open palenque, ran into a knight with another, and to test the respective bravery or to
confess to the contrary, that his lady was the most beautiful, or twinkling of an eye, both
lunged furiously and were knocked released. Following fell down from the chair one of the two
gentlemen, and at the moment, all the glory of prowess, all the renown that his adventures
and exploits had earned him, were transferred the gentleman winner
as attachment or appendix. From
the 24th to the 28th, I was chiefly occupied in attending the sittings of the Friends' Yearly
Meeting of this State; and, during the intervals, in seeing many Friends in private company.
I was much encouraged to find among them, a considerable number thoroughly imbued with anti-slavery
sentiments; especially, from the western parts of the State. The subject of slavery was introduced,
in the Yearly Meeting, by reading the Epistle from the Society in England, which is elsewhere
quoted.[A] This was followed on the part of many, by expressions of deep feeling; and the question
was referred to a committee, for practical consideration. In consequence of the report of this
committee, at a subsequent sitting, five hundred copies of the English address were directed
to be printed, and circulated among Friends, within the compass of the Yearly Meeting; and
the whole subject was referred to its "meeting for sufferings," with an earnest recommendation,
that they should embrace every right opening for furthering the great object. The clerk of
the Yearly Meeting expressed his firm conviction, that the work was on the wheel, and that
nothing would be permitted to stop its progress, until, either in mercy or in judgment, the
bonds of every slave should be broken. He spoke in a very powerful manner. In most of the epistles
sent out from this Yearly Meeting, as well as from that of Philadelphia, the subject of slavery
was introduced, and commended to the earnest consideration of the body, here and elsewhere.
Previous to the assembling of the Yearly Meeting, I had placed in the hands of one of its members,
the following letter:

[Footnote A: See Appendix A.]

    My Dear Friend,--Wilt thou have the kindness to ask the Friends
    with whom it rests to grant such a request, to permit the use of
    the meeting house at a convenient time, either during the Yearly
    Meeting, or before those who attend from the country leave the
    city, for the purpose of affording my friend John Candler an
    opportunity of giving Friends some outline of emancipation in
    Jamaica. I should like at the same time to give a little
    information on the state of the anti-slavery question in other
    parts of the world. John Candler, it is I believe generally
    known, visited Jamaica with the full sanction of the "meeting
    for sufferings," in London. My visit to this country had no
    particular reference to the members of our Society, but my
    friends in England kindly furnished me with the enclosed
    documents.

    Affectionately,

    JOSEPH STURGE.

    New York, 5th Month 17th, 1841.

This request was kindly complied with. The large meeting house was granted for the evening
of the 27th. The clerks of the men's and women's meetings gave public notice of it in their
respective assemblies. The former, the venerable and worthy Richard Mott, encouraged Friends
to be present, and said, as a thinking and reasoning people, they need fear no harm from a
calm consideration of the subject. Flowery climbing
roses and other plants that are stuck to the trees, and passing from tree to tree other festoons
and garlands, there were mysterious and secluded bush venue.

Sitting and Poldy, pondered, and had to be distracted by such art, which, as commonly it is said,
was the saint to heaven. What was his astonishment and what was his joy when noise and suddenly
felt no time to recover, saw the arrival of a gentle knight, he approached
and came to be respectful and knelt at his feet.

Impossible to doubt. Was the original of the three portraits in photography. Stylish dress was
hunter costume, but without weapons, because it was already going
to hunt tigers, but pigeons.

And pith helmet instead of east, covering his head a jaunty fedora adorned with a feather eagle.

The
young man knocked to the ground and discovered the black hat and
abundant curls of her head, before his knees.

Deep was the emotion of Poldy. Her heart was leaping in his chest. The young man seemed much more
beautiful than the original pictures, and when he heard his voice,
Argentina, melodious and rich and soft persuasive tones that steal
prudence and calm, he could barely stand and thought he would faint.

In that situation was not any dialogue possible.

What could be said the two lovers? How what sentences would be correct in what superhuman language
to express their feelings agitators?

Only he said:

- Here I am, Poldy. Yours is my life. I want to be and I'll be yours
forever.

I love you, I will idolize, I adore you.

What was there to answer Poldy, dumbfounded, radiant with joy, and love and decency struggling in
his soul?

He, however an effort and stood up, though troubled and uncertain.

Then he got up too and pressed it irresistible and lovingly in his arms. Then, pressing her
face to hers and covered it with kisses your forehead, cheeks and rosy lips.

Poldy met at last the danger was, he was ashamed of giving in so easily
who saw and heard for the first time, and, giving his injured forces
decency rejected violence to her lover, fell off his arms, and sought
shelter for their audacity desalted fleeing and taking refuge in the
castle.

Alone in his stay, he said Poldy of his fear, he managed to calm down, and at the bottom of
his soul could not fail to grant his pardon to the Indian prince.
What will not forgive a young woman graceful and elegant, very much
in love her, and coming to look and offer his hand from as far away
countries? And besides, what could I do it when she was silent, trembling,
breathing and unresponsive to your words? If the Indian had not done
what he did or would have been a superhuman entity which no style,
or ruin mozalvete, stunted and very to little.

Just thought Poldy.
I do not say if he thought if he thought good or bad. I say only that
he thought so and that, in consequence of these premises, cast your
mind back in the acquittal to the young Indian.

Then pulled out a
drawer of his desk and lit photography pleasure is sluggish began
to contemplate. On the 29th, I was favored with a call from Lieutenant
Governor Cunningham, of St. Kitts, on his way to England, who gave a very favorable account
of the continued good conduct of the emancipated slaves in that Island. It is surely an eminent
token of the divine blessing on a national act of justice and mercy, that evidence of this
kind should have been so abundantly and uniformly supplied from every colony where slavery
has been abolished. A fine black man was brought to me about this time, who showed me papers
by which it appeared he had lately given one thousand five hundred dollars for his freedom.
He had since been driven from the State in which he lived, by the operation of a law, enacted
to prevent the continued residence of free people of color, and has thus been banished from
a wife and family, who are still slaves. He has agreed with their owner, that if he can pay
two thousand five hundred dollars, in six years, his wife and six children shall be free, and
he was then trying to get employment in New York, in the hope of being able to raise this large
sum within the specified time. 

A clear understanding, capable and precise, covering the whole object, he looks on all sides,
in all dealings with his surroundings. The conversation and writings of these men privileged
are distinguished by their clarity, precision and accuracy. In every word you find an idea and
see that this idea corresponds to the reality of things. I illustrate, I convince, I left fully satisfied,
say with full consent, "if, indeed, is right." To follow in his speeches you need not strive,
it seems that you walk along an easy road, and the speaker only deals with the opportunity to point
out objects that you find to your pace. If you explain a difficult and abstruse subject, I also
save time and fatigue. The path is dark because it is in the bowels of the earth, but I precedes
a very practical guide, holding in his hand a torch that glows with radiant light.

§ IV.

The perfection of the profession depends on the perfection with known objects in them.

The perfect knowledge of things in the scientific order, is the truly wise; practical in order for
the settlement of the conduct in the affairs of life, as the wise; in managing the affairs of state,
form the great politicians, and in all professions, is each one more or less advantaged, to greater
or lesser proportion of object knowledge to treat or manage. But this knowledge must be practical,
it must also embrace the details of execution, which are small truths, so to speak, of which there
can be discounted if you want to achieve the object. These are many small truths in all professions;
It suffices to convince, to hear those who are concerned even in most simple trades. What is
it the best farmer? The most familiar qualities of the terrain, climate, seeds and plants that
you know what the best methods and instruments of husbandry, and best guesses on the opportunity
to use them in a word, who knows the media More to the point to make the land produce low cost,
very, soon and good. The Farmers will be better because you know more truths relating to the
practice of his profession. What is the best carpenter? The best known of the nature and qualities
of wood, particular mode of working, and the art of arranging them in the most suitable to use
they are intended. That is, the best carpenter is one who knows more truths about art. What
will be the best trader? The best known genera of traffic, points where it is more advantageous
to bring them, means more to the point to lead without deterioration, with alacrity and cheapness,
markets convenient to expend more quickly and gain: ie one that holds more truths about the objects
of trade, who knows further the reality of things in which they are
responsible.

§ V.

Everyone's interest to think well.

Then flings himself to see that the art of thinking it does not matter only to philosophers
but also simplest to the nations. The understanding is a precious gift bestowed upon us by
the Creator, is the light that is given us to guide our actions, and clear is that one of the
first must take care to be well groomed man is in this light.

If she misses we were plunged into darkness, we grope, and for this
reason we must not let it be off.

We should not have the understanding of inaction, in danger of being
put obtuse stupid, and on the other hand, when we intend to exercise
and Aviva, its light should is good for us not to dazzle, well-run
so we are not lost.

§ VI.

How to teach them to think well.

The art of thinking well do not learn both rules and models. For those who insist in teaching
force requirements and analytical observations, they could compare with who employ a similar
method to teach children to speak or walk. Why not condemn all the rules, but they hold to be
taken with more parsimony, less pretentious philosophical, and especially
in a simple, practical, next to the rule by example.

A child mispronounced certain words, to correct what they see their
parents or teachers?

The pronounce them well and then make the child say them: "Hear well
as I I mean, to see you now, do not put your lips look this way, do
not do much effort with the tongue "and other things along those lines.

Here is the precept by example, the rule and how to practice [1].

CHAPTER II.

CARE.

There are ways that lead to knowledge of the truth, and obstacles that prevent us from to him, teach
employees first, and to remove the latter is the subject of the art of thinking well.

§ I.

Definition of care. Their need.

Attention is the application of the mind to an object. The first way to think is to meet well.
The ax will not cut unless it is applied to the tree, sickle mowing if it is not applied to
the stem. Sometimes objects are offered without that meets the spirit, and happen to see without
looking, and hear without listening, but the knowledge acquired in this way is always litgh
superficial, often inaccurate, or completely wrong. Without the attention we are distracted, our
spirit is, so to speak, elsewhere, and therefore do not see what
is shown.

It is of utmost importance to acquire a habit of attending to what
is studied or done, because, although there has been, what we often
lack is the ability to understand what we see, read or hear, but the
application of encouragement to those concerned.

An event we are told, but we hear the narrative with loose attention, alternating thousand comments
and questions, hands or looking at objects that distract us, of what is circumstances that are
beyond us interesting, that we overlook essentials, and trying to
tell others, or meditated upon ourselves to form opinion, presents
the fact distorted, incomplete, and so fall into errors that result
from lack capacity, but not paying due attention to the narrator.

§ II.

Advantages and disadvantages of their care need.

A friendly spirit multiplied their forces in an incredible way, so
use the time treasuring always flow of ideas more clearly perceived
and accuracy, and finally remembers more easily, owing to the continuous
attention that these are placed naturally in the head in an orderly
manner.

Those who do not attend but loose, walk their understanding of different places to one time, here
they receive an impression, there is quite another, build a hundred things unrelated that far
from helping each other for clarification and retention, confused, muddled and erased each other. No
reading, no conversation, no show, however insignificant they may seem, can instruct us not
into something. Attention to the precious notice and collect, with the distraction we may drop your
pearls and gold thing trivial.

§ III.

How should the attention. Dazed and withdrawn.

Some believe that such fatigue much attention, but they are wrong. When I talk about attention I
do not mean that fixity of spirit that is nailed, so to speak, on objects, but a soft and restful
application that allows everything to take over, leaving however
with the agility to move effortlessly from one occupation to another.

This attention is not incompatible with either the same fun and recreation, it is clear that
the spread mood is not not think, but do not address things work, and to surrender to more
flat and Thin.

The sage who interrupted his studies out to deep solace time with
the amenity of the countryside, no fatigue, distracted earlier when
in the state of the harvest, to the labors of the farmers, the murmur
of streams, or the singing of birds.

So far I consider attention as severe and continuous abstraction, that quite the opposite story
in the number of distracted, not only to the giddy but also to the self-absorbed. Those are
spilled on the outside, they wander through the dark regions within; each other lack the appropriate
attention, which is what is used in what concerned.

The friendly man has the advantage of being more urban and cutting, because the self-esteem else
is hurt, if they notice we are not attending to what they say. Is remarkable the civility or lack
thereof surname is also attention or inattention.

§ IV.

Interruptions.

You are only a few cases, even serious research, so deep that require
attention that can not be interrupted without serious damage.

Some people complain bitterly if a visit to untimely, or an unexpected noise, cut them, as they
say, the thread of discourse such heads resemble the daguerreotype, in which the slightest movement
of the object, or the interposition of another strange enough to ruin the portrait or landscape.
In some is perhaps a natural defect in others a conceited affectation for taking the thinker, and
on many non-habit of concentrating. Since it is necessary to get used to having strong and flexible
attention to a time, and ensure the formation of our concepts not resemble the pictures to
the daguerreotype, but of common, if the painter is interrupted, suspended its work, and they
resumed is not squandered his work, if a body makes unwelcome shadow, stirring, let it all cured
[2].

CHAPTER III.

Career choice.

§ I.

Vague meaning of the word talent.

Everyone must engage in the profession for which you feel more fitness.

I judge a lot importance of this rule, and coat the deep conviction
that his forgetfulness might be that no have much more advanced science
and the arts.

The word talent expressed for some absolute capacity, mistakenly
believing that he is endowed with happy dispositions for one thing
it is equally for all.

Nothing more false, a man can be outstanding, extraordinary, monstrous capacity for one class,
and be very medium and even denied with respect to others. Napoleon and Descartes are two geniuses,
and yet are nothing like. The genius of the war had not understood the genius of philosophy,
and if they had talked a while, it is likely that both would have been dissatisfied, Napoleon would
not have exempted between the dismissive air that surname ideologues.

I could write a work of comparison talent, expressing the profound differences that mediate
even among the most extraordinary. But the experience of every day we manifest this truth
so palpable.

Men that run we hear and act on a matter with admirable success, while in another they are
very vulgar, and even clumsy and inattentive. Few will reach a capacity equal to all, and perhaps
we could say that no, because the observation shows that there are provisions that become pregnant,
and damaged another.

Generalist who has the talent is not easy holding the meticulous accuracy, the poet who lives
in beautiful and sublime inspirations, not out of work shall conform to the rhythmic regular
geometric studies.

§ II.

Instinct tells us the race that best fits us.

The Creator, which distributes the power to men in different degrees, they reported a wonderful
instinct that shows your destination: the inclinations towards durable and constant an occupation,
is pretty sure sign that we are born with an aptitude for it, as well as the diversion and
disgust can not be overcome easily, it is a sign that the Author of nature has given us not
happy dispositions for what we dislike. Foods suit us well suited to the palate and nose, not
tainted by bad habits or altered sick, and the taste and smell warn us ungrateful what are
the food and drink which by its corruption and other qualities, could dañarmos. God has not taken
care less the soul from the body.

Parents, teachers, principals of education and teaching should fix a lot of attention at this point,
to forestall the loss of a talented, well employee, may give the
most precious fruits, and avoid eating right is not a chore for which
there has been born.

The same question has to deal also in this test, the twelve year old
boy has at reflection common enough to notice what is inclined to,
what it costs less work, what are the studies being conducted more
easily, what are the tasks that experiences more ingenuity and skill.

§ III.

Experiment to discern the unique talents of each child.

It would be desirable to offer the viewer of children very different
objects, leading to visit places where the particular disposition
of each one could be excited the presence of what best suits you.

Then, leaving them abandoned to his instincts, would form an intelligent observer of course ratings.
Keep the machine a clock in sight of a reunion of children from ten to twelve years, and it is
certain that if including any mechanical genius is very advantaged, will be released since then
by the curiosity to examine, for the discretion of the questions,
and ease in understanding construction is contemplated.

Needles a bit poetic, and if there are among them some Garcilaso, Lope de Vega, Ercilla, Calderon
or Melendez, will see their eyes sparkle, you will know your heart
beats, his mind is agitated, his fantasy becomes inflamed under an
impression that he does not understand.

Beware trocar papers: two special children is very possible you to
form two common men.

The swallow and the eagle is distinguished by its strength and lijereza
wings, and yet ever the eagle could fly to the manner of a swallow,
and this copy the queen of birds.

The attempt diu quid ferre recusent, Valeant humeri quid, that Horacio
instilled writers, can also be applied to those who try to choose
a profession either [3].

CHAPTER IV.

ISSUES OF POSSIBILITY.

§ I.

A classification of the acts of our understanding, and the issues before it can offer.

For clarity, we divide the actions of our understanding in two classes: speculative and practical.
Speculative name is limited to those who know, and studies which lead us to act.

When we try just to know something, we can offer the following questions: 1 ª. if possible or
not, 2 ª. if it exists or not, 3 ª. what is its nature, what its
properties and relationships.

The rules being taken to address these three questions correctly, include Regarding all the speculation.

If
we are to act, it is clear that we always try to get some order, of which arise following issues:
1 ª. what is the end, 2 ª. what is the best way to reach you.

I urge the reader to fix the attention on the divisions that precede
and seek retain in memory, as well as facilitating the understanding
of what I have to say will serve you very much to proceed with the
method in all his thoughts.

§ II.

Ideas of possibility and impossibility. Their rankings.

Possibility. The idea expressed by this word is correlative to impossible,
because that one necessarily involves the denial of the other.

The words possibility and impossibility, expressed ideas very different, according to refer
to the things themselves, or to the power of a cause that may occur. However, these ideas have
very intimate relationships, as we shall see. When considering the possibility or impossible,
only with respect to a being, irrespective of any cause, are called intrinsic; and when caring for a cause,
are called extrinsic. Despite the apparent simplicity and clarity of this division, I see that
it is impossible to form full concept of what it means, to have descended to the different classifications
will set out in the following paragraphs.

At first glance one may wonder who first explain the impossibility
of possibility; But a little reflection, we note that this method
is very logical.

The word impossible, though it sounds negative, but several times
expressed an idea to our understanding is presented as positive: that
is, the reluctance of the objects, a kind of exclusion, of opposition,
struggle, so to speak, so that in dying for this reluctance, and the
ability to conceive.

Born here the expressions of "this is very possible, for nothing opposes it, "" possible, as
there is no contradiction. "Since, in knowing what is impossible, we know what is the possibility,
and vice-versa.

Some distinguish three kinds of impossibility: metaphysical, physical and moral. I will adopt
this division, but adding one member, who will be the impossibility of common sense. Instead
will be the reason that I founded. They also warn that it may be better to call failure absolute
to the metaphysical to the physical natural, and ordinary morality.

§ III.

What is the absolute or metaphysical impossibility.

The absolute or metaphysical impossibility, is that based on the very
essence of things or in other words, it is absolutely impossible that
which, if any, would bring the absurd that something serious and not
serious at the same moment.

A circle is an impossible triangle absolute because outside circle and not a circle, triangle and no
triangle. Five equal to seven, it is impossible all because the five would be five, not five,
and seven would be seven, not seven. A vice is an absolute virtuoso impossible, because the service
outside and not vice at the same moment.
§ IV.

The absolute inability and divine omnipotence.

What is absolutely
impossible does not exist in any conceivable assumption, therefore
even when we say that God is almighty, we understand that you can
make absurd. That world exists and there at the same moment, that
God is and is not, that blasphemy is a laudable act, and other delusions
by this wording, it is clear that not fall under the action of omnipotence;
and, as St. Thomas observes wisely, rather it should be said that
these things can not be done, not that God can not do them. It follows
that the intrinsic impossibility absolute extrinsic brings too absolute
impossibility: namely, that no cause may occur which in itself is
absolutely impossible.

§ V.

Absolutely impossible, and dogmas.

To
say that one thing is absolutely impossible we must have very clear
ideas end that is repugnant, otherwise there is risk of surname it
really absurd it is not. I make this warning to point out the injustice
of condemning some mysteries of our faith, declaring absolutely impossible.
The dogma of the Trinity and the Incarnation are certainly incomprehensible
to the weak man, but not absurd. How can a Triune God, one nature
and three persons other than each other, identical with nature? I
do not know, but I have no right to infer that this is contradictory.
Do I understand by chance what is this nature, what are these people
that I speak? No: Then when I want to judge whether what they say
is impossible or not, failure of unknown objects. What we know of
the mysteries of divinity? The Lord has spoken a few words mysterious
to exercise our obedience, and humble our pride, but did not want
lifting the thick veil that separates this mortal life in the ocean
of truth and light.

§ VI.

Idea of ​​natural or physical impossibility.

Natural
or physical inability, is that a fact is beyond the laws of nature.
It is naturally impossible that a stone dropped in the air does not
fall to the ground, the water left to itself does not get to the level
that a body immersed in a fluid, less serious not sink, that the stars
stand in their careers, because the laws of nature prescribed otherwise.


The Penitentiary contained, at the time of my visit, about three hundred and forty male, and
thirty-five female prisoners. In this celebrated prison, hard labor is combined with solitary
confinement, an arrangement which is technically known as the "separate system." Silence and
seclusion are so strictly enforced as to be almost absolute and uninterrupted; even the minister
who addresses the prisoners on the Sabbath is known to them only by his voice. A marked feature
of this institution is security without the aid of any deadly weapon, none being allowed in
the possession of the attendants, or indeed upon the premises. As compared with the "silent
system," exhibited in the not less famed prisons of the State of New York, this is much less
economical, as the mode of employing the prisoners, in their solitary cells, greatly lessens
the power of a profitable application of their labor. If prisoners exceed their allotted task,
one-half of their surplus earnings is given to them on being set at liberty. My visit was too
cursory to enable me to give a decisive opinion on the "separate system," but I confess my
impression is, that the punishment is one of tremendous and indiscriminating severity, and
I find it difficult to believe that either the safety of society, or the welfare of the prisoner,
can require the infliction of so much suffering. Criminals are sometimes condemned for very
long periods, or for life; and in these cases, I was informed, occasionally manifested great
recklessness and carelessness of their existence. I am also not quite convinced that the reformation
of prisoners is effected to the extent sometimes inferred from the small number of recommittals.
A statistical conclusion cannot be drawn from this datum, unsupported by other proofs.

On the 2d of the 6th Month, (June,) I proceeded to Wilmington, Delaware, with my friend John
G. Whittier. Here we met a company of warm-hearted and intelligent abolitionists, with whom
we discussed the prospects of the cause. It was calculated that if compensation were conceded,
to which many would on principle object, a tax of less than one dollar per acre would buy up
all the slaves in the State for emancipation. It was admitted by all, that the abolition of
slavery would advance the price of land in a far greater ratio; probably ten or twenty dollars
per acre.

We went forward the same evening to Baltimore, accompanied by one of our Wilmington acquaintance,
and in the railway carriage was a member of the Society of Friends from North Carolina, who,
though a colonizationist, appeared to be a man of candor. He gave it as his opinion that the
majority of the free people of that State are in favor of the abolition of slavery. We also
had the company, a part of the way, of Samuel E. Sewall, Counsellor at Law, in Boston, an early
and tried abolitionist, and a faithful friend and legal adviser of the free people of color.

The next morning, we left Baltimore for Washington, two hours' ride by railway. The railroads
of this country being often extremely narrow, the trains frequently pass almost close to the
piers of the bridges and viaducts, a circumstance which explains the following printed notice
in the carriages: "Passengers are cautioned not to put their arms, head, or legs out of the
window."

In passing from a free to a slave State, the most casual observer is struck with the contrast.
The signs of industry and prosperity on the broad face of the country are universally in favor
of the former, and that to a degree which none but an eye witness can conceive. This fact has
been often noticed, and has been affirmed by slaveholders themselves, in the most emphatic
terms. In cities the difference is not less remarkable, and was forcibly brought to our notice
in the hotel at which we took up our residence on arriving at Washington, and which, though
the first in the city, and the temporary residence of many members of Congress, was greatly
deficient in the cleanliness, comfort, and order, which prevail in the well-furnished and well-conducted
establishments of New York, Philadelphia, Boston, &c. At this house, I understood, some of
the servants were free, and others slaves.

We were now in the District of Columbia, the seat of this powerful Federal Government, and
in the city of Washington, the metropolis of the United States. Here are concentrated as it
were into one focus, the associations of the past, connected with the great struggle for independence,
and the memory of those names and events which already belong to history. Whatever may be our
political principles, or the opinions of those who like myself consider all resort to arms
as forbidden under the Christian dispensation, it is impossible to recall without emotion,
transactions which have exerted and will continue to exert, so marked an influence on the destinies
of mankind. If the princess or queen Briolanja not have done so many crazy and been
so outrageous Amadis heart attacks, how he had proved his fidelity Mrs. Oriana admirable or
how he would have made worthy to carry out the adventure Firm Island, with mirror, North and
True Lovers Guide?

People running around in confusion, censoring of very vicious and about truth, let me how familiar
the word, the scene where the Duchess tries to seduce Ignacio. But how censor such thing, when
the Year Cristiano contains quite a few scenes far more raw? San Vicente Ferrer, for instance, was
rushed twice Very beautiful ladies love him, which brought disappointment and they were playing
tablets, despite the efforts made, and delivered to the very demons, his staff and guides efforts
as wanton and lascivious. And note that these ladies pledged to San Vicente, broke thousand times
more against the holy Ignacio broke against the Duchess. Suffice it to recall that a San Vicente
once when he returned to his cell, was found tucked in bed at the pretty lady you intended.

With
no less depravity was chased San José de Calasanz founder of the
Pious Schools with the aggravating circumstance of deliberate and
persistent breach of trust occurred in the persecutor, daughter of
confession of Venerable Servant of God who came to inquire about the
sham and finer scruples of conscience.

St. Thomas Aquinas, the Angel of the School, had to fight the unholy love less brave and frightening
battles.

One day he was so haunted by a beautiful woman who clung in his arms,
which had be rejected and then pushed to dispel the chase with a lighted
stick.

Finally, a reward for such an important victory, two angels came down from heaven and confined
themselves to saint's miraculous virginal girdle of purity, which, though it hurt a lot when
girded it, was, as it were sure to fire up.

With the above I think he left showed that the seduction scene between
the Duchess and Ignacio, far from being sinful is exemplary and uplifting.

And let also shown that is not there today so seductive duchess has increased corruption in a class
society than others, and at the present time in the past. The same corruption appears in time
of the Pharaohs and repeated in Phaedra, in Briolanja and the women empecatadas of which managed
to win the three most glorious saints whom we have cited. Does not imply more corruption, no need
to attribute the author of the novel more pessimistic, so that it justified vengeance by taking
the Duchess Ignacio know their shame. Almost all women of ancient times when they are more
fiercely despised retaliate.

Why poisons introduced If nature had Downs to kill?

    
    What atrocities and
    heinous crimes do not make the heroine's devotion to the Cross, the
Catholic playwright irritated by us represents a contempt not real,
but imagined!

Driven by their passion Julia decides to commit and commit such crimes

Will spook the world Admiration of the times Horror at the same sin
And terror of hell.

    
    
    The revenge, then that
    takes the Duchess making Ignacio see his disgrace, is a trifle, is
a bargain when compared to other thousand vendettas, born of grievances
of the sort.

 Hence this is the grand point of attack. They
have experienced a succession of repulses, but their eventual success is certain; the political
influence of the slave-holding interest, which is now paramount, and which controls and dictates
the entire policy of the general Government will be destroyed. Then will the abolition of American
slavery be speedily consummated. The subject before the House was, of course, peculiarly interesting
to me, being the proposed re-enactment of the "gag;" a rule of the House, by which petitions
for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, are laid upon the table, without
being read or referred, and thus are virtually rejected. One of the speakers, William Slade,
of Vermont, who was opposed to the "gag," told the pro-slavery members that they were greatly
mistaken in supposing that such a measure would suppress the anti-slavery feeling of the country.
They might, for a time, block up the Potomac, but it would only be to direct its waters into
a new channel; in the same way as the rejection of anti-slavery petitions had resulted in the
formation of a third abolition political party, which was now regularly organized and in the
field. Having previously heard much of the virulence of the pro-slavery members, I was particularly
impressed with the silence and attention with which they listened to this speech, and with
the feeling which seemed evidently to prevail, that the subject could no longer be met with
contempt and ridicule. One of the liberal members told me afterwards, that they felt themselves
in a different atmosphere to what they did two years ago, both in the House and in the city,
when touching upon this subject. Before the debate closed, the House divided on the question,
whether ex-president Adams, the veteran defender of the constitutional right of petition, and
who had brought forward this motion for the repeal of the "gag," was entitled to the right
of reply. This was decided in his favor, and the House adjourned till the beginning of the
following week.

In the afternoon, I proceeded, by a steam packet, with one of my friends, to Alexandria, about
six miles distant, on the other side of the Potomac. A merchant, to whom I had an introduction,
kindly accompanied us to a slave-trading establishment there, which is considered the principal
one in the District. Spies
were placed in the street near Altavilla and Garnet house in order that no escape; sobornose
the servants, were drawn by the most fruitful heads City thousand ingenious plans for harassing
the couple. As agreed with these preparations Carnival, decided to use it to strike the first
blow with a grand masquerade burlesque came out on Sunday at noon Paco Gómez house through the
streets. In a float drawn by four oxen dressed in red calico, their horns decorated with branches,
came three masks, trying to contain an Estrada Fernanda-Rosa, another to his father and another
to Garnet. The latter wore a hat with horns. Occasionally he stopped the carriage and ran a farce
that was ridiculous and rude roar of delight to the onlookers who gathered around. Fernanda
kissed Garnet transports of enthusiasm, this, as smaller, embraced more below the waist, and meanwhile
D. Juan laughing sounded a bag of money. Occasionally, the fund of the coach came quickly wanted
to represent another mask the Count de Onis, gave a kiss to Fernanda, I returned it back to Garnet,
and makes to hide at the same pace.

As this charade was carried out on the streets of Altavilla, before
the same house Estrada-Rosa, the scandal was huge, the crowd that
witnessed immense.

D. John, a paroxysm of anger, reported the Governor, great friend, and decided to go up following
with Fernanda. The young thugs, who foresaw this determination, they had hatched render it
ineffective means of preparing, as we have seen a great charivari for night. Was anticipated
because it had not been married, but in no way wanted to be escaping without it. Armed, then, few
could have loud instruments, with high transparent, which were painted the same grotesque figures
of the carriage with brutal legends below, and torches in their hands, gathered over three hundred
boys in Altavilla, and about population half of them encouraged them with their laughter. The noise
was horrid. Of Occasionally a voice stopped and threw the air any indecent song, which was
celebrated with cries of joy, growing so much and so the din, that the world was falling apart. Lieutenant
Rubio, always original, climbed over the cornices of the chapel of San Fructuoso, located almost
front of the house of Estrada, Rosa, and began ringing the bell. Paco Gómez was covertly one
by another group targeting the most harmful coplitas to repeat aloud which had more sturdy. Moro
rang his famous serpent to take the lungs, while the sissy Sierra, who had been one of the most
active promoters of the bell, you got home treacherously D. John, sold as a faithful friend, to spy
on reality what was going on.

But the political head of the province thought that it was time to officiate and compose Neptune angry
waves. When the Charivari was at its height, sent Altavilla Nola, out of the municipal guards,
accompanied by two numbers, which turned out to be Lucas the Rosette
and Pepe la Mota, with orders to pacify the scandal and clear the
street.

The lacienses were seasoned of old not to recognize the divine origin of authority when Nola,
the Pepe Mota rosette or were determined to represent it. And not only cast doubt on their
legitimacy, but as discerned from afar, his spirit was blowing in the wind of revolt and curling.
"This consisted in the lacienses were predestined by the blind impulses of his nature to conspire
against the established order? It is not plausible. None Lancia historians have identified
as the distinctive character of that race opposition institutions. It is more natural to assume
that what angered them so deeply and I inclined to the conspiracy was the nose of Nola, the
size of an electric bell button, the husky voice of Luke the Rosette and legs arched monstrously
Pepe Mota.

Plenty of these respectable actors knew governmental power anarchic tendencies that sometimes
manifested itself in the neighborhood of Lancia. But what is not even suspected the introduction
incautiously from the crowd, Altavilla was that they had to leave
there without a cane, without sword, without kepis and slapped cheeks.

Thus it is written without however.

The political chief would not comply with the inscrutable judgments of God, and gets angry
immediately summoned the lieutenant of the civil guard and sent him to avenge eight numbers the
unfortunate Nola, Rosette and Pepe Lucas Mota.

Flushed with the funny last victory of Altavilla, tried to resist.

Then Lieutenant, who devoured the fire of war, sent wield sabers, and smiling ferociously, laid
on the crowd like a boar indomitable.

Seeing him, a shudder ran through the living members of each of the lacienses. There tendencies
to withdraw from the battlefield, but missed at the time who encouraged her brave heart misleading
offering the prospect of victory.

- Outside the civilians! Tricorn Down! Ranker Die!

Such were the cries rebels who escaped from the breasts of reckless youth.

And at the same point flew some stones. The daffodil, the euphoniums, the cornets piston whose
musical voice had sung many mazurkas in the midst of peace, transformed suddenly instruments
of war, casualties shone the torchlight.

The Lieutenant tricorn embarrassingly fell to the ground one pulse. He picks it up. Warrior's heart
quivers, a circle of foam forming around their lips and is thrown into battle with swollen
eyes, breathing extermination.

Then, under the rule of irresistible force, the young heroes retreated Lancia giving loud cries threatening.
The swords of civilians began to sound flat the backs of a few. The retreat became a flight
soon. As a flock of Deer runs and chased by Jackals disbanded and generous children fled Lancia that
memorable night, pursued by bloodthirsty civilians. The ground was strewn brass instruments, witnessed
the affront. The lieutenant walked a long time indomitable its fury in the streets, cheering with
their hosts live interjections, throwing them in pursuit of the rebels as a hunter throws his pack
in pursuit of a deer. That's how Paco Gómez, followed doggedly by the three-cornered hats, the
accuracy was to escape to his belt, to squeeze through the window of the shop of Ms Romana, falling
face down on a source egg masses and completely destroying a magnificent cake intended for Cantor
Borage the cathedral. This was also Jaime Moro, after losing in the fray the serpent Don Nicanor,
was about to be slain by the sword glowing with a civilian. Only for having taken the precaution
to lower his head when he threw the coup prevented the effusion blood. The sword was to hit
the wall of a house, making it not a little havoc. Months later, Moro husked taught as a trophy
piece to outsiders Friends who came to Lancia, and to remember his
exploits and dangers in that glorious night, a soft joy down his heroic
heart.

Many other members of that youth experienced damage magnanimous consideration in its economy,
some by the influx of sabers, most from falls and crashes resulted from the rush. The victory was not
yet free agents government. Apart from the failure of the cocked hat of Lieutenant and some bruising of
his subordinates, the powers that suffered a major setback in the person of one of its oldest representatives
in the person of Nola, out of city. We know that this character, entirely unpopular in Lancia,
because of the shortness, and even more over-roundness of his nose, had lost in the first skirmish
the kepi, sword and the honor of your cheeks. The anger and revenge rule over his heart. Nothing
could be done, however, to turn them off, because he was deprived of all means of coercion.
But instead of retiring to the porch of prudently Hall, as did his companions Luke the Rosette
and Pepe la Mota, remained middle Street anxiously watching the battle. Seeing that was decided in favor
of institutions he represented the joy spilled over his chest loudly
municipal.

- Good for the guards!

Hard on them! Rajarme this rabble! To see if a warning to Once the rascals!

Such were the warlike cries that came from his throat. However, at least could expected, because
the enemies were fleeing in disarray, came crashing to the button his nose a hard body with a smooth
surface and compact which was a piece of hydraulic lime. All the bells rang his brain at a time. Unable
to suffer so much noise, wine knowledge to private land. His chest magnanimous only had the strength
to breathe a complaint melancholy.

- Recongrio, I have escuaernao those bastards!

Thus fell this mighty bastion of order, the man worked in its incessant struggles with the rascals of the
suburbs had so often walked along the path of victory. Levantáronlo and placed in the pharmacy
and Matias, who was next. From there he was taken shortly then to the hospital. The city lost
a few days his shield.

Because neither Lucas the Rosette and Pepe Mota could compete in energy with Nola.

While these events were made in Altavilla and adjacent streets, D. Juan Estrada-Rosa, indescribable
irritation dam, walked by his office excitedly stroking her hair.

The consolations of Sierra hypocritical fag could not calm him.

He talked about going out and thrown on the insolent crowd.

- What I have done my poor child! "- Exclaimed in a trembling voice, close to sobbing.

Fernanda had retired to his room early and had gone to bed. If surprised the clamor that sounded
in the street or already had it, is not easy to know. When D. Juan, after adopting a violent resolution
to wake up, turning on the light found her with dry eyes and bright, no appearance of being
asleep or crying. He to dress in a hurry, and gave orders to the servants that they might have
lit all the house lights to deceive outsiders, came with her from the garage door, overlooking
a lonely alley. They were accompanied only Manuel Antonio. Dirigiéronse by the lost streets of
Retired home. Once there, he passed a message to Don Santos to be issued immediately, and
another to prison. When both went, the father, daughter and these two gentlemen, Manuel Antonio
and Mateo went secretly to Jovita Lancia Castilla road. After walking a while they waited for
the car that Don Juan had commanded to come. Acomodáronse the six as they could in the reel,
casting to Manuel Antonio the box.

Half an hour later they were in the possession of the banker. Hastily alzose a small altar in
the main hall of the house, and before daybreak, the prison blessed union of fiancés.

Fernanda had not taken off the lips during the journey. The same silence when they did preparations
for the ceremony. Appeared calm, in a state of absolute indifference or, rather, of sleepiness,
as the person who ripped sleep and soon realizes what is happening around him. But that went dormant
after to utter the self before the altar. Neither warm and eloquent discussion of the prison, or
incessant jokes Manuel Antonio while taking breakfast, no fondling Jovita and the excitement involved,
loud, his father managed to get her out of her strange distraction. Dawned the day, a sad day, cloudy,
melancholy seeping through the windows.

Everyone did efforts to be cheerful, be talked out loud, laughed commenting on the stupidity of
the servant, Manuel Antonio fear of tipping over.

There shone, however, a great sadness. When the conversation was interrupted brows wrinkled, their
faces darkened. To pursue it again, echoing words dismally in the luxurious dining room.

The bride retired to change costumes. A bit later, again with the same face impassive. D. According
to the plans John, should go immediately to take a village near the chaise. The Lancia indecent
would be so disappointed. When down the garden, where he hoped the
car, fine rain was falling and cold.

Fernanda kissed his father and entered the car. The poor old man, to get that kiss on the cheek,
he thought a stream of cold air coming through her membership and chilling paralyzing the heart.

The
whip snaps. "Farewell, Fernanda; abrígate, Fernanda. Adios, Santos. You come soon. "They are
already under way. Within an hour arrive at Meres, wait for the diligence and up in it. The same
obstinate silence by Fernanda. The Garnet did not care tear or a smile or a word of thanks,
his grotesque gestures and blunders that occasionally lets out do not arise in the marble face
of a young gesture of fatigue and disgust.

At times he sleeps, sometimes viewed with astonished eyes the landscape. When they reached the
outskirts of León was night.

But what about Leon? When you reach the square where the shot change diligence discover large
crowd of people, hearing voices outrageous, discordant noise of musical instruments tolling of
bells. And come to rise above the crowd some painted transparent.

Paco Gomez, trace fruitful than Ulysses, had written to some friends of Leon time back inviting
them to have a charivari for when pasasen Garnet and his wife there.

Lancia colony, which is large in Leon, admirably seconded plans his countryman. All I had prepared.
However, these preparations have been useless without the betrayal of Manuel Antonio, who reaches
Paco Lancia secret news what happened. He used the telegraph, newly installed, and began communicating
with his followers.

Fernanda soon realized that this uproar was against it.

When, for some screams reached his ears, came to the attention of
it, turned pale, his eyes widened and with a cry, rushed to the window
to throw out.

Garnet stopped holding the waist.

The girl fought furiously at times, but can not discard those short
arms and brawny bear, he fell at last into the seat, hands She took
in the face and began to sob.

- God, sin has been great, but what
a terrible punishment!

X

Five years later.

Five years elapsed. The noble city of Lancia has changed little on the outside and less still
in its customs. A few houses adorned with marzipan grilleras raised by gold Indian park near San
Francisco, several pieces of pavement on streets that he never possessed, three more lanterns
in Constitution Square, a policeman cool, which owes its existence not so much as service
needs to passions the mayor, a man of lofty thoughts, devoted almost entirely to Venus, which rewards
the condescension of Vulcan with the municipal budget in some Bombé ride bronze statues of the
fallen robes, which were serious scandal to his erection, making Judge Saleta proclaimed in the
gathering of Grandee that "the average was one hundred nudity most
exciting times to complete, "in the heads of our mature known some
silver threads, and in the face radiant as the rainbow of Manuel Antonio,
the most seductive of the sons of the illustrious city, and obvious
signs that her beauty will soon fade like a happy dream glacial breath
in the morning, as the snowflakes gently falling in the dead of winter
a sad day.

Vegetative life itself, misty, sleepy, the same conversation at the backrooms sucking with honey
delight of gossip. Weighing vulgar nicknames always lead slab on the happiness of some respectable
families. At the pump, sunny afternoons, the same clerics and military groups deployed in wing
walking. The huge bells of the basilica invariably ringing at set times. The devout old walking
with hurried to plant rosario or ninth. The monotonous chanting of the canons resonate deeply
in solitude of the high vaults. In Altavilla, at dusk, the eternal youth dances happy, laughing
a lot, talking loudly and opening We often to make way for a seamstress spiritual or affluent
meat maid who pay homage to the eyes, with the word and often with your hands. And there,
high in the sky, the same rings of clouds sad brown and quietly piling up on the ancient cathedral
to listen in melancholy of autumn night wind moans across the high drag of the tower shaft.

We are in November. The Count de Onís used to ride a horse the same on clear days in the dark. Fewer
and fewer will place the company of men. His character has been more suspicious and melancholy.
Sin annihilated the weak germs of joy that nature had placed in his heart. The gloomy temperament,
extravagant, fanatic Gayoso has been extolling it little by little with the incessant gnawing
of remorse, has upset his imagination, has enervated their low activity
and blackened its existence.

Bothered by men. In all eyes plan to watch hostility in the most innocent phrases, any malicious
intent that makes your blood boil with rage. Dare not enter the temples, even dropped to his
knees, as before, against the fourth bloody crucifix of his mother. If you hear talk of hell trembles
and flees. Send large alms to the churches charge masses who can not hear, put candles on
the images, and secrecy of his room is entertaining at times childishly to ask fate, throwing
a coin if will be condemned forever or just purgatory. When it comes to their ears singing
the priests who accompany a funeral, pale, trembling and covered their ears. By We often wake
up startled night with a cold sweat, screaming miserably "There die!

Must die! "

For a long time he lived almost completely removed, without leaving more than when it ordered
that will that had been his dominion. Then, as suffer too much, fearing that ended his dark thoughts
his reason, gave the outline to go by foot or horse, until fatigue.

The physical fatigue paid break his spirit, the show Nature calmed his troubled imagination.

It was a cold, dark afternoon. The clouds piled up over the hills weigh closing the horizon the
North, and hide the high mountains of Lorrin that stretch like a distant curtain by the West.
Heavy showers that have fallen became lower lake city and mud roads depart from it. Despite
this, the Count sent her saddle horse Lancia leaves the road to Castilla, and gallops among the
clouds of mud across the prairies and forests of chestnut trees. The yellow leaves of the
trees, washed rain, shine like gold, a thousand rivulets down the side hesitant creepeth of the
hill and go to deposit their water in the plain, which expands with
soft green and wet undulations. But it is not on
        these grounds alone, or chiefly, that they deplore the
        existence of slavery in the United States. Manifold as
        are the evils which flow from it--dehumanizing as are
        its tendencies--fearful as its reaction confessedly is
        on its supporters,--the reproach of its existence does
        not terminate on the institutions which gave it birth:
        the sublime principles and benign spirit of Christianity
        are dishonored by it. In the light of Divine Truth it
        stands revealed, in all its hideous deformity, a crime
        against God,--a daring usurpation of the prerogative and
        authority of the Most High! It is as a violation of His
        righteous laws, an outrage on His glorious attributes, a
        renunciation of the claims of His blessed gospel, that
        they especially deplore the countenance and support it
        receives among you; and, in the spirit of Christian love
        and fraternal solicitude, would counsel its immediate
        and complete overthrow, as a solemn and imperative duty,
        the performance of which no sordid reasons should be
        permitted to retard--no political considerations
        prevent. Slavery is a sin against God, and ought,
        therefore, to be abolished.

        "'The utter extinction of slavery, and its sister
        abomination, the internal slave-trade of the United
        States, second only in horror and extent to the African,
        and in some of its features even more revolting, can
        only be argued, by the philanthropy of this country, on
        the abstract principles of moral and religious duty; and
        to those principles the people of your great republic
        are pledged on the side of freedom beyond every nation
        in the world!

        "'The negro, by nature our equal, made like ourselves in
        the image of his Creator, gifted by the same
        intelligence, impelled by the same passions and
        affections, and redeemed by the same Savior, is reduced
        by cupidity and oppression below the level of the brute,
        spoiled of his humanity, plundered of his rights, and
        often hurried to a premature grave, the miserable victim
        of avarice and heedless tyranny! Men have presumptuously
        dared to wrest from their fellows the most precious of
        their rights--to intercept as far as they may the bounty
        and grace of the Almighty--to close the door to their
        intellectual progress--to shut every avenue to their
        moral and religious improvement, to stand between them
        and their Maker! It is against this crime the committee
        protest as men and as Christians, and earnestly but
        respectfully call upon you, Sir, to use the influence
        with which you are invested, to bring it to a peaceful
        and speedy close; and, may you in closing your public
        career, in the latest hours of your existence on earth,
        be consoled with the reflection that you have not
        despised the afflictions of the afflicted, but that
        faithful to the trust of your high stewardship, you have
        been "just, ruling in the fear of the Lord," that you
        have executed judgment for the oppressed, and have aided
        in the deliverance of your country from its greatest
        crime, and its chiefest reproach.

        "'On behalf of the Committee,

        "'THOMAS CLARKSON. Neither
would twenty-five years shook hands with great confidence to Messrs. and kissed the children, which
testified to his friendship with Rivera's family. One was thin, pale, small eyes, pretty ugly
all over, but dressed with great neatness and elegance Romillo name was John, son of a wealthy haberdasher
in the Rue du Prince, his father had for the forum, which had made great strides, but instead
had a very early age excelled in the art of dressing and in full knowledge, whatsoever, of all
the news true or false ran through the town: in the houses where he came not read newspapers
news, because they were useless: this is reducing their science and their parts. The other was
a cute boy, blonde, pink, thin and incipient beard, blue eyes and wet lips always folded with
tender smile, humble, friendly gestures without being cramped. He was born in Cuba of an affluent
family, who later went bankrupt in the stock market game settle in Spain. He was a lawyer
too, like his friend and classmate Romillo, but much more studious and exploited, which was
of necessity, was in prospect Romillo fortune, as he only he acquired his work. Contained in
Academy of Court as he hopes, and founded with others a society for the abolition of slavery,
and another to abolish the fifth and fees sea. In these matters of humanitarian concern showed
Valle (Arturo del Valle was his name) an activity and as laudable as prodigious interest:
the number of meetings, or meetings, as stated in the newspapers, and banquets for his initiative
had been promoted, was incalculable, the articles and pamphlets he had written in support of his
ideas generous could not be assessed accurately. These flyers would come under the title, stamp
token, an engraving showing a black bad knees, shackled with hands raised to heaven. At the
banquet also included another bold, but meat and bone: a dessert of these feasts humanitarian rarely
let up saying Valley loud and solemn

- I designed, sir, there is a man out there who want fraternise Colo us. Do you have any objection
to this victim of injustisia Sosial between a greeting?

- That one, that between now! - The assembly shouted as one man, seized with enthusiasm abolitionist.

    The keeper stated that in rainy seasons the prison was
    uncomfortably wet. What time that
solemn, recollection for the traveler's soul, hope and fear deep supreme!

Leaving the sandy beach where his deep breaks the majestic Magdalena, parting thought of an
immense treasure. There were: the grave of my father, family traditions, ash Home, sweet memories,
and the mad whims of young love, friends fortune, freedom, air, sky, the thousand vague rumors
and confusion, and all that lovely set of impressions and dreams, regrets and memories, misfortunes
and such, which is called the Fatherland ... All that was left behind, and buried in a cemetery
whose cover was a Honda! What future? ... The vague and unknown - infinite and marvelous -
that touches the heart in his dreams of hope, and that doubt covered with its shadow when the traveler
says: Who knows?

       * * * * *

Honda is an old city, Spanish entirely by their construction, but looks so Whimsical and colorful
that reaches the proportions of romance. The Magdalena River, the great artery of commerce
in New Granada, after having brought in some leagues the direction of SE to west, suddenly lost
its gentleness, is narrowed between high rocks of two parallel ridges, and twisting is released
directly north by between rapids stony, crowned with foam, roaring like the great bulk of a
waterfall, and as tired for this decrease storm, goes to it rested, a league below, gently licking
wide Bodega beaches. 

They were at dessert. Romillo and Valle were invited for coffee and sat at the table. After the
tenor Mario, focused the discussion on the executions of some sergeants had risen. Romillo
gave details on this point no less interesting: a of prisoners had not been killed outright,
got up for mercy, the confessor tried to come between him and the gun barrels, but the General
who commanded the troops came, and raising his sword in anger, said:

- Father priest from his position, or you rifle V. in the act!

-
What horror - Valle said, rolling her eyes and then gently posándolos
on Eulalia.

- In effect - said D. Bernardo, - all this is very sad,
but absolutely necessary.

Where we would end up if not punish the rebellion with a mighty hand?

- To be punished otherwise Sr., the death penalty should be banned from the codes.

- Do not go to the declamations, friend Valley: the death penalty
should survive while there are criminals who deserve it.

V. is very young, my dear, and has the noble ideas, but inconsiderate, typical of youth. When
V. have lived longer, you see that can not govern with the heart, but with intelligence.

- This is what you see Nah, you design ... but I can not help me ...
Horrors caused me all corporal punishment!

As he spoke these words her lips were made by a smile of ineffable sweetness, while their eyes were
looking at the eldest of Rivera.

D. Bernardo still deign to contradict other many times the young abolitionist, please appreciate
it knew it was worth, trying to give their arguments a sentimental bias not bothered less or more
the respectable nobleman: we left corner sometimes, other escaped through an obvious fallacy,
others confessed up, but persisting in their beliefs.

- Your Reason
are powerful, no turning back, I understand perfectly, but I can not
judge mankind so bad, I still believe that medium-soft are preferred.

The discussion in this way for Don Bernardo was tasty, and thus lost all the young Cuban. Doña
Martina looked at him with admiration and sympathy, sharing their views charities.
 His keen understanding easily find reasons to support what intends to defend
his words and writings and draw others with ascending fascinating.

This will undoubtedly cause the fickleness that is seen in men of genius recognized; today extol the
curse tomorrow, today is for them an indisputable dogma, which is miserable morning concern.
In one work may contradict a shocking way, and I lead You might have consequences that he never suspected
they were reconcilable with his principles. You would be wrong if ever bad faith attributable
to these unique anomalies: the author himself will be sustained and not with deep conviction, because
without him noticing, the only conviction stemmed a feeling alive, excited, when understanding is
admirable thoughts dwell on for its beauty and brilliance, was no more than a slave of the heart,
but a slave working, resourceful, corresponding to the whims of its
owner offering exquisite work.

Poets, true poets, that is, those men whom the Creator has given high conception, creative imagination
and heart of fire, are more exposed than others to get carried away impressions of the moment.
They do not deny the power of up to the highest regions of thought, or say that it becomes impossible
to moderate their flight wit and a habit of judging rightly and skill,
but to no doubt be necessary flow more reflection and more strength
of character that the common men.

§ X.

The poet and the monastery.

A traveler passing through a lonely poet hears the ringing of a bell, which detract from the
meditations in which he was enthralled. In its soul is home to the faith, but it is inaccessible
to the religious inspiration. That sound pious in the heart of the desert changes Suddenly the
disposition of his mind, and takes you to savor in a serious and severe melancholy. They soon
discover the silent mansion where they seek asylum, far in the world, innocence and repentance.
Arrives, dismount, llama, with a mixture of respect and curiosity, and stepping on the threshold
of the monastery is a venerable old man, his face serene, cuts and gentle treatment. The traveler
is presented with affectionate warmth, is driven to the church, the cloisters, at the library,
wherever there is something to admire or notice. The old monk did not turn from his hand, holding
the conversation with discernment and good taste, be lenient with the views of the new-comer,
as he lends can please you, and not separated from him, but when the hour of meeting its duties. The
traveler's heart is gently shaken, the silence interrupted only by the singing of psalms, the crowd
of religious objects that inspire contemplation and piety, together with the estimable qualities
and to the kindness and condescension of the old cenobite Traveler's heart inspire feelings of religion,
of admiration and gratitude, that Mrs. vividly his soul. Bidding farewell to the venerable host,
thoughtfully away, taking those memories will not forget in a long time. If such a situation
in spirit our poet to place him in their relationships interlayer reflections on the trip religious
institutes, what do you think they say? Is clear. For him, the institution will at the monastery
and the monastery will be embodied in the monk whose memory fascinates him. Count it with
an eloquent piece for religious institutes to be against philosophers
who condemn an ​​imprecation against revolutions which destroy them,
tears of sorrow upon the ruins and tombs.

But woe to the monastery, and all monastic institutions, if the traveler had been found with a
host of bad mood, dry and bland conversation, fond little beauties literary and artistic works, and nothing
good humor to accompany curious! In the eyes of the poet, the monk would have been the personification
of unpleasant high school, and in punishment of bad reception, had been convicted of this type
of life, and accused of bringing down the spirit, strengthen the heart, separate treatment
of men, be rough and rude manners, and bring countless ills without producing any good. And
yet, the reality of the cases would have remained the same in either
case, mediating only happened that would grant the visitor reception
more or less rosy.

§ XI.

Need to be fixed ideas.

The foregoing considerations show the need to have fixed ideas and opinions formed on core subjects,
and when this is not possible, how much it matters to abstain to improvise, leaving it to sudden
inspirations. It has been said that the big thoughts born of the heart, and could have added,
to the heart are born too large errors. If the experiment fails to do so palpable, the reason would
suffice to prove it. The heart does not think or judge, but that does not feel, but the sentiment
is a powerful lever that moves the soul and deployed and multiplies
their faculties.

When understanding is the path of truth and good, noble and pure
feelings to help give strength and brio, but the feelings ignoble,
or depraved, but may lose the right understanding.

Even feelings good, if the stress is too much, they can lead to errors
deplorable.

§ XII.

Duties of oratory, poetry, and fine arts.

Born here very serious considerations about the proper use of oratory, and in general all the
arts that come to the understanding or through the heart, or at least
worth of him as a powerful auxiliary.

Painting, sculpture, music, poetry, literature in all its parts, are very severe duties, which
all too often forgotten. The truth and virtue, here are the two objects to which should be addressed:
the truth for understanding virtue to the heart, behold what you have to provide the man through
the impressions to captivate you. In deviating from this white, limited to the simple production
of pleasure, are sterile for the good and fertile for evil.

The artist intends only to flatter the passions, corrupting morals, is a man that abuses and
neglects his talents sublime mission entrusted by the Creator, to endow privileged powers that
ensure the ascendancy over their fellows, the speaker using the trappings of diction, and its
ability to stir the emotions and enchant fantasy, seeks to adopt
erroneous opinions, is a true no less guilty impostor that he employs
means, perhaps most disgusting, but much less dangerous.

It is not lawful when it is unlawful to persuade convince, when the conviction is a deception, persuasion
is perfidy. This doctrine is severe, but sure the dictates of reason can not be less severe,
when adjusted to the requirements of the eternal law which is severe also because it is just
and immutable.

Infer from the above, that writers or speakers endowed with great qualities to interest and
charm, are a public calamity, when used in defense of the error. What mind the shine, if only
serves to impress and losing? Modern nations have forgotten these truths, to revive among them
the popular eloquence that much damage to the ancient republics, in deliberative assemblies where
businesses are heard high state where failure of the great interests of society, not another voice
should resonate that of a clear reason, brainy, austere. The truth is the same, the reality
of things move, because he has aroused the enthusiasm of the assembly and spectators, and has
been deciding vote with the accents of a fiery speaker.

Is it not true that it is based, is useful or not what is proposed, to behold all that has to meet, the
rest is lost miserably, is to forget the end of deliberation, is to play with the big interests
of society are sacrificed to the childish display itch oratorical skills, to the petty starting
vanity applause.

We have already noted that all meetings, and especially in the beginning of the revolution,
suffer from a spirit of invasion, and are distinguished by their unwise decisions. The session perhaps
begins with happy auspices, but then takes a dangerous bias, the mood are touched, the mind is clouded,
the exaltation point rises, reaches a frenzy scratch, and a reunion
of men who individually would have been reasonable, they become a
mob of senseless and crazy.

The reason is obvious: the impression of the moment is alive, outweighs Above all, it dominates
all the natural sympathy man, spreads like electricity, and running picks up speed and strength,
what at first was a spark, is a few moments a terrible conflagration.

Over time, some disappointments and train warning to both nations, making go blunted the sensibility,
and not so dangerous fascination Speaking: sad choice for evil, the
repetition of the damage.

Whatever, it is not possible to change the heart men, will be worthy
of glory and renown speakers clarified that employ in defense of truth
and justice the same weapons that others use in support of error and
crime.

Next to Providence usually placed poison antidote.

§ XIII.

Illusion caused by the thoughts clothed images.

In danger of missing more than that it brings the motion of the affections, there is another
perhaps less repaired, and yet is of great importance, what is the thoughts of coated with a bright
image.

Words can not express the effect that this device produces, such thinking no more than superficial,
deep passes, thanks to his disguise serious and philosophical, such other which submitted nude was
a vulgarity, appearing to hide its origin noble trappings commoner, and enunciated a proposition
that would show dry bulk is inaccurate or false, or perhaps a solemn nonsense, is counted among
the truths that do not allow doubt if covered with artful veil walks.

He said that damage to this point are of great importance, because
they often suffer from Authors such profound defect and judgmental,
and inasmuch as his words are heard with much more respect and deference,
the stronger is the tone of conviction with which expressed, is that
the unwary reader receives as incontrovertible axiom, or maximum of
eternal truth sometimes what is but a dream of a thinker, or a loop
lying on purpose to the good faith of the short notice [19].

CHAPTER XX.

PHILOSOPHY OF HISTORY.

§ I.

What is the philosophy of history.

Difficulty of acquiring it.

No deal here of history under the critical, but only under the philosopher. The on the simple investigation
of the facts is explained in ch. XI.

What is the most apropos to understand the spirit of the age, training ideas clear and precise about
your character, enter the causes of events, and point to each its own results? This amounts
to asking which method is suitable for acquire the true philosophy of history.

Is the choice of good authors? But what are the good guys? Who assures us that has guided the
passion? Who puts up security for impartiality?

How many are the made history as it takes to teach the philosophy that it deserves? Battles, negotiations,
intrigues, lives and deaths of princes, changes of dynasties, political forms, this is reduced
most of the stories, nothing that we paint the individual with their ideas, feelings, needs,
tastes, whims, habits; that causes us to be present at the intimate life of families and villages,
nothing in the study of history make us understand the progress of
humanity.

Always in politics ie, on the surface, always in large, noisy, never
in the bowels of society, in the nature of things, in those events
that remote and low appearance, they are still of great importance.

It is now known as the void, and fill works. History is not written without any attempt to philosophize
about it. This in itself is very good, has another drawback, which is that instead of the true
philosophy of history is often tip us philosophy of the historian. You better not philosophizing
philosophizing that bad, if wanting to deepen history of disorder,
would be preferable that I followed the system of names and dates.

§ II.

Indicated a means to advance the philosophy of history.

Need is to read the stories, and in the absence of other, should one stick to those that exist, without
But I am inclined to this study is not sufficient to learn the philosophy of history. But to
no other purpose, and done with discernment, is one positive effect: study Instant monuments of the
time. I say immediately, that is, they should not stick What we said about them the historian,
but to see them with your own eyes.

But this work, I say, is very heavy, so many impossible, difficult
for everyone.

No deny the validity of this observation, but argue that in many
cases, the method I propose saves time and fatigue.

The sight of a building, reading a document, a fact, a apparently
insignificant word that has not repaired the historian, tells us much
more and more clear and more true and accurate, that all their stories.

A

historian aims to portray the simplicity of the patriarchal customs, collects abundant news about
the earliest times, and exhausts the wealth of his erudition, philosophy and eloquence, to make
me understand what those times and those were men, and offer what is called a complete description.
Although as I said, I find another means easier, which is present at the scenes where I presented
in that movement and life treatment known. I open the writers of those times that are neither in such
numbers, not so bulky and there I find portraits faithful who teach and delight. The Bible
and Homer anything let me desired.

§ III.

Application to the history of the human spirit.

Human intelligence has its history, as do external events, history both more precious, the most
intimate portrait us of man and what he has on powerful influence. They are found at every
step descriptions of schools, and the nature and trend of thought in this or that time, meaning that
many historians of understanding; but if you want to know something more than four are usually
always inaccurate, and often totally false, it must apply the rule set: read authors of the period you
want known. And do not think it is absolutely necessary to mix them all, and thus this method
becomes impractical for the greatest number of readers, a single page of a writer We painted the
living but his spirit and his time might tell us that the more detailed historians.

§ IV.

Example from the faces, which clarifies what was said on how to advance the philosophy history.

If
the reader is happy with what they tell others, and consideration is not itself achieved perhaps
a historical knowledge, but not intuitive: you know what men are and things, but do not see,
give reason of the thing, but will not be able to paint. A comparison clarify my thinking. Suppose
I am talking about a major sugeto I can not deal or see, and I curious to know something of his
figure and manners, I ask those who know him personally. I tell you, for example, which is more
than medium height, space and high forehead, black hair fallen in
some disorder, large eyes, lively and penetrating eyes, pale, animated
and expressive features, which often appears with his lips the smile
of kindness, and occasionally announcing some evil, that his word
is measured and serious, but with the heat of the conversation is
fast, incisive and even spirited, and so I will offer physical and
moral set to give me more idea about possible, and if I assume that
these and other news are accurate, I have been described in the original
faithfully, I have a idea of ​​what the caller is my curiosity, and
I will give account of whom as I was eager to know.

But is this enough to form a comprehensive concept the same, so I present to the imagination
as it is in itself? Certainly not. Do you wish a test? Suppose he has heard that the relationship
is a portrait artist of great merit; Will it be able to portray to the person described? I try,
and completed the work, introduce yourself suddenly the original, it is certain that not known
by the copy.

We will all experience for ourselves the truth: one hundred and one hundred times have we heard
explain the appearance of a person, to our way we have formed in the mind a figure in which we
have sought to possess the qualities hearsay, as well, when it occurs the person, we find much difference
that we must touch much work, if not destroy completely.

And there are things that it is impossible to form clear and accurate without them before, and
there in large numbers, and extremely delicate, subtle separately and which together constitute what
we call the face. How explicaréis difference of two very similar people? No other than seeing them: they
appear at all, would know not to say what disagree, but there is something that leaves no mistake:
at the first look at what you perceive, without managing it is.

Behold, all my thoughts. In the critical works we offer extensive and perhaps accurate descriptions
of the state of understanding in this or that era, and in spite of everything we do not know
Moreover, if we submit pieces of writers of different times, it would be correct to classify which
should, we would fatigue to remember the qualities of each other, but this does not would avoid
falling into gross blunders in absurd anachronisms. With much less gracefully got out of work
effort if we read the authors in question: maybe disertaríamos not with so much erudition
and critical apparatus, but we judge with much more success. "The turn of thought, shall we say,
style, language, reveal a writer of such period; this piece is apocryphal, here we discover the
hand of such other time, "and so went about sorting without fear
of making mistakes, for ourselves but we could not understand either
of those as we know no sight of those characters.

If then we say, "and this quality, how is that not here?

Why this one is at most? ?...» why "is impossible," perhaps we would
reply, "to satisfy all scruples V.; what I can say is that the characters
I have listed here the well-known; and I can not be wrong about the
features of his face, because I have seen many times.

"

CHAPTER XXI.
RELIGION.

§ I.

Fool running of the indifferent in matters of religion.

Improper
outside this place, a treatise on religion, but it will be some thoughts
to focus thinking on this important matter. The subjects
discussed were the time and place of a future convention of the friends of the slave of different
nations. London was unanimously approved as the place, and the preponderance of sentiment was
in favor of 1842 as the time.

On the 22d we went on to Lynn. Here are a very considerable number of the Society of Friends,
who are desirous of taking part in active anti-slavery exertion, when they can do so without
compromise of principle. It is greatly to be regretted that in this vicinity, a few individuals,
formerly members of our religious society, have embraced, in connection with their abolition
views, the doctrines of non-resistance, or non-government, in church and state, and thus greatly
added to the difficulties in the way of efficient action on the part of consistent members;
but whatever may be the errors and indiscretions of these individuals, they furnish no valid
excuse for the apathy and inaction on the part of "Friends," nor lessen, in the slightest degree,
their responsibility for the firm and faithful maintenance of our Christian testimony against
oppression. We proceeded, the same evening, to Amesbury, where the family of my friend and
companion John G. Whittier reside, in whose hospitable and tranquil retreat we remained till
the 25th. Here I found myself in a manufacturing district, and paid a visit to a large woollen
mill, and was much pleased with the cleanliness and order displayed, and with the evident comfort
and prosperity of the working people, who are chiefly young women, none of whom are admitted
under sixteen years of age. Any person given to intoxication would be instantly discharged.
All the manufactories in this place are joint-stock companies, and the mills are worked by
water power, of which there is an abundant supply.

I had agreed, on my return to Boston, to meet my abolition friends at a tea party, and found
an entertainment provided from the Marlborough Hotel, in a large room adjoining one of the
chapels, on a scale of great profusion, a little to my disappointment, as I had anticipated
one of a social rather than of a public character, though I could not but feel the kindness
which it was intended to manifest. Charles Stewart Renshaw, from Jamaica, was opportunely present,
and his information on the state of that Island added much interest to the evening, the proceedings
of which, I hope, gave pretty general satisfaction. In condescension to my wish, my valued
friend, Nathaniel Colver, suggested to the company to dispense with the usual form of public
prayer, and substitute an interval of silence, after the reading of a portion of scripture,
which was kindly complied with.

Before leaving Boston, I had a long interview with William Lloyd Garrison. His view of "women's
rights" is so far a matter of conscience with him, as to be made an indispensable term of union;
yet though widely differing on this, and other important points, we parted, I trust, as we
met, on personally friendly terms; and certainly on my part with a desire to promote a spirit
of forbearance, and with a deeper and stronger conviction that the friends of the bleeding
and oppressed slave, should not spend their strength in unprofitable contention upon points
in regard to which both parties claim to act conscientiously, while the common cause requires
their undivided energies.

On the 28th I left Boston for the beautiful town of Worcester, about forty miles distant, on
the principal line of railway to New York, where I had the pleasure of visiting, at his own
residence, my friend, Cyrus P. Grosvenor, one of the delegates to the Anti-Slavery Convention
last year. There are here a considerable number of sincere abolitionists, of whom we met a
small company in the evening, in a room used as the Friends' meeting house. I gave them a brief
account of the state of the anti-slavery cause in other parts of the world. In company with
John M. Earle, editor of one of the Worcester papers, with whom I had formed a previous acquaintance
at the Yearly Meeting, I also called on the Governor of the State of Massachusetts, who resides
in this place. We had some friendly conversation, but he seemed cautious on the subject of
abolition. The temperance cause in Worcester has made so much progress that at the three largest
and best hotels, which make up nearly one hundred beds each, no intoxicating liquor of any
kind is sold. A people thus willing to carry out their convictions, to the sacrifice of prejudice,
appetite, and apparent self-interest, cannot long remain a nation of slave-holders. In common
with the rest of New England, this town is remarkable for the number, size, and beauty of its
places of worship. I calculated, with the aid of a well-informed inhabitant, that if the entire
population were to go to a place of worship, at the same hour, in the same day, there would
be ample accommodation, and room to spare. This would explain better what without being implausible, bordering on impossible, that
Ignacio happens something very similar to what happens in the beautiful tenor Fernando Opera
entitled La Favorita. Ignacio, no less simpleton, sleepwalking and distracted, but also not
less jealous of his honor that the terms to which we refer, is married to Eulalia, without
to find out what had happened. And here, far from diminishing difficulties you the grows and
multiplies, in my opinion unnecessarily. Suffice it known by all Madrid society the slip or
slips of Eulalia with a married man. Why assume Eulalia also kept closely to that man wearing?
Would not it have been wiser, and that the novelist can make as he pleases, or Eulalia have not
reached such items, or that natural and quietly has released before making your wedding?

Well, no sir, you insist that the business is rarer and more difficult to explain, and you
have the wedding take place to escape so that there occurs the phenomenon of emergence of
a perfect human being, much less premature.

In view of what is happening and you are telling, not a few people accuse you of leftover pessimistic
and painting with the darkest colors immorality and vices of the
high society to which it belongs.

What is I am far to see you so bad intention. And I do not understand it either bad result, although
the intention is good.

The truth is, though very sad truth that the noblest and the purest virtues moral excellence, can
not give clear evidence of itself is neither good nor manifest glow, if the vices, sins and evils
are not the occasion or cause for it. Virtue, let us say well, it's like a cocoon that would never
be perfect flower calyx opening, unfolding petals and perfume the air with their aroma, if vice
inadvertently and contradiction not intervene in the matter. Would it have been martyrs if
there had been ruthless and ferocious tyrants who put themselves
in the alternative to deny his God and to worship idols or be devoured
by wild beasts, flayed or burned alive or subject to other exquisite
very cruel torture? For two or three years after, Theodore Weld was engaged in anti-slavery effort, principally
in the States of Ohio and New York. His voice failed at last, and for several years he was
unable to address a public assembly. According are these, take different names;
current calling when they exist in reality and potential when there are more than possible.
The current is divided into metaphysics, physics, and comprehensive. Metaphysics, which distributes
all metaphysical parts, like the man in animal and rational physics, which distributes physical
parts, like the man in body and soul integral, which distributes it in parts expressing amount,
like the man in the head, feet, hands etc. The potential is distributed by a whole in those parts which
we can conceive. Thus, considering as a whole the abstract idea of ​​animal, can be divided
into rational and irrational. If the statement of the potential division belongs to the essence
of the thing, is called essential, if not accidental. Will be essential if the animal divided
into rational and irrational, is accidental if you divided by their color or other similar qualities.

The
good division must: 1. exhausting all, 2 º. not to award that does
not have parts, 3 º. not include a party to the other, 4 º. proceed
with order, whether this is based on the nature of things, or the
generation or distribution of ideas.

If I say one thing from another, I am a trial, if the statement with
words, I have a proposition.

Inwardly affirm that the earth is a spheroid, behold a trial, say or write: "the Earth is a spheroid
"behold the proposition.

In any trial there is relation of two ideas, but rather of the objects they represent, what
same will happen in the proposition, a term that expresses what we affirm or deny, called subject,
affirm or deny what is called predicate and the verb to be, I express or understatement is always
in the proposition, his name is union or intercourse, because it represents link the two ideas. So
in the example above, the land is the subject, the spheroid predicate, and copulation.

If there's assertion, the proposition is called so, whether there is denial denial. But it should
noted, that for a proposition is negative, not enough that the particle does not affect any of
its terms, but it must concern the verb. "The law does not require pay." "The law commanded
not to pay. "The first is negative, the second affirmative sense is very different just move
from place no.

The propositions are divided into universal, undefined, and unique individuals, according to that the
subject is singular, indefinite, particular or universal. Every body is serious: it proposition
universal, owing to the word all. The man is unstable, the proposition is indefinite, not express
if they are all or some. Some axioms are misleading, the proposition is particularly because
the subject is restricted by the attached one. Gonzalo de Cordoba was famous captain, the proposition
is unique, by being the subject. To be singular proposition, need not be proper name, just
a word anyone who determine, as if you say this coin is false.

Propositions concerning undefined, you may wonder if the subject is taken in respect universal
or particular, and give origin to this question two reasons: 1. not
being that accompanied universal or particular term, 2 º.

He notes that they use points to a sense and to other non-universal.

Indefinite proposition is equivalent to the universal in an absolute sense, if matters are belonging
to the essence of things, or any of its properties to be considered necessary, is equivalent
to moral universal, ie for most cases, if versa on qualities that demand it, and finally to particular,
on the advice of the thing that speaking. The bodies are heavy, is equivalent to saying all bodies
are heavy.

The Germans are thoughtful, not to say that all they are, but this is one of the characters
of that nation.

The propositions are simple or compound. The simple are those which express the relationship
a single predicate to a single subject: like all the previous examples. Compositae are those that
contain more than one subject or predicate, and therefore explicitly
or implicitly comprise more than one proposition.

With the classification and examples, will be better understood what
is a compound proposition. The dialectic generally falls into various
classes; will indicate the main.

Copulative proposition is expressed
by the binding of two assertions or denials.

During my visit to New York, I became acquainted with many who were deeply interested in the
abolition cause, not a few of whom were members of my own religious society. Among these, I
may particularly mention my venerable friends, Richard Mott and Samuel Parsons. I paid a second
visit to the residence of the latter at Flushing, but regret to say, I found him too unwell
to enjoy company.[A] His sons are anxiously desirous of furthering the abolition cause on every
suitable occasion. One evening I spent with a respectable minister, who is a man of color,
and who assured me that most of the intelligent persons of his class in New York approve of
the course pursued by the late Convention in London, and the Committee of the British and Foreign
Anti-Slavery Society. I saw at his house a man who had purchased his freedom for twelve hundred
dollars, intending to remain in the same State, but, as in a precisely similar case already
noticed, he afterwards found he had no alternative but to emigrate, leaving his still enslaved
family behind him, or to be again sold into slavery himself, under the laws enacted to drive
out free people of color. He was trying to raise the large sum of fourteen hundred dollars,
to purchase his wife and four children.

[Footnote A: This illness terminated fatally. One of his intimate friends in this country,
has favored me with the following communication respecting him. "Samuel Parsons had been from
early life, a warm friend to the African race; his love of peace rendered him at the first
accessible to prejudice against the American Anti-Slavery Society, through the misrepresentations
respecting its violent and rash measures; which misrepresentations it was much more easy to
believe than to investigate. Yet his interest for the negro and colored population of the United
States continued, and he extended acts of protection and kindness towards them, whenever opportunity
for it was afforded. In the Eleventh Month, last year, I find the following paragraph in one
of his letters to us, viz. 'Though sensible that I am drawing towards the close of time, I
cannot avoid taking a deep interest in the moral reformation, relative to slavery and intemperance,
which is progressing in the earth; my son Robert and I look at these publications as they appear,
with deep solicitude. The proceedings of the Anti-Slavery Convention of the world, and its
movements, are of great moment to the whole civilized world. The anti-slavery cause, has not,
I fear, advanced much the last year; the separation in the National Society, and the truckling
to the South of the politicians of both sides, during the late Presidential election, has for
a time marred the work; but the anti-slavery banner of a third party is still displayed, and
it will probably continue to nominate till it seriously influences the elections. In the mean
time, the individual States, one after another, are freeing the colored people from part of
their civil disabilities. A hard battle is to be fought, but mighty is truth, and must prevail.'"]

"The fourth of July," the anniversary of the independence of the United States, fell this year
on the first day of the week, and was therefore celebrated the day following. It is still marked
by extravagant demonstrations of joy, and often disgraced by scenes of intemperance and demoralization.
The better part of the community wisely counteract the evil, to a great extent, by holding,
on the same day, temperance meetings, school examinations, opening their places of worship,
et cet. I accompanied my friend Lewis Tappan to attend an anti-slavery meeting at Newark, in
which Theodore Weld was expected to take a part for the first time after an interval of five
years' discontinuance of public speaking. Several years before, he had been carried away by
the stream in crossing a river, and had very narrowly escaped drowning. This accident caused
an affection of the throat, and eventually disqualified him for public labor except with the
pen, to which, though deemed a great loss at the time by his fellow-laborers in the anti-slavery
cause, we probably owe the invaluable works before referred to. It was on the same anniversary,
five years ago, that he had spoken last, a circumstance to which he made a touching allusion:
he spoke very impressively for more than half an hour without serious inconvenience, and I
hope it may please Providence to restore his ability to plead, as he was wont to do with great
power, for the cause of the oppressed.

In the afternoon there was a public examination of the scholars belonging to the place of worship
in which the preceding meeting was held, and in connection with this a little incident occurred,
which may serve to illustrate the state of public feeling. Newark, from its extensive trade
with the south, is much under pro-slavery influence. But the congregation of this chapel are
generally anti-slavery, and have several colored children in their school. One of these, a
little black girl, was qualified to take part in the public examination; but this, in the estimation
of some of the parents of white scholars, and several even of the trustees, could not be borne.
Others, on the contrary, resolved to battle with the prejudice of caste, and to call for her,
if she were not brought forward; and, finally, I suppose, by way of compromise, she was brought
on the platform to recite alone, after the little scholars who could rejoice in the aristocratic
complexion had performed their parts, without suffering the indignity of a public association
with a colored child. Even this was, however, considered a victory by the anti-prejudice party.

I left on the seventh for Niagara, being desirous to see the celebrated Falls, and to visit
some friends living in the western part of this State, as well as to find relief from the oppressive
and tropical heat. I hoped also to fall in with my friends and fellow laborers, J. and M. Candler,
who had gone with a party in the same direction. I need not describe a route so often traversed
by Europeans. One of its agreeable incidents was an accidental meeting with John Curtis, of
Ohio, on his way, on a free trade mission, to Great Britain, from motives which I believe to
be disinterested and philanthropic. If the flow and ebb of the sea had been observed that one that coincided again
with a certain position of the moon, could not be inferred that there was a relationship between
two phenomena, but remain constant expressed coincidence, physicists must infer that if one
does not cause the other, at least they both have a common cause, and thus are related in
origin.

Despite what I just said, have many reasons when branded a sophistic dialectic following reasoning:
post hoc, ergo propter hoc, after this, then why. 1 º. Because they do not speak of a constant
succession, 2 º. because even when you speak, this succession can
dependence indicate a common cause, not that one is because of that.

While it is noted, the same rule to attend to ordinary business, it is more general of what might
appear at first sight: we use it in the ordinary course of things, one's fate with regard
to nature. According to the object in question amending the application of the rule: in some cases
just an experience of rare, in others it requires more repeated, but basically we are always
guided by the same principle: two things that always happen, a dependency
has to others, the existence of a indicated as the other.

§ V.

An example.

It's night and I see that on top of a mountain is lit a fire, to little time to burn, I notice
that on the opposite mountain overlooking a light shines briefly and disappears. This has left
after the fire on the opposite side, but here I can not infer that between the two events have
some relationship. The next day, I see again that goes on fire in the same place, and that just
shows the light. The coincidence of yesterday I had not even stopped, and my attention today,
but this may be a fluke, and not think about it anymore. The next day the same thing happens,
the suspicion grows that there is a signal.

For a month is verified the same; the time is always the same, but never lack the appearance
of light to burn some fire, then I do not doubt or The fact is dependent on the other, or at least
some connection between them, and no longer but I need to figure out what a novelty that I fail
to understand.

In such cases, the secret to discovering the truth, and prevent unfounded lawsuits, is to attend
to all the circumstances of fact, without neglecting any of negligible it may seem. So in the
example above, assuming that little power to fire is presented light, diráse at first sight,
it is not necessary to stand in the hour of the night, and neither If this time is on or not.
But in reality these circumstances were very important was because, according to the time, was more
or less likely to appear big fire and light; and being always the same, it was much less likely
that the relationship they had two events that if it had been mixed. An unwise not to notice
anything like that, alarmed the region with the intended signal, and would not fit doubt that
some criminals agree, be explained without difficulty robbery that happened this or that day,
they understand what he meant a shot that was heard in that quarter, and the authority would have notice
of the evil plot, when black and suspicions would fall on innocent families, behold explorers
sent to observe closely the mystery, could very well go back and laughing at the horror scared,
and deciphering the enigma in the following terms: "Very near the top where fire burns, lies
the home of the family A, which bedtime to a guard deliberately nearby, it is reported that
some loggers want to spoil part of the forest replanted. The Sentinel feels cold, and does very
well in non-light a fire to scare anyone, but is to secur the miscreants and rope. As this is fully
hour at bedtime often their neighbors, so does the family that lives in the B summit of the
mountain opposite. At the sound of the clock, lifting the actual owner of the fireplace says
to everyone: "let's go to sleep," and in the meantime he goes to a terrace which gives several
doors, and pushes the outside to test if the boys have closed properly.

As the good man is going to be collected, has in hand a candle, and HEOS mysterious light here
came out at the same hour, and disappeared shortly, coinciding with the fire and making it almost
passing thief who just tried to guard against thieves.

What should I do in this case a good thinker? See here. A little time on the fire appears light,
and always at the same hour, more or less, which is inclined to believe that a signal. The country
is at peace with this understanding should be wrongdoers. But overall is not likely to be,
because it is not always choose the regular one time and place at risk of being noticed and discovered.
Also that the operation would be very Long lasting a month, and these businesses usually rounded
off with a coup de main. For those houses are near A and B, families of good reputation that they
have gone to fact.

So it seems that there must be coincidence or pure chance, or if
there are signs, should be about business that does not fear the eyes
of justice.

Event Time is exactly as collected the residents of this earth, let's
see if this will not be that some tasks oblige one to light a fire,
and others to make the light.

§ VI.

Reflections on the previous example.

Reflecting on the above example, note that in spite of the sign no relationship or cause, which
itself had the two events, however somehow recognize the same origin: sonar bedtime. This will
check to see that the error was in assuming that there was something common in them, or think
that the coincidence was purely accidental, but that it appealed
to interpretations devoid of foundation, was sought in the intention
concerted people what was the simple effect of the identity of the
hour.

This observation shows on the one hand the wisdom that must precede the class determine in relation
to each other have two events, simultaneous or successive, but otherwise confirmed more and more
the rule given, that when the simultaneity or succession are consistent, they argue any link
or connection, or of the facts to each other, or both with a third party.

§ VII.

The reason of an act that seems instinctive.

Delving more matter, we find that the inference of coexistence or
succession of relationship between concurrent or subsequent events,
although it seems a fairly instinctive and blind, is the application
of a principle which we recorded in the depths of our soul, and that
We even unwittingly continued use.

This principle is as follows: "Where there is order, where combination,
there is cause to order and combined, the chance is nothing.

"Once in a match We can look as casual, ie unrelated, but still often
repeated, and we without hesitation: "here is link is no mystery,
does not reach much chance."

This checks that examine in depth the human spirit, are at hand everywhere kindly Providence has been
pleased to enrich our understanding and our heart with priceless treasures [6].

CHAPTER VII.

LOGIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CHARITY.

§ I.

Wisdom of the law that forbids rash judgments.

The Christian law prohibiting rash judgments law is not just charity, but of prudence, and good
logic. Nothing is more risky than to judge an action, and above all the intention, by mere appearances,
the ordinary course of things has been so complicated events, the men are in so many situations,
they act by very different reasons, see the objects so differently, that often looks like a
great castle, which examined closely, and the presence of the circumstances is the most natural,
the most simple and fixed.

§ II.

Examination of the maxim "think wrong and miss."

The world believes provide a very important rule of conduct, saying "think wrong and error," and
imagine having amended in this way the evangelical morality. "It should not be too candid, we
are warned continuously, we must not rely on words, men are very bad, actions speak louder than words:
"as if the Gospel teaches us to be reckless and imbecile, as if Jesus Christ to encomedarnos
us to be innocent as doves, we do not been advised that we did not believe every spirit, that to
know the tree atendiésemos fruit, and finally as to the purpose of the wickedness of man, not as we read
in first pages of Scripture that man's heart is evil from adolescence.

The maximum pernicious proposed nothing less than ensuring the success with the malignancy
of view, is so contrary to Christian charity, as to sound right. Indeed, the experience teaches
us that man a liar but says much more truths than lies, and the more evil for many more good deeds
than bad or indifferent.

The man loves Naturally the truth and goodness, and not away from
them but when you drag passions and misguided.

Lies provide him a liar in any occasion in which untruthfully, create
further their interests or flatter their vanity foolish, but outside
of these cases, of course telling the truth, and speak like other men.

The thief steals the light gets out, the quarrelsome quarrel, when the opportunity presents
itself, stimulating the passion, as if they were continuous abandoned
their evil inclinations, would be monsters, his crime degenerate in
dementia, and then the decorum and good order of society would claim
imperiously they are above the treatment of their fellows.

Infiérese of these comments the wrong judge, not having the proper foundation, and take malignancy
guarantee of success, is as irrational as if having them in an urn many white balls, and very few
blacks, it said that the odds are out in Black's favor.

§ III.

Some rules for judging the behavior of men.

Fit into this matter carefully judicious rules, born of the wisdom
of the serpent and not destroy the innocence of the dove.

RULE 1 ª.

Should not be trusted in the power of ordinary men, tested very hard.

The reason is clear, very vehement temptations to resist demands firm and unblemished virtue. This
is found in few. Experience teaches us that in such extreme human weakness usually succumb, and
the Scripture warns us that whoever loves danger will perish in it.

You know that a reputable merchant is in the greatest distress, when everyone believes him
in position very unencumbered.

Your honor, the future of his family, are awaiting a operation fair bit, but very beneficial.
If you decide to it, everything is remedied, if declines, the fatal secret is disclosed, and
the total ruin is inevitable. What will? If the operation you can get hurt, precaveos time to
depart from a building while in a regular situation are not ruinous, is now beaten by a furious
hurricane.

You have news that two people amiable and beautiful figure, have stuck
very relations intimate and frequent, both are virtuous, and even
when there is no other reason, honor should be enough to contain them
in the proper limits.

If you have interest in it, take your party promptly, if not silent, not judge rashly, but pray
to God for both that sentences may not be useless.

You are in the government, the times are bad, the critical time, the dangers many. A your dependents
charged with an important place is besieged by a night and day enemy that has long bags. The
clerk is honored according to you it seems, has great because of you commitments, and is especially
enthusiastic about certain principles, and supports with much heat. Nevertheless, it will
be good to not lose sight of the business. You will make well in believing that the honor and
your convictions will crack with no dependent the blows of a hammer
than fifty thousand dollars, but you better not probeis, if the consequences
were mostly irreparable.

A friend has made you great offers, and you can not doubt that they are sincere. Friendship is
old, many powerful titles, the sympathy of hearts is tested, and height of this, there is identity
of ideas and feelings. Suddenly presented a business your friendship has to cost you face, if you
do not sacrifice is exposed to severe losses, to imminent danger. For whatever might happen, resignaos
to be a victim, fear that the affectionate protests will remain unfulfilled, and instead of
your grief, you will be paid with a satisfaction as whining as sterile.

Are watching an authority to bind, it wants to force an act of high
significance, can not access them without degradation, without neglect
of duty more sacred, without compromising interests of the utmost
importance.

The judge is naturally straight, in his long career not known a felony,
and his strength is accompanied by some firmness of character.

The record is not bad. However, when you see the storm raging, that the mutiny and up the stairs,
when I hit the cabinet door to the bold demagogue who has been in
one hand the role to be signed, and another a knife or a gun cocked,
fear more about the fate of the business, which for the life of the
magistrate.

You may not die, the integrity is not heroism.

With the above examples is easy to see that sometimes it is lawful and very prudent distrust
of the virtue of men, what happens when the work well requires a provision of mind, which reason, experience
and the same religion, we are taught to be very rare. It is clear moreover, that to suspect evil,
is not always necessary that the trouble is such as has been painted. For the common man much
less is usually enough, and definitely bad for the simple equal opportunity to vehement temptation.
This is not possible to identify another rule to discern cases, but must attend to the circumstances
of the person who is the object trial, adjusting the probability of evil for their usual inclination
to him, or his attachment virtue.

From these considerations are born the other rules.

Rule 2.

To guess what the conduct of a person in a given case, know your intelligence, character, character,
morality, interests and how you can influence their determination.

The man, though endowed with freedom of choice, no longer subject to a crowd influences that contribute
mightily to decide. Forgetting a single circumstance can lead to error. Then if a man is in a commitment
that is difficult to exit without neglect of duty, it seems at first sight that knowing what
their morality, and the obstacles which at the time to act according to mediate it, we have sufficient
data to predict the success.

But then we took into account a quality that affects on how similar cases: the strength of
character. This oversight may do very well disappoint our hope that a virtuous man, and exceeds
the bad, then, that to get graceful virtue rushed circumstances, serve admirably at their disposal
for strong passions.

A core of strong and fiery temper, is exalted and encouragement to
the new charges Given the danger in the line of duty are interested
then the pride and heart would naturally be pleased to overcome obstacles,
and face risks, it feels more daring and resolved when it is animated
by the cry of conscience.

The yield is weak, the turn back cowardice, the failing in its duty is to manifest fear, is
subjected to the insult.

The straight man of pure heart intent, but cowardly, things look very different eyes. "There is
a duty, it is true, but brings death who meets, and orphan family. Evil will also in the same
way, and perhaps the disaster will older. It is necessary to give the time that is yours:
the courage not to turn into stubbornness: duties not to be considered in the abstract, it must
attend to all the circumstances; cease to be virtues, if not walk governed by prudence. The
good man has been found at last what he wanted: a parliamentarian
between good and evil, fear your own costume served not the case,
but has been dressed carefully, the transaction will not wait much.

Here's an example well palpable, and certainly nothing imaginary,
of the need to attend to all the circumstances of the individual who
has to judge.

Unfortunately knowledge of men is one of the most difficult studies, and therefore is collecting
thorny task the information needed to get right.

RULE 3 ª.

We take great care to rid ourselves of our ideas and conditions, and beware of thinking that
others will act as we would work.

The everyday experience teaches us that man is inclined to judge of others taking by pattern himself.
Of proverbs were born here "who does evil, think no evil;" and "the thief thinks that everyone
is like him."

This inclination is one of the largest obstacles to finding the truth in all matters relating
to the conduct of men, she frequently exposed to the virtuous to fall prey to the intrigues of the
wicked, and often leads to tested against honesty, and perhaps unblemished virtue, the shots
of slander.

Reflection, aided by costly disappointments, sometimes cure this defect, origin of many private
and public evils, but its root is in the intellect and heart of man, and must be alert if they
are to sprout branches.

The reason for this phenomenon is not difficult to explain. In most of its reasoning, man comes
by analogy. "It has always happened, will happen now and then too." "Commonly after that event,
comes as another, then the same will happen today. "From arises here as soon as it offers the
opportunity to be a trial, appeal to the comparison; if an instance supports our way of saying,
but we affirm it, and if experience provides us with many, without waiting for more evidence
we demonstrated the thing. Is natural that need to compare the objects look more familiar, and
which we find more familiar, and as in the case to judge or speculate on the behavior others we
need to be recalculated on the reasons that influence the determination
of the will inadvertently serve to even what we usually do us and
provide the other the same way we look and appreciate the objects.

This explanation, as simple as founded, dutifully noted the reason
for the difficulty found in shed our ideas and feelings, if they so
rightly calls the in the judgments that we are on the behavior of
others.

Who is not accustomed to seeing purposes other than those of their
country, it is strange how many of them wobbles, and ceasing first
time on home soil is surprised to discover every novelty.

The same thing happens to us in their subject: to anyone that we live more intimately with
ourselves and to the less concentrated friends are very clear need for an awareness course
ordinarily follow his intellect and will. Submit a case, and not attending to which what happens
in the minds of others, as it were in a foreign land, we naturally led to think that will happen
there as well at a little difference that we seen in our homeland. And since I've started comparing,
I might add, that as those who have traveled are not surprised by any variety of ways, and
acquire a certain habit to accommodate them all without surprise
or disgust, and those who have dedicated themselves to the study of
heart, and to the observation of men, are more adept at stripping
of their way see and feel, and fit more easily into the situation
of others like saying that change of costumes and tenor of life, and
take the air and manners of the natives of the new country [7].

CHAPTER VIII.

HUMAN AUTHORITY IN GENERAL.

§ I.
Two necessary conditions to be valid testimony.

Is not always possible
to acquire for ourselves the knowledge of the existence of a be, and
then we must avail ourselves of the testimony of others. For this
we do not induce to error, requires two conditions: 1 ª. that the
witness will not be deceived: 2 ª. we do not want to deceive. Clearly
missing any of these two extremes, his testimony used to find the
truth. Matters little to us that the speaker knows it, if his words
we express the error, and the truthfulness and good faith not profit
us if the possessor is mistaken.

§ II.

Examination and application
of the first condition.

Know if the witness has been misled or not
attending to the media that has been available to reach the truth:
the media and understand its capabilities and other qualities his
personal, more or less fit for purpose.

At referírsenos any fact,
when the narrator was an eyewitness, sometimes the good education
can not ask who has told, but always respond logically to prescribe
this circumstance, and not to provide consent Thin without having
been present. Stereoscope was a new system of another pocket pulled
out a collection of views, a bright, sometimes without light, representing landscapes and most remarkable
monuments of the universe. Around him were grouped immediately all except the head of the family, who
could not interest such trifles, and was placing Romillo and showing them the sights, before
explaining what they meant.

- Around Naples ... There are VV. Vesuvius on one side ... the gulf below ...

- Beautiful country! - Said D. Facundo, who after children, and perhaps
before, was that put more effort on the glass eyes .-- Man, what do
I have to win a trip to Italy.

- Well that.

- If you do not spend
much!

- But the man of God, for whom you want the big cat you have
at home?

Is not it better have fun on behalf of the heirs? - said Dona Martina.

-
My cat is thinner than V. think, Martinita.

- The Leaning Tower of
Pisa.

- What a rare and amazing thing! - Said the Colonel .-- I do
not know how he could build tower.

- Making the vertical through
the center of gravity falls within the base - said Carlitos, who had
studied his little physical activity at school.

- Very good, boy,
very well - said the colonel looked at him .-- You are already a sage.

Charlie blushed with pleasure.

But Henry, who was behind it, was outraged that proof of wisdom who
had just given his brother and whispered:

- Farol!

So you've got the scoop? Lantern tattoo!

The Great Architect, who had long dotted and was not accustomed to suffer insults as gross, For answer
she gave birth to a sovereign nose in the nose.

But Henry, who knew where forces reached his learned brother, without
uttering a complaint, he threw himself on him as a lion, and would
have shattered just in time not to intervene in the conflict Dona
Martina.

- Send the children to bed - ordered D. Bernardo.

- Now,
now, then take Michael to his house - "Mrs. .-- I am hoping that the
raised end of a meal.

- The port of Havana - putting the stereoscope
Romillo said before the Colonel.

- Your country of V. - said Eulalia
Valle, with a hint of a smile.

- Does V. desire to see their land?
- asked Dona Martina.

- And why not, lady!

"- Said the Cuban putting over his eyes and influx admirable .-- I have no desire to see my
countries, the site of the year have deslisado my infansia?

Should I not have something stuck in my place so CORASON Delisi,
that naturalesa so rich?

Apetesé I not find myself see in the midst of virgin forests, under a sielo ASUL always, and baby coconut
water and eat pineapple and banana and guava?

He talked non-stop race and that if he had been wound up.

When he finished his eulogy, your eyes put back in place, and his
face suddenly lost animated expression, as if the internal mechanism
had been stopped.

- Landscape of the Nile - Romillo said.

- From
here came the seven fat cows and seven skinny she saw Joseph in a
dream, is not right? - Dona Martina asked as he stared intently through
the glass.

- Just - Ojeda said, - which symbolize the years of plenty
and poverty.

Did not running around the palace of Pharaoh, Martinita?

- No sir, I do not see, what other animals there are some very ugly
and big snakes ...

- Well, Mom, let me see ...-- Charlie said with
great eagerness.

His mother put forward the stereoscope.

- Are crocodiles - he expressed a child .-- sufficiency belong to the class of reptiles, order of dinosaurs,
crocodilians family.

- Much, much, boy - said the colonel with the same sneer.

- All animals are divided into five types ...

- Nothing more?


    [Footnote A: "It is right to state, that I was much encouraged
    by the lively expression of sympathy in the anti-slavery cause
    in the Yearly Meetings of Philadelphia and New York: that at the
    former place Friends opened a room at the meeting house for my
    friend John Candler to give some information on the subject, and
    at New York the large meeting house was not only readily granted
    to him and me for the same purpose, but the clerks of the Yearly
    Meeting kindly gave notice and invited Friends to attend."]

    "It should be borne in perpetual recollection, that we are in no
    small danger of shrinking from a faithful maintenance of those
    testimonies which are unpopular with the world, as well as of
    not seeing our own neglect of duty, while censuring the zeal or
    supposed indiscretion of others. Besides, if this good cause be
    really endangered by popular excitement, and the indiscretion of
    its imprudent advocates, the obligation of consistent Friends to
    be found at their posts, faithfully maintaining the testimony of
    truth on its behalf, is greatly increased; and it is under such
    circumstances that I think I have seen the peculiar advantage
    and protection to our young friends in England, of having their
    elder brethren with them, aiding them by their sympathy, as well
    as by their advice and counsel. 

A remark on the interest in cheating.

There are cases in which the narrator that seems interested in not telling the truth, it is unlikely
you have done, because soon discovered the lie, without recourse
to alleviate it, would become against him in a disgraceful manner.

Experience teaches us not to be trusted for certain military relations can not be contradicted
later, clearly and with the presence of positive data, producing complete evidence. The greatest
strength of the enemy or under the order or the dispersion with that this or that part of his
army retreated, the number of dead or wounded, I more or less favorable for some positions to address
the situation of the combatants, more or less impassable roads, and other things along those lines,
how can clarify the While the public? Everyone referred to things his own way, according to their
news, interests or desires; and they who know the truth are perhaps the first to darken the circulating
most egregious untruths. Those who come to get rid of the mess, and to see clearly in the
business, or silent, or are challenged by many thousand to sustain the illusion who care, and
falling on the spot cheaters never so shameful that do not allow any disguise. But suppose
that a general who is besieging a place, and can do nothing against it, is imprudent to send
a pompous part of the government, announcing that he has taken by assault and are in possession
of the remains of the garrison who have perished in the fray, at a few days will know the government
knows the public will know the same military that the general lied in a manner so shocking,
and ridicule and the shame that will befall you will impostor pay
dearly for his glory for now.

Here is that in such cases the public's sense often ask if the part It's official: and if it
is, but that ignores the circumstances that seeks to enhance the fact nevertheless lends credence
to the existence of it. So it is noteworthy that when most serious troubles it lies in a scandalous
manner, with the aim of encouraging a few hours and lead to more time, rarely invents a part naming
people, it appeals to the formulas "we know the positive, an eyewitness to refer just" and the
like; offices are supposed to be printed later received, etc. are sorted public rejoicing.
but always tends to leave a way open for a lie does not hit the front too with good sense,
are careful not to compromise the name of specific individuals; in a word, to reign the greatest
audacity, always saved some considerations to public awareness.

To leave it to lend credence to a relationship, not enough to object that the narrator is interested
in not telling the truth, it is necessary to consider whether the
circumstances of the lie is so unfortunate, that soon after its discovery
there in their nakedness, without that fits the deceiver the excuse
that he was mistaken or had been misinformed. No one regrets more than myself that any friends to the
    cause of abolition should connect other topics with it, which,
    however suitable to be discussed on their own merits, must
    necessarily interfere with this simple and momentous object. You
    are aware of some of the circumstances which may have led to the
    state of feeling, with many in our society, which we so much
    deplore. And it is my fervent desire that none of you, in any
    steps you may consider it your duty to take, may afford just
    cause of uneasiness, by any compromise of Christian principle,
    any improper harshness of language, or by the introduction of
    any subject not strictly belonging to the anti-slavery cause.
    Your situation is one of peculiar difficulty and delicacy. Both
    from a regard to your own religious society and the suffering
    slave, you have need to exercise great watchfulness, and to
    cultivate feelings of brotherly love and that 'charity which
    suffereth long, and is kind.' The beautiful example of John
    Woolman, in this respect, is worthy of your imitation. Had a day's whim neck hanging
from the stork three Sanskrit poetry, truly made for him because is very clever and used student.
He wanted to tease someone, without providing for those who tease. And as luck that the lines
fall into your hands and you were you the teased. What else could have happened, you know better
than me.

- Yes I know, "said Poldy, and sadder and more dejected than angry.

And now I ask: Is incompatible to be odds-and belonging to the nobility?

- In any way incompatible. Subject of many bells in the day like today to bazaars, and buying
and selling antiques and curios of all kinds. I have heard Isidoro say the same, having just returned
from his travels, in Lisbon, had tremendous dime no less than Palha, individual one of the
most illustrious and ancient Portuguese families, as witnessed by Cervantes in Don Quixote.
And without going so far in the very capital of Austria, is an egregious count who has a store
of glassware, and a very distinguished gentleman who has wool fabrics
in the streets of Carinthia.

Why then, without dishonor of its bells and coats of arms, not having a dime a man of noble
lineage?

- Perhaps, said Poldy, Isidore of Ziegesburg into that account.

Perhaps your name on the genealogical table of the princely houses, ducal and comital, published
every year the Almanac de Gotha, or at least in the book of the counts,
which also gives annually to the press the same publisher Just Perthes.

-
Do not kid yourself, buddy.

Do not get tired. I must tell you the truth, even grieve. And the truth Isidoro Ziegesburg is a
Jew.

As soon as the Count Henry had uttered that word, that sounded like the trumpet of doom in Poldy
ears burning, raised and educated by his mother and his aunt, from
the tender children in the most ferocious anti-Semitism, when Poldy
began to tremble like a restless and had a violent fit of nervous
laughter.

So violent was that Count Henry was filled with fear, called the nurse and had to bring in
a cup of lime Poldy.

When he finally calmed Poldy, and when he passed his insane laughter, began to sigh and sob, and
poured a flood of tears.

It still felt an odd twitch.

With the handkerchief wiped away the tears, but he rubbed the handkerchief with violence by
the cheeks and lips, as if to pulling the skin and kisses that she
had stamped the Indian prince, converted at odds-Israelite.

XI

After
Poldy got a little calm, fell silent and deep melancholy. Nothing
told her brother or his nurse. They did not dare to question Poldy.

In the present state of this great controversy, the abolitionists may justly say, "he that
is not with us, is against us," while the pro-slavery party can witness, "he that is not against
us, is on our side." Hence the praise bestowed on the neutrality of the Society of Friends
by the great slave-holding senator, Henry Clay. Hence also the suspicious compliments of the
late President Van Buren, the first act of whose administration was a pledge to refuse his
signature to any bill for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. I fear it is
undeniable that in the last eight years the collective influence of the Society has been thrown
into the pro-slavery scale, and this notwithstanding the existence of much diffused and passive
sympathy and right feeling on behalf of the slave, in the breasts of probably a large majority
of individual members. The abolitionists of the United States have been treated by too many
influential Friends, as well as by the leading professors of other denominations, as a party
whose contact is contamination; yet to a bystander it is plainly obvious that the true grounds
of offence are not always those ostensibly alleged, but the activity, zeal, and success with
which they have cleared themselves of participation in other men's sins, and by which they
have condemned the passive acquiescence of a society making a high profession of anti-slavery
principles. I do not intend to defend all the proceedings of the anti-slavery societies. That
they have sometimes erred in judgment and action,--that they have had unworthy men among their
members, I have little doubt. But, the same objections might have been raised to the old anti-slavery
societies, in which the leading Friends of the United States took an active part with their
neighbors of other denominations, and, with far greater force against the Colonization Society,
which is patronized, even to this day, both by individual members and by at least one Meeting
of Sufferings.[A] The causes that have produced the state of things I have attempted to describe,
derive their origin, I believe, from one source--inaction. After the Society of Friends had
purified itself from slave-holding, it gradually subsided into a state of rest, and finally
lapsed into lethargy and indifference on this question. In the world we live in, evil is the
quick and spontaneous growth, while good is the forced and difficult culture. Good principles
can only be preserved bright, pure, and efficient, by watchful care and constant use; if laid
aside, they rust and perish. These are the necessary effects of the fall of man by disobedience
from that state of happiness and holiness in which he was formed by a beneficent Creator. In
a state of inaction, Friends have been exposed to the influences of a corrupt public sentiment;
they have, to a considerable extent, imbibed the prejudice against color, while some of them
have been caught by the gilded bait of southern commerce.

[Footnote A: See Appendix K.]

In a former part of this work I have briefly alluded to that memorable reformation, which,
in the latter part of the preceding century, purged the Society of Friends from the heinous
sins of slave trading and holding slaves. This reformation in Great Britain, with perhaps a
few individual exceptions, consisted merely in the adoption of new convictions, and the abandonment
of lax opinions; but, on the American continent, it was sealed by the willing sacrifice of
an immense amount of property. One can scarcely avoid looking back with regret to times when
convictions of duty had such power, when Christian principle was carried out, whatever the
cost. Then, indeed, was exhibited, by the American Friends, the fruit of a world-overcoming
faith. It must be confessed that the present position of their descendants presents an unpleasing
contrast; yet I trust, that from all I have written, the conclusion will be drawn, that I look
forward to the future with hope; though it is a hope chastened with fear. Next to a fervent
desire that slavery may be speedily abolished, it is one of the warmest wishes of my heart,
that the "Society of Friends" in America, may be among the chiefly honored agents in accomplishing,
in the wisdom and power of Jesus Christ, so great a work, thereby contributing to the fulfilment
of the angelic prophecy of "Glory to God, and good will to man."

I subsequently visited, in company with a colored gentleman, one of the principal colored schools
in New York, in which there were upwards of three hundred children present. All the departments
appeared to be conducted, under colored teachers, with great order and efficiency, and the
attainments of the higher classes were very considerable. When it is weighed the merits of one, and expresses surprise because luck has
not been favorable, it is passed from one computer to another very different one, you want
some effects come from causes that have nothing to do.

Observe carefully to these two men so unequal in wealth, reflect on qualities of both, behold
especially if you can make the experience in a business view lies with the two, and you will
not be difficult to infer that this prosperity as the ruin of a the
other, born of very natural causes.

The one speaks, writes, plans, estimates, give thousand returns to the objects, all evidence, to
all answers, takes over a thousand advantages, disadvantages, hopes, dangers, in a word exhausted
the subject, nothing left to say it or even think. And what does the other? Can you to sustain
the dispute with his opponent? no. "Undo all the calculations that the first ends stacking?
no. Does it meet all the difficulties to which the opinion is opposed by the opponent? no.
In support of his opinion "copy of reasons such claims as its adversary?
no. To achieve the object, what features projects as varied and ingenious?
no. What does it the unfortunate ignorant, fought, harassed, bullied
by his formidable antagonist?

- What I replied V. to this, says the
man in the projects, and knowledge?

- Nothing, but what do I know
?....

- But, do not seem to V. conclusive my reasons?

- Not really.

-
Let's see, do you have V. something to oppose to this calculation?

It is a matter of numbers, here no more.

- Now you see, what is the role goes well and the problem I have is
that in practice same thing happening.

V. Account with many items, that I'm not quite sure, I'm so chastened
....

- But certainly V. data provided to us?

What there will be interest in deceiving? If there is a loss, we
will not be alone, and part of it that we provide the news.

They are knowledgeable, honest, versed in business, and also have interest it, what more do you
want? What reason is there to doubt?

- I do not doubt anything, I think what V. said of these gentlemen, but what do you want? business
I do not like. Also there are so many contingencies that V. does not take into account ....

-
But what eventualities, sir? if you stick to a simple can be, nothing
will carry on; every business has its risks, but here again I fail
to see any with hints probability.

- V. understands more than me,
says crude shrug, and then wisely wagging Head adds: no sir, I repeat
that I do not like business, I for one do not get into it; V. insists
that it should be so profitable speculation, congratulations, see
above.

I not venture my funds.

The victory in the discussion is without doubt the designer, but who is right? Experience will tell.
The rich apparently so stupid, you look less lively than his antagonist, but instead see clearer,
more deeply, in a safer, more insightful, more accurate.

Can not is true, opposing data to data, reflections to reflections, calculations to calculations,
but the discernment touch that characterizes him, unwrapped by observation and by experience,
we are say with certainty that many data are imaginary, that the calculation is inaccurate,
that do not take into account many unfortunate eventualities, not
only possible but very probable; its insightful look has discovered
evidence of bad faith in some involved in the business, his memory
well stocked with news about the behavior in earlier cases, we guide
to assess the true value of intelligence and probity, who praised
him so much the designer.

What cares not to see So if you see better, with more clarity, distinction and accuracy? What cares
about the lack of this facility to think and speak, well adapted to show off, but very barren in good result,
as irrelevant to the object in question?

§ VII.

Observations. The reverie and good sense.

The liveliness is not penetration: the abundance of ideas, not always
brings clarity and accuracy of thought, the readiness of the trial
is often suspected of error, a long number of reasoning too clever,
often suffers from fallacies, which break the wire the inference,
and go astray to be reliable in them.

It is not always easy task to point out these defects to fixed point,
mostly when the facundo have is a brilliant storyteller who develops
his ideas in a stream of beautiful words.

Human reason is by its very thoughtful, have certain qualities as
men to intended to dazzle, to present objects from the point of view
that suits them or the concern that it is not uncommon to experience,
good opinion, the destination, can not answer to a cloud of specious
arguments other than: "this does not go well, these rationales are
not inconclusive; here is illusion, time will manifest.

"

And there are more good things that they feel they do not know, the need to be seen but not tested,
because there are delicate relations, minutiae are almost imperceptible, which is not possible
to show the speech to those who do not discover at the first glance,
there are points very fleeting view, that in vain looking for who
has failed to put them in the right time.

§ VIII.

Delicacy of intellectual phenomena in their relations with practice.

In the exercise of intelligence and other faculties of man, there
are many phenomena that not expressed any word with no sentence, no
speech, understanding that the experience is also necessary to experience
them, and sometimes is just wasted time which is used to give the
impression, as if a man wanted to force view of explanation, give
an idea of ​​the colors to a blind man.

This delicate phenomena abound in every act of our intelligence, but it shows in a particular
way in what is related to the practice. So, should not be abandoned the mind to empty abstractions,
fantastic systems can not be formed purely conventional is necessary
to take things as he does not imagine or want, but as they are, otherwise,
when making the transition from idea to object, will be at odds with
reality and will be baffled all his plans.

Add to this that in the case of the practice, especially in the relations of men with others,
does not affect only the understanding, but others operate simultaneously faculties. There
is only the communication of understanding with understanding, but of heart with heart, to more
than the interplay of ideas, there is also the feelings.

§ IX.

The folly.

The advantage is more gifted in the powers of the soul, if he meets other that either lack any
of them, or have them in lower level, is in the same case that those
who have completed the senses with respect to who is deprived of any.

If you remember these observations, it will save much time and effort, and even trouble in treatment
of men. Laughter sometimes cause its helpless to see how certain
people by away to others of a misjudgment, or make them understand
some truth.

Maybe hear in a solemn conversation with the greatest folly that
serenity and good faith of the world.

Is present a person of good sense, and is shocked and replies, and
sharpens his speech, and strives thousand arguments for the folly
understands its absurdity, and this in spite of everything, not convinced,
and remains so happy, so happy, reflections of his opponents do dent
in his mind unmoved.

And this why? Are you missing news? no. What it lacks in that point is common sense. His natural
disposition, or habits, we have made so, and that strives to convince should think that anyone
who has been able to pour a blunder as complete, can not understand
the power of impeachment.

§ X.

Twisted minds.

There are certain understandings that seem naturally defective, they have the misfortune see everything
under a false view or inaccurate or extravagant. In this case there is no madness, or monomania,
the reason can not say upset, and good sense did not consider the men short of trial. Are often
distinguished by an insufferable talkativeness, effect the speed of perception, and the ease
of reasoning baste.

Hardly anything deemed correctly, and if you enter the right track
soon be dragged away from it for their own speeches.

It happens often see in their reasoning a fine view they make a real
and solid building, the secret is incontestable that have given a
fact uncertain, or doubtful, or inaccurate, or entirely false, or
have settled principle eternal truth of a proposition for free, or
actually taken by a hypothesis, and so have raised a castle that has
no other defects to be in the air.

Rash, hasty, not doing If the reflections of all who hear, no guide to his twisted reason, driven
by their discourse and talk itching, drawn, so to speak, in the turbid stream of own ideas and
words, completely forget the point of departure, not realizing that build everything is purely
fantastic, for lack of foundation.

§ XI.

Inability of these men for business.

No worse for business men; unfortunate case that they put their hand; But many times themselves, if
their things are left to their own and exclusive address. The main skills are a good practical understanding
maturity trial, good sense, tact, and these qualities are lacking to them. When it comes to
come to reality, we must not focus only on the ideas, but think of the objects; and these men
are forgotten almost always of single objects and deal with their ideas. In the practice is
necessary to think, not what things should or could be, but what
are, and they tend to stand less on what they are, that they could
or should be.

When a man of clear understanding and right view, is trying a case with one that is vitiated
by the defects just described, is in the greatest perplexity. What that is clear, that it is
dark, so the first thought out of the question, the second looks to be very disputable. The judicious
raises the question in a way that seems very natural and simple, brooding looks differently,
it would seem that two men of which have a sort of intellectual strabismus puzzled and confused
the seeing and looks good.

§ XII.

This birth defect intellectual ground a moral cause.

Reflecting on the causes of such aberrations, it is not difficult to see that the origin is in the
heart rather than head. These men tend to be extremely vain; self-esteem misunderstood inspires
the desire to be singled out at all, and at last come a habit to get away from what others think
and say, that is, to put in contradiction with common sense.

The proof that delivered naturally at its own understanding does not look so erroneously objects,
and that the fall in ridiculous aberrations rather be a desire to be singled become a habit,
is often distinguished by a spirit of constant opposition. If the defect was in the head, there
would be no reason for that in almost all matters they held when the others did not say yes,
and they were by themselves when the others are by no, is worthy
of note that sometimes there is a safe way to carry them the truth,
and is sustaining the error.

I agree that often they do not realize everything they do, they have no conscience well clear
of the inspiration of the vanity that drives them and subdues, but the unfortunate inspiration not
cease to exist, or ceases to be remediable if there are those who tell it, mostly if age, social
status and flattery, there have been evil to the bitter end. And no wonder favorable opportunities
that arise to warn with some fruit, for those men recklessness, tend
to attract upon himself bitter disappointment, if not disgrace, and
then dejected by adversity, and taught by painful experience, often
have lucid intervals that can exploit a sincere friend to let them
hear the advice of a sensible reason.

For the rest, when a cruel reality has not yet come to disabuse them, when their unreason accesses
are given without measure to the vanity of their projects, there is often another means to resist
them be silent, with folded arms, and shaking his head, suffering with stoical impassive Avenue
impetuous their risky propositions, their reasoning incoherent, its outlandish schemes.

And by the way that it always causes impassive occasionally salutary
effects: because the desire for play ends when no one can replicate,
there is no opposition when no attacks.

That's not unusual to see those men to herself little time to overwhelm with his loquacity
who do not answer, and admonished by the eloquence of silence, dispense with their annoying petulance.
They are restless and ardent souls who live for conflict and that in turn needs contradiction:
if there is not, stops the struggle, and if they strive to understand, very soon fussing when they
notice that far from dealing with an enemy determined to fight, preying
in whom has been given as a victim in the interests of unwelcome verbiage.

§

XIII.

Christian humility in its dealings with worldly business.

Christian humility, that virtue which makes us know the limits of our strength, we reveal our own
defects, we are not allowed to exaggerate our merit, or exalted on the other, we do not despise
anyone aware that inclines us to take advantage of advice and example of all, even the lower,
which makes us look like frivolous unworthy of a serious mind walking
in search of applause, the flavor in the smoke of flattery; let us
not ever believe we have arrived at the summit of perfection in any
sense, not blind us to the point of not seeing how much we have to
advance, and the advantage we have others that virtue which is the
truth well understood, but the truth for knowledge of who we are,
our relationships with God and men, the truth to guide our behavior
so that we do not misplace the exaggerations of self-love that virtue,
again, is very useful in everything pertaining to the practice, even
in purely worldly things.

Yes, Christian humility, instead of some sacrifices, produce great benefits, until on the most
distant of devotion. The superb shopping dearly own satisfaction; and does not warn the victim
that sacrifices to the idol that has risen in his heart, are sometimes their dearest interests,
the same glory after so desolate that run.

§ XIV.

Damages which the vanity and pride.

Ajan many reputations, if not destroyed, by the miserable vanity! How is dissipated the illusion
that inspired a great name, if you find yourself to approach him
with a person only speaks of herself!

Many men, moreover recomendabilísimos, tarnish, and even become an object of ridicule, by a
tone of superiority, which clashes and angry, or attracts the poisoned darts of satire! Many businesses
are bent on dire, steps are disastrous are discredited or lost, only because they have given to
his own thinking in a way exclusively, without giving any importance
to the Council, the reflections or indications those who watched more
clear, but they had the misfortune to be looked up and down, to a
immense distance, and that god mind that dwells there in the great
empyrean made his vanity, did not deign to descend to the tiny region
where dwells the multitude of modest deadly!

And why did he need to consult anyone? The elevation of his understanding, security and success of
his trial, the force of his penetration, the extent of his foresight, sagacity combination thereof,
are not things already proverbial? The success of all businesses it has involved, who should
but him? If very serious difficulties have been overcome, Who but he has exceeded them? If
everything is not spoiled their peers, who would but he has avoided? What thought has conceived of some
importance that has not conceived him? What have been the other occurrence that far in advance
I would not have had him? What would have served as excogitating others, if I had not rectified
amended, illustrated, enlarged, directed it?

Contemplate him, his face seems to threaten the lofty sky, his eye requires urgent submission and
compliance, on his lips hovers disdain everything around him, in
all its features you will see brimming with complacency in himself,
the affectation of his gestures and mannerisms I present a man full
of himself, which comes with excessive composure, as if afraid to
spill.

Take the word, resignaos to shut up. "Replicais? not hear your replies and continues on his way;
"Insist again? the same disdain, accompanied by a look that demands attention and requires silence.
 Their gratification,
in this respect, has been much facilitated of late by the rapid extension of railways. 

PAULINE Garagorri

I

A friend of mine, deputy novel, whose name was
not put here because it is the case, was entusiasmadísimo with his
district and particularly the place where he had his greatest strength,
place we designate by the name of Villalegre.

This rich, but small population Andalusia, was flourishing then,
because its fertile vineyards, which had not yet phylloxera destroyed,
producing exquisite wines to be sold to Jerez to be agreed in Jerez.

Villalegre was not the head of the judicial district, or officially the most important population
constituency of our friend, but there were few votes were so subordinate a big vote, all voted
unanimously and, as they say, poured the stew for the person whom the Great Elector appointed.
And understand that this was unanimously to Villalegre, in all elections,
the most extraordinary dominance.

Grateful to our friend the chief of Villalegre, named Don Andrés Rubio, I gave by clouds and
we cited it as proof and example of that fortune is not blind and that favor with one who is worth
it, but with certain limitations, that is not out of the circle he
lives and shows its worth the lucky person.

Without doubt, don Andrés Rubio, had he lived in Rome in the early centuries of the Christian era,
had been a Marco Aurelio or Trajan, but as Villalegre and lived in
our age, quieted and contented with being the chief, or rather the
end or the emperor Villalegre where he was joint number and where
he bowed to the rule and obeying all happy.

Rep. novel, however, more exalted district to another subject, because without it there showed
benevolent omnipotence of Andres Rubio.

Just as Philip II, Louis XIV, Pope Leo X and almost all the great sovereigns have had a favorite
minister and constant without which it might not have displayed his wonderful attitude and
would not have achieved hegemony for his country, Don Andrés Rubio was also the minister who,
within the small circle where he worked, was a Bismarck or Cavour. This character called Don Francisco
Lopez and was secretary of the City, but nobody called him but Don Paco.

Although he had met and fifty-three, was so well preserved that resembled
younger.

He was tall, lean meat, agile and strong, with very few gray hairs yet, to trim and black mustache
and beard, very dapper and neat in his person and attire, and blue eyes expressive and large. He
lacked either grind or tooth, which was healthy, firm and very white and equal.

Don Paco spent amenísima and joyful man conversation, peppered with
jokes you laugh without offending or hurting a lot of neighbor, and
by working storyteller because he knew perfectly the life and miracles,
the sets of love and fortune and wealth and poverty of those living
and breathing human beings in Villalegre and twenty leagues radius.

This, with regard to taste. For what is useful, Don Paco was better: it was a real handyman.
As in the village, although there were two and three doctors licensed in law, were lawyers
Peperris, or dry, all went to Don Paco, Rabbula and jurist, he knew
more laws that were invented, and helped to compose or composing any
motion or pleading litigious business on a commitment and amount.

 A very harmonious and satisfactory discussion took place, and
the following statement of the proceedings was subsequently handed to me by the gentleman who
officiated as secretary to the meeting:

[Footnote A: Since elected President of the American Peace Society.]

    "A meeting of the friends of peace was held in the city of
    Boston, on the evening of the 29th day of July, 1841.

    "The meeting was called for the purpose of meeting Mr. Joseph
    Sturge, from England, and there were present most of the active
    members of the American Peace Society.

    "Amasa Walker, Esq., was chosen chairman; and J.P. Blanchard,
    secretary.

    "Mr. Sturge addressed the meeting, and suggested the expediency
    of calling, at some future time, a Convention of the friends of
    peace, of different nations, to deliberate upon the best method
    of adjusting international disputes; and, offered, for the
    consideration of the meeting, a plan proposed by Judge Jay, in
    which all the friends of peace could unite.

    "The meeting was then addressed by several gentlemen, who
    cordially approved the plan proposed, and, subsequently, the
    following resolutions were unanimously adopted. Embarazarian exceptions too; the easiest
thing is to build an universal proposition: behold the axiom. Come after numerous cases not included
in it does not matter: this object is conceived in terms general and unclear or unintelligible,
to be interpreted in a thousand different ways suffer on your screen all the exceptions you
want without losing any of its prestigious reputation. Meanwhile, the axiom serves admirably to build
an extravagant reasoning, giving weight to an absurd trial, or banish a hard constraints: they
are offered to the spirit doubts about the truth of what you stand for, when it is feared that the
building does not come to the floor with thunderous ruin himself is said the spirit, "No, no
danger, the foundation is solid; is an axiom and an axiom is a principle of eternal truth. "

To deserve the name, it is necessary that the proposition is so obvious to the spirit, as what
are the objects we look eye present, due to distance, and in the middle of the day. In not
entirely convinced leaving the understanding from that is offered, and once understood the meaning
of the terms in which it is stated, should not be admitted to this class. Flawed ideas by an axiom
false, sort are all very different things than they are in themselves, and errors are much
more dangerous, as the most deceitful lies in understanding security.

§ III.

Propositions are too general.

If we were known the essence of things, we could establish with respect to it proposals universal,
without any kind of exception, because the essence remains the same in all beings of the same
species, it is clear that what the one afirmásemos, would be equally applicable them all. But
as with respect to said essentially know little, and imperfectly, and often nothing is so common
there that can not speak of beings, but relation to the properties that are within our reach, and
often do not discern if they are rooted in the essence of the thing, or if they are purely accidental.
Tenders general suffer from this defect, because they express what we conceive and judge, can
not be extended but to what our spirit is known. Hence it is suffering thousand exceptions that
did not foresee, and perhaps find that it had made a rule that was
nothing more than the exception.

This happens even if a lot of work from one who sets general proposition,
what will be, if we look at the lijereza with which they are often
formed and issue?

§ IV.

Inaccurate definitions.

These can be said about the same as the axioms that serve as direct light perception and opinion,
and point of support to strengthen the intellect. It's about how difficult a good definition,
and in many cases impossible. The reason is obvious: the definition explains the essence of
the thing defined, and how do you explain what is unknown? Despite size disadvantage in all
sciences there a multitude of definitions that go currency which good law, and although it often
happens that authors rise against the definitions of others, they in turn take care of replacing
them with yours, that make move throughout the work by taking them based on their speeches.
If the definition is to be the explanation of the essence of the thing, and knowing this essence
is so difficult business, Why is being defined in such a hurry?

The target of the investigations is the knowledge the nature of beings, for the proposition
that explains this, it is that the definition, should be the last to issue the author. In the definition
is the equations with solving the riddle, and the resolution of the problems this equation is
the latest.

What we can clearly define it as purely conventional, because the nature of being conventional
is that which we give ourselves for the reasons that seem good. Thus,
since it is not possible in many cases set the thing, at least we
should fix it what we mean when we talk about it, or in other words,
we should define the word with which we intend to express the thing.
I do not know what the sun does not know its nature; and therefore
its definition if you ask me, I can not give it. But I know what I
mean when I say the word sun, so be easy for me to explain what she
meant.
A considerable number of the factory girls are farmers' daughters, and come hither from Vermont,
New Hampshire, and other distant States, to work for two, three, or four years, when they return
to their native hills, dowered with a little capital of their own earnings. The factory operatives
at Lowell form a community that commands the respect of the neighborhood, and of all under
whose observation they come. No female of an immoral character could remain a week in any of
the mills. The superintendent of the Boott Corporation informed me, that, during the five and
a half years of his superintendence of that factory, employing about nine hundred and fifty
young women, he had known of but one case of an illegitimate birth--and the mother was an Irish
"immigrant." Any male or female employed, who was known to be in a state of inebriety, would
be at once dismissed.

At the suggestion of the benevolent and intelligent superintendent of the Boott Company, we
waited to see the people turn out to dinner, at half-past twelve o'clock. 

As in Austria, as well as the nobility, Czech, Polish, Hungarian, Romanian, Croatian, Serbian,
Dalmatian, etc., there is of Irish, French, Spanish and Italian, of course could also having
Brahmanical and chatriesco home.

Another thing, something that angered Poldy, was the presence at the picture of those three
Bayadere so lightly dressed, so little modest and restrained in their dances. But Poldy also
be easy on this Indian outrage, and if not excused, you explained and almost forgave him.
The Indian had Bayadere, and made that life broken, out of pure oriental, when he was still mired
in the darkness of paganism, but when thanks to the Jesuit priest, became the true religion, Poldy
amendment was to secure and neglect that had left their vicious sport.

The

only thing in this business was sorry he had not been the Indian his catechumens because she had
become better than Jesuit priest, and had not given him the stack baptismal name as ugly as that
of Isidore. Poldy perhaps unaware that there had been a saint Archbishop of that name, famous scholar,
who collected and ordered their books all know of his time, and was in line with what he had
heard from an old princess, her aunt, terrible anti-Semitic, which persisted in asserting princess's
name was very common Isidoro among Jews, where he hated in such a way that had temptations
to dismiss an excellent because of his servants named Isidoro, and just resigned himself to keep him
in forcing service Filidoro renamed onwards.

Moreover, Poldy could not be happier or more satisfied. The Isthmus of Suez, just opened and
already sensed Poldy through the channel, saving the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb, and browsing the
Eritrean Sea, heading towards India, to visit the villas, gardens and palaces of her young husband.

It's
coming and could not take much, and Poldy was dying of impatience
to see him live and not painted, body and soul, not in picture.

What aroused his curiosity and tickled brain soft fabrics Padmini was the condition that he
gave the young Indian.
 Now
    let it be borne in mind, that there are four or five Sunday
    Schools in the city, some of which are large and flourishing,
    not included in this statement. Let it be borne in mind, too,
    that a great proportion of these scholars are the factory girls,
    and furthermore, that these most gratifying results just given,
    have nothing in them extraordinary--they are only the common,
    ordinary results of several of the past years. 

Tired and sad, in the middle of the path where the castle was returned, Poldy sat at foot of
an elm, in a rustic seat, and the most lush, intricate and beautiful the park. A crystal stream
ran close whispering. Silently, quietly,
    unobtrusively, from Sabbath to Sabbath, in these little
    nurseries of truth, duty and religion, has the good seed been
    sowing and springing up--watered by the dews, and warmed by the
    smiles of heaven--to everlasting life....

    "I shall now proceed to enumerate some of the influences which
    have been most powerful in bringing about these results. In the first, in the five years between 1874 and 1879,
are published Pepita, Las ilusiones del doctor Faustino, El Comendador Mendoza Too clever, and Luz,
in a run of exceptional intensity, was then Valera between fifty and fifty-five years and the
dedication prefaced to The Commander Mendoza set the confidences that I quoted at the beginning.
Had continued to that air, don Juan Valera had written as much as Galdós - the largest Spanish
novelists and not only in quantity - and his life and his work would be others. But despite
the efforts of the author benevolent and public acceptance, the household accounts did not
add, is accentuated the "scarcity of precious metals" and, under another chance, Valera returned
to diplomacy. Another element is also reiterated in his novels: love,
difficult, between men and women are mature enough to still unripe.

Among the happiest of Valera pages are those that title The Cordoba,
description and analysis beautiful women of his land.