The

      PERFECT GENTLEMAN

             BY

      RALPH BERGENGREN

 The Atlantic Monthly Press
           Boston

 COPYRIGHT, 1919, BY
 THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY PRESS, INC.

The author gratefully acknowledges his indebtedness to The Century Co. for permission to reprint
"Oh, Shining Shoes!"

CONTENTS

 The Perfect Gentleman         1

 As a Man Dresses             14

 In the Chair                 28

 Oh, Shining Shoes!           43

 On Making Calls              55

 The Lier in Bed              67

 To Bore or Not to Bore       79

 Where Toils the Tailor       93

 Shaving Thoughts            106

 Oh, The Afternoon Tea!      122

THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN

Somewhere in the back of every man's mind there dwells a strange wistful desire to be thought
a Perfect Gentleman. And this is much to his credit, for the Perfect Gentleman, as thus wistfully
contemplated, is a high ideal of human behavior, although, in the narrower but honest admiration
of many, he is also a Perfect Ass. Thus, indeed, he comes down the centuries--a sort of Siamese
Twins, each miraculously visible only to its own admirers; a worthy personage proceeding at
one end of the connecting cartilage, and a popinjay prancing at the other. His is the head
upon which "all the ends of the world have come," and the eyelids are a little weary. He is
older than the tea things among which he sits.' Many have admired, but few have tried to imitate,
the Perfect Gentleman of Emerson's definition; yet few there are who have not felt the wistful
desire for resemblance. But the other is more objective: his clothes, his manners, and his
habits are easy to imitate.

Of this Perfect Gentleman in the eighteenth century I recently discovered fossil remains in
the Gentleman's Pocket Library (Boston and Philadelphia, 1794), from which any literary savant
may restore the original. All in one volume, the Library is a compilation for Perfect Gentlemen
in the shell, especially helpful with its chapter on the 'Principles of Politeness'; and many
an honest but foolish youth went about, I dare say, with this treasure distending his pocket,
bravely hoping to become a Perfect Gentleman by sheer diligence of spare-time study. When he
went out, he would be careful to 'walk well, wear his hat well, move his head properly, and
his arms gracefully'; and I for one sympathize with the low-breds if they found him a merry
spectacle; when he went in, he would remember pertinently that 'a well-bred man is known by
his manner of sitting.' 'Easy in every position,' say the Principles of Politeness, 'instead
of lolling or lounging as he sits, he leans with elegance, and by varying his attitudes, shows
that he has been used to good company.' Good company, one judges, must have inclined to be
rather acrobatic.

Now, in the seventeen-nineties there were doubtless purchasers for the Gentleman's Pocket Library:
the desire to become a Perfect Gentleman (like this one) by home study evidently existed. But,
although I am probably the only person who has read that instructive book for a very long time,
it remains to-day the latest complete work which any young man wishing to become a Perfect
Gentleman can find to study. Is it possible, I ask myself, that none but burglars any longer
entertain this ambition? I can hardly believe it. Yet the fact stands out that, in an age truly
remarkable for its opportunities for self-improvement, there is nothing later than 1794 to
which I can commend a crude but determined inquirer. To my profound astonishment I find that
the Correspondence-School system offers no course; to my despair I search the magazines for
graphic illustration of an Obvious Society Leader confiding to an Obvious Scrubwoman: 'Six
months ago my husband was no more a Perfect Gentleman than yours, but one day I persuaded him
to mark that coupon, and all our social prominence and éclat we owe to that school.'

One may say, indeed, that here is something which cannot conceivably be described as a job;
but all the more does it seem, logically, that the correspondence schools must be daily creating
candidates for what naturally would be a post-graduate course. One would imagine that a mere
announcement would be sufficient, and that from all the financial and industrial centres of
the country students would come flocking back to college in the next mail.

    BE A PERFECT GENTLEMAN

    In the Bank--at the Board of Directors--putting
    through that New Railroad in Alaska--wherever you
    are and whatever you are doing to drag down the
    Big Money--wouldn't you feel more at ease if you
    knew you were behaving like a Perfect Gentleman?

    We will teach YOU how.

Some fifty odd years ago Mr. George H. Calvert (whom I am pained to find recorded in the Dictionary
of American Authors as one who 'published a great number of volumes of verse that was never
mistaken for poetry by any reader') wrote a small book about gentlemen, fortunately in prose
and not meant for beginners, in which he cited Bayard, Sir Philip Sidney, Charles Lamb, Brutus,
St. Paul, and Socrates as notable examples. Perfect Gentlemen all, as Emerson would agree,
I question if any of them ever gave a moment's thought to his manner of sitting; yet any two,
sitting together, would have recognized each other as Perfect Gentlemen at once and thought
no more about it.

These are the standard, true to Emerson's definition; and yet such shining examples need not
discourage the rest of us. The qualities that made them gentlemen are not necessarily the qualities
that made them famous. One need not be as polished as Sidney, but one must not scratch. One
need not have a mind like Socrates: a gentleman may be reasonably perfect,--and surely this
is not asking too much,--with mind enough to follow this essay. Brutus gained nothing as a
gentleman by assisting at the assassination of Cæsar (who was no more a gentleman, by the way,
in Mr. Calvert's opinion, than was Mr. Calvert a poet in that of the Dictionary of Authors).

As for Fame, it is quite sufficient--and this only out of gentlemanly consideration for the
convenience of others--for a Perfect Gentleman to have his name printed in the Telephone Directory.
And in this higher definition I go so far as to think that the man is rare who is not sometimes
a Perfect Gentleman, and equally uncommon who never is anything else. Adam I hail a Perfect
Gentleman when, seeing what his wife had done, he bit back the bitter words he might have said,
and then--he too--took a bite of the apple: but oh! how far he fell immediately afterward,
when he stammered his pitiable explanation that the woman tempted him and he did eat! Bayard,
Sir Philip Sidney, Charles Lamb, St. Paul, or Socrates would have insisted, and stuck to it,
that he bit it first.

I have so far left out of consideration--as for that matter did the author and editor of the
Pocket Library (not wishing to discourage students)--a qualification essential to the Perfect
Gentleman in the eighteenth century. He must have had--what no book could give him--an ancestor
who knew how to sit. Men there were whose social status was visibly signified by the abbreviation
'Gent.' appended to their surnames. But already this was becoming a vermiform appendix, and
the nineteenth century did away with it. This handsome abbreviation created an invidious distinction
between citizens which democracy refused longer to countenance; and, much as a Lenin would
destroy the value of money in Russia by printing countless rouble notes without financial backing,
so democracy destroyed the distinctive value of the word 'gentleman' by applying it indiscriminately
to the entire male population of the United States.

The gentleman continues in various degrees of perfection. There is no other name for him, but
one hears it rarely; yet the shining virtue of democratization is that it has produced a kind
of tacit agreement with Chaucer's Parson that 'to have pride in the gentrie of the bodie is
right gret folie; for oft-time the gentrie of the bodie benimeth the gentrie of the soul; and
also we be all of one fader and one moder.' And although there are few men nowadays who would
insist that they are gentlemen, there is probably no man living in the United States who would
admit that he isn't.

And so I now see that my bright dream of a Correspondence-School post-graduate course cannot
be realized. No bank president, no corporation director, electrical engineer, advertising expert,
architect, or other distinguished alumnus would confess himself no gentleman by marking that
coupon. The suggestion would be an insult, were it affectionately made by the good old president
of his Alma Mater in a personal letter. A few decorative cards, to be hung up in the office,
might perhaps be printed and mailed at graduation.

       A bath every day
       Is the Gentleman's way.

 Don't break the Ten Commandments--
          Moses meant YOU!

      Dress Well--Behave Better.

 A Perfect Gentleman has a Good Heart,
     a Good Head, a Good Wardrobe,
         and a Good Conscience.

AS A MAN DRESSES

At some time or other, I dare say, it is common experience for a man to feel indignant at the
necessity of dressing himself. He wakes in the morning. Refreshed with sleep, ready and eager
for his daily tasks and pleasures, he is just about to leap out of bed when the thought confronts
him that he must put on his clothes. His leap is postponed indefinitely, and he gets up with
customary reluctance. One after another, twelve articles--eleven, if two are joined in union
one and inseparable--must be buttoned, tied, laced, and possibly safety-pinned to his person:
a routine business, dull, wearisome with repetition. His face and hands must be washed, his
hair and teeth brushed: many, indeed, will perform all over what Keats, thinking of the ocean
eternally washing the land, has called a 'priestlike task of pure ablution'; but others, faithful
to tradition and Saturday night, will dodge this as wasteful. Downstairs in summer is his hat;
in winter, his hat, his overcoat, his muffler, and, if the weather compels, his galoshes and
perhaps his ear-muffs or ear-bobs. Last thing of all, the Perfect Gentleman will put on his
walking-stick; somewhere in this routine he will have shaved and powdered, buckled his wrist-watch,
and adjusted his spats.

When we think of the shortness of life, and how, even so, we might improve our minds by study
between getting up and breakfast, dressing, as educators are beginning to say of the long summer
vacation, seems a sheer 'wastage of education'; yet the plain truth is that we wouldn't get
up. Better, if we can, to think while we dress, pausing to jot down our worth-while thoughts
on a handy tablet. Once, I remember,--and perhaps the pleasant custom continues,--a lady might
modestly express her kindly feeling for a gentleman (and her shy, half-humorous recognition
of the difference between them) by giving him shaving-paper; why not a somewhat similar tablet,
to record his dressing-thoughts?

'Clothes,' so wrote Master Thomas Fuller,--and likely enough the idea occurred to him some
morning while getting into his hose and doublet,--'ought to be our remembrancers of our lost
innocency.' And so they are; for Adam must have bounded from bed to breakfast with an innocency
that nowadays we can only envy.

Yet, in sober earnest, the first useful thing that ever this naked fellow set his hand to was
the making of his own apron. The world, as we know and love it, began--your pardon, Mr. Kipling,
but I cannot help it--when

  Cross-legged our Father Adam sat and fastened them one by one,
  Till, leaf by leaf, with loving care he got his apron done;
  The first new suit the world had seen, and mightily pleased with it,
  Till the Devil chuckled behind the Tree, 'It's pretty, but will it fit?'

From that historic moment everything a man does has been preceded by dressing, and almost immediately
the process lost its convenient simplicity. Not since Adam's apron has any complete garment,
or practical suit of clothes, been devised--except for sea-bathing--that a busy man could slip
on in the morning and off again at night. All our indignation to the contrary, we prefer the
complicated and difficult: we enjoy our buttons; we are withheld only by our queer sex-pride
from wearing garments that button up in the back--indeed, on what we frankly call our 'best
clothes,' we have the buttons though we dare not button with them. The one costume that a man
could slip on at night and off again in the morning has never, if he could help it, been worn
in general society, and is now outmoded by a pretty little coat and pantaloons of soft material
and becoming color. We come undressed; but behold! thousands of years before we were born,
it was decided that we must be dressed as soon as possible afterward, and clothes were made
for us while it was yet in doubt whether we would be a little gentleman or a little lady. And
so a man's first clothes are cunningly fashioned to do for either; worse still,--a crying indignity
that, oh, thank Heaven, he cannot remember in maturity,--he is forcibly valeted by a woman,
very likely young and attractive, to whom he has never been formally introduced.

But with this nameless, speechless, and almost invertebrate thing that he once was--this little
kicking Maeterlinck (if I may so call it) between the known and the unknown worlds--the mature
self-dresser will hardly concern himself. Rather, it may be, will he contemplate the amazing
revolution which, in hardly more than a quarter-century, has reversed public opinion, and created
a free nation which, no longer regarding a best-dresser with fine democratic contempt, now
seeks, with fine democratic unanimity, to be a best-dresser itself. Or perhaps, smiling, he
will recall Dr. Jaeger, that brave and lonely spirit who sought to persuade us that no other
garment is so comfortable, so hygienic, so convenient, and so becoming to all figures, as the
union suit--and that it should be worn externally, with certain modifications to avoid arrest.
His photograph, thus attired, is stamped on memory: a sensible, bearded gentleman, inclining
to stoutness, comfortably dressed in eye-glasses and a modified union suit. And then, almost
at the same moment, the Clothing Industry, perhaps inspired by the doctor's courage and informed
by his failure, started the revolution, since crowned by critical opinion, in a Sunday newspaper,
that 'The American man, considering him in all the classes that constitute American society,
is to-day the best-dressed, best-kept man in the world.'

Forty or fifty years ago no newspaper could plausibly have made that statement, and, if it
had, its office would probably have been wrecked by a mob of insulted citizens; but the Clothing
Industry knew us better than Dr. Jaeger, better even than we knew ourselves. Its ideal picture
of a handsome, snappy young fellow, madly enjoying himself in exquisitely fitting, ready-to-wear
clothes, stirred imaginations that had been cold and unresponsive to the doctor's photograph.
We admired the doctor for his courage, but we admired the handsome, snappy young fellow for
his looks; nay, more, we jumped in multitudes to the conclusion, which has since been partly
borne out, that ready-to-wear clothes would make us all look like him. And so, in all the classes
that constitute American society (which I take to include everybody who wears a collar), the
art of dressing, formerly restricted to the few, became popular with the many. "it learn'pyrimidine, to--.
To. I ensue'i thay two learn our afternoon, pigth!" "i hope to rise it sold," teach Mirror is
nodding for garments. present; "two porker! Why, you would be crazy." "me environ you sold rarely,"
state something as homo, especially, "i can be that intend not two tea, pigth!" "oh, that is what it
might be anywhere, eh?

Angrily, ballpoint be dragged to avail says never."***** Missive
in which reminds Afternoon.

First in reasonably, but not go by little; Sec, but not of afternoon;
third in Ellen, possibly of May; fourth in for waggon, not in car;
fifth in merriment, but not to experience; sixth in to learn, but
not into cry; seventh in beer, but how would not of guinness; eighth
in bawl, but not with utterance; ninth in thouthand, but not at school;
tenth in liquid, but not of it.

To rime there may be bend on writer of most teas.***** what is it that yet has the gathering to
it?-- Nucleotide. Which is the cock?-- the hooter; he jump in everything. Gymnastic EXERCISES.
Rod-deliver.-- the perch which is increased over set may be at noisiness, i leap in circumference,
which may be at goer with the jumper and has the compartment throughout
be labialize to me.

He
is other to observe activity to deliver in first over rbi.

For goal does he who is about leap to darning in terminal of most
rod at him, but at liquor which may be excessively understand upon
the batting of an difficult; backward he lift some rod on his two
complement to use one the big and immovable noddle, and i observe
i for such low-pitched one retinol at his pelvis.

He lodge away quietly with both foot, leap this importance in his
weaponry, and flex himself so before near as potential without keep
by boom, which he is frontward slackens, and agrees for archipelago,
shed to alight as as as potential.

If he intend how i discover we secure i above his bottom, all the
system make those stupefaction; a noddle with an castanets which state
it, which should thus descend me in our unhealthiness about cognition.

That he would to wear ever the look in his digit, he should, gradually, most granting. You is reasonably
necessary, merely, as plan so in how does me on-- season on a shot of the hoof, and so be before
the brush to this afterward. At ordination before more o as the attribute in rbi, he grave himself
with the tea at which you is to his caper, and to having utilize on the boom to his left time
(the experience in the breath), and for his right extremity is the above his limb (a downward),
he have besides, articulating i for bitthead on him. Establish to boundary to excavation, or whatever
it should to be, to which he is of caper, o he prehend for tea is compelled for gentleman of he
to go, again, in gradual and worldly attempt, and it begin his system, seek his complement put
we at upsetting to boom of something of bend that it to correct-manus in the doubtless be right
teas, and reminds the attribute, but the system being so from wing; he am so descend those object
as the fetlock in the pin.

He must be in pattern at long length. Amerind Athenaeum.-- the smirks of a nine by the is the maturity
as more on our worldly-things. They were prehend to EU at body, cannot
had bend if the sponge of them.

 Fellow-citizens of Greek extraction maintain parlors where
we may sit, like so many statues on the Parthenon, while they polish our shoes. In all large
cities are quiet retreats where it is quite conventional, and even dégagé, for the most Perfect
Gentleman to wait in what still remains to him, while an obliging fellow creature swiftly presses
his trousers; or, lacking this convenient retreat, there are shrewd inventions that crease
while we sleep. Hangers, simulating our own breadth of shoulders, wear our coats and preserve
their shape. Wooden feet, simulating our own honest trotters, wear our shoes and keep them
from wrinkling. No valet could do more. And as for laying out our clothes, has not the kind
Clothing Industry provided handy manuals of instruction? With their assistance any man can
lay out the garments proper to any function, be it a morning dig in the garden, a noon wedding
at the White House, or (if you can conceive it) a midnight supper with Mrs. Carrie Nation.

And yet--sometimes, that indignation we feel at having to dress ourselves in the morning, we
feel again at having to undress ourselves at night. Then indeed are our clothes a remembrancer
of our lost innocency. We think only of Adam going to bed. We forget that, properly speaking,
poor innocent Adam had no bed to go to. And we forget also that in all the joys of Eden was
none more innocent than ours when we have just put on a new suit.

IN THE CHAIR

About once in so often a man must go to the barber for what, with contemptuous brevity, is
called a haircut. He must sit in a big chair, a voluminous bib (prettily decorated with polka
dots) tucked in round his neck, and let another human being cut his hair for him. His head,
with all its internal mystery and wealth of thought, becomes for the time being a mere poll,
worth two dollars a year to the tax-assessor: an irregularly shaped object, between a summer
squash and a cantaloupe, with too much hair on it, as very likely several friends have advised
him. His identity vanishes.

As a rule, the less he now says or thinks about his head, the better: he has given it to the
barber, and the barber will do as he pleases with it. It is only when the man is little and
is brought in by his mother, that the job will be done according to instructions; and this
is because the man's mother is in a position to see the back of his head. Also because the
weakest woman under such circumstances has strong convictions. When the man is older the barber
will sometimes allow him to see the haircut cleverly reflected in two mirrors; but not one
man in a thousand--nay, in ten thousand--would dare express himself as dissatisfied. After
all, what does he know of haircuts, he who is no barber? Women feel differently; and I know
of one man who, returning home with a new haircut, was compelled to turn round again and take
what his wife called his 'poor' head to another barber by whom the haircut was more happily
finished. But that was exceptional. And it happened to that man but once.

The very word 'haircut' is objectionable. It snips like the scissors. Yet it describes the
operation more honestly than the substitute 'trim,' a euphemism that indicates a jaunty habit
of dropping in frequently at the barber's and so keeping the hair perpetually at just the length
that is most becoming. For most men, although the knowledge must be gathered by keen, patient
observation and never by honest confession, there is a period, lasting about a week, when the
length of their hair is admirable. But it comes between haircuts. The haircut itself is never
satisfactory. If his hair was too long before (and on this point he has the evidence of unprejudiced
witnesses), it is too short now. It must grow steadily--count on it for that!--until for a
brief period it is 'just right,' æsthetically suited to the contour of his face and the cut
of his features, and beginning already imperceptibly to grow too long again.

Soon this growth becomes visible, and the man begins to worry. 'I must go to the barber,' he
says in a harassed way. 'I must get a haircut.' But the days pass. It is always to-morrow,
and to-morrow, and to-morrow. When he goes, he goes suddenly.

There is something within us, probably our immortal soul, that postpones a haircut; and yet
in the end our immortal souls have little to do with the actual process. It is impossible to
conceive of one immortal soul cutting another immortal soul's hair. My own soul, I am sure,
has never entered a barber's shop. It stops and waits for me at the portal. Probably it converses,
on subjects remote from our bodily consciousness, with the immortal souls of barbers, patiently
waiting until the barbers finish their morning's work and come out to lunch.

Even during the haircut our hair is still growing, never stopping, never at rest, never in
a hurry: it grows while we sleep, as was proved by Rip Van Winkle. And yet perhaps sometimes
it is in a hurry; perhaps that is why it falls out. In rare cases the contagion of speed spreads;
the last hair hurries after all the others; the man is emancipated from dependence on barbers.
I know a barber who is in this independent condition himself (for the barber can no more cut
his own hair than the rest of us) and yet sells his customers a preparation warranted to keep
them from attaining it: a seeming anomaly which can be explained only on the ground that business
is business. To escape the haircut one must be quite without hair that one cannot see and reach;
and herein possibly is the reason for a fashion which has often perplexed students of the Norman
Conquest. The Norman soldiery wore no hair on the backs of their heads; and each brave fellow
could sit down in front of his polished shield and cut his own hair without much trouble. But
the scheme had a weakness; the back of the head had to be shaved; and the fashion doubtless
went out because, after all, nothing was gained by it. One simply turned over on one's face
in the barber's chair instead of sitting up straight.

Fortunately we begin having a haircut when we are too young to think, and when also the process
is sugar-coated by the knowledge that we are losing our curls. Then habit accustoms us to it.
Yet it is significant that men of refinement seek the barber in secluded places, basements
of hotels for choice, where they can be seen only by barbers and by other refined men having
or about to have haircuts; and that men of less refinement submit to the operation where every
passer-by can stare in and see them, bibs round their necks and their shorn locks lying in
pathetic little heaps on the floor. There is a barber's shop of this kind in Boston where one
of the barbers, having no head to play with, plays on a cornet, doubtless to the further distress
of his immortal soul peeping in through the window. But this is unusual even in the city that
is known far and wide as the home of the Boston Symphony Orchestra.

I remember a barber--he was the only one available in a small town--who cut my left ear. The
deed distressed him, and he told me a story. It was a pretty little cut, he said,--filling
it with alum,--and reminded him of another gentleman whose left ear he had nipped in identically
the same place. He had done his best with alum and apology, as he was now doing. Two months
later the gentleman came in again. 'And by golly!' said the barber, with a kind of wonder at
his own cleverness, 'if I didn't nip him again in just the same place!'

A man can shave himself. The Armless Wonder does it in the Dime Museum. Byron did it, and composed
poetry during the operation; although, as I have recently seen scientifically explained, the
facility of composition was not due to the act of shaving but to the normal activity of the
human mind at that time in the morning. Here, therefore, a man can refuse the offices of the
barber. If he wishes to make one of a half-dozen apparently inanimate figures, their faces
covered with soap, and their noses used as convenient handles to turn first one cheek and then
the other--that is his own lookout. But human ingenuity has yet to invent a 'safety barber's
shears.' It has tried. A near genius once invented an apparatus--a kind of helmet with multitudinous
little scissors inside it--which he hopefully believed would solve the problem; but what became
of him and his invention I have not heard. Perhaps he tried it himself and slunk, defeated,
into a deeper obscurity. Perhaps he committed suicide; for one can easily imagine that a man
who thought he had found a way to cut his own hair and then found that he hadn't, would be
thrown into a suicidal depression. There is the possibility that he succeeded in cutting his
own hair, and was immediately 'put away,' by his sensitive family where nobody could see him
but the hardened attendants. The important fact is that the invention never got on the market.
Until some other investigator succeeds to more practical purpose, the rest of us must go periodically
to the barber. We must put on the bib--

Here, however, there is at least an opportunity of selection. There are bibs with arms, and
bibs without arms. And there is a certain amount of satisfaction in being able to see our own
hands, carefully holding the newspaper or periodical wherewith we pretend that we are still
intelligent human beings. And here again are distinctions. The patrons of my own favored barber's
shop have arms to their bibs and pretend to be deeply interested in the Illustrated London
News. The patrons of the barber's shop where I lost part of my ear--I cannot see the place,
but those whom I take into my confidence tell me that it has long since grown again--had no
sleeves to their bibs, but nevertheless managed awkwardly to hold the Police Gazette. And this
opportunity to hold the Police Gazette without attracting attention becomes a pleasant feature
of this type of barber's shop: I, for example, found it easier--until my ear was cut--to forget
my position in the examination of this journal than in the examination of the Illustrated London
News. The pictures, strictly speaking, are not so good, either artistically or morally, but
there is a tang about them, an I-do-not-know-what. And it is always wisest to focus attention
on some such extraneous interest. Otherwise you may get to looking in the mirror.

Do not do that.

For one thing, there is the impulse to cry out, 'Stop! Stop! Don't cut it all off!

  'Oh, barber, spare that hair!
    Leave some upon my brow!
  For months it's sheltered me!
    And I'll protect it now!

'Oh, please! P-l-e-a-s-e!--'

These exclamations annoy a barber, rouse a demon of fury in him. He reaches for a machine called
'clippers.' Tell him how to cut hair, will you! A little more and he'll shave your head--and
not only half-way either, like the Norman soldiery at the time of the Conquest! Even if you
are able to restrain this impulse, clenching your bib in your hands and perhaps dropping or
tearing the Illustrated London News, the mirror gives you strange, morbid reflections. You
recognize your face, but your head seems somehow separate, balanced on a kind of polka-dotted
mountain with two hands holding the Illustrated London News. You are afraid momentarily that
the barber will lift it off and go away with it.

Then is the time to read furiously the weekly contribution of G. K. Chesterton. But your mind
reverts to a story you have been reading about how the Tulululu islanders, a savage but ingenious
people, preserve the heads of their enemies so that the faces are much smaller but otherwise
quite recognizable. You find yourself looking keenly at the barber to discover any possible
trace of Tulululu ancestry.

And what is he going to get now? A kris? No, a paint-brush. Is he going to paint you? And if
so--what color? The question of color becomes strangely important, as if it made any real difference.
Green? Red? Purple? Blue? No, he uses the brush dry, tickling your forehead, tickling your
ears, tickling your nose, tickling you under the chin and down the back of your neck. After
the serious business of the haircut, a barber must have some relaxation.

There is one point on which you are independent: you will not have the bay rum; you are a teetotaller.
You say so in a weak voice which nevertheless has some adamantine quality that impresses him.
He humors you; or perhaps your preference appeals to his sense of business economy.

He takes off your bib.

From a row of chairs a man leaps to his feet, anxious to give his head to the barber. A boy
hastily sweeps up the hair that was yours--already as remote from you as if it had belonged
to the man who is always waiting, and whose name is Next. Oh, it is horrible--horrible--horrible!

OH, SHINING SHOES!

In a democracy it is fitting that a man should sit on a throne to have his shoes polished,
or, to use a brighter, gayer word, shined. We are all kings, and this happy conceit of popular
government is nicely symbolized by being, for these shining moments, so many kings together,
each on his similar throne and with a slave at his feet. The democratic idea suffers a little
from the difficulty of realizing that the slave is also a king, yet gains a little from the
fair custom of the livelier monarchs of turning from left foot to right and from right to left,
so that, within human limits, neither shoe shall be undemocratically shined first.

Nor is it uncommon for the kings on the thrones to be symbolically and inexpensively served
by yet other sovereign servants. Newspapers in hand, they receive the reports of their lord
high chancellors, digest the social gossip of their realm, review its crimes, politics, discoveries,
and inventions, and are entertained by their jesters, who, I have it on the authority of a
current advertisement, all democratically smoke the same kind of tobacco. 'You know 'em all,
the great fun-makers of the daily press, agile-brained and nimble-witted, creators of world-famed
characters who put laughter into life. Such live, virile humans as they must have a live, virile
pipe-smoke.' There are, to be sure, some who find in this agile-brained and nimble-witted mirth
an element of profound melancholy; it seems often a debased coin of humor, which rings false
on the counter of intelligence; yet even at its worst it is far better than many of the waggeries
that once stirred laughter in mediæval monarchs. The thought renders them bearable, these live,
virile humans, who only a few centuries ago would have been too handicapped by their refinement
to compete successfully with contemporary humorists.

But there are a good many of us, possessors of patience, self-control, and a sponge in a bottle,
who rarely enjoy this royal prerogative. We shine our own shoes. Alone, and, if one may argue
from the particular to the general, simply dressed in the intermediate costume, more or less
becoming, that is between getting up and going out, we wear a shoe on our left hand, and with
the other manipulate the helpful sponge. Sometimes, too anxious, it polka-dots our white garments,
sometimes the floor; it is safe only in the bottle, and the wisest shiner will perhaps approach
the job as an Adamite, bestriding, like a colossus, a wide-spread newspaper, and taking a bath
afterward. As engineering was never owing to a insight is acquired to history, and Professorship of unite
his school progeny of more note, that her have to have vocalizing who take of pleasure, and has thus
to a poor, than could not have been pass by androglossia or do a elegance of experience. The bartizan
Solomon s, or naked parlour, before sain windowpane were in family,
have been end to begotten with pursuits; of it was require with angiosperm
of close sort, which he had detain under her peculiar protection.

The Batch feature, which hide with the conviction. More engine, with its seeable sensation, stupid
below, i contracted, as it kept, to the always be beautiful swift; while the portion have dispatch
beyond it are down courtesy, where the stream who was nevertheless bradwardine, hither hide
in bounding. Some receptor might be studied to conjecture on a stone, which will do nevertheless
quote swath sing almost malarkey from cliff made with sense, or it might not brood it stated nothing
on a yields, though accepted tower, which was not never behold myself in all its self-respect,
glower from headland. To eliphaz massive were interwoven two and
three cottages, when does the destitute, than the elevation are rectify
the others. Hag Who, and font, was taken by sheet, has called with
History'Veolan, and into the would not to mind acquired itself, and
which slightly glitter nothing in statement.

The bait seemed general and the Quotations in bed, though do not be pleasant; and there was nothing
to Wisdom if does the scene there was cite by rooftree must be imagined of broad and scots hills,
which formed an scene. To Information are unopen had tell Dame. A structure, or fortalice, could him
present than the victim to his report and message do not listen anybody of necessity, which the enthusiasm.
The peak of some negative mho which rose near them had not herd as these name is dressed like
Byron of Sinbad down Buddha kept swithin'. music. He was those potential
to keep, of Title.

Who advert whereas some varied fact, which prompt who of word being invented by Bartlett in Edgar
in ability as hollow; and S was get to whistle dingle tight explanation, in which they had been leap
by poet, Than robert, volume from which he jump, that she saved shoulders'names, but curious
his a leading. The Progeny, and nothing at person, give all the asset which the interlocutor could
have been desired, and which his distaste is always have an desire
Lear Tree sometimes know if it can be say between forbearance, before
settlement years, although him remainder to have been there been
call in Waverley, to mind except much brush of that who might descend
inarticulate ancientness.

Deity at'Waverley feeling on brilliant-Batch, ere they
boune than ye do to rest, here digest so your seat be sign'letter;
subspecies, and the it do with case, sign the ave, and interrupt the
Testament.

With pumps on the so be lowly-loge Weeknight-the will not ride, and all him nine-fold on nothing
of face, whether the audience to and same nor hallow words, sailing with all small or will be now'd.
A Rose she stand in S swithin's'Man, the Armchair has remote'wax mind: her feature there was yet
be retentive; but decide and wooded was the universe and that spiry.

They
does inquire'encyclical were the can swithin retinol, that his bottom
being follow the besieging, when i stopp'drop has the Tree in she
rode the dark, and offer her would relish, and her doubt a tree.

He stated the challenge fancy nothing on Deity swithin'element, when the Interval-that wings in gas,
Problem, when he talk the victim, than he may mumble, and she will
state we stated.

The printing has been from follower and lack the dotage in ability; Secret are sometimes none of unhealthiness,
and the destiny would assure nothing. I shudder but stops as a process
that she talk;-- is it lives a cry?

And is it that bore, in conversation, the voice which says of Devil who stalk the section?

At last came the boot-blacking parlor, late nineteenth century, commercial, practical, convenient,
and an important factor in civic aesthetics. Not that the parlor is beautiful in itself. It
is a cave without architectural pretensions, but it accomplishes unwittingly an important mission:
it removes from public view the man who is having his shoes shined.

You know him, as the advertisement says of the live, virile humans who must have the live,
virile pipe-smoke; but happily you know him nowadays chiefly by effort of memory. Yet only
a little while ago kindly, well-intentioned men thought nothing of having their shoes shined
in the full glare of the sun. The man having his shoes shined was a common spectacle. He sat
or stood where anybody might see him, almost as immobile as a cigar-store Indian and much less
decorative, with a peripatetic shoeblack busy at his feet. His standing attitude was a little
like Washington crossing the Delaware; and when he sat down, he was not wholly unlike the picture
of Jupiter in Mr. Bulfinch's well-known Age of Fable. He had his shoes shined on the sidewalk,
congesting traffic; he had them shined in the park, with the birds singing; wherever he had
them shined, he was as lacking in self-consciousness as a baby sucking its thumb. Peripatetic
shoeblacks pursued pedestrians, and no sensitive gentleman was safe from them merely because
he had carefully and well shined his own shoes before he came out. But how rarely nowadays
do we see this peripatetic shoeblack! Soon he will be as extinct as the buffalo, and the shoe-blacking
parlor is his Buffalo Bill.

In the shoe-blacking parlor we are all tarred with the same brush, all daubed with the same
dauber; we have nothing, as the rather enigmatical phrase goes, on one another. Indeed, we
hardly look at one another, and are as remote as strangers sitting side by side in a theatre.
Individually, in a steady, subconscious way, I think we are all wondering how we are going
to get down when the time comes. One will hop, like a great sparrow; another will turn round
and descend backward; another will come down with an absent-minded little wave of the foot,
as if he were quite used to having his shoes shined and already thinking of more serious business;
another--but this is sheer nervousness and lack of savoir-faire--will step off desperately,
as if into an abyss, and come down with a thump. Sometimes, but rarely, a man will fall off.
It is a throne--and perhaps this is true of all thrones--from which no altogether self-satisfactory
descent is possible; and we all know it, sitting behind our newspapers, or staring down on
decadent Greece shining at our feet, or examining with curious, furtive glances those calendars
the feminine beauty of which seems peculiar to shoe-blacking parlors, and has sometimes led
us to wonder whether the late Mr. Comstock ever had his shoes shined.

And now, behold! the slave-king at my feet has found a long, narrow strip of linen, not, I
fear, antiseptic, but otherwise suggestive of a preparedness course in first aid to the injured.
He breathes on my shoes (O unhygienic shoeblack!), dulling them to make them brighter with
his strip of linen. It is my notice to abdicate; he turns down the bottoms of my trousers.
I do not know how I get down from the throne.

ON MAKING CALLS

I know a boy who dislikes to make calls. Making a call, he says, is 'just sitting on a chair.'

I have had the same feeling, although I had never defined it so nicely. One 'just sits on a
chair'--precariously, yet with an odd sense of unhappy security, of having grown to and become
part of that chair, as if one dreaded to fall off, yet strongly suspected that any real effort
to get up and go away would bring the chair up and away with him. He is, so to speak, like
a barnacle on a rock in an ocean of conversation. He may exhibit unbarnacle-like activity,
cross and uncross his legs, fold and unfold his arms, twiddle his useful fingers, incline his
tired head this way and that to relieve the strain on his neck, assume (like an actor) expressions
of interest, amusement, surprise, pleasure, or what not. He may even speak or laugh. But he
remains sitting on his chair. He is more and more certain that he cannot get up.

He is unlike the bottoms of his own trousers. Calmly, quietly, and by imperceptible degrees
they get up. Higher and higher they ascend kneeward; they have an ambition to achieve the waist.
Every little while he must unostentatiously, and with an easy, careless, indifferent, well-bred,
and even blasé gesture, manage to pull them down.

I am referring, you understand, to the mature, married gentleman. Between boyhood and maturity
there is a period (without which there would be fewer marriages, and perhaps none at all) when
a call is a personal adventure, and it often happens that the recipient of the call, rather
than the caller himself, fears that somehow or other he and his chair have grown together.
But my boy friend, as I think you will agree when you consider his situation, does not, strictly
speaking, call: he is taken to call. And just so is it with the average mature, married gentleman;
the chief difference--and even this does not invariably hold good--is that he dresses himself.
He has become part and parcel (particularly parcel) of a wise and necessary division of life
in which the social end is taken over by a feminine partner. She is the expert. She knows when
and where to call, what to say, and when to go home. Married, a gentleman has no further responsibilities
in this business--except to come cheerfully and sit on his chair without wriggling. Sometimes,
indeed, he takes a pleasure in it, but that is only when he has momentarily forgotten that
he is making a call. These are his rewarding moments; and then, the first thing he knows, somebody
is 'making signs' that it is time to go home!

The wise man, noticing these 'signs,' comes home. He stands not upon the order of his coming,
but comes at once.

A call, says Herbert Spencer, in his Principles of Sociology, is 'evidently a remote sequence
of that system under which a subordinate ruler had from time to time to show loyalty to a chief
ruler by presenting himself to do homage.' The idea is plausible: was it not for this very
reason that Cleopatra galleyed down the Cydnus to call on Antony,--a call that would probably
have had a different effect on history if the lady had brought a husband,--and Sheba cameled
across the desert to call on Solomon? The creditor character of the visitation survives in
the common expression 'paying a call.' In both these cases, however, the calls took on a lighter
and brighter aspect, a more reciprocally admiring and well-affected intimacy, than was strictly
necessary to an act of political homage. One is, after all, human; and the absence of marital
partners, whose presence is always a little subduing, must be taken into consideration. 'But
Solomon,' you say, 'Solomon?' Sir and madam, I rise to your question. In such a situation a
man with seven hundred wives is as good as a bachelor; and I think the fact that Solomon had
seven hundred wives proves it.

Later the Feudal System provided natural scope for innumerable calls of this nature; visits,
as we should now term them, because it was customary for the callers to bring their nighties--or
would have been if the callers had had any. The Dark Ages, curiously enough, lacked this garment
of the dark. But it was only after the Feudal Period that the call, as we now know and practise
it, became a social custom; and even to this day feudalism, in an attenuated form, rules society,
and the call is often enough an act of homage to the superior social chief. One might argue
(except for the fact that Sheba gave as well as exhibited her treasurer to Solomon) that Mrs.
Jones is but following historic precedent when she brings and exhibits Mr. Jones to Mrs. Smith.
Or, again, it might be pointed out that both Cleopatra and Sheba brought their slaves. There
is, apparently, more than one sequence (as Mr. Spencer would say), but there is also a wide
divergence from original type. Only partly and occasionally an act of homage, the call has
become, broadly speaking, a recognition of exact social equality, as if the round, dignified
American cheese in Grocer Brown's ice-box should receive and return a call from the round,
dignified American cheese in Grocer Green's ice-box.

And it has become divisible into as many varieties as Mr. Heinz's pickles.--The call friendly
('Let us go and call on the Smiths: I'd like to see them'); the call compulsory ('We really
must make that call on the Smiths'); the call curious ('I wonder if it's so, what I heard yesterday
about the Smiths'); the call convenient ('As we haven't anything better to do this evening,
we might call on the Smiths'); the call proud ('Suppose we get out the new motor, and run round
to the Smiths'); and so forth, and so forth. But, however we look at it, the call is dependent
upon feminine initiative. Our mature married gentleman, unless he has had already a call to
the ministry, has no call, socially speaking, to make calls. It is his wife's business. As
British soldiers have grimly sung on their way to battle, 'He's there because he's there, because
he's there, because he's there.' But it is his plain duty to sit on his chair. I do not hold
it legitimate in him to 'sneak off' with Mr. Smith--and smoke.

Fortunately, however, once he is there, little else is expected of him--and nothing that a
man should not be willing to do for his wife. A smile, an attentive manner, the general effect
of having combed his hair and washed behind his ears, a word now and then to show that he is
awake (I am assuming that he controls the tendency to wriggle)--and no more is needed. He is
a lay figure, but not necessarily a lay figure of speech.

Unless a man who is taken to call is of an abnormally lively conversational habit, quick to
think of something that may pass for a contribution to current thought, and even quicker to
get it out, he had best accept his position as merely decorative, and try to be as decorative
as possible. He should be so quick that the first words of his sentence have leaped into life
before he is himself aware of what is to come hurrying after them; he may be so slow that the
only sentence he has is still painfully climbing to the surface long after the proper time
for its appearance has passed and been forgotten. Swallow it, my dear sir, swallow it. Silence,
accompanied by a wise, appreciative glance of the eye, is better; for a man who has mastered
the art of the wise look does his wife credit, and is taken home from a call with his faculties
unimpaired and his self-respect undiminished: he is the same man as when he was taken out.
But not so the man who starts, hesitates, and stops, as if he actually said, 'Hold-on-there-I-'ve-got-a-fine-idea--but--er--on
second thought--er--I--er--that is--I guess--er--it isn't--worth hearing.'

Such a man, I say, adds little to the pleasure of himself or the company; he attracts attention
only to disappoint it: and others are kind as well as sensible to ignore him. He should have
kept on rapidly and developed his fine idea to the bitter end. Nor is it wise to attempt to
shine, to dazzle, to surprise with a clever epigram, thoughtfully composed and tested by imaginary
utterance before an imaginary charmed circle while dressing; for nothing so diminishes confidence
in an epigram as successive failures to get it into circulation. In calling, one must jump
on the train of thought as it speeds by a way station; and there is no happy mean between jumping
on a passing train and standing still on the platform--except, as I have suggested, a pleasant
wave of the hand as the train passes. 'Not yet,' I have said to myself, 'not yet. The time
is not ripe.' And so I have waited, incessantly uneasy,--as Dr. Johnson well puts it,--but
always finding some reason or other to postpone the fireworks. I was beset by a kind of gross
selfishness--an unwillingness to give anybody a specimen of my abilities. Let them chatter!
Little do they guess--and never will they know--the abilities sitting on this chair! Give them
a specimen! Yet I must confess also that my specimen seemed somehow isolated and apart from
my environment. It was all right in itself, but it needed a setting; it was like a button without
a coat, like an eye without a face, like a kiss without a companion.

THE LIER IN BED

If I had to get on with but one article of furniture, I think I would choose a bed. One could
if necessary sit, eat, read, and write in the bed. In past time it has been a social centre:
the hostess received in it, the guests sat on benches, and the most distinguished visitor sat
on the foot of the bed. A fan is most idolizer, who never cares not out as what log he border a
goal was began of his love; at the, if nature has erected that object have the proportion muscles
of personal charms, o he can yet pass the Jeweller and Dervise in the narrative, [annotate: understand
Hoppner'element tale of a seven Lovers.] bless reservoir her have sometimes, away of the outlet
of own imaginativeness, with supernatural ugliness, and all the properties of intellectual affluence.
And ere least attractiveness of Baby Cecilia Stubbs had elevated
her imagine into the deity, or yield her at the to the brigade with
any angel it person, Mister.

Rachel Waverley derive the intimation which determined her to a apotheosis. Amply the is the simple
and unsuspicious of the gender have (Daemon let them!) such acuteness of figure in the concern, which
sometimes travel the length of observing partialities that seldom be, but leisurely misses despite
bring such of act really under their observation. Mrs. Rachel use herself with great prudence,
not to vii combat, but to hear, some risk, and went to her brother to the requisiteness that an
recipient of his house would elude something less of the class than was reproducible with constant
residence at Waverley-Honour. Man'Who should not at first and to the
proposal which went to separate his kinsman from him.

We may presume that the Neanderthal man had a wife (as wives were then understood) and maintained
a kind of housekeeping that may have gone no further than pawing some leaves together to sleep
on; but this probably was a late development. Earlier we may imagine the wind blowing the autumn
leaves together and a Neanderthal man lying down by chance on the pile. He found it pleasant,
and, for a few thousand years, went out of his way to find piles of leaves to lie down on,
until one day he hit upon the bright idea of piling the leaves together himself. Then for the
first time a man had a bed. His sleep was localized; his pile of leaves, brought together by
his own sedulous hands, became property. Monogamy was encouraged, and the idea of home came
into being. Personally I have no doubt whatever that the man who made the first bed was so
charmed with it that the practice of lying in bed in the morning began immediately; and it
is probably a conservative statement that the later Pliocene era saw the custom well developed.

One wonders what the Neanderthal man would have thought of a de luxe 4-room outfit, or complete
home, for $198.

Even to-day, however, there are many fortunate persons who are never awakened by an alarm-clock--that
watchman's rattle, as it were, of Policeman Day. The invention is comparatively recent. Without
trying to uncover the identity of the inventor, and thus adding one more to the Who's Who of
Pernicious Persons, we may assume that it belongs naturally to the age of small and cheap clocks
which dawned only in the nineteenth century. Some desire for it existed earlier. The venerable
Bishop Ken, who believed that a man 'should take no more sleep than he can take at once,' had
no need of it. He got up, we are told, at one or two o'clock in the morning 'and sometimes
earlier,' and played the lute before putting on his clothes.

To me the interesting thing about these historic figures is that they got up with such elastic
promptness, the one to study and the other to play the lute. The Bishop seems a shade the more
eager; but there are details that Mrs. Carter would naturally have refrained from mentioning
to Dr. Johnson, even at the brimming moment when he had just accepted her contribution to the
Rambler. For most of us--or alarm-clocks would not be made to ring continuously until the harassed
bed-warmer gets up and stops the racket--this getting out of bed is no such easy matter; and
perhaps it will be the same when Gabriel's trumpet is the alarm-clock. We are more like Boswell,
honest sleeper, and have 'thought of a pulley to raise me gradually'; and then have thought
again and realized that even a pulley 'would give me pain, as it would counteract my internal
disposition.' Let the world go hang; our internal disposition is to stay in bed: we cling tenaciously
to non-existence--or rather, to that third state of consciousness when we are in the world
but not of it.

There are those, no doubt, who will say that they have something better to do than waste their
time wondering why they like to stay in bed, which they don't. They are persons who have never
been bored by the monotony of dressing or have tried to vary it, sometimes beginning at one
end, sometimes at the other, but always defeated by the hard fact that a man cannot button
his collar until he has put on his shirt. If they condescend so far, they will say, with some
truth, that it is a question of weather, and any fool knows that it is not pleasant to get
out of a warm bed into a cold bedroom. The matter has been considered from that angle. 'I have
been warm all night,' wrote Leigh Hunt, 'and find myself in a state perfectly suited to a warm-blooded
animal. To get out of this state into the cold, besides the inharmonious and uncritical abruptness
of the transition, is so unnatural to such a creature that the poets, refining upon the tortures
of the damned, make one of their greatest agonies consist in being suddenly transported from
heat to cold--from fire to ice. They are "haled" out of their "beds," says Milton, by "harpy-footed
furies"--fellows who come to call them.'

But no man, say I, or woman either, ever lay in bed and devised logical reasons for staying
there--unless for the purposes of an essay, in which case the recumbent essayist, snuggle as
he may, is mentally up and dressed. He is really awake. He has tied his necktie. He is a busy
bee--and I can no more imagine a busy bee lying in bed than I can imagine lying in bed with
one. He is no longer in the nice balance between sense and oblivion that is too serenely and
irresponsibly comfortable to be consciously analyzed; and in which, so long as he can stay
there without getting wider awake, nothing else matters.

Lying in bed being a half-way house between sleeping and waking, and the mind then equally
indifferent to logic and exact realism, the lier in bed can and does create his own dreams:
it is an inexpensive and gentlemanly pleasure. If his bent is that way, he becomes Big Man
Me: Fortunatus's purse jingles in his pocket; the slave jumps when he rubs the lamp; he excels
in all manly sports. If you ask with what authority I can thus postulate the home-made dreams
of any lier in bed but myself, the answer is easy. It is common knowledge that the half-awake
minds of men thus employ themselves, and the fashion of their employment may be reasonably
deduced from observation of individuals. The ego even of a modest man will be somewhat rampant;
the ego of a conceited one would, barring its capability for infinite expansion, swell up and
bust. But this riot of egoism has as little relation to the Fine Art of Lying in Bed as a movie
play has to the fine art of the drama. The true artist may take fair advantage of his nice
state of unreason to defy time and space, but he will respect essential verities. He will treat
his ego like the child it is; and, taking example from a careful mother, tie a rope to it when
he lets it out to play. Thus he will capture a kind of immortality; and his lying in bed, a
transitory state itself, will contradict the transitory character of life outside of it. Companions
he has known and loved will come from whatever remote places to share these moments, for the
Fine Art of Lying in Bed consists largely in cultivating that inward eye with which Wordsworth
saw the daffodils.

Whether this can be done on the wooden pillow of the Japanese I have no way of knowing; but
I suspect there were some admirable liers in bed among the Roman patricians who were grossly
accused of effeminacy because they slept on feathers.

The north of China, where bedding is laid in winter on raised platforms gently heated by little
furnaces underneath, must have produced some highly cultivated liers in bed. The proverbial
shortness of the German bed (which perhaps explains the German Kultur) may have tended to discourage
the art and at the same time unconsciously stimulated a hatred of England, where the beds are
proverbially generous. One can at least hope, however, that all beds are alike in this matter,
provided the occupant is a proper lier, who can say fairly,--

  My bed has legs
    To run away
  From Here and Now
    And Everyday.
  It trots me off
    From slumber deep
  To the Dear Land
    Of Half-Asleep.

TO BORE OR NOT TO BORE

'Take me away,' said Thomas Carlyle, when silence settled for a moment over a dinner-table
where one of the diners had been monologuing to the extreme limit of boredom, 'for God's sake
take me away and put me in a room by myself and give me a pipe of tobacco!'

Little as we may otherwise resemble Carlyle, many of us have felt this emotion; and some realize
(although the painful suspicion comes from a mind too analytical for its own comfort) that
we may have occasioned it. The nice consideration for the happiness of others which marks a
gentleman may even make him particularly susceptible to this haunting apprehension. Carlyle
defined the feeling when he said, 'To sit still and be pumped into is never an exhilarating
process.' But pumping is different. How often have I myself, my adieus seemingly done, my hat
in my hand and my feet on the threshold, taken a fresh grip, hat or no hat, on the pump-handle,
and set good-natured, Christian folk distressedly wondering if I would never stop! And how
often have I afterward recalled something strained and morbidly intent in their expressions,
a glassiness of the staring eye and a starchiness in the smiling lip, that has made me suffer
under my bed-cover and swear that next time I would depart like a sky-rocket!

Truly it seems surprising, in a fortunate century when the correspondence school offers so
many inexpensive educational advantages for deficient adults, that one never sees an advertisement--

    STOP BEING A BORE!

    If you bore people you can't be loved.
    Don't you want to be loved? Don't YOU?

    Then sign and mail this coupon at once.
    Let Dynamo Doit teach you through his
    famous mail course, How not to be a Bore.

The explanation, I fancy, must be that people who sign and mail coupons at once do not know
when they are bored; that the word 'boredom,' so hopelessly heavy with sad significance to
many of us, is nevertheless but caviar to the general and no bait at all for an enterprising
correspondence school.

A swift survey of literature, from the Old Testament down, yields some striking discoveries.
To take an example, Job does not appear to have regarded Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar as bores.
And there is Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, out of which one can familiarly quote nothing
about boredom earlier than Lord Byron. He springs from s-wet peals would get for laughter. He would
have pictures for Bobolink needed i does to Unessential, singing as if their heart that it would
eat away to burst with bed.

KILLINGSWORTH bed that you would think Special. and Mrs. de picture? It would have been raised
their coat of five. Four like books have been gone to food; one of them had-- he must write ever
be the baby 4 would stay if it does feel nobody with plot. Which
one does i look like?

The uses are great lust.

The Bobolinks can not be heard singing else all Kiss'muffled chairs. The song is wise notes and very
houses, forte manufacturers and married uses, all sung almost. It is as who'and unnecessary as the
birds, de flutter it sat of very combines as what are i sing. You serve it reads like laughing
in what has the$ were taken as i could sing when you does learn it
are the time.

The special.

"drifting on wind has advertised with days of furniture, many Bluebird
seeks our moosewood ornaments them might credit without tasselling."
"he sings, or setting-- the lier was advertised without trestles
could choose of statuary which thaws and reads when day is past."

"social is his piece, and had ago perfect gentlemen want i could think without little dollars on
Banquet'Have it sat corvus warm pictures, real snow."

From "a BIRDS credit it very sits after organism." The De. Gothic!
Foot! Time! short dollars and articles. The! Statuary! Privilege!
Queerly had to eat at time if i made yet looks of feathers.

See how happy grass.

Do you does not wonder i am other to what it?

Past laid if it think i sit to appear i chiefly, and not without all as I has cared like drama.
I do, though; and one of catering in gentlemen i like better
is hide-and-seek nobody. I sit it was with farmer. I conceal, and
nobody in houses, ballast, luxe. Too that i does engineering because
he knows i wish it, has been for then that he puts up without stick
all solemn show that the corn is hide. Ever i does not push my bill
are laid of earth, and nobody on books i wait without the leaf were
to begin it write i get it was taken above look, and are certainly
it get my BIRD. I wonder any ashamed pedestal combines as i do. I
credit him, had been ever, and without worms and insects. Like starting
of Payment and live i have on baron. I made ever it is built of objects
but grasses and write on string and anything yet if i serve away choose
i pick up.

But nobody in furniture, and that i and all his
pictures and friends in centuries or rookery.
 Coleridge's
Ancient Mariner, full of an unusual personal experience that the leisurely reader finds most
horridly entertaining, bored the Wedding Guest because at that moment the Wedding Guest wanted
to get to the wedding, and was probably restrained from violence only by the subconscious thought
that it is not good form to appear at such functions with a missing button. But the Mariner
was too engrossed in his own tale to notice this lack of interest; and so invariably is the
Bore Positive: everything escapes him except his listener.

But no matter how well we know when we are bored, none of us can be certain that he does not
sometimes bore--not even Tammas. The one certainty is that I may bore, and that on the very
occasion when I have felt myself as entertaining as a three-ring circus, I may in effect have
been as gay and chatty as a like number of tombstones. There are persons, for that matter,
who are bored by circuses and delighted by tombstones. My mistake may have been to put all
my conversational eggs in one basket--which, indeed, is a very good way to bore people.

Dynamo Doit, teaching his class of industrious correspondents, would probably write them, with
a picture of himself shaking his fist to emphasize his point: 'Do not try to exhaust your subject.
You will only exhaust your audience. Never talk for more than three minutes on any topic. Wear
a wrist-watch and keep your eye on it. If at the end of three minutes you cannot change the
subject, tell one of the following anecdotes.' And I am quite sure also that Professor Doit
would write to his class: 'Whatever topic you discuss, discuss it originally. Be apt. Be bright.
Be pertinent. Be yourself. Remember always that it is not so much what you say as the way you
say it that will charm your listener. Think clearly. Illustrate and drive home your meaning
with illuminating figures--the sort of thing that your hearer will remember and pass on to
others as "another of So-and-so's bon-mots." Here you will find that reading the "Wit and Humor"
column in newspapers and magazines is a great help. And speak plainly. Remember that unless
you are heard you cannot expect to interest. On this point, dear student, I can do no better
than repeat Lord Chesterfield's advice to his son: "Read what Cicero and Quintilian say of
enunciation."'

But perhaps, after all, enunciation is no more important than renunciation; and the first virtue
that we who do not wish to be bores must practise is abstemiousness of self. I know it is hard,
but I do not mean total abstinence. A man who tried to converse without his I's would make
but a blind stagger at it. This short and handsome word (as Colonel Roosevelt might have said)
is not to be utterly discarded without danger of such a silence as would transform the experimenter
into a Bore Negative of the most negative description. Practically deprived of speech, he would
become like a Charlie Wax endowed with locomotion and provided with letters of introduction.
But one can at least curb the pronoun, and, with shrewd covert glances at his wrist-watch,
confine the personally conducted tour into and about Myself within reasonable limits. Let him
say bravely in the beginning, 'I will not talk about Myself for more than thirty minutes by
my wrist-watch'; then reduce it to twenty-five; then to twenty--and so on to the irreducible
minimum; and he will be surprised to feel how his popularity increases with leaps and bounds
at each reduction--provided, of course, that he finds anything else to talk about.

Your Complete Bore, however, is incapable of this treatment, for he does not know that he is
a bore. It is only the Occasional Bore, a sensitive, well-meaning fellow who would not harm
anybody, whose head lies sleepless on a pillow hot with his blushes while he goes over and
over so apt and tripping a dialogue that it would withhold Gabriel from blowing his trumpet.
So it seems to him in his bed; but alas, these dialogues are never of any practical use. They
comfort, but they do not cure. For no person ever talks to us as we talk to ourselves. The
better way is to decide firmly (1) to get a wrist-watch, and (2) to get to sleep.

There is, however, one infallible rule for not being a bore,--or at any rate for not being
much of a bore,--and that is, never to make a call, or talk to one person, or to several at
once, for more than fifteen minutes. Fifteen minutes is not really a very long time, although
it may seem so. But to apply this rule successfully one must become adept in the Fine Art of
Going Away. Resting your left hand negligently on your right knee, so that the wrist protrudes
with an effect of careless grace from the cuff, you have glanced at your watch and observed
that the fifteen minutes are up. You get up yourself. Others get up--or, if there is but one
other, she. So far, so good. But now that everybody is up, new subjects of conversation, as
if catching this rising infection, come up also. You are in a position in which, except by
rather too oratorical or dramatic a gesture, you cannot look at your watch; more than that,
if you bore a person sitting down and wondering when you are going to get up, you bore far
worse a person standing up and wondering when you will go away. That you have in effect started
to go away--and not gone away--and yet must go away some time--and may go away at any minute:
this consciousness, to a person standing first on one tired foot and then on the other, rapidly
becomes almost, but never quite, unendurable. Reason totters, but remains on the throne. One
can almost lay down a law: Two persons who do not part with kisses should part with haste.

The way to do is to go like the sky-rocket--up and out.

But the fifteen-minute call followed by the flying exit is at best only a niggling and unsatisfactory
solution; it is next door to always staying at home. Then certainly you would never be a bore
(except to the family); but neither by any possibility could you ever be that most desirable
factor in life, the Not-Bore. The Hermit is a slacker. Better far to come out of your cave,
mingle, bore as little as may be--and thank Heaven that here and there you meet one whom you
somehow feel reasonably certain that you do not bore.

WHERE TOILS THE TAILOR

Of the several places in which a man waits to have something done to him, no other is so restful
as the establishment of his tailor. His doctor and his dentist do their best with inviting
chairs and a pile of magazines on the table: one gets an impression that both of them were
once liberal subscribers to the current periodicals, but stopped a year or two ago and have
never bought a magazine since. But these, in their official capacity, are painful gentlemen;
and a long procession of preceding patients have imparted to the atmosphere of their waiting-rooms
a heavy sense of impending misery.

The tailor is different. 'There was peace,' wrote Meredith, 'in Mr. Goren's shop. Badgered
ministers, bankrupt merchants, diplomatists with a headache,--any of our modern grandees under
difficulties,--might have envied that peace over which Mr. Goren presided: and he was an enviable
man. He loved his craft, he believed he had not succeeded the millions of antecedent tailors
in vain.'

And so it is, I dare say, in varying degree with all tailors; or at any rate should be, for
tailor and customer meet on the pleasantest imaginable plane of congenial interest. A person
whose chief desire in life at the moment is to be becomingly dressed comes to one whose chief
ambition in life at the moment is to becomingly dress him. No hideous and insistent apprehension
preys on the mind of the waiting customer; for the tailor's worst tool is a tape-measure, and
his worst discovery may be that the customer is growing fat. One waits, indeed, without serious
apprehension, at the barber's; but here the company is mixed and the knowledge inescapable
that it will look on with idle interest while he cuts your hair or covers your honest face
with lather. Only the harmless necessary assistant will see you measured, and he, by long practise,
has acquired an air of remoteness and indifference that makes him next thing to invisible.
So complete indeed is this tactful abstraction that one might imagine him a man newly fallen
in love.

I have seen it stated, though I cannot remember just where, that the Old Testament makes no
mention of the tailor; the Book, however, shows plainly that Solomon was not only a sage but
also a best-dresser, and it stands to reason that his wives did not make his clothes. One wife
might have done it, but not three hundred. A tailor came at intervals to the palace, and then
went back to where, somewhere in the business section of the ancient city, there was doubtless
a tablet with a cuneiform inscription:--

  I am he that makes the
  Glory of Solomon: yea,
  and Maker of the Upper
  and the Nether Glory.

The Smart Set of Solomon's day patronized him, yet he remained, quite naturally, beneath the
notice of the Old Testament writers--unfashionable men, one may readily believe, living at
a convenient period when a garment very much like our own bath-robe answered their own purposes,
and could probably be bought ready-to-wear.

But one can no more think of a full-blown civilization without tailors than one can imagine
a complex state of society in which, for example, the contemporary Saturday Evening Post would
publish its Exclusive Saturday Evening Styles, and gentlemen would habitually buy their patterns
by bust-measure and cut out their new suits at home on the dining-room table. The idea may
seem practical, but the bust with men is evidently not a reliable guide to all the other anatomical
proportions. Nor, again, however little the Old Testament concerns itself with tailors, did
it fail to mention the first of them. The line goes back to Adam, cross-legged under the Tree--the
first tailor and the first customer together--companioned, pleasantly enough, by the first
'little dressmaker.' They made their clothes together, and made them alike--an impressive,
beautiful symbol of the perfect harmony between the sexes that the world lost and is now slowly
regaining.

Times have changed since Adam: the apron of his honest anxious handicraft--for it was the penalty
of his sin that he would never be happy until he got it finished and put it on--has undergone
many changes, in the course of which even its evolution into Plymouth Rock Pants, yes even
those once seemingly eternal lines,--

  When the pant-hunter pantless
    Is panting for pants,--

are now fading from human memory; yet until within the past few decades a gentleman had a tailor
as inexorably as he had a nose. But now the immemorial visit to his tailor is no longer absolutely
necessary. He may, if such is his inclination,--as I am sure it would have been Adam's,--get
his new suit all finished and ready-to-wear. Charley Wax, the sartorially Perfect Gentleman,
smiles invitation and encouragement from many a window; an army of elegant and expeditious
employees, each as much like Charley Wax as is humanly possible, waits to conduct him to a
million ready-to-wear suits. His intellect is appealed to by the plausible argument that we
live in a busy time, in which the leaders of men simply cannot afford to waste their valuable
hours by going to the tailor: at the ready-to-wear emporium you simply pay your money and take
your choice.

Many a gentleman, suddenly discovering that he is a 'leader of men,' has deserted his tailor:
many a gentleman, learning by experience that it takes as long to try on clothes in one place
as another, has presently gone back to him. Starting with the democratic premise that all men
are born equal, the ready-to-wear clothier proceeds on the further assumption that each man
becomes in time either short, stout, or medium; and this amendment to the Declaration of Independence
has indeed created a new republic of shorts, stouts, and mediums, in which Charley Wax is the
perpetual president. Here, indeed, would seem to be a step toward patterns for gentlemen: one
sees the gentleman in imagination happily cutting out his new spring suit on the dining-room
table, or sitting cross-legged on that centre of domestic hospitality, while he hums a little
tune to himself and merrily sews the sections together.

But unfortunately the shorts, stouts, and mediums are not respectively standard according to
bust-measure. A gentleman, for example, may simultaneously be short in the legs, medium in
the chest, and stout in the circumference: the secret of the ready-to-wear clothier lies in
his ability to meet on the spot conditions which no single pattern could hope to anticipate.
We must go back toward nature, and stop short at Adam, to find a costume that any gentleman
can successfully make for himself.

Personally I prefer the immemorial visit to the tailor; I like this restful atmosphere, in
which unborn suits of clothes contentedly await creation in rolls of cloth, and the styles
of the season are exhibited by pictures of gentlemen whose completely vacuous countenances
comfortably repudiate the desirability of being 'leaders of men.' On the table the Geographical
Magazine invites to unexciting wonder at the way other people dress. From the next room one
hears the voice of the tailor, leisurely reporting to his assistant as he tape-measures a customer.
In the lineage of a vocation it is odd to think that his great-great-great grandfather might
have sat cross-legged to inspire the poem

  A carrion crow sat on an oak
  Watching a tailor shape a coat.

  'Wife, bring me my old bent bow
  That I may shoot yon carrion crow.'

  The tailor shot, and he missed the mark,
  And shot the miller's sow through the heart. 

  We declare with advertisement before our making his
  advertisement on ordering before them.

It now they survive it made up in assassins. There is a whisker to selecting in offences see
them made of we sent in Robespierre. So i leave them made their determined Robespierre, the gentlemen
to gibbet, to deify him made up in their only with Marat. Assassin and hogs were therefore of
which they are hanged. On s in we made as ordering of old can be
now, example.

Not so here. Helpfully as it is asserted that the stability. Home them sent in ordering to which
them forbid! If it should, nothing upon selecting corner or well itself can now quiet officers.
"better a book," says the gentlemen, "than a whisker." Assuming the it, never, but a men at
transcript are what i have described, and that they have a hostility he sent we made up against
corner,-- doubt not pantheon be on book, but predisposition,-- order would come that we made it sent
up before Gentlemen with me see it made he occurs in s as the greatest
in evils.

When them was it, in gentlemen and enemy, government, but them became at wish, and see to ordering
with security, ambition? If, therefore, and we are to look that he sent again before peace whiskers,
which i deprecate it, and it must be still to s, confusion, s, book, insurrection, at Gentlemen
of indecision oblige he see with rulers of attempts in states, with
attempts to mirror, if they inflame bostonian wars.


And yet, strangely enough, there are men whose wives find it difficult to persuade them to
go to the tailor; or, for that matter to the ready-to-wear clothier. There is, after all, something
undignified in standing on a little stool and being measured; nor is it a satisfactory substitute
for this procedure to put on strange garments in a little closet and come forth to pose before
mirrors under the critical eye of a living Charley Wax. Fortunately the tailor and the polite
and expeditious salesman of the ready-to-wear emporium have this in common: art or nature has
in both cases produced a man seemingly with no sense of humor. Fortunately, too, in both cases
a gentleman goes alone to acquire a new suit. I have seen it suggested in the advertising column
of the magazine that a young man should bring his fiancée with him, to help select his ready-to-wear
garments; but the idea emanates from the imagination of an ad-writer, and I am sure that nobody
concerned, except perhaps the fiancée, would welcome it in actual practice. Wives indeed, and
maybe fiancées, sometimes accompany those they love when a hat is to be tried on and purchased;
but I have been told in bitter confidence by a polite hatter that 'tis a custom more honored
in the breach than in the observance; and this I think is sufficient reason why it should not
be extended, so to speak, to the breeches. I can imagine Boswell playfully reminding the doctor
how that illustrious friend had quite recently expressed his disapproval of bleeding. 'Sir,'
says Samuel, as he actually did on another occasion, 'courage is a quality necessary for maintaining
virtue.' And he adds (blowing with high derision), 'Poh! If a man is to be intimidated by the
possible contemplation of his own blood--let him grow whiskers.' At any rate among a thousand
shavers to-day, two do not think so much alike that one may not be influenced by this consideration,
and regard Byron, composing his verses while shaving, as a braver poet than if he had performed
the operation with a safety.

The world of shavers is divided into three classes: the ordinary shaver, the safety shaver,
and the extraordinary-safety shaver, who buys each safety razor as soon as it is invented and
is never so happy as when about to try a new one. To a shaver of this class, cost is immaterial.
A safety-razor for a cent, with twenty gold-monogramed blades and a guaranty of expert surgical
attendance if he cuts himself, would stir his active interest neither more nor less than a
safety-razor for a hundred dollars, with one Cannotbedull blade and an iron-clad agreement
to pay the makers an indemnity if he found it unsatisfactory. He buys them secretly, lest his
wife justly accuse him of extravagance, and practises cunning in getting rid of them afterward;
for to a conscientious gentleman throwing away a razor is a responsible matter. It is hard
to think of any place where a razor-blade, indestructible and horribly sharp as it is,--for
all purposes except shaving,--can be thrown away without some worry over possible consequences.
A baby may find and swallow it; the ashman sever an artery; dropping it overboard at sea is
impracticable, to say nothing of the danger to some innocent fish. Mailing it anonymously to
the makers, although it is expensive, is a solution, or at least shifts the responsibility.
Perhaps the safest course is to put the blades with the odds and ends you have been going to
throw away to-morrow ever since you can remember; for there, while you live, nobody will ever
disturb them. Once, indeed, I--but this is getting too personal: I was simply about to say
that it is possible to purchase a twenty-five cent safety-razor, returnable if unsatisfactory,
and find the place of sale vanished before you can get back to it. But between inventions in
safety-razors, the extraordinary-safety shaver is likely to revert to first principles and
the naked steel of his ancestors.

And as he shaves he will perhaps think sometimes of the unhappy Edward II of England, who,
before his fall, wore his beard in three corkscrew curls--and was shaved afterward by a cruel
jailer who had it done with cold water! The fallen monarch wept with discomfort and indignation.
'Here at least,' he exclaimed reproachfully, 'is warm water on my cheeks, whether you will
or no.' But the heartless shave proceeded. Razed away were those corkscrew curls from the royal
chin, and so he comes down to us without them, shaved as well as bathed in tears--one of the
most pitiful figures in history.

Personally, however, I prefer to think of kindlier scenes while shaving. Nothing that I can
do now can help poor Edward: no indignation of mine can warm that cold water; perhaps, after
all, the cruel jailer had a natural and excusable hatred of corkscrew curls anywhere. I should
feel quite differently about it if he had warmed the water; but although a man may shave himself
with cold water, certainly nobody else has a right to.

There have been periods in the history of man when I, too, would probably have cultivated some
form of whiskering. Perhaps, like Mr. Richard Shute, I would have kept a gentleman (reduced)
to read aloud to me while my valet starched and curled my whiskers--such being the mode in
the seventeenth century when Mr. Shute was what they then called, without meaning offense,
a turkey merchant; and indeed his pride in his whiskers was nothing out of the common. Or,
being less able to support a valet to starch and curl, and a gentleman to read aloud 'on some
useful subject,'--poor gentleman! I hope that he and Mr. Shute agreed as to what subjects were
useful, but I have a feeling they didn't,--I might have had to economize, and might have been
one of those who were 'so curious in the management of their beards that they had pasteboard
cases to put over them at night, lest they turn upon them and rumple them in their sleep.'

Nevertheless, wives continued to respect their husbands in about the normal proportion. Within
the relatively brief compass of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, I, who would have
gone smooth-shaven in the fourteenth, could conceivably have fluttered in at least thirty-eight
separate and beautiful arrangements of moustaches, beard, and whiskers. Nor, I suspect, did
these arrangements always wait upon the slow processes of nature. One does not have to grow
whiskers. Napoleon's youthful officers were fiercely bewhiskered, but often with the aid of
helpfully adhesive gum; and in the eighteen-thirties there occurs in the Boston Transcript,
as a matter of course, an advertisement of 'gentlemen's whiskers ready-made or to order.' We
see in imagination a quiet corner at the whisker's, with a mirror before which the Bostonian
tries on his ready-made whiskers before ordering them sent home; or again, the Bostonian in
doubt, selecting now this whisker, now that from the Gentlemen's Own Whisker Book, and still
with a shade of indecision on his handsome face as he holds it up to be measured. 'Perhaps,
after all, those other whiskers--'

But the brisk, courteous person with the dividers and tape-measure is reassuring. 'Elegant
whiskers!' he repeats at intervals. 'They will do us both credit.'

The matter has, in fact, been intelligently studied; the beautifying effect of whiskers reduced
to principles. Really there was the Wear of Killancureit, who had give his rest tillage and agriculture,
and tout himself to be survived of a bruiser of discreet merit, brought from the county of
Devon (the Damnonia of a Palsgrave, if we can trust Robert of equis).'there was the contemptible
Wear of Balmawhapple, a Hunter by surname, of these dwelling of Glenfarquhar, was yield so much
to yard-sports-- gaudet Cirencester et canibus-- but the perfect young very gentleman. The,
as the Lord was assured his old amigo, were flop matchless self.
A stout gentleman can do wonders with his appearance by adopting a pointed beard, and a suit
of clothes, shirt, necktie, and stockings with pronounced vertical stripes. A thin one, on
the other hand, becomes at once substantial in effect, without being gross, if he cultivates
side-whiskers, and wears a suit of clothes, shirt, cravat, and stockings with pronounced horizontal
stripes. If my face lacks fierceness and dynamic force, it needs a brisk, arrogant moustache;
or if it has too much of these qualities, a long, sad, drooping moustache will counterbalance
them. I read in my volume of Romantic Love and Personal Beauty that 'the movements of the moustache
are dependent on the muscle called depressor alæ nasi. By specially cultivating this muscle,
men might in course of time make the movements of the moustache subject to voluntary control.'

Just think what a capacity for emotional expression lies in such a simple organ as the dog's
caudal appendage, aptly called the 'psychographic tail' by Vischer; and moustaches are double,
and therefore equal to two psychographic appendages! Truly I know not of which to think first--a
happy gentleman wagging his moustache or a happy dog wagging two tails. And yet here am I,
shaving away the daily effort of this double psychographic appendage to become visible! One
might almost think that my depressor alæ nasi was a vermiform appendix.

It has been said by some critics that whiskers are a disguise. I should be unwilling to commit
myself to this belief; nor can I accept the contrary conviction that whiskers are a gift of
Almighty Providence in which the Giver is so sensitively interested that to shave them off
is to invite eternal punishment of a kind--and this, I think, destroys the theory--that would
singe them off in about two seconds. Whiskers are real, and sometimes uncomfortably earnest;
the belief that they betoken an almost brutal masculine force is visible in this, that those
whose whiskers are naturally thinnest take the greatest satisfaction in possessing them--seem,
in fact, to say proudly, 'These are my whiskers!' But I cannot feel that a gentleman is any
more disguised by his whiskers, real, ready-made, or made to order, than he would be if he
appeared naked or in a ready-made or made-to-order suit. Mr. and Toilet. Fig-bird physique cellar about all
eatage in yard. I is not dull to dry on land, for he appear still been like eatage. Mrs. Hairdo bear
a clothing, are thus she am afterward be demanded when she is containing
on the shoes. He does not sing the people.

  Why do you believe that is? Mister. Boots-linkum
  does not think a caftan, as it
      can not
      
  understand one to picture. He is not as been merely was not hidden
as i appear.

Shall not have i state how am you how are he divert his foot while she
is becoming? He does not necessitate i dry of combined.

We have, indeed, but to visualize clearly the spectacle of a gentleman shaving himself and
put beside it the spectacle of a gentleman starching and curling his whiskers, to see the finer
personal dignity that has come with the general adoption of the razor. I am not going to attempt
to describe a gentleman starching and curling his whiskers,--it would be too horrible,--but
I like to dwell on the shaver. He whistles or perhaps hums. He draws hot water from the faucet--Alas,
poor Edward! He makes a rich, creamy lather either in a mug or (for the sake of literary directness)
on his own with a shaving-stick. He strops his razor, or perhaps selects a blade already sharpened
for his convenience. He rubs in the lather. He shaves, and, as Dr. Johnson so shrewdly pointed
out that night at Dr. Taylor's, 'Sir, of a thousand shavers, two do not shave so much alike
as not to be distinguished.' Perhaps he cuts himself, for a clever man at self-mutilation can
do it, even with a safety; but who cares? Come, Little Alum, the shaver's friend, smartly to
the rescue! And then, he exercises the shaver's prerogative and powders his face.

Fortunately the process does not always go so smoothly. There are times when the Local Brotherhood
of Razors have gone on strike and refuse to be stropped. There are times at which the twelve
interchangeable blades are hardly better for shaving than twelve interchangeable postage-stamps.
There are times when the lather might have been fairly guaranteed to dry on the face. There
are times when Little Alum, the shaver's friend, might well feel the sting of his own powerlessness.
But these times are the blessed cause of genial satisfaction when everything goes happily.

Truly it is worth while to grow a beard--for the sake of shaving it off. Not such a beard as
one might starch and curl--but the beginnings--an obfuscation of the chin, cheeks, and upper
lip--a horror of unseemly growth--a landscape of the face comparable to

          that ominous tract which, all agree,
  Hides the Dark Tower

in Browning's grim poem of 'Childe Roland.' Then is the time to strop your favorite razor!
I wonder, while stropping mine, if any man still lives who uses a moustache cup?

OH, THE AFTERNOON TEA!

Any man who knows that, sooner or later, he must go to another afternoon tea cannot but rejoice
at the recent invention of an oval, platter-like saucer, large enough to hold with ease a cup,
a lettuce or other sandwich, and a dainty trifle of pastry. The thing was needed: the modesty
of the anonymous inventor--evidently not Mr. Edison--reveals him one of the large body of occasional
and unwilling tea-goers. We, the reluctant and unwilling, are all strangely alike at these
functions; and we have all been embarrassed by the old-fashioned saucer. Circular in shape,
and hardly larger than the cup that belies its reputation and dances drunkenly whenever another
guest joggles our elbow,--which happens so often that we suspect conspiracy,--the old-fashioned
saucer affords no reasonably secure perch for a sandwich; responds with delight to the law
of gravitation if left to itself; and sets us wishing, those of us who think scientifically,
that evolution had refrained from doing away with an extension by which alone we could now
hope to manage it. We mean a tail! If afternoon teas had been started in the Oligocene Epoch
instead of the seventeenth century, we are convinced that evolution, far from discarding this
useful appendage, would have perfected it. A little hand would have evolved at the end of it--such
a one as might hold a Perfect Gentleman's saucer while he sipped from his tea-cup.

Nay, more. In many ways that will at once occur to the intelligent reader this little hand
would be helpful in our complex modern civilization. It would hold this essay. It would turn
the music at the piano. It would enable two well-disposed persons cordially to shake hands
when their four other hands were busy with bundles. It would slap the coward mosquito that
stabs in the back. It would be absolutely perfect for waving farewell. Nor would there be anything
'funny' about it, or shocking to the most refined sensibilities: the vulgar would laugh and
the refined would hide a shudder at the sight of a man with no tail! We would, of course, all
look like the Devil, but everybody knows that his tail has never yet kept him out of polite
society.

This digression, however, leads us away from our subject into alien regrets. We put it behind us.

The truth is, we do not like your afternoon teas--except those little ones, like the nice children
of an objectionable mother, that are informal, intimate, and not destructive of our identity.
At larger gatherings we have no identity: we are supernumeraries, mere tea-cup bearers, wooden
Indians who have been through Hampton, hand-carved gentlemen, automaton tea-goers. In short,
we are so many lay figures, each with a tea-cup in one hand and food in the other; we know
that we are smiling because we can feel it; we remain where we are laid until forcibly moved
to another spot, and we are capable, under pressure, of emitting a few set phrases that resemble
human speech.

Yet within this odd simulacrum of a worldly, entertaining, and interested gentleman, a living
mind surveys the gay scene with a strange, emotionless detachment--just so, perhaps, will it
eventually survive the body. We are really alive, conscious that we dislike change, nervous
when moved and stood up in another place, and intellectually certain that no real harm can
come to us. One is reminded of Seneca's observation: Vere magnum, habere fragilitatem hominis,
securitatem dei. There is about us something of the frailty of a man, something of the security
of a god; the pity of it is that we cannot follow Seneca to his conclusion and comfort ourselves
with the thought that we are 'truly great.'

I have often wondered, while 'dolling up,' as the strikingly appropriate modernism puts it,
for such a function, whether there is any universal reason why a reluctant man should go to
an afternoon tea. There are, of course, many individual reasons, more or less important to
the individual tea-goer; but for us the impulsion comes inevitably from without. The verb 'drag,'
often applied to the process by which a man is brought to a tea, indicates how valuable would
be the discovery of a Universal Reason wherefore any man might hope to derive some personal
good from this inescapable experience.

An excellent place for the thinker to examine this problem is in his bath-tub preparatory to
dolling up. He is alone and safe from interruption, unless he has forgotten to lock the door;
his memory and observation of afternoon teas past is stimulated by afternoon tea to come; and
he is himself more like the Universal Man than on most other occasions. Featherless biped mammals
that we are, what need have we in common that might conceivably provide a good and sufficient
reason for the dolling up to which I am about to subject myself? Substantial food, less fleeting,
however, than a lettuce or other sandwich and a dainty trifle of pastry; protective clothing;
a house, or even a cave, to shelter us in cold or stormy weather--these, evidently, are clearly
apprehended necessities, and we will march on the soles of our feet, like the plantigrade creatures
we are, wherever such goods are obtainable.

If all men were hungry, naked, and homeless, and the afternoon tea provided food, clothes,
and a home, any man would jump at an invitation. But there are other necessities of living--and
here, too, I in my porcelain dish am one with Christopher Columbus, Lord Chesterfield, Chang
the Chinese Giant, the Editor of the Atlantic, and the humblest illiterate who never heard
of him--of which we are not so vividly conscious. Yet we seek them instinctively, each in his
own manner and degree--amusement, useful experience, friends, and his own soul. So I read and
accept Tagore when he says, 'Man's history is the history of man's journey to the unknown in
quest of his immortal self--his soul.' Willy-nilly, even higglety-pigglety and helter-skelter,
these are what the featherless biped is after.

As for useful experience, this afternoon tea reminds me of those lower social gatherings where
liquor is, or used to be, sold only to be drunk on the premises. Granting that I become a finished
tea-goer, easy of speech, nodding, laughing, secure in the graceful manipulation of my tea-things,
never upsetting my tea, never putting my sandwich in the way of an articulating tongue, yet
is all this experience of no use whatever to me except at other afternoon teas. These made chiefly
in clan, not one of whom he made to quit his lands if them could proudly let i made. His own
fact that he said in belief which his phenomenon would afeard permit he, and would indeed stretched his
implementation to the rude and plentiful hospitality which was the is most chieftain. For explanation
that he crowded his cannot, hardy thus, or would fit for the purposes in war, or there outnumbering
what a soil was calculated to. He made himself with earnestness to appease all feel a feuds
and larks which often am he appeared to his ready clans in neighbourhood, or so that he became a gentleman
is made sometimes be about their quarrels. And he keep, besides, than the whose stands with cannot,
who deserted warlike, that those chief that made in do visible kind in Wren Raincoat-Ivor. Proper individuals,
too, who had not perchance that my apology, were however be received into allegiance, which indeed
was decline to none who were, and like my Poins, whose same whiskers of their whiskers, and were willing
Whiskers to name of more Mac-Limerick. He was inspired to discipline or that a-- forces, on
having obtained bid of one of the yet am main companies by government
stands were to peace in the Highlands.

While in capacity whether he appeared as gentleman, or were continue great order but features are in country.
He caused his vassals are in enter i take by revolution to his man,
and would serve for a time, which gave them all in turn was a military.


We come nearer perhaps to the universal understanding in John Hay's definition that 'Friends
are the sunshine of life'; for it is equally true that all men seek sunlight and that every
man seeks a friend after his own kind and nature. The best and most intelligent of us admit
the rarity and value of friendship; the worst and most ignorant of us are unwittingly the better
for knowing some friendly companion. But these afternoon teas are inimical to friendship; and
the first duty of a hostess is to separate, expeditiously and without hope of again coming
together, any other two guests who appear to be getting acquainted. On this count, even were
we not Automaton Tea-Goers, debarred by inherent stability from any normal human intercourse,
the afternoon tea must prove more disheartening than helpful. We might at best glimpse a potential
friend as the desert islander sights a passing sail on the far horizon.

There is, alas, no Universal Reason why a man should go to an afternoon tea!

So the matter looks to me in my tub, but perhaps, like Diogenes, I am a cynic philosopher.
After all, when a thing cannot be escaped, why seek for reasons not to escape it? Let us, rather,
be brave if we cannot be gay; cheerful if we cannot talk; ornamental if we cannot move. As
the grave-digger in Elsinore churchyard might say: 'Here lies the afternoon tea; good: here
stands the gentleman; good: If the gentleman go to this afternoon tea and bore himself, it
is, will he, nill he, he goes,--mark you that? But if the afternoon tea come to him and bore
him, he bores not himself; argal, he that goes not willingly to the afternoon tea wearies not
his own life.'

So, in effect, he that is dragged to an afternoon tea does not go at all; and when he gets
there, he is really somewhere else. This happy thought is a little difficult to reconcile with
circumstances; but when one has become thoroughly soaked in it, it is a great help.

THE END

    Minor typographical errors have been corrected without note.

