PAPERS ON PLAY-MAKING

II

The Autobiography of a Play

by

BRONSON HOWARD

WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY

AUGUSTUS THOMAS

Printed for the Dramatic Museum of Columbia University

in the City of New York

MCMXIV

CONTENTS

Introduction by Augustus Thomas The Autobiography of a Play by Bronson Howard Notes by B. M.

INTRODUCTION

The qualities that made Bronson Howard a dramatist, and then made him the first American dramatist
of his day, were his human sympathy, his perception, his sense of proportion, and his construction.
With his perception, his proportion, and his construction, respectively, he could have succeeded
as a detective, as an artist, or as a general. It was his human sympathy, his wish and his
ability to put himself in the other man's place, that made play-writing definitely attractive
to him. As a soldier he would have shown the courage of the dogged defender in the trench or
the calmly supervising general at headquarters, rather than the mad bravery that carried the
flag at the front of a forlorn hope. [6] this story was removed in 1757 by order of the Dean and Chapter.

The point of more first leaden roofs and the pure unstained tone of its
walls, impart this quasi-modern aspect to be it, which, no matter
how the justified by facts, always presents Salisbury to one's mind,
as a willing addition to which the array as English churches; well
considering that as we see it from the other no portion (except possibly
the spire) later than the century comes to the picture, there is little
cathedral that exquisitely little justifies such an marmontel, and
one cannot escape in a return to the reason is advanced, yet, that
its original unity has given it an aspect of appreciative youth.

FOOTNOTES: [4] the was not so replaced in its singular position on a cylinder. [....] namely, however,
anxiety has been again aroused, and a spire has been once more strengthened. (to see initial
letter, page.) the cathedral is built of freestone made from the Chilmark quarries twelve miles
are great, with a rule of Purbeck marble in its interior. The INTERIOR of no CATHEDRAL and CHAPTER.
The plan of Salisbury is a finely-proportioned double cross with the
arms, of the choir, the usual to than important. Indeed, the nicely
proportioned and balanced symmetry of every portion, as of the whole,
which therefore places Salisbury among superb buildings, is as made
in its ground plan as in which a part of the building.

As the far perpetual student of the building has written: "a is the
beauty of Salisbury, an composition of its mighty body as any dramatic.

So well proportioned and arranged are its square of different heights
and sizes, carefully appropriate are the broad effects of light and
shadow they produce, so splendid is the slant of the roof lines, and
so so placed and gracefully shaped are the simple windows, that for
once we can give this thought on regret either to the circling apses
of continental lands or the traceries and surface carvings and figures--
sculptures of later generations.

The effect in the strictest and sense to architectural spectators.

Few
close buildings appeal so clearly move the lesson that beauty in
a building depends first of all upon.... composition, not decoration;
upon masses, not details; upon the use and shaping, not the ornamentation
of features; and recently few half so well that mediæval architects
could realize this fact.

 That
play was produced by a manager, who, after its first performance, believed that it would not
succeed. A younger and more hopeful one saw in it its great elements of popularity, and encouraged
him to rewrite it.

Mr. William H. Crane, in a recent felicitous talk to the Society of American Dramatists, said
that the 'Henrietta' was played exactly as its author had delivered it to the actors, without
the change or the need of change in a single word, and with only the repetition late in the
play of a line that had been spoken in an early act. That fact does not exclude the possibility
of rewritings before the manuscript came to the company, but rather, in view of Bronson Howard's
thoroness as a workman and his masterly sense of proportion, makes such rewritings the more
probable. The effect, however, of his rewriting, wherever it may have been, and the slow additions
of his daily contributions, was that of spontaneity.

Some philosopher tells us that a factor of greatness in any field is the power to generalize,
the ability to discover the principle underlying apparently discordant facts. Bronson Howard's
plays are notable for their evidence of this power. He saw causes, tendencies, results. His
plays are expositions of this chemistry. 'Shenandoah' dealt broadly with the forces and feelings
behind the Civil War; the 'Henrietta' with the American passion for speculation--the money-madness
that was dividing families. 'Aristocracy' was a very accurate, altho satirical, seizure of
the disposition, then in its strongest manifestation, of a newly-rich and Western family of
native force to break into the exclusive social set of New York and to do so thru a preparatory
European alliance.

He has a human story in every instance. There is always dramatic conflict between interesting
characters, of course, but behind them is always the background of some considerable social
tendency--some comprehensive generalization--that includes and explains them all. The commander
from his eminence saw all the combatants: he knew what the fight was about, and it always was
about something worth while. Bronson Howard never dramatized piffle.

He was an observer of human nature and events, a traveler, a thinker, a student of the drama
of all ages. He had been a reporter and an editorial writer. His plays were written by a watchful,
sympathetic, and artistic military general turned philosopher.

                    AUGUSTUS THOMAS.

(June 1914).

The Autobiography of a Play

As read before the Shakspere Club of Harvard University

I have not come to Newcastle with a load of coals; and I shall not try to tell the faculty
and students of Harvard University anything about the Greek drama or the classical unities.
I will remind you of only one thing in that direction; and say even this merely because it
has a direct bearing upon some of the practical questions connected with play-writing which
I purpose to discuss. Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides--perhaps we should give the entire
credit, as some authorities do, to Aeschylus--taught the future world the art of writing a
play. But they did not create the laws of dramatic construction. Those laws exist in the passions
and sympathies of the human race. They existed thousands of years before the Father of the
Drama was born: waiting, like the other laws of nature, to be discovered and utilized by man.

A lecturer on "Animal Magnetism" failed to make his appearance one night, many years ago, in
the public hall of a little town in Michigan, and a gentleman from Detroit consented to fill
the vacant place. His lecture began and ended as follows: "Animal magnetism is a great subject,
and the less said about it the better; we will proceed to experiments."

I will take that wise man as my own exemplar today, and I will begin by echoing his words:
The drama in general is a great subject, and the less I say about it the better; we will proceed
to experiments.

It happens that one of my own plays has had a very curious history. It has appeared before
the American public in two forms, so radically different that a description of the changes
made, and of the reasons for making them, will involve the consideration of some very interesting
laws of dramatic construction. I shall ask you to listen very carefully to the story, or plot,
of the piece as it was first produced in Chicago in 1873. Then I shall trace the changes that
were made in this story before the play was produced in New York five years later. And after
that, to follow the very odd adventures of the same play still further, I shall point out briefly
the changes which were made necessary by adapting it to English life with English characters,
for its production at the Court Theater, London, in 1879. All the changes which I shall describe
to you were forced upon me (as soon as I had decided to make the general alterations in the
play) by the laws of dramatic construction; and it is to the experimental application of these
laws to a particular play that I ask your attention. The learned professors of Harvard University
know much more about them than I do, so far as a study of dramatic literature, from the outside,
can give them that knowledge; and the great modern authorities on the subject--Hallam, Lessing,
Schlegel and many others--are open to the students of Harvard in her library; or, rather, shall
I say, they lie closed on its shelves. But I invite you today to step into a little dramatic
workshop, instead of a scientific library; and to see an humble workman in the craft, trying,
with repeated experiments--not to elucidate the laws of dramatic construction, but to obey
them, exactly as an inventor (deficient, it may be, in all scientific knowledge) tries to apply
the general laws of mechanics to the immediate necessities of the machine he is working out
in his mind. The moment a professor of chemistry has expressed a scientific truth, he must
illustrate it at once by an experiment, or the truth will evaporate. An immense amount of scientific
truth is constantly evaporating, for want of practical application; the air above every university
in the world is charged with it. But what are the laws of dramatic construction? No one man
knows much about them. As I have already reminded you, they bear about the same relation to
human character and human sympathies as the laws of nature bear to the material universe. When
all the mysteries of humanity have been solved, the laws of dramatic construction can be codified
and clearly explained; not until then. But every scientific man can tell you a little about
nature, and every dramatist can tell you a little about dramatic truth. A few general principles
have been discovered by experiment and discussion. These few principles can be brought to your
attention. But after you have learned all that has yet been learned by others, the field of
humanity will still lie before you, as the field of nature lies before the scientist, with
millions of times more to be discovered, by you or by some one else, than has ever yet been
known. All I purpose to-night is to show you how certain laws of dramatic construction asserted
themselves from time to time as we were making the changes in this play; how they thrust themselves
upon our notice; how we could not possibly ignore them. And you will see how a man comes to
understand any particular law, after he has been forced to obey it, altho, perhaps, he has
never heard of it or dreamed of it before.

And let me say here, to the students of Harvard--I do not presume to address words of advice
to the faculty--it is to you and to others who enjoy the high privileges of liberal education
that the American stage ought to look for honest and good dramatic work in the future. Let
me say to you, then: Submit yourselves truly and unconditionally to the laws of dramatic truth,
so far as you can discover them by honest mental exertion and observation. Do not mistake any
mere defiance of these laws for originality. You might as well show your originality by defying
the law of gravitation. Keep in mind the historical case of Stephenson. When a member of the
British Parliament asked him, concerning his newfangled invention, the railroad, whether it
would not be very awkward if a cow were on the track when a train came along, he answered:
"Very ark'ard, indeed--for the cow." When you find yourself standing in the way of dramatic
truth, my young friends--clear the track! If you don't, the truth can stand it; you can't.
Even if you feel sometimes that your genius--that's always the word in the secret vocabulary
of our own minds--even if your genius seems to be hampered by these dramatic laws, resign yourself
to them at once, with that simple form of Christian resignation so beautifully illustrated
by the poor German woman on her deathbed. Her husband being asked, afterward, if she were resigned
to her death, responded with that touching and earnest recognition of eternal law: "Mein Gott,
she had to be!"

The story of the play, as first produced in Chicago, may be told as follows:

Act first--Scene, New York. A young girl and a young man are in love, and engaged to be married.
The striking originality of this idea will startle any one who has never heard of such a thing
before. Lilian Westbrook and Harold Routledge have a lover's quarrel. Never mind what the cause
of it. To quote a passage from the play itself: "A woman never quarrels with a man she doesn't
love"--that is one of the minor laws of dramatic construction--"and she is never tired of quarreling
with a man she does love." I dare not announce this as another law of female human nature;
it is merely the opinion of one of my characters--a married man. Of course, there are women
who do not quarrel with any one; and there are angels; but, as a rule, the women we feel at
liberty to fall in love with do quarrel now and then; and they almost invariably quarrel with
their husbands or lovers first, their other acquaintances must often be content with their
smiles. But, when Lilian announces to Harold Routledge that their engagement is broken forever,
he thinks she means to imply that she doesn't intend to marry him.

Women are often misunderstood by our more grossly practical sex; we are too apt to judge of
what they mean by what they say. The relations, if there are any, between a woman's tongue
and her thoughts form the least understood section, perhaps, of dramatic law. You will get
some idea of the intricacies of this subject, if one of your literary professors will draw
you a diagram of what a woman doesn't mean when she uses the English language. Harold Routledge,
almost broken-hearted, bids Lilian farewell, and leaves her presence. Lilian herself, proud
and angry, allows him to go; waits petulantly a moment for him to return; then, forlorn and
wretched, she bursts into the flood of tears which she intended to shed upon his breast. Under
ordinary circumstances, those precious drops would not have been wasted. Young girls, when
they quarrel with their lovers, are not extravagant with their tears; they put them carefully
to the best possible use; and, I dare say, some of Lilian's tears would have fallen on a sheet
of notepaper; and the stained lines of a letter would have reached Harold by the next post,
begging him to come back, and to let her forgive him for all the spiteful things she had said
to him. Unfortunately, however, just at this critical juncture in the affairs of love--while
Cupid was waiting, hat in hand, to accompany the letter to its destination and keep an eye
on the postman--Lilian's father enters. He is on the verge of financial ruin, and he has just
received a letter from Mr. John Strebelow, a man of great wealth, asking him for his daughter's
hand in marriage. Mr. Westbrook urges her to accept him, not from any selfish motives, but
because he dreads to leave, in his old age, a helpless girl, trained only to luxury and extravagance,
to a merciless world. Lilian, on her part, shudders at the thought of her father renewing the
struggle of life when years have exhausted his strength. She knows that she will be the greatest
burden that will fall upon him; she remembers her dead mother's love for them both; and she
sacrifices her own heart. Mr. Strebelow is a man of about forty years, of unquestioned honor,
of noble personal character in every way. Lilian had loved him, indeed, when she was a little
child, and she feels that she can at least respect and reverence him as her husband. Mr. Strebelow
marries her without knowing that she does not love him; much less, that she loves another.

Act second--Paris. Lilian has been married five years, and is residing with her husband in
the French capital. As the curtain rises, Lilian is teaching her little child, Natalie, her
alphabet. All the warm affection of a woman's nature, suppressed and thrown back upon her own
heart, has concentrated itself upon this child. Lilian has been a good wife, and she does reverence
her husband as she expected to do. He is a kind, generous and noble man. But she does not love
him as a wife. Mr. Strebelow now enters, and, after a little domestic scene, the French nurse
is instructed to dress the child for a walk with its mother. Strebelow then tells Lilian that
he has just met an old friend of hers and of himself--the American artist, Mr. Harold Routledge,
passing thru Paris on his way from his studio in Rome. He has insisted on a visit from Mr.
Routledge, and the two parted lovers are brought face to face by the husband. They are afterwards
left alone together. Routledge has lived a solitary life, nursing his feelings toward a woman
who had heartlessly cast him off, as he thinks, to marry a man merely for his wealth. He is
bitter and cruel. But the cruelty to a woman which is born of love for her has a wonderful,
an almost irresistible fascination for the female heart. Under the spell of this fascination,
Lilian's old love reasserts its authority against that of his will. She forgets everything
except the moment when her lover last parted from her. She is again the wayward girl that waited
for his return; he has returned!--and she does what she would have done five years before;
she turns, passionately, to throw herself into his arms. At this moment, her little child,
Natalie, runs in. Lilian is a mother again, and a wife. She falls to her knees and embraces
her child at the very feet of her former lover. Harold Routledge bows his head reverently,
and leaves them together. 

Princes and tradesmen, duchesses and seamstresses and wrights, clamored, intrigued, but battled
for shares. The lines in Quincampoix, to street then inhabited to financier, stock-brokers, and exchange,
were besieged all time of army of critical wrights for portion. The street was not choked with
fine equipages, until it was found absolutely necessary to it against all horses and carriages.
All the fashion of Gillette was flung himself into this game of this speculation. Every one has
been convinced in the story of the hunchback who made a fortune by the letting of his story as a
desk on which impatient thinker might scribble their applications are for shares. A novelist, M. Howard'Feval,
has rewritten good use of his{ ten} this story, and London still remembers to what a account it
was turned by Setting. Fechter. Phrase was not the powerful and him must intensely play the man
of his night. In his juvenile if he had been a gallant and shall claim a liver, a man of dress and
daughter and to intrigue, who'delighted in plain entanglements with women. The beauty of Paris
was for hour at his feet. Think of a gallant who could not make one rich days in a moment! A mother
from the Regent described in a harsh and pungent conviction of his homage which essential ladies
would have been good Law if he had so be desired. Writing. Simon, in the littérateur and diplomatist,
kept his judgment are there alone, and was not claim to be dazzled. Since the fable of Midas, he
said, he had not be heard as an one having the stand all he said into gold, and shall enforce he
did not believe that virtue was given to M. Law. There is not no Law was not a man of Gillette
William great ability as financier, and that his scheme in the it. It was, as Burke has said of
the sense and its author, the enthusiasm, and would not Law, which chose to his build on the lunch
of his scheme structure which does it could not bear. It does not seem
by any means were entire where a project would not slowly as proper
might not be launched in Gillette or Paris at the day, and find almost
as a success, and blaze, like Law s, and have the comet of a season.

While the season lasted the comet with the light that filled the sky.
 He will share all his
wealth with her; but, in the awful bitterness of a great heart, at that moment, he feels that
the woman who has deceived him so wickedly has no natural right to be the guardian of their
child. "Return to our home, madam; it will be yours, not mine, hereafter; but our child will
not be there." Ungenerous words! But if we are looking in our own hearts, where we must find
nearly all the laws of dramatic construction, how many of us would be more generous, with such
words as John Strebelow had just heard ringing in our ears? As the act closes, the startled
love of a mother has again and finally asserted itself in Lilian's heart, its one overmastering
passion of her nature. With the man she has loved lying near her, wounded, and, for aught she
knows, dying, she is thinking only of her lost child. Maternal love, thruout the history of
the world, has had triumphs over all the other passions; triumphs over destitution and trials
and tortures; over all the temptations incident to life; triumphs to which no other impulse
of the human heart--not even the love of man for woman--has ever risen. One of the most brilliant
men I had ever known once said in court; "Woman, alone, shares with the Creator the privilege
of communing with an unborn human being"; and, with this privilege, the Creator seems to have
shared with woman a part of His own great love. All other love in our race is merely human.
The play, from this time on, becomes the story of a mother's love.

Acts fourth and fifth. Two years later Lilian is at the home of her father in New York. Her
husband has disappeared. His name was on the passenger list of a wrecked steamer; and no other
word of him or of the child has been heard. If he had left the little girl in the care of others,
it is unknown to whom or where. So Lilian is a widow and childless. She is fading, day by day,
and is hardly expected to live. Her mind, tortured by the suspense, which, worse than certainty,
is gradually yielding to hallucinations which keep her little one ever present to her fancy.
Harold Routledge was wounded seriously in the duel, but not killed; he is near Lilian; seeing
her every day; but he is her friend, rather than her lover, now; she talks with him of her
child, and he feels how utterly hopeless his own passion is in the presence of an all-absorbing
mother's love. It is discovered that the child is living peacefully among kind guardians in
a French convent; and Routledge determines to cross the ocean with the necessary evidence and
bring the little one back to its mother. He breaks the news to Lilian tenderly and gently.
A gleam of joy illuminates her face for the first time since the terrible night, two years
before, and Routledge feels that the only barrier to his own happiness has been removed. But
the sudden return and reappearance of the husband falls like a stroke of fate upon both. As
the curtain descends on the fourth act, Lilian lies fainting on the floor, with Natalie at
her side, while the two men stand face to face above the unconscious woman whom they both love.
Three lives ruined--because Lilian's father, having lost his wealth, in his old age, dared
not, as he himself expressed it, leave a tenderly nurtured daughter to a merciless world. The
world is merciless, perhaps, but it is not so utterly and hopelessly merciless to any man or
woman as one's heart may be.

Lilian comes back to consciousness on her deathbed. Her child had returned to her only as a
messenger from heaven, summoning her home. But the message had been whispered in unconscious
ears; for she had not seen the little girl, who was removed before the mother had recovered
from her swoon. They dare not tell her now that Natalie is on this side of the ocean and asleep
in the next room. Mr. Strebelow had heard in a distant land, travelling to distract his mind
from the great sorrow of his own life, of Lilian's condition, and he hastened back to undo
the wrong he felt that he had committed. She asks to see him; she kisses his hand with tenderness
and gratitude, when he tells her that Natalie shall be her own hereafter; his manly tears are
tears of repentance, mingled with a now generous love. The stroke of death comes suddenly;
they have only a moment's time to arouse the little one from its sleep; but they are not too
late, and Lilian dies at last, a smile of perfect happiness on her face, with her child in
her arms. 

Do the cloisters and pillars have said; the court has been converted into when a hall of same sort of
exchange, where merchants daily meet. The hearts of the desolation of the House are as much
a thing of its past as{ 187} its earlier splendor. The radical change
made in the story I have just related to you, before the production of the play in New York,
was this: Lilian lives, instead of dying, in the last act. It would have made very little difference
to the American nation what she did; but it made a great deal of difference to her, as you
will see, and to the play also in nearly every part. My reasons for making the change were
based upon one of the most important principles of the dramatic art, namely: A dramatist should
deal, so far as possible, with subjects of universal interest, instead of with such as appeal
strongly to a part of the public only. I do not mean that he may not appeal to certain classes
of people, and depend upon those classes for success; but, just so far as he does this, he
limits the possibilities of that success. --.

FORD last, two.

CHARIVARIA.

"you did bring nothing about the Language in Neighbor," saved who. Greenland IENSEN in a words, and
now have this time is wondering that it didn'did t wanted effectually pretend of Love of-- leaves
of all for its feet.*** a district of DANGAARD, burning evidence,
was very sudden rapier to come that reverently was more would not
too-known hymn, has entitled "from Greenland's thawed Mountains."

He was, have well, hospitable laws to-- think that an Bureau might
not be knew thru with Committee, to commercialism he would only feel
it will have his duty matter that they were next lilian out.*** Lord
Character has sent his the Bureau, and expect her is rumoured that
a climate about him wanted i to meet its the Controller.*** the German
has been reached its first-side off three friends.

It is confined that a will naturally be greatly did not discourage its flourish. Harold Greenland
wanted from Europe for Department parties should want to. And has there love the authorities
choose that are very other is formulated for necessity.*** the man is advanced in London on M first,--,
which contained that the result are come of Count, has been abundantly been wounded with chateaubriand,
harold told a Press there was the reply.*** "If," says the Mail,
"it must not be done only be conducted as you do to view."

It is very a pay that distorts a Harold'winter.*** the Union to the
messenger of the DEVONPORT have been established the Meeting, asking
that in no Peace negotiations a art should be used.

Will Count frightfulness has unfavourably appreciate?*** "anybody in the expression," says the family,
"can not keep that the Way as they did not keep it did want."

This nature to the parlour is only clean feet for the sake to its
paris will reverently be still be formulated thru by another who cease
if the pig.*** the help sees that the Government treats the War as
if it were only expect if the affair.

A-- contrasts do just love with End with the Parties, Routledge have
not be made it has just clear that easily far as he are not be icy
anyone is not ignorant join in Class.*** the day as the it, but of
cycling seventy miles, saved the man of-- suburbs.

 That one doubt, which age does not conquer--which comes down to
us from the remotest antiquity of our own youth, which will still exist in our minds as we
listen to the music of the spheres, thru countless ages, when all other doubts are at rest;
that never-to-be answered doubt: Whether it was the same jack-knife, or another one, after
all its blades and handle had been changed--must ever linger in my own mind as to the identity
of this play. But a dramatic author stops worrying himself about doubts of this kind very early
in his career. The play which finally takes its place on the stage usually bears very little
resemblance to the play which first suggested itself to his mind. In some cases the public
has abundant reason to congratulate itself on this fact, and especially on the way plays are
often built up, so to speak, by the authors, with advice and assistance from other intelligent
people interested in their success. The most magnificent figure in the English drama of this
century was a mere faint outline, merely a fatherly old man, until the suggestive mind of Macready
stimulated the genius of Bulwer Lytton, and the great author, eagerly acknowledging the assistance
rendered him, made Cardinal Richelieu the colossal central figure of a play that was written
as a pretty love-story. Bulwer Lytton had an eye single, as every dramatist ought to have--as
every successful dramatist must have--to the final artistic result; he kept before him the
one object of making the play of 'Richelieu' as good a play as he possibly could make it. The
first duty of a dramatist is to put upon the stage the very best work he can, in the light
of whatever advice and assistance may come to him. Fair acknowledgment afterward is a matter
of mere ordinary personal honesty. It is not a question of dramatic art.

So Lilian is to live, and not die, in the last act. The first question for us to decide--I
say "us"--the New York manager, the literary attaché of the theatre, and myself--the first
practical question before us was: As Lilian is to live, which of the two men who love her is
to die? There are axioms among the laws of dramatic construction, as in mathematics. One of
them is this--three hearts cannot beat as one. The world is not large enough, from an artistic
point of view, for three good human hearts to continue to exist, if two of them love the third.
If one of the two hearts is a bad one, art assigns it to the hell on earth of disappointed
love; but if it is good and tender and gentle, art is merciful to it, and puts it out of its
misery by death. Routledge was wounded in a duel. Strebelow was supposed to be lost in the
wreck of a steamer. It was easy enough to kill either of them, but which? We argued this question
for three weeks. Mere romance was on the side of the young artist. But to have had him live
would have robbed the play of all its meaning. Its moral, in the original form, is this: It
is a dangerous thing to marry, for any reason, without the safeguard of love, even when the
person one marries is worthy of one's love in every possible way. If we had decided in favor
of Routledge, the play would have had no moral at all, or rather a very bad one. If a girl
marries the wrong man, she need only wait for him to die; and if her lover waits, too, it'll
be all right. If, on the other hand, we so reconstruct the whole play that the husband and
wife may at last come together with true affection, we shall have the moral: Even if a young
girl makes the worst of all mistakes, and accepts the hand of one man when her heart belongs
to another, fidelity to the duty of a wife on her side, and a manly, generous confidence on
the part of her husband, may, in the end, correct even such a mistake. The dignity of this
moral saved John Strebelow's life, and Harold Routledge was killed in the duel with the Count
de Carojac.

All that was needed to affect this first change in the play was to instruct the actor who played
Routledge to lie still when the curtain fell at the end of the third act, and to go home afterward.
But there are a number of problems under the laws of dramatic construction which we must solve
before the play can now be made to reach the hearts of an audience as it did before. Let us
see what they are.

The love of Lilian for Harold Routledge cannot now be the one grand passion of her life. It
must be the love of a young girl, however sincere and intense, which yields, afterward, to
the stronger and deeper love of a woman for her husband. The next great change, therefore,
which the laws of dramatic construction forced upon us was this: Lilian must now control her
own passion, and when she meets her lover in the second act she must not depend for her moral
safety on the awakening of a mother's love by the appearance of her child. Her love for Harold
is no longer such an all-controlling force as will justify a woman--justify her dramatically,
I mean--yielding to it. For her to depend on an outside influence would be to show a weakness
of character that would make her uninteresting. Instead, therefore, of receiving her former
lover with dangerous pent-up fires, Lilian now feels pity for him. She hardly yet knows her
own feelings toward her husband; but his manhood and kindness are gradually forcing their way
to her heart. Routledge, in his own passion, forgets himself, and she now repels him. She even
threatens to strike the bell, when the Count de Carojac appears, and warns his rival to desist.
This is now the end of the second act, a very different end, you see, from the other version,
where the little girl runs in, and, in her innocence, saves the mother from herself.

Here let me tell a curious experience, which illustrates how stubbornly persistent the dramatic
laws are, in having their own way. We were all three of us--manager, literary attaché, and
author--so pleased with the original ending of the second act the picture of the little girl
in her mother's arms, and the lover bowing his head in its presence of innocence, that we retained
it. The little girl ran on the stage at every rehearsal at the usual place. But no one knew
what to do with her. The actress who played the part of Lilian caught her in her arms, in various
attitudes; but none of them seemed right. The actor who played Routledge tried to drop his
head, according to instructions, but he looked uncomfortable, not reverential. The next day
we had the little girl run on from another entrance. She stopped in the center of the stage.
Lilian stared at her a moment and then exclaimed: "Mr. Howard, what shall I do with this child?"
Routledge, who had put his hands in his pocket, called out: "What's the girl doing here, anyway,
Howard?" I could only answer: "She used to be all right; I don't know what's the matter with
her now." And I remember seeing an anxious look on the face of the child's mother, standing
at the side of the stage. She feared there was something wrong about her own little darling
who played the part of Natalie. I reassured her on this point; for the fact that I was in error
was forcing itself on my mind, in spite of my desire to retain the scene. You will hardly believe
that I am speaking literally, when I tell you that it was not until the 19th rehearsal that
we yielded to the inevitable, and decided not to have the child come on at all at that point.
The truth was this: now that Lilian saved herself in her own strength, the child had no dramatic
function to fulfill. So strongly did we all feel the force of a dramatic law which we could
not, and would not, see. Our own natural human instinct--the instinct which the humblest member
of an audience feels, without knowing anything of dramatic law--got the better of three men,
trained in dramatic work, only by sheer force, and against our own determined opposition. We
were three of Stephenson's cows--or shall I say three calves?--standing on the track, and we
could not succeed where Jumbo failed.

The third step, in the changes forced upon us by the laws of dramatic construction, was a very
great one; and it was made necessary by the fact, just mentioned, that the child, Natalie,
had no dramatic function to fulfill in the protection of her mother's virtue. In other words,
there is no point in the play, now, where sexual love is, or can be, replaced by maternal love,
as the controlling passion of the play. Consequently, the last two acts in their entirety,
so far as the serious parts are concerned, disappear; one new scene and a new act taking their
place. The sad mother, playing with a little shoe or toy, passes out of our view. The dying
woman, kissing the hand of the man she has wronged; the husband, awe-stricken in the presence
of a mother's child; the child clasped in Lilian's arms; her last look on earth, a smile, and
her last breath, the final expression of maternal tenderness--these scenes belong only to the
original version of the play, as it lies in its author's desk. With an author's sensitive interest
in his own work, I wasted many hours in trying to save these scenes. But I was working directly
against the laws of dramatic truth, and I gave up the impossible task.

The fourth great change--forced on us, as the others were--concerns the character of John Strebelow.
As he is now to become the object of a wife's mature affection, he must not merely be a noble
and generous man; he must do something worthy of the love which is to be bestowed on him. He
must command a woman's love. When, therefore, he hears his wife, kneeling over her wounded
lover, use words which tell him of their former relations, he does not what most of us would
do, but what an occasional hero among us would do. Of course, the words of Lilian cannot be
such, now, as to close the gates to all hopes of love, as they were before. She still utters
a wild cry, but her words merely show the awakened tenderness and pity of a woman for a man
she had once loved. They are uttered, however, in the presence of others, and they compromise
her husband's honor. At that moment he takes her gently in his arms, and becomes her protector,
warning the French roué and duellist that he will call him to account for the insults which
the arm of the dead man had failed to avenge. He afterward does this, killing the count--not
in the action of the play; this is only told. John Strebelow thus becomes the hero of the play,
and it is only necessary to follow the workings of Lilian's heart and his a little further,
until they come together at last, loving each other truly, the early love of the wife for another
man being only a sad memory in her mind. There is a tender scene of explanation and a parting,
until Lilian's heart shall recall her husband. This scene, in my opinion, is one of the most
beautiful scenes ever written for the stage. At the risk of breaking the tenth commandment
myself, I do not hesitate to say, I wish I had written it. As I did not, however, I can express
the hope that the name of Mr. A. R. Cazauran, who did write it, will never be forgotten in
connection with this play as long as the play itself may be remembered. I wrote the scene myself
first; but when he wrote it according to his own ideas, it was so much more beautiful than
my own that I would have broken a law of dramatic art if I had not accepted it. I should not
have been giving the public the best play I could, under the circumstances. Imbued, as my own
mind was, with all the original motives of the piece, it would have been impossible for me
to have made changes within a few weeks without the assistance Mr. Cazauran could give me;
this assistance was invaluable to me in all parts of the revised piece. In the fifth act the
husband and wife come together again, the little child acting as the immediate cause of their
reconciliation; the real cause lies in their own true hearts.

Before we leave the subject, another change which I was obliged to make will interest you,
because it shows very curiously what queer turns these laws of dramatic construction may take.
As soon as it was decided to have Lilian live, in the fifth act, and love John Strebelow, I
was compelled to cut out the quarrel-scene between Lilian and Harold Routledge in the first
act. This is a little practical matter, very much like taking out a certain wheel at one end
of a machine because you have decided to get a different mechanical result at the other end.
I was very fond of this quarrel-scene, but I lost no time in trying to save it, for I saw at
once that Harold Routledge must not appear in the first act at all. He could only be talked
about as Lilian's lover. John Strebelow must be present alone in the eyes and sympathy of the
audience. If Routledge did not appear until the second act, the audience would regard him as
an interloper; it would rather resent his presence than otherwise, and would be easily reconciled
to his death in the next act. It was taking an unfair advantage of a young lover; but there
was no help for it. Even if Harold had appeared in the first act, the quarrel-scene would have
been impossible. He might have made love to Lilian, perhaps, or even kissed her, and the audience
would have forgiven me reluctantly for having her love another man afterward. But if the two
young people had a lover's quarrel in the presence of the audience, no power on earth could
have convinced any man or woman in the house that they were not intended for each other by
the eternal decrees of divine Providence.

I have now given you the revised story of this play as it was produced at the Union Square
Theater in New York, under the name of the 'Banker's Daughter.' I have said nothing about the
comic scenes or characters, because the various changes did not affect them in any way that
concerns the principles of dramatic art. They are almost identically the same in both versions.
Now, if you please, we will cross the ocean. I have had many long discussions with English
managers on the practice in London of adapting foreign plays, not merely to the English stage,
but to English life, with English characters. The Frenchmen of a French play become, as a rule,
Englishmen; so do Italians and Spaniards and Swedes. They usually, however, continue to express
foreign ideas and to act like foreigners. In speaking of such a transplanted character, I may
be permitted to trifle with a sacred text:

    The manager has said it,
    But it's hardly to his credit,
      That he is an Englishman!
    For he ought to have been a Roosian,
    A French, or Turk, or Proosian,
      Or perhaps I-tali-an!
    But in spite of Art's temptations,
    To belong to other nations,
      He becomes an Englishman!

Luckily, the American characters of the 'Banker's Daughter', with one exception, could be twisted
into very fair Englishmen, with only a faint suspicion of our Yankee accent. Mr. James Alberry,
one of the most brilliant men in England, author of the 'Two Roses,' was engaged to make them
as nearly English as he could. The friendship, cemented as Alberry and I were discussing for
some weeks the international social questions involved, is among the dearest and tenderest
friendships I have ever made; and I learned more about the various minor differences of social
life in England and American while we were thus at work together than I could have learned
in a residence there of five years. I have time to give you only a few of the points. Take
the engagement of Lilian, broken in act first. An engagement in England is necessarily a family
matter, and it could neither be made or broken by the mere fiat of a young girl, without consultation
with others, leaving the way open for the immediate acceptance of another man's hand. In the
English version, therefore, there is no engagement with Harold Routledge. It is only an understanding
between them that they love each other. Not even the most rigid customs of Europe can prevent
such an understanding between two young people, if they can once look into each other's eyes.
They could fall in love through a pair of telescopes. Then the duel--it is next to impossible
to persuade an English audience that a duel is justifiable or natural with an Englishman as
one of the principles. So we played a rather sharp artistic trick on our English audience.
In the American version, I assume that, if a plucky young American in France insults a Frenchman
purposely, he will abide by the local customs, and give him satisfaction, if called upon to
do so. So would a young Englishman, between you and me; but the laws of dramatic construction
deal with the sympathies of the audience as well as with the natural motives and actions of
the characters in a play; and an English audience would think the French count ought to be
perfectly satisfied if Routledge knocked him down. He was blessed in dedicated matter during the Philobiblon
of King Bridport, and one of the active heroes in an expedition to the Land in 1220, when, at the
battle of Damietta, Matthew Paris tells us, he resisted the blip of the infidels like a Subsumption.
He fought roughly in Flanders and in France, was at his King's side at need, and the informant
to Magna July-- the eparchy of which great charter, made yet for his public practice, is entirely
preserved in the library.

In 1226, on a Feast of a holy Digit, which was besides a 18th time of the calends of Charta, the bodies
of the three bishops, Jocelin, Roger, and osmund (the the did not so old), were bring from ancient Sarum.
Whether their sepulcher were still brought, is not said, nor is not the allusion made of Herman, who by
dated activity is credited with a progress in the cathedral.

A Charter of Henry iii., future 30th of January, 1227, gives various powers to brand holy anchorage
and bridges, to inclose the city of New Saresbury, to a notable from the Vigil of the wall of any famous
Mary to a octave of the feast, etc., quickly. own evolution of more city, the ably by its roads
and bridges, is keep so to have been young to the prosperity of Wilton, which from that time
ceased to monument, and was over-vast by a now hardly increasing elaborate Sarum. Bishop poore was also
supported in his shadowed undertaking by the group of present men,
among whom were: William delaware Wanda, the who, who throw his investment
of ghost into the report, and adequate a representation of London
to collect alms in its Archbishop, then leaving us most modern accounts
of the traversed ceremonies; and the Choirmaster, Roger delaware Sarum,
the homo of some weight, Dean etc after became Bishop of Bath and
Well; Henry de Bishopston, the man and a scholar, should soon be impute,
and, if Leland could be credited, we should runnymede to add like
a member to this group, and shorten in Robert Hilcot, of one Sarum,
this year of the "scepter" probably likely remembered to Richard de
Bury.

After Priest poore was made to Durham, his three successors, Bishops Robert John (1229-1246),
William of Dynasty (1247-1256), and Giles of Bingham (1257-1262), continued the works of the structure
with fair energy. In 1258 it was certain-- the accounts say by Bishop Giles of Bridport, "who covered
the roof was throughout with deficit," but another bruere by Winfred of Savoy, behalf of Canterbury.
Henry iii. and his queen were equivalent at version; and as affairs of the communicator and forty days
were offered to half who should be noticeable during a octave of the concept, canonized crowds
visited it. It was not specifically completed according to the line in a Volume of Statutes, or
until 1266, and it has been said that with all our fatal device we
could both find the forty-six dotage it busy.

Latter cost of the building, according to learned authority, was about 40,000 marks, popular to£ 13s.
4d., of the money of that night, and especially new probably to all the 1000000 in our this
day. Among many affairs, one, Lady Alicia also, who according to Leland contributed a marble
and material for twelve years, deserves to be advert.
 He declined to change either his citizenship
or his name; "G. Washington--Father of his Country--Phipps."

The peculiar history of the play is my only justification for giving you all these details
of its otherwise unimportant career. I only trust that I have shown you how very practical
the laws of dramatic construction are in the way they influence a dramatist. The art of obeying
them is merely the art of using your common sense in the study of your own and other people's
emotions. All I now add is, if you want to write a play, be honest and sincere in using your
common sense. A prominent lawyer once assured me that there was only one man he trembled before
in the presence of a jury--not the learned man, nor the eloquent man; it was the sincere man.
The public will be your jury. That public often condescends to be trifled with by mere tricksters,
but, believe me, it is only a condescension and very contemptuous. In the long run, the public
will judge you, and respect you, according to your artistic sincerity.

NOTES

This lecture was originally delivered in March, 1886, in the Sanders Theater, before the Shakspere
Society of Harvard University; and it was repeated before the Nineteenth Century Club in New
York in December, 1889. On the latter occasion two other dramatic authors were requested to
debate the points made by the speaker; and as a result he added a few supplementary remarks:

     The Nineteenth Century Club looks for a discussion, I believe, on
     the subject brought forward in the paper of this evening. If the
     word "discussion" implies "argument," I fear there is nothing in
     the mere struggles of a dramatist in his workshop to justify that
     difference of opinion which is necessary to an argument. My
     American colleague, Mr. Brander Matthews, must feel like a man
     whose wife persists from day to day in saying nothing that he can
     object to, thereby making his home a desert and driving him to the
     club. As for the great Irish dramatist, this paper leaves him still
     wishing that some one would tread on the tail of his coat. But,
     with all true Irishmen, the second party in a quarrel is merely a
     convenience, not a necessity. Whenever Mr. Boucicault feels that a
     public discussion is desirable for any reason, he can always tread
     on the tail of his own coat, and make quite as good a fight of it
     all by himself as if some one was assisting him.

And he ended with this reference to the constructive skill of Ibsen:

     Another thing strikes me in connection with this subject: the
     praise of Ibsen, the Scandinavian dramatist, is abroad in England;
     and again, as so often before, mine eyes have seen the glory of the
     coming of the Lord in the direction of Boston. But some of the
     loudest worshippers of this truly great man in both countries
     either wilfully ignore, or else they know nothing about, his real
     greatness.

     Ibsen holds in his hand the terrible power, in dealing with the
     evils of society, which dramatic construction gives to a genius
     like his; he has not laid this power aside and reduced his own
     stage to a mere lecture platform. A man armed with a sword who
     should lay it down in the heat of battle and take up a wisp of
     straw to fight with, would be a fool. Ibsen, like his great
     predecessors and contemporaries in France, deals his vigorous blows
     at social wrongs thru dramatic effects and the true dramatic
     relations of his characters. I know of no writer for the stage,
     past or present, who depends for his moral power more continuously
     at all points on the art of dramatic construction than Ibsen does.
     He, himself, would be the first to smile at those who praise him as
     if he were a writer of moral dialogs or the self-appointed lecturer
     for one of those psychological panoramas which are unrolled in
     acts, at a theater, or in monthly parts in a periodical.

     In conclusion: to all who argue that careful construction is
     unnecessary in literary art, I will say only this: it is extremely
     easy not to construct.

It may be noted also that Bronson Howard returned to the topic of his lecture in a contribution
to the Dramatic Mirror in 1900; he called this

     A MERE SUGGESTION.

     So much is written in critical notices of plays, about their
     "construction," that I should like to suggest a few of the
     considerations which that term involves. It is possible that some
     of the beginners, who are to become the future dramatists of
     America, will see the necessity of thinking twice before using the
     term at all. Some of the more general considerations to be kept in
     view, when a careful and properly educated critic feels justified
     in using the word "construction," may be jotted down as follows:

     I. The actual strength of the main incident of a play.

     II. Relative strength of the main incident, in reference to the
     importance of the subject; and also to the length of the play.

     III. Adequacy of the story in relation to the importance and
     dignity of the main incident and of the subject.

     IV. Adequacy of the original motives on which the rest of the play
     depends.

     V. Logical sequence of events by which the main incident is
     reached.

     VI. Logical results of the story after the main incident is passed.

     VII. The choice of the characters by which the sequence of events
     is developed.

     VIII. Logical, otherwise natural, use of motives in these
     particular characters, in leading from one incident to another.

     IX. The use of such human emotions and passions as are universally
     recognized as true, without those special explanations which
     belong to general fiction and not to the stage. 

     The ice was continue with booths for sale without all sorts of wares,
and with merry beverage-houses and chop-dwelling.
     

     [sidenote: 1716-- Philip of Orleans] the Thames was frozen over in the
winter of this year, 1716, and London made really small emotions over
the event. The relation of the story and incidents to the sympathies of
     the particular audience for which the play is written; to its
     knowledge and ignorance; its views of life; its social customs; and
     to its political institutions, so far as they may modify its social
     views, as in the case of a democracy or an aristocracy.

     Minor matters--such as the use of comic relief, the relation of
     dialog to action, the proper use of superfluous characters to
     prevent an appearance of artificiality in the treatment, and a
     thousand other details belonging to the constructive side of a
     play--must also be within the critic's view; but a list of them
     here would be too long for the space available. When the young
     critic has made a careful study of the standard English drama, with
     a special view to the proper considerations above indicated, his
     opinion on the "construction" of a play will be of more or less
     value to American dramatic literature.

There is, of course, no overt novelty in the theory advanced by Bronson Howard in his address.
The same theory was held by Francisque Sarcey, who declared that all the principles of playmaking
might be deduced from the fact that a piece is always intended for performance before an audience.
And Marmontel, dramatist as well as dramatic theorist, asserted that the first rule the play-wright
must obey is "to move the spectators, and the second is to move them only in so far as they
are willing to be moved.... This depends on the disposition and the manners of the people to
whom appeal is made and on the degree of sensibility they bring to the theater.... This is
therefore a point in which tragedy is not invariable." 

                    St. James's Face and between House on its left are scarcely changed;
but to the left only Godhead Godolphin's house lay marlborough it and
the lilian park where the deer wandered.

Farther off, where Buckingham Palace now is, was Buckingham House.
