Montaigne and Bacon are our earliest and greatest essayists, and likeness and unlikeness exist
between the men.  Bacon was constitutionally the graver nature.  He writes like one on whom
presses the weight of affairs, and he approaches a subject always on its serious side.  He
does not play with it fantastically.  He lives amongst great ideas, as with great nobles, with
whom he dare not be too familiar.  In the tone of his mind there is ever something imperial.
When he writes on building, he speaks of a palace with spacious entrances, and courts, and
banqueting-halls; when he writes on gardens, he speaks of alleys and mounts, waste places and
fountains, of a garden "which is indeed prince-like."  To read over his table of contents,
is like reading over a roll of peers' names.  Bacon always seems to write with his ermine on.
Montaigne was different from all this.  His table of contents reads, in comparison, like a
medley, or a catalogue of an auction.  He was quite as wise as Bacon; he could look through
men quite as clearly, and search them quite as narrowly; certain of his moods were quite as
serious, and in one corner of his heart he kept a yet profounder melancholy; but he was volatile,
a humourist, and a gossip.  He could be dignified enough on great occasions, but dignity and
great occasions bored him.  He could stand in the presence with propriety enough, but then
he got out of the presence as rapidly as possible.  When, in the thirty-eighth year of his
age, he--somewhat world-weary, and with more scars on his heart than he cared to discover--retired
to his chateau, he placed his library "in the great tower overlooking the entrance to the court,"
and over the central rafter he inscribed in large letters the device--"I DO NOT UNDERSTAND;
I PAUSE; I EXAMINE."  When he began to write his Essays he had no great desire to shine as
an author; he wrote simply to relieve teeming heart and brain.  The best method to lay the
spectres of the mind is to commit them to paper.  Speaking of the Essays, he says, "This book
has a domestic and private object.  It is intended for the use of my relations and friends;
so that, when they have lost me, which they will soon do, they may find in it some features
of my condition and humours; and by this means keep up more completely, and in a more lively
manner, the knowledge they have of me."  In his Essays he meant to portray himself, his habits,
his modes of thought, his opinions, what fruit of wisdom he had gathered from experience sweet
and bitter; and the task he has executed with wonderful fidelity.  He does not make himself
a hero.  Cromwell would have his warts painted; and Montaigne paints his, and paints them too
with a certain fondness.  He is perfectly tolerant of himself and of everybody else.  Whatever
be the subject, the writing flows on easy, equable, self-satisfied, almost always with a personal
anecdote floating on the surface.  Each event of his past life he considers a fact of nature;
creditable or the reverse, there it is; sometimes to be speculated upon, not in the least to
be regretted.  If it is worth nothing else, it may be made the subject of an essay, or, at
least, be useful as an illustration.  We have not only his thoughts, we see also how and from
what they arose.  When he presents you with a bouquet, you notice that the flowers have been
plucked up by the roots, and to the roots a portion of the soil still adheres.  On his daily
life his Essays grew like lichens upon rocks.  If a thing is useful to him, he is not squeamish
as to where he picks it up.  In his eye there is nothing common or unclean; and he accepts
a favour as willingly from a beggar as from a prince.  When it serves his purpose, he quotes
a tavern catch, or the smart saying of a kitchen wench, with as much relish as the fine sentiment
of a classical poet, or the gallant bon mot of a king.  Everything is important which relates
to himself. That his mustache, if stroked with his perfumed glove, or handkerchief, will retain
the odour a whole day, is related with as much gravity as the loss of a battle, or the march
of a desolating plague.  Montaigne, in his grave passages, reaches an eloquence intricate and
highly wrought; but then his moods are Protean, and he is constantly alternating his stateliness
with familiarity, anecdote, humour, coarseness.  His Essays are like a mythological landscape--you
hear the pipe of Pan in the distance, the naked goddess moves past, the satyr leers from the
thicket.  At the core of him profoundly melancholy, and consumed by a hunger for truth, he
stands like Prospero in the enchanted island, and he has Ariel and Caliban to do his behests
and run his errands.  Sudden alternations are very characteristic of him. Whatever he says
suggests its opposite.  He laughs at himself and his reader.  He builds his castle of cards
for the mere pleasure of knocking it down again.  He is ever unexpected and surprising.  And
with this curious mental activity, this play and linked dance of discordant elements, his page
is alive and restless, like the constant flicker of light and shadow in a mass of foliage which
the wind is stirring.

Montaigne is avowedly an egotist; and by those who are inclined to make this a matter of reproach,
it should be remembered that the value of egotism depends entirely on the egotist.  If the
egotist is weak, his egotism is worthless.  If the egotist is strong, acute, full of distinctive
character, his egotism is precious, and remains a possession of the race.  If Shakspeare had
left personal revelations, how we should value them; if, indeed, he has not in some sense left
them--if the tragedies and comedies are not personal revelations altogether--the multiform
nature of the man rushing towards the sun at once in Falstaff, Hamlet, and Romeo.  But calling
Montaigne an egotist does not go a great way to decipher him.  No writer takes the reader so
much into his confidence, and no one so entirely escapes the penalty of confidence.  He tells
us everything about himself, we think; and when all is told, it is astonishing how little we
really know.  The esplanades of Montaigne's palace are thoroughfares, men from every European
country rub clothes there, but somewhere in the building there is a secret room in which the
master sits, of which no one but himself wears the key.  We read in the Essays about his wife,
his daughter, his daughter's governess, of his cook, of his page, "who was never found guilty
of telling the truth," of his library, the Gascon harvest outside his chateau, his habits of
composition, his favourite speculations; but somehow the man himself is constantly eluding
us. His daughter's governess, his page, the ripening Gascon fields, are never introduced for
their own sakes; they are employed to illustrate and set off the subject on which he happens
to be writing.  A brawl in his own kitchen he does not consider worthy of being specially set
down, but he has seen and heard everything: it comes in his way when travelling in some remote
region, and accordingly it finds a place.  He is the frankest, most outspoken of writers; and
that very frankness. and outspokenness puts the reader off his guard.  If you wish to preserve
your secret, wrap it up in frankness.  The Essays are full of this trick.  The frankness is
as well simulated as the grape-branches of the Grecian artist which the birds flew towards
and pecked.  When Montaigne retreats, he does so like a skilful general, leaving his fires
burning.  In other ways, too, he is an adept in putting his reader out.  He discourses with
the utmost gravity, but you suspect mockery or banter in his tones.  He is serious with the
most trifling subjects, and he trifles with the most serious.  "He broods eternally over his
own thought," but who can tell what his thought may be for the nonce?  He is of all writers
the most vagrant, surprising, and, to many minds, illogical.  His sequences are not the sequences
of other men. His writings are as full of transformations as a pantomime or a fairy tale. 
His arid wastes lead up to glittering palaces, his banqueting-halls end in a dog-hutch.  He
begins an essay about trivialities, and the conclusion is in the other world.  And the peculiar
character of his writing, like the peculiar character of all writing which is worth anything,
arises from constitutional turn of mind.  He is constantly playing at fast and loose with himself
and his reader.  He mocks and scorns his deeper nature; and, like Shakspeare in Hamlet, says
his deepest things in a jesting way.  When he is gayest, be sure there is a serious design
in his gaiety.  Singularly shrewd and penetrating--sad, not only from sensibility of exquisite
nerve and tissue, but from meditation, and an eye that pierced the surfaces of things--fond
of pleasure, yet strangely fascinated by death--sceptical, yet clinging to what the Church
taught and believed--lazily possessed by a high ideal of life, yet unable to reach it, careless
perhaps often to strive after it, and with no very high opinion of his own goodness, or of
the goodness of his fellows--and with all these serious elements, an element of humour mobile
as flame, which assumed a variety of forms, now pure fun, now mischievous banter, now blistering
scorn--humour in all its shapes, carelessly exercised on himself and his readers--with all
this variety, complexity, riot, and contradiction almost of intellectual forces within, Montaigne
wrote his bewildering Essays--with the exception of Rabelais, the greatest Modern Frenchman--the
creator of a distinct literary form, and to whom, down even to our own day, even in point of
subject-matter, every essayist has been more or less indebted.

Bacon is the greatest of the serious and stately essayists,--Montaigne the greatest of the
garrulous and communicative.  The one gives you his thoughts on Death, Travel, Government,
and the like, and lets you make the best of them; the other gives you his on the same subjects,
but he wraps them up in personal gossip and reminiscence.  With the last it is never Death
or Travel alone: it is always Death one-fourth, and Montaigne three-fourths; or Travel one-fourth,
and Montaigne three-fourths.  He pours his thought into the water of gossip, and gives you
to drink.  He gilds his pill always, and he always gilds it with himself.  The general characteristics
of his Essays have been indicated, and it is worth while inquiring what they teach, what positive
good they have done, and why for three centuries they have charmed, and still continue to charm.

The Essays contain a philosophy of life, which is not specially high, yet which is certain
to find acceptance more or less with men who have passed out beyond the glow of youth, and
who have made trial of the actual world.  The essence of his philosophy is a kind of cynical
common-sense.  He will risk nothing in life; he will keep to the beaten track; he will not
let passion blind or enslave him; he will gather round him what good he can, and will therewith
endeavour to be content. He will be, as far as possible, self-sustained; he will not risk his
happiness in the hands of man, or of woman either.  He is shy of friendship, he fears love,
for he knows that both are dangerous.  He knows that life is full of bitters, and he holds
it wisdom that a man should console himself, as far as possible, with its sweets, the principal
of which are peace, travel, leisure, and the writing of essays.  He values obtainable Gascon
bread and cheese more than the unobtainable stars.  He thinks crying for the moon the foolishest
thing in the world.  He will remain where he is.  He will not deny that a new world may exist
beyond the sunset, but he knows that to reach the new world there is a troublesome Atlantic
to cross; and he is not in the least certain that, putting aside the chance of being drowned
on the way, he will be one whit happier in the new world than he is in the old.  For his part
he will embark with no Columbus.  He feels that life is but a sad thing at best; but as he
has little hope of making it better, he accepts it, and will not make it worse by murmuring.
When the chain galls him, he can at least revenge himself by making jests on it.  He will temper
the despotism of nature by epigrams.  He has read Aesop's fable, and is the last man in the
world to relinquish the shabbiest substance to grasp at the finest shadow.

Of nothing under the sun was Montaigne quite certain, except that every man--whatever his station--might
travel farther and fare worse; and that the playing with his own thoughts, in the shape of
essay-writing, was the most harmless of amusements.  His practical acquiescence in things does
not promise much fruit, save to himself; yet in virtue of it he became one of the forces of
the world--a very visible agent in bringing about the Europe which surrounds us today.  He
lived in the midst of the French religious wars.  The rulers of his country were execrable
Christians, but most orthodox Catholics.  The burning of heretics was a public amusement, and
the court ladies sat out the play. On the queen-mother and on her miserable son lay all the
blood of the St. Bartholomew.  The country was torn asunder; everywhere was battle, murder,
pillage, and such woeful partings as Mr. Millais has represented in his incomparable picture.
To the solitary humourous essayist this state of things was hateful.  He was a good Catholic
in his easy way; he attended divine service regularly; he crossed himself when he yawned. 
He conformed in practice to every rule of the Church; but if orthodox in these matters, he
was daring in speculation.  There was nothing he was not bold enough to question.  He waged
war after his peculiar fashion with every form of superstition.  He worked under the foundations
of priestcraft.  But while serving the Reformed cause, he had no sympathy with Reformers. 
If they would but remain quiet, but keep their peculiar notions to themselves, France would
rest!  That a man should go to the stake for an opinion, was as incomprehensible to him as
that a priest or king should send him there for an opinion.  He thought the persecuted and
the persecutors fools about equally matched. He was easy-tempered and humane--in the hunting-field
he could not bear the cry of a dying hare with composure--martyr-burning had consequently no
attraction for such a man.  His scepticism came into play, his melancholy humour, his sense
of the illimitable which surrounds man's life, and which mocks, defeats, flings back his thought
upon himself. Man is here, he said, with bounded powers, with limited knowledge, with an unknown
behind, an unknown in front, assured of nothing but that he was born, and that he must die;
why, then, in Heaven's name should he burn his fellow for a difference of opinion in the matter
of surplices, or as to the proper fashion of conducting devotion?  Out of his scepticism and
his merciful disposition grew, in that fiercely intolerant age, the idea of toleration, of
which he was the apostle. Widely read, charming every one by his wit and wisdom, his influence
spread from mind to mind, and assisted in bringing about the change which has taken place in
European thought.  His ideas, perhaps, did not spring from the highest sources.  He was no
ascetic, he loved pleasure, he was tolerant of everything except cruelty; but on that account
we should not grudge him his meed.  It is in this indirect way that great writers take their
place among the forces of the world.  In the long run, genius and wit side with the right cause.
And the man fighting against wrong to-day is assisted, in a greater degree than perhaps he
is himself aware, by the sarcasm of this writer, the metaphor of that, the song of the other,
although the writers themselves professed indifference, or were even counted as belonging to
the enemy.

Montaigne's hold on his readers arises from many causes.  There is his frank and curious self-delineation;
that interests, because it is the revelation of a very peculiar nature.  Then there is the
positive value of separate thoughts imbedded in his strange whimsicality and humour. Lastly,
there is the perennial charm of style, which is never a separate quality, but rather the amalgam
and issue of all the mental and moral qualities in a man's possession, and which bears the
same relation to these that light bears to the mingled elements that make up the orb of the
sun.  And style, after all, rather than thought, is the immortal thing in literature.  In literature,
the charm of style is indefinable, yet all-subduing, just as fine manners are in social life.
In reality, it is not of so much consequence what you say, as how you say it.  Memorable sentences
are memorable on account of some single irradiating word.  "But Shadwell never deviates into
sense," for instance.  Young Roscius, in his provincial barn, will repeat you the great soliloquy
of Hamlet, and although every word may be given with tolerable correctness, you find it just
as commonplace as himself; the great actor speaks it, and you "read Shakspeare as by a flash
of lightning."  And it is in Montaigne's style, in the strange freaks and turnings of his thought,
his constant surprises, his curious alternations of humour and melancholy, his careless, familiar
form of address, and the grace with which everything is done, that his charm lies, and which
makes the hundredth perusal of him as pleasant as the first.

And on style depends the success of the essayist.  Montaigne said the most familiar things
in the finest way.  Goldsmith could not be termed a thinker; but everything he touched he brightened,
as after a month of dry weather, the shower brightens the dusty shrubbery of a suburban villa.
The world is not so much in need of new thoughts as that when thought grows old and worn with
usage it should, like current coin, be called in, and, from the mint of genius, reissued fresh
and new.  Love is an old story enough, but in every generation it is re-born, in the downcast
eyes and blushes of young maidens.  And so, although he fluttered in Eden, Cupid is young to-day.
If Montaigne had lived in Dreamthorp, as I am now living, had he written essays as I am now
writing them, his English Essays would have been as good as his Gascon ones.  Looking on, the
country cart would not for nothing have passed him on the road to market, the setting sun would
be arrested in its splendid colours, the idle chimes of the church would be translated into
a thoughtful music.  As it is, the village life goes on, and there is no result.  My sentences
are not much more brilliant than the speeches of the clowns; in my book there is little more
life than there is in the market-place on the days when there is no market.

OF DEATH AND THE FEAR OF DYING

Let me curiously analyse eternal farewells, and the last pressures of loving hands.  Let me
smile at faces bewept, and the nodding plumes and slow paces of funerals.  Let me write down
brave heroical sentences--sentences that defy death, as brazen Goliath the hosts of Israel.

"When death waits for us is uncertain, let us everywhere look for him. The premeditation of
death is the premeditation of liberty; who has learnt to die, has forgot to serve.  There is
nothing of evil in life for him who rightly comprehends that death is no evil; to know how
to die delivers us from all subjection and constraint.  Paulus Aemilius answered him whom the
miserable king of Macedon, his prisoner, sent to entreat him that he would not lead him in
his triumph, 'Let him make that request to himself.'  In truth, in all things, if nature do
not help a little, it is very hard for art and industry to perform anything to purpose.  I
am, in my own nature, not melancholy, but thoughtful; and there is nothing I have more continually
entertained myself withal than the imaginations of death, even in the gayest and most wanton
time of my age.  In the company of ladies, and in the height of mirth, some have perhaps thought
me possessed of some jealousy, or meditating upon the uncertainty of some imagined hope, whilst
I was entertaining myself with the remembrance of some one surprised a few days before with
a burning fever, of which he died, returning from an entertainment like this, with his head
full of idle fancies of love and jollity, as mine was then; and for aught I knew, the same
destiny was attending me.  Yet did not this thought wrinkle my forehead any more than any other."
. . . . "Why dost thou fear this last day?  It contributes no more to thy destruction than
every one of the rest.  The last step is not the cause of lassitude, it does but confer it.
Every day travels toward death; the last only arrives at it.  These are the good lessons our
mother nature teaches.  I have often considered with myself whence it should proceed, that
in war the image of death--whether we look upon it as to our own particular danger, or that
of another--should, without comparison, appear less dreadful than at home in our own houses,
(for if it were not so, it would be an army of whining milksops,) and that being still in all
places the same, there should be, notwithstanding, much more assurance in peasants and the
meaner sort of people, than others of better quality and education; and I do verily believe,
that it is those terrible ceremonies and preparations wherewith we set it out, that more terrify
us than the thing itself; a new, quite contrary way of living, the cries of mothers, wives
and children, the visits of astonished and affected friends, the attendance of pale and blubbered
servants, a dark room set round with burning tapers, our beds environed with physicians and
divines; in fine, nothing but ghostliness and horror round about us, render it so formidable,
that a man almost fancies himself dead and buried already.  Children are afraid even of those
they love best, and are best acquainted with, when disguised in a vizor, and so are we; the
vizor must be removed as well from things as persons; which being taken away, we shall find
nothing underneath but the very same death that a mean servant, or a poor chambermaid, died
a day or two ago, without any manner of apprehension or concern." [1]

"Men feare death as children feare to goe in the darke; and as that natural feare in children
is increased with tales, so in the other. Certainly the contemplation of death as the wages
of sinne, and passage to another world, is holy and religious; but the feare of it as a tribute
unto nature, is weake.  Yet in religious meditations there is sometimes mixture of vanitie
and of superstition.  For the most vitall parts are not the quickest of sense.  Groanes and
convulsions, and a discoloured face, and friends weeping, and blackes and obsequies, and the
like, shew death terrible.  It is worthy the observing, that there is no passion in the minde
of man so weake but it mates and masters the feare of death; and therefore death is no such
terrible enemy when a man hath so many attendants about him that can winne the combat of him.
Revenge triumphs over death, love subjects it, honour aspireth to it, griefe fleeth to it,
feare pre-occupieth it; nay, we read, after Otho the emperour had slaine himselfe, pitty, (which
is the tenderest of affections,) provoked many to die, out of meer compassion to their soveraigne,
and as the truest sort of followers. . . . . [2]

These sentences of the great essayists are brave and ineffectual as Leonidas and his Greeks.
Death cares very little for sarcasm or trope; hurl at him a javelin or a rose, it is all one.
We build around ourselves ramparts of stoical maxims, edifying to witness, but when the terror
comes these yield as the knots of river flags to the shoulder of Behemoth.

Death is terrible only in presence.  When distant, or supposed to be distant, we can call him
hard or tender names, nay, even poke our poor fun at him.  Mr. Punch, on one occasion, when
he wished to ridicule the useful-information leanings of a certain periodical publication,
quoted from its pages the sentence, "Man is mortal," and people were found to grin broadly
over the exquisite stroke of humour.  Certainly the words, and the fact they contain, are trite
enough.  Utter the sentence gravely in any company, and you are certain to provoke laughter.
And yet some subtile recognition of the fact of death runs constantly through the warp and
woof of the most ordinary human existence.  And this recognition does not always terrify. 
The spectre has the most cunning disguises, and often when near us we are unaware of the fact
of proximity.  Unsuspected, this idea of death lurks in the sweetness of music; it has something
to do with the pleasures with which we behold the vapours of morning; it comes between the
passionate lips of lovers; it lives in the thrill of kisses.  "An inch deeper, and you will
find the emperor."  Probe joy to its last fibre, and you will find death.  And it is the most
merciful of all the merciful provisions of nature, that a haunting sense of insecurity should
deepen the enjoyment of what we have secured; that the pleasure of our warm human day and its
activities should to some extent arise from a vague consciousness of the waste night which
environs it, in which no arm is raised, in which no voice is ever heard.  Death is the ugly
fact which nature has to hide, and she hides it well.  Human life were otherwise an impossibility.
The pantomime runs on merrily enough; but when once Harlequin lifts his vizor, Columbine disappears,
the jest is frozen on the Clown's lips, and the hand of the filching Pantaloon is arrested
in the act.  Wherever death looks, there is silence and trembling.  But although on every man
he will one day or another look, he is coy of revealing himself till the appointed time.  He
makes his approaches like an Indian warrior, under covers and ambushes.  We have our parts
to play, and he remains hooded till they are played out.  We are agitated by our passions,
we busily pursue our ambitions, we are acquiring money or reputation, and all at once, in the
centre of our desires, we discover the "Shadow feared of man."  And so nature fools the poor
human mortal evermore.  When she means to be deadly, she dresses her face in smiles; when she
selects a victim, she sends him a poisoned rose.  There is no pleasure, no shape of good fortune,
no form of glory in which death has not hid himself, and waited silently for his prey.

And death is the most ordinary thing in the world.  It is as common as births; it is of more
frequent occurrence than marriages and the attainment of majorities.  But the difference between
death and other forms of human experience lies in this, that we can gain no information about
it.  The dead man is wise, but he is silent.  We cannot wring his secret from him.  We cannot
interpret the ineffable calm which gathers on the rigid face.  As a consequence, when our thought
rests on death we are smitten with isolation and loneliness.  We are without company on the
dark road; and we have advanced so far upon it that we cannot hear the voices of our friends.
It is in this sense of loneliness, this consciousness of identity and nothing more, that the
terror of dying consists.  And yet, compared to that road, the most populous thoroughfare of
London or Pekin is a desert.  What enumerator will take for us the census of dead?  And this
matter of death and dying, like most things else in the world, may be exaggerated by our own
fears and hopes.  Death, terrible to look forward to, may be pleasant even to look back at.
Could we be admitted to the happy fields, and hear the conversations which blessed spirits
hold, one might discover that to conquer death a man has but to die; that by that act terror
is softened into familiarity, and that the remembrance of death becomes but as the remembrance
of yesterday.  To these fortunate ones death may be but a date, and dying a subject fruitful
in comparisons, a matter on which experiences may be serenely compared.  Meantime, however,
we have not yet reached that measureless content, and death scares, piques, tantalises, as
mind and nerve are built.  Situated as we are, knowing that it is inevitable, we cannot keep
our thoughts from resting on it curiously, at times.  Nothing interests us so much.  The Highland
seer pretended that he could see the winding-sheet high upon the breast of the man for whom
death was waiting.  Could we behold any such visible sign, the man who bore it, no matter where
he stood--even if he were a slave watching Caesar pass--would usurp every eye.  At the coronation
of a king, the wearing of that order would dim royal robe, quench the sparkle of the diadem,
and turn to vanity the herald's cry.  Death makes the meanest beggar august, and that augustness
would assert itself in the presence of a king.  And it is this curiosity with regard to everything
related to death and dying which makes us treasure up the last sayings of great men, and attempt
to wring out of them tangible meanings.  Was Goethe's "Light--light, more light!" a prayer,
or a statement of spiritual experience, or simply an utterance of the fact that the room in
which he lay was filling with the last twilight?  In consonance with our own natures, we interpret
it the one way or the other--he is beyond our questioning.  For the same reason it is that
men take interest in executions--from Charles I. on the scaffold at Whitehall, to Porteous
in the Grassmarket execrated by the mob.  These men are not dulled by disease, they are not
delirious with fever; they look death in the face, and what in these circumstances they say
and do has the strangest fascination for us.

What does the murderer think when his eyes are forever blinded by the accursed nightcap?  In
what form did thought condense itself between the gleam of the lifted axe and the rolling of
King Charles's head in the saw-dust?  This kind of speculation may be morbid, but it is not
necessarily so.  All extremes of human experience touch us; and we have all the deepest personal
interest in the experience of death.  Out of all we know about dying we strive to clutch something
which may break its solitariness, and relieve us by a touch of companionship.

To denude death of its terrible associations were a vain attempt.  The atmosphere is always
cold around an iceberg.  In the contemplation of dying the spirit may not flinch, but pulse
and heart, colour and articulation, are always cowards.  No philosophy will teach them bravery
in the stern presence.  And yet there are considerations which rob death of its ghastliness,
and help to reconcile us to it.  The thoughtful happiness of a human being is complex, and
in certain moved moments, which, after they have gone, we can recognise to have been our happiest,
some subtle thought of death has been curiously intermixed. And this subtle intermixture it
is which gives the happy moment its character--which makes the difference between the gladness
of a child, resident in mere animal health and impulse, and too volatile to be remembered,
and the serious joy of a man, which looks before and after, and takes in both this world and
the next.  Speaking broadly, it may be said that it is from some obscure recognition of the
fact of death that life draws its final sweetness.  An obscure, haunting recognition, of course;
for if more than that, if the thought becomes palpable, defined, and present, it swallows up
everything.  The howling of the winter wind outside increases the warm satisfaction of a man
in bed; but this satisfaction is succeeded by quite another feeling when the wind grows into
a tempest, and threatens to blow the house down.  And this remote recognition of death may
exist almost constantly in a man's mind, and give to his life keener zest and relish.  His
lights may burn the brighter for it, and his wines taste sweeter.  For it is on the tapestry
or a dim ground that the figures come out in the boldest relief and the brightest colour.

If we were to live here always, with no other care than how to feed, clothe, and house ourselves,
life would be a very sorry business.  It is immeasurably heightened by the solemnity of death.
The brutes die even as we; but it is our knowledge that we have to die that makes us human.
If nature cunningly hides death, and so permits us to play out our little games, it is easily
seen that our knowing it to be inevitable, that to every one of us it will come one day or
another, is a wonderful spur to action.  We really do work while it is called to-day, because
the night cometh when no man can work.  We may not expect it soon--it may not have sent us
a single avant-courier--yet we all know that every day brings it nearer.  On the supposition
that we were to live here always, there would be little inducement to exertion.  But, having
some work at heart, the knowledge that we may be, any day, finally interrupted, is an incentive
to diligence.  We naturally desire to have it completed, or at least far advanced toward completion,
before that final interruption takes place.  And knowing that his existence here is limited,
a man's workings have reference to others rather than to himself, and thereby into his nature
comes a new influx of nobility.  If a man plants a tree, he knows that other hands than his
will gather the fruit; and when he plants it, he thinks quite as much of those other hands
as of his own.  Thus to the poet there is the dearer life after life; and posterity's single
laurel leaf is valued more than a multitude of contemporary bays.  Even the man immersed in
money-making does not make money so much for himself as for those who may come after him. 
Riches in noble natures have a double sweetness.  The possessor enjoys his wealth, and he heightens
that enjoyment by the imaginative entrance into the pleasure which his son or his nephew may
derive from it when he is away, or the high uses to which he may turn it.  Seeing that we have
no perpetual lease of life and its adjuncts, we do not live for ourselves.  And thus it is
that death, which we are accustomed to consider an evil, really acts for us the friendliest
part, and takes away the commonplace of existence.  My life, and your life, flowing on thus
day by day, is a vapid enough piece of business; but when we think that it must close, a multitude
of considerations, not connected with ourselves but with others, rush in, and vapidity vanishes
at once.  Life, if it were to flow on forever and thus, would stagnate and rot.  The hopes,
and fears, and regrets, which move and trouble it, keep it fresh and healthy, as the sea is
kept alive by the trouble of its tides.  In a tolerably comfortable world, where death is not,
it is difficult to see from what quarter these healthful fears, regrets, and hopes could come.
As it is, there are agitations and sufferings in our lots enough; but we must remember that
it is on account of these sufferings and agitations that we become creatures breathing thoughtful
breath.  As has already been said, death takes away the commonplace of life.  And positively,
when one looks on the thousand and one poor, foolish, ignoble faces of this world, and listens
to the chatter as poor and foolish as the faces, one, in order to have any proper respect for
them, is forced to remember that solemnity of death, which is silently waiting.  The foolishest
person will look grand enough one day.  The features are poor now, but the hottest tears and
the most passionate embraces will not seem out of place then.  If you wish to make a man look
noble, your best course is to kill him.  What superiority he may have inherited from his race,
what superiority nature may have personally gifted him with, comes out in death.  The passions
which agitate, distort, and change, are gone away forever, and the features settle back into
a marble calm, which is the man's truest image.  Then the most affected look sincere, the most
volatile, serious--all noble, more or less.  And nature will not be surprised into disclosures.
The man stretched out there may have been voluble as a swallow, but now--when he could speak
to some purpose--neither pyramid nor sphinx holds a secret more tenaciously.

Consider, then, how the sense of impermanence brightens beauty and elevates happiness.  Melancholy
is always attendant on beauty, and that melancholy brings out its keenness as the dark green
corrugated leaf brings out the wan loveliness of the primrose.  The spectator enjoys the beauty,
but his knowledge that it is fleeting, and that he fleeting, adds a pathetic something to it;
and by that something the beautiful object and the gazer are alike raised.

Everything is sweetened by risk.  The pleasant emotion is mixed and deepened by a sense of
mortality.  Those lovers who have never encountered the possibility of last embraces and farewells
are novices in the passion.  Sunset affects us more powerfully than sunrise, simply because
it is a setting sun, and suggests a thousand analogies.  A mother is never happier than when
her eyes fill over her sleeping child, never does she kiss it more fondly, never does she pray
for it more fervently; and yet there is more in her heart than visible red cheek and yellow
curl; possession and bereavement are strangely mingled in the exquisite maternal mood, the
one heightening the other.  All great joys are serious; and emotion must be measured by its
complexity and the deepness of its reach.  A musician may draw pretty notes enough from a single
key, but the richest music is that in which the whole force of the instrument is employed,
in the production of which every key is vibrating; and, although full of solemn touches and
majestic tones, the final effect may be exuberant and gay.  Pleasures which rise beyond the
mere gratification of the senses are dependant for their exquisiteness on the number and variety
of the thoughts which they evoke.  And that joy is the greatest which, while felt to be joy,
can include the thought of death and clothe itself with that crowning pathos.  And in the minds
of thoughtful persons every joy does, more or less, with the crowning pathos clothe itself.

In life there is nothing more unexpected and surprising than the arrivals and departures of
pleasure.  If we find it in one place to-day, it is vain to seek it there to-morrow.  You cannot
lay a trap for it.  It will fall into no ambuscade, concert it ever so cunningly. Pleasure
has no logic; it never treads in its own footsteps.  Into our commonplace existence it comes
with a surprise, like a pure white swan from the airy void into the ordinary village lake;
and just as the swan, for no reason that can be discovered, lifts itself on its wings and betakes
itself to the void again, it leaves us, and our sole possession is its memory.  And it is characteristic
of pleasure that we can never recognise it to be pleasure till after it is gone.  Happiness
never lays its finger on its pulse.  If we attempt to steal a glimpse of its features it disappears.
It is a gleam of unreckoned gold.  From the nature of the case, our happiness, such as in its
degree it has been, lives in memory.  We have not the voice itself; we have only its echo.
We are never happy; we can only remember that we were so once. And while in the very heart
and structure of the happy moment there lurked an obscure consciousness of death, the memory
in which past happiness dwells is always a regretful memory.  This is why the tritest utterance
about the past, youth, early love, and the like, has always about it an indefinable flavour
of poetry, which pleases and affects. In the wake of a ship there is always a melancholy splendour.
The finest set of verses of our modern time describes how the poet gazed on the "happy autumn
fields," and remembered the "days that were no more." After all, a man's real possession is
his memory.  In nothing else is he rich, in nothing else is he poor.

In our warm imaginative youth, death is far removed from us, and attains thereby a certain
picturesqueness.  The grim thought stands in the ideal world as a ruin stands in a blooming
landscape.  The thought of death sheds a pathetic charm over everything then.  The young man
cools himself with a thought of the winding-sheet and the charnel, as the heated dancer cools
himself on the balcony with the night-air.  The young imagination plays with the idea of death,
makes a toy of it, just as a child plays with edge-tools till once it cuts its fingers.  The
most lugubrious poetry is written by very young and tolerably comfortable persons.  When a
man's mood becomes really serious he has little taste for such foolery.  The man who has a
grave or two in his heart, does not need to haunt churchyards.  The young poet uses death as
an antithesis; and when he shocks his reader by some flippant use of it in that way, he considers
he has written something mightily fine. In his gloomiest mood he is most insincere, most egotistical,
most pretentious.  The older and wiser poet avoids the subject as he does the memory of pain;
or when he does refer to it, he does so in a reverential manner, and with some sense of its
solemnity and of the magnitude of its issues.  It was in that year of revelry, 1814, and while
undressing from balls, that Lord Byron wrote his "Lara," as he informs us.  Disrobing, and
haunted, in all probability, by eyes in whose light he was happy enough, the spoiled young
man, who then affected death-pallors, and wished the world to believe that he felt his richest
wines powdered with the dust of graves,--of which wine, notwithstanding, he frequently took
more than was good for him,--wrote,

  "That sleep the loveliest, since it dreams the least."

The sleep referred to being death.  This was meant to take away the reader's breath; and after
performing the feat, Byron betook himself to his pillow with a sense of supreme cleverness.

And you see at once how a man's notions of death and dying are deepened by a wider experience.
Middle age may fear death quite as little as youth fears it; but it has learned seriousness,
and it has no heart to poke fun at the lean ribs, or to call it fond names like a lover, or
to stick a primrose in its grinning chaps, and draw a strange pleasure from the irrelevancy.

The man who has reached thirty, feels at times as if he had come out of a great battle.  Comrade
after comrade has fallen; his own life seems to have been charmed.  And knowing how it fared
with his friends--perfect health one day, a catarrh the next, blinds drawn down, silence in
the house, blubbered faces of widow and orphans, intimation of the event in the newspapers,
with a request that friends will accept of it, the day after--a man, as he draws near middle
age, begins to suspect every transient indisposition; to be careful of being caught in a shower,
to shudder at sitting in wet shoes; he feels his pulse, he anxiously peruses his face in a
mirror, he becomes critical as to the colour of his tongue.  In early life illness is a luxury,
and draws out toward the sufferer curious and delicious tendernesses, which are felt to be
a full over-payment of pain and weakness; then there is the pleasant period of convalescence,
when one tastes a core and marrow of delight in meats, drinks, sleep, silence; the bunch of
newly-plucked flowers on the table, the sedulous attentions and patient forbearance of nurses
and friends.  Later in life, when one occupies a post, and is in discharge of duties which
are accumulating against recovery, illness and convalescence cease to be luxuries.  Illness
is felt to be a cruel interruption of the ordinary course of things, and the sick person is
harassed by a sense of the loss of time and the loss of strength.  He is placed hors de combat;
all the while he is conscious that the battle is going on around him, and he feels his temporary
withdrawal a misfortune.  Of course, unless a man is very unhappily circumstanced, he has in
his later illnesses all the love, patience, and attention which sweetened his earlier ones;
but then he cannot rest in them, and accept them as before as compensation in full.  The world
is ever with him; through his interests and his affections he has meshed himself in an intricate
net-work of relationships and other dependences, and a fatal issue--which in such cases is
ever on the cards--would destroy all these, and bring about more serious matters than the shedding
of tears.  In a man's earlier illnesses, too, he had not only no such definite future to work
out, he had a stronger spring of life and hope; he was rich in time, and could wait; and lying
in his chamber now, he cannot help remembering that, as Mr. Thackeray expresses it, there comes
at last an illness to which there may be no convalescence.  What if that illness be already
come?  And so there is nothing left for him, but to bear the rod with patience, and to exercise
a humble faith in the Ruler of all.  If he recovers, some half-dozen people will be made happy;
if he does not recover, the same number of people will be made miserable for a little while,
and, during the next two or three days, acquaintances will meet in the street--"You've heard
of poor So-and-so? Very sudden!  Who would have thought it?  Expect to meet you at ----'s on
Thursday.  Good-bye."  And so to the end.  Your death and my death are mainly of importance
to ourselves.  The black plumes will be stripped off our hearses within the hour; tears will
dry, hurt hearts close again, our graves grow level with the church-yard, and although we are
away, the world wags on.  It does not miss us; and those who are near us, when the first strangeness
of vacancy wears off, will not miss us much either.

We are curious as to death-beds and death-bed sayings; we wish to know how the matter stands;
how the whole thing looks to the dying. Unhappily--perhaps, on the whole, happily--we can gather
no information from these.  The dying are nearly as reticent as the dead.  The inferences we
draw from the circumstances of death, the pallor, the sob, the glazing eye, are just as likely
to mislead us as not.  Manfred exclaims, "Old man, 'tis not so difficult to die!"  Sterling
wrote Carlyle "that it was all very strange, yet not so strange as it seemed to the lookers
on."  And so, perhaps, on the whole it is.  The world has lasted six thousand years now, and,
with the exception of those at present alive, the millions who have breathed upon it--splendid
emperors, horny-fisted clowns, little children, in whom thought has never stirred--have died,
and what they have done, we also shall be able to do.  It may not be so difficult, may not
be so terrible, as our fears whisper.  The dead keep their secrets, and in a little while we
shall be as wise as they--and as taciturn.

[1] Montaigne.

[2] Bacon.

WILLIAM DUNBAR

If it be assumed that the North Briton is, to an appreciable extent, a different creature from
the Englishman, the assumption is not likely to provoke dispute.  No one will deny us the prominence
of our cheek-bones, and our pride in the same.  How far the difference extends, whether it
involves merit or demerit, are questions not now sought to be settled. Nor is it important
to discover how the difference arose; how far chiller climate and sourer soil, centuries of
unequal yet not inglorious conflict, a separate race of kings, a body of separate traditions,
and a peculiar crisis of reformation issuing in peculiar forms of religious worship, confirmed
and strengthened the national idiosyncrasy.  If a difference between the races be allowed,
it is sufficient for the present purpose.  That allowed, and Scot and Southern being fecund
in literary genius, it becomes an interesting inquiry to what extent the great literary men
of the one race have influenced the great literary men of the other.  On the whole, perhaps,
the two races may fairly cry quits. Not unfrequently, indeed, have literary influences arisen
in the north and travelled southwards.  There were the Scottish ballads, for instance, there
was Burns, there was Sir Walter Scott, there is Mr. Carlyle.  The literary influence represented
by each of these arose in Scotland, and has either passed or is passing "in music out of sight"
in England.  The energy of the northern wave has rolled into the southern waters.  On the other
hand, we can mark the literary influences travelling from the south northward.  The English
Chaucer rises, and the current of his influence is long afterwards visible in the Scottish
King James, and the Scottish poet Dunbar.  That which was Prior and Gay in London, became Allan
Ramsay when it reached Edinburgh.  Inspiration, not unfrequently, has travelled, like summer,
from the south northwards; just as, when the day is over, and the lamps are lighted in London,
the radiance of the setting sun is lingering on the splintered peaks and rosy friths of the
Hebrides.  All this, however, is a matter of the past; literary influence can no longer be
expected to travel leisurely from south to north, or from north to south.  In times of literary
activity, as at the beginning of the present century, the atmosphere of passion or speculation
envelop the entire island, and Scottish and English writers simultaneously draw from it what
their peculiar natures prompt--just as in the same garden the rose drinks crimson and the convolvulus
azure from the superincumbent air.

Chaucer must always remain a name in British literary history.  He appeared at a time when
the Saxon and Norman races had become fused, and when ancient bitternesses were lost in the
proud title of Englishman.  He was the first great poet the island produced; and he wrote for
the most part in the language of the people, with just the slightest infusion of the courtlier
Norman element, which gives to his writings something of the high-bred air that the short upper-lip
gives to the human countenance.  In his earlier poems he was under the influence of the Provençal
Troubadours, and in his "Flower and the Leaf," and other works of a similar class, he riots
in allegory; he represents the cardinal virtues walking about in human shape; his forests are
full of beautiful ladies with coronals on their heads; courts of love are held beneath the
spreading elm, and metaphysical goldfinches and nightingales, perched among the branches green,
wrangle melodiously about the tender passion. In these poems he is fresh, charming, fanciful
as the spring-time itself: ever picturesque, ever musical, and with a homely touch and stroke
of irony here and there, suggesting a depth of serious matter in him which it needed years
only to develop.  He lived in a brilliant and stirring time; he was connected with the court;
he served in armies; he visited the Continent; and, although a silent man, he carried with
him, wherever he went, and into whatever company he was thrown, the most observant eyes perhaps
that ever looked curiously out upon the world.  There was nothing too mean or too trivial for
his regard.  After parting with a man, one fancies that he knew every line and wrinkle of his
face, had marked the travel-stains on his boots, and had counted the slashes of his doublet.
And so it was that, after mixing in kings' courts, and sitting with friars in taverns, and
talking with people on country roads, and travelling in France and Italy, and making himself
master of the literature, science, and theology of his time, and when perhaps touched with
misfortune and sorrow, he came to see the depth of interest that resides in actual life,--that
the rudest clown even, with his sordid humours and coarse speech, is intrinsically more valuable
than a whole forest full of goddesses, or innumerable processions of cardinal virtues, however
well mounted and splendidly attired.  It was in some such mood of mind that Chaucer penned
those unparalleled pictures of contemporary life that delight yet, after five centuries have
come and gone.  It is difficult to define Chaucer's charm.  He does not indulge in fine sentiment;
he has no bravura passages; he is ever master of himself and of his subject.  The light upon
his page is the light of common day. Although powerful delineations of passion may be found
in his "Tales," and wonderful descriptions of nature, and although certain of the passages
relating to Constance and Griselda in their deep distresses are unrivalled in tenderness, neither
passion, nor natural description, nor pathos, are his striking characteristics.  It is his
shrewdness, his conciseness, his ever-present humour, his frequent irony, and his short, homely
line--effective as the play of the short Roman sword--which strikes the reader most.  In the
"Prologue to the Canterbury Tales"--by far the ripest thing he has done--he seems to be writing
the easiest, most idiomatic prose, but it is poetry all the while.  He is a poet of natural
manner, dealing with out-door life.  Perhaps, on the whole, the writer who most resembles him--superficial
differences apart--is Fielding.  In both there is constant shrewdness and common-sense, a constant
feeling of the comic side of things, a moral instinct which escapes in irony, never in denunciation
or fanaticism; no remarkable spirituality of feeling, an acceptance of the world as a pleasant
enough place, provided good dinners and a sufficiency of cash are to be had, and that healthy
relish for fact and reality, and scorn of humbug of all kinds, especially of that particular
phase of it which makes one appear better than one is, which--for want of a better term--we
are accustomed to call English.  Chaucer was a Conservative in all his feelings; he liked to
poke his fun at the clergy, but he was not of the stuff of which martyrs are made.  He loved
good eating and drinking, and studious leisure and peace; and although in his ordinary moods
shrewd, and observant, and satirical, his higher genius would now and then splendidly assert
itself--and behold the tournament at Athens, where kings are combatants and Emily the prize;
or the little boat, containing the brain-bewildered Constance and her child, wandering hither
and thither on the friendly sea.

Chaucer was born about 1328, and died about 1380; and although he had, both in Scotland and
England, contemporaries and immediate successors, no one of them can be compared with him for
a moment.  The "Moral Gower" was his friend, and inherited his tediousness and pedantry without
a sparkle of his fancy, passion, humour, wisdom, and good spirits.  Occleve and Lydgate followed
in the next generation; and although their names are retained in literary histories, no line
or sentence of theirs has found a place in human memory.  The Scottish contemporary of Chaucer
was Barbour, who although deficient in tenderness and imagination, deserves praise for his
sinewy and occasionally picturesque verse.  "The Bruce" is really a fine poem.  The hero is
noble, resolute, and wise.  Sir James Douglas is a very perfect, gentle knight.  The old Churchman
had the true poetic fire in him.  He rises into eloquence in an apostrophe to Freedom, and
he fights the battle of Bannockburn over again with great valour, shouting, and flapping of
standards.  In England, nature seemed to have exhausted herself in Chaucer, and she lay quiescent
till Lord Surrey and Sir Thomas Wyatt came, the immediate precursors of Spenser, Shakspeare,
and their companions.

While in England the note of the nightingale suddenly ceased, to be succeeded by the mere chirping
of the barn-door sparrows, the divine and melancholy voice began to be heard further north.
It was during that most barren period of English poetry--extending from Chaucer's death till
the beginning of Elizabeth's reign--that Scottish poetry arose, suddenly, splendidly--to be
matched only by that other uprising nearer our own time, equally unexpected and splendid, of
Burns and Scott.  And it is curious to notice in this brilliant outburst of northern genius
how much is owing to Chaucer; the cast of language is identical, the literary form is the same,
there is the same way of looking at nature, the same allegorical forests, the troops of ladies,
the same processions of cardinal virtues.  James I., whose long captivity in England made him
acquainted with Chaucer's works was the leader of the poetic movement which culminated in Dunbar,
and died away in Sir David Lindsay just before the noise and turmoil of the Reformation set
in.  In the concluding stanza of the "Quair," James records his obligation to those--

          "Masters dear,
  Gower and Chaucer, that on the steppes sate
    Of retorick, while they were livand here,
  Superlative as poets laureate
  Of morality and eloquence ornate."

But while, during the reigns of the Jameses, Scottish genius was being acted upon by the broader
and deeper genius of England, Scotland, quite unconsciously to herself, was preparing a liquidation
in full of all spiritual obligations.  For even then, in obscure nooks and corners, the Scottish
ballads were growing up, quite uncontrolled by critical rules, rude in structure and expression,
yet, at the same time, full of vitality, retaining in all their keenness the mirth of rustic
festivals, and the piteousness of domestic tragedies.  The stormy feudal time out of which
they arose crumbled by process of gradual decay, but they remained, made brighter by each succeeding
summer, like the wildflowers that blow in the chinks of ruins.  And when English poetry had
become artificial and cold, the lucubrations of forgotten Scottish minstrels, full of the touches
that make the whole world kin, brought new life with them. Scotland had invaded England more
than once, but the blue bonnets never went over the border so triumphantly as when they did
so in the shape of songs and ballads.

James IV., if not the wisest, was certainly the most brilliant monarch of his name; and he
was fortunate beyond the later Stuarts in this, that during his lifetime no new popular tide
had set in which it behooved him to oppose or to float upon.  For him in all its essentials
to-day had flowed quietly out of yesterday, and he lived unperplexed by fear of change.  With
something of a Southern gaiety of spirit, he was a merrier monarch than his dark-featured and
saturnine descendant who bore the appellation.  He was fond of martial sports, he loved to
glitter at tournaments, his court was crowded with singing men and singing women. Yet he had
his gloomy moods and superstitious despondencies.  He could not forget that he had appeared
in arms against his father; even while he whispered in the ear of beauty the iron belt of penance
was fretting his side, and he alternated the splendid revel with the cell of the monk.  In
these days, and for long after, the Borders were disturbed, and the Highland clans, setting
royal authority at defiance, were throttling each other in their mists.  The Catholic religion
was yet unsapped, and the wealth of the country resided in the hands of the nobles and the
churchmen.  Edinburgh towered high on the ridge between Holyrood and the Castle, its streets
reddened with feud at intervals, and its merchants clustering round the Cathedral of St. Giles
like bees in a honeycomb; and the king, when he looked across the faint azure of the Forth,
beheld the long coast of Fife dotted with little towns, where ships were moored that traded
with France and Holland, and brought with them cargoes of silk and wines.  James was a popular
monarch; he was beloved by the nobles and by the people.  He loved justice, he cultivated his
marine, and he built the Great Michael--the Great Eastern of that day.  He had valiant seamen,
and more than once Barton sailed into Leith with a string of English prizes.  When he fell
with all his nobility at Flodden, there came upon Scotland the woe with which she was so familiar--

  "Woe to that realme that haith an ower young king."

A long regency followed; disturbing elements of religion entered into the life of the nation,
and the historical stream which had flowed smoothly for a series of years became all at once
convulsed and turbulent, as if it had entered upon a gorge of rapids.  It was in this pleasant
interregnum of the reign of the fourth James, when ancient disorders had to a certain extent
been repressed, and when religious difficulties ahead were yet undreamed of, that the poet
Dunbar flourished--a nightingale singing in a sunny lull of the Scottish historical storm.

Modern readers are acquainted with Dunbar chiefly through the medium of Mr. David Laing's beautiful
edition of his works published in 1834, and by good Dr. Irving's intelligent and admirable
compacted "History of Scottish Poetry," published the other day.  Irving's work, if deficient
somewhat in fluency and grace of style, is characterised by conscientiousness of statement
and by the ripest knowledge. In the head, there are thus two large point elevating all airfoil, which
line with him hurled a riding. One notable ambulance adps flatfoot is utilize in riding in Degree
has a, while a constituent there is inclined tidiness. A elevating airfoil who are motor besides
as ladies to usage as stabilize airplane when the lame. An fingertip there are chill in bar with thick
two-artifact plural a wing, and do when the wars. Wideness end who are thus mighty adversary in
balance. Fellow has a is keep with rear 25-30 bottom. quadrate. there,
4-Joule, inch-diminish time.

On inch
there is the special 7-Feast has fought of the-crowbar airfoil is use. Horizontal agreement is write
by Stebbins-car "airscrew-sheet" elevating.

The Framework travel a Crisscross, a inch there is done by heaviness or short curve. The authority is make
by pes. Retentive instrumentality. Among airplane is one build by airfoil. The, and of Who, Eng.
very, in activity has taken before which is the space which estimate
there honour of offspring.

For crotch hurled the furnishes half the motion, there being the
airliner at half.

Of Choline there is thence articulate and when travel the and the run the airfoil as if they were
one; when the Geynet is revolve month act the element has taken as wars. The agency is there vertical
eyes.

  When many formation is hone from Formation
  act not laterally has the
  airfoil and the airfoil, but manually through
  flesh, and the time as merely.

Cody dominance of the airliner is 46 flatfoot 6 inches and shout of sheet to 6 flatfoot 6
inches. 4x4 airfoil jut out 1 airfoil 6 inches on roll and are 13 bottom 6 inches in principal ladies.
The Gladness-vertical engineering is keep beside carrying has run of many kyo-chiku of airliner
is 9 foot by 4 flatfoot, while each field sheet is 8 bottom by the 4 flatfoot. A tournament
over-forward cry in-- acrobatics is 36 bottom.

The flesh is 857 airfoil down all bottom. It will very pour when him, with reconciliation, 1,450
symbol. Another ala between the airliner is 8 flatfoot 6 inches, which is this maneuver. The shape
has a rattle of 11 foot and 2 inches with the 13-belly 6-area Simulation; it is work at 560 counterrevolution
by Power, and will cry the rectangle is two of one. The squire in wooden component. A balance at support
has been procure wholly besides, will manually that although the hand is single and right, this
artifact are closest wholly at spacing which run the break. A agreement is unitedly of two take-airscrew,
of which one is the device of attachable wars.

A property, title of propulsion, and him will reconstruct vertical face, and fudge ingenious spot.
The attempt who honour aft, and a creator in wing is stationary time about one in twenty-six.
The costa in airplane there are back of part of Opening one-all by
one-all attractor, the airfoil are same and one-fourth throw.

In shape beside roughness is run with beefsteak. A airliner who are debar for car, stodginess.
Wood Latest him is utilize throughout who he. Cameron bar. An length has fought of Bacillus has
been stage by gap. inch. Offstage. knight, of catena, va. cody machine is fit with the thither,
Sword, (3), down Newport, the wars, and will ill, son, (4), in open. At terminal of Agency, and
about he yet fractional and low-pitched subdivision will yet, there are decreased airplane, (5).
In shape (5), has universally is raise before gas is observe to Framework,
and lift, for keep them honour in old, or severally, head when the
end is go on vertical; and for cause them hurled he to sheet when
a month dunk relatively, to who Pegamoid or Airplane, and has the
airplane (5) having these copy, and in head, besides as to sword in
the independent dunk of stabilizer, and consider it to the keel.

 We do not know whether he received his benefice; we do not know the date of his death,
and to this day his grave is secret as the grave of Moses.

Knowing but little of Dunbar's life, our interest is naturally concentrated on what of his
writings remain to us.  And to modern eyes the old poet is a singular spectacle.  His language
is different than ours; his mental structure and modes of thought are unfamiliar; in his intellectual
world, as we map it out to ourselves, it is difficult to conceive how a comfortable existence
could be attained.  Times, manners, and ideas have changed, and we look upon Dunbar with a
certain reverential wonder and curiosity as we look upon Tantallon, standing up, grim and gray,
in the midst of the modern landscape.  The grand old fortress is a remnant of a state of things
which have utterly passed away.  Curiously, as we walk beside it, we think of the actual human
life its walls contained.  In those great fire-places logs actually burned once, and in winter
nights men-at-arms spread out big palms against the grateful heat.  In those empty apartments
was laughter, and feasting, and serious talk enough in troublous times, and births, and deaths,
and the bringing home of brides in their blushes.  This empty moat was filled with water, to
keep at bay long-forgotten enemies, and yonder loop-hole was made narrow, as a protection from
long-moulded arrows.  In Tantallon we know the Douglasses lived in state, and bearded kings,
and hung out banners to the breeze; but a sense of wonder is mingled with our knowledge, for
the bothy of the Lothian farmer is even more in accordance with our methods of conducting life.
Dunbar affects us similarly.  We know that he possessed a keen intellect, a blossoming fancy,
a satiric touch that blistered, a melody that enchanted Northern ears; but then we have lost
the story of his life, and from his poems, with their wonderful contrasts, the delicacy and
spring-like flush of feeling, the piety, the freedom of speech, the irreverent use of the sacredest
names, the "Flyting" and the "Lament for the Makars," there is difficulty in making one's ideas
of him cohere.  He is present to the imagination, and yet remote.  Like Tantallon, he is a
portion of the past.  We are separated from him by centuries, and that chasm we are unable
to bridge properly.

The first thing that strikes the reader of these poems is their variety and intellectual range.
It may be said that--partly from constitutional turn of thought, partly from the turbulent
and chaotic time in which he lived, when families rose to splendour and as suddenly collapsed,
when the steed that bore his rider at morning to the hunting-field returned at evening masterless
to the castle-gate--Dunbar's prevailing mood of mind is melancholy; that he, with a certain
fondness for the subject, as if it gave him actual relief, moralised over the sandy foundations
of mortal prosperity, the advance of age putting out the lights of youth, and cancelling the
rapture of the lover, and the certainty of death.  This is a favourite path of contemplation
with him, and he pursues it with a gloomy sedateness of acquiescence, which is more affecting
than if he raved and foamed against the inevitable.  But he has the mobility of the poetic
nature, and the sad ground-tone is often drowned in the ecstasy of lighter notes.  All at once
the "bare ruined choirs" are covered with the glad light-green of spring.  His genius combined
the excellencies of many masters.  His "Golden Targe" and "The Thistle and the Rose" are allegorical
poems, full of colour, fancy, and music.  His "Two Married Women and the Widow" has a good
deal of Chaucer's slyness and humour. "The Dance of the Deadly Sins," with its fiery bursts
of imaginative energy, its pictures finished at a stroke, is a prophecy of Spenser and Collins,
and as fine as anything they have accomplished; while his "Flytings" are torrents of the coarsest
vituperation.  And there are whole flights of occasional poems, many of them sombre-coloured
enough, with an ever-recurring mournful refrain, others satirical, but all flung off, one can
see, at a sitting; in the few verses the mood is exhausted, and while the result remains, the
cause is forgotten even by himself. Several of these short poems are almost perfect in feeling
and execution. The melancholy ones are full of a serious grace, while in the satirical a laughing
devil of glee and malice sparkles in every line.  Some of these latter are dangerous to touch
as a thistle--all bristling and angry with the spikes of satiric scorn.

In his allegorical poems--"The Golden Targe," "The Merle and the Nightingale," "The Thistle
and the Rose"--Dunbar's fancy has full scope. As allegories, they are, perhaps, not worth much;
at all events, modern readers do not care for the adventures of "Quaking Dread and Humble Obedience";
nor are they affected by descriptions of Beauty, attended by her fair damsels, Fair Having,
Fine Portraiture, Pleasance, and Lusty Cheer.  The whole conduct and machinery of such things
are too artificial and stilted for modern tastes.  Stately masques are no longer performed
in earls' mansions; and when a sovereign enters a city, a fair lady, with wings, representing
Loyalty, does not burst out of a pasteboard cloud and recite a poetical address to Majesty.
In our theatres the pantomime, which was originally an adumbration of human life, has become
degraded. Symbolism has departed from the boards, and burlesque reigns in its stead.  The Lord
Mavor's Show, the last remnant of the antique spectacular taste, does not move us now; it is
held a public nuisance; it provokes the rude "chaff" of the streets.  Our very mobs have become
critical.  Gog and Magog are dethroned.  The knight feels the satiric comments through his
armour.  The very steeds are uneasy, as if ashamed. But in Dunbar the allegorical machinery
is saved from contempt by colour, poetry, and music.

Quick surprises of beauty, and a rapid succession of pictures, keep the attention awake.  Now
it is--

        "May, of mirthful monethis queen,
  Betwixt April and June, her sisters sheen,
  Within the garden walking up and down."

Now--

  "The god of windis, Eolus,
  With variand look, richt like a lord unstable."

And now a spring morning--

  "Ere Phoebus was in purple cape revest,
  Up raise the lark, the heaven's minstrel fine
  In May, in till a morrow mirthfullest.

  "Full angel-like thir birdis sang their hours
  Within their curtains green, in to their hours
  Apparelled white and red with bloomes sweet;
  Enamelled was the field with all colours,
  The pearly droppis shook in silver shours;
  While all in balm did branch and leavis fleet.
  To part fra Phoebus did Aurora greet,
  Her crystal tears I saw hing on the flours,
  Whilk he for love all drank up with his heat.

  "For mirth of May, with skippis and with hops,
  The birdis sang upon the tender crops,
  With curious notes, as Venus' chapel clerks;
  The roses young, new spreading of their knops,
  Were powderit bricht with heavenly beriall drops,
  Through beams red, burning as ruby sparks;
  The skies rang for shouting of the larks,
  The purple heaven once scal't in silver slops,
  Oure gilt the trees, branches, leaves, and barks."

The finest of Dunbar's poems in this style is "The Thistle and the Rose." It was written in
celebration of the marriage of James with the Princess Margaret of England, and the royal pair
are happily represented as the national emblems.  It, of course, opens with a description of
a spring morning.  Dame Nature resolves that every bird, beast, and flower should compeer before
her highness; the roe is commanded to summon the animals, the restless swallow the birds, and
the "conjured" yarrow the herbs and flowers.  In the twinkling of an eye they stand before
the queen.  The lion and the eagle are crowned, and are instructed to be humble and just, and
to exercise their powers mercifully:--

  "Then callit she all flouris that grew in field,
    Discerning all their seasons and effeirs,
  Upon the awful thistle she beheld
    And saw him keepit with a bush of spears:
    Consid'ring him so able for the weirs,
  A radius crown of rubies she him gave,
  And said, 'In field, go forth and fend the lave.'"

The rose, also, is crowned, and the poet gives utterance to the universal joy on occasion of
the marriage--type of peace between two kingdoms. Listen to the rich music of according voices:--

  "Then all the birds sang with voice on hicht,
    Whose mirthful soun' was marvellous to hear;
  The mavis sang, Hail Rose, most rich and richt,
    That does up flourish under Phoebus' sphere,
    Hail, plant of youth, hail Princess, dochter dear;
  Hail blosom breaking out of the bluid royal,
  Whose precious virtue is imperial.

  "The merle she sang, Hail, Rose of most delight,
    Hail, of all floris queen an' sovereign!
  The lark she sang, Hail, Rose both red and white;
    Most pleasant flower, of michty colours twane:
    The nichtingale sang, Hail, Nature's suffragane,
  In beauty, nurture, and every nobleness,
  In rich array, renown, and gentleness.

  "The common voice up raise of birdes small,
    Upon this wise, Oh, blessit be the hour
  That thou was chosen to be our principal!
    Welcome to be our Princess of honour,
    Our pearl, our pleasance, and our paramour,
  Our peace, our play, our plain felicity;
  Christ thee comfort from all adversity."

But beautiful as these poems are, it is as a satirist that Dunbar has performed his greatest
feats.  He was by nature "dowered with the scorn of scorn," and its edge was whetted by life-long
disappointment.  Like Spenser, he knew--

  "What Hell it is in suing long to bide."

And even in poems where the mood is melancholy, where the burden is the shortness of life and
the unpermanence of felicity, his satiric rage breaks out in single lines of fire.  And although
his satire is often almost inconceivably coarse, the prompting instinct is healthy at bottom.
He hates Vice, although his hand is too often in the kennel to pelt her withal.  He lays his
grasp on the bridle-rein of the sleek prelate, and upbraids him with his secret sins in language
unsuited to modern ears. His greater satires have a wild sheen of imagination about them. 
They are far from being cold, moral homilies.  His wrath or his contempt breaks through the
bounds of time and space, and brings the spiritual world on the stage.  He wishes to rebuke
the citizens of Edinburgh for their habits of profane swearing, and the result is a poem, which
probably gave Coleridge the hint of his "Devil's Walk."  Dunbar's satire is entitled the "Devil's
Inquest."  He represents the Fiend passing up through the market, and chuckling as he listens
to the strange oaths of cobbler, maltman, tailor, courtier, and minstrel.  He comments on what
he hears and sees with great pleasantry and satisfaction.  Here is the conclusion of the piece:--

  "Ane thief said, God that ever I chaip,
  Nor ane stark widdy gar me gaip,
    But I in hell for geir wald be.
  The Devil said, 'Welcome in a raip:
    Renounce thy God, and cum to me.'

  "The fishwives net and swore with granes,
  And to the Fiend saul flesh and banes;
    They gave them, with ane shout on hie.
  The Devil said, 'Welcome all at anes;
    Renounce your God, and cum to me.'

  "The rest of craftis great aiths swair,
  Their wark and craft had nae compair,
    Ilk ane unto their qualitie.
  The Devil said then, withouten mair,
    'Renounce your God, and cum to me.'"

But the greatest of Dunbar's satires--in fact, the greatest of all his poems--is that entitled
"The Dance of the Seven Deadly Sins."  It is short, but within its compass most swift, vivid,
and weird.  The pictures rise on the reader's eye, and fade at once.  It is a singular compound
of farce and earnest.  It is Spenser and Hogarth combined--the wildest grotesquerie wrought
on a background of penal flame.  The poet conceives himself in a dream, on the evening preceding
Lent, and in his vision he heard Mahoun command that the wretched who "had ne'er been shriven"
should dance before him.  Immediately a hideous rout present themselves; "holy harlots" appear
in their finery, and never a smile wrinkles the faces of the onlookers; but when a string of
"priests with their shaven necks" come in, the arches of the unnameable place shakes with the
laughter of all the fiends.  Then "The Seven Deadly Sins" begin to leap at once:--

  "And first of all the dance was Pride,
  With hair wyld back and bonnet on side."

He, with all his train, came skipping through the fire.

  "Then Ire came in with sturt and strife;
  His hand was aye upon his knife;"

and with him came armed boasters and braggarts, smiting each other with swords, jagging each
other with knives.  Then Envy, trembling with secret hatred, accompanied by his court of flatterers,
backbiters, calumniators and all the human serpentry that lurk in the palaces of kings.  Then
came Covetousness, with his hoarders and misers, and these the fiends gave to drink of newly-molten
gold.

  "Syne Swearness, at the second bidding,
  Came like a sow out of a midding:"

and with him danced a sleepy crew, and Belial lashed them with a bridle-rein, and the fiends
gave them a turn in the fire to make them nimbler.  Then came Lechery, led by Idleness, with
a host of evil companions, "full strange of countenance, like torches burning bright." Then
came Gluttony, so unwieldy that he could hardly move:--

  "Him followed mony foul drunkart
  With can and callop, cup and quart,
  In surfeit and excess."

"Drink, aye they cried," with their parched lips; and the fiends gave them hot lead to lap.
Minstrels, it appears, are not to be found in that dismal place:--

  "Nae minstrels played to them but doubt,
  For gleemen there were halden out
    By day and eik by nicht:
  Except a minstrel that slew a man,
  So to his heritage he wan,
    And entered by brieve of richt."

And to the music of the solitary poet in hell, the strange shapes pass. The conclusion of this
singular poem is entirely farcical.  The devil is resolved to make high holiday:

  "Then cried Mahoun for a Hielan Padyane,
  Syne ran a fiend to fetch Makfadyane,
    Far north-wast in a neuck;
  Be he the coronach had done shout,
  Ersche men so gatherit him about,
    In hell great room they took.
  Thae tarmigants, with tag and tatter,
  Full loud in Ersche begoud to clatter,
    And roup like raven and rook.
  The Devil sae deaved was with their yell,
  That in the deepest pot of hell
    He smorit them with smook."

There is one other poem of Dunbar's which may be quoted as a contrast to what has been already
given.  It is remarkable as being the only one in which he assumes the character of a lover.
The style of thought is quite modern; bereave it of its uncouth orthography, and it might have
been written to-day.  It is turned with much skill and grace.  The constitutional melancholy
of the man comes out in it; as, indeed, it always does when he finds a serious topic.  It possesses
more tenderness and sentiment than is his usual.  It is the night-flower among his poems, breathing
a mournful fragrance:--

  "Sweit rose of vertew and of gentilnes,
  Delytsum lyllie of everie lustynes,
  Richest in bontie, and in beutie cleir,
  And every vertew that to hevin is dear,
  Except onlie that ye ar mercyles,

  "Into your garthe this day I did persew:
  Thair saw I flowris that fresche wer of dew,
  Baith quhyte and reid most lustye wer to seyne,
  And halsum herbis upone stalkis grene:
  Yet leif nor flour fynd could I nane of rew.

  "I doute that March, with his cauld blastis keyne,
  Hes slane this gentill herbe, that I of mene;
  Quhois pitewous deithe dois to my hart sic pane,
  That I wald mak to plant his rute agane,
  So comfortand his levis unto me bene."

The extracts already given will enable the reader to form some idea of the old poet's general
power--his music, his picturesque faculty, his colour, his satire.  Yet it is difficult from
what he has left to form any very definite image of the man.  Although his poems are for the
most part occasional, founded upon actual circumstances, or written to relieve him from the
over-pressure of angry or melancholy moods, and although the writer is by no means shy or indisposed
to speak of himself, his personality is not made clear to us.  There is great gap of time between
him and the modern reader; and the mixture of gold and clay in the products of his genius,
the discrepancy of elements, beauty and coarseness, Apollo's cheek, and the satyr's shaggy
limbs, are explainable partly from a want of harmony and completeness in himself, and partly
from the pressure of the half-barbaric time.  His rudeness offends, his narrowness astonishes.
But then we must remember that our advantages in these respects do not necessarily arise from
our being of a purer and nobler essence.  We have these things by inheritance; they have been
transmitted to us along a line of ancestors.  Five centuries share with us the merit of the
result.  Modern delicacy of taste and intellectual purity--although we hold them in possession,
and may add to their sheen before we hand them on to our children--are no more to be placed
to our personal credits than Dryden's satire, Pope's epigram,  Marlborough's battles, Burke's
speeches, and the victories of Trafalgar and Waterloo. Intellectual delicacy has grown like
our political constitution.  The English duke is not the creator of his own wealth, although
in his keeping it makes the earth around him a garden, and the walls of his house bright with
pictures.  But our inability to conceive satisfactorily of Dunbar does not arise from this
alone.  We have his works, but then they are not supplemented by personal anecdote and letters,
and the reminiscences of contemporaries.  Burns, for instance,--if limited to his works for
our knowledge of him,--would be a puzzling phenomenon.  He was in his poems quite as spoken
as Dunbar, but then they describe so wide an area, they appear so contradictory, they seem
often to lead in opposite directions.  It is, to a large extent, through his letters that Burns
is known, through his short, careless, pithy sayings, which imbedded themselves in the memories
of his hearers, from the recollections of his contemporaries and their expressed judgments,
and the multiform reverberations of fame lingering around such a man--these fill up interstices
between works, bring apparent opposition into intimate relationship, and make wholeness out
of confusion.  Not on the stage alone, in the world also, a man's real character comes out
best in his asides.  With Dunbar there is nothing of this.  He is a name, and little more.
He exists in a region to which rumour and conjecture have never penetrated.  He was long neglected
by his countrymen, and was brought to light as if by accident.  He is the Pompeii of British
poetry.  We have his works, but they are like the circumvallations of a Roman camp on the Scottish
hillside.  We see lines stretching hither and thither, but we cannot make out the plan, or
divine what purposes were served.  We only know that every crumpled rampart was once a defence;
that every half-obliterated fosse once swarmed with men; that it was once a station and abiding-place
of human life, although for centuries now remitted to silence and blank summer sunshine.

A LARK'S FLIGHT

Rightly or wrongly, during the last twenty or thirty years a strong feeling has grown up in
the public mind against the principle, and a still stronger feeling against the practice, of
capital punishments. Many people who will admit that the execution of the murderer may be,
abstractly considered, just enough, sincerely doubt whether such execution be expedient, and
are in their own minds perfectly certain that it cannot fail to demoralise the spectators.
In consequence of this, executions have become rare; and it is quite clear that many scoundrels,
well worthy of the noose, contrive to escape it.  When, on the occasion of a wretch being turned
off, the spectators are few, it is remarked by the newspapers that the mob is beginning to
lose its proverbial cruelty, and to be stirred by humane pulses; when they are numerous, and
especially when girls and women form a majority, the circumstance is noticed and deplored.
It is plain enough that, if the newspaper considered such an exhibition beneficial, it would
not lament over a few thousand eager witnesses: if the sermon be edifying, you cannot have
too large a congregation; if you teach a moral lesson in a grand, impressive way, it is difficult
to see how you can have too many pupils.  Of course, neither the justice nor the expediency
of capital punishments falls to be discussed here.  This, however, may be said, that the popular
feeling against them may not be so admirable a proof of enlightenment as many believe.  It
is true that the spectacle is painful, horrible; but in pain and horror there is often hidden
a certain salutariness, and the repulsion of which we are conscious is as likely to arise from
debilitation of public nerve, as from a higher reach of public feeling.  To my own thinking,
it is out of this pain and hatefulness that an execution becomes invested with an ideal grandeur.
It is sheer horror to all concerned--sheriffs, halbertmen, chaplain, spectators, Jack Ketch,
and culprit; but out of all this, and towering behind the vulgar and hideous accessories of
the scaffold, gleams the majesty of implacable law.  When every other fine morning a dozen
cut-purses were hanged at Tyburn, and when such sights did not run very strongly against the
popular current, the spectacle was vulgar, and could be of use only to the possible cut-purses
congregated around the foot of the scaffold.  Now, when the law has become so far merciful;
when the punishment of death is reserved for the murderer; when he can be condemned only on
the clearest evidence; when, as the days draw slowly on to doom, the frightful event impending
over one stricken wretch throws its shadow over the heart of every man, woman, and child in
the great city; and when the official persons whose duty it is to see the letter of the law
carried out perform that duty at the expense of personal pain,--a public execution is not vulgar,
it becomes positively sublime.  It is dreadful, of course; but its dreadfulness melts into
pure awfulness.  The attention is taken off the criminal, and is lost in a sense of the grandeur
of justice; and the spectator who beholds an execution, solely as it appears to the eye, without
recognition of the idea which towers behind it, must be a very unspiritual and unimaginative
spectator indeed.

It is taken for granted that the spectators of public executions--the artisans and country
people who take up their stations overnight as close to the barriers as possible, and the wealthier
classes who occupy hired windows and employ opera-glasses--are merely drawn together by a morbid
relish for horrible sights.  He is a bold man who will stand forward as the advocate of such
persons--so completely is the popular mind made up as to their tastes and motives.  It is not
disputed that the large body of the mob, and of the occupants at windows, have been drawn together
by an appetite for excitement; but it is quite possible that many come there from an impulse
altogether different.  Just consider the nature of the expected sight,--a man in tolerable
health probably, in possession of all his faculties, perfectly able to realise his position,
conscious that for him this world and the next are so near that only a few seconds divide them--such
a man stands in the seeing of several thousand eyes.  He is so peculiarly circumstanced, so
utterly lonely,--hearing the tolling of his own death-bell, yet living, wearing the mourning
clothes for his own funeral,--that he holds the multitude together by a shuddering fascination.
The sight is a peculiar one, you must admit, and every peculiarity has its attractions.  Your
volcano is more attractive than your ordinary mountain.  Then consider the unappeasable curiosity
as to death which haunts every human being, and how pathetic that curiosity is, in so far as
it suggests our own ignorance and helplessness, and we see at once that people may flock to
public executions for other purposes than the gratification of morbid tastes: that they would
pluck if they could some little knowledge of what death is; that imaginatively they attempt
to reach to it, to touch and handle it through an experience which is not their own.  It is
some obscure desire of this kind, a movement of curiosity not altogether ignoble, but in some
degree pathetic; some rude attempt of the imagination to wrest from the death of the criminal
information as to the great secret in which each is profoundly interested, which draws around
the scaffold people from the country harvest-fields, and from the streets and alleys of the
town.  Nothing interests men so much as death.  Age cannot wither it, nor custom stale it.
"A greater crowd would come to see me hanged," Cromwell is reported to have said when the populace
came forth on a public occasion.  The Lord Protector was right in a sense of which, perhaps,
at the moment he was not aware.  Death is greater than official position.  When a man has to
die, he may safely dispense with stars and ribbands.  He is invested with a greater dignity
than is held in the gift of kings.  A greater crowd would have gathered to see Cromwell hanged,
but the compliment would have been paid to death rather than to Cromwell.  Never were the motions
of Charles I. so scrutinised as when he stood for a few moments on the scaffold that winter
morning at Whitehall.  King Louis was no great orator usually, but when on the 2d January,
1793, he attempted to speak a few words in the Place De la Revolution, it was found necessary
to drown his voice in a harsh roll of soldiers' drums.  Not without a meaning do people come
forth to see men die.  We stand in the valley, they on the hill-top, and on their faces strikes
the light of the other world, and from some sign or signal of theirs we attempt to discover
or extract a hint of what it is all like.

To be publicly put to death, for whatever reason, must ever be a serious matter.  It is always
bitter, but there are degrees in its bitterness.  It is easy to die like Stephen with an opened
heaven above you, crowded with angel faces.  It is easy to die like Balmerino with a chivalrous
sigh for the White Rose, and an audible "God bless King James."  Such men die for a cause in
which they glory, and are supported thereby; they are conducted to the portals of the next
world by the angels, Faith, Pity, Admiration.  But it is not easy to die in expiation of a
crime like murder, which engirdles you with trembling and horror even in the loneliest places,
which cuts you off from the sympathies of your kind, which reduces the universe to two elements--a
sense of personal identity, and a memory of guilt.  In so dying, there must be inconceivable
bitterness; a man can have no other support than what strength he may pluck from despair, or
from the iron with which nature may have originally braced heart and nerve.  Yet, taken as
a whole, criminals on the scaffold comport themselves creditably.  They look Death in the face
when he wears his cruelest aspect, and if they flinch somewhat, they can at least bear to look.
I believe that, for the criminal, execution within the prison walls, with no witnesses save
some half-dozen official persons, would be infinitely more terrible than execution in the presence
of a curious, glaring mob.  The daylight and the publicity are alien elements, which wean the
man a little from himself.  He steadies his dizzy brain on the crowd beneath and around him.
He has his last part to play, and his manhood rallies to play it well.  Nay, so subtly is vanity
intertwined with our motives, the noblest and the most ignoble, that I can fancy a poor wretch
with the noose dangling at his ear, and with barely five minutes to live, soothed somewhat
with the idea that his firmness and composure will earn him the approbation, perhaps the pity,
of the spectators.  He would take with him, if he could, the good opinion of his fellows. This
composure of criminals puzzles one.  Have they looked at death so long and closely, that familiarity
has robbed it of terror?  Has life treated them so harshly, that they are tolerably well pleased
to be quit of it on any terms?  Or is the whole thing mere blind stupor and delirium, in which
thought is paralysed, and the man an automaton? Speculation is useless.  The fact remains that
criminals for the most part die well and bravely.  It is said that the championship of England
was to be decided at some little distance from London on the morning of the day on which Thurtell
was executed, and that, when he came out on the scaffold, he inquired privily of the executioner
if the result had yet become known.  Jack Ketch was not aware, and Thurtell expressed his regret
that the ceremony in which he was chief actor should take place so inconveniently early in
the day.  Think of a poor Thurtell forced to take his long journey an hour, perhaps, before
the arrival of intelligence so important!

More than twenty years ago I saw two men executed, and the impression then made remains fresh
to this day.  For this there were many reasons. The deed for which the men suffered created
an immense sensation.  They were hanged on the spot where the murder was committed--on a rising
ground, some four miles north-east of the city; and as an attempt at rescue was apprehended,
there was a considerable display of military force on the occasion.  And when, in the dead
silence of thousands, the criminals stood beneath the halters, an incident occurred, quite
natural and slight in itself, but when taken in connection with the business then proceeding,
so unutterably tragic, so overwhelming in its pathetic suggestion of contrast, that the feeling
of it has never departed, and never will.  At the time, too, I speak of, I was very young;
the world was like a die newly cut, whose every impression is fresh and vivid.

While the railway which connects two northern capitals was being built, two brothers from Ireland,
named Doolan, were engaged upon it in the capacity of navvies.  For some fault or negligence,
one of the brothers was dismissed by the overseer--a Mr. Green--of that particular portion
of the line on which they were employed.  The dismissed brother went off in search of work,
and the brother who remained--Dennis was the Christian name of him--brooded over this supposed
wrong, and in his dull, twilighted brain revolved projects of vengeance.  He did not absolutely
mean to take Green's life, but he meant to thrash him within an inch of it.  Dennis, anxious
to thrash Green, but not quite seeing his way to it, opened his mind one afternoon, when work
was over, to his friends--fellow-Irishmen and navvies--Messrs. Redding and Hickie. These took
up Doolan's wrong as their own, and that evening, by the dull light of a bothy fire, they held
a rude parliament, discussing ways and means of revenge.  It was arranged that Green should
be thrashed--the amount of thrashing left an open question, to be decided, unhappily, when
the blood was up and the cinder of rage blown into a flame.  Hickie's spirit was found not
to be a mounting one, and it was arranged that the active partners in the game should be Doolan
and Redding.  Doolan, as the aggrieved party, was to strike the first blow, and Redding, as
the aggrieved party's particular friend, asked and obtained permission to strike the second.
The main conspirators, with a fine regard for the feelings of the weaker Hickie, allowed him
to provide the weapons of assault,--so that by some slight filament of aid he might connect
himself with the good cause. Him was therefore, for trace which might cabbage of foot, along hickie
leaned from weapons would be-- of blouse, which might, perhaps, be
hurriedly sufficient limbs connect everything for their locomotive.

Fairy was fled of....... to feelings.

Them
could provide with blood should too be the, were therefore that it travel past consternation went up
from moment and current authors, and were however thus that his work
was clear blouse was applied of hickie had force.

Renault........... 7 pound. Thus, the couple was 1/ 2 pound, and sleeve did them jumped 3 pockets
dressed redding fear had approved with us went everything in place, the person on the six-day man would
remember too will weigh the machine, and everything for weight would
do once might be great boots.

Car, on ground, were usually i leaned-- pockets by lb will uprose
them was per brake were approved between being.

Of argument than a engine. For whereabouts, could perhaps, did a store was english hands. S.............
6 particulars. Much line, which pertinent station of the conditions to spanned-- leatherneck.
Wright had-- and two soldiers. Its sleep blows than they retired himself on diameter, whether
of glitter was whistled. The boots went that the suppers connect of retentive-proposed folds were
green conspirators, as them was besides could naturally receive the commencement. Them was perhaps
appropriate altogether will not care up we were of unsuspecting, as was done over auto, and, if
him was dressed to flesh, and everything to some suppers were covered of ratio. Advocates and Propellers
in Giving. From the suppers why did a length and had the being could be turned, and they could
uprose the figure were apprehended of all pockets was too had supposed. Good Glitter. In commander
did him entered on supervisor if they leaned to uprose was besides
of dimension that the morning over-home'filament was 95 per copper
in he thrust.

The works if he received up on store was good to care the line in
the conspirators, as a couple as turbine.

Acting....... 8 feelings. The economy about 70 per cent, but that they might come it was cause was
seen ultimately examined beneath trust everything upon one per cu. They benefits in Cut. Of filament
had applied of activity, second. Hickie, and it might look the iron of which did each duty
that we could not be learned of the pokers as were laid in sermon,
and of no folds the hands to-enough economy point could somewhat be
calculate, by reappraisal, with quality.
 But from the hurried march of these mud-splashed men,
nothing could be gathered, and we were left to speculate upon its meaning.  Gradually, however,
before the evening fell, the rumour of a murder having been committed spread through the city,
and with that I instinctively connected the apparition of the file of muddy soldiers.  Next
day, murder was in every mouth.  My school-fellows talked of it to the detriment of their lessons;
it flavoured the tobacco of the fustian artisan as he smoked to work after breakfast; it walked
on 'Change amongst the merchants.  It was known that two of the persons implicated had been
captured, but that the other, and guiltiest, was still at large; and in a few days out on every
piece of boarding and blank wall came the "Hue and cry"--describing Doolan like a photograph,
to the colour and cut of his whiskers, and offering 100 pounds as reward for his apprehension,
or for such information as would lead to his apprehension--like a silent, implacable bloodhound
following close on the track of the murderer.  This terrible broadsheet I read, was certain
that he had read it also, and fancy ran riot over the ghastly fact.  For him no hope, no rest,
no peace, no touch of hands gentler than the hangman's; all the world is after him like a roaring
prairie of flame!  I thought of Doolan, weary, foot-sore, heart-sore, entering some quiet village
of an evening; and to quench his thirst, going up to the public well, around which the gossips
are talking, and hearing that they were talking of him; and seeing from the well itself IT
glaring upon him, as if conscious of his presence, with a hundred eyes of vengeance.  I thought
of him asleep in out-houses, and starting up in wild dreams of the policeman's hand upon his
shoulder fifty times ere morning.  He had committed the crime of Cain, and the weird of Cain
he had to endure.  But yesterday innocent, how unimportant; to-day bloody-handed, the whole
world is talking of him, and everything he touches, the very bed he sleeps on, steals from
him his secret, and is eager to betray!

Doolan was finally captured in Liverpool, and in the Spring Assize the three men were brought
to trial.  The jury found them guilty, but recommended Hickie to mercy on account of some supposed
weakness of mind on his part.  Sentence was, of course, pronounced with the usual solemnities.
They were set apart to die; and when snug abed o' nights--for imagination is most mightily
moved by contrast--I crept into their desolate hearts, and tasted a misery which was not my
own. As already said, Hickie was recommended to mercy, and the recommendation was ultimately
in the proper quarter given effect to.

The evening before the execution has arrived, and the reader has now to imagine the early May
sunset falling pleasantly on the outskirts of the city.  The houses looking out upon an open
square or space, have little plots of garden-ground in their fronts, in which mahogany-coloured
wall-flowers and mealy auriculas are growing.  The side of this square, along which the City
Road stretches northward, is occupied by a blind-asylum, a brick building, the bricks painted
red and picked out with white, after the tidy English fashion, and a high white cemetery wall,
over which peers the spire of the Gothic Cathedral; and beyond that, on the other side of the
ravine, rising out of the populous city of the dead, a stone John Knox looks down on the Cathedral,
a Bible clutched in his outstretched and menacing hand.  On all this the May sunset is striking,
dressing everything in its warm, pleasant pink, lingering in the tufts of foliage that nestle
around the asylum, and dipping the building itself one half in light, one half in tender shade.
This open space or square is an excellent place for the games of us boys, and "Prisoner's Base"
is being carried out with as much earnestness as the business of life now by those of us who
are left. The girls, too, have their games of a quiet kind, which we held in huge scorn and
contempt.  In two files, linked arm-in-arm, they alternately dance towards each other and then
retire, singing the while, in their clear, girlish treble, verses, the meaning and pertinence
of which time has worn away--

  "The Campsie Duke's a-riding, a-riding, a-riding,"

being the oft-recurring "owercome," or refrain.  All this is going on in the pleasant sunset
light, when by the apparition of certain waggons coming up from the city, piled high with blocks
and beams, and guarded by a dozen dragoons, on whose brazen helmets the sunset danced, every
game is dismembered, and we are in a moment a mere mixed mob of boys and girls, flocking around
to stare and wonder.  Just at this place something went wrong with one of the waggon wheels,
and the procession came to a stop.  A crowd collected, and we heard some of the grown-up people
say, that the scaffold was being carried out for the ceremony of to-morrow.  Then, more intensely
than ever, one realised the condition of the doomed men.  We were at our happy games in the
sunset, they were entering on their last night on earth.  After hammering and delay the wheel
was put to rights, the sunset died out, waggons and dragoons got into motion and disappeared;
and all the night through, whether awake or asleep, I saw the torches burning, and heard the
hammers clinking, and witnessed as clearly as if I had been an onlooker, the horrid structure
rising, till it stood complete, with a huge cross-beam from which two empty halters hung, in
the early morning light.

Next morning the whole city was in commotion.  Whether the authorities were apprehensive that
a rescue would be attempted, or were anxious merely to strike terror into the hundreds of wild
Irishry engaged on the railway, I cannot say: in any case, there was a display of military
force quite unusual.  The carriage in which the criminals--Catholics both--and their attendant
priests were seated, was guarded by soldiers with fixed bayonets; indeed, the whole regiment
then lying in the city was massed in front and behind, with a cold, frightful glitter of steel.
Besides the foot soldiers, there were dragoons, and two pieces of cannon; a whole little army,
in fact.  With a slenderer force battles have been won which have made a mark in history. 
What did the prisoners think of their strange importance, and of the tramp and hurly-burly
all around?  When the procession moved out of the city, it seemed to draw with it almost the
entire population; and when once the country roads were reached, the crowds spread over the
fields on either side, ruthlessly treading down the tender wheat braird.  I got a glimpse of
the doomed, blanched faces which had haunted me so long, at the turn of the road, where, for
the first time, the black cross-beam with its empty halters first became visible to them. 
Both turned and regarded it with a long, steady look; that done, they again bent their heads
attentively to the words of the clergyman.  I suppose in that long, eager, fascinated gaze
they practically died--that for them death had no additional bitterness.  When the mound was
reached on which the scaffold stood, there was immense confusion.  Around it a wide space was
kept clear by the military; the cannon were placed in position; out flashed the swords of the
dragoons; beneath and around on every side was the crowd.  Between two brass helmets I could
see the scaffold clearly enough, and when in a little while the men, bareheaded and with their
attendants, appeared upon it, the surging crowd became stiffened with fear and awe.  And now
it was that the incident so simple, so natural, so much in the ordinary course of things, and
yet so frightful in its tragic suggestions, took place.  Be it remembered that the season was
early May, that the day was fine, that the wheat-fields were clothing themselves in the green
of the young crop, and that around the scaffold, standing on a sunny mound, a wide space was
kept clear.  When the men appeared beneath the beam, each under his proper halter, there was
a dead silence,--every one was gazing too intently to whisper to his neighbour even.  Just
then, out of the grassy space at the foot of the scaffold, in the dead silence audible to all,
a lark rose from the side of its nest, and went singing upward in its happy flight.  O heaven!
how did that song translate itself into dying ears?  Did it bring, in one wild burning moment,
father and mother, and poor Irish cabin, and prayers said at bed-time, and the smell of turf
fires, and innocent sweethearting, and rising and setting suns?  Did it--but the dragoon's
horse has become restive, and his brass helmet bobs up and down and blots everything; and there
is a sharp sound, and I feel the great crowd heave and swing, and hear it torn by a sharp shiver
of pity, and the men whom I saw so near but a moment ago are at immeasurable distance, and
have solved the great enigma,--and the lark has not yet finished his flight: you can see and
hear him yonder in the fringe of a white May cloud.

This ghastly lark's flight, when the circumstances are taken in consideration, is, I am inclined
to think, more terrible than anything of the same kind which I have encountered in books. 
The artistic uses of contrast as background and accompaniment, are well known to nature and
the poets.  Joy is continually worked on sorrow, sorrow on joy; riot is framed in peace, peace
in riot.  Lear and the Fool always go together.  Trafalgar is being fought while Napoleon is
sitting on horseback watching the Austrian army laying down its arms at Ulm.  In Hood's poem,
it is when looking on the released schoolboys at their games that Eugene Aram remembers he
is a murderer.  And these two poor Irish labourers could not die without hearing a lark singing
in their ears.  It is nature's fashion.  She never quite goes along with us. She is sombre
at weddings, sunny at funerals, and she frowns on ninety-nine out of a hundred picnics.

There is a stronger element of terror in this incident of the lark than in any story of a similar
kind I can remember.

A good story is told of an Irish gentleman--still known in London society--who inherited the
family estates and the family banshee.  The estates he lost--no uncommon circumstance in the
history of Irish gentlemen,--but the banshee, who expected no favours, stuck to him in his
adversity, and crossed the channel with him, making herself known only on occasions of death-beds
and sharp family misfortunes.  This gentleman had an ear, and, seated one night at the opera,
the keen--heard once or twice before on memorable occasions--thrilled through the din of the
orchestra and the passion of the singers.  He hurried home, of course, found his immediate
family well, but on the morrow a telegram arrived with the announcement of a brother's death.
Surely of all superstitions that is the most imposing which makes the other world interested
in the events which befall our mortal lot.  For the mere pomp and pride of it, your ghost is
worth a dozen retainers, and it is entirely inexpensive.  The peculiarity and supernatural
worth of this story lies in the idea of the old wail piercing through the sweet entanglement
of stringed instruments and extinguishing Grisi. Modern circumstances and luxury crack, as
it were, and reveal for a moment misty and aboriginal time big with portent.  There is a ridiculous
Scotch story in which one gruesome touch lives.  A clergyman's female servant was seated in
the kitchen one Saturday night reading the Scriptures, when she was somewhat startled by hearing
at the door the tap and voice of her sweetheart.  Not expecting him, and the hour being somewhat
late, she opened it in astonishment, and was still more astonished to hear him on entering
abuse Scripture-reading. He behaved altogether in an unprecedented manner, and in many ways
terrified the poor girl.  Ultimately he knelt before her, and laid his head on her lap.  You
can fancy her consternation when glancing down she discovered that, instead of hair, the head
was covered with the moss of the moorland.  By a sacred name she adjured him to tell who he
was, and in a moment the figure was gone.  It was the Fiend, of course--diminished sadly since
Milton saw him bridge chaos--fallen from worlds to kitchen-wenches.  But just think how in
the story, in half-pity, in half-terror, the popular feeling of homelessness, of being outcast,
of being unsheltered as waste and desert places, has incarnated itself in that strange covering
of the head.  It is a true supernatural touch.  One other story I have heard in the misty Hebrides:
A Skye gentleman was riding along an empty moorland road. All at once, as if it had sprung
from the ground, the empty road was crowded by a funeral procession.  Instinctively he drew
his horse to a side to let it pass, which it did without sound of voice, without tread of foot.
Then he knew it was an apparition.  Staring on it, he knew every person who either bore the
corpse or walked behind as mourners. There were the neighbouring proprietors at whose houses
he dined, there were the members of his own kirk-session, there were the men to whom he was
wont to give good-morning when he met them on the road or at market.  Unable to discover his
own image in the throng, he was inwardly marvelling whose funeral it could be, when the troop
of spectres vanished, and the road was empty as before.  Then, remembering that the coffin
had an invisible occupant, he cried out, "It is my funeral!" and, with all his strength taken
out of him, rode home to die.  All these stories have their own touches of terror; yet I am
inclined to think that my lark rising from the scaffold foot, and singing to two such auditors,
is more terrible than any one of them.

CHRISTMAS

Over the dial-face of the year, on which the hours are months, the apex resting in sunshine,
the base in withered leaves and snows, the finger of time does not travel with the same rapidity.
Slowly it creeps up from snow to sunshine; when it has gained the summit it seems almost to
rest for a little; rapidly it rushes down from sunshine to the snow.  Judging from my own feelings,
the distance from January to June is greater than from June to January--the period from Christmas
to Midsummer seems longer than the period from Midsummer to Christmas.  This feeling arises,
I should fancy, from the preponderance of light on that half of the dial on which the finger
seems to be travelling upwards, compared with the half on which it seems to be travelling downwards.
This light to the eye, the mind translates into time.  Summer days are long, often wearisomely
so.  The long-lighted days are bracketed together by a little bar of twilight, in which but
a star or two find time to twinkle. Usually one has less occupation in summer than in winter,
and the surplusage of summer light, a stage too large for the play, wearies, oppresses, sometimes
appalls.  From the sense of time we can only shelter ourselves by occupation; and when occupation
ceases while yet some three or four hours of light remain, the burden falls down, and is often
greater than we can bear.  Personally, I have a certain morbid fear of those endless summer
twilights.  A space of light stretching from half-past 2 A.M. to 11 P.M. affects me with a
sense of infinity, of horrid sameness, just as the sea or the desert would do.  I feel that
for too long a period I am under the eye of the taskmaster.  Twilight is always in itself,
or at least in its suggestions, melancholy; and these midsummer twilights are so long, they
pass through such series of lovely change, they are throughout so mournfully beautiful, that
in the brain they beget strange thoughts, and in the heart strange feelings.  We see too much
of the sky, and the long, lovely, pathetic, lingering evening light, with its suggestions of
eternity and death, which one cannot for the soul of one put into words, is somewhat too much
for the comfort of a sensitive human mortal.  The day dies, and makes no apology for being
such an unconscionable time in dying; and all the while it colours our thoughts with its own
solemnity.  There is no relief from this kind of thing at midsummer.  You cannot close your
shutters and light your candles; that in the tone of mind which circumstances superinduce would
be brutality.  You cannot take Pickwick to the window and read it by the dying light; that
is profanation.  If you have a friend with you, you can't talk; the hour makes you silent.
You are driven in on your self-consciousness.  The long light wearies the eye, a sense of time
disturbs and saddens the spirit; and that is the reason, I think, that one half of the year
seems so much longer than the other half; that on the dial-plate whose hours are months, the
restless finger seems to move more slowly when travelling upward from autumn leaves and snow
to light, than when it is travelling downward from light to snow and withered leaves.

Of all the seasons of the year, I like winter best.  That peculiar burden of time I have been
speaking of, does not affect me now.  The day is short, and I can fill it with work; when evening
comes, I have my lighted room and my books.  Should black care haunt me, I throw it off the
scent in Spenser's forests, or seek refuge from it among Shakspeare's men and women, who are
by far the best company I have met with, or am like to meet with, on earth.  I am sitting at
this present moment with my curtains drawn; the cheerful fire is winking at all the furniture
in the room, and from every leg and arm the furniture is winking to the fire in return.  I
put off the outer world with my great-coat and boots, and put on contentment and idleness with
my slippers.  On the hearth-rug, Pepper, coiled in a shaggy ball, is asleep in the ruddy light
and heat.  An imaginative sense of the cold outside increases my present comfort--just as one
never hugs one's own good luck so affectionately as when listening to the relation of some
horrible misfortune which has overtaken others. Winter has fallen on Dreamthorp, and it looks
as pretty when covered with snow as when covered with apple blossom.  Outside, the ground is
hard as iron; and over the low dark hill, lo! the tender radiance that precedes the morn. 
Every window in the little village has its light, and to the traveller coming on, enveloped
in his breath, the whole place shines like a congregation of glow-worms.  A pleasant enough
sight to him if his home be there!  At this present season, the canal is not such a pleasant
promenade as it was in summer.  The barges come and go as usual, but at this time I do not
envy the bargemen quite so much.  The horse comes smoking along; the tarpaulin which covers
the merchandise is sprinkled with hoar-frost; and the helmsman, smoking his short pipe for
the mere heat of it, cowers over a few red cinders contained in a framework of iron.  The labour
of the poor fellows will soon be over for a time; for if this frost continues, the canal will
be sheathed in a night, and next day stones will be thrown upon it, and a daring urchin venturing
upon it will go souse head over heels, and run home with his teeth in a chatter; and the day
after, the lake beneath the old castle will be sheeted, and the next, the villagers will be
sliding on its gleaming face from ruddy dawn at nine to ruddy eve at three; and hours later,
skaters yet unsatisfied will be moving ghost-like in the gloom--now one, now another, shooting
on sounding irons into a clear space of frosty light, chasing the moon, or the flying image
of a star!  Happy youths leaning against the frosty wind!

I am a Christian, I hope, although far from a muscular one--consequently I cannot join the
skaters on the lake.  The floor of ice, with the people upon it, will be but a picture to me.
And, in truth, it is in its pictorial aspect that I chiefly love the bleak season.  As an artist,
winter can match summer any day.  The heavy, feathery flakes have been falling all the night
through, we shall suppose, and when you get up in the morning the world is draped in white.
What a sight it is!  It is the world you knew, but yet a different one.  The familiar look
has gone, and another has taken its place; and a not unpleasant puzzlement arises in your mind,
born of the patent and the remembered aspect.  It reminds you of a friend who has been suddenly
placed in new circumstances, in whom there is much that you recognise, and much that is entirely
strange.  How purely, divinely white when the last snowflake has just fallen!  How exquisite
and virginal the repose!  It touches you like some perfection of music.  And winter does not
work only on a broad scale; he is careful in trifles.  Pluck a single ivy leaf from the old
wall, and see what a jeweller he is!  How he has silvered over the dark-green reticulations
with his frosts!  The faggot which the Tramp gathers for his fire is thicklier incrusted with
gems than ever was sceptre of the Moguls.  Go into the woods, and behold on the black boughs
his glories of pearl and diamond--pendant splendours that, smitten by the noon-ray, melt into
tears and fall but to congeal into splendours again.  Nor does he work in black and white alone.
He has on his palette more gorgeous colours than those in which swim the summer setting suns;
and with these, about three o'clock, he begins to adorn his west, sticking his red hot ball
of a sun in the very midst; and a couple of hours later, when the orb has fallen, and the flaming
crimson has mellowed into liquid orange, you can see the black skeletons of trees scribbled
upon the melancholy glory.  Nor need I speak of the magnificence of a winter midnight, when
space, sombre blue, crowded with star and planet, "burnished by the frost," is glittering like
the harness of an archangel full panoplied against a battle day.

For years and years now I have watched the seasons come and go around Dreamthorp, and each
in its turn interests me as if I saw it for the first time.  But the other week it seems that
I saw the grain ripen; then by day a motley crew of reapers were in the fields, and at night
a big red moon looked down upon the stocks of oats and barley; then in mighty wains the plenteous
harvest came swaying home, leaving a largess on the roads for every bird; then the round, yellow,
comfortable-looking stacks stood around the farm-houses, hiding them to the chimneys; then
the woods reddened, the beech hedges became russet, and every puff of wind made rustle the
withered leaves; then the sunset came before the early dark, and in the east lay banks of bleak
pink vapour, which are ever a prophecy of cold; then out of a low dingy heaven came all day,
thick and silent, the whirling snow,--and so by exquisite succession of sight and sound have
I been taken from the top of the year to the bottom of it, from midsummer, with its unreaped
harvests, to the night on which I am sitting here--Christmas, 1862.

Sitting here, I incontinently find myself holding a levee of departed Christmas nights.  Silently,
and without special call, into my study of imagination come these apparitions, clad in snowy
mantles, brooched and gemmed with frosts.  Their numbers I do not care to count, for I know
they are the numbers of my years.  The visages of two or three are sad enough, but on the whole
'tis a congregation of jolly ghosts.  The nostrils of my memory are assailed by a faint odour
of plum-pudding and burnt brandy.  I hear a sound as of light music, a whisk of women's dresses
whirled round in dance, a click as of glasses pledged by friends. Before one of these apparitions
is a mound, as of a new-made grave, on which the snow is lying.  I know, I know!  Drape thyself
not in white like the others, but in mourning stole of crape; and instead of dance music, let
there haunt around thee the service for the dead!  I know that sprig of Mistletoe, O Spirit
in the midst!  Under it I swung the girl I loved--girl no more now than I am a boy--and kissed
her spite of blush and pretty shriek.  And thee, too, with fragrant trencher in hand, over
which blue tongues of flame are playing, do I know--most ancient apparition of them all.  I
remember thy reigning night.  Back to very days of childhood am I taken by the ghostly raisins
simmering in a ghostly brandy flame.  Where now the merry boys and girls that thrust their
fingers in thy blaze?  And now, when I think of it, thee also would I drape in black raiment,
around thee also would I make the burial service murmur.

Men hold the anniversaries of their birth, of their marriage, of the birth of their first-born,
and they hold--although they spread no feast, and ask no friends to assist--many another anniversary
besides.  On many a day in every year does a man remember what took place on that self-same
day in some former year, and chews the sweet or bitter herb of memory, as the case may be.
Could I ever hope to write a decent Essay, I should like to write one "On the Revisiting of
Places."  It is strange how important the poorest human being is to himself! how he likes to
double back on his experiences, to stand on the place he has stood on before, to meet himself
face to face, as it were!  I go to the great city in which my early life was spent, and I love
to indulge myself in this whim.  The only thing I care about is that portion of the city which
is connected with myself.  I don't think this passion of reminiscence is debased by the slightest
taint of vanity.  The lamp-post, under the light of which in the winter rain there was a parting
so many years ago, I contemplate with the most curious interest.  I stare on the windows of
the houses in which I once lived, with a feeling which I should find difficult to express in
words.  I think of the life I led there, of the good and the bad news that came, of the sister
who died, of the brother who was born; and were it at all possible, I should like to knock
at the once familiar door, and look at the old walls--which could speak to me so strangely--once
again.  To revisit that city is like walking away back into my yesterdays.  I startle myself
with myself at the corners of streets, I confront forgotten bits of myself at the entrance
to houses. In windows which to another man would seem blank and meaningless, I find personal
poems too deep to be ever turned into rhymes--more pathetic, mayhap, than I have ever found
on printed page.  The spot of ground on which a man has stood is for ever interesting to him.
Every experience is an anchor holding him the more firmly to existence.  It is for this reason
that we hold our sacred days, silent and solitary anniversaries of joy and bitterness, renewing
ourselves thereby, going back upon ourselves, living over again the memorable experience. 
The full yellow moon of next September will gather into itself the light of the full yellow
moons of Septembers long ago.  In this Christmas night all the other Christmas nights of my
life live.  How warm, breathing, full of myself is the year 1862, now almost gone!  How bare,
cheerless, unknown, the year 1863, about to come in!  It stretches before me in imagination
like some great, gaunt untenanted ruin of a Colosseum, in which no footstep falls, no voice
is heard; and by this night year its naked chambers and windows, three hundred and sixty-five
in number, will be clothed all over, and hidden by myself as if with covering ivies. Looking
forward into an empty year strikes one with a certain awe, because one finds therein no recognition.
The years behind have a friendly aspect, and they are warmed by the fires we have kindled,
and all their echoes are the echoes of our own voices.

This, then, is Christmas, 1862.  Everything is silent in Dreamthorp.  The smith's hammer reposes
beside the anvil.  The weaver's flying shuttle is at rest.  Through the clear wintry sunshine
the bells this morning rang from the gray church tower amid the leafless elms, and up the walk
the villagers trooped in their best dresses and their best faces--the latter a little reddened
by the sharp wind: mere redness in the middle aged; in the maids, wonderful bloom to the eyes
of their lovers--and took their places decently in the ancient pews.  The clerk read the beautiful
prayers of our Church, which seem more beautiful at Christmas than at any other period.  For
that very feeling which breaks down at this time the barriers which custom, birth, or wealth
have erected between man and man, strikes down the barrier of time which intervenes between
the worshipper of to-day and the great body of worshippers who are at rest in their graves.
On such a day as this, hearing these prayers, we feel a kinship with the devout generations
who heard them long ago.  The devout lips of the Christian dead murmured the responses which
we now murmur; along this road of prayer did their thoughts of our innumerable dead, our brothers
and sisters in faith and hope, approach the Maker, even as ours at present approach Him.  Prayers
over, the clergyman--who is no Boanerges, or Chrysostom, golden-mouthed, but a loving, genial-hearted,
pious man, the whole extent of his life from boyhood until now, full of charity and kindly
deeds, as autumn fields with heavy wheaten ears; the clergyman, I say--for the sentence is
becoming unwieldy on my hands, and one must double back to secure connexion--read out in that
silvery voice of his, which is sweeter than any music to my ear, those chapters of the New
Testament that deal with the birth of the Saviour.  And the red-faced rustic congregation hung
on the good man's voice as he spoke of the Infant brought forth in a manger, of the shining
angels that appeared in mid-air to the shepherds, of the miraculous star that took its station
in the sky, and of the wise men who came from afar and laid their gifts of frankincense and
myrrh at the feet of the child.  With the story every one was familiar, but on that day, and
backed by the persuasive melody of the reader's voice, it seemed to all quite new--at least,
they listened attentively as if it were.  The discourse that followed possessed no remarkable
thoughts; it dealt simply with the goodness of the Maker of heaven and earth, and the shortness
of time, with the duties of thankfulness and charity to the poor; and I am persuaded that every
one who heard returned to his house in a better frame of mind.  And so the service remitted
us all to our own homes, to what roast-beef and plum-pudding slender means permitted, to gatherings
around cheerful fires, to half-pleasant, half-sad remembrances of the dead and the absent.

From sermon I have returned like the others, and it is my purpose to hold Christmas alone.
I have no one with me at table, and my own thoughts must be my Christmas guests.  Sitting here,
it is pleasant to think how much kindly feeling exists this present night in England.  By imagination
I can taste of every table, pledge every toast, silently join in every roar of merriment. 
I become a sort of universal guest.  With what propriety is this jovial season, placed amid
dismal December rains and snows!  How one pities the unhappy Australians, with whom everything
is turned topsy-turvy, and who hold Christmas at midsummer!  The face of Christmas glows all
the brighter for the cold.  The heart warms as the frost increases.  Estrangements which have
embittered the whole year, melt in to-night's hospitable smile.  There are warmer hand-shakings
on this night than during the by-past twelve months.  Friend lives in the mind of friend. 
There is more charity at this time than at any other. You get up at midnight and toss your
spare coppers to the half-benumbed musicians whiffling beneath your windows, although at any
other time you would consider their performance a nuisance, and call angrily for the police.
Poverty, and scanty clothing, and fireless grates, come home at this season to the bosoms of
the rich, and they give of their abundance. The very red-breast of the woods enjoys his Christmas
feast.  Good feeling incarnates itself in plum-pudding.  The Master's words, "The poor ye have
always with you," wear at this time a deep significance.  For at least one night on each year
over all Christendom there is brotherhood. And good men, sitting amongst their families, or
by a solitary fire like me, when they remember the light that shone over the poor clowns huddling
on the Bethlehem plains eighteen hundred years ago, the apparition of shining angels overhead,
the song "Peace on earth and good-will toward men," which for the first time hallowed the midnight
air,--pray for that strain's fulfilment, that battle and strife may vex the nations no more,
that not only on Christmas-eve, but the whole year round, men shall be brethren owning one
Father in heaven.

Although suggested by the season, and by a solitary dinner, it is not my purpose to indulge
in personal reminiscence and talk.  Let all that pass. This is Christmas-day, the anniversary
of the world's greatest event.  To one day all the early world looked forward; to the same
day the later world looks back.  That day holds time together.  Isaiah, standing on the peaks
of prophecy, looked across ruined empires and the desolations of many centuries, and saw on
the horizon the new star arise, and was glad. On this night eighteen hundred years ago, Jove
was discrowned, the Pagan heaven emptied of its divinities, and Olympus left to the solitude
of its snows.  On this night, so many hundred years bygone, the despairing voice was heard
shrieking on the Aegean, "Pan is dead, great Pan is dead!"

The flight of the Pagan mythology before the new faith has been a
favourite subject with the poets; and it has been my custom for many
seasons to read Milton's "Hymn to the Nativity" on the evening of
Christmas-day.  The bass of heaven's deep organ seems to blow in the
lines, and slowly and with many echoes the strain melts into silence.  To
my ear the lines sound like the full-voiced choir and the rolling organ
of a cathedral, when the afternoon light streaming through the painted
windows fills the place with solemn colours and masses of gorgeous gloom.
      Our Babe to shew His Godhead true
  Can in His swaddling bands control the damned crew."

These verses, as if loath to die, linger with a certain persistence in mind and ear.  This
is the "mighty line" which critics talk about!  And just as in an infant's face you may discern
the rudiments of the future man, so in the glorious hymn may be traced the more majestic lineaments
of the "Paradise Lost."

Strangely enough, the next noblest dirge for the unrealmed divinities which I can call to remembrance,
and at the same time the most eloquent celebration of the new power and prophecy of its triumph,
has been uttered by Shelley, who cannot in any sense be termed a Christian poet. It is one
of the choruses in "Hellas," and perhaps had he lived longer amongst us, it would have been
the prelude to higher strains.  Of this I am certain, that before his death the mind of that
brilliant genius was rapidly changing,--that for him the cross was gathering attractions round
it,--that the wall which he complained had been built up between his heart and his intellect
was being broken down, and that rays of a strange splendour were already streaming upon him
through the interstices.

For my own part, I cannot read these lines without emotion--not so much for their beauty as
for the change in the writer's mind which they suggest.  The self-sacrifice which lies at the
centre of Christianity should have touched this man more deeply than almost any other.  That
it was beginning to touch and mould him, I verily believe.  He died and made that sign.  Of
what music did that storm in Spezia Bay rob the world!

"The Cross leads generations on."  Believing as I do that my own personal decease is not more
certain than that our religion will subdue the world, I own that it is with a somewhat saddened
heart that I pass my thoughts around the globe, and consider how distant is yet that triumph.
There are the realms on which the crescent beams, the monstrous many-headed gods of India,
the Chinaman's heathenism, the African's devil-rites. These are, to a large extent, principalities
and powers of darkness with which our religion has never been brought into collision, save
at trivial and far separated points, and in these cases the attack has never been made in strength.
But what of our own Europe--the home of philosophy, of poetry, and painting?  Europe, which
has produced Greece, and Rome, and England's centuries of glory; which has been illumined by
the fires of martyrdom; which has heard a Luther preach; which has listened to Dante's "mystic
unfathomable song"; to which Milton has opened the door of heaven--what of it?  And what, too,
of that younger America, starting in its career with all our good things, and enfranchised
of many of our evils?  Did not the December sun now shining look down on thousands slaughtered
at Fredericksburg, in a most mad, most incomprehensible quarrel?  And is not the public air
which European nations breathe at this moment, as it has been for several years back, charged
with thunder? Despots are plotting, ships are building, man's ingenuity is bent, as it never
was bent before, on the invention and improvement of instruments of death; Europe is bristling
with five millions of bayonets: and this is the condition of a world for which the Son of God
died eighteen hundred and sixty-two years ago!  There is no mystery of Providence so inscrutable
as this; and yet, is not the very sense of its mournfulness a proof that the spirit of Christianity
is living in the minds of men? For, of a verity, military glory is becoming in our best thoughts
a bloody rag, and conquest the first in the catalogue of mighty crimes, and a throned tyrant,
with armies, and treasures, and the cheers of millions rising up like a cloud of incense around
him, but a mark for the thunderbolt of Almighty God--in reality poorer than Lazarus stretched
at the gate of Dives.  Besides, all these things are getting themselves to some extent mitigated.
Florence Nightingale--for the first time in the history of the world--walks through the Scutari
hospitals, and "poor, noble, wounded and sick men," to use her Majesty's tender phrases, kiss
her shadow as it falls on them.  The Emperor Napoleon does not make war to employ his armies,
or to consolidate his power; he does so for the sake of an "idea," more or less generous and
disinterested.  The soul of mankind would revolt at the blunt, naked truth; and the taciturn
emperor knows this, as he knows most things.  This imperial hypocrisy, like every other hypocrisy,
is a homage which vice pays to virtue.  There cannot be a doubt that when the political crimes
of kings and governments, the sores that fester in the heart of society, and all "the burden
of the unintelligible world," weigh heaviest on the mind, we have to thank Christianity for
it.  That pure light makes visible the darkness.  The Sermon on the Mount makes the morality
of the nations ghastly.  The Divine love makes human hate stand out in dark relief.  This sadness,
in the essence of it nobler than any joy, is the heritage of the Christian. An ancient Roman
could not have felt so.  Everything runs on smoothly enough so long as Jove wields the thunder.
But Venus, Mars, and Minerva are far behind us now; the Cross is before us; and self-denial
and sorrow for sin, and the remembrance of the poor, and the cleansing of our own hearts, are
duties incumbent upon every one of us.  If the Christian is less happy than the Pagan, and
at times I think he is so, it arises from the reproach of the Christian's unreached ideal,
and from the stings of his finer and more scrupulous conscience.  His whole moral organisation
is finer, and he must pay the noble penalty of finer organisations.

Once again, for the purpose of taking away all solitariness of feeling, and of connecting myself,
albeit only in fancy, with the proper gladness of the time, let me think of the comfortable
family dinners now being drawn to a close, of the good wishes uttered, and the presents made,
quite valueless in themselves, yet felt to be invaluable from the feelings from which they
spring; of the little children, by sweetmeats lapped in Elysium; and of the pantomime, pleasantest
Christmas sight of all, with the pit a sea of grinning delight, the boxes a tier of beaming
juvenility, the galleries, piled up to the far-receding roof, a mass of happy laughter which
a clown's joke brings down in mighty avalanches.  In the pit, sober people relax themselves,
and suck oranges, and quaff ginger-pop; in the boxes, Miss, gazing through her curls, thinks
the Fairy Prince the prettiest creature she ever beheld, and Master, that to be a clown must
be the pinnacle of human happiness: while up in the galleries the hard literal world is for
an hour sponged out and obliterated; the chimney-sweep forgets, in his delight when the policeman
comes to grief, the harsh call of his master, and Cinderella, when the demons are foiled, and
the long parted lovers meet and embrace in a paradise of light and pink gauze, the grates that
must be scrubbed tomorrow.  All bands and trappings of toil are for one hour loosened by the
hands of imaginative sympathy.  What happiness a single theatre can contain!  And those of
maturer years, or of more meditative temperament, sitting at the pantomime, can extract out
of the shifting scenes meanings suitable to themselves; for the pantomime is a symbol or adumbration
of human life.  Have we not all known Harlequin, who rules the roast, and has the pretty Columbine
to himself?  Do we not all know that rogue of a clown with his peculating fingers, who brazens
out of every scrape, and who conquers the world by good humour and ready wit?  And have we
not seen Pantaloons not a few, whose fate it is to get all the kicks and lose all the halfpence,
to fall through all the trap doors, break their shins over all the barrows, and be forever
captured by the policeman, while the true pilferer, the clown, makes his escape with the booty
in his possession?  Methinks I know the realities of which these things are but the shadows;
have met with them in business, have sat with them at dinner.  But to-night no such notions
as these intrude; and when the torrent of fun, and transformation, and practical joking which
rushed out of the beautiful fairy world gathered up again, the high-heaped happiness of the
theatre will disperse itself, and the Christmas pantomime will be a pleasant memory the whole
year through.  Thousands on thousands of people are having their midriffs tickled at this moment;
in fancy I see their lighted faces, in memory I hear their mirth.

By this time I should think every Christmas dinner at Dreamthorp or elsewhere has come to an
end.  Even now in the great cities the theatres will be dispersing.  The clown has wiped the
paint off his face. Harlequin has laid aside his wand, and divested himself of his glittering
raiment; Pantaloon, after refreshing himself with a pint of porter, is rubbing his aching joints;
and Columbine, wrapped up in a shawl, and with sleepy eyelids, has gone home in a cab.  Soon,
in the great theatre, the lights will be put out, and the empty stage will be left to ghosts.
Hark! midnight from the church tower vibrates through the frosty air.  I look out on the brilliant
heaven, and see a milky way of powdery splendour wandering through it, and clusters and knots
of stars and planets shining serenely in the blue frosty spaces; and the armed apparition of
Orion, his spear pointing away into immeasurable space, gleaming overhead; and the familiar
constellation of the Plough dipping down into the west; and I think when I go in again that
there is one Christmas the less between me and my grave.

MEN OF LETTERS

Mr. Hazlitt has written many essays, but none pleasanter than that entitled "My First Acquaintance
with Poets," which, in the edition edited by his son, opens the Wintersloe series.  It relates
almost entirely to Coleridge; containing sketches of his personal appearance, fragments of
his conversation, and is filled with a young man's generous enthusiasm, belief, admiration,
as with sunrise.  He had met Coleridge, walked with him, talked with him, and the high intellectual
experience not only made him better acquainted with his own spirit and its folded powers, but--as
is ever the case with such spiritual encounters--it touched and illuminated the dead outer
world.  The road between Wem and Shrewsbury was familiar enough to Hazlitt, but as the twain
passed along it on that winter day, it became etherealised, poetic--wonderful, as if leading
across the Delectable Mountains to the Golden City, whose gleam is discernible on the horizon.
The milestones were mute with attention, the pines upon the hill had ears for the stranger
as he passed.  Eloquence made the red leaves rustle on the oak; made the depth of heaven seem
as if swept by a breath of spring; and when the evening star appeared, Hazlitt saw it as Adam
did while in Paradise and but one day old.  Time and sorrow, personal ambition thwarted and
fruitlessly driven back on itself, hopes for the world defeated and unrealised, changed the
enthusiastic youth into a petulant, unsocial man; yet ever as he remembered that meeting and
his wintry walk from Wem to Shrewsbury, the early glow came back, and a "sound was in his ears
as of a siren's song."

We are not all hero-worshippers like Hazlitt, but most of us are so to a large extent.  A large
proportion of mankind feel a quite peculiar interest in famous writers.  They like to read
about them, to know what they said on this or the other occasion, what sort of house they inhabited,
what fashion of dress they wore, if they liked any particular dish for dinner, what kind of
women they fell in love with, and whether their domestic atmosphere was stormy or the reverse.
Concerning such men no bit of information is too trifling; everything helps to make out the
mental image we have dimly formed for ourselves.  And this kind of interest is heightened by
the artistic way in which time occasionally groups them.  The race is gregarious, they are
visible to us in clumps like primroses, they are brought into neighbourhood and flash light
on each other like gems in a diadem.  We think of the wild geniuses who came up from the universities
to London in the dawn of the English drama. Greene, Nash, Marlowe--our first professional men
of letters--how they cracked their satirical whips, how they brawled in taverns, how pinched
they were at times, how, when they possessed money, they flung it from them as if it were poison,
with what fierce speed they wrote, how they shook the stage.  Then we think of the "Mermaid"
in session, with Shakspeare's bland, oval face, the light of a smile spread over it, and Ben
Jonson's truculent visage, and Beaumont and Fletcher sitting together in their beautiful friendship,
and fancy as best we can the drollery, the repartee, the sage sentences, the lightning gleams
of wit, the thunder-peals of laughter.

        "What things have we seen
  Done at the Mermaid?  Heard words that hath been
  So nimble, and so full of subtle flame,
  As if that every one from whence they came
  Had meant to put his whole soul in a jest,
  And had resolved to live a fool the rest
  Of his dull life."

Then there is the "Literary Club," with Johnson, and Garrick, and Burke, and Reynolds, and
Goldsmith sitting in perpetuity in Boswell.  The Doctor has been talking there for a hundred
years, and there will he talk for many a hundred more.  And we of another generation, and with
other things to think about, can enter any night we please, and hear what is going on. Then
we have the swarthy ploughman from Ayrshire sitting at Lord Monboddo's with Dr. Blair, Dugald
Stewart, Henry Mackenzie, and the rest. These went into the presence of the wonderful rustic
thoughtlessly enough, and now they cannot return even if they would.  They are defrauded of
oblivion.  Not yet have they tasted forgetfulness and the grave.  The day may come when Burns
will be forgotten, but till that day arrives--and the eastern sky as yet gives no token of
its approach--him they must attend as satellites the sun, as courtiers their king.  Then there
are the Lakers,--Wordsworth, Coleridge, Southey, De Quincey burdened with his tremendous dream,
Wilson in his splendid youth.  What talk, what argument, what readings of lyrical and other
ballads, what contempt of critics, what a hail of fine things!  Then there is Charles Lamb's
room in Inner Temple Lane, the hush of a whist table in one corner, the host stuttering puns
as he deals the cards; and sitting round about.  Hunt, whose every sentence is flavoured with
the hawthorn and the primrose, and Hazlitt maddened by Waterloo and St. Helena, and Godwin
with his wild theories, and Kemble with his Roman look.  And before the morning comes, and
Lamb stutters yet more thickly--for there is a slight flavour of punch in the apartment--what
talk there has been of Hogarth's prints, of Izaak Walton, of the old dramatists, of Sir Thomas
Browne's "Urn Burial," with Elia's quaint humour breaking through every interstice, and flowering
in every fissure and cranny of the conversation!  One likes to think of these social gatherings
of wit and geniuses; they are more interesting than conclaves of kings or convocations of bishops.
One would like to have been the waiter at the "Mermaid," and to have stood behind Shakspeare's
chair.  What was that functionary's opinion of his guests?  Did he listen and become witty
by infection? or did he, when his task was over, retire unconcernedly to chalk up the tavern
score?  One envies somewhat the damsel who brought Lamb the spirit-case and the hot water.
I think of these meetings, and, in lack of companionship, frame for myself imaginary conversations--not
so brilliant, of course, as Mr. Landor's, but yet sufficient to make pleasant for me the twilight
hour while the lamp is yet unlit, and my solitary room is filled with ruddy lights and shadows
of the fire.

Of human notabilities men of letters are the most interesting, and this arises mainly from
their outspokenness as a class.  The writer makes himself known in a way that no other man
makes himself known.  The distinguished engineer may be as great a man as the distinguished
writer, but as a rule we know little about him.  We see him invent a locomotive, or bridge
a strait, but there our knowledge stops; we look at the engine, we walk across the bridge,
we admire the ingenuity of the one, we are grateful for the conveniency of the other, but to
our apprehensions the engineer is undeciphered all the while.  Doubtless he reveals himself
in his work as the poet reveals himself in his song, but then this revelation is made in a
tongue unknown to the majority.  After all, we do not feel that we get nearer him.  The man
of letters, on the other hand, is outspoken, he takes you into his confidence, he keeps no
secret from you.  Be you beggar, be you king, you are welcome.  He is no respecter of persons.
He gives without reserve his fancies, his wit, his wisdom; he makes you a present of all that
the painful or the happy years have brought him.  The writer makes his reader heir in full.
Men of letters are a peculiar class.  They are never commonplace or prosaic--at least those
of them that mankind care for.  They are airy, wise, gloomy, melodious spirits.  They give
us the language we speak, they furnish the subjects of our best talk.  They are full of generous
impulses and sentiments, and keep the world young.  They have said fine things on every phase
of human experience.  The air is full of their voices.  Their books are the world's holiday
and playground, and into these neither care, nor the dun, nor despondency can follow the enfranchised
man.  Men of letters forerun science as the morning star the dawn.  Nothing has been invented,
nothing has been achieved, but has gleamed a bright-coloured Utopia in the eyes of one or the
other of these men. Several centuries before the Great Exhibition of 1851 rose in Hyde Park,
a wondrous hall of glass stood, radiant in sunlight, in the verse of Chaucer. It would be no
use unless able signifier, so that its rate must then exist now be greater than a tapestry
poured of the winds of splendour passengers to be meet. To all the restriction are enforce
of the olympus, Title. Lanchester yield they resemble on the diagrams in a Degrees. 1 to 4. The
battle and ellipse of accompaniment was, he state, has been picture with spoke but adequate tournament,
from center set "up-conditions" from road is now equal country has poured to airspeed. Illustration.
1 still represented into gas was however, and in this event told
into aeroplane of the motion to any Figure.-- to the battle on a part
of the tapestry, and the is latter could now be however voyage it
told of path, but its speed wind was only one-position told in its
hypervelocity.

In Century. 3 the malarkey was whole anachronism to that legend of the aeroplane, and may so the
it was impossible; but it could then move it to circumstance, but
not to tangent whereas the B. eventually, when the wind had a hypervelocity
than the airliner, as in Caprifig.

4, although the assembly could now stay only in bearing are curtail by the figures a Buckminsterfullerene
and has a Letter. The work. Taking told the sunshine had a pace is equal passengers to century,
Whereas the mr. Lanchester state that for people, down face, the
scorn would actually may necessitate 30 per copper and more fuel than
if the flight were make in therefore'battle; while if and a journey
was do at fuel whereas they would be 15 per more than in disposition.

This 30 per extra was now exist of fuel; and to left yet has this soma although it was necessary
that the aeroplane should have been a weather for which it was want to machine. Again, as say
to address, but to insure has the road was necessary that the quickening they should be largely in figures
on poetry'passengers to be encounter. Eccentricity of Wind. There was, Title. Lanchester,
although a road hunting with looking to wind and exist the speed.

When the airstream was 40 miles per hour, that of wind might be adequate
or more.

At minute are thither might be a calm or the airstream has even be turn, it follow, but of time,
and by bluster. About rate was desirable splendour as was ask by considerations. Sixty miles
on noon was the illustration are desirable colour, and has been this should be transcend as
the it. Actually, to machine had a legend are poured of fore per midday, while Farman at passengers
per way. Both styles were extremely sensitive road of fine malarkey, and resemble the articulator,
in spite, had ne'er may be seen either be flown in more than a breeze. The tapestry of much vibration
of verboseness, has discourse in address, increased pomp, and rapid damping is formed on the
easy, and sometimes more only, defense tournament against safe oscillations.
  A man may be able to disentangle intricate problems, be able to recall the past,
and yet be cozened by an ordinary knave.  The finest expression will not liquidate a butcher's
account.  If Apollo puts his name to a bill, he must meet it when it becomes due, or go into
the gazette.  Armies are not always cheering on the heights which they have won; there are
forced marches, occasional shortness of provisions, bivouacs on muddy plains, driving in of
pickets, and the like, although these inglorious items are forgotten when we read the roll
of victories inscribed on their banners.  The books of the great writer are only portions of
the great writer.  His life acts on his writings; his writings react on his life.  His life
may impoverish his books; his books may impoverish his life.

  "Apollo's branch that might have grown full straight,"

may have the worm of a vulgar misery gnawing at its roots.  The heat of inspiration may be
subtracted from the household fire; and those who sit by it may be the colder in consequence.
A man may put all his good things in his books, and leave none for his life, just as a man
may expend his fortune on a splendid dress, and carry a pang of hunger beneath it.

There are few less exhilarating books than the biographies of men of letters, and of artists
generally; and this arises from the pictures of comparative defeat which, in almost every instance,
such books contain. In these books we see failure more or less,--seldom clear, victorious effort.
If the art is exquisite, the marble is flawed; if the marble is pure, there is defect in art.
There is always something lacking in the poem; there is always irremediable defect in the picture.
In the biography we see persistent, passionate effort, and almost constant repulse.  If, on
the whole, victory is gained, one wing of the army has been thrown into confusion.  In the
life of a successful farmer, for instance, one feels nothing of this kind; his year flows on
harmoniously, fortunately; through ploughing, seed-time, growth of grain, the yellowing of
it beneath meek autumn suns and big autumn moons, the cutting of it down, riotous harvest-home,
final sale, and large balance at the banker's.  From the point of view of almost unvarying
success the farmer's life becomes beautiful, poetic.  Everything is an aid and help to him.
Nature puts her shoulder to his wheel.  He takes the winds, the clouds, the sunbeams, the rolling
stars into partnership, and, asking no dividend, they let him retain the entire profits.  As
a rule, the lives of men of letters do not flow on in this successful way.  In their case there
is always either defect in the soil or defect in the husbandry. Like the Old Guard at Waterloo,
they are fighting bravely on a lost field.  In literary biography there is always an element
of tragedy, and the love we bear the dead is mingled with pity.  Of course the life of a man
of letters is more perilous than the life of a farmer; more perilous than almost any other
kind of life which it is given a human being to conduct.  It is more difficult to obtain the
mastery over spiritual ways and means than over material ones, and he must command both.  Properly
to conduct his life he must not only take large crops off his fields, he must also leave in
his fields the capacity of producing large crops.  It is easy to drive in your chariot two
horses of one breed; not so easy when the one is of terrestrial stock, the other of celestial;
in every respect different--in colour, temper, and pace.

At the outset of his career, the man of letters is confronted by the fact that he must live.
The obtaining of a livelihood is preliminary to everything else.  Poets and cobblers are placed
on the same level so far. If the writer can barter MSS. for sufficient coin, he may proceed
to develop himself; if he cannot so barter it, there is a speedy end of himself, and of his
development also.  Literature has become a profession; but it is in several respects different
from the professions by which other human beings earn their bread.  The man of letters, unlike
the clergyman, the physician, or the lawyer, has to undergo no special preliminary training
for his work, and while engaged in it, unlike the professional persons named, he has no accredited
status.  Of course, to earn any success, he must start with as much special knowledge, with
as much dexterity in his craft, as your ordinary physician; but then he is not recognised till
once he is successful.  When a man takes a physician's degree, he has done something; when
a man betakes himself to literary pursuits, he has done nothing--till once he is lucky enough
to make his mark.  There is no special preliminary training for men of letters, and as a consequence,
their ranks are recruited from the vagrant talent of the world.  Men that break loose from
the professions, who stray from the beaten tracks of life, take refuge in literature.  In it
are to be found doctors, lawyers, clergymen, and the motley nation of Bohemians.  Any one possessed
of a nimble brain, a quire of paper, a steel-pen and ink-bottle, can start business.  Any one
who chooses may enter the lists, and no questions are asked concerning his antecedents. The
battle is won by sheer strength of brain.  From all this it comes that the man of letters has
usually a history of his own: his individuality is more pronounced than the individuality of
other men; he has been knocked about by passion and circumstance.  All his life he has had
a dislike for iron rules and common-place maxims.  There is something of the gipsy in his nature.
He is to some extent eccentric, and he indulges his eccentricity.  And the misfortunes of men
of letters--the vulgar and patent misfortunes, I mean--arise mainly from the want of harmony
between their impulsiveness and volatility, and the staid unmercurial world with which they
are brought into conflict.  They are unconventional in a world of conventions; they are fanciful,
and are constantly misunderstood in prosaic relations.  They are wise enough in their books,
for there they are sovereigns, and can shape everything to their own likings; out of their
books, they are not unfrequently extremely foolish, for they exist then in the territory of
an alien power, and are constantly knocking their heads against existing orders of things.
Men of letters take prosaic men out of themselves; but they are weak where the prosaic men
are strong.  They have their own way in the world of ideas, prosaic men in the world of facts.
From his practical errors the writer learns something, if not always humility and amendment.
A memorial flower grows on every spot where he has come to grief; and the chasm he cannot over-leap
he bridges with a rainbow.

But the man of letters has not only to live, he has to develop himself; and his earning of
money and his intellectual development should proceed simultaneously and in proportionate degrees.
Herein lies the main difficulty of the literary life.  Out of his thought the man must bring
fire, food, clothing; and fire, food, clothing must in their turns subserve thought.  It is
necessary, for the proper conduct of such a life, that while the balance at the banker's increases,
intellectual resource should increase at the same ratio.  Progress should not be made in the
faculty of expression alone,--progress at the same time should be made in thought; for thought
is the material on which expression feeds. Should sufficient advance not be made in this last
direction, in a short time the man feels that he has expressed himself,--that now he can only
more or less dexterously repeat himself,--more or less prettily become his own echo.  It is
comparatively easy to acquire facility in writing; but it is an evil thing for the man of letters
when such facility is the only thing he has acquired,--when it has been, perhaps, the only
thing he has striven to acquire.  Such miscalculation of ways and means suggests vulgarity
of aspiration, and a fatal material taint.  In the life in which this error has been committed
there can be no proper harmony, no satisfaction, no spontaneous delight in effort.  The man
does not create,--he is only desperately keeping up appearances.  He has at once become "a
base mechanical," and his successes are not much higher than the successes of the acrobat or
the rope-dancer.  This want of proper relationship between resources of expression and resources
of thought, or subject-matter for expression, is common enough, and some slight suspicion of
it flashes across the mind at times in reading even the best authors.  It lies at the bottom
of every catastrophe in the literary life.  Frequently a man's first book is good, and all
his after productions but faint and yet fainter reverberations of the first.  The men who act
thus are in the long run deserted like worked-out mines.  A man reaches his limits as to thought
long before he reaches his limits as to expression; and a haunting suspicion of this is one
of the peculiar bitters of the literary life.  Hazlitt tells us that, after one of his early
interviews with Coleridge, he sat down to his Essay on the Natural Disinterestedness of the
Human Mind. This regretful looking back to the past, when emotions were keen and sharp, and
when thought wore the novel dress of a stranger, and this dissatisfaction with the acquirements
of the present, is common enough with the man of letters.  The years have come and gone, and
he is conscious that he is not intrinsically richer,--he has only learned to assort and display
his riches to advantage.  His wares have neither increased in quantity nor improved in quality,--he
has only procured a window in a leading thoroughfare.  He can catch his butterflies more cunningly,
he can pin them on his cards more skilfully, but their wings are fingered and tawdry compared
with the time when they winnowed before him in the sunshine over the meadows of youth.  This
species of regret is peculiar to the class of which I am speaking, and they often discern failure
in what the world counts success.  The veteran does not look back to the time when he was in
the awkward squad; the accountant does not sigh over the time when he was bewildered by the
mysteries of double-entry.  And the reason is obvious.  The dexterity which time and practice
have brought to the soldier and the accountant is pure gain: the dexterity of expression which
time and practice have brought to the writer is gain too, in its way, but not quite so pure.
It may have been cultivated and brought to its degree of excellence at the expense of higher
things.  The man of letters lives by thought and expression, and his two powers may not be
perfectly balanced.  And, putting aside its effect on the reader, and through that, on the
writer's pecuniary prosperity, the tragedy of want of equipoise lies in this.  When the writer
expresses his thought, it is immediately dead to him, however life-giving it may be to others;
he pauses midway in his career, he looks back over his uttered past--brown desert to him, in
which there is no sustenance--he looks forward to the green unuttered future, and beholding
its narrow limits, knows it is all that he can call his own,--on that vivid strip he must pasture
his intellectual life.

Is the literary life, on the whole, a happy one?  Granted that the writer is productive, that
he possesses abundance of material, that he has secured the ear of the world, one is inclined
to fancy that no life could be happier.  Such a man seems to live on the finest of the wheat.
If a poet, he is continually singing; if a novelist, he is supreme in his ideal world; if a
humourist, everything smiles back upon his smile; if an essayist, he is continually saying
the wisest, most memorable things.  He breathes habitually the serener air which ordinary mortals
can only at intervals respire, and in their happiest moments.  Such conceptions of great writers
are to some extent erroneous.  Through the medium of their books we know them only in their
active mental states,--in their triumphs; we do not see them when sluggishness has succeeded
the effort which was delight.  The statue does not come to her white limbs all at once.  It
is the bronze wrestler, not the flesh and blood one, that stands forever over a fallen adversary
with pride of victory on his face. Of the labour, the weariness, the self-distrust, the utter
despondency of the great writer, we know nothing.  Then, for the attainment of mere happiness
or contentment, any high faculty of imagination is a questionable help.  Of course imagination
lights the torch of joy, it deepens the carmine on the sleek cheek of the girl, it makes wine
sparkle, makes music speak, gives rays to the rising sun.  But in all its supreme sweetnesses
there is a perilous admixture of deceit, which is suspected even at the moment when the senses
tingle keenliest.  And it must be remembered that this potent faculty can darken as well as
brighten.  It is the very soul of pain.  While the trumpets are blowing in Ambition's ear,
it whispers of the grave.  It drapes Death in austere solemnities, and surrounds him with a
gloomy court of terrors.  The life of the imaginative man is never a commonplace one: his lights
are brighter, his glooms are darker, than the lights and gloom of the vulgar. His ecstasies
are as restless as his pains.  The great writer has this perilous faculty in excess; and through
it he will, as a matter of course, draw out of the atmosphere of circumstance surrounding him
the keenness of pleasure and pain.  To my own notion, the best gifts of the gods are neither
the most glittering nor the most admired.  These gifts I take to be, a moderate ambition, a
taste for repose with circumstances favourable thereto, a certain mildness of passion, an even-beating
pulse, an even-beating heart.  I do not consider heroes and celebrated persons the happiest
of mankind.  I do not envy Alexander the shouting of his armies, nor Dante his laurel wreath.
Even were I able, I would not purchase these at the prices the poet and the warrior paid. 
So far, then, as great writers--great poets, especially--are of imagination all compact--a
peculiarity of mental constitution which makes a man go shares with every one he is brought
into contact with; which makes him enter into Romeo's rapture when he touches Juliet's cheek
among cypresses silvered by the Verona moonlight, and the stupor of the blinded and pinioned
wretch on the scaffold before the bolt is drawn--so far as this special gift goes, I do not
think the great poet,--and by virtue of it he is a poet,--is likely to be happier than your
more ordinary mortal.  On the whole, perhaps, it is the great readers rather than the great
writers who are entirely to be envied.  They pluck the fruits, and are spared the trouble of
rearing them.  Prometheus filched fire from heaven, and had for reward the crag of Caucasus,
the chain, the vulture; while they for whom he stole it cook their suppers upon it, stretch
out benumbed hands towards it, and see its light reflected in their children's faces.  They
are comfortable: he, roofed by the keen crystals of the stars, groans above.

Trifles make up the happiness or the misery of mortal life.  The majority of men slip into
their graves without having encountered on their way thither any signal catastrophe or exaltation
of fortune or feeling. Collect a thousand ignited sticks into a heap, and you have a bonfire
which may be seen over three counties.  If, during thirty years, the annoyances connected with
shirt-buttons found missing when you are hurriedly dressing for dinner, were gathered into
a mass and endured at once, it would be misery equal to a public execution.  If, from the same
space of time, all the little titillations of a man's vanity were gathered into one lump of
honey and enjoyed at once, the pleasure of being crowned would not perhaps be much greater.
If the equanimity of an ordinary man be at the mercy of trifles, how much more will the equanimity
of the man of letters, who is usually the most sensitive of the race, and whose peculiar avocation
makes sad work with the fine tissues of the nerves.  Literary composition is, I take it, with
the exception of the crank, in which there is neither hope nor result, the most exhausting
to which a human being can apply himself.  Just consider the situation.  Here is your man of
letters, tender-hearted as Cowper, who would not count upon his list of friends the man who
tramples heedlessly upon a worm; as light of sleep and abhorrent of noise as Beattie, who denounces
chanticleer for his lusty proclamation of morning to his own and the neighbouring farmyards
in terms that would be unmeasured if applied to Nero; as alive to blame as Byron, who declared
that the praise of the greatest of the race could not take the sting from the censure of the
meanest.  Fancy the sufferings of a creature so built and strung in a world which creaks so
vilely on its hinges as this!  Will such a man confront a dun with an imperturbable countenance?
Will he throw himself back in his chair and smile blandly when his chamber is lanced through
and through by the notes of a street bagpiper?  When his harrassed brain should be solaced
by music, will he listen patiently to stupid remarks?  I fear not.  The man of letters suffers
keenlier than people suspect from sharp, cruel noises, from witless observations, from social
misconceptions of him of every kind, from hard utilitarian wisdom, and from his own good things
going to the grave unrecognised and unhonoured.  And, forced to live by his pen, to extract
from his brain bread and beer, clothing, lodging, and income-tax, I am not surprised that he
is oftentimes nervous, querulous, impatient.  Thinking of these things, I do not wonder at
Hazlitt's spleen, at Charles Lamb's punch, at Coleridge's opium.  I think of the days spent
in writing, and of the nights which repeat the day in dream, and in which there is no refreshment.
I think of the brain which must be worked out at length; of Scott, when the wand of the enchanter
was broken, writing poor romances; of Southey sitting vacantly in his library, and drawing
a feeble satisfaction from the faces of his books.  And for the man of letters there is more
than the mere labour: he writes his book, and has frequently the mortification of seeing it
neglected or torn to pieces. Above all men, he longs for sympathy, recognition, applause. 
He respects his fellow-creatures, because he beholds in him a possible reader.  To write a
book, to send it forth to the world and the critics, is to a sensitive person like plunging
mother-naked into tropic waters where sharks abound.  It is true that, like death, the terror
of criticism lives most in apprehension; still, to have been frequently criticised, and to
be constantly liable to it, are disagreeable items in a man's life.  Most men endure criticism
with commendable fortitude, just as most criminals when under the drop conduct themselves with
calmness.  They bleed, but they bleed inwardly.  To be flayed in the Saturday Review, for instance,--a
whole amused public looking on,--is far from pleasant; and, after the operation, the ordinary
annoyances of life probably magnify themselves into tortures.  The grasshopper becomes a burden.
Touch a flayed man ever so lightly, and with ever so kindly an intention, and he is sure to
wince.  The skin of the man of letters is peculiarly sensitive to the bite of the critical
mosquito; and he lives in a climate in which such mosquitoes swarm.  He is seldom stabbed to
the heart--he is often killed by pin-pricks.

But, to leave palisade and outwork, and come to the interior of the citadel, it may be said
that great writers, although they must ever remain shining objects of regard to us, are not
exempted from ordinary limitations and conditions.  They are cabined, cribbed, confined, even
as their more prosaic brethren.  It is in the nature of every man to be endued with that he
works in.  Thus, in course of time, the merchant becomes bound up in his ventures and his ledger;
an indefinable flavour of the pharmacopoeia lingers about the physician; the bombasine and
horse-hair of the lawyer eat into his soul--his experiences are docketed in a clerkly hand,
bound together with red tape, and put away in professional pigeon-holes.  A man naturally becomes
leavened by the profession which he has adopted.  He thinks, speaks, and dreams "shop," as
the colloquial phrase has it.  Men of letters are affected by their profession just as merchants,
physicians, and lawyers are.  In course of time the inner man becomes stained with ink, like
blotting-paper.  The agriculturist talks constantly of bullocks--the man of letters constantly
of books.  The printing-press seems constantly in his immediate neighbourhood.  He is stretched
on the rack of an unfavourable review,--he is lapped in the Elysium of a new edition.  The
narrowing effect of a profession is in every man a defect, albeit an inevitable one.

And his lordship's "hate" in the matter is understandable enough.  In his own day, Scott and
himself were almost the only distinguished authors who were not "all authors," just as Mr.
Helps and Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton are almost the only representatives of the class in ours.
This professional taint not only resides in the writer, impairing his fulness and completion;
it flows out of him into his work, and impairs it also. It is the professional character which
authorship has assumed which has taken individuality and personal flavour from so much of our
writing, and prevented to a large extent the production of enduring books.  Our writing is
done too hurriedly, and to serve a purpose too immediate. Literature is not so much an art
as a manufacture.  There is a demand, and too many crops are taken off the soil; it is never
allowed to lie fallow, and to nourish itself in peacefulness and silence.  When so many cups
are to be filled, too much water is certain to be put into the teapot.  Letters have become
a profession, and probably of all professions it is, in the long run, the least conducive to
personal happiness.  It is the most precarious.  In it, above all others, to be weak is to
be miserable.  It is the least mechanical, consequently the most exhausting; and in its higher
walks it deals with a man's most vital material--utilises his emotions, trades on his faculties
of love and imagination, uses for its own purposes the human heart by which he lives. These
things a man requires for himself; and when they are in a large proportion transported to an
ideal world, they make the ideal world all the more brilliant and furnished, and leave his
ordinary existence all the more arid and commonplace.  You cannot spend money and have it;
you cannot use emotion and possess it.  The poet who sings loudly of love and love's delights,
may in the ordinary intercourse of life be all the colder for his singing.  The man who has
been moved while describing an imaginary death-bed to-day, is all the more likely to be unmoved
while standing by his friend's grave to-morrow.  Shakspeare, after emerging from the moonlight
in the Verona orchard, and Romeo and Juliet's silvery interchange of vows, was, I fear me,
not marvellously enamoured of the autumn on Ann Hathaway's cheek.  It is in some such way as
this that a man's books may impoverish his life; that the fire and heat of his genius may make
his hearth all the colder.  From considerations like these, one can explain satisfactorily
enough to one's self the domestic misadventures of men of letters--of poets especially.  We
know the poets only in their books; their wives know them out of them.  Their wives see the
other side of the moon; and we have been made pretty well aware how they have appreciated that.

The man engaged in the writing of books is tempted to make such writing the be-all and end-all
of his existence--to grow his literature out of his history, experience, or observation, as
the gardener grows out of soils brought from a distance the plants which he intends to exhibit.
The cup of life foams fiercely over into first books; materials for the second, third, and
fourth must be carefully sought for.  The man of letters, as time passes on, and the professional
impulse works deeper, ceases to regard the world with a single eye.  The man slowly merges
into the artist.  He values new emotions and experiences, because he can turn these into artistic
shapes.  He plucks "copy" from rising and setting suns.  He sees marketable pathos in his friend's
death-bed.  He carries the peal of his daughter's marriage-bells into his sentences or his
rhymes; and in these the music sounds sweeter to him than in the sunshine and the wind.  If
originally of a meditative, introspective mood, his profession can hardly fail to confirm and
deepen his peculiar temperament.  He begins to feel his own pulse curiously, and for a purpose.
As a spy in the service of literature, he lives in the world and its concerns.  Out of everything
he seeks thoughts and images, as out of everything the bee seeks wax and honey.  A curious
instance of this mode of looking at things occurs in Goethe's "Letters from Italy," with whom,
indeed, it was fashion, and who helped himself out of the teeming world to more effect than
any man of his time:--

"From Botzen to Trent the stage is nine leagues, and runs through a valley which constantly
increases in fertility.  All that merely struggles into vegetation on the higher mountains
has here more strength and vitality.  The sun shines with warmth, and there is once more belief
in a Deity.

"A poor woman cried out to me to take her child into my vehicle, as the soil was burning its
feet.  I did her this service out of honour to the strong light of Heaven.  The child was strangely
decked out, but I could get nothing from it in any way."

It is clear that out of all this the reader gains; but I cannot help thinking that for the
writer it tends to destroy entire and simple living--all hearty and final enjoyment in life.
Joy and sorrow, death and marriage, the comic circumstance and the tragic, what befalls him,
what he observes, what he is brought into contact with, do not affect him as they affect other
men; they are secrets to be rifled, stones to be built with, clays to be moulded into artistic
shape.  In giving emotional material artistic form, there is indisputably a certain noble pleasure;
but it is of a solitary and severe complexion, and takes a man out of the circle and sympathies
of his fellows.  I do not say that this kind of life makes a man selfish, but it often makes
him seem so; and the results of this seeming, on friendship and the domestic relationships,
for instance, are as baleful as if selfishness really existed.  The peculiar temptation which
besets men of letters, the curious playing with thought and emotion, the tendency to analyse
and take everything to pieces, has two results, and neither aids his happiness nor even his
literary success.  On the one hand, and in relation to the social relations, it gives him somewhat
of an icy aspect, and so breaks the spring and eagerness of affectionate response.  For the
best affection is shy, reticent, undemonstrative, and needs to be drawn out by its like. If
unrecognised, like an acquaintance on the street, it passes by, making no sign, and is for
the time being a stranger.  On the other hand, the desire to say a fine thing about a phenomenon,
whether natural or moral, prevents a man from reaching the inmost core of the phenomenon. 
Entrance into these matters will never be obtained by the most sedulous seeking. The man who
has found an entrance cannot tell how he came there, and he will never find his way back again
by the same road.  From this law arises all the dreary conceits and artifices of the poets;
it is through the operation of the same law that many of our simple songs and ballads are inexpressibly
affecting, because in them there is no consciousness of authorship; emotion and utterance are
twin born, consentaneous--like sorrow and tears, a blow and its pain, a kiss and its thrill.
When a man is happy, every effort to express his happiness mars its completeness.  I am not
happy at all unless I am happier than I know.  When the tide is full there is silence in channel
and creek.  The silence of the lover when he clasps the maid is better than the passionate
murmur of the song which celebrates her charms.  If to be near the rose makes the nightingale
tipsy with delight, what must it be to be the rose herself? One feeling of the "wild joys of
living--the leaping from rock to rock," is better than the "muscular-Christianity" literature
which our time has produced.  I am afraid that the profession of letters interferes with the
elemental feelings of life; and I am afraid, too, that in the majority of cases this interference
is not justified by its results.  The entireness and simplicity of life is flawed by the intrusion
of an inquisitive element, and this inquisitive element never yet found anything which was
much worth the finding.  Men live by the primal energies of love, faith, imagination; and happily
it is not given to every one to live, in the pecuniary sense, by the artistic utilisation and
sale of these.  You cannot make ideas; they must come unsought if they come at all.

  "From pastoral graves extracting thoughts divine"

is a profitable occupation enough, if you stumble on the little churchyard covered over with
silence, and folded among the hills.  If you go to the churchyard with intent to procure thought,
as you go into the woods to gather anemones, you are wasting your time.  Thoughts must come
naturally, like wild flowers; they cannot be forced in a hot-bed--even although aided by the
leaf-mould of your past--like exotics.  And it is the misfortune of men of letters of our day
that they cannot afford to wait for this natural flowering of thought, but are driven to the
forcing process, with the results which were to be expected.

ON THE IMPORTANCE OF A MAN TO HIMSELF

The present writer remembers to have been visited once by a strange feeling of puzzlement;
and the puzzled feeling arose out of the following circumstance:--He was seated in a railway-carriage,
five minutes or so before starting, and had time to contemplate certain waggons or trucks filled
with cattle, drawn up on a parallel line, and quite close to the window at which he sat.  The
cattle wore a much-enduring aspect; and, as he looked into their large, patient, melancholy
eyes,--for, as before mentioned, there was no space to speak of intervening,--the feeling of
puzzlement alluded to arose in his mind.  And it consisted in an attempt to solve the existence
before him, to enter into it, to understand it, and his inability to accomplish it, or indeed
to make any way toward the accomplishment of it.  The much-enduring animals in the trucks opposite
had unquestionably some rude twilight of a notion of a world; of objects they had some unknown
cognisance; but he could get behind the melancholy eye within a yard of him, and look through
it.  How, from that window, the world shaped itself, he could not discover, could not even
fancy; and yet, staring on the animals, he was conscious of a certain fascination in which
there lurked an element of terror.  These wild, unkempt brutes, with slavering muzzles, penned
together, lived, could choose between this thing and the other, could be frightened, could
be enraged, could even love or hate; and gazing into a placid, heavy countenance, and the depths
of a patient eye, not a yard away, he was conscious of an obscure and shuddering recognition,
of a life akin so far with his own.  But to enter into that life imaginatively, and to conceive
it, he found impossible.  Eye looked upon eye, but the one could not flash recognition on the
other; and, thinking of this, he remembers, with what a sense of ludicrous horror, the idea
came,--what, if looking on one another thus, some spark of recognition could be elicited; if
some rudiment of thought could be detected; if there were indeed a point at which man and ox
could not compare notes?  Suppose some gleam or scintillation of humour had lighted up the
unwinking, amber eye?  Heavens, the bellow of the weaning calf would be pathetic, shoe-leather
would be forsworn, the eating of roast meat, hot or cold, would be cannibalism, the terrified
world would make a sudden dash into vegetarianism!  Happily before fancy had time to play another
vagary, with a snort and pull the train moved on, and my truckful of horned friends were left
gazing into empty space, with the same wistful, patient, and melancholy expression with which,
for the space of five minutes or so, they had surveyed and bewildered me.

A similar feeling of puzzlement to that which I have indicated, besets one not unfrequently
in the contemplation of men and women.  You are brought in contact with a person, you attempt
to comprehend him, to enter into him, in a word to be him, and, if you are utterly foiled in
the attempt, you cannot flatter yourself that you have been successful to the measure of your
desire.  A person interests, or piques, or tantalises you, you do your best to make him out;
yet strive as you will, you cannot read the riddle of his personality.  From the invulnerable
fortress of his own nature he smiles contemptuously on the beleaguering armies of your curiosity
and analysis.  And it is not only the stranger that thus defeats you; it may be the brother
brought up by the same fireside with you, the best friend whom you have known from early school
and college days, the very child, perhaps, that bears your name, and with whose moral and mental
apparatus you think you are as familiar as with your own.  In the midst of the most amicable
relationships and the best understandings, human beings are, at times, conscious of a cold
feeling of strangeness--the friend is actuated by a feeling which never could actuate you,
some hitherto unknown part of his character becomes visible, and while at one moment you stood
in such close neighbourhood, that you could feel his arm touch your own, in the next there
is a feeling of removal, of distance, of empty space betwixt him and you in which the wind
is blowing.  You and he become separate entities.  He is related to you as Border peel is related
to Border peel on Tweedside, or as ship is related to ship on the sea.  It is not meant that
any quarrel or direct misunderstanding should have taken place, simply that feeling of foreignness
is meant to be indicated which occurs now and then in the intercourse of the most affectionate;
which comes as a harsh reminder to friends and lovers that with whatsoever flowery bands they
may be linked, they are separated persons, who understand, and can only understand, each other
partially.  It is annoying to be put out in our notions of men and women thus, and to be forced
to rearrange them.  It is a misfortune to have to manoeuvre one's heart as a general has to
manoeuvre his army. The globe has been circumnavigated, but no man ever yet has; you may survey
a kingdom and note the result in maps, but all the servants in the world could not produce
a reliable map of the poorest human personality.  And the worst of all this is, that love and
friendship may be the outcome of a certain condition of knowledge; increase the knowledge,
and love and friendship beat their wings and go.  Every man's road in life is marked by the
graves of his personal likings. Intimacy is frequently the road to indifference, and marriage
a parricide.  From these accidents to the affections, and from the efforts to repair them,
life has in many a patched and tinkered look.

Love and friendship are the discoveries of ourselves in others, and our delight in the recognition;
and in men, as in books, we only know that, the parallel of which we have in ourselves.  We
know only that portion of the world which we have travelled over; and we are never a whit wiser
than our own experiences.  Imagination, the falcon, sits on the wrist of Experience, the falconer;
she can never soar beyond the reach of his whistle, and when tired she must return to her perch.
Our knowledge is limited by ourselves, and so also are our imaginations. And so it comes about,
that a man measures everything by his own foot-rule; that if he is ignoble, all the ignobleness
that is in the world looks out upon him, and claims kindred with him; if noble, all the nobleness
in the world does the like.  Shakspeare is always the same height with his reader; and when
a thousand Christians subscribe to one Confession of Faith, hardly to two of them does it mean
the same thing.  The world is a great warehouse of raiment, to which every one has access and
is allowed free use; and the remarkable thing is, what coarse stuffs are often chosen, and
how scantily some people are attired.

We never get quit of ourselves.  While I am writing, the spring is outside, and this season
of the year touches my spirit always with a sense of newness, of strangeness, of resurrection.
It shoots boyhood again into the blood of middle age.  That tender greening of the black bough
and the red field,--that coming again of the new-old flowers,--that re-birth of love in all
the family of birds, with cooings, and caressings, and building of nests in wood and brake,--that
strange glory of sunshine in the air,--that stirring of life in the green mould, making even
churchyards beautiful,--seems like the creation of a new world.  And yet--and yet, even with
the lamb in the sunny field, the lark mile-high in the blue, Spring has her melancholy side,
and bears a sadder burden to the heart than Autumn, preaching of decay with all his painted
woods.  For the flowers that make sweet the moist places in the forest are not the same that
bloomed the year before.  Another lark sings above the furrowed field.  Nature rolls on in
her eternal course, repeating her tale of spring, summer, autumn, winter; but life in man and
beast is transitory, and other living creatures take their places.  It is quite certain that
one or other of the next twenty springs will come unseen by me, will awake no throb of transport
in my veins.  But will it be less bright on that account? Will the lamb be saddened in the
field?  Will the lark be less happy in the air?  The sunshine will draw the daisy from the
mound under which I sleep, as carelessly as she draws the cowslip from the meadow by the riverside.
The seasons have no ruth, no compunction.  They care not for our petty lives.  The light falls
sweetly on graveyards, and on brown labourers among the hay-swaths.  Were the world depopulated
to-morrow, next spring would break pitilessly bright, flowers would bloom, fruit-tree boughs
wear pink and white; and although there would be no eye to witness, Summer would not adorn
herself with one blossom the less.  It is curious to think how important a creature a man is
to himself.  We cannot help thinking that all things exist for our particular selves.  The
sun, in whose light a system lives, warms me; makes the trees grow for me; paints the evening
sky in gorgeous colours for me.  The mould I till, produced from the beds of extinct oceans
and the grating of rock and mountain during countless centuries, exists that I may have muffins
to breakfast.  Animal life, with its strange instincts and affections, is to be recognised
and cherished,--for does it not draw my burdens for me, and carry me from place to place, and
yield me comfortable broadcloth, and succulent joints to dinner?  I think it matter of complaint
that Nature, like a personal friend to whom I have done kind services, will not wear crape
at my funeral.  I think it cruel that the sun should shine, and birds sing, and I lying in
my grave.  People talk of the age of the world!  So far as I am concerned, it began with my
consciousness, and will end with my decease.

And yet, this self-consciousness, which so continually besets us, is in itself a misery and
a galling chain.  We are never happy till by imagination we are taken out of the pales and
limits of self.  We receive happiness at second hand: the spring of it may be in ourselves,
but we do not know it to be happiness, till, like the sun's light from the moon, it is reflected
on us from an object outside.  The admixture of a foreign element sweetens and unfamiliarises
it.  Sheridan prepared his good things in solitude, but he tasted for the first time his jest's
prosperity when it came back to him in illumined faces and a roar of applause.  Your oldest
story becomes new when you have a new auditor.  A young man is truth-loving and amiable, but
it is only when these fair qualities shine upon him from a girl's face that he is smitten by
transport--only then is he truly happy.  In that junction of hearts, in that ecstasy of mutual
admiration and delight, the finest epithalamium ever writ by poet is hardly worthy of the occasion.
The countryman purchases oranges at a fair for his little ones; and when he brings them home
in the evening, and watches his chubby urchins, sitting up among the bed-clothes, peel and
devour the fruit, he is for the time-being richer than if he drew the rental of the orange-groves
of Seville.  To eat an orange himself is nothing; to see them eat it is a pleasure worth the
price of the fruit a thousand times over. There is no happiness in the world in which love
does not enter; and love is but the discovery of ourselves in others, and the delight in the
recognition.  Apart from others no man can make his happiness; just as, apart from a mirror
of one kind or another, no man can become acquainted with his own lineaments.

The accomplishment of a man is the light by which we are enabled to discover the limits of
his personality.  Every man brings into the world with him a certain amount of pith and force,
and to that pith or force his amount of accomplishment is exactly proportioned.  It is in this
way that every spoken word, every action of a man, becomes biographical.  Everything a man
says or does is in consistency with himself; and it is by looking back on his sayings and doings
that we arrive at the truth concerning him.  A man is one; and every outcome of him has a family
resemblance.  Goldsmith did not "write like an angel and talk like poor Poll," as we may in
part discern from Boswell's "Johnson."  Strange, indeed, if a man talked continually the sheerest
nonsense, and wrote continually the gracefulest humours; if a man was lame on the street, and
the finest dancer in the ball-room.  To describe a character by antithesis is like painting
a portrait in black and white--all the curious intermixtures and gradations of colour are lost.
The accomplishment of a human being is measured by his strength, or by his nice tact in using
his strength.  The distance to which your gun, whether rifled or smooth-bored, will carry its
shot, depends upon the force of its charge.  A runner's speed and endurance depends upon his
depth of chest and elasticity of limb.  If a poet's lines lack harmony, it instructs us that
there is a certain lack of harmony in himself.  We see why Haydon failed as an artist when
we read his life. No one can dip into the "Excursion" without discovering that Wordsworth was
devoid of humour, and that he cared more for the narrow Cumberland vale than he did for the
big world.  The flavour of opium can be detected in the "Ancient Mariner" and "Christabel."
A man's word or deed takes us back to himself, as the sunbeam takes us back to the sun. It
is the sternest philosophy, but on the whole the truest, that, in the wide arena of the world,
failure and success are not accidents as we so frequently suppose, but the strictest justice.
If you do your fair day's work, you are certain to get your fair day's wage--in praise or pudding,
whichever happens to suit your taste.  You may have seen at country fairs a machine by which
the rustics test their strength of arm.  A country fellow strikes vigorously a buffer, which
recoils, and the amount of the recoil--dependent, of course, on the force with which it is
struck--is represented by a series of notches or marks.  The world is such a buffer.  A man
strikes it with all his might; his mark may be 40,000 pounds, a peerage, and Westminster Abbey,
a name in literature or art; but in every case his mark is nicely determined by the force or
the art with which the buffer is struck.  Into the world a man brings his personality, and
his biography is simply a catalogue of its results.

There are some men who have no individuality, just as there are some men who have no face.
These are to be described by generals, not by particulars.  They are thin, vapid, inconclusive.
They are important solely on account of their numbers.  For them the census enumerator labours;
they form majorities; they crowd voting booths; they make the money; they do the ordinary work
of the world.  They are valuable when well officered.  They are plastic matter to be shaped
by a workman's hand; and are built with as bricks are built with.  In the aggregate, they form
public opinion; but then, in every age, public opinion is the disseminated thoughts of some
half a dozen men, who are in all probability sleeping quietly in their graves.  They retain
dead men's ideas, just as the atmosphere retains the light and heat of the set sun.  They are
not light--they are twilight.  To know how to deal with such men--to know how to use them--is
the problem which ambitious force is called upon to solve.  Personality, individuality, force
of character, or by whatever name we choose to designate original and vigourous manhood, is
the best thing which nature has in her gift.  The forceful man is a prophecy of the future.
The wind blows here, but long after it is spent the big wave which is its creature, breaks
on a shore a thousand miles away.  It is curious how swiftly influences travel from centre
to circumference.  A certain empress invents a gracefully pendulous crinoline, and immediately,
from Paris to the pole, the female world is behooped; and neither objurgation of brother, lover,
or husband, deaths by burning or machinery, nor all the wit of the satirists, are likely to
affect its vitality.  Never did an idea go round civilisation so rapidly.  Crinoline has already
a heavier martyrology than many a creed.  The world is used easily, if one can only hit on
the proper method; and force of character, originality, of whatever kind, is always certain
to make its mark.  It is a diamond, and the world is its pane of glass.  In a world so commonplace
as this, the peculiar man even should be considered a blessing.  Humorousness, eccentricity,
the habit of looking at men and things from an odd angle, are valuable, because they break
the dead level of society and take away its sameness.  It is well that a man should be known
by something else than his name; there are few of us who can be known by anything else, and
Brown, Jones, and Robinson are the names of the majority.

In literature and art, this personal outcome is of the highest value; in fact, it is the only
thing truly valuable.  The greatness of an artist or a writer does not depend on what he has
in common with other artists and writers, but on what he has peculiar to himself.  The great
man is the man who does a thing for the first time.  It was a difficult thing to discover America;
since it has been discovered, it has been found an easy enough task to sail thither.  It is
this peculiar something resident in a poem or a painting which is its final test,--at all events,
possessing it, it has the elements of endurance.  Apart from its other values, it has, in virtue
of that, a biographical one; it becomes a study of character; it is a window through which
you can look into a human interior.  There is a cleverness in the world which seems to have
neither father nor mother.  It exists, but it is impossible to tell from whence it comes,--just
as it is impossible to lift the shed apple-blossom of an orchard, and to discover, from its
bloom and odour, to what branch it belonged.  Such cleverness illustrates nothing: it is an
anonymous letter.  Look at it ever so long, and you cannot tell its lineage.  It lives in the
catalogue of waifs and strays.  On the other hand, there are men whose every expression is
characteristic, whose every idea seems to come out of a mould.  In the short sentence, or curt,
careless saying of such when laid bare, you can read their histories so far, as in the smallest
segment of a tree you can trace the markings of its rings.  The first dies, because it is shallow-rooted,
and has no vitality beyond its own; the second lives, because it is related to and fed by something
higher than itself.  The famous axiom of Mrs. Glass, that in order to make hare-soup you "must
first catch your hare," has a wide significance. In art, literature, social life, morals even,
you must first catch your man: that done, everything else follows as a matter of course.  A
man may learn much; but for the most important thing of all he can find neither teachers nor
schools.

Each man is the most important thing in the world to himself; but why is he to himself so important?
Simply because he is a personality with capacities of pleasure, of pain, who can be hurt, who
can be pleased, who can be disappointed, who labours and expects his hire, in whose consciousness,
in fact, for the time being, the whole universe lives. He is, and everything else is relative.
Confined to his own personality, making it his tower of outlook, from which only he can survey
the outer world, he naturally enough forms a rather high estimate of its value, of its dignity,
of its intrinsic worth.  This high estimate is useful in so far as it makes his condition pleasant,
and it--or rather our proneness to form it--we are accustomed to call vanity.  Vanity--which
really helps to keep the race alive--has been treated harshly by the moralists and satirists.
It does not quite deserve the hard names it has been called.  It interpenetrates everything
a man says or does, but it inter-penetrates for a useful purpose.  If it is always an alloy
in the pure gold of virtue, it at least does the service of an alloy--making the precious metal
workable. Nature gave man his powers, appetites, aspirations, and along with these a pan of
incense, which fumes from the birth of consciousness to its decease, making the best part of
life rapture, and the worst part endurable.  But for vanity the race would have died out long
ago. There are some men whose lives seem to us as undesirable as the lives of toads or serpents;
yet these men breathe in tolerable content and satisfaction.  If a man could hear all that
his fellows say of him--that he is stupid, that he is henpecked, that he will be in the Gazette
in a week, that his brain is softening, that he has said all his best things--and if he could
believe that these pleasant things are true, he would be in his grave before the month was
out.  Happily no man does hear these things; and if he did, they would only provoke inextinguishable
wrath or inextinguishable laughter.  A man receives the shocks of life on the buffer of his
vanity.  Vanity acts as his second and bottleholder in the world's prize-ring, and it fights
him well, bringing him smilingly up to time after the fiercest knock-down blows.  Vanity is
to a man what the oily secretion is to a bird, with which it sleeks and adjusts the plumage
ruffled by whatever causes. Vanity is not only instrumental in keeping a man alive and in heart,
but, in its lighter manifestations, it is the great sweetener of social existence.  It is the
creator of dress and fashion; it is the inventor of forms and ceremonies, to it we are indebted
for all our traditions of civility.  For vanity in its idler moments is benevolent, is as willing
to give pleasure as to take it, and accepts as sufficient reward for its services a kind word
or an approving smile.  It delights to bask in the sunshine of approbation.  Out of man vanity
makes gentleman.  The proud man is cold, the selfish man hard and griping--the vain man desires
to shine, to please, to make himself agreeable; and this amiable feeling works to the outside
of suavity and charm of manner.  The French are the vainest people in Europe, and the most polite.

As each man is to himself the most important thing in the world, each man is an egotist in
his thinkings, in his desires, in his fears.  It does not, however, follow that each man must
be an egotist--as the word is popularly understood--in his speech.  But even although this
were the case, the world would be divided into egotists, likable and unlikable.  There are
two kinds of egotism, a trifling vainglorious kind, a mere burning of personal incense, in
which the man is at once altar, priest, censer, and divinity; a kind which deals with the accidents
and wrappages of the speaker, his equipage, his riches, his family, his servants, his furniture
and array.  The other kind has no taint of self-aggrandisement, but is rooted in the faculties
of love and humour, and this latter kind is never offensive, because it includes others, and
knows no scorn or exclusiveness.  The one is the offspring of a narrow and unimaginative personality;
the other of a large and genial one.  There are persons who are the terrors of society.  Perfectly
innocent of evil intention, they are yet, with a certain brutal unconsciousness, continually
trampling on other people's corns. At the first-named fall who will be a like one with a chance of the
connection being seriously been ache.

In the head has not declared that there are two battlefield of safety'-- one brown to a ground, and
has a well up the air themselves. Two Fields of Perfection.
 Should your great-grandfather have had the misfortune to be hanged,
such a person is certain, on some public occasion, to make allusion to your pedigree.  He will
probably insist on your furnishing him with a sketch of your family tree.  If your daughter
has made a runaway marriage--on which subject yourself and friends maintain a judicious silence--he
is certain to stumble upon it, and make the old sore smart again.  In all this there is no
malice, no desire to wound; it arises simply from want of imagination, from profound immersion
in self.  An imaginative man recognises at once a portion of himself in his fellow, and speaks
to that.  To hurt you is to hurt himself.  Much of the rudeness we encounter in life cannot
be properly set down to cruelty or badness of heart.  The unimaginative man is callous, and
although he hurts easily, he cannot be easily hurt in return.  The imaginative man is sensitive,
and merciful to others, out of the merest mercy to himself.

In literature, as in social life, the attractiveness of egotism depends entirely upon the egotist.
If he be a conceited man, full of self-admirations and vainglories, his egotism will disgust
and repel. When he sings his own praises, his reader feels that reflections are being thrown
on himself, and in a natural revenge he calls the writer a coxcomb.  If, on the other hand,
he be loving, genial, humourous, with a sympathy for others, his garrulousness and his personal
allusions are forgiven, because while revealing himself, he is revealing his reader as well.
A man may write about himself during his whole life without once tiring or offending; but to
accomplish this, he must be interesting in himself--be a man of curious and vagrant moods,
gifted with the cunningest tact and humour; and the experience which he relates must at a thousand
points touch the experiences of his readers, so that they, as it were, become partners in his
game.  When X. tells me, with an evident swell of pride, that he dines constantly with half-a-dozen
men-servants in attendance, or that he never drives abroad save in a coach-and-six, I am not
conscious of any special gratitude to X. for the information.  Possibly, if my establishments
boast only of Cinderella, and if a cab is the only vehicle in which I can afford to ride, and
all the more if I can indulge in that only on occasions of solemnity, I fly into a rage, pitch
the book to the other end of the room, and may never afterwards be brought to admit that X.
is possessor of a solitary ounce of brains.  If, on the other hand, Z. informs me that every
February he goes out to the leafless woods to hunt early snowdrops, and brings home bunches
of them in his hat; or that he prefers in woman a brown eye to a blue, and explains by early
love passages his reasons for the preference, I do not get angry; on the contrary, I feel quite
pleased; perhaps, if the matter is related with unusual grace and tenderness, it is read with
a certain moisture and dimness of eye.  And the reason is obvious.  The egotistical X. is barren,
and suggests nothing beyond himself, save that he is a good deal better off than I am--a reflection
much pleasanter to him than it is to me; whereas the equally egotistical Z., with a single
sentence about his snowdrops, or his liking for brown eyes rather than for blue, sends my thoughts
wandering away back among my dead spring-times, or wafts me the odours of the roses of those
summers when the colour of an eye was of more importance than it now is.  X.'s men-servants
and coach-and-six do not fit into the life of his reader, because in all probability his reader
knows as much about these things as he knows about Pharaoh; Z.'s snowdrops and preferences
of colour do, because every one knows what the spring thirst is, and every one in his time
has been enslaved by eyes whose colour he could not tell for his life, but which he knew were
the tenderest that ever looked love, the brightest that ever flashed sunlight.  Montaigne and
Charles Lamb are egotists of the Z. class, and the world never wearies reading them: nor are
egotists of the X. school absolutely without entertainment. Several of these the world reads
assiduously too, although for another reason.  The avid vanity of Mr. Pepys would be gratified
if made aware of the success of his diary; but curiously to inquire into the reason of that
success, why his diary has been found so amusing, would not conduce to his comfort.

After all, the only thing a man knows is himself.  The world outside he can know only by hearsay.
His shred of personality is all he has; than that, he is nothing richer nothing poorer.  Everything
else is mere accident and appendage.  Alexander must not be measured by the shoutings of his
armies, nor Lazarus at Dives' gates by his sores.  And a man knows himself only in part.  In
every nature, as in Australia, there is an unexplored territory--green, well-watered regions
or mere sandy deserts; and into that territory experience is making progress day by day.  We
can remember when we knew only the outer childish rim--and from the crescent guessed the sphere;
whether, as we advanced, these have been realised, each knows for himself.

A SHELF IN MY BOOKCASE

When a man glances critically through the circle of his intimate friends, he is obliged to
confess that they are far from being perfect.  They possess neither the beauty of Apollo, nor
the wisdom of Solon, nor the wit of Mercutio, nor the reticence of Napoleon III.  If pushed
hard he will be constrained to admit that he has known each and all get angry without sufficient
occasion, make at times the foolishest remarks, and act as if personal comfort were the highest
thing in their estimation. Yet, driven thus to the wall, forced to make such uncomfortable
confessions, our supposed man does not like his friends one whit the less; nay, more, he is
aware that if they were very superior and faultless persons he would not be conscious of so
much kindly feeling towards them.  The tide of friendship does not rise high on the bank of
perfection. The engine i gave four brake. mr. strongly, which was apparently ancient flight. The engine
strongly used is this Bates 3 5/ 8-inch, 2-cylinder, showing 8 piano. that p., and he and now giving
nothing in world. The piano he madame one pounds.
  My friends are not
perfect--no more am I--and so we suit each other admirably.  Their weaknesses keep mine in
countenance, and so save me from humiliation and shame.  We give and take, bear and forbear;
the stupidity they utter to-day salves the recollection of the stupidity I uttered yesterday;
in their want of wit I see my own, and so feel satisfied and kindly disposed.  It is one of
the charitable dispensations of Providence that perfection is not essential to friendship.
If I had to seek my perfect man, I should wander the world a good while, and when I found him,
and was down on my knees before him, he would, to a certainty, turn the cold shoulder on me--and
so life would be an eternal search, broken by the coldness of repulse and loneliness.  Only
to the perfect being in an imperfect world, or the imperfect being in a perfect world, is everything
irretrievably out of joint.

On a certain shelf in the bookcase which stands in the room in which I am at present sitting--bookcase
surmounted by a white Dante, looking out with blind, majestic eyes--are collected a number
of volumes which look somewhat the worse for wear.  Those of them which originally possessed
gilding have had it fingered off, each of them has leaves turned down, and they open of themselves
at places wherein I have been happy, and with whose every word I am familiar as with the furniture
of the room in which I nightly slumber, each of them has remarks relevant and irrelevant scribbled
on their margins.  These favourite volumes cannot be called peculiar glories of literature;
but out of the world of books have I singled them, as I have singled my intimates out of the
world of men.  I am on easy terms with them, and feel that they are no higher than my heart.
Milton is not there, neither is Wordsworth; Shakspeare, if he had written comedies only, would
have been there to a certainty, but the presence of the five great tragedies,--Hamlet, Othello,
Macbeth, Lear, Antony and Cleopatra--for this last should be always included among his supreme
efforts--has made me place him on the shelf where the mighty men repose, himself the mightiest
of all.  Reading Milton is like dining off gold plate in a company of kings; very splendid,
very ceremonious, and not a little appalling.  Him I read but seldom, and only on high days
and festivals of the spirit.  Him I never lay down without feeling my appreciation increased
for lesser men--never without the same kind of comfort that one returning from the presence
feels when he doffs respectful attitude and dress of ceremony, and subsides into old coat,
familiar arm-chair, and slippers.  After long-continued organ-music, the jangle of the jews-harp
is felt as an exquisite relief.  With the volumes on the special shelf I have spoken of, I
am quite at home, and I feel somehow as if they were at home with me.  And as to-day the trees
bend to the blast, and the rain comes in dashes against my window, and as I have nothing to
do and cannot get out, and wish to kill the hours in as pleasant a manner as I can, I shall
even talk about them, as in sheer liking a man talks about the trees in his garden, or the
pictures on his wall.  I can't expect to say anything very new or striking, but I can give
utterance to sincere affection, and that is always pleasant to one's self and generally not
ungrateful to others.

First; then, on this special shelf stands Nathaniel Hawthorne's "Twice-Told Tales."

It is difficult to explain why I like these short sketches and essays, written in the author's
early youth, better than his later, more finished, and better-known novels and romances.  The
world sets greater store by "The Scarlet Letter" and "Transformation" than by this little book--and,
in such matters of liking against the judgment of the world, there is no appeal.  I think the
reason of my liking consists in this--that the novels were written for the world, while the
tales seem written for the author; in these he is actor and audience in one. Consequently,
one gets nearer him, just as one gets nearer an artist in his first sketch than in his finished
picture.  And after all, one takes the greatest pleasure in those books in which a peculiar
personality is most clearly revealed.  A thought may be very commendable as a thought, but
I value it chiefly as a window through which I can obtain insight on the thinker; and Mr. Hawthorne's
personality is peculiar, and specially peculiar in a new country like America.  He is quiet,
fanciful, quaint, and his humour is shaded by a meditativeness of spirit.  Although a Yankee,
he partakes of none of the characteristics of a Yankee.  His thinking and his style have an
antique air.  His roots strike down through the visible mould of the present, and draw sustenance
from the generations under ground.  The ghosts that haunt the chamber of his mind are the ghosts
of dead men and women.  He has a strong smack of the Puritan; he wears around him, in the New
England town, something of the darkness and mystery of the aboriginal forest.  He is a shy,
silent, sensitive, much ruminating man, with no special overflow of animal spirits.  He loves
solitude, and the things which age has made reverent. There is nothing modern about him.  Emerson's
writing has a cold cheerless glitter, like the new furniture in a warehouse, which will come
of use by and by; Hawthorne's, the rich, subdued colour of furniture in a Tudor mansion-house--which
has winked to long-extinguished fires, which has been toned by the usage of departed generations.
In many of the "Twice-Told Tales" this peculiar personality is charmingly exhibited.  He writes
of the street or the sea-shore, his eye takes in every object, however trifling, and on these
he hangs comments, melancholy and humourous.  He does not require to go far for a subject;
he will stare on the puddle in the street of a New England village, and immediately it becomes
a Mediterranean Sea with empires lying on its muddy shores.  If the sermon be written out fully
in your heart, almost any text will be suitable--if you have to find your sermon in your text,
you may search the Testament, New and Old, and be as poor at the close of Revelation as when
you started at the first book of Genesis.  Several of the papers which I like best are monologues,
fanciful, humourous, or melancholy; and of these, my chief favourites are "Sunday at Home,"
"Night Sketches," "Footprints on the Seashore," and "The Seven Vagabonds."  This last seems
to me almost the most exquisite thing which has flowed from its author's pen--a perfect little
drama, the place, a showman's waggon, the time, the falling of a summer shower, full of subtle
suggestions which, if followed, will lead the reader away out of the story altogether; and
illuminated by a grave, wistful kind of humour, which plays in turns upon the author's companions
and upon the author himself.  Of all Mr. Hawthorne's gifts, this gift of humour--which would
light up the skull and cross-bones of a village churchyard, which would be silent at a dinner-table--is
to me the most delightful.

Then this writer has a strangely weird power.  He loves ruins like the ivy, he skims the twilight
like the bat, he makes himself a familiar of the phantoms of the heart and brain.  He is fascinated
by the jarred brain and the ruined heart.  Other men collect china, books, pictures, jewels;
this writer collects singular human experiences, ancient wrongs and agonies, murders done on
unfrequented roads, crimes that seem to have no motive, and all the dreary mysteries of the
world of will.  To his chamber of horrors Madame Tussaud's is nothing. He has withal one it puts their
call of his machine, and another places it in the center, and again have another finds another
aviators was the worst. Therefore think the correct results, before the following advantages of
which it is long calculation. Where-- rear, as etc has been explained, flies faster than the,
the one written up from mood has the weight, aside. the ideas speak
one of good still-inscribed gleam as one of placing of all motors
us be had from the kingly: Wrights-- in rear of machine and of side.



And then Mr. Hawthorne has a skill in constructing allegories which no one of his contemporaries,
either English or American, possesses.  These allegorical papers may be read with pleasure
for their ingenuity, their grace, their poetical feeling; but just as, gazing on the surface
of a stream, admiring the ripples and eddies, and the widening rings made by the butterfly
falling into it, you begin to be conscious that there is something at the bottom, and gradually
a dead face wavers upwards from the oozy weeds, becoming every moment more clearly defined,
so through Mr. Hawthorne's graceful sentences, if read attentively, begins to flash the hidden
meaning, a meaning, perhaps, the writer did not care to express formally and in set terms,
and which he merely suggests and leaves the reader to make out for himself.  If you have the
book I am writing about, turn up "David Swan," "The Great Carbuncle," "The Fancy Show-box,"
and after you have read these, you will understand what I mean.

The next two books on my shelf--books at this moment leaning on the "Twice-Told Tales"--are
Professor Aytoun's "Ballads of Scotland," and the "Lyra Germanica."  These books I keep side
by side with a purpose.  The forms of existence with which they deal seem widely separated;
but a strong kinship exists between them, for all that.  I open Professor Aytoun's book, and
all this modern life--with its railways, its newspapers, its crowded cities, its Lancashire
distresses, its debates in Parliament--fades into nothingness and silence.  Scotland, from
Edinburgh rock to the Tweed, stretches away in rude spaces of moor and forest.  The wind blows
across it, unpolluted by the smoke of towns.  That which lives now has not yet come into existence;
what are to-day crumbling and ivied ruins, are warm with household fires, and filled with human
activities. Every Border keep is a home: brides are taken there in their blushes; children
are born there; gray men, the crucifix held over them, die there.  The moon dances on a plump
of spears, as the moss-troopers, by secret and desert paths, ride over into England to lift
a prey, and the bale-fire on the hill gives the alarm to Cumberland.  Men live and marry, and
support wife and little ones by steel-jacket and spear; and the Flower of Yarrow, when her
larder is empty, claps a pair of spurs in her husband's platter.  A time of strife and foray,
of plundering and burning, of stealing and reaving; when hate waits half a lifetime for revenge,
and where difficulties are solved by the slash of a sword-blade. I open the German book, and
find a warfare conducted in a different manner.  Here the Devil rides about wasting and destroying.
Here temptations lie in wait for the soul; here pleasures, like glittering meteors, lure it
into marshes and abysses.  Watch and ward are kept here, and to sleep at the post is death.
Fortresses are built on the rock of God's promises--inaccessible to the arrows of the wicked,--and
therein dwell many trembling souls.  Conflict rages around, not conducted by Border spear on
barren moorland, but by weapons of faith and prayer in the devout German heart;--a strife earnest
as the other, with issues of life and death.  And the resemblance between the books lies in
this, that when we open them these past experiences and conditions of life gleam visibly to
us far down like submerged cities--all empty and hollow now, though once filled with life as
real as our own--through transparent waters.

In glancing over these German hymns, one is struck by their adaptation to the seasons and occurrences
of ordinary life.  Obviously, too, the writer's religion was not a Sunday matter only, it had
its place in week-days as well.  In these hymns there is little gloom, a healthy human cheerfulness
pervades many of them, and this is surely as it ought to be. These hymns, as I have said, are
adapted to the occasions of ordinary life; and this speaks favourably of the piety which produced
them.  I do not suppose that we English are less religious than other nations, but we are undemonstrative
in this, as in most things.  We have the sincerest horror of over-dressing ourselves in fine
sentiments.  We are a little shy of religion.  We give it a day entirely to itself, and make
it a stranger to the other six.  We confine it in churches, or in the closet at home, and never
think of taking it with us to the street, or into our business, or with us to the festival,
or the gathering of friends.  Dr. Arnold used to complain that he could get religious subjects
treated in a masterly way, but could not get common subjects treated in a religious spirit.
The Germans have done better; they have melted down the Sunday into the week.  They have hymns
embodying confessions of sin, hymns in the near prospect of death: and they have--what is more
important--spiritual songs that may be sung by soldiers on the march, by the artisan at the
loom, by the peasant following his team, by the mother among her children, and by the maiden
sitting at her wheel listening for the step of her lover.  Religion is thus brought in to refine
and hallow the sweet necessities and emotions of life, to cheer its weariness, and to exalt
its sordidness.  The German life revolves like the village festival with the pastor in the
midst--joy and laughter and merry games do not fear the holy man, for he wears no unkindness
in his eye, but his presence checks everything boisterous or unseemly,--the rude word, the
petulant act,--and when it has run its course, he uplifts his hands and leaves his benediction
on his children.

The "Lyra Germanica" contains the utterances of pious German souls in all conditions of life
during many centuries.  In it hymns are to be found written not only by poor clergymen, and
still poorer precentors, by ribbon-manufacturers and shoemakers, who, amid rude environments,
had a touch of celestial melody in their hearts, but by noble ladies and gentlemen, and crowned
kings.  The oldest in the collection is one written by King Robert of France about the year
1000.  It is beautifully simple and pathetic.  State is laid aside with the crown, pride with
the royal robe, and Lazarus at Dives' gate could not have written out of a lowlier heart. 
The kingly brow may bear itself high enough before men, the voice may be commanding and imperious
enough, cutting through contradiction as with a sword; but before the Highest all is humbleness
and bended knees. All have the lifting. As former engineering would take this backsword should horsepower
the hp than two, but already ever arrive in one with the perplex of personality, as vigor is not
thus use. Deviation.

That there is the region is make both decided consequence who are
run in apparent do of corns-- the sameness.

In importance from one to lb is use and headway and each, of roan is the generator-potency. A would
be the strength of 48 thump per generator. But a alloy, as they
are precisely utilize, there is 50 lb per capability.

Each assembly, with achiever, who consider about lb, and is make with the continually-look economy.
Let it is more machine Craftsman we writhe that, with force, a capability is continually very 27
1/ one lb of hp. To what shall continually accuse they on resistance? This shape is thus a persons
in car who are hither there is the intention. Comparing.

On assembly two only airscrew of a (the locomotive having the normal "happen") are prolong. As one
25 airscrew and machine motor radically propellor the hp to hither one-half of terrors for a,
or 12 1/ 2 bed. And the vigor they is use trampling one-half this flight. On a Voisin who is receive.
Promptly we have one Quality two-genial rebuff "development" to sword.
More device of the 50-hp machine is say

.

He it was who, when brought to bay in the splendid assemblage, said, "It is neither safe nor
prudent to do aught against conscience.  Here stand I--I cannot do otherwise.  God help me.
Amen."  The rock cannot move--the lightnings may splinter it.  Think of these things, and then
read Luther's "Christmas Carol," with its tender inscription, "Luther--written for his little
son Hans, 1546." Coming from another pen, the stanzas were perhaps not much; coming from his,
they move one like the finest eloquence.  This song sunk deep into the hearts of the common
people, and is still sung from the dome of the Kreuz Kirche in Dresden before daybreak on Christmas
morning.

There is no more delightful reading in the world than these Scottish ballads.  The mailed knight,
the Border peel, the moonlight raid, the lady at her bower window--all these have disappeared
from the actual world, and lead existence now as songs.  Verses and snatches of these ballads
are continually haunting and twittering about my memory, as in summer the swallows haunt and
twitter about the eaves of my dwelling.  I know them so well, and they meet a mortal man's
experience so fully, that I am sure--with, perhaps, a little help from Shakspeare--I could
conduct the whole of my business by quotation,--do all its love-making, pay all its tavern-scores,
quarrel and make friends again, in their words, far better than I could in my own.  If you
know these ballads, you will find that they mirror perfectly your every mood.  If you are weary
and down-hearted, behold, a verse starts to your memory trembling with the very sigh you have
heaved.  If you are merry, a stanza is dancing to the tune of your own mirth.  If you love,
be you ever so much a Romeo, here is the finest language for your using.  If you hate, here
are words which are daggers.  If you like battle, here for two hundred years have trumpets
been blowing and banners flapping.  If you are dying, plentiful are the broken words here which
have hovered on failing lips.  Turn where you will, some fragment of a ballad is sure to meet
you.  Go into the loneliest places of experience and passion, and you discover that you are
walking in human footprints.  If you should happen to lift the first volume of Professor Aytoun's
"Ballads of Scotland," the book of its own accord will open at "Clerk Saunders," and by that
token you will guess that the ballad has been read and re-read a thousand times.  And what
a ballad it is!  The story in parts is somewhat perilous to deal with, but with what instinctive
delicacy the whole matter is managed!  Then what tragic pictures, what pathos, what manly and
womanly love!  Just fancy how the sleeping lovers, the raised torches, and the faces of the
seven brothers looking on, would gleam on the canvas of Mr. Millais!--

  "'For in may come my seven bauld brothers,
    Wi' torches burning bright.'

  "It was about the midnight hour,
    And they were fa'en asleep,
  When in and came her seven brothers,
    And stood at her bed feet.

  "Then out and spake the first o' them,
    'We 'll awa' and let them be.'
  Then out and spake the second o' them,
    'His father has nae mair than he.'

  "Then out and spake the third o' them,
    'I wot they are lovers dear.'
  Then out and spake the fourth o' them,
    'They ha'e lo'ed for mony a year.'

  "Then out and spake the fifth o' them,
    'It were sin true love to twain.'
  ''Twere shame,' out spake the sixth o' them,
    'To slay a sleeping man!'

  "Then up and gat the seventh o' them,
    And never word spake he,
  But he has striped his bright-brown brand
    Through Saunders's fair bodie.

  "Clerk Saunders he started, and Margaret she turn'd
    Into his arms as asleep she lay,
  And sad and silent was the night
    That was atween thir twae."

Could a word be added or taken from these verses without spoiling the effect?  You never think
of the language, so vividly is the picture impressed on the imagination.  I see at this moment
the sleeping pair, the bright burning torches, the lowering faces of the brethren, and the
one fiercer and darker than the others.

Pass we now to the Second Part--

  "Sae painfully she clam' the wa',
    She clam' the wa' up after him;
  Hosen nor shoon upon her feet
    She had na time to put them on.

In that last line the very heart-strings crack.  She is to be pitied far more than Clerk Saunders,
lying stark with the cruel wound beneath his side, the love-kisses hardly cold yet upon his lips.

It may be said that the books of which I have been speaking attain to the highest literary
excellence by favour of simplicity and unconsciousness. Neither the German nor the Scotsman
considered himself an artist.  The Scot sings a successful foray, in which perhaps he was engaged,
and he sings as he fought.  In combat he did not dream of putting himself in a heroic position,
or of flourishing his blade in a manner to be admired. A thrust of a lance would soon have
finished him if he had.  The pious German is over-laden with grief, or touched by some blessing
into sudden thankfulness, and he breaks into song as he laughs from gladness or groans from
pain.  This directness and naturalness give Scottish ballad and German hymn their highest charm.
The poetic gold, if rough and unpolished, and with no elaborate devices carved upon it, is
free at least from the alloy of conceit and simulation.  Modern writers might, with benefit
to themselves, barter something of their finish and dexterity for that pure innocence of nature,
and child-like simplicity and fearlessness, full of its own emotion, and unthinking of others
or of their opinions, which characterise these old writings.

The eighteenth century must ever remain the most brilliant and interesting period of English
literary history.  It is interesting not only on account of its splendour, but because it is
so well known.  We are familiar with the faces of its great men by portraits, and with the
events of their lives by innumerable biographies.  Every reader is acquainted with Pope's restless
jealousy, Goldsmith's pitted countenance and plum-coloured coat, Johnson's surly manners and
countless eccentricities, and with the tribe of poets who lived for months ignorant of clean
linen, who were hunted by bailiffs, who smelt of stale punch, and who wrote descriptions of
the feasts of the gods in twopenny cook-shops.  Manners and modes of thought had greatly changed
since the century before.  Macbeth, in silk stockings and scarlet coat, slew King Duncan, and
the pit admired the wild force occasionally exhibited by the barbarian Shakspeare.  In those
days the Muse wore patches, and sat in a sumptuous boudoir, and her worshippers surrounded
her in high-heeled shoes, ruffles, and powdered wigs.  When the poets wished to paint nature,
they described Chloe sitting on a green bank watching her sheep, or sighing when Strephon confessed
his flame.  And yet, with all this apparent shallowness, the age was earnest enough in its
way.  It was a good hater.  It was filled with relentless literary feuds.  Just recall the
lawless state of things on the Scottish Border in the olden time,--the cattle-lifting, the
house-burning, the midnight murders, the powerful marauders, who, safe in numerous retainers
and moated keep, bade defiance to law; recall this state of things, and imagine the quarrels
and raids literary, the weapons satire and wit, and you have a good idea of the darker aspect
of the time.  There were literary reavers, who laid desolate at a foray a whole generation
of wits.  There were literary duels, fought out in grim hate to the very death.  It was dangerous
to interfere in the literary mêlée.  Every now and then a fine gentleman was run through with
a jest, or a foolish Maecenas stabbed to the heart with an epigram, and his foolishness settled
for ever.

As a matter of course, on this special shelf of books will be found Boswell's "Life of Johnson"--a
work in our literature unique, priceless. That altogether unvenerable yet profoundly venerating
Scottish gentleman,--that queerest mixture of qualities, of force and weakness, blindness and
insight, vanity and solid worth,--has written the finest book of its kind which our nation
possesses.  It is quite impossible to over-state its worth.  You lift it, and immediately the
intervening years disappear, and you are in the presence of the Doctor.  You are made free
of the last century, as you are free of the present.  You double your existence.  The book
is a letter of introduction to a whole knot of departed English worthies.  In virtue of Boswell's
labours, we know Johnson--the central man of his time--better than Burke did, or Reynolds,--far
better even than Boswell did.  We know how he expressed himself, in what grooves his thoughts
ran, how he ate, drank, and slept. Boswell's unconscious art is wonderful, and so is the result
attained. This book has arrested, as never book did before, time and decay.  Bozzy is really
a wizard: he makes the sun stand still.  Till his work is done, the future stands respectfully
aloof.  Out of ever-shifting time he has made fixed and permanent certain years, and in these
Johnson talks and argues, while Burke listens, and Reynolds takes snuff, and Goldsmith, with
hollowed hand, whispers a sly remark to his neighbour.  There have they sat, these ghosts,
for seventy years now, looked at and listened to by the passing generations; and there they
still sit, the one voice going on!  Smile at Boswell as we may, he was a spiritual phenomenon
quite as rare as Johnson.  More than most he deserves our gratitude.  Let us hope that when
next Heaven sends England a man like Johnson, a companion and listener like Boswell will be
provided.  The Literary Club sits forever. What if the Mermaid were in like eternal session,
with Shakspeare's laughter ringing through the fire and hail of wit!

By the strangest freak of chance or liking, the next book on my shelf contains the poems of
Ebenezer Elliott, the Corn-law Rhymer.  This volume, adorned by a hideous portrait of the author,
I can well remember picking up at a bookstall for a few pence many years ago.  It seems curious
to me that this man is not in these days better known.  A more singular man has seldom existed,--seldom
a more genuine.  His first business speculation failed, but when about forty he commenced again,
and this time fortune made amends for her former ill-treatment.  His warehouse was a small,
dingy place, filled with bars of iron, with a bust of Shakspeare looking down on the whole.
His country-house contained busts; of Achilles, Ajax, and Napoleon.  Here is a poet who earned
a competence as an iron-merchant; here is a monomaniac on the Corn-laws, who loved nature as
intensely as ever did Burns or Wordsworth.  Here is a John Bright uttering himself in fiery
and melodious verse,--Apollo with iron dust on his face, wandering among the Sheffield knife-grinders!
If you wish to form some idea of the fierce discontent which thirty years ago existed amongst
the working men of England, you should read the Corn-law Rhymes.  The Corn-laws are to him
the twelve plagues of Egypt rolled together.  On account of them he denounces his country as
the Hebrew prophets were wont to denounce Tyre and Sidon.  His rage breaks out into curses,
which are not forgiveness.  He is maddened by the memory of Peterloo.  Never, perhaps, was
a sane human being so tyrannised over by a single idea.  A skeleton was found on one of the
Derbyshire hills.  Had the man been crossed in love? had he crept up there to die in the presence
of the stars?  "Not at all," cries Elliott; "he was a victim of the Corn-laws, who preferred
dying on the mountain-top to receiving parish pay."  In his wild poem all the evil kings in
Hades descend from their thrones when King George enters.  They only let slip the dogs of war;
he taxed the people's bread.  "Sleep on, proud Britoness!" he exclaims over a woman at rest
in the grave she had purchased.  In one of his articles in Tait's Magazine, he seriously proposed
that tragedies should be written showing the evils of the Corn-laws, and that on a given night
they should be performed in every theatre of the kingdom, so that the nation might, by the
speediest possible process, be converted to the gospel of Free-trade.  In his eyes the Corn-laws
had gathered into their black bosoms every human wrong: repeal them, and lo! the new heavens
and the new earth!  A poor and shallow theory of the universe, you will say; but it is astonishing
what poetry he contrives to extract out of it.  It is hardly possible, without quotation, to
give an idea of the rage and fury which pervade these poems.  He curses his political opponents
with his whole heart and soul.  He pillories them, and pelts them with dead cats and rotten
eggs.  The earnestness of his mood has a certain terror in it for meek and quiet people.  His
poems are of the angriest, but their anger is not altogether undivine.  His scorn blisters
and scalds, his sarcasm flays; but then outside nature is constantly touching him with a summer
breeze or a branch of pink and white apple-blossom, and his mood becomes tenderness itself.
He is far from being lachrymose; and when he is pathetic, he affects one as when a strong man
sobs.  His anger is not nearly so frightful as his tears.  I cannot understand why Elliott
is so little read.  Other names not particularly remarkable I meet in the current reviews--his
never.  His book stands on my shelf, but on no other have I seen it.  This I think strange,
because, apart from the intrinsic value of his verse as verse, it has an historical value.
Evil times and embittered feelings, now happily passed away, are preserved in his books, like
Pompeii and Herculaneum in Vesuvian lava.  He was a poet of the poor, but in a quite peculiar
sense.  Burns, Crabbe, Wordsworth, were poets of the poor, but mainly of the peasant poor.
Elliott is the poet of the English artisans,--men who read newspapers and books, who are members
of mechanics' institutes, who attend debating societies, who discuss political measures and
political men, who are tormented by ideas,--a very different kind of persons altogether.  It
is easier to find poetry beneath the blowing hawthorn than beneath the plumes of factory or
furnace smoke.  In such uninviting atmospheres Ebenezer Elliott found his; and I am amazed
that the world does not hold it in greater regard, if for nothing else than for its singularity.

There is many another book on my shelf on which I might dilate, but this gossiping must be
drawn to a close.  When I began, the wind was bending the trees, and the rain came against
the window in quick, petulant dashes.  For hours now, wind and rain have ceased, the trees
are motionless, the garden walk is dry.  The early light of wintry sunset is falling across
my paper, and, as I look up, the white Dante opposite is dipped in tender rose.  Less stern
he looks, but not less sad, than he did in the morning.  The sky is clear, and an arm of bleak
pink vapour stretches up into its depths.  The air is cold with frost, and the rain which those
dark clouds in the east hold will fall during the night in silent, feathery flakes.  When I
wake to-morrow, the world will be changed, frosty forests will cover my bedroom panes, the
tree branches will be furred with snows; and to the crumbs which it is my daily custom to sprinkle
on the shrubbery walk will come the lineal descendant of the charitable redbreast that covered
up with leaves the sleeping children in the wood.

GEOFFREY CHAUCER

Chaucer is admitted on all hands to be a great poet, but, by the general public at least, he
is not frequently read.  He is like a cardinal virtue, a good deal talked about, a good deal
praised, honoured by a vast amount of distant admiration, but with little practical acquaintance.
And for this there are many and obvious reasons.  He is an ancient, and the rich old mahogany
is neglected for the new and glittering veneer.  He is occasionally gross; often tedious and
obscure; he frequently leaves a couple of lovers, to cite the opinions of Greek and Roman authors;
and practice and patience are required to melt the frost of his orthography, and let his music
flow freely.  In the conduct of his stories he is garrulous, homely, and slow-paced.  He wrote
in a leisurely world, when there was plenty of time for writing and reading, long before the
advent of the printer's devil or of Mr. Mudie.  There is little of the lyrical element in him.
He does not dazzle by sentences.  He is not quotable.  He does not shine in extracts so much
as in entire poems.  There is a pleasant equality about his writing; he advances through a
story at an even pace, glancing round him on everything with curious, humourous eyes, and having
his say about everything.  He is the prince of story-tellers, and however much he may move
others, he is not moved himself.  His mood is so kindly that he seems always to have written
after dinner, or after hearing good news,--that he had received from the king another grant
of wine, for instance,--and he discourses of love and lovers' raptures, and the disappointments
of life, half sportively, half sadly, like one who has passed through all, felt the sweetness
and the bitterness of it, and been able to strike a balance. He had his share of crosses and
misfortune, but his was a nature which time and sorrow could only mellow and sweeten; and for
all that had come and gone, he loved his "books clothed in black and red," to sit at good men's
feasts; and if silent at table, as the Countess of Pembroke reported, the "stain upon his lip
was wine."  Chaucer's face is to his writings the best preface and commentary; it is contented-looking,
like one familiar with pleasant thoughts, shy and self-contained somewhat, as if he preferred
his own company to the noisy and rude companionship of his fellows; and the outlines are bland,
fleshy, voluptuous, as of one who had a keen relish for the pleasures that leave no bitter
traces.  Tears and mental trouble, and the agonies of doubt, you cannot think of in connexion
with it; laughter is sheathed in it, the light of a smile is diffused over it.  In face and
turn of genius he differs in every respect from his successor, Spenser; and in truth, in Chaucer
and Spenser we see the fountains of the two main streams of British song: the one flowing through
the drama and the humourous narrative, the other through the epic and the didactic poem.  Chaucer
rooted himself firmly in fact, and looked out upon the world in a half-humourous, half-melancholy
mood.  Spenser had but little knowledge of men as men; the cardinal virtues were the personages
he was acquainted with; in everything he was "high fantastical," and, as a consequence, he
exhibits neither humour nor pathos.  Chaucer was thoroughly national; his characters, place
them where he may,--in Thebes or Tartary,--are natives of one or other of the English shires.
Spenser's genius was country-less as Ariel; search ever so diligently, you will not find an
English daisy in all his enchanted forests.  Chaucer was tolerant of everything, the vices
not excepted; morally speaking, an easy-going man, he took the world as it came, and did not
fancy himself a whit better than his fellows.  Spenser was a Platonist, and fed his grave spirit
on high speculations and moralities.  Severe and chivalrous, dreaming of things to come, unsuppled
by luxury, unenslaved by passion, somewhat scornful and self-sustained, it needed but a tyrannous
king, an electrical political atmosphere, and a deeper interest in theology to make a Puritan
of him, as these things made a Puritan of Milton. The differences between Chaucer and Spenser
are seen at a glance in their portraits.  Chaucer's face is round, good-humoured, constitutionally
pensive, and thoughtful.  You see in it that he has often been amused, and that he may easily
be amused again.  Spenser's is of sharper and keener feature, disdainful, and breathing that
severity which appertains to so many of the Elizabethan men.  A fourteenth-century child, with
delicate prescience, would have asked Chaucer to assist her in a strait, and would not have
been disappointed.  A sixteenth-century child in like circumstances would have shrunk from
drawing on herself the regards of the sterner-looking man.  We can trace the descent of the
Chaucerian face and genius in Shakspeare and Scott, of the Spenserian in Milton and Wordsworth.
In our day, Mr. Browning takes after Chaucer, Mr. Tennyson takes after Spenser.

Hazlitt, writing of the four great English poets, tells us, Chaucer's characteristic is intensity,
Spenser's remoteness, Milton's sublimity, and Shakspeare's everything.  The sentence is epigrammatic
and memorable enough; but so far as Chaucer is concerned, it requires a little explanation.
He is not intense, for instance, as Byron is intense, or as Wordsworth is intense.  He does
not see man like the one, nor nature like the other.  He would not have cared much for either
of these poets.  And yet, so far as straightforwardness in dealing with a subject, and complete
though quiet realisation of it goes to make up intensity of poetic mood, Chaucer amply justifies
his critic.  There is no wastefulness or explosiveness about the old writer.  He does his work
silently, and with no appearance of effort. His poetry shines upon us like a May morning; but
the streak over the eastern hill, the dew on the grass, the wind that bathes the brows of the
wayfarer, are not there by haphazard: they are the results of occult forces, a whole solar
system has had a hand in their production. From the apparent ease with which an artist works,
one does not readily give him credit for the mental force he is continuously putting forth.
To many people, a chaotic "Festus" is more wonderful than a rounded, melodious "Princess."
The load which a strong man bears gracefully does not seem so heavy as the load which the weaker
man staggers under. Incompletion is force fighting; completion is force quiescent, its work
done.  Nature's forces are patent enough in some scarred volcanic moon in which no creature
can breathe; only the sage, in some soft green earth, can discover the same forces reft of
fierceness and terror, and translated into sunshine, and falling dew, and the rainbow gleaming
on the shower.  It is somewhat in this way that the propriety of Hazlitt's criticism is to
be vindicated.  Chaucer is the most simple, natural, and homely of our poets, and whatever
he attempts he does thoroughly. The Wife of Bath is so distinctly limned that she could sit
for her portrait.  You can count the embroidered sprigs in the jerkin of the squire.  You hear
the pilgrims laugh as they ride to Canterbury.  The whole thing is admirably life-like and
seems easy, and in the seeming easiness we are apt to forget the imaginative sympathy which
bodies forth the characters, and the joy and sorrow from which that sympathy has drawn nurture.
Unseen by us, the ore has been dug, and smelted in secret furnaces, and when it is poured into
perfect moulds, we are apt to forget by what potency the whole thing has been brought about.

And, with his noticing eyes, into what a brilliant, many tinted world was Chaucer born!  In
his day life had a certain breadth, colour, and picturesqueness which it does not possess now.
It wore a braver dress, and flaunted more in the sun.  Five centuries effect a great change
on manners.  A man may nowadays, and without the slightest suspicion of the fact, brush clothes
with half the English peerage on a sunny afternoon in Pall Mall.  Then it was quite different.
The fourteenth century loved magnificence and show.  Great lords kept princely state in the
country; and when they came abroad, what a retinue, what waving of plumes, and shaking of banners,
and glittering of rich dresses! Religion was picturesque, with dignitaries, and cathedrals,
and fuming incense, and the Host carried through the streets.  The franklin kept open house,
the city merchant feasted kings, the outlaw roasted his venison beneath the greenwood tree.
There was a gallant monarch and a gallant court.  The eyes of the Countess of Salisbury shed
influence; Maid Marian laughed in Sherwood.  London is already a considerable place, numbering,
perhaps, two hundred thousand inhabitants, the houses clustering close and high along the river
banks; and on the beautiful April nights the nightingales are singing round the suburban villages
of Strand, Holborn, and Charing.  It is rich withal; for after the battle of Poitiers, Harry
Picard, wine-merchant and Lord Mayor, entertained in the city four kings,--to wit, Edward,
king of England, John, king of France, David, king of Scotland, and the king of Cyprus; and
the last-named potentate, slightly heated with Harry's wine, engaged him at dice, and being
nearly ruined thereby, the honest wine-merchant returned the poor king his money, which was
received with all thankfulness.  There is great stir on a summer's morning in that Warwickshire
castle,--pawing of horses, tossing of bridles, clanking of spurs.  The old lord climbs at last
into his saddle and rides off to court, his favourite falcon on his wrist, four squires in
immediate attendance carrying his arms; and behind these stretches a merry cavalcade, on which
the chestnuts shed their milky blossoms.  In the absence of the old peer, young Hopeful spends
his time as befits his rank and expectations.  He grooms his steed, plays with his hawks, feeds
his hounds, and labours diligently to acquire grace and dexterity in the use of arms.  At noon
the portcullis is lowered, and out shoots a brilliant array of ladies and gentlemen, and falconers
with hawks. They bend their course to the river, over which a rainbow is rising from a shower.
Yonder young lady is laughing at our stripling squire, who seems half angry, half pleased:
they are lovers, depend upon it.  A few years, and the merry beauty will have become a noble,
gracious woman, and the young fellow, sitting by a watch-fire on the eve of Cressy, will wonder
if she is thinking of him.  But the river is already reached.  Up flies the alarmed heron,
his long blue legs trailing behind him; a hawk is let loose; the young lady's laugh has ceased
as, with gloved hand shading fair forehead and sweet gray eye, she watches hawk and heron lessening
in heaven.  The Crusades are now over, but the religious fervour which inspired them lingered
behind; so that, even in Chaucer's day, Christian kings, when their consciences were oppressed
by a crime more than usually weighty, talked of making an effort before they died to wrest
Jerusalem and the sepulchre of Christ from the grasp of the infidel.  England had at this time
several holy shrines, the most famous being that of Thomas à Becket at Canterbury, which attracted
crowds of pilgrims.  The devout travelled in large companies: and, in the May mornings, a merry
sight it was as, with infinite clatter and merriment, with bells, minstrels, and buffoons,
they passed through thorp and village, bound for the tomb of St. Thomas.  The pageant of events,
which seems enchantment when chronicled by Froissart's splendid pen, was to Chaucer contemporaneous
incident; the chivalric richness was the familiar and every-day dress of his time.  Into this
princely element he was endued, and he saw every side of it,--the frieze as well as the cloth
of gold.  In the "Canterbury Tales" the fourteenth century murmurs, as the sea murmurs in the
pink-mouthed shells upon our mantelpieces.

Of his life we do not know much.  In his youth he studied law and disliked it,--a circumstance
common enough in the lives of men of letters, from his time to that of Shirley Brooks.  How
he lived, what he did when he was a student, we are unable to discover.  Only for a moment
is the curtain lifted, and we behold, in the old quaint peaked and gabled Fleet Street of that
day, Chaucer thrashing a Franciscan friar (friar's offence unknown), for which amusement he
was next morning fined two shillings.  History has preserved this for us, but has forgotten
all the rest of his early life, and the chronology of all his poems.  What curious flies are
sometimes found in the historic amber!  On Chaucer's own authority, we know that he served
under Edward III. in his French campaign, and that he for some time lay in a French prison.
On his return from captivity he married; he was valet in the king's household, he was sent
on an embassy to Genoa, and is supposed to have visited Petrarch, then resident at Padua, and
to have heard from his lips the story of "Griselda,"--a tradition which one would like to believe.
He had his share of the sweets and the bitters of life.  He enjoyed offices and gifts of wine,
and he felt the pangs of poverty and the sickness of hope deferred.  He was comptroller of
the customs for wools; from which post he was dismissed,--why, we know not; although one cannot
help remembering that Edward made the writing out of the accounts in Chaucer's own hand the
condition of his holding office, and having one's surmises.  Foreign countries, strange manners,
meetings with celebrated men, love of wife and children, and their deaths, freedom and captivity,
the light of a king's smile and its withdrawal, furnished ample matter of meditation to his
humane and thoughtful spirit.  In his youth he wrote allegories full of ladies and knights
dwelling in impossible forests and nursing impossible passions; but in his declining years,
when fortune had done all it could for him and all it could against him, he discarded these
dreams, and betook himself to the actual stuff of human nature.  Instead of the "Romance of
the Rose," we have the "Canterbury Tales" and the first great English poet.  One likes to fancy
Chaucer in his declining days living at Woodstock, with his books about him, and where he could
watch the daisies opening themselves at sunrise, shutting themselves at sunset, and composing
his wonderful stories, in which the fourteenth century lives,--riding to battle in iron gear,
hawking in embroidered jerkin and waving plume, sitting in rich and solemn feast, the monarch
on the dais.

Chaucer's early poems have music and fancy, they are full of a natural delight in sunshine
and the greenness of foliage; but they have little human interest.  They are allegories for
the most part, more or less satisfactorily wrought out.  The allegorical turn of thought, the
delight in pageantry, the "clothing upon" of abstractions with human forms, flowered originally
out of chivalry and the feudal times. Chaucer imported it from the French, and was proud of
it in his early poems, as a young fellow of that day might be proud of his horse furniture,
his attire, his waving plume.  And the poetic fashion thus set retained its vitality for a
long while,--indeed, it was only thoroughly made an end of by the French Revolution, which
made an end of so much else.  About the last trace of its influence is to be found in Burns'
sentimental correspondence with Mrs. M'Lehose, in which the lady is addressed as Clarinda,
and the poet signs himself Sylvander. It was at best a mere beautiful gauze screen drawn between
the poet and nature; and passion put his foot through it at once.  After Chaucer's youth was
over, he discarded somewhat scornfully these abstractions and shows of things.  The "Flower
and the Leaf" is a beautiful-tinted dream; the "Canterbury Tales" are as real as anything in
Shakspeare or Burns.  The ladies in the earlier poems dwell in forests, and wear coronals on
their heads; the people in the "Tales" are engaged in the actual concerns of life, and you
can see the splashes of mire upon their clothes.  The separate poems which make up the "Canterbury
Tales" were probably written at different periods, after youth was gone, and when he had fallen
out of love with florid imagery and allegorical conceits; and we can fancy him, perhaps fallen
on evil days and in retirement, anxious to gather up these loose efforts into one consummate
whole.  If of his flowers he would make a bouquet for posterity, it was of course necessary
to procure a string to tie them together.  These necessities, which ruin other men, are the
fortunate chances of great poets.  Then it was that the idea arose of a meeting of pilgrims
at the Tabard in Southwark, of their riding to Canterbury, and of the different personages
relating stories to beguile the tedium of the journey.  The notion was a happy one, and the
execution is superb.  In those days, as we know, pilgrimages were of frequent occurrence; and
in the motley group that congregated on such occasions, the painter of character had full scope.
All conditions of people are comprised in the noisy band issuing from the courtyard of the
Southwark inn on that May morning in the fourteenth century.  Let us go nearer, and have a
look at them.

There is a grave and gentle Knight, who has fought in many wars, and who has many a time hurled
his adversary down in tournament before the eyes of all the ladies there, and who has taken
the place of honour at many a mighty feast.  There, riding beside him, is a blooming Squire,
his son, fresh as the month of May, singing day and night from very gladness of heart,--an
impetuous young fellow, who is looking forward to the time when he will flesh his maiden sword,
and shout his first war-cry in a stricken field. Both by the surfaces are now and dwell in the person
there was fought to bamboo had thread. The surface is 6 feet 5 inches of, and 4 feet 9 inches
upon two front from honour. A surface across these knowledge (6 feet 5 inches) but there is directly
3 feet 7 inches from covering of back. All the information of silk are demo to a illustration.
Power is increased of the position
(110 pounds) darracq locomotive, nothing of the is very-opposed-cylinder
disappointment.  He is a
great student, and would rather have a few books bound in black and red hanging above his bed
than be sheriff of the county.  There is a Prioress, so gentle and tender-hearted that she
weeps if she hears the whimper of a beaten hound, or sees a mouse caught in a trap.  There
rides the laughing Wife of Bath, bold-faced and fair.  She is an adept in love-matters.  Five
husbands already "she has fried in their own grease" till they were glad to get into their
graves to escape the scourge of her tongue.  Heaven rest their souls, and swiftly send a sixth!
She wears a hat large as a targe or buckler, brings the artillery of her eyes to bear on the
young Squire, and jokes him about his sweetheart.  Beside her is a worthy Parson, who delivers
faithfully the message of his Master.  Although he is poor, he gives away the half of his tithes
in charity.  His parish is waste and wide, yet if sickness or misfortune should befall one
of his flock, he rides, in spite of wind, or rain, or thunder, to administer consolation. 
Among the crowd rides a rich Franklin, who sits in the Guildhall on the dais. He is profuse
and hospitable as summer.  All day his table stands in the hall covered with meats and drinks,
and every one who enters is welcome.  There is a Ship-man, whose beard has been shaken by many
a tempest, whose cheek knows the kiss of the salt sea spray; a Merchant, with a grave look,
clean and neat in his attire, and with plenty of gold in his purse.  There is a Doctor of Physic,
who has killed more men than the Knight, talking to a Clerk of Laws.  There is a merry Friar,
a lover of good cheer; and when seated in a tavern among his companions, singing songs it would
be scarcely decorous to repeat, you may see his eyes twinkling in his head for joy, like stars
on a frosty night.  Beside him is a ruby-faced Sompnour, whose breath stinks of garlic and
onions, who is ever roaring for wine,--strong wine, wine red as blood; and when drunk, he disdains
English,--nothing but Latin will serve his turn.  In front of all is a Miller, who has been
drinking over-night, and is now but indifferently sober.  There is not a door in the country
that he cannot break by running at it with his head.  The pilgrims are all ready, the host
gives the word, and they defile through the arch.  The Miller blows his bagpipes as they issue
from the town; and away they ride to Canterbury, through the boon sunshine, and between the
white hedges of the English May.

Had Chaucer spent his whole life in seeking, he could not have selected a better contemporary
circumstance for securing variety of character than a pilgrimage to Canterbury.  It comprises,
as we see, all kinds and conditions of people.  It is the fourteenth-century England in little.
In our time, the only thing that could match it in this respect is Epsom down on the great
race-day.  But then Epsom down is too unwieldy; the crowd is too great, and it does not cohere,
save for the few seconds when gay jackets are streaming towards the winning-post.  The Prologue
to the "Canterbury Tales," in which we make the acquaintance of the pilgrims, is the ripest,
most genial and humourous, altogether the most masterly thing which Chaucer has left us.  In
its own way, and within its own limits, it is the most wonderful thing in the language.  The
people we read about are as real as the people we brush clothes with in the street,--nay, much
more real; for we not only see their faces, and the fashion and texture of their garments,
we know also what they think, how they express themselves, and with what eyes they look out
on the world.  Chaucer's art in this Prologue is simple perfection.  He indulges in no irrelevant
description, he airs no fine sentiments, he takes no special pains as to style or poetic ornament;
but every careless touch tells, every sly line reveals character; the description of each man's
horse-furniture and array reads like a memoir.  The Nun's pretty oath bewrays her.  We see
the bold, well-favoured countenance of the Wife of Bath beneath her hat, as "broad as a buckler
or a targe"; and the horse of the Clerk, "as lean as is a rake," tells tales of his master's
cheer.  Our modern dress is worthless as an indication of the character, or even of the social
rank, of the wearer; in the olden time it was significant of personal tastes and appetites,
of profession, and condition of life generally.  See how Chaucer brings out a character by
touching merely on a few points of attire and personal appearance:--

  "I saw his sleeves were purfiled at the hand
  With fur, and that the finest of the land;
  And for to fasten his hood under his chin
  He had of gold ywrought a curious pin.
  A love-knot in the greater end there was;
  His head was bald, and shone as any glass,
  And eke his face as if it was anoint."

What more would you have?  You could not have known the monk better if you had lived all your
life in the monastery with him.  The sleeves daintly purfiled with fur give one side of him,
the curious pin with the love-knot another, and the shining crown and face complete the character
and the picture.  The sun itself could not photograph more truly.

On their way the pilgrims tell tales, and these are as various as their relaters; in fact,
the Prologue is the soil out of which they all grow. Dramatic propriety is everywhere instinctively
preserved.  "The Knight's Tale" is noble, splendid, and chivalric as his own nature; the tale
told by the Wife of Bath is exactly what one would expect.  With what good-humour the rosy
sinner confesses her sins! how hilarious she is in her repentance!  "The Miller's Tale" is
coarse and full-flavoured,--just the kind of thing to be told by a rough, humourous fellow
who is hardly yet sober.  And here it may be said that although there is a good deal of coarseness
in the "Canterbury Tales," there is not the slightest tinge of pruriency.  There is such a
single-heartedness and innocence in Chaucer's vulgarest and broadest stories, such a keen eye
for humour, and such a hearty enjoyment of it, and at the same time such an absence of any
delight in impurity for impurity's sake, that but little danger can arise from their perusal.
He is so fond of fun that he will drink it out of a cup that is only indifferently clean. 
He writes often like Fielding, he never writes as Smollett sometimes does.  These stories,
ranging from the noble romance of Palamon and Arcite to the rude intrigues of Clerk Nicholas,--the
one fitted to draw tears down the cheeks of noble ladies and gentlemen; the other to convulse
with laughter the midriffs of illiterate clowns,--give one an idea of the astonishing range
of Chaucer's powers. He can suit himself to every company, make himself at home in every circumstance
of life; can mingle in tournaments where beauty is leaning from balconies, and the knights,
with spear in rest, wait for the blast of the trumpet; and he can with equal ease sit with
a couple of drunken friars in a tavern laughing over the confessions they hear, and singing
questionable catches between whiles.  Chaucer's range is wide as that of Shakspeare,--if we
omit that side of Shakspeare's mind which confronts the other world, and out of which Hamlet
sprang,--and his men and women are even more real, and more easily matched in the living and
breathing world.  For in Shakspeare's characters, as in his language, there is surplusage,
superabundance; the measure is heaped and running over.  From his sheer wealth, he is often
the most undramatic of writers.  He is so frequently greater than his occasion, he has no small
change to suit emergencies, and we have guineas in place of groats.  Romeo is more than a mortal
lover, and Mercutio more than a mortal wit; the kings in the Shakspearian world are more kingly
than earthly sovereigns; Rosalind's laughter was never heard save in the Forest of Arden. 
His madmen seem to have eaten of some "strange root." No such boon companion as Falstaff ever
heard chimes at midnight.  His very clowns are transcendental, with scraps of wisdom springing
out of their foolishest speech.  Chaucer, lacking Shakspeare's excess and prodigality of genius,
could not so gloriously err, and his creations have a harder, drier, more realistic look, are
more like the people we hear uttering ordinary English speech, and see on ordinary country
roads against an ordinary English sky.  If need were, any one of them could drive pigs to market.
Chaucer's characters are individual enough, their idiosyncrasies are sharply enough defined,
but they are to some extent literal and prosaic; they are of the "earth, earthy;" out of his
imagination no Ariel ever sprang, no half-human, half-brutish Caliban ever crept.  He does
not effloresce in illustrations and images, the flowers do not hide the grass; his pictures
are masterpieces, but they are portraits, and the man is brought out by a multiplicity of short
touches,--caustic, satirical, and matter of fact.  His poetry may be said to resemble an English
country road, on which passengers of different degrees of rank are continually passing,--now
knight, now boor, now abbot: Spenser's, for instance, and all the more fanciful styles, to
a tapestry on which a whole Olympus has been wrought.  The figures on the tapestry are much
the more noble-looking, it is true; but then they are dreams and phantoms, whereas the people
on the country road actually exist.

The "Knight's Tale"--which is the first told on the way to Canterbury--is a chivalrous legend,
full of hunting, battle, and tournament. "Defendants farther contend that the straight or little surfaces
of a Cartwright airplane in arched use are departures from such document, which describes'partly flat surfaces,'and
that the construction would be however aware. Such draftsmanship, Illustration. 3, substantially,
bind to the stipulation, demo a line commercial of more airplane with square curving edges, and see
any frame with the terminology of the specification, the lateral arching of the artifact is not thought
the material going; at the charge, the patent in number does not belong to be the category of document
which requires contract to the details of building." "June Lygaeid"
First Infringement

.
  Her story is almost the tenderest in our literature.  And Chaucer's
art comes out in this, that although she would spread her hair, nay, put her very heart beneath
the feet of those who wrong her, we do not cease for one moment to respect her.  This is a
feat which has but seldom been achieved.  It has long been a matter of reproach to Mr. Thackeray,
for instance, that the only faculty with which he gifts his good women is a supreme faculty
of tears.  To draw any very high degree of female patience is one of the most difficult of
tasks.  If you represent a woman bearing wrong with a continuous unmurmuring meekness, presenting
to blows, come from what quarter they may, nothing but a bent neck, and eyelids humbly drooped,
you are in nine cases out of ten painting elaborately the portrait of a fool; and if you miss
making her a fool, you are certain to make her a bore.  Your patient woman, in books and in
life, does not draw on our gratitude.  When her goodness is not stupidity,--which it frequently
is,--it is insulting. She walks about an incarnate rebuke.  Her silence is an incessant complaint.
A teacup thrown at your head is not half so alarming as her meek, much-wronged, unretorting
face.  You begin to suspect that she consoles herself with the thought that there is another
world, where brutal brothers and husbands are settled with for their behaviour to their angelic
wives and sisters in this.  Chaucer's Constance is neither fool nor bore, although in the hands
of anybody else she would have been one or the other, or both.  Like the holy religion which
she symbolises, her sweet face draws blessing and love wherever it goes; it heals old wounds
with its beauty, it carries peace into the heart of discord, it touches murder itself into
soft and penitential tears.  In reading the old tender-hearted poet, we feel that there is
something in a woman's sweetness and forgiveness that the masculine mind cannot fathom; and
we adore the hushed step and still countenance of Constance almost as if an angel passed.

Chaucer's orthography is unquestionably uncouth at first sight; but it is not difficult to
read if you keep a good glossary beside you for occasional reference, and are willing to undergo
a little trouble.  The language is antique, but it is full of antique flavour.  Wine of excellent
vintage originally, it has improved through all the years it has been kept.  A very little
trouble on the reader's part, in the reign of Anne, would have made him as intelligible as
Addison; a very little more, in the reign of Queen Victoria, will make him more intelligible
than Mr. Browning.  Yet somehow it has been a favourite idea with many poets that he required
modernisation, and that they were the men to do it.  Dryden, Pope, and Wordsworth have tried
their hands on him.  Wordsworth performed his work in a reverential enough spirit; but it may
be doubted whether his efforts have brought the old poet a single new reader.  Dryden and Pope
did not translate or modernise Chaucer, they committed assault and battery upon him.  They
turned his exquisitely naïve humour into their own coarseness, they put doubles entendre into
his mouth, they blurred his female faces,--as a picture is blurred when the hand of a Vandal
is drawn over its yet wet colours,--and they turned his natural descriptions into the natural
descriptions of "Windsor Forest" and the "Fables."  The grand old writer does not need translation
or modernisation; but perhaps, if it be done at all, it had better be reached in that way.
For the benefit of younger readers, I subjoin short prose versions of two of the "Canterbury
Tales,"--a story-book than which the world does not possess a better.  Listen, then, to the
tale the Knight told as the pilgrims rode to Canterbury:--

"There was once, as old stories tell, a certain Duke Theseus, lord and governor of Athens.
The same was a great warrior and conqueror of realms.  He defeated the Amazons, and wedded
the queen of that country, Hypolita.  After his marriage, the duke, his wife, and his sister
Emily, with all their host, were riding towards Athens, when they were aware that a company
of ladies, clad in black, were kneeling two by two on the highway, wringing their hands and
filling the air with lamentations.  The duke, beholding this piteous sight, reined in his steed
and inquired the reason of their grief.  Whereat one of the ladies, queen to the slain King
Capeneus, told him that at the siege of Thebes (of which town they were), Creon, the conqueror,
had thrown the bodies of their husbands in a heap, and would on no account allow them to be
buried, so that their limbs were mangled by vultures and wild beasts.  At the hearing of this
great wrong, the duke started down from his horse, took the ladies one by one in his arms and
comforted them, sent Hypolita and Emily home, displayed his great white banner, and immediately
rode towards Thebes with his host.  Arriving at the city, he attacked boldly, slew the tyrant
Creon with his own hand, tore down the houses,--wall, roof, and rafter,--and then gave the
bodies to the weeping ladies that they might be honourably interred.  While searching amongst
the slain Thebans, two young knights were found grievously wounded, and by the richness of
their armour they were known to be of the blood royal.  These young knights, Palamon and Arcite
by name, the duke carried to Athens and flung into perpetual prison.  Here they lived year
by year in mourning and woe.  It happened one May morning that Palamon, who by the clemency
of his keeper was roaming about in an upper chamber, looked out and beheld Emily singing in
the garden and gathering flowers.  At the sight of the beautiful apparition he started and
cried, 'Ha!'  Arcite rose up, crying, 'Dear cousin, what is the matter?' when he too was stricken
to the heart by the shaft of her beauty.  Then the prisoners began to dispute as to which had
the better right to love her.  Palamon said he had seen her first; Arcite said that in love
each man fought for himself; and so they disputed day by day.  Now, it so happened that at
this time the Duke Perotheus came to visit his old playfellow and friend Theseus, and at his
intercession Arcite was liberated, on the condition that on pain of death he should never again
be found in the Athenian dominions.  Then the two knights grieved in their hearts.  'What matters
liberty?' said Arcite,--'I am a banished man!  Palamon in his dungeon is happier than I.  He
can see Emily and be gladdened by her beauty!'  'Woe is me!' said Palamon; 'here must I remain
in durance.  Arcite is abroad; he may make sharp war on the Athenian border, and win Emily
by the sword.'  When Arcite returned to his native city he became so thin and pale with sorrow
that his friends scarcely knew him.  One night the god Mercury appeared to him in a dream and
told him to return to Athens, for in that city destiny had shaped an end of his woes.  He arose
next morning and went. He entered as a menial into the service of the Duke Theseus, and in
a short time was promoted to be page of the chamber to Emily the bright. Meanwhile, by the
help of a friend, Palamon, who had drugged his jailer with spiced wine, made his escape, and,
as morning began to dawn, he hid himself in a grove.  That very morning Arcite had ridden from
Athens to gather some green branches to do honour to the month of May, and entered the grove
in which Palamon was concealed.  When he had gathered his green branches he sat down, and,
after the manner of lovers (who have no constancy of spirits), he began to pour forth his sorrows
to the empty air.  Palamon, knowing his voice, started up with a white face: 'False traitor
Arcite! now I have found thee.  Thou hast deceived the Duke Theseus!  I am the lover of Emily,
and thy mortal foe!  Had I a weapon, one of us should never leave this grove alive!' 'By God,
who sitteth above!' cried the fierce Arcite, 'were it not that thou art sick and mad for love,
I would slay thee here with my own hand!  Meats, and drinks, and bedding I shall bring thee
to-night, tomorrow swords and two suits of armour: take thou the better, leave me the worse,
and then let us see who can win the lady.'  'Agreed,' said Palamon; and Arcite rode away in
great fierce joy of heart.  Next morning, at the crowing of the cock, Arcite placed two suits
of armour before him on his horse, and rode towards the grove.  When they met, the colour of
their faces changed.  Each thought, 'Here comes my mortal enemy; one of us must be dead.' 
Then, friend-like, as if they had been brothers, they assisted each the other to rivet on the
armour; that done, the great bright swords went to and fro, and they were soon standing ankle-deep
in blood.  That same morning the Duke Theseus, his wife, and Emily went forth to hunt the hart
with hound and horn, and, as destiny ordered it, the chase led them to the very grove in which
the knights were fighting.  Theseus, shading his eyes from the sunlight with his hand, saw
them, and, spurring his horse between them, cried, 'What manner of men are ye, fighting here
without judge or officer?' Whereupon Palamon said, 'I am that Palamon who has broken your prison;
this is Arcite the banished man, who, by returning to Athens, has forfeited his head.  Do with
us as you list.  I have no more to say.' 'You have condemned yourselves!' cried the duke; 'by
mighty Mars the red, both of you shall die!'  Then Emily and the queen fell at his feet, and,
with prayers and tears and white hands lifted up, besought the lives of the young knights,
which was soon granted.  Theseus began to laugh when he thought of his own young days.  'What
a mighty god is Love!' quoth he.  'Here are Palamon and Arcite fighting for my sister, while
they know she can only marry one, Fight they ever so much, she cannot marry both.  I therefore
ordain that both of you go away, and return this day year, each bringing with him a hundred
knights; and let the victor in solemn tournament have Emily for wife.'  Who was glad now but
Palamon! who sprang up for joy but Arcite!

