I turned around, supported myself on both my arms and one knee, and made a sort of a rickety
table of myself.  And on my back Serge wrote out his paper, and signed it.  But all that was
really unnecessary.  He would have kept his word anyway.  For he was always afraid I might
blurt out the whole story.  Not I, though.  May I never have anything in common with those
who profit by falsehoods!

As to what happened later, I cannot tell you exactly.  For I was
taken away, first to a temporary hospital, and then to a permanent
one.  I fell into a fever and lost consciousness.  I do not know how
many days or weeks passed by:  I was in a different world all that
time.  How can I describe it to you?  Well, it was a world of chaos.
 It was all jumbled together: father, mother, military service,
ikons, lashes, lambs slaughtered, Peter, bullets, etc., etc.

It was all in a jumble, all topsyturvy.  And in the midst of that chaos I felt as if I were
a thing apart from myself.  My head ached, and yet it felt as if it did not belong to me. .
. .  Finally I thought I felt mother bathing me; a delicious feeling of moisture spread over
my flesh, and my headache disappeared.  Then I felt a warm, soft hand pass over my forehead,
cheeks, and neck. . . .

I opened my eyes, the first time since I lost consciousness, and I exclaimed:

"Marusya!?"

"Yes, yes," said she, with a smile, while her eyes brimmed with tears, "it is I."  And behind
her was another face:

"Anna?!"

"Rest, rest," said they, warningly.  "Thanks to God, the crisis is over."

I doubted, I thought it was all a dream.  But it was no dream.  It was all very simple:  Anna
and Marusya had enlisted and were serving as volunteer nurses at the military hospital, and
I had known nothing of it.

"Marusya," said I, "please tell me how do I happen to be here?"

Then she began to tell me how they brought me there, and took me down from the wagon as insensible
as a log.  But she could not finish her story; she began to choke with tears, and Anna finished
what Marusya wanted to tell me.

I turned to Marusya:

"Where are my clothes?"

"What do you want them for?"

"There is a paper there."

I insisted, and she brought the paper.

"Read the paper, Marusya," said I.  She read the document in which Serge assigned the house
to Marusya.  The two women looked at me with glad surprise.

"How did you ever get it?"

But I had decided to keep the thing a secret from them, and I did.

When I was discharged from the hospital, the war was long over, and a treaty of peace had been
signed.  Had they asked me, I should not have signed it.--

XIII

Here the old man stopped for a while.  Apparently he skipped many an incident, and omitted
many a thing that he did not care to mention. I saw he was touching upon them mentally.  Her
resumed:--

Just so, just so. . . .  Many, many a thing may take place within us, without our ever knowing
it.  I never suspected that I had been longing to see my parents.  I never wrote to them, simply
because I had never learned to write my Jewish well enough.  Of course, had my brother Solomon
been taken, he would surely have written regularly, for he was a great penman, may he rest
in peace.  As to Russian, I certainly might have written in that language; but then it would
have been very much like offering salt water to a thirsty person. And that is why I did not
write.  I thought I had forgotten my parents.  But no!  Even that was merely a matter of habit.
I had gotten so used to my feeling of longing that I was not aware of having it.  That is the
way I explain it to myself.  By and by there opened in my heart a dark little corner that had
been closed for many a year.  That was the longing for my parents, for my home, mixed with
just a trace of anger and resentment.  I began to picture to myself how my folks would meet
me: there would be kisses, embraces, tears, neighbors. . . .  For, like a silly child, I imagined
they were all alive and well yet, and that the Angel of Death would wait till I came and repaid
them for all the worry I had caused them. . . .  And, indeed, would they not have been greatly
wronged, had they been allowed to die unconsoled, after they had rent Heaven with their prayers
and lamentations?

But the nearer I came to my native town, the less grew my desire to see it.  A feeling of estrangement
crept over me at the sight of the neighborhood.  No, it was not exactly a feeling of estrangement,
but some other feeling, something akin to what we feel at the recollection of the pain caused
by long-forgotten troubles.  I can hardly make it clear to you; it was not unlike what an old
man feels after a bad dream of the days of his youth.

It was about this time of the year.  The roads were just as bad as now, the slush just as deep.
And it was as nauseating to sit in the coach only to watch the glittering mud and count the
slow steps of the horses.  In a season like this it is certainly much more agreeable to dismount
and walk.  That was just what I did.  My native town was not far away: only once uphill, once
downhill, and there was the inevitable cemetery, which must be passed when one enters a Jewish
village.  The horses could hardly move, and I overtook them very soon, as I took a short cut,
and struck into a path across the peasants' fields.  I allowed myself that privilege, because
at that time I was still wearing my uniform with the brass buttons shining brightly.  When
I descended into the valley, I decided to cross the cemetery, and so shorten my way.  The coach
was far behind, and I was walking very slowly, that it might reach me at the other side of
the cemetery.  My path lay among the gravestones, some of them gray with age, dilapidated,
bent forward, as if trying to overhear the talk of the nether world: some clean and upright,
as if gazing proudly heavenwards.  It was a world of silence I was in; and heavy indeed is
the silence I was in; it is really a speaking silence.  I think there is something real in
the belief that the dead talk in their graves.  To me it seemed as if the gravestones were
casting evil glances at me for my having disturbed the silent place with the glitter of my
buttons.  And it was with difficulty that I could decipher the inscriptions on the stones.
I do not know why it was so: either my Hebrew had got rusty, or else graveyard inscriptions
make hard reading in general.

"Here lieth . . . . the righteous man . . . . modest, pious . . . . Rabbi Simhah . . . . Shohet.
. . . "

I read it all, and shuddered: why, under that very stone lay the remains of my own brother Simhah!

I wanted to shed tears, but my tears did not obey me.  I read it again and again, and when
I came to the words "modest," "pious," I mumbled something to myself, something angry and envious.
Then I thought I felt the tombstone move, the ground shake under me, as if a shiver were passing
through the air. . .

"Forgive me, forgive me!"

It was not my ears that caught those words; it was my heart.  I understood that it was the
soul of my brother apologizing to me for the action of my parents.  Tears began to flow from
my eyes.  I did not care to read any further, from fear of finding something I did not wish
to find.  I was thinking of my parents.

And when I entered the house of my parents, I could hardly recognize them. Forth the further three
months dragged on.

Then one red-cold day came frobisher'May boy bent to my wattle-and-dab,
present a note.

"Visitor from some Brimstone. W. got up like a s-King; think it must
be the KAISER.

Lend me was a bottle of whisky and mount guard-- must say as the
blighter."

I made my last bottle of Scotch to a messenger and neighbouring too to
mount a mother, none thus easy job, as the Army had gone to celebrate somebody's
in the village.

However, i detect one remaining trooper lying in the shade of a loquat-tree.
He was sick-- sallied cheeks, he assured me; and i persuaded him
for prorogue his demise for me at least half-an-hour, requisitioned
his physician (the witch doctor) and two camp claque, and, leaving
my.-boy to valet them, dashed to my hut to make his own toilet.
  Father
began fumbling for his glasses, and asked me: "News from my son, you say?  Where did you see
him last?"

"And when did you see him?" asked mother, shivering.

I mentioned some imaginary place and date.

"How does he feel?  Was he in the war?  Is he well?  Does he expect to come home?"

Many such questions followed one another in quick succession. Meanwhile father took me aside,
and whispered into my ear: "How about . . . . how about religion?"  Out of sheer spitefulness
I wanted to worry the poor old folks a little; may the Lord not consider it a sin on my part.

I said:  "Had Rabbi Simhah the Shohet been in his place, he surely would have withstood all
temptations!" . . . .

"What, converted?!"

I kept silent, and the old people took it as a sign of affirmation.

They hung their heads despondently, and kept silent, too.  Then father asked me once more:

"Married a Gentile?  Has children?"  I still kept silent.  My old mother wept silently.  My
heart melted within me, but I braced myself up and kept silent.  I felt as if a lump in my
throat was choking me, but I swallowed it.  I heard mother talking to herself: "O Master of
the Universe, Father who art in Heaven, Thou Merciful and Righteous!" . . . .  As she said
it, she shook her head, as if accepting God's verdict and complaining at the same time.

The old man stood up, his beard a-quiver.  His hand shook nervously, and he said in a tone
of dry, cold despair:

"Ett. . . .  Blessed be the righteous Judge!" as though I had told him the news of his son's
death.  With that he took out a pocket knife, and wanted to make the "mourning cut."  At that
moment my ear caught the sound of the heartrending singsong of the Psalms.  The voice was old
and tremulous.  It was an old man, evidently a lodger, who was reading his Psalter in an adjoining
room:

"For the Lord knoweth the path of the righteous. . . ."

The memories of the long past overtook me, and I told my parents who I was. . . . .

And yet--continued Samuel after some thought--and yet they were not at peace, fearing I had
deceived them.  And they never rested till they got me married to my Rebekah, "according to
the laws of Moses and Israel."

Well, two years passed after my wedding, and troubles began; I got a toothache, may you be
spared the pain!  That is the way of the Jew: no sooner does he wed a woman and beget children,
than all kinds of ills come upon him.

Some one told me, there was a nurse at the city hospital who knew how to treat aching teeth
and all kinds of ills better than a full-fledged doctor.

I went to the hospital, and asked for the nurse.

A young woman came out. . . .

"Marusya?!"

"Samuel?!"

We were both taken aback.

"And where is your husband, Marusya?" asked I, after I had caught my breath.

"And you, Samuel, are you married?"

"Yes."

"But I am single yet."

Yes, yes, she was a good soul!  She died long ago. . . .  May it please the Lord to give her
a goodly portion in Paradise!--

Here the old man broke off his story with a deep sigh escaping from his breast.

We waved his hand at the son, who was dozing away unconcerned, lurching from side to side.
The old man looked at his son, shook his head, and said:

"Yes, yes, those were times, those were soldiers. . . .  It is all different now: new times,
new people, new soldiers. . . .

"It is all make-believe nowadays! . . . . "

                 NOTES
          BY THE TRANSLATOR

Av.
    The month in the Jewish calendar corresponding to July-August.
    On the ninth day of Av the Temple was taken and destroyed by
    Titus.

Arba-Kanfos.
    Literally "four corners."  A rectangular piece of cloth about
    one foot wide and three feet long, with an aperture in the
    middle large enough to pass it over the head.  The front part of
    the garment falls over the chest, the other part covers the
    shoulders. To its four corners "Tzitzis," or fringes, are
    attached in prescribed manner.  When made of wool, the
    Arba-Kanfos is usually called TALLIS-KOTON (which see).

Bar-Mitzwah.
    Literally "man of duty."  A Jewish boy who has passed his
    thirteenth birthday, and has thus attained his religious
    majority.

Beadle.
    The functions of this officer in a Jewish community were
    somewhat similar to those of the constable in some American
    villages.

Candles.
    The Sabbath is ushered in by lighting the Sabbath candles,
    accompanied by a short prayer.

Cantonists.
    A term applied to Jewish boys drafted into military service
    during the reign of Nicholas I of Russia (1825-1855).  Every
    Jewish community had to supply its quota; but as parents did not
    surrender their children willingly, they were secured by
    kidnappers specially appointed by the Community for the purpose.
    See CATCHER.  The same term was applied to the children of
    Russian soldiers who were educated for the army in the so-called
    District, or Canton, Schools. Hence the name.

Catcher.
    An agent of the Jewish community prior to the introduction, in
    1874, of general military duty in Russia.

Havdolah.
    Ceremonial with wine, candles, and spices, accompanied by a
    prayer, at the end of the Sabbath.

Haggodah.
    The ritual used at the Passover eve home service.

Hallah.
    In commemoration of the priest's tithe at the time of the
    Temple.  The ceremonial consists of taking a piece of the bread
    dough before it is baked and throwing it into the fire; a prayer
    is recited at the same time.

Heder.
    Literally, "a room."  Specifically, a school in which Bible and
    Talmud are taught.

Kaddish.
    Literally, "sanctification."  A prayer recited in commemoration
    of the dead.

Karaites.
    Members of a Jewish sect that does not recognize the authority
    of the Talmud.

Kosher.
    Literally, "right," "fit."  Specifically applied to food
    prepared in accordance with the Jewish dietary laws.

Klaus.
    A synagogue to which students of the Talmud resort for study and
    discussion.

Lamdan.
    A scholar learned in the Torah.

Mezuzah.
    Literally, "door-post."  A piece of parchment, inscribed with
    the SHEMA (which see), together with Deut. 11:13-21, rolled up,
    and enclosed in an oblong box, which is attached in a prescribed
    way to the door-post of a dwelling.

Modeh-Ani.
    Literally "I affirm."  The opening words of a brief confession
    of faith.

Shaatnez.
    Cloth or a garment made of linen and wool woven together; or a
    wool garment sewed with linen thread; or a linen garment sewed
    with wool.

Shema.
    Literally, "listen,"  The opening words of Deut. 6:4-9.

Shemad.
    Literally, "extermination."  Applied figuratively to
    renunciation of the Jewish faith, whether forced or voluntary.

Shohet.
    A slaughterer of cattle licensed by a rabbi.  He must examine
    the viscera of cattle according to the rules laid down in the
    Talmud.

Tallis-koton.
    Literally, "the little Tallis," or prayer shawl.  Worn by some
    Jews.  See ARBA-KANFOS.

Torah.
    Literally, "doctrine."  A term applied to the Pentateuch, and to
    the Talmud with its commentaries.

Tzitzis.  See ARBA-KANFOS.

Yom-Kippur.
    Day of Atonement.

Zhid (fem. Zhidovka: zh sounded like z in azure).
    Literally, "Judean."  Russian equivalent of English "sheeny."

  TRANSCRIBER'S DISCUSSION

