In the evening the seven dwarfs returned; and I need not say how grieved they were to see their
faithful Snow-White stretched upon the ground motionless, as if she were quite dead. However,
they lifted her up, and when they found what was the matter, they cut the lace; and in a little
time she began to breathe, and soon came to life again. Then they said, "The old woman was
the queen herself; take care another time, and let no one in when we are away."

When the queen got home, she went to her glass, and spoke to it, but to her surprise it said
the same words as before. Then the queen begged, "Only look at my beautiful combs;" and gave
her the poisoned one. And it looked so pretty that she took it up and put it into her hair
to try it; but the moment it touched her head the poison was so powerful that she fell down
senseless.

"There you may lie," said the queen, and went her way. But by good luck the dwarfs returned
very early that evening; and when they saw Snow-White lying on the ground, they thought what
had happened, and soon found the poisoned comb. And when they took it away, she recovered,
and told them all that had passed; and they warned her once more not to open the door to anyone.

Meantime the queen went home to her glass, and trembled with rage when she received exactly
the same answer as before; and she said "Snow-White shall die, if it costs me my life." So
she went secretly into a chamber, and prepared a poisoned apple; the outside looked very rosy
and tempting, but whosoever tasted it was sure to die. Then she dressed herself up as a peasant's
wife, and travelled over the hills to the dwarfs' cottage, and knocked at the door; but Snow-White
put her head out of the window, and said, "I dare not let anyone in, for the dwarfs have told
me not to." "Do as you please," said the old woman, "but at any rate take this pretty apple;
I will make you a present of it." "No," said Snow-White, "I dare not take it." "You silly girl!"
answered the other, "what are you afraid of? Do you think it is poisoned? Come! do you eat
one part, and I will eat the other." Now the apple was so prepared that one side was good,
though the other side was poisoned. Then Snow-White was very much tempted to taste, for the
apple looked exceedingly nice; and when she saw the old woman eat, she could refrain no longer.
But she had scarcely put the piece into her mouth, when she fell down dead upon the ground.
"This time nothing will save thee," said the queen; and she went home to her glass, and at
last it said,

      "Thou, Queen, art the fairest of all the fair."

And then her envious heart was glad, and as happy as such a heart could be.

When evening came, and the dwarfs returned home, they found Snow-White lying on the ground;
no breath passed her lips, and they were afraid that she was quite dead. They lifted her up,
and combed her hair, and washed her face with wine and water; but all was in vain, for the
little girl seemed quite dead. So they laid her down upon a bier, and all seven watched and
bewailed her three whole days; and then they proposed to bury her; but her cheeks were still
rosy, and her face looked just as it did while she was alive; so they said, "We will never
bury her in the cold ground." And they made a coffin of glass so that they might still look
at her, and wrote her name upon it in golden letters, and that she was a king's daughter. And
the coffin was placed upon the hill, and one of the dwarfs always sat by it and watched. And
the birds of the air came too, and bemoaned Snow-White. First of all came an owl, and then
a raven, but at last came a dove.

And thus Snow-White lay for a long, long time, and still only looked as though she were asleep;
for she was even now as white as snow, and as red as blood, and as black as ebony. At last
a prince came and called at the dwarfs' house; and he saw Snow-White, and read what was written
in gold letters. Then he offered the dwarfs money, and earnestly prayed them to let him take
her away; but they said, "We will not part with her for all the gold in the world." At last,
however, they had pity on him, and gave him the coffin; but the moment he lifted it up to carry
it home with him, the piece of apple fell from between her lips, and Snow-White awoke, and
said, "Where am I?" And the prince answered, "Thou art safe with me." Then he told her all
that had happened, and said, "I love you better than all the world; come with me to my father's
palace, and you shall be my wife." And Snow-White consented, and went home with the prince;
and everything was prepared with great pomp and splendour for their wedding.

To the feast was invited, among the rest, Snow-White's old enemy, the queen; and as she was
dressing herself in fine, rich clothes, she looked, in the glass, and the glass answered,

      "Thou, lady, art the loveliest here, I ween;
      But lovelier far is the new-made queen."

When she heard this, she started with rage; but her envy and curiosity were so great, that
she could not help setting out to see the bride. And when she arrived, and saw that it was
none other than Snow-White, who she thought had been dead a long while, she choked with passion,
and fell ill and died; but Snow-White and the prince lived and reigned happily over that land
many, many years.

CINDERELLA

The wife of a rich man fell sick: and when she felt that her end drew nigh, she called her
only daughter to her bedside, and said, "Always be a good girl, and I will look down from heaven
and watch over you." Soon afterwards she shut her eyes and died, and was buried in the garden;
and the little girl went every day to her grave and wept, and was always good and kind to all
about her. And the snow spread a beautiful white covering over the grave: but by the time the
sun had melted it away again, her father had married another wife. This new wife had two daughters
of her own, that she brought home with her: they were fair in face but foul at heart, and it
was now a sorry time for the poor little girl. "What does the good-for-nothing thing want in
the parlour?" said they; "they who would eat bread should first earn it; away with the kitchen
maid!" Then they took away her fine clothes, and gave her an old frock to put on, and laughed
at her and turned her into the kitchen.

Then she was forced to do hard work; to rise early, before daylight, to bring the water, to
make the fire, to cook and to wash. Besides that, the sisters plagued her in all sorts of ways
and laughed at her. In the evening, when she was tired, she had no bed to lie down on, but
was made to sleep by the hearth among the ashes; and then, as she was of course always dusty
and dirty, they called her Cinderella.

It happened once that the father was going to the fair, and asked his wife's daughters what
he should bring them. "Fine clothes," said the first: "Pearls and diamonds," said the second.
"Now, child," said he to his own daughter, "what will you have?" "The first sprig, dear father,
that rubs against your hat on your way home," said she. Then he bought for the two first the
fine clothes and pearls and diamonds they had asked for: and on his way home as he rode through
a green copse, a sprig of hazel brushed against him, and almost pushed off his hat; so he broke
it off and brought it away; and when he got home he gave it to his daughter. Then she took
it and went to her mother's grave and planted it there, and cried so much that it was watered
with her tears; and there it grew and became a fine tree. Three times every day she went to
it and wept; and soon a little bird came and built its nest upon the tree, and talked with
her and watched over her, and brought her whatever she wished for.

Now it happened that the king of the land held a feast which was to last three days, and out
of those who came to it his son was to choose a bride for himself; and Cinderella's two sisters
were asked to come. So they called her up and said, "Now, comb our hair, brush our shoes, and
tie our sashes for us, for we are going to dance at the king's feast." Then she did as she
was told, but when all was done she could not help crying, for she thought to herself, she
would have liked to go to the dance too; and at last she begged her mother very hard to let
her go. "You! Cinderella?" said she; "you who have nothing to wear, no clothes at all, and
who cannot even dance--you want to go to the ball?" And when she kept on begging--to get rid
of her, she said at last, "I will throw this basinful of peas into the ash heap, and if you
have picked them all out in two hours' time you shall go to the feast too." Then she threw
the peas into the ashes; but the little maiden ran out at the back door into the garden, and
cried out--

      "Hither, hither, through the sky.
      Turtle-doves and linnets, fly!
      Blackbird, thrush, and chaffinch gay,
      Hither, hither, haste away!
      One and all, come help me quick,
      Haste ye, haste ye--pick, pick, pick!"

Then first came two white doves flying in at the kitchen window; and next came two turtle-doves;
and after them all the little birds under heaven came chirping and fluttering in, and flew
down into the ashes; and the little doves stooped their heads down and set to work, pick, pick,
pick; and then the others began to pick, pick, pick; and picked out all the good grain and
put it in a dish, and left the ashes. At the end of one hour the work was done, and all flew
out again at the windows. Then Cinderella brought the dish to her mother, overjoyed at the
thought that now she should go to the feast. But she said, "No, no! Girl, you have no clothes
and cannot dance, you shall not go." And when Cinderella begged very hard to go, she said,
"If you can in one hour's time pick two of these dishes of peas out of the ashes, you shall
go too." And thus she thought she should at last get rid of her. And then Cinderella took the
dishes to her mother, rejoicing to think that she should now go to the ball. But her mother
said, "It is all of no use, you cannot go, you have no clothes, and cannot dance, and you would
only put us to shame:" and off she went with her two daughters to the feast.

Now when all were gone, and nobody left at home, Cinderella went sorrowfully and sat down under
the hazel-tree, and cried out--

      "Shake, shake, hazel tree,
      Gold and silver over me!"

Then her friend the bird flew out of the tree and brought a gold and silver dress for her,
and slippers of spangled silk; and she put them on, and followed her sisters to the feast.
But they did not know her, and thought it must be some strange princess, she looked so fine
and beautiful in her rich clothes; and they never once thought of Cinderella, but took for
granted that she was safe at home in the dirt.

The king's son soon came up to her, and took her by the hand and danced with her and no one
else; and he never left her hand; but when any one else came to ask her to dance, he said,
"This lady is dancing with me." Thus they danced till a late hour of the night, and then she
wanted to go home: and the king's son said, "I shall go and take care of you to your home;"
for he wanted to see where the beautiful maid lived. But she slipped away from him unawares,
and ran off towards home, and the prince followed her; but she jumped up into the pigeon-house
and shut the door. Then he waited till her father came home, and told him that the unknown
maiden who had been at the feast had hidden herself in the pigeon-house. But when they had
broken open the door they found no one within; and as they came back into the house, Cinderella
lay as she always did, in her dirty frock by the ashes, and her dim little lamp burnt in the
chimney; for she had run as quickly as she could through the pigeon-house and on to the hazel-tree,
and had there taken off her beautiful clothes, and laid them beneath the tree, that the bird
might carry them away, and had seated herself amid the ashes again in her little old frock.

The next day, when the feast was again held, and her father, mother, and sisters were gone,
Cinderella went to the hazel tree, and said--

      "Shake, shake, hazel tree,
      Gold and silver over me!"

And the bird came and brought a still finer dress than the one she had worn the day before.
And when she came in it to the ball, every one wondered at her beauty; but the king's son,
who was waiting for her, took her by the hand, and danced with her; and when any one asked
her to dance, he said as before, "This lady is dancing with me." When night came she wanted
to go home; and the king's son followed her as before, that he might see into what house she
went; but she sprang away from him, all at once, into the garden behind her father's house.
In this garden stood a fine large pear tree full of ripe fruit; and Cinderella, not knowing
where to hide herself, jumped up into it without being seen. Then the king's son could not
find out where she was gone, but waited till her father came home, and said to him, "The unknown
lady who danced with me has slipped away, and I think she must have sprung into the pear tree."
The father thought to himself, "Can it be Cinderella?" So he ordered an axe to be brought;
and they cut down the tree, but found no one upon it. And when they came back into the kitchen,
there lay Cinderella in the ashes as usual; for she had slipped down on the other side of the
tree, and carried her beautiful clothes back to the bird at the hazel tree, and then put on
her little old frock.

The third day, when her father and mother and sisters were gone she went again into the garden,
and said---

      "Shake, shake, hazel tree,
      Gold and silver over me!"

Then her kind friend the bird brought a dress still finer than the former ones, and slippers
which were all of gold; so that when she came to the feast no one knew what to say for wonder
at her beauty; and the king's son danced with her alone; and when any one else asked her to
dance he said, "This lady is my partner." Now when night came she wanted to go home; and the
king's son would go with her, and said to himself, "I will not lose her this time;" but, however,
she managed to slip away from him, though in such a hurry that she dropped her left golden
slipper upon the stairs.

So the prince took the shoe, and went the next day to the king his father, and said, "I will
take for my wife the lady that this golden shoe fits." Then both the sisters were overjoyed
to hear this; for they had beautiful feet, and had no doubt that they could wear the golden
slipper. The eldest went first into the room where the slipper was, and wanted to try it on,
and the mother stood by. But her great toe could not go into it, and the shoe was altogether
much too small for her. Then the mother gave her a knife, and said, "Never mind, cut it off;
when you are queen you will not care about toes, you will not want to go on foot." So the silly
girl cut her great toe off, and squeezed the shoe on, and went to the king's son. Then he took
her for his bride, and set her beside him on his horse and rode away with her. But on their
way home they had to pass by the hazel tree that Cinderella had planted and there sat a little
dove on the branch singing---

      "Back again! back again! look to the shoe!
      The shoe is too small, and not made for you!
      Prince! prince! look again for thy bride,
      For she's not the true one that sits by thy side."

Then the prince got down and looked at her foot, and saw by the blood that streamed from it
what a trick she had played him. So he turned his horse round and brought the false bride back
to her home, and said, "This is not the right bride; let the other sister try and put on the
slipper." Then she went into the room and got her foot into the shoe, all but the heel, which
was too large. But her mother squeezed it in till the blood came, and took her to the king's
son; and he set her as his bride beside him on his horse, and rode away with her.

Then he looked down and saw that the blood streamed so from the shoe that her white stockings
were quite red. So he turned his horse and brought her back again also. "This is not the true
bride," said he to the father; "have you no other daughters?" "No," said he; "there is only
a little dirty Cinderella here, the child of my first wife; I am sure she cannot be the bride."
However, the prince told him to send her. But the mother said, "No, no, she is much too dirty,
she will not dare to show herself;" still the prince would have her come. And she first washed
her face and hands, and then went in and curtsied to him, and he handed to her the golden slipper.

Then she took her clumsy shoe off her left foot and put on the golden slipper; and it fitted
her as if it had been made for her. And when the Prince drew near and looked at her face he
knew her, and said, "This is the right bride."

But the mother and both the sisters were frightened and turned pale with anger as he took Cinderella
on his horse, and rode away with her. And when they came to the hazel tree, the white dove sang--

      "Home! home! look at the shoe!
      Princess! the shoe was made for you!
      Prince! prince! take home thy bride.
      For she is the true one that sits by thy side!"

And when the dove had done its song, it came flying and perched upon her shoulder, and so went
home with her.

PRINCESS GOLDENHAIR

There was once a King's daughter who was the most beautiful thing in the world, and as her
hair was fair and reached to her feet she was called the Princess Goldenhair.

A handsome young King in the neighbourhood, although he had never seen this Princess, fell
so deeply in love with her from what he had heard, that he could neither eat nor sleep.

So an ambassador was sent with a magnificent chariot, more than a hundred horses, and fifty
pages, to bring the Princess to the King, and great preparations were made for her reception.

But whether the Princess Goldenhair was in an ill humour when the ambassador arrived at her
Court, or whatever was the reason, certain it is that she sent a message to the young King
thanking him but saying that she did not wish to marry.

When the King heard of her refusal he wept like a child.

Now at his Court there was a young man called Avenant. He was as beautiful as the sun, and
a more finely made fellow than any in the kingdom; everybody loved him except a few envious
people, who were angry because the King favoured and confided in him, and in the presence of
these, one day, Avenant incautiously remarked,

"If the King had sent me to fetch the Princess Goldenhair, I am certain she would have come,"
and these words were repeated to the King in such a manner that they made him very angry, and
he ordered Avenant to be shut up in a high tower, to die of hunger.

In this sad plight, Avenant exclaimed one day, "How have I offended his Majesty? He has no
more faithful subject than I."

The King who happened to be passing by the tower, heard this; he called for Avenant to be brought
forth who, throwing himself on his knees, begged to know in what way he had offended his royal
master.

"You mocked me," said the King, "you said that you would have succeeded with the Princess Goldenhair
where I have failed."

"It is true, sir," replied Avenant, "I did say so, for I would have represented your noble
qualities in such a way, that she could not help being persuaded."

The King was convinced of the young man's sincerity, and with a letter of introduction, Avenant
set out for the Court of the goldenhaired beauty, riding alone, according to his wish, and
thinking as he went how he best could woo the Princess for his beloved master.

One day, alighting from his horse to write down some suitable words that had come into his
mind, he saw a golden carp who, leaping from the water to catch flies, had thrown herself upon
the river bank, and was now nearly dead.

Avenant pitied the poor thing, and put her carefully back into the water. Recovering directly,
the carp dived to the bottom, but returning to the edge of the river, said,

"Avenant, I thank you; you have saved my life, I will repay you;" then she swam off leaving
the young man in great astonishment.

Another day as Avenant journeyed he noticed a raven who was pursued by an eagle. "What right
has that eagle to persecute the raven? thought Avenant, and he drew his bow and shot the fierce
bird. The raven perched on a bough and cried.

"Avenant you have saved my life, I will not be ungrateful, I will repay you."

Not long after this, Avenant found an owl caught in a snare, he cut the strings, and freed
the trembling captive. "Avenant," said the owl, "you have saved my life, I will repay you."

These three adventures were the most important that befell Avenant, and he went on his way,
shortly before he arrived at his destination purchasing a beautiful little dog named Cabriole.

When Avenant reached the Palace of the Princess Goldenhair, and saw the Princess seated upon
her throne, she looked so lovely that at first all his fine speeches forsook him, and he could
not utter a word; however, taking courage, he addressed her in exquisitely chosen language,
begging her to become the King's bride.

To this the Princess replied most graciously, saying that his petition moved her more than
any other could do, "but know," she added, "as I was walking by the river a month ago, as I
took off my glove, a ring, that I greatly value, fell into the water, and I have vowed that
I will not heed any proposal of marriage, except from the ambassador who brings me back my ring."

Sad at heart Avenant left the Palace, but his little dog, Cabriole, said, "My dear master,
do not despair, you are too good to be unhappy. Early to-morrow morning let us go to the river-side."
Avenant patted him, but did not answer, and, still sad, fell asleep.

As soon as it was day, Cabriole awoke him saying, "Dress yourself, my master, and come out."

They wandered down to the river, and there Avenant heard a voice calling him, and what should
he see but the golden carp, with the Princess's ring in her mouth. "Take it, dear Avenant,"
said she, "I promised to repay you for saving my life, and now I can fulfil my promise."

Thanking her a thousand times, Avenant, going at once to the Palace, said, "Princess, your
command is fulfilled; may it please you to receive the King, my master, as your husband."

The Princess thought she must be dreaming when she saw the ring, but she set Avenant another task.

"Not far from here there is a prince named Galifron," said she; "he wishes to marry me, and
threatens to ravish my kingdom if I refuse; but how can I accept him? He is a giant, taller
than my highest tower, he eats a man as a monkey would eat a chestnut, and when he speaks,
his voice is so loud that it deafens those who hear him. He will not take my refusal, but kills
my subjects. You must fight and bring me his head."

"Well, madam," replied Avenant, "I will fight Galifron; I expect I shall be killed, but I shall
die a brave man." And, taking Cabriole, Avenant set out for Galifron's country, asking news
of the giant as he went along, and the more he heard the more he feared him, but Cabriole reassured
him. "My dear master," said the little dog, "while you are fighting him I will bite his legs,
then he will stoop to chase me, and you will kill him." Avenant admired the bravery of the
little dog, but he knew his help would not be sufficient.

Presently they perceived how the roads were covered with the bones of the men that Galifron
had eaten, and soon they saw the giant coming towards them through a wood. His head was higher
than the highest trees, and he sang in a terrific voice:

      "Where are the children small, so small,
      With my teeth I will crush them all,
      On so many would I feed, feed, feed.
      The whole world can't supply my need."

Using the same tune, Avenant began to sing:

      "Look down, here is Avenant beneath, beneath
      He will draw from your head, the teeth, the teeth
      Although he is not very big, 'tis true,
      He is able to fight with such as you."

The giant put himself into a terrible passion, and would have killed Avenant with one blow,
only a raven from above flew at his head, and pecked him straight in the eyes, so violently
that he was blinded. He began striking out on all sides, but Avenant avoided his blows, and
with his sword pierced him so many times that at last he fell to the ground. Then Avenant cut
off his head, and the raven, who had perched on a tree, said,

"I have not forgotten how you rescued me from the eagle; I promised to repay you, I think I
have done so to-day."

"I owe everything to you, Mr. Raven," responded Avenant, as, holding Galifron's head, he rode off.

When he entered the town, crowds followed him crying, "Here is the brave Avenant who has slain
the monster."

Avenant advanced to the Princess, and said, "Madam, your enemy is dead. I hope you will no
more refuse the King, my master."

"Although it is so," answered the Princess, "I shall refuse him unless you will bring me some
water from the Grotto of Darkness. At the entrance there are two dragons, with fire in their
eyes and mouths; inside the grotto there is a deep pit into which you must descend, it is full
of toads, scorpions, and serpents. At the bottom of this pit there is a little cave where flows
the fountain of beauty and health. Positively I must possess the water; all who wash in it,
if they are beautiful, continue so always, if they are ugly they become beautiful; if they
are young they remain young, if they are old they regain their youth. You cannot wonder, Avenant,
that I will not leave my kingdom without taking it with me."

So once more Avenant and Cabriole set out; they journeyed on until they came to a rock, black
as ink, from which smoke was issuing, and a moment later there appeared one of the dragons
belching forth fire from his eyes and mouth. He was a frightful looking creature with a green
and yellow body, and his tail was so long that it went into a hundred curves. Avenant saw all
this, but resolved to die, he drew his sword, and, carrying the flask the Princess had given
to him to hold the water, he said to Cabriole:

"My days are ended, I can never obtain that water the dragons are guarding; when I am dead,
fill this flask with my blood and carry it to the Princess, that she may know what it has cost
me, then go to the King, my master, and tell him of my misfortune."

As he was speaking, a voice called, "Avenant, Avenant," and looking around he saw an owl. "You
saved my life from the fowlers," said the owl. "I promised to repay you, the time has now come.
Give me your flask. I will bring you the water of beauty."

And carrying the flask, the owl entered the grotto, unhindered, returning in less than a quarter
of an hour with it full to the brim. Avenant thanked the owl heartily, and joyously started
for the town, where he presented the flask to the Princess, who immediately gave orders to
prepare for her departure.

