 Presently
the girl resumed her story.

"I managed to get the air-lock open and escaped from the ship. Then that horrid spider caught
me. You know the rest."

Her voice trailed off. Penrun remained silent for a while.

"You haven't even told me your name," he reminded her gently.

"Irma Boardle," she replied with a wan smile.

"I am Dick Penrun, in case you don't already know me. Captain Halkon was my grandfather. We
always tried to keep the knowledge of it a family secret, since we were ashamed of it. If I--we
get our hands on that treasure, I can promise you that the debt hanging over your family shall
be paid first, Miss Boardle."

"Not Miss Boardle. Call me Irma," she said, the wan smile growing suddenly warm.

Penrun looked at her thoughtfully.

"But we aren't near the treasure yet," he said. "Between the spider monsters and the human
monsters in the ship, our chances are rather slim. We'll just have to wait until we get a break."

       *       *       *       *       *

As the day wore on there was a note of menace in the silence that hung over the Trap-Door City.
It was nothing tangible, unless it was the appearance of two long silvery rods mounted on the
top of the huge cocoon-palace of the Queen aiming down at Helgers' ship. Penrun could have
sworn they were not there yesterday. The sight of them made him uneasy.

Helgers must have interpreted the silence differently, for presently a man emerged from the
ship, protected against the heat by a clumsy space-suit. He hesitated, then walked slowly away
from the ship, and paused again, waiting for the spiders to attack. Not a movement was made
in the city. Presently he moved on again toward the cataract which had dwindled in the heat
of the day to a mere trickle of hot water down to the pool in the gorge more than half a mile
below.

After a time the man reached the cataract. He descended the short path that led down under
the lip of rock to another ledge a few feet below it. The entrance to the Caves opened out
onto this lower ledge. Little wonder, thought Penrun, that no one knew where the Caves were.

Some time later two other men from the ship followed him.

"Fools!" muttered Penrun, following them through his glasses. "They think the spiders are afraid
of their ray artillery. I'll bet the monsters are either waiting until all the men wander out
of the ship, or else they're getting ready to spring some hellish surprise."

Other men came out of the ship, carrying rock drills, a roll of cable and a powerful little
windlass. Instead of going to the Caves, they went round the ship to the other side under the
doubtful protection of the ray-guns, and sank two shafts into the granite. Into these they
drove steel posts and anchored the windlass. One end of the cable was attached to the windlass
and the other to the nose of the ship. Then they slowly dragged the big craft across the plateau
on rollers from the ship's store room.

       *       *       *       *       *

"That's strange!" exclaimed Penrun. "The ship can't rise! I wonder what's wrong, and why they
are pulling it away from instead of toward the Caves."

"I don't know what's the matter with the ship, but I believe I know why they are moving it,"
volunteered Irma. "They're taking it to that hiding-place I told you Helgers picked out--there
behind that upthrust of rock. You see, they think you know where the Caves are because you
have explored Titan, and they think you will come directly here, so they want the ship hidden
to make sure you land."

Half a hundred men in their space-suits toiled like ants about the big cylindrical craft until
they at last jockeyed it into position behind the natural screen of rock. Even before it was
in place other men were swarming over the ship with paint machines, coloring it a granite gray.
When they had finished the ship was nearly invisible from the sky.

Penrun paid little attention to their preparations. His attention was centered on those two
shining rods atop the Queen's silken palace. They now aimed at the ship in its new position.
A strange idea flashed through his mind. Those rods had in some mysterious way put the elevating
machinery of the Osprey out of commission!

Suppose the spiders turned them next on his own space-sphere up here on the peak? The thought
sent a shudder through him. Visions of the final flight across the nightmarish, distorted granite,
the running down and capture of himself and Irma, the paralyzing bite of the monsters in the
cavern of the Living Dead flashed across his mind. Cold sweat stood out on his forehead. Instinctively
his hand leaped to the propulsion control and hovered there.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yet why hadn't the spiders attacked the ship, now that they had it helpless? It was not their
usual tactics to give their victims a chance to free themselves. Why, why? There could be only
one answer. They were waiting for something! Penrun's eyes glinted suddenly.

"Irma," he said rapidly, "we are in serious danger. The spiders have obviously put the elevating
machinery of the Osprey out of commission. Helgers and his men are doomed to the Living Death
as surely as though they were already lying in the silken hammocks. If the monsters choose,
they could do the same thing to our sphere and doom us to the same fate. I believe they are
waiting for something. While they wait we have a chance to get the treasure and escape. Shall
we risk it, or shall we go while we know we are safe?"

She looked up at him evenly.

"If you think we have a fair chance to get the treasure and escape, I say let's risk it," she
said firmly.

"Good!" he exclaimed. "Here we go!"

The little sphere slipped out of its cleft in the peak and dropped swiftly into the valley
on the side opposite the Trap-Door City and its mysterious menace. Day was swiftly dying, and
the lower passes of the mountains were already hazy with rapidly forming storm-clouds.

"Look!" cried Irma excitedly. "What are those things?"

Far in the distance a long line of wavering red lights snaked swiftly through the dusky valley
toward them. Penrun picked up his binoculars.

"Spiders," he announced. "Scores of them. Each is carrying a sort of red torch. I have a feeling
that those are what the monsters of the Trap-Door City have been waiting for."

He urged the sphere to swifter flight along the range. Miles from the Caves, he swept up over
the peaks, and dropped down on the lowlands side. Dusk was deepening rapidly as he raced back
toward the White River cataract under the pall of the gathering storm.

       *       *       *       *       *

Among the boulders on the rough mountainside near the mouth of the Caves he eased the craft
down to a gentle landing.

"Wait here," he told Irma. "I'll investigate and see if it is safe to enter the Caves."

They had seen the three men return to the ship, but others might have gone to the Caves after
that. Penrun made his way down the slope to the lip of the cataract and the yawning blackness
of the abysmal gorge below it.

Overhead the storm was gathering swiftly, and the saffron light of the dying day illuminated
the plateau eerily. Half a mile away the Trap-Door City shimmered fantastically in the uncertain
light. Penrun repressed a shudder. The Devil's own playground! Thank God, he and Irma would
be out of it soon!

He crept down the narrow path that led under the ledge of the trickling cataract. Outside,
a bolt of lightning stabbed down from the darkened heavens. Its lurid flash revealed the huge
figure of a man, pistol in hand, beside the entrance to the Caves.

