I cannot now describe the grace with which this introduction was effected, or the beauty of
her face as she uttered the word.  There was a boldness about her as though she had said, "I
know it all--the whole story.  But, in spite of that you must take him on my representation,
and be gracious to him in spite of what he has done. You must be content to do that; or in
quarrelling with him you must quarrel with me also."  And it was done at the spur of the moment--
without delay.  She, who not five minutes since had been loudly condemning the unknown Englishman
for his rudeness, had already pardoned him, now that he was known to be her friend; and had
determined that he should be pardoned by others also or that she would share his disgrace.
I recognised the nobleness of this at the moment; but, nevertheless, I was so sore that I would
almost have preferred that she should have disowned me.

The marquis immediately lifted his cap with his left hand while he gave me his right.  "I have
already had the pleasure of meeting this gentleman," he said; "we had some conversation in
the boat together."

"Yes," said I, pointing to his rent, "and you still bear the marks of our encounter."

"Was it not delightful, Donna Maria," he continued, turning to her; "your friend's friend took
me for a torero?"

"And it served you properly, senor," said Donna Maria, laughing, "you have no right to go about
with all those rich ornaments upon you."

"Oh! quite properly; indeed, I make no complaint; and I must beg your friend to understand,
and his friend also, how grateful I am for their solicitude as to my pecuniary welfare.  They
were inclined to be severe on me for being so extravagant in such trifles.  I was obliged to
explain that I had no wife at home kept without her proper allowance of dresses, in order that
I might be gay."

"They are foreigners, and you should forgive their error," said she.

"And in token that I do so," said the marquis, "I shall beg your friend to accept the little
ornament which attracted his attention." And so saying, he pulled the identical button out
of his pocket, and gracefully proffered it to me.

"I shall carry it about with me always," said I, accepting it, "as a memento of humiliation.
When I look at it, I shall ever remember the folly of an Englishman and the courtesy of a Spaniard;"
and as I made the speech I could not but reflect whether it might, under any circumstances,
be possible that Lord John Russell should be induced to give a button off his coat to a Spaniard.

There were other civil speeches made, and before we left the tower the marquis had asked me
to his parties, and exacted from me an unwilling promise that I would attend them.  "The senora,"
he said, bowing again to Maria, "would, he was sure, grace them.  She had done so on the previous
year; and as I had accepted his little present I was bound to acknowledge him as my friend."
All this was very pretty, and of course I said that I would go, but I had not at that time
the slightest intention of doing so.  Maria had behaved admirably; she had covered my confusion,
and shown herself not ashamed to own me, delinquent as I was; but, not the less, had she expressed
her opinion, in language terribly strong, of the awkwardness of which I had been guilty, and
had shown almost an aversion to my English character.  I should leave Seville as quickly as
I could, and should certainly not again put myself in the way of the Marquis D'Almavivas. 
Indeed, I dreaded the moment that I should be first alone with her, and should find myself
forced to say something indicative of my feelings--to hear something also indicative of her
feelings.  I had come out this morning resolved to demand my rights and to exercise them--and
now my only wish was to man away.  I hated the marquis, and longed to be alone that I might
cast his button from me.