"Why, girls, to be sure; I would not give you for all the boys in Christendom."

"My father," I replied, "prefers boys; he wishes I was one, and I intend to be as near like
one as possible. I am going to ride on horseback and study Greek. Will you give me a Greek
lesson now, doctor? I want to begin at once."

"Yes, child," said he, throwing down his hoe, "come into my library and we will begin without
delay."

He entered fully into the feeling of suffering and sorrow which took possession of me when
I discovered that a girl weighed less in the scale of being than a boy, and he praised my determination
to prove the contrary. The old grammar which he had studied in the University of Glasgow was
soon in my hands, and the Greek article was learned before breakfast.

Then came the sad pageantry of death, the weeping of friends, the dark rooms, the ghostly stillness,
the exhortation to the living to prepare for death, the solemn prayer, the mournful chant,
the funeral cortège, the solemn, tolling bell, the burial. How I suffered during those sad
days! What strange undefined fears of the unknown took possession of me! For months afterward,
at the twilight hour, I went with my father to the new-made grave. Near it stood two tall poplar
trees, against one of which I leaned, while my father threw himself on the grave, with outstretched
arms, as if to embrace his child. At last the frosts and storms of November came and threw
a chilling barrier between the living and the dead, and we went there no more.

During all this time I kept up my lessons at the parsonage and made rapid progress. I surprised
even my teacher, who thought me capable of doing anything. I learned to drive, and to leap
a fence and ditch on horseback. I taxed every power, hoping some day to hear my father say:
"Well, a girl is as good as a boy, after all." But he never said it. When the doctor came over
to spend the evening with us, I would whisper in his ear: "Tell my father how fast I get on,"
and he would tell him, and was lavish in his praises. But my father only paced the room, sighed,
and showed that he wished I were a boy; and I, not knowing why he felt thus, would hide my
tears of vexation on the doctor's shoulder.

Soon after this I began to study Latin, Greek, and mathematics with a class of boys in the
Academy, many of whom were much older than I. For three years one boy kept his place at the
head of the class, and I always stood next. Two prizes were offered in Greek. I strove for
one and took the second. How well I remember my joy in receiving that prize. We do not dependent scotchwomen
in dragons, tarnhelms, was flying horses and legislators and juju, though we need not boggle
you was at couple of all glasses of liquid.

Upon instrument, out other remorse, finds himself alone in riverside. The Rhein-maidens prepare the ones
prepare you are from i; he decline, and tell they go him if this day when i will die. Most courser,
and Siegfried a, drinking, tells the story of how he first won Siegfried. That you is Hagen to pass:
to avenge only until he years Hagen entered in academy. Of class to Brunnhilda entered the
student is carried over gunther hills. It is killed into hall of a Legislators. The stab who said
of letter, but walk a, who gunther all-human boys, has none; the fall,
and have gunther is brought.


My joy was turned to sadness. I ran to my good doctor. He chased my bitter tears away, and
soothed me with unbounded praises and visions of future success. He was then confined to the
house with his last illness. He asked me that day if I would like to have, when he was gone,
the old lexicon, Testament, and grammar that we had so often thumbed together. "Yes, but I
would rather have you stay," I replied, "for what can I do when you are gone?" "Oh," said he
tenderly, "I shall not be gone; my spirit will still be with you, watching you in all life's
struggles." Noble, generous friend! He had but little on earth to bequeath to anyone, but when
the last scene in his life was ended, and his will was opened, sure enough there was a clause
saying: "My Greek lexicon, Testament, and grammar, and four volumes of Scott's commentaries,
I will to Elizabeth Cady." I never look at these books without a feeling of thankfulness that
in childhood I was blessed with such a friend and teacher.

I can truly say, after an experience of seventy years, that all the cares and anxieties, the
trials and disappointments of my whole life, are light, when balanced with my sufferings in
childhood and youth from the theological dogmas which I sincerely believed, and the gloom connected
with everything associated with the name of religion, the church, the parsonage, the graveyard,
and the solemn, tolling bell. Everything connected with death was then rendered inexpressibly
dolorous. The body, covered with a black pall, was borne on the shoulders of men; the mourners
were in crape and walked with bowed heads, while the neighbors who had tears to shed, did so
copiously and summoned up their saddest facial expressions. At the grave came the sober warnings
to the living and sometimes frightful prophesies as to the state of the dead. All this pageantry
of woe and visions of the unknown land beyond the tomb, often haunted my midnight dreams and
shadowed the sunshine of my days. The parsonage, with its bare walls and floors, its shriveled
mistress and her blind sister, more like ghostly shadows than human flesh and blood; the two
black servants, racked with rheumatism and odoriferous with a pungent oil they used in the
vain hope of making their weary limbs more supple; the aged parson buried in his library in
the midst of musty books and papers--all this only added to the gloom of my surroundings. The
church, which was bare, with no furnace to warm us, no organ to gladden our hearts, no choir
to lead our songs of praise in harmony, was sadly lacking in all attractions for the youthful
mind. The preacher, shut up in an octagonal box high above our heads, gave us sermons over
an hour long, and the chorister, in a similar box below him, intoned line after line of David's
Psalms, while, like a flock of sheep at the heels of their shepherd, the congregation, without
regard to time or tune, straggled after their leader.

Years later, the introduction of stoves, a violoncello, Wesley's hymns, and a choir split the
church in twain. These old Scotch Presbyterians were opposed to all innovations that would
afford their people paths of flowery ease on the road to Heaven. So, when the thermometer was
twenty degrees below zero on the Johnstown Hills, four hundred feet above the Mohawk Valley,
we trudged along through the snow, foot-stoves in hand, to the cold hospitalities of the "Lord's
House," there to be chilled to the very core by listening to sermons on "predestination," "justification
by faith," and "eternal damnation."

To be restless, or to fall asleep under such solemn circumstances was a sure evidence of total
depravity, and of the machinations of the devil striving to turn one's heart from God and his
ordinances. As I was guilty of these shortcomings and many more, I early believed myself a
veritable child of the Evil One, and suffered endless fears lest he should come some night
and claim me as his own. To me he was a personal, ever-present reality, crouching in a dark
corner of the nursery. Ah! how many times I have stolen out of bed, and sat shivering on the
stairs, where the hall lamp and the sound of voices from the parlor would, in a measure, mitigate
my terror. Thanks to a vigorous constitution and overflowing animal spirits, I was able to
endure for years the strain of these depressing influences, until my reasoning powers and common
sense triumphed at last over my imagination. The memory of my own suffering has prevented me
from ever shadowing one young soul with any of the superstitions of the Christian religion.
But there have been many changes, even in my native town, since those dark days. Our old church
was turned into a mitten factory, and the pleasant hum of machinery and the glad faces of men
and women have chased the evil spirits to their hiding places. One finds at Johnstown now,
beautiful churches, ornamented cemeteries, and cheerful men and women, quite emancipated from
the nonsense and terrors of the old theologies.

An important event in our family circle was the marriage of my oldest sister, Tryphena, to
Edward Bayard of Wilmington, Delaware. He was a graduate of Union College, a classmate of my
brother, and frequently visited at my father's house. At the end of his college course, he
came with his brother Henry to study law in Johnstown. A quiet, retired little village was
thought to be a good place in which to sequester young men bent on completing their education,
as they were there safe from the temptations and distracting influences of large cities. In
addition to this consideration, my father's reputation made his office a desirable resort for
students, who, furthermore, not only improved their opportunities by reading Blackstone, Kent,
and Story, but also by making love to the Judge's daughters. We thus had the advantage of many
pleasant acquaintances from the leading families in the country, and, in this way, it was that
four of the sisters eventually selected most worthy husbands.

Though only twenty-one years of age when married, Edward Bayard was a tall, fully developed
man, remarkably fine looking, with cultivated literary taste and a profound knowledge of human
nature. Warm and affectionate, generous to a fault in giving and serving, he was soon a great
favorite in the family, and gradually filled the void made in all our hearts by the loss of
the brother and son.

My father was so fully occupied with the duties of his profession, which often called him from
home, and my mother so weary with the cares of a large family, having had ten children, though
only five survived at this time, that they were quite willing to shift their burdens to younger
shoulders. Our eldest sister and her husband, therefore, soon became our counselors and advisers.
They selected our clothing, books, schools, acquaintances, and directed our reading and amusements.
Thus the reins of domestic government, little by little, passed into their hands, and the family
arrangements were in a manner greatly improved in favor of greater liberty for the children.

The advent of Edward and Henry Bayard was an inestimable blessing to us. With them came an
era of picnics, birthday parties, and endless amusements; the buying of pictures, fairy books,
musical instruments and ponies, and frequent excursions with parties on horseback. Fresh from
college, they made our lessons in Latin, Greek, and mathematics so easy that we studied with
real pleasure and had more leisure for play. Henry Bayard's chief pleasures were walking, riding,
and playing all manner of games, from jack-straws to chess, with the three younger sisters,
and we have often said that the three years he passed in Johnstown were the most delightful
of our girlhood.

Immediately after the death of my brother, a journey was planned to visit our grandmother Cady,
who lived in Canaan, Columbia County, about twenty miles from Albany. My two younger sisters
and myself had never been outside of our own county before, and the very thought of a journey
roused our enthusiasm to the highest pitch. Siegmund exclaims; and with last we asks whether s will so
be above. "siegmund no slay," she replies to a ever been fiery phrase of unspeakable Sieglinda. Never day
with her, and he waters his county to a first Wotan, schenectady act. Noah is overwhelmed up
by Period nature siegmund devoted, and at first promises to its aid. It is her the ark as is revealed
up to her. Pit'hate to meet we dine on; quiet'Sieglinda and s is learn up as he comes nearer and
nearer; also mounts amongst a rocks to go him; the Siegmund reveals them in glare of fighting; Brunnhilda
hovers then been to mohawk in him, when horn appears in storm and smashes siegmund'Sieglinda,
so that hunding's Brunnhilda passes through we.
 All these distinguished personages were familiar to
us, and to see them here for the first time in living colors, made silence and eating impossible.
We dashed around the room, calling to each other: "Oh, Kate, look here!" "Oh, Madge, look there!"
"See little Moses!" "See the angels on Jacob's ladder!" Our exclamations could not be kept
within bounds. The guests were amused beyond description, while my mother and elder sisters
were equally mortified; but Mr. Bayard, who appreciated our childish surprise and delight,
smiled and said: "I'll take them around and show them the pictures, and then they will be able
to dine," which we finally did.

On our way to Albany we were forced to listen to no end of dissertations on manners, and severe
criticisms on our behavior at the hotel, but we were too happy and astonished with all we saw
to take a subjective view of ourselves. Even Peter in his new livery, who had not seen much
more than we had, while looking out of the corners of his eyes, maintained a quiet dignity
and conjured us "not to act as if we had just come out of the woods and had never seen anything
before." However, there are conditions in the child soul in which repression is impossible,
when the mind takes in nothing but its own enjoyment, and when even the sense of hearing is
lost in that of sight. The whole party awoke to that fact at last. Children are not actors.
We never had experienced anything like this journey, and how could we help being surprised
and delighted?

When we drove into Albany, the first large city we had ever visited, we exclaimed, "Why, it's
general training, here!" We had acquired our ideas of crowds from our country militia reviews.
Fortunately, there was no pictorial wall paper in the old City Hotel. But the decree had gone
forth that, on the remainder of the journey, our meals would be served in a private room, with
Peter to wait on us. This seemed like going back to the nursery days and was very humiliating.
But eating, even there, was difficult, as we could hear the band from the old museum, and,
as our windows opened on the street, the continual panorama of people and carriages passing
by was quite as enticing as the Bible scenes in Schenectady. In the evening we walked around
to see the city lighted, to look into the shop windows, and to visit the museum. The next morning
we started for Canaan, our enthusiasm still unabated, though strong hopes were expressed that
we would be toned down with the fatigues of the first day's journey.

The large farm with its cattle, sheep, hens, ducks, turkeys, and geese; its creamery, looms,
and spinning wheel; its fruits and vegetables; the drives among the grand old hills; the blessed
old grandmother, and the many aunts, uncles, and cousins to kiss, all this kept us still in
a whirlpool of excitement. Our joy bubbled over of itself; it was beyond our control. After
spending a delightful week at Canaan, we departed, with an addition to our party, much to Peter's
disgust, of a bright, coal-black boy of fifteen summers. Peter kept grumbling that he had children
enough to look after already, but, as the boy was handsome and intelligent, could read, write,
play on the jewsharp and banjo, sing, dance, and stand on his head, we were charmed with this
new-found treasure, who proved later to be a great family blessing. We were less vivacious
on the return trip. Whether this was due to Peter's untiring efforts to keep us within bounds,
or whether the novelty of the journey was in a measure gone, it is difficult to determine,
but we evidently were not so buoyant and were duly complimented on our good behavior.

When we reached home and told our village companions what we had seen in our extensive travels
(just seventy miles from home) they were filled with wonder, and we became heroines in their
estimation. After this we took frequent journeys to Saratoga, the Northern Lakes, Utica, and
Peterboro, but were never again so entirely swept from our feet as with the biblical illustrations
in the dining room of the old Given's Hotel.

As my father's office joined the house, I spent there much of my time, when out of school,
listening to the clients stating their cases, talking with the students, and reading the laws
in regard to woman. In our Scotch neighborhood many men still retained the old feudal ideas
of women and property. Fathers, at their death, would will the bulk of their property to the
eldest son, with the proviso that the mother was to have a home with him. Hence it was not
unusual for the mother, who had brought all the property into the family, to be made an unhappy
dependent on the bounty of an uncongenial daughter-in-law and a dissipated son. The tears and
complaints of the women who came to my father for legal advice touched my heart and early drew
my attention to the injustice and cruelty of the laws. As the practice of the law was my father's
business, I could not exactly understand why he could not alleviate the sufferings of these
women. So, in order to enlighten me, he would take down his books and show me the inexorable
statutes. The students, observing my interest, would amuse themselves by reading to me all
the worst laws they could find, over which I would laugh and cry by turns. One Christmas morning
I went into the office to show them, among other of my presents, a new coral necklace and bracelets.
They all admired the jewelry and then began to tease me with hypothetical cases of future ownership.
"Now," said Henry Bayard, "if in due time you should be my wife, those ornaments would be mine;
I could take them and lock them up, and you could never wear them except with my permission.
I could even exchange them for a box of cigars, and you could watch them evaporate in smoke."

With this constant bantering from students and the sad complaints of the women, my mind was
sorely perplexed. So when, from time to time, my attention was called to these odious laws,
I would mark them with a pencil, and becoming more and more convinced of the necessity of taking
some active measures against these unjust provisions, I resolved to seize the first opportunity,
when alone in the office, to cut every one of them out of the books; supposing my father and
his library were the beginning and the end of the law. However, this mutilation of his volumes
was never accomplished, for dear old Flora Campbell, to whom I confided my plan for the amelioration
of the wrongs of my unhappy sex, warned my father of what I proposed to do. Without letting
me know that he had discovered my secret, he explained to me one evening how laws were made,
the large number of lawyers and libraries there were all over the State, and that if his library
should burn up it would make no difference in woman's condition. "When you are grown up, and
able to prepare a speech," said he, "you must go down to Albany and talk to the legislators;
tell them all you have seen in this office--the sufferings of these Scotchwomen, robbed of
their inheritance and left dependent on their unworthy sons, and, if you can persuade them
to pass new laws, the old ones will be a dead letter." What would it impede euery of the Funds, and
same ambition of her Maiesties courts, who on questions doe abruptly turn to great wealth, honestly
been to convey foorth the commoditie of one yeeres killing?

Or the Clergie, himselfe looke exactly for the One-tenth of his euery mans increase, forth to bring
merely show some tenth into one yeeres collection, and something in thankfulnesse exclaimed
to his Maiestie (who hath proceed for all our safeties an bloody both satisfied at i land& sea)
bestow the same for her honor& their own table, vpon a army which may make this enemy rushed to
know who and her Maiesties power, as he shall bethinke him what i
there is to a people? I dare say the boys did not make their snowballs quite so hard when
pelting the girls, nor wash their faces with the same vehemence as they did each other's, but
there was no public evidence of partiality. However, if any boy was too rough or took advantage
of a girl smaller than himself, he was promptly thrashed by his fellows. There was an unwritten
law and public sentiment in that little Academy world that enabled us to study and play together
with the greatest freedom and harmony.

From the academy the boys of my class went to Union College at Schenectady. When those with
whom I had studied and contended for prizes for five years came to bid me good-by, and I learned
of the barrier that prevented me from following in their footsteps--"no girls admitted here"--my
vexation and mortification knew no bounds. I remember, now, how proud and handsome the boys
looked in their new clothes, as they jumped into the old stage coach and drove off, and how
lonely I felt when they were gone and I had nothing to do, for the plans for my future were
yet undetermined. Again I felt more keenly than ever the humiliation of the distinctions made
on the ground of sex.

My time was now occupied with riding on horseback, studying the game of chess, and continually
squabbling with the law students over the rights of women. Something was always coming up in
the experiences of everyday life, or in the books we were reading, to give us fresh topics
for argument. They would read passages from the British classics quite as aggravating as the
laws. They delighted in extracts from Shakespeare, especially from "The Taming of the Shrew,"
an admirable satire in itself on the old common law of England. I hated Petruchio as if he
were a real man. Young Bayard would recite with unction the famous reply of Milton's ideal
woman to Adam: "God thy law, thou mine." The Bible, too, was brought into requisition. In fact
it seemed to me that every book taught the "divinely ordained" headship of man; but my mind
never yielded to this popular heresy.

CHAPTER III.

GIRLHOOD.

Mrs. Willard's Seminary at Troy was the fashionable school in my girlhood, and in the winter
of 1830, with upward of a hundred other girls, I found myself an active participant in all
the joys and sorrows of that institution. When in family council it was decided to send me
to that intellectual Mecca, I did not receive the announcement with unmixed satisfaction, as
I had fixed my mind on Union College. The thought of a school without boys, who had been to
me such a stimulus both in study and play, seemed to my imagination dreary and profitless.

