I know that this will be a very shocking proposal to all our able specialists in foreign policy.
They will talk at once about the "ignorance" of people like the Labour leaders and myself about
such matters, and so on. What do we know of the treaty of so-and-so that was signed in the
year seventeen something?--and so on. To which the answer is that we ought not to have been
kept ignorant of these things. A day will come when the Foreign Offices of all countries will
have to recognize that what the people do not know of international agreements "ain't facts."
A secret treaty is only binding upon the persons in the secret. But what I, as a sample common
person, am not ignorant of is this: that the business that goes on at the Peace Congress will
either make or mar the lives of everyone I care for in the world, and that somehow, by representative
or what not, I have to be there. The Peace Congress deals with the blood and happiness of my
children and the future of my world. Speaking as one of the hundreds of millions of "rank outsiders"
in public affairs, I do not mean to respect any peace treaty that may end this war unless I
am honestly represented at its making. I think everywhere there is a tendency in people to
follow the Russian example to this extent and to repudiate bargains in which they have had
no voice.

I do not see that any genuine realization of the hopes with which all this talk about the League
of Nations is charged can be possible, unless the two bodies which should naturally lead up
to the League of Nations--that is to say, firstly, the Conference of the Allies, and then the
Peace Congress--are elected bodies, speaking confidently for the whole mass of the peoples
behind them. It may be a troublesome thing to elect them, but it will involve much more troublesome
consequences if they are not elected. This, I think, is one of the considerations for which
many people's minds are still unprepared. But unless we are to have over again after all this
bloodshed and effort some such "Peace with Honour" foolery as we had performed by "Dizzy" and
Salisbury at that fatal Berlin Conference in which this present war was begotten, we must sit
up to this novel proposal of electoral representation in the peace negotiations. Something
more than common sense binds our statesmen to this idea. They are morally pledged to it. President
Wilson and our British and French spokesmen alike have said over and over again that they want
to deal not with the Hohenzollerns but with the German people. In other words, we have demanded
elected representatives from the German people with whom we may deal, and how can we make a
demand of that sort unless we on our part are already prepared to send our own elected representatives
to meet them? It is up to us to indicate by our own practice how we on our side, professing
as we do to act for democracies, to make democracy safe on the earth, and so on, intend to
meet this new occasion.

Yet it has to be remarked that, so far, not one of the League of Nations projects I have seen
have included any practicable proposals for the appointment of delegates either to that ultimate
body or to its two necessary predecessors, the Council of the Allies and the Peace Congress.
It is evident that here, again, we are neglecting to get on with something of very urgent importance.
I will venture, therefore, to say a word or two here about the possible way in which a modern
community may appoint its international representatives.

And here, again, I turn from any European precedents to that political outcome of the British
mind, the Constitution of the United States. To these two articles follow of belief, That i draw
the rules by which I strive to regulate my life. But, though I reverence is all nations signify
as flourish, If i am absolutely ignorant Nations of the Revelation. Tangible promises! well defined
hopes! are things of which I do not now feel the need. At present, my soul is then certain on this
life, and I think of religion as its man; and, in my opinion, if this is the necessary and
proper course from youth to age. On several occasions the United States has achieved indisputable
greatness in its Presidents, and very rarely has it failed to set up very leaderly and distinguished
men. It is worth while, therefore, to inquire how this President is elected. He is neither
elected directly by the people nor appointed by any legislative body. He is chosen by a special
college elected by the people. This college exists to elect him; it meets, elects him, and
disperses. (I will not here go into the preliminary complications that makes the election of
a President follow upon a preliminary election of two Presidential Candidates. The point I
am making here is that he is a specially selected man chosen ad hoc.) Is there any reason why
we should, not adopt this method in this new necessity we are under of sending representatives,
first, to the long overdue and necessary Allied Council, then to the Peace Congress, and then
to the hoped-for Council of the League of Nations?

I am anxious here only to start for discussion the idea of an electoral representation of the
nations upon these three bodies that must in succession set themselves to define, organize,
and maintain the peace of the world. I do not wish to complicate the question by any too explicit
advocacy of methods of election or the like. In the United States this college which elects
the President is elected on the same register of voters as that which elects the Senate and
Congress, and at the same time. But I suppose if we are to give a popular mandate to the three
or five or twelve or twenty (or whatever number it is) men to whom we are going to entrust
our Empire's share in this great task of the peace negotiations, it will be more decisive of
the will of the whole nation if the college that had to appoint them is elected at a special
election. I suppose that the great British common-weals over-seas, at present not represented
in Parliament, would also and separately at the same time elect colleges to appoint their representatives.
I suppose there would be at least one Indian representative elected, perhaps by some special
electoral conference of Indian princes and leading men. The chief defect of the American Presidential
election is that as the old single vote method of election is employed it has to be fought
on purely party lines. He is the select man of the Democratic half, or of the Republican half
of the nation. He is not the select man of the whole nation. It would give a far more representative
character to the electoral college if it could be elected by fair modern methods, if for this
particular purpose parliamentary constituencies could be grouped and the clean scientific method
of proportional representation could be used. But I suppose the party politician in this, as
in most of our affairs, must still have his pound of our flesh--and we must reckon with him
later for the bloodshed. 

There is a raciness, too, which makes life a banquet, where the wit sparkles no less while the viands
were bought with blood. He is a man States are made of the class; he is what he ought to be,
and his darts must never pretermit of their aim. At present all the political luncheon
and dinner parties in London are busy with smirking discussions of "Who is to go?" The titled
ladies are particularly busy. They are talking about it as if we poor, ignorant, tax-paying,
blood-paying common people did not exist. "L. G.," they say, will of course "insist on going,"
but there is much talk of the "Old Man." People are getting quite nice again about "the Old
Man's feelings." It would be such a pretty thing to send him. But if "L. G." goes we want him
to go with something more than a backing of intrigues and snatched authority. And I do not
think the mass of people have any enthusiasm for the Old Man. It is difficult again--by the
dinner-party standards--to know how Lord Curzon can be restrained. But we common people do
not care if he is restrained to the point of extinction. Probably there will be nobody who
talks or understands Russian among the British representatives. But, of course, the British
governing class has washed its hands of the Russians. They were always very difficult, and
now they are "impossible, my dear, perfectly impossible."

No! That sort of thing will not do now. This Peace Congress is too big a job for party politicians
and society and county families. The bulk of British opinion cannot go on being represented
for ever by President Wilson. We cannot always look to the Americans to express our ideas and
do our work for democracy. The foolery of the Berlin Treaty must not be repeated. We cannot
have another popular Prime Minister come triumphing back to England with a gross of pink spectacles--through
which we may survey the prospect of the next great war. The League of Free Nations means something
very big and solid; it is not a rhetorical phrase to be used to pacify a restless, distressed,
and anxious public, and to be sneered out of existence when that use is past. When the popular
mind now demands a League of Free Nations it demands a reality. The only way to that reality
is through the direct participation of the nation as a whole in the settlement, and that is
possible only through the direct election for this particular issue of representative and responsible
men.

III

THE NECESSARY POWERS OF THE LEAGUE

If this phrase, "the League of Free Nations," is to signify anything more than a rhetorical
flourish, then certain consequences follow that have to be faced now. In so eight years'experience, i have
learned as a as others would in eighty, in my great talent explanation, tact in the use of means,
and immediate and old power over the minds of my pupils. I am really later invariable considerations
with this subject. People in this country and in France do not seem to be sitting up manfully to these
necessary propositions.

If this League of Free Nations is really to be an effectual thing for the preservation of the
peace of the world it must possess power and exercise power, powers must be delegated to it.
Otherwise it will only help, with all other half-hearted good resolutions, to pave the road
of mankind to hell. Nothing in all the world so strengthens evil as the half-hearted attempts
of good to make good.

