The Secretary of the Interior has suggested in his report various amendments of the laws relating
to pensions and bounty lands for the purpose of more effectually guarding against abuses and
frauds on the Government, to all of which I invite your particular attention. The large accessions
to our Indian population consequent upon the acquisition of New Mexico and California and the
extension of our settlements into Utah and Oregon have given increased interest and importance
to our relations with the aboriginal race. No material change has taken place within the last
year in the condition and prospects of the Indian tribes who reside in the Northwestern Territory
and west of the Mississippi River. We are at peace with all of them, and it will be a source
of pleasure to you to learn that they are gradually advancing in civilization and the pursuits
of social life.

Along the Mexican frontier and in California and Oregon there have been occasional manifestations
of unfriendly feeling and some depredations committed. I am satisfied, however, that they resulted
more from the destitute and starving condition of the Indians than from any settled hostility
toward the whites. As the settlements of our citizens progress toward them, the game, upon
which they mainly rely for subsistence, is driven off or destroyed, and the only alternative
left to them is starvation or plunder. It becomes us to consider, in view of this condition
of things, whether justice and humanity, as well as an enlightened economy, do not require
that instead of seeking to punish them for offenses which are the result of our own policy
toward them we should not provide for their immediate wants and encourage them to engage in
agriculture and to rely on their labor instead of the chase for the means of support.

Various important treaties have been negotiated with different tribes during the year, by which
their title to large and valuable tracts of country has been extinguished, all of which will
at the proper time be submitted to the Senate for ratification.

The joint commission under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo has been actively engaged in running
and marking the boundary line between the United States and Mexico. It was stated in the last
annual report of the Secretary of the Interior that the initial point on the Pacific and the
point of junction of the Gila with the Colorado River had been determined and the intervening
line, about 150 miles in length, run and marked by temporary monuments. Since that time a monument
of marble has been erected at the initial point, and permanent landmarks of iron have been
placed at suitable distances along the line.

The initial point on the Rio Grande has also been fixed by the commissioners, at latitude 32
degrees 22', and at the date of the last communication the survey of the line had been made
thence westward about 150 miles to the neighborhood of the copper mines. The commission on
our part was at first organized on a scale which experience proved to be unwieldy and attended
with unnecessary expense. Orders have therefore been issued for the reduction of the number
of persons employed within the smallest limits consistent with the safety of those engaged
in the service and the prompt and efficient execution of their important duties.

Returns have been received from all the officers engaged in taking the census in the States
and Territories except California. The superintendent employed to make the enumeration in that
State has not yet made his full report, from causes, as he alleges, beyond his control. This
failure is much to be regretted, as it has prevented the Secretary of the Interior from making
the decennial apportionment of Representatives among the States, as required by the act approved
May 23, 1850. It is hoped, however, that the returns will soon be received, and no time will
then be lost in making the necessary apportionment and in transmitting the certificates required
by law.

The Superintendent of the Seventh Census is diligently employed, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior, in classifying and arranging in tabular form all the statistical
information derived from the returns of the marshals, and it is believed that when the work
shall be completed it will exhibit a more perfect view of the population, wealth, occupations,
and social condition of a great country than has ever been presented to the world. The value
of such a work as the basis of enlightened legislation can hardly be overestimated, and I earnestly
hope that Congress will lose no time in making the appropriations necessary to complete the
classifications and to publish the results in a style worthy of the subject and of our national
character.

The want of a uniform fee bill, prescribing the compensation to be allowed district attorneys,
clerks, marshals, and commissioners in civil and criminal cases, is the cause of much vexation,
injustice, and complaint. I would recommend a thorough revision of the laws on the whole subject
and the adoption of a tariff of fees which, as far as practicable, should be uniform, and prescribe
a specific compensation for every service which the officer may be required to perform. This
subject will be fully presented in the report of the Secretary of the Interior. In my last
annual message I gave briefly my reasons for believing that you possessed the constitutional
power to improve the harbors of our Great Lakes and seacoast and the navigation of our principal
rivers, and recommended that appropriations should be made for completing such works as had
already been commenced and for commencing such others as might seem to the wisdom of Congress
to be of public and general importance. Without repeating the reasons then urged, I deem it
my duty again to call your attention to this important subject. The works on many of the harbors
were left in an unfinished state, and consequently exposed to the action of the elements, which
is fast destroying them. Great numbers of lives and vast amounts of property are annually lost
for want of safe and convenient harbors on the Lakes. None but those who have been exposed
to that dangerous navigation can fully appreciate the importance of this subject. The whole
Northwest appeals to you for relief, and I trust their appeal will receive due consideration
at your hands.

The same is in a measure true in regard to some of the harbors and inlets on the seacoast.

The unobstructed navigation of our large rivers is of equal importance. Our settlements are
now extending to the sources of the great rivers which empty into and form a part of the Mississippi,
and the value of the public lands in those regions would be greatly enhanced by freeing the
navigation of those waters from obstructions. In view, therefore, of this great interest, I
deem it my duty again to urge upon Congress to make such appropriations for these improvements
as they may deem necessary.

The surveys of the Delta of the Mississippi, with a view to the prevention of the overflows
that have proved so disastrous to that region of country, have been nearly completed, and the
reports thereof are now in course of preparation and will shortly be laid before you.

