About the same time, the furthermost Spain besought the Senate by their ambassadors, "that
after the example of Asia, they might erect a temple to Tiberius and his mother." Upon this
occasion, the Emperor, always resolute in contemning honours, and now judging it proper to
confute those, who exposed him to the popular censure, of having deviated into ambition; spoke
in this manner: "I know, Conscript Fathers, that it is generally blamed, and ascribed to a
defect of firmness in me, that when the cities of Asia petitioned for this very thing, I withstood
them not. I shall therefore now unfold at once the motives of my silence then, and the rules
which for the future I am determined to observe. Since the deified Augustus bad not opposed
the founding at Pergamus a temple to himself and the city of Rome; I, with whom all his actions
and sayings have the force of laws, followed an example already approved; and followed it the
more cheerfully, because to the worship bestowed upon me, that of the Senate was annexed. But
as the indulging of this, in one instance, will find pardon; so a general latitude of being
adored through every province, under the sacred representations of the Deities, would denote
a vain spirit; a heart swelled with ambition. The glory too of Augustus will vanish, if by
the promiscuous courtship of flattery it comes to be vulgarly prostituted.

"For myself, Conscript Fathers, I am a mortal man; I am confined to the functions of human
nature; and if I well supply the principal place amongst you, it suffices me. This I acknowledge
to you; and this acknowledgment, I would have posterity to remember. They will do abundant
right to my memory, if they believe me to have been worthy of my ancestors; watchful of the
Roman state; unmoved in perils, and in maintaining the public interest, fearless of private
enmities. These are the temples which in your breasts I would raise; these the fairest portraitures,
and such as will endure. As to temples and statues of stone, if the idol adored in them comes
to be hated by posterity, they are despised as his sepulchres. Hence it is I here invoke the
Gods, that to the end of my life they would grant me a spirit undisturbed, and discerning in
duties human and divine: and hence too I here implore our citizens and allies, that whenever
my dissolution comes, they would with approbation and benevolent testimonies of remembrance,
celebrate my actions and retain the odour of my name." And thenceforward he persevered in slighting
upon all occasions, and even in private conversation, this divine worship of himself. A conduct
which was by some ascribed to modesty; by many to a conscious diffidence; by others to degeneracy
of spirit. "Since the most sublime amongst men naturally covet the most exalted honours: thus
Hercules and Bacchus amongst the Greeks, and with us Romulus, were added to the society of
the Gods: Augustus too had chosen the nobler part, and hoped for deification: all the other
gratifications of Princes were instantly procured: one only was to be pursued insatiably; the
praise and perpetuity of their name. For by contemning fame, the virtues that procure it, are
contemned."

Now Sejanus, intoxicated with excess of fortune, and moreover stimulated by the importunity
of Livia, who, with the restless passion of a woman, craved the promised marriage, composed
a memorial to the Emperor. For, it was then the custom to apply to him in writing, though he
were present. This of Sejanus was thus conceived: "That such had been towards him the benevolence
of Augustus; such and so numerous, since, the instances of affection from Tiberius, that he
was thence accustomed, without applying to the Gods, to carry his hopes and prayers directly
to the Emperors: yet of them he had never sought a blaze of honours: watching and toils like
those of common soldiers, for the safeguard of the Prince, had been his choice and ambition.
However what was most glorious for him he had attained; to be thought worthy of alliance with
the Emperor: hence the source of his present hopes: and, since he had heard that Augustus,
in the disposal of his daughter, had not been without thoughts even of some of the Roman knights;
he begged that if a husband were sought for Livia, Tiberius would remember his friend; one
whose ambition aimed no higher than the pure and disinterested glory of the affinity: for that
he would never abandon the burden of his present trust; but hold it sufficient to be, by that
means, enabled to support his house against the injurious wrath of Agrippina; and in this he
only consulted the security of his children. For himself; his own life would be abundantly
long, whenever finally spent in the ministry of such a Prince."

For a present answer, Tiberius praised the loyalty of Sejanus; recapitulated cursorily the
instances of his own favours towards him, and required time, as it were for a thorough deliberation.
At last he made this reply: "That all other men were, in their pursuits, guided by the notions
of convenience: far different was the lot and situation of Princes, who were in their action
to consider chiefly the applause and good liking of the public: he therefore did not delude
Sejanus with an obvious and plausible answer; that Livia could herself determine whether, after
Drusus, she ought again to marry, or still persist his widow, and that she had a mother and
grandmother, nearer relations and more interested to advise. He would deal more candidly with
him: and first as to the enmity of Agrippina; it would flame out with fresh fury, if by the
marriage of Livia, the family of the Caesars were rent as it were into two contending parties:
that even as things stood, the emulation of these ladies broke into frequent sallies, and,
by their animosities, his grandsons were instigated different ways. What would be the consequence,
if, by such a marriage, the strife were inflamed? For you are deceived, Sejanus, if you think
to continue then in the same rank as now; or that Livia, she who was first the wife of the
young Caius Caesar, and afterwards the wife of Drusus, will be of a temper to grow old with
a husband no higher than a Roman knight: nay, allowing that I suffered you afterwards to remain
what you are; do you believe that they who saw her father, they who saw her brother, and the
ancestors of our house, covered with the supreme dignities, will ever suffer it? You in truth
propose, yourself, to stand still in the same station: but the great magistrates and grandees
of the state, those very magistrates and grandees who, in spite of yourself, break in upon
you, and in all affairs court you as their oracle, make no secret of maintaining that you have
long since exceeded the bounds of the Equestrian Order, and far outgone in power all the confidants
of my father; and from their hatred to you, they also censure me. But still, Augustus deliberated
about giving his daughter to a Roman knight. Where is the wonder, if perplexed with a crowd
of distracting cares, and apprised to what an unbounded height above others he raised whomsoever
he dignified with such a match, he talked of Proculeius, and some like him; remarkable for
the retiredness of their life, and nowise engaged in the affairs of state? But if we are influenced
by the hesitation of Augustus, how much more powerful is the decision; since he bestowed his
daughter on Agrippa, and then on me? These are considerations which in friendship I have not
withheld: however, neither your own inclinations, nor those of Livia, shall be ever thwarted
by me. The secret and constant purposes of my own heart towards you, and with what further
ties of affinity, I am contriving to bind you still faster to me; I at present forbear to recount.
Thus much only I will declare, that there is nothing so high but those abilities, and your
singular zeal and fidelity towards me, may justly claim: as when opportunity presents, either
in Senate, or in a popular assembly, I shall not fail to testify."

In answer to this, Sejanus no longer soliciting the marriage, but filled with higher apprehensions,
besought him "to resist the dark suggestions of suspicion; to despise the pratings of the vulgar,
nor to admit the hostile breath of envy." And as he was puzzled about the crowds which incessantly
haunted his house; lest by keeping them off he might impair his power; or by encouraging them,
furnish a handle for criminal imputations; he came to this result, that he would urge the Emperor
out of Rome, to spend his life remote from thence in delightful retirements. From this counsel
he foresaw many advantages: upon himself would depend all access to the Emperor; all letters
and expresses would, as the soldiers were the carriers, be in great measure under his direction;
in a little time, the Prince, now in declining age, and then softened by recess, would more
easily transfer upon him the whole charge of the Empire: he should be removed from the multitude
of such as to make their court, attended him at Rome; and thence one source of envy would be
stopped. So that by discharging the empty phantoms of power, he should augment the essentials.
He therefore began by little and little to rail at the hurry of business at Rome, the throng
of people, the flock of suitors: he applauded "retirement and quiet; where, while they were
separate from irksome fatigues, nor exposed to the discontents and resentments of particulars,
all affairs of moment were best despatched."

Next were heard ambassadors from the Lacedaemonians and Messenians, about the right that each
people claimed to the Temple of Diana Limenetis; which the Lacedaemonians asserted to be theirs,
"founded in their territory, and dedicated by their ancestors," and offered as proofs the ancient
authority of their annals, and the hymns of the old poets. "It had been in truth taken from
them by the superior force of Philip of Macedon, when at war with him; but restored afterwards
by the judicial decision of Julius Caesar and Marc Anthony." The Messenians, on the contrary,
pleaded, "the ancient partition of Peloponnesus amongst the descendants of Hercules; whence
the territory where the temple stood, had fallen to their king; and the monuments of that allotment
still remained, engraven in stone and old tables of brass; but, if the testimony of histories
and poets were appealed to; they themselves had the most and the fullest. Nor had Philip, in
his decision, acted by power, but from equity: the same afterwards was the adjudgment of King
Antigonus; the same that of the Roman commander Mummius. Thus too the Milesians had awarded,
they who were by both sides chosen arbitrators: and thus lastly it had been determined by Atidius
Geminus, Praetor of Achaia." The Messenians therefore gained the suit. The citizens also of
Segestum applied on behalf of "the Temple of Venus on Mount Eryx; which fallen through age,
they desired might be restored." They represented the story of its origin and antiquity; a
well-pleasing flattery to Tiberius; who frankly took upon himself the charge, as kinsman to
the Goddess. Then was discussed the petition from the citizens of Marseilles; and what they
claimed, according to the precedent of Publius Rutilius, was approved: for Rutilius, though
by a law expelled from Rome, had been by those of Smyrna adopted a citizen: and as Volcatius
Moschus, another exile, had found at Marseilles the same privilege and reception, he had to
their Republic, as to his country, left his estate.

During the same Consuls, a bloody assassination was perpetrated in the nethermost Spain, by
a boor in the territory of Termes. By him, Lucius Piso, Governor of the Province, as he travelled
careless and unattended, relying on the established peace, was surprised, and despatched at
one deadly blow. The assassin however escaped to a forest, by the fleetness of his horse; and
there dismissed him: from thence travelling over rocks and pathless places, he baffled his
pursuers: but their ignorance of his person was soon removed; for his horse being taken and
shown through the neighbouring villages, it was thence learned who was the owner; so that he
too was found; but when put to the rack to declare his accomplices, he proclaimed with a mighty
and assured voice, in the language of his country, "that in vain they questioned him; his associates
might stand safely by and witness his constancy: and that no force of torture could be so exquisite
as from him to extort a discovery." Next day as he was dragged back to the rack, he burst with
a vehement effort from his guard, and dashed his head so desperately against a stone, that
he instantly expired. Piso is believed to have been assassinated by a plot of the Termestinians;
as in exacting the repayment of some money, seized from the public, he acted with more asperity,
than a rough people could bear.

In the Consulship of Lentulus Getulicus and Caius Calvisius, the triumphal ensigns were decreed
to Poppeus Sabinus for having routed some clans of Thracians, who living wildly on the high
mountains, acted thence with the more outrage and contumacy. The ground of their late commotion,
not to mention the savage genius of the people, was their scorn and impatience, to have recruits
raised amongst them, and all their stoutest men enlisted in our armies; accustomed as they
were not even to obey their native kings further than their own humour, nor to aid them with
forces but under captains of their own choosing, nor to fight against any enemy but their own
borderers. Their discontents too were inflamed by a rumour which then ran current amongst them;
that they were to be dispersed into different regions; and exterminated from their own, to
be mixed with other nations. But before they took arms and began hostilities, they sent ambassadors
to Sabinus, to represent "their past friendship and submission, and that the same should continue,
if they were provoked by no fresh impositions: but, if like a people subdued by war, they were
doomed to bondage; they had able men and steel, and souls determined upon liberty or death."
The ambassadors at the same time pointed to their strongholds founded upon precipices; and
boasted that they had thither conveyed their wives and parents; and threatened a war intricate,
hazardous and bloody.

Sabinus amused them with gentle answers till he could draw together his army; while Pomponius
Labeo was advancing with a legion from Moesia, and King Rhoemetalces with a body of Thracians
who had not renounced their allegiance. With these, and what forces he had of his own, he marched
towards the foe, now settled in the passes of the forest: some more bold presented themselves
upon the hills: against the last, the Roman general first bent his forces in battle, and without
difficulty drove them thence, but with small slaughter of the Barbarians, because of their
immediate refuge. Here he straight raised an encampment, and with a stout band took possession
of a hill, which extended with an even narrow ridge to the next fortress, which was garrisoned
by a great host of armed men and rabble: and as the most resolute were, in the way of the nation,
rioting without the fortification in dances and songs, he forthwith despatched against them
his select archers. These, while they only poured in volleys of arrows at a distance did thick
and extensive execution; but, approaching too near, were by a sudden sally put in disorder.
They were however supported by a cohort of the Sigambrians, purposely posted by Sabinus in
readiness against an exigency; a people these, equally terrible in the boisterous and mixed
uproar of their voices and arms.

He afterwards pitched his camp nearer to the enemy; having in his former entrenchments left
the Thracians, whom I have mentioned to have joined us. To them too was permitted "to lay waste,
burn, and plunder; on condition that their ravages were confined to the day; and that, at nights,
they kept within the camp, secure under guard." This restriction was at first observed; but,
anon lapsing into luxury, and grown opulent in plunder, they neglected their guards, and resigned
themselves to gaiety and banquetting, to the intoxication and sloth of wine and sleep. The
enemy therefore apprised of their negligence, formed themselves into two bands; one to set
upon the plunderers; the other to assault the Roman camp, with no hopes of taking it; but only
that the soldiers alarmed with shouts and darts, and all intent upon their own defence, might
not hear the din of the other battle: moreover to heighten the terror, it was to be done by
night. Those who assailed the lines of the legions were easily repulsed: but, the auxiliary
Thracians were terrified with the sudden encounter, as they were utterly unprepared. Part of
them lay along the entrenchments; many were roaming abroad; and both were slain with the keener
vengeance, as they were upbraided "for fugitives and traitors, who bore arms to establish servitude
over their country and themselves."

Next day Sabinus drew up his army in view of the enemy, on ground equal to both; to try, if
elated with their success by night, they would venture a battle: and, when they still kept
within the fortress, or on the cluster of hills, he began to begird them with a siege; and
strengthening his old lines and adding new, enclosed a circuit of four miles. Then to deprive
them of water and forage, he straitened his entrenchment by degrees, and hemmed them in still
closer. A bulwark was also raised, whence the enemy now within throw, were annoyed with discharges
of stones, darts, and fire. But nothing aggrieved them so vehemently as thirst, whilst only
a single fountain remained amongst a huge multitude of armed men and families: their horses
too and cattle, penned up with the people, after the barbarous manner of the country, perished
for want of provender: amongst the carcasses of beasts lay those of men; some dead of thirst,
some of their wounds; a noisome mixture of misery and death; all was foul and tainted with
putrefaction, stench, and filthy contamination. To these distresses also accrued another, and
of all calamities the most consummate, the calamity of discord: some were disposed to surrender;
others proposed present death, and to fall upon one another. There were some too who advised
a sally, and to die avenging their deaths. Nor were these last mean men, though dissenting
from the rest.

But there was one of their leaders, his name Dinis, a man stricken in years, who, by long experience,
acquainted with the power and clemency of the Romans, argued, "that they must lay down their
arms, the same being the sole cure for their pressing calamities;" and was the first who submitted,
with his wife and children to the conqueror. There followed him all that were weak through
sex or age, and such as had a greater passion for life than glory. The young men were parted
between Tarsa and Turesis; both determined to fall with liberty: but Tarsa declared earnestly
"for instant death; and that by it all hopes and fears were at once to be extinguished;" and
setting an example, buried his sword in his breast. Nor were there wanting some who despatched
themselves the same way. Turesis and his band stayed for night: of which our General was aware.
The guards were therefore strengthened with extraordinary reinforcements: and now with the
night, darkness prevailed, its horror heightened by outrageous rain; and the enemy with tumultuous
shouts, and by turns with vast silence, alarmed and puzzled the besiegers. Sabinus therefore
going round the camp, warned the soldiers, "that they should not be misguided by the deceitful
voice of uproar, nor trust to a feigned calm, and thence open an advantage to the enemy, who
by these wiles sought it; but keep immovably to their several posts; nor throw their darts
at random."

Just then came the Barbarians, pouring in distinct droves: here, with stones, with wooden javelins
hardened in the fire, and with the broken limbs of trees, they battered the palisade: there
with hurdles, faggots and dead bodies, they filled the trench: by others, bridges and ladders,
both before framed, were planted against the battlements; these they violently grappled and
tore, and struggled hand to hand with those who opposed them. The Romans, on the other side,
beat them back with their bucklers, drove them down with darts, and hurled upon them great
mural stakes and heaps of stones. On both sides were powerful stimulations: on ours the hopes
of victory almost gained, if we persisted; and thence the more glaring infamy, if we recoiled:
on theirs, the last struggle for their life; most of them, too, inspired with the affecting
presence of their mothers and wives, and made desperate by their dolorous wailings. The night
was an advantage to the cowardly and the brave; by it, the former became more resolute; by
it, the latter hid their fear: blows were dealt, the striker knew not upon whom; and wounds
received, the wounded knew not whence: such was the utter indistinction of friend and foe.
To heighten the general jumble and blind confusion, the echo from the cavities of the mountain
represented to the Romans the shouts of the enemy as behind them: hence in some places they
deserted their lines, as believing them already broken and entered: and yet such of the enemy,
as broke through, were very few. All the rest, their most resolute champions being wounded
or slain, were at the returning light driven back to their fort; where they were at length
forced to surrender; as did the places circumjacent of their own accord. The remainder could
then be neither forced nor famished; as they were protected by a furious winter, always sudden
about Mount Haemus.

At Rome, discord shook the Prince's family: and, to begin the series of destruction, which
was to end in Agrippina, Claudia Pulchra her cousin was accused; Domitius Afer the accuser.
This man, just out of the Praetorship, in estimation small, but hasty to signalise himself
by some notable exploit however heinous, alleged against her the "crimes of prostitution, of
adultery with Furnius, of magical execrations and poison prepared against the life of the Emperor."
Agrippina ever vehement, and then in a flame for the peril of her kinswoman, flew to Tiberius,
and by chance found him sacrificing to the Emperor his father. Having got this handle for upbraiding
him, she told him "that it ill became the same man to slay victims to the deified Augustus
and to persecute his children: his divine spirit was not transfused into dumb statues: the
genuine images of Augustus were the living descendants from his celestial blood: she herself
was one; one sensible of impending danger, and now in the mournful state of a supplicant. In
vain were foreign crimes pretended against Pulchra; when the only cause of her concerted overthrow
was her affection for Agrippina, foolishly carried even to adoration; forgetful as she was
of the fate of Sosia, a condemned sufferer for the same fault." All these bitter words drew
small answer from the dark breast of Tiberius: he rebuked her by quoting a Greek verse; "That
she was therefore aggrieved, because she did not reign:" Pulchra and Furnius were condemned.
Afer, having thus displayed his genius, and gained a declaration from Tiberius, pronouncing
him eloquent in his own independent right, was ranked with the most celebrated orators: afterwards
in prosecuting accusations, or in protecting the accused, he flourished more in the fame of
eloquence than in that of uprightness: however, old age eminently sunk the credit and vigour
of his eloquence; while, with parts decayed, he still retained a passion for haranguing. [Footnote:
Dum fessa mente, retinet silentii inpatientiam.]

Agrippina still fostering her wrath, and seized too with a bodily disorder, received the Emperor,
come purposely to see her, with many tears and long silence. At last she accosted him with
invidious expostulations and prayers; "that he would relieve her solitude, and give her a husband.
She was still endowed with proper youth; to virtuous women there was no consolation but that
of marriage; and Rome afforded illustrious men who would readily assent to entertain the wife
of Germanicus, and his children." Tiberius was not ignorant to what mighty power in the state,
that demand tended; but, that he might betray no tokens of resentment or fear, he left her,
though instant with him, without an answer. This passage, not related by the authors of our
annals, I found in the commentaries of her daughter Agrippina; her, who was the mother of the
Emperor Nero, and has published her own life with the fortunes of her family.

As to Agrippina; still grieving and void of foresight, she was yet more sensibly dismayed by
an artifice of Sejanus, who employed such, as under colour of friendship warned her, "that
poison was prepared for her, and that she must shun eating at her father-in-law's table." She
was a stranger to all dissimulation: so that as she sat near him at table, she continued stately
and unmoved; not a word, not a look escaped her, and she touched no part of the meat. Tiberius
observed her, whether accidentally, or that he was before apprised; and, to be convinced by
a more powerful experiment, praising the apples that stood before him, presented some with
his own hand to his daughter-in-law. This only increased the suspicion of Agrippina; and, without
ever putting them to her mouth, she delivered them to the servants. For all this, the reserved
Tiberius let not a word drop from him openly; but, turning to his mother; "There was no wonder,"
he said, "if he had really taken harsh measures with her, who thus charged him as a poisoner."
Hence a rumour spread, "that her doom was contrived; and that the Emperor not daring to pursue
it publicly, chose to have her despatched in secret."

Tiberius, as a means to divert upon other matters the popular talk, attended assiduously the
deliberations of the Senate; and there heard for many days the several Ambassadors from Asia,
mutually contending, "in what city should be built the temple lately decreed." For this honour
eleven cities strove, with equal ambition, though different in power: nor did the pleas urged
by all, greatly vary; namely, "the antiquity of their original, and their distinguished zeal
for the Roman People, during their several wars with Perseus, Aristonicus, and other kings."
But the Trallians, the Laodiceans, the Magnesians and those of the Hypaepis, were at once dismissed,
as insufficient for the charge. Nor, in truth, had they of Ilium, who represented, "that Troy
was the mother of Rome," any superior advantage, besides the glory of antiquity. The plea of
the Halicarnassians took some short consideration: they asserted, "that for twelve hundred
years, no earthquake had shaken their town; and that they would fix in a solid rock the foundations
of the temple." The same considerations were urged by the inhabitants of Pergamus; where already
was erected a temple to Augustus; a distinction which was judged sufficient for them. The cities
too of Ephesus and Miletus seemed fully employed in the ceremonies of their own distinct deities;
the former in those of Diana; the other, in those of Apollo. Thus the dispute was confined
to Sardis and Smyrna. The first recited a decree of the Etrurians, which owned them for kinsmen:
"for that Tyrrhenus and Lydus, sons of King Atys, having between them divided their people,
because of their multitude, Lydus re-settled in his native country; and it became the lot of
Tyrrhenus to find out a fresh residence; and by the names of these chiefs the parted people
came afterwards to be called, Lydians in Asia, Tyrrhenians in Italy. That the opulence of the
Lydians spread yet farther, by their colonies sent under Pelops into Greece, which from him
afterwards took its name." They likewise urged "the letters of our Generals; their mutual leagues
with us during the war of Macedon; their plenty of rivers, temperate climate, and the fertility
of the circumjacent country."

The Smyrnaeans having likewise recounted their ancient establishment, "whether Tantalus, the
son of Jupiter; or Theseus, the son also of a God; or one of the old Amazons, were their founder;"
proceeded to considerations in which they chiefly trusted; their friendly offices to the Roman
People, having aided them with a naval force, not in their foreign wars only, but in those
which infested Italy. "It was they who first reared a temple to the City of Rome, in the Consulship
of Marcus Porcius; then, in truth, when the power of the Roman People was already mighty, but
however not yet raised to its highest glory; for the city of Carthage still stood, and potent
kings governed Asia. Witness too their generosity to Sylla, when the condition of his army
ready to famish in a cruel winter and a scarcity of clothes, being related to the citizens
of Smyrna then assembled; all that were present divested themselves of their raiments, and
sent them to our legions." Thus when the votes of the Senators were gathered, the pretensions
of Smyrna were preferred. It was also moved by Vibius Marsus, that Lentulus, to whom had fallen
the province of Asia, should be attended by a Legate extraordinary, to supervise the building
of the temple; and as Lentulus himself through modesty declined to choose one, several who
had been Praetors were drawn by lot, and the lot fell upon Valerius Naso.

In the meantime, according to a purpose long meditated, and from time to time deferred, Tiberius
at last retired to Campania; in profession, to dedicate a temple to Jupiter at Capua, and one
at Nola to Augustus; but in truth determined to remove, for ever, from Rome. The cause of his
departure, I have before referred to the stratagems of Sejanus; but though in it I have followed
most of our authors; yet, since after the execution of Sejanus, he persisted for six years
in the like dark recess; I am rather influenced by a stronger probability, that the ground
of his absence is more justly to be ascribed to his own spirit, while he strove to hide in
the shades of solitude, what in deeds he proclaimed, the rage of his cruelty and lust. There
were those who believed that, in his old age, he was ashamed of the figure of his person; for
he was very lean, long and stooping, his head bald, his face ulcerous, and for the most besmeared
with salves: he was moreover wont, during his recess at Rhodes, to avoid the public, and cover
his debauches in secrecy. It is also related that he was driven from Rome by the restless aspiring
of his mother, whom he scorned to admit a partner in the sovereignty; nor yet could entirely
seclude, since as her gift he had received the sovereignty itself. For, Augustus had deliberated
about setting Germanicus at the head of the Roman state; his sister's grandson, and one adored
by all men: but subdued by the solicitations of his wife, he adopted Tiberius; and caused Tiberius
to adopt Germanicus. With this grandeur of her own procuring, Livia upbraided her son; and
even reclaimed it.

His going was narrowly accompanied; by one Senator, Cocceius Nerva, formerly Consul, and accomplished
in the knowledge of the laws; and, besides Sejanus, by one dignified Roman knight, Curtius
Atticus. The rest were men of letters, chiefly Greeks; whose conversation pleased and amused
him. The skilled in astrology declared, "that he had left Rome in such a conjunction of the
planets, as for ever to exclude his return." Hence a source of destruction to many, who conjectured
his end to be at hand, and published their conjectures: for, it was an event too incredible
to be foreseen, that for eleven years he should of choice be withdrawn from his country. The
sequel discovered the short bounds between the art and the falsehood of the art, and what obscurities
perplex even the facts it happens to foretell. That he should never return to Rome, proved
not to be falsely said: as to everything else about him they were perfectly in the dark; since
he still lived, never far distant, sometimes in the adjacent champain, sometimes on the neighbouring
shore, often under the very walls of the city; and died at last in the fulness and extremity
of age.

There happened to Tiberius, about that time, an accident, which, as it threatened his life,
fired the empty prognostics at Rome; but to himself proved matter of more confidence in the
friendship and faith of Sejanus. They were eating in a cave at a villa, thence called Spelunca,
between the Amyclean Sea and the mountains of Fondi: it was a native cave, and its mouth fell
suddenly in, and buried under it some of the attendants: hence dread seized all, and they who
were celebrating the entertainment fled: as to Sejanus; he covered the Emperor's body with
his own, and stooping upon his knees and hands, exposed himself to the descending ruin; such
was the posture he was found in by the soldiers, who came to their relief. He grew mightier
from thence; and being now considered by Tiberius as one regardless of himself, all his counsels,
however bloody and destructive, were listened to with blind credulity: so that he assumed the
office of a judge against the offspring of Germanicus, and suborned such as were to act the
parts of accusers, and especially to pursue and blacken Nero, the next in succession; a young
Prince modest indeed, but forgetful of that restraint and circumspection which his present
situation required. He was misguided by his freedmen and the retainers to his house; who eager
to be masters of power, animated him with intemperate counsels; "that he would show a spirit
resolute and assured; it was what the Roman People wished, what the armies longed for: nor
would Sejanus dare then to resist; though he now equally insulted the tameness of an old man
and the sloth of a young one."

While he listened to these and the like suggestions, there escaped him, no expressions, in
truth, of any criminal purpose; but sometimes such as were resentful and unguarded: these were
catched up by the spies placed upon him, and charged against him with aggravations; neither
was he allowed the privilege of clearing himself. Several threatening appearances moreover
dismayed him: some avoided to meet him; others having just paid him the salute, turned instantly
away: many, in the midst of conversation, broke off and left him; while the creatures of Sejanus
stood still fearlessly by and sneered upon him. For Tiberius; he always entertained him with
a stern face, or a hollow smile; and whether the youth spoke or said nothing, there were crimes
in his words, crimes in his silence: nor was he safe even at the dead of night; since his uneasiness
and watchings, nay, his very sighs and dreams were, by his wife, divulged to her mother Livia,
and by Livia to Sejanus; who had also drawn his brother Drusus into the combination, by tempting
him with the immediate prospect of Empire, if his elder brother, already sinking, were once
set effectually aside. The genius of Druses naturally furious, instigated besides by a passion
for power, and by the usual hate and competition between brothers, was further kindled by the
partiality of Agrippina, who was fonder of Nero. However, Sejanus did not so far favour Drusus,
but that against him too he was even then ripening the studied measures of future destruction;
as he knew him to be violent, and thence more obnoxious to snares.

In the end of the year departed these eminent persons; Asinius Agrippa, of ancestors more illustrious
than ancient, and in his own character not unworthy of them: and Quintus Haterius, of a Senatorian
family, and himself, while he yet lived, famous for eloquence: but the monuments of his genius,
since published, are not equally esteemed. In truth, he prevailed more by rapidity than accuracy:
insomuch that, as the elaborate compositions of others flourish after them; so that enchanting
melody of voice in Haterius, with that fluency of words which was personal to him, died with him.

In the Consulship of Marcus Licinius and Lucius Calpurnius, the casualty of an instant, its
beginning unforeseen, and ended as soon as begun, equalled in calamity the slaughter and overthrow
of mighty armies. One Atilius had undertaken to erect an amphitheatre at Fidena, [Footnote:
Castel Giubileo, near Rome.] there to exhibit a combat of gladiators: he was of the race of
freedmen, and as he began it from no exuberance of wealth, nor to court popularity amongst
the inhabitants, but purely for the meanness of gain, he neither established solid foundations,
nor raised the timber-work with sufficient compactness. Thither thronged from Rome those of
every sex and age, eager for such shows; as during the reign of Tiberius they were debarred
from diversions at home; and, the nearer the place, the greater the crowds: hence the calamity
was the more dreadful; for, as the theatre was surcharged with the multitude, the structure
burst, and sinking violently in, while its extremities rushed impetuously out, huge was the
press of people, who intent upon the gladiators within, or gathered round the walls, were crushed
by the deadly ruin, and even buried under it. And verily, they who in the first fury of the
havoc were smitten with final death, escaped as far as in such a doleful disaster they could
escape, the misery of torture: much more to be lamented were those, who bereft of joints and
pieces of their body, were yet not forsaken of life; those who by day could with their eyes
behold their wives and children imprisoned in the same ruins; and by night could distinguish
them by their groans, and howlings.

Now others from abroad excited by the sad tidings, found here their several sorrows: one bewailed
his brother, one his kinsman, another his parents: even they whose friends or kindred were
absent on a different account, were yet terrified: for, as it was not hitherto distinctly known
upon whom the destruction had lighted, the dread was widened by uncertainty. When the ruins
began to be removed, great about the dead was the concourse of the living; frequent the kisses
and embraces of tenderness and sorrow: and even frequent the contention about the propriety
of the dead; where the features distorted by death or bruises, or where parity of age or resemblance
of person, had confounded the slain, and led into mistakes their several claimers. Fifty thousand
souls were destroyed or maimed by this sad stroke: it was therefore for the future provided
by a decree of Senate, "that no man under the qualification of four hundred thousand sesterces,
[Footnote: L3,300.] should exhibit the spectacle of gladiators; and no amphitheatre should
be founded but upon ground manifestly solid." Atilius was punished with exile. To conclude;
during the fresh pangs of this calamity, the doors of the Grandees were thrown open; medicines
were everywhere furnished; they who administered medicines, were everywhere employed to attend:
and at that juncture the city though sorrowful of aspect, seemed to have recalled the public
spirit of the ancient Romans; who, after great battles, constantly relieved the wounded, sustained
them by liberality, and restored them with care.

The public agonies from this terrible blow, were not yet deadened, when another supervened;
and the city felt the affliction and violence of fire, which with uncommon rage utterly consumed
Mount Caelius. "It was a deadly and mournful year," they said, "and under boding omens the
Prince had formed the design of his absence." It is the way this of the multitude; who to malignant
counsels are wont to ascribe events altogether fortuitous. But the Emperor dissipated their
murmurs, by bestowing on each sufferer money to the value of his sufferings: hence he had the
thanks of men of rank, in the Senate; and was by the populace rewarded with applauses, "for
that without the views of ambition, without the application of friends, he had of his own accord
even sought out the unknown, and by his bounty relieved them." It was likewise moved and decreed
in Senate, "that Mount Caelius should be for the future styled Mount Augustus, since there
the statue of Tiberius, standing in the house of Junius the Senator, escaped unhurt in the
flames, though devouring all round them:" it was remembered, that the same rare exemption had
formerly happened to Claudia Pulchra; that her statue being twice spared by the fury of fire,
had thence been placed and consecrated by our ancestors in the Temple of the Mother of the
Gods. Thus sacred were the Claudian race, and dear to the deities; and therefore the place,
where the Gods had testified such mighty honour towards the Prince, ought to be dignified with
consecration.

It will not be impertinent to insert here, that this mount was of old named Querquetulanus,
from a grove of oak which grew thick upon it. It was afterwards called Mount Caelius, from
Caeles Vibenna, who having led to Rome a body of Tuscan auxiliaries, was presented with that
settlement by Tarquinius Priscus, or some other of our kings; for in this particular, writers
differ: about other circumstances there remains no dispute; that these forces were very numerous,
and extended their dwellings all along the plain below, as far as the Forum. Hence the Tuscan
Street, so called after these strangers.

Tiberius, having dedicated the temples in Campania; though he had by an edict warned the public,
"that none should interrupt his quiet;" and though soldiers were posted to keep off all confluence
from the neighbouring towns; nevertheless, hating the towns themselves, and the colonies, and
every part in the continent, imprisoned himself in Capreae, [Footnote: Capri.] an island disjoined
from the point of the Cape of Surrentum by a channel of three miles. I should chiefly believe
that he was taken with its solitude, as the sea above it is void of havens, as the stations
for the smallest vessels are few and difficult, and as none could put in unperceived by the
Guards. The genius of the climate is mild in winter, from the shelter of a mountain which intercepts
the rigour of the winds: its summers are refreshed by gales from the west; and the sea open
all round it, makes a delightful view: from thence too was beheld a most lovely landscape,
before the eruptions of Mount Vesuvius had changed the face of the prospect. It is the tradition
of fame that the Greeks occupied the opposite region, and that Capreae was particularly inhabited
by the Teleboi. However it were, Tiberius then confined his retirement to twelve villas, their
names famous of old and their structure sumptuous. And the more intent he had formerly been
upon public cares, he became now so much the more buried in dark debauches, and resigned over
to mischievous privacy: for, there remained still in him his old bent to suspicions, and rash
faith in informers; qualities which even at Rome Sejanus had always fostered, and here inflamed
more vigorously; his devices against Agrippina and Nero being no longer a secret. About them
guards were placed, by whom every petty circumstance, the messages they sent or received, their
visits and company, their open behaviour, their private conversation, were all as it were minuted
into journals: there were others, too, instructed to warn them to fly to the armies in Germany;
or that embracing the statue of the deified Augustus in the great Forum, they would there implore
the aid and protection of the Senate and People of Rome. And these counsels, though rejected
by them, were fathered and charged upon them, as just ripe for execution.

BOOK V

A.D. 29-31.

In the Consulship of Rubellius and Fusius, each surnamed Geminus, died Julia Augusta, the mother
of Tiberius, in the extremity of age. She was descended from the Claudian house; adopted through
her father into the Livian family; into the Julian, by Augustus; and both by adoption and descent,
signally noble: her first marriage was with Tiberius Nero; and by him she had children: her
husband, after the surrender of Perusia, [Footnote: Perugia.] in the Civil War, became a fugitive;
but, upon peace made between Sextus Pompeius and the Triumvirate, returned to Rome. Afterwards,
Octavius Caesar smitten with her beauty, snatched her from her husband; whether with or against
her own inclinations, is uncertain; but with such precipitation, that, without staying for
her delivery, he married her yet big with child by Tiberius. Henceforward she had no issue;
but, by the marriage of Germanicus and Agrippina, her blood came to be mixed with that of Augustus
in their great-grandchildren. In her domestic deportment, she conformed to the venerable model
of antiquity; but with more complaisance than was allowed by the ladies of old: an easy courteous
wife, an ambitious mother; and well comporting with the nice arts of her husband, and the dissimulation
of her son: her funeral was moderate, and her last will lay long unfulfilled: her encomium
was pronounced in public by Caligula, her grandson, [Footnote: Great-grandson.] afterwards Emperor.

Tiberius by a letter excused himself to the Senate, for not having paid his last offices to
his mother; and, though he rioted in private luxury without abatement, pleaded "the multitude
of public affairs." He likewise abridged the honours decreed to her memory, and, of a large
number, admitted but very few: for this restriction he pretended modesty, and added, "that
no religious worship should be appointed her; for that the contrary was her own choice." Nay,
in a part of the same letter, he censured feminine friendships; obliquely upbraiding the Consul
Fusius, a man highly distinguished by the favour of Augusta, and dexterous to engage and cajole
the affections of women; a gay talker, and one accustomed to play upon Tiberius with biting
sarcasms; the impressions of which never die in the hearts of Princes.

From this moment, the domination waxed completely outrageous and devouring: for while she lived,
some refuge still remained, as the observance of Tiberius towards his mother was ever inviolate;
nor durst Sejanus arrogate precedence of the authority of a parent: but now, as let loose from
all restraint, they broke out with unbridled fury: so that letters were despatched avowedly
against Agrippina and Nero; and as they were read in the Senate soon after the death of Augusta,
the people believed them to have been sent before and by her suppressed. The expressions were
elaborately bitter; and yet by them no hostile purpose of taking arms, no endeavour to change
the State, was objected to the youth; but only "the love of boys, and other impure pleasures:"
against Agrippina he durst not even feign so much; and therefore arraigned "her haughty looks,
her impetuous and stubborn spirit." The Senate were struck with deep silence and affright:
but, as particular men will always be drawing personal favour from public miseries, there were
some who, having no hopes founded upon uprightness, demanded that "they should proceed upon
the letters:" amongst these the foremost in zeal was Cotta Messalinus, with a terrible motion:
but, the other leading men, and chiefly the magistrates, were embarrassed by fear: for Tiberius,
though he had sent them a flaming invective, left all the rest a riddle.

In the Senate was one Junius Rusticus, appointed by the Emperor to keep a journal of their
proceedings, and therefore thought well acquainted with his purposes. This man, by some fatal
impulse (for he had never before shown any instance of magnanimity) or blinded by deceitful
policy, while forgetful of present and impending dangers, he dreaded future possibilities,
joined the party that hesitated, and even warned the Consuls "not to begin the debate:" he
argued "that in a short moment the highest affairs might take a new turn: and an interval ought
to be allowed to the old man to change his passion into remorse." At the same time, the people,
carrying with them the images of Agrippina and Nero, gathered about the Senate, and proclaiming
their good wishes for the prosperity of the Emperor, cried earnestly, "that the letters were
counterfeit; and, against the consent of the Prince, the doom of his family was pursued:" so
that nothing tragical was that day transacted. There were also dispersed amongst them several
speeches, said to have been uttered in Senate by the Consulars, as their motions and advices
against Sejanus; but all framed, and with the more petulance as the several authors exercised
their satirical wit in the dark. Hence Sejanus boiled with greater rage, and hence had a handle
for branding the Senate, "that by them the anguish and resentments of the Prince were despised:
the people were revolted; popular and disaffected harangues were publicly read and listened
to: new and arbitrary acts of Senate were passed and published: what more remained, but to
arm the populace and place at their head, as leaders and Imperial commanders, those whose images
they had already chosen for standards?"

Tiberius having therefore repeated his reproaches against his grandson and daughter-in-law:
having chastised the people by an edict, and complained to the Senate, "that by the fraud of
a single Senator the Imperial dignity should be battled and insulted, required that the whole
affair should be left to himself, entire and untouched." The Senate hesitated no longer, but
instantly proceeded, not now in truth to decree penalties and capital vengeance; for that was
forbid them; but to testify "how ready they were to inflict just punishments, and that they
were only interrupted by the power and pleasure of the Prince."...

[Here begins a lamentable chasm in this "Annal" for almost three years; and by it we have lost
the detail of the most remarkable incidents in this reign, the exile of Agrippina into the
Isle of Pandataria; of Nero, into that of Pontia; and the murder of both there by the orders
of Tiberius: the conspiracy and execution of Sejanus, with that of all his friends and dependents:
the further wickedness of Livia, and her death.]

Now though the rage of the populace was expiring, and though most men were mollified by former
executions; it was determined to condemn the other children of Sejanus. They were therefore
carried both to prison, the boy sensible of his impending doom; but the girl so ignorant, that
she frequently asked; "For what offence? and whither did they drag her? she would do so no
more; and they might take the rod and whip her." The writers of that time relate, "that as
it was a thing unheard, for a virgin to suffer capital punishment, she was deflowered by the
executioner just before he tied the rope; and that being both strangled, the tender bodies
of these children were cast into the place where the carcasses of malefactors are exposed,
before they are flung into the Tiber."...

BOOK VI

A.D. 32-37.

Cneius Domitius and Camillus Scribonianus had begun their Consulship, when the Emperor, having
crossed the channel between Capreae [Footnote: Capri.] and Surrentum, [Footnote: Sorrento.]
sailed along the shore of Campania; unresolved whether he should proceed to Rome; or counterfeiting
a show of coming, because he had determined not to come. He often approached to the neighbourhood
of the city, and even visited the gardens upon the Tiber; but at last resumed his old retirement,
the gloomy rocks and solitude of the sea, ashamed of his cruelties, and abominable lusts; in
which he rioted so outrageously, that after the fashion of royal tyrants, the children of ingenuous
parentage became the objects of his pollution: nor in them was he struck with a lovely face
only, or the graces of their persons; but in some their amiable and childish innocence, in
others their nobility and the glory of their ancestors, became the provocatives of his unnatural
passion. Then likewise were devised the filthy names, till then unknown, of the Sellarii and
Spintriae, expressing the odious lewdness of the place, and the manifold postures and methods
of prostitution practised in it. For supplying his lust with these innocent victims, he entertained,
in his service professed procurers, to look them out and carry them off. The willing they encouraged
with presents, the backward they terrified with threats; and upon such parents or kindred as
withheld the infants, they exercised force, seizure, and, as upon so many captives, every species
of licentious rage.

At Rome in the beginning of the year, as if the iniquities of Livia had been but just discovered,
and not even long since punished, furious orders were passed against her statues too, and memory;
with another, "that the effects of Sejanus should be taken from the public treasury, and placed
in that of the Emperor:" as if this vain translation could any wise avail the State. And yet
such was the motion of these great names, the Scipios, the Silani, and the Cassii; who urged
it, each almost in the same words, but all with mighty zeal and earnestness: when all on a
sudden, Togonius Gallus, while he would be thrusting his own meanness amongst names so greatly
illustrious, became the object of derision: for he besought the Prince "to choose a body of
Senators of whom twenty, drawn by lot and under arms, should wait upon him and defend his person,
as often as he entered the Senate." He had been weak enough to credit a letter from the Emperor,
requiring "the guard and protection of one of the Consuls, that he might return in safety from
Capreae to Rome." Tiberius however returned thanks to the Senate for such an instance of affection;
but as he was wont to mix pleasantry with things serious, he asked, "How was it to be executed?
what Senators were to be chosen? who to be omitted? whether always the same, or a continued
succession? whether young Senators, or such as had borne dignities? whether those who were
Magistrates, or those exercising no magistracy? moreover what a becoming figure they would
make, grave Senators, men of the gown, under arms at the entrance of the Senate! in truth he
held not his life of such importance, to have it thus protected by arms." So much in answer
to Togonius, without asperity of words; nor did he farther, than this, press them to cancel
the motion.

But Junius Gallio escaped not thus. He had proposed "that the Praetorian soldiers, having accomplished
their term of service, should thence acquire the privilege of sitting in the fourteen rows
of the theatre allotted to the Roman knights." Upon him Tiberius fell with violent wrath, and,
as if present, demanded, what business had he with the soldiers? men whose duty bound them
to observe only the orders of the Emperor, and from the Emperor alone to receive their rewards.
Gallio had forsooth discovered a recompense which had escaped the sagacity of the deified Augustus?
Or was it not rather a project started by a mercenary of Sejanus, to raise sedition and discord;
a project tending to debauch the rude minds of the soldiers with the show and bait of new honour;
to corrupt their discipline, and set them loose from military restrictions? This reward, had
the studied flattery of Gallio; who was instantly expelled the Senate, and then Italy: nay,
it became a charge upon him, that his exile would be too easy, having for the place of it chosen
Lesbos, an island noble and delightful; he was therefore haled back to Rome and confined a
prisoner in the house of a Magistrate. Tiberius in the same letter demanded the doom of Sextus
Paconianus, formerly Praetor, to the extreme joy of the Senate, as he was a man bold and mischievous,
one armed with snares, and continually diving into the purposes and secret transactions of
all men; and one chosen by Sejanus, for plotting the overthrow of Caligula. When this was now
laid open, the general hate and animosities long since conceived against him, broke violently
out, and had he not offered to make a discovery, he had been instantly condemned to death.

The next impeached was Cotta Messalinus, the author of every the most bloody counsel, and thence
long and intensely hated. The first opportunity was therefore snatched to fall upon him with
a combination of crimes; as that he had called Caius Caligula by the feminine name of Caia
Caligula, and branded him with constuprations of both kinds; that when he celebrated among
the Priests the birthday of Augusta, he had styled the entertainment a funeral supper; and
that complaining of the great sway of Marcus Lepidus, and of Lucius Arruntius, with whom he
had a suit about money, he had added; "they indeed will be supported by the Senate, but I by
my little Tiberius." [Footnote: Tiberiolus meus.] Of all this he stood exposed to conviction
by men of the first rank in Rome; who being earnest to attack him, he appealed to Caesar: from
whom soon after a letter was brought in behalf of Cotta; in it he recounted "the beginning
of their friendship," repeated "his many good services to himself," and desired "that words
perversely construed, and humorous tales told at an entertainment, might not be wrested into
crimes."

Most remarkable was the beginning of that letter; for in these words he introduced it: "What
to write you, Conscript Fathers, or in what manner to write, or what at all not to write at
this instant; if I can determine, may all the Deities, Gods and Goddesses, doom me still to
more cruel agonies than those under which I feel myself perishing daily." So closely did the
bloody horror of his cruelties and infamy haunt this man of blood, and became his torturers!
Nor was it at random what the wisest of all men [Footnote: Socrates.] was wont to affirm, that
if the hearts of tyrants were displayed, in them might be seen deadly wounds and gorings, and
all the butcheries of fear and rage; seeing what the severity of stripes is to the body, the
same to the soul is the bitter anguish of cruelty, lust, and execrable pursuits. To Tiberius
not his imperial fortune, not his gloomy and inaccessible solitudes could ensure tranquillity;
nor exempt him from feeling and even avowing the rack in his breast and the avenging furies
that pursued him.

After this, it was left to the discretion of the Senate to proceed as they listed against Caecilianus
the Senator, "who had loaded Cotta with many imputations;" and it was resolved, "to subject
him to the same penalties inflicted upon Aruseius and Sanquinius, the accusers of Lucius Annuntius."
A more signal instance of honour than this had never befallen Cotta; who noble in truth, but
through luxury indigent, and, for the baseness of his crimes, detestable, was by the dignity
of this amends equalled in character to the most venerable reputation and virtues of Arruntius.

About the same time died Lucius Piso, the Pontiff; and, by a felicity, then rare in so much
splendour and elevation, died by the course of nature. The author he never himself was of any
servile motion, and ever wise in moderating such motions from others, where necessity enforced
his assent. That his father had sustained the sublime office of Censor, I have before remembered:
he himself lived to fourscore years, and for his warlike feats in Thrace, had obtained the
glory of triumph. But from hence arose his most distinguished glory, that being created Governor
of Rome, a jurisdiction newly instituted, and the more difficult, as not yet settled into public
reverence, he tempered it wonderfully and possessed it long.

For, of old, to supply the absence of the Kings, and afterwards of the Consuls, that the city
might not remain without a ruler, a temporary Magistrate was appointed to administer justice,
and watch over exigencies: and it is said that by Romulus was deputed Denter Romulius; Numa
Marcius, by Tullus Hostilius; and by Tarquin the Proud, Spurius Lucretius. The same delegation
was made by the Consuls; and there remains still a shadow of the old institution, when during
the Latin festival, one is authorised to discharge the Consular function. Moreover, Augustus
during the Civil Wars, committed to Cilnius Maecenas of the Equestrian Order, the Government
of Rome and of all Italy. Afterwards, when sole master of the Empire, and moved by the immense
multitude of people and the slowness of relief from the laws, he chose a Consular to bridle
the licentiousness of the slaves, and to awe such turbulent citizens as are only quiet from
the dread of chastisement. Messala Corvinus was the first invested with this authority, and
in a few days dismissed, as a man insufficient to discharge it. It was then filled by Taurus
Statilius, who, though very ancient, sustained it with signal honour. After him Piso held it
for twenty years, with a credit so high and uninterrupted, that he was distinguished with a
public funeral, by decree of the Senate.

A motion was thereafter made in Senate by Quinctilianus, Tribune of the People, concerning
a Book of the Sibyl, which Caninius Gallus, one of the College of Fifteen, had prayed "might
be received by a decree amongst the rest of that Prophetess." The decree passed without opposition,
but was followed by letters from Tiberius. In them having gently chid the Tribune, "as young
and therefore unskilled in the ancient usages," he upbraided Gallus, "that he who was so long
practised in the science of sacred ceremonies, should without taking the opinion of his own
college, without the usual reading and deliberation with the other Priests, deal, by surprise,
with a thin Senate, to admit a prophetic book of an uncertain author." He also advertised them
"of the conduct of Augustus, who, to suppress the multitude of fictious predictions everywhere
published under the solemn name of the Sibyl, had ordained, that within a precise day, they
should be carried to the City Praetor; and made it unlawful to keep them in private hands."
The same had likewise been decreed by our ancestors, when after the burning of the capitol
in the Social War, the Rhymes of the Sibyl (whether there were but one, or more) were everywhere
sought, in Samos, Ilium, and Erythrae, through Africa too and Sicily and all the Roman colonies,
with injunctions to the Priests, that, as far as human wit could enable them, they would separate
the genuine. Therefore, upon this occasion also, the book was subjected to the inspection of
the Quindecimvirate.

Under the same Consuls, the dearth of corn had nigh raised a sedition. The populace for many
days urged their wants and demands in the public theatre, with a licentiousness towards the
Emperor, higher than usual. He was alarmed with this bold spirit, and censured the Magistrates
and Senate, "that they had not by the public authority quelled the people." He recounted "the
continued supplies of grain which he had caused to be imported; from what provinces, and in
how much greater abundance than those procured by Augustus." So that for correcting the populace,
a decree passed framed in the strain of ancient severity: nor less vigorous was the edict published
by the Consuls. His own silence, which he hoped would be taken by the people as an instance
of moderation, was by them imputed to his pride.

In the meanwhile, the whole band of accusers broke loose upon those who augmented their wealth
by usury, in contradiction to a law of Caesar the Dictator, "for ascertaining the terms of
lending money, and holding mortgages in Italy;" a law waxed long since obsolete, through the
selfish passions of men, sacrificing public good to private gain. Usury was, in truth, an inveterate
evil in Rome, and the eternal cause of civil discord and seditions, and therefore restrained
even in ancient times, while the public manners were not yet greatly corrupted. For, first
it was ordained by a law of the twelve tables, "that no man should take higher interest than
twelve in the hundred;" when, before, it was exacted at the pleasure of the rich. Afterwards
by a regulation of the Tribunes it was reduced to six, and at last was quite abolished. By
the people, too, repeated statutes were made, for obviating all elusions, which by whatever
frequent expedients repressed, were yet through wonderful devices still springing up afresh.
Gracchus the Praetor was therefore now appointed to inquire into the complaints and allegations
of the accusers; but, appalled with the multitude of those threatened by the accusation, he
had recourse to the Senate. The Fathers also were dismayed (for of this fault not a soul was
guiltless) and sought and obtained impunity from the Prince; and a year and six months were
granted for balancing all accounts between debtors and creditors, agreeably to the direction
of the law.

Hence a great scarcity of money: for, besides that all debts were at once called in; so many
delinquents were condemned, that by the sale of their effects, the current coin was swallowed
up in the public treasury, or in that of the Emperor. Against this stagnation, the Senate had
provided, "that two-thirds of the debts should by every creditor be laid out upon lands in
Italy." But the creditors warned in the whole; [Footnote: Demanded payment in full.] nor could
the debtors without breach of faith divide the payment. So that at first, meetings and entreaties
were tried; and at last it was contested before the Praetor. And the project applied as a remedy;
namely, that the debtor should sell, and the creditor buy, had a contrary operation: for the
usurers hoarded up all their treasure for purchasing of lands, and the plenty of estates to
be sold, miserably sinking the price; the more men were indebted, the more difficult they found
it to sell. Many were utterly stripped of their fortunes; and the ruin of their private patrimony
drew headlong with it that of their reputation and all public preferment. The destruction was
going on, when the Emperor administered relief, by lending a hundred thousand great sesterces
[Footnote: About L830,000.] for three years, without interest; provided each borrower pawned
to the people double the value in inheritance. [Footnote: Gave a security to the State, on
landed property.] Thus was credit restored; and by degrees private lenders too were found.

About the same time, Claudia, daughter to Marcus Silanus, was given in marriage to Caligula,
who had accompanied his grandfather to Capreae, having always hid under a subdolous guise of
modesty, his savage and inhuman spirit: even upon the condemnation of his mother, even for
the exile of his brothers, not a word escaped him, not a sigh, nor groan. So blindly observant
of Tiberius, that he studied the bent of his temper and seemed to possess it; practised his
looks, imitated the change and fashion of his dress, and affected his words and manner of expression.
Hence the observation of Passienus the Orator, grew afterwards famous, "that never lived a
better slave nor a worse master." Neither would I omit the presage of Tiberius concerning Galba,
then Consul. Having sent for him and sifted him upon several subjects, he at last told him
in Greek, "and thou, Galba, shalt hereafter taste of Empire;" signifying his late and short
sovereignty. This he uttered from his skill in astrology, which at Rhodes he had leisure to
learn; and Thrasullus for his teacher, whose capacity he proved by this following trial.

As often as he consulted this way concerning any affair, he retired to the roof of the house,
attended by one freedman trusted with the secret. This man strong of body, but destitute of
letters, guided along the astrologer, whose art Tiberius meant to try, over solitary precipices
(for upon a rock the house stood) and, as he returned, if any suspicion arose that his predictions
were vain, or that the author designed fraud, cast him headlong into the sea, to prevent his
making discoveries. Thrasullus being therefore led over the same rocks, and minutely consulted,
his answers were full, and struck Tiberius; as approaching Empire and many future revolutions
were specifically foretold him. The artist was then questioned, "whether he had calculated
his own nativity, and thence presaged what was to befall him that same year, nay, that very
day?" Thrasullus surveying the positions of the stars, and calculating their aspects, began
at first to hesitate, then to quake, and the more he meditated, being more and more dismayed
with wonder and dread, he at last cried out, "that over him just then hung a boding danger
and well-nigh fatal." Forthwith Tiberius embraced him, congratulated him "upon his foresight
of perils, and his security from them;" and esteeming his predictions as so many oracles, held
him thenceforward in the rank of his most intimate friends.

For myself, while I listen to these and the like relations, my judgment wavers, whether things
human are in their course and rotation determined by Fate and immutable necessity, or left
to roll at random. For upon this subject the wisest of the ancients and those addicted to their
Sects, are of opposite sentiments. [Footnote: The Epicureans.] Many are of opinion "that to
the Gods neither the generation of us men nor our death, and in truth neither men nor the actions
of men, are of any importance or concernment: and thence such numberless calamities afflict
the upright, while pleasure and prosperity surround the wicked." Others [Footnote: The Stoics.]
hold the contrary position, and believe "a Fate to preside over events; a fate however not
resulting from wandering stars, but coeval with the first principles of things, and operating
by the continued connection of natural causes. Yet their philosophy leaves our course of life
in our own free option; but that after the choice is made, the chain of consequences is inevitable:
neither is that good or evil, which passes for such in the estimation of the vulgar: many,
who seem wounded with adversity, are yet happy; numbers, that wallow in wealth, are yet most
wretched: since the first often bear with magnanimity the blows of fortune; and the latter
abuse her bounty in baneful pursuits." For the rest, it is common to multitudes of men "to
have each their whole future fortunes determined from the moment of their birth: or if some
events thwart the prediction, it is through the mistakes of such as pronounce at random, and
thence debase the credit of an art, which, both in ages past and our own, hath given signal
instances of its certainty." For, to avoid lengthening this digression, I shall remember in
its order, how by the son of this same Thrasullus the Empire was predicted to Nero.

During the same Consulship flew abroad the death of Asinius Gallus: that he perished through
famine was undoubted; but whether of his own accord, or by constraint, was held uncertain.
The pleasure of the Emperor being consulted, "whether he would suffer him to be buried;" he
was not ashamed to grant such a piece of mock mercy, nor even to blame the anticipations of
casualty, which had withdrawn the criminal, before he was publicly convicted: as if during
three intermediate years between his accusation and his death, there wanted time for the trial
of an ancient Consular, and the father of so many Consulars. Next perished Drusus, condemned
by his grandfather to be starved; but by gnawing the weeds upon which he lay, he by that miserable
nourishment protracted life the space of nine days. Some authors relate that, in case Sejanus
had resisted and taken arms, Macro had instructions to draw the young man out of confinement
(for he was kept in the palace) and set him at the head of the people: afterwards because a
report ran, "that the Emperor was about to be reconciled to his daughter- in-law and grandson;"
he chose rather to gratify himself by cruelty, than the public by relenting.

Tiberius not satiated with the death of Drusus, even after death pursued him with cruel invectives,
and, in a letter to the Senate, charged him with "a body foul with prostitution; with a spirit
breathing destruction to his own family, and rage against the Republic;" and ordered to be
recited "the minutes of his words and actions, which had been long and daily registered," A
proceeding more black with horror could not be devised! That for so many years, there should
be those expressly appointed, who were to note down his looks, his groans, his secret and extorted
murmurs; that his grandfather should delight to hear the treacherous detail, to read it, and
to the public expose it, would appear a series of fraud, meanness and amazement beyond all
measure of faith, were it not for the letters of Actius the Centurion, and Didymus the Freedman;
who in them declare, particularly, the names of the slaves set purposely to abuse and provoke
Drusus, with the several parts they acted; how one struck him going out of his chamber, and
how another filled him with terrors and dismay. The Centurion too repeated, as matter of glory,
his own language to Drusus, language full of outrage and barbarity, with the words uttered
by him under the agonies of famine; that, at first, feigning disorder of spirit, he vented,
in the style of a madman, dismal denunciations against Tiberius; but after all hopes of life
had forsaken him, then, in steady and deliberate imprecations, he invoked the direful vengeance
of the Gods, "that as he had slaughtered his son's wife, slaughtered the son of his brother,
and his son's sons, and with slaughters had filled his own house; so they would in justice
to the ancestors of the slain, in justice to their posterity, doom him to the dreadful penalties
of so many murders." The Senators, in truth, upon this raised a mighty din, under colour of
detesting these imprecations: but it was dread which possessed them, and amazement, that he
who had been once so dark in the practice of wickedness, and so subtle in the concealment of
his bloody spirit, was arrived at such an utter insensibility of shame, that he could thus
remove, as it were, the covert of the walls, and represent his own grandson under the ignominious
chastisement of a Centurion, torn by the barbarous stripes of slaves, and imploring in vain
the last sustenance of life.

Before the impressions of this grief were worn away, the death of Agrippina was published.
I suppose she had lived thus long upon the hopes, which from the execution of Sejanus she had
conceived; but, feeling afterwards no relaxation of cruelty, death grew her choice: unless
she were bereaved of nourishment, and her decease feigned to have been of her own seeking.
For, Tiberius raged against her with abominable imputations, reproaching her "with lewdness;
as the adulteress of Asinius Gallus; and that upon his death she became weary of life." But
these were none of her crimes: Agrippina impatient of an equal lot, and eager for rule, had
thence sacrificed to masculine ambition all the passions and vices of women. The Emperor added,
"that she departed the same day on which Sejanus had suffered as a traitor two years before,
and that the same ought to be perpetuated by a public memorial." Nay, he boasted of his clemency,
in "that she had not been strangled, and her body cast into the charnel of malefactors." For
this, as for an instance of mercy the Senate solemnly thanked him, and decreed "that, on the
seventeenth of October, the day of both their deaths, a yearly offering should be consecrated
to Jupiter for ever."

Not long after, Cocceius Nerva, in full prosperity of fortune, in perfect vigour of body, formed
a purpose of dying. As he was the incessant companion of the Prince, and accomplished in the
knowledge of all laws divine and humane, Tiberius having learnt his design, was earnest to
dissuade him, examined his motives, joined entreaties, and even declared, "how grievous to
his own spirit it would prove, how grievous to his reputation, if the nearest of his friends
should relinquish life, without any cause for dying." Nerva rejected his reasoning, and completed
his purpose by abstinence. It was alleged, by such as knew his thoughts, that the more he saw
into the dreadful source and increase of public miseries, the more transported with indignation
and fear, he resolved to make an honest end, in the bloom of his integrity, e'er his life and
credit were assaulted. Moreover the fall of Agrippina, by a reverse hardly credible, procured
that of Plancina. She was formerly married to Cneius Piso; and, though she exulted publicly
for the death of Germanicus, yet when Piso fell, she was protected by the solicitations of
Augusta, nor less by the known animosity of Agrippina. But as favour and hate were now withdrawn,
justice prevailed, and being questioned for crimes long since sufficiently manifest, she executed
with her own hand that vengeance, which was rather too slow than too severe,

In the Consulship of Paulus Fabius and Lucius Vitellius, after a long vicissitude of ages,
the phoenix arrived in Egypt, and furnished the most learned of the natives and Greeks with
matter of large and various observations concerning that miraculous bird. The circumstances
in which they agree, with many others, that, however disputed, deserve to be known, claim a
recital here. That it is a creature sacred to the sun, and in the fashion of its head, and
diversity of feathers, distinct from other birds, all who have described its figure, are agreed;
about the length of its life, relations vary. It is by the vulgar tradition fixed at five hundred
years: but there are those, who extend it to one thousand four hundred and sixty-one; and assert
that the three former phoenixes appeared in reigns greatly distant, the first under Sesostris,
the next under Amasis; and that one was seen under Ptolomy the third King of Egypt of the Macedonian
race, and flew to the city of Heliopolis, accompanied by a vast host of other birds gazing
upon the wonderful stranger. But these are, in truth, the obscure accounts of antiquity: between
Ptolomy and Tiberius the interval was shorter, not two hundred and fifty years: hence some
have believed that the present was a spurious phoenix, and derived not its origin from the
territories of Arabia, since it observed nothing of the instinct which ancient tradition attributes
to the genuine: for that the latter having completed his course of years, just before his death
builds a nest in his native land, and upon it sheds a generative power, from whence arises
a young one, whose first care, when he is grown, is to bury his father: neither does he undertake
it unadvisedly, but by collecting and fetching loads of myrrh, tries his strength in great
journeys; and as soon as he finds himself equal to the burden, and fit for the long flight,
he rears upon his back his father's body, carries it quite to the altar of the sun, and then
flies away. These are uncertain tales, and their uncertainty heightened by fables; but that
this bird has been sometimes seen in Egypt, is not questioned.

The same year the city suffered the grievous calamity of fire, which burnt down that part of
the Circus contiguous to Mount Aventine and the Mount itself: a loss which turned to the glory
of the Prince, as he paid in money the value of the houses destroyed. A hundred thousand great
sesterces [Footnote: About L830,000.] he expended in this bounty, which proved the more grateful
to the people as he was ever sparing in private buildings: in truth, his public works never
exceeded two, the Temple of Augustus and the scene [Footnote: The stage.] of Pompey's Theatre;
nor, when he had finished both, did he dedicate either, whether obstructed by old age, or despising
popularity. For ascertaining the damage of particulars, the four sons-in-law of Tiberius were
appointed, Cneius Domitius, Cassius Longinus, Marcus Vincinus and Rubellius Blandus; assisted
by Publius Petronius, nominated by the Consuls. To the Emperor likewise were decreed several
honours, variously devised according to the different drift and genius of such as proposed
them. Which of these he meant to accept, or which to reject, the approaching issue of his days,
has buried in uncertainty. For not long after, Cneius Acerronius and Caius Pontius commenced
Consuls; the last under Tiberius. The power of Macro was already excessive; who, as he had
at no time neglected the favour of Caligula, courted it now more and more earnestly every day.
After the death of Claudia, whom I have mentioned to have been espoused to the young Prince,
he constrained Ennia his own wife to stimulate the affections of Caligula and to secure him
by a promise of marriage. The truth is, he was one that denied nothing that opened his way
to sovereignty; for although of a tempestuous genius, he had yet in the school of his grandfather,
well acquired all the hollow guises of dissimulation.

His spirit was known to the Emperor; hence he was puzzled about bequeathing the Empire: and
first as to his grandsons; the son of Drusus was nearer in blood, and dearer in point of affection,
but as yet a child; the son of Germanicus had arrived at the vigour of youth, and the zeal
of the people followed him, a motive this to his grandfather, only to hate him. He had even
debates with himself concerning Claudius, because of solid age and naturally inclined to honest
pursuits; but the defect of his faculties withstood the choice. In case he sought a successor
apart from his own family, he dreaded lest the memory of Augustus, lest the name of the Caesars
should come to be scorned and insulted. For, it was not so much any study of his, to gratify
the present generation and secure the Roman State, as to perpetuate to posterity the grandeur
of his race. So that his mind still wavering and his strength decaying, to the decision of
fortune he permitted a counsel to which he was now unequal. Yet he dropped certain words whence
might be gathered that he foresaw the events and revolutions which were to come to pass after
him: for, he upbraided Macro, by no dark riddle, "that he forsook the setting sun and courted
the rising:" and of Caligula, who upon some occasional discourse ridiculed Sylla, he foretold,
"that he would have all Sylla's vices, and not one of his virtues." Moreover, as he was, with
many tears, embracing the younger of his grandsons, and perceived the countenance of Caligula
implacable and provoked; "thou," said he, "wilt slay him, and another shall slay thee." But,
however his illness prevailed, he relinquished nothing of his vile voluptuousness; forcing
patience, and feigning health. He was wont too to ridicule the prescriptions of physicians,
and all men who, after the age of thirty, needed to be informed by any one else, what helped
or hurted their constitutions.

At Rome, the while, were sown the sanguinary seeds of executions to be perpetrated even after
Tiberius. Laelius Balbus had with high treason charged Acutia, some time the wife of Publius
Vitellius; and, as the Senate were, after her condemnation, decreeing a reward to the accuser,
the same was obstructed by the interposition of Junius Otho, Tribune of the People: hence their
mutual hate, which ended in the exile of Otho. Thereafter Albucilla, who had been married to
Satrius Secundus, him that revealed the conspiracy of Sejanus, and herself famous for many
amours, was impeached of impious rites devised against the Prince. In the charge were involved,
as her associates and adulterers, Cneius Domitius, Vibius Marsus, and Lucius Arruntius. The
noble descent of Domitius I have above declared: Marsus too was distinguished by the ancient
dignities in his house, and himself illustrious for learning. The minutes, however, transmitted
to the Senate imported, "that in the examination of the witnesses, and torture of the slaves,
Macro had presided:" neither came these minutes accompanied with any letter from the Emperor
against the accused. Hence it was suspected, that, while he was ill, and perhaps without his
privacy, the accusations were in great measure forged by Macro, in consequence of his notorious
enmity to Arruntius.

Domitius therefore by preparing for his defence, and Marsus by seeming determined to famish,
both protracted their lives. Arruntius chose to die; and to the importunity of his friends,
urging him to try delays and evasions, he answered, "that the same measures were not alike
honourable to all men: his own life was abundantly long; nor had he wherewithal to reproach
himself, save that he had submitted to bear thus far an old age loaded with anxieties, exposed
to daily dangers, and the cruel sport of power; long hated as he was by Sejanus, now by Macro,
always by some reigning minister; hated through no fault of his own, but as one irreconcilable
to baseness and the iniquities of power. He might, in truth, outlive and avoid the few and
last days of Tiberius: but how escape the youth of his heir? If upon Tiberius at such an age,
and after such consummate experience, the violent spirit of unbridled dominion had wrought
with such efficacy, as entirely to transport and change him; was it likely that Caligula, he
who had scarce outgrown his childhood, a youth ignorant of all things, or nursed and principled
in the worst, would follow a course more righteous under the guidance of Macro; the same Macro,
who, for destroying Sejanus, was employed as the more wicked of the two, and had since by more
mischiefs and cruelties torn and afflicted the Commonweal? For himself; he foresaw a servitude
yet more vehement, and therefore withdrew at once from the agonies of past and of impending
tyranny." Uttering these words, with the spirit of a prophet, he opened his veins. How wisely
Arruntius anticipated death, the following times will terribly demonstrate. For Albucilla;
she aimed at her own life, but the blow being impotent, she was by order of Senate dragged
to execution in the prison. Against the ministers of her lusts it was decreed, "that Grasidius
Sacerdos, formerly Praetor, should be exiled into an island; Pontius Fregellanus be degraded
from the Senate; and that upon Laelius Balbus the same penalty be inflicted:" his punishment
particularly proved matter of joy, as he was accounted a man of pestilent eloquence, and prompt
to attack the innocent.

About the same time, Sextus Papinius of a Consular family, chose on a sudden a frightful end,
by a desperate and precipitate fall. The cause was ascribed to his mother, who, after many
repulses, had by various allurements and the stimulations of sensuality, urged him to practices
and embarrassments from whence, only by dying, he could devise an issue. She was therefore
accused in the Senate; and, though in a prostrate posture she embraced the knees of the Fathers,
and pleaded "the tenderness and grief of a mother, the imbecility of a woman's spirit under
such an affecting calamity;" with other motives of pity in the same doleful strain; she was
banished Rome for ten years, till her younger son were past the age of lubricity.

As to Tiberius; already his body, already his spirits failed him; but his dissimulation failed
him not. He exerted the same vigour of mind, the same energy in his looks and discourse; and
even sometimes studied to be gay, by it to hide his declension however notorious. So that,
after much shifting of places, he settled at the Promontory of Misenum, in a villa of which
Lucullus was once Lord. There it was discovered that his end was at hand, by this device. In
his train was a physician, his name Charicles, signal in his profession, one, in truth, not
employed to govern the Prince's health, but wont however to afford his counsel and skill. Charicles,
as if he were departing to attend his own affairs, under the appearance of paying duty and
kissing his hands, touched his pulse. But the artifice beguiled not Tiberius; for he instantly
ordered the entertainment to be served up; whether incensed, and thence the more smothering
his wrath, is uncertain: but, at table he continued beyond his wont, as if he meant that honour
only for a farewell to his friend. But for all this Charicles satisfied Macro, "that the flame
of life was expiring, and could not outlast two days." Hence the whole court was filled with
close consultations, and expresses were despatched to the generals and armies. On the 16th
of March, so deep a swoon seized him, that he was believed to have paid the last debt of mortality:
insomuch that Caligula, in the midst of a great throng, paying their congratulations, was already
appearing abroad, to assume the first offices of sovereignty, when sudden notice came, "that
Tiberius had recovered his sight and voice, and, to strengthen his fainting spirits, had called
for some refreshment." Hence dread seized all, and the whole concourse about Caligula dispersed,
every man resuming false sorrow, or feigning ignorance: he himself was struck speechless, and
thus fallen from the highest hopes, waited for present death. Macro continued undismayed, and
ordering the apartment to be cleared, caused the feeble old man to be smothered with a weight
of coverings. Thus expired Tiberius in the seventy-eighth year of his age.

He was the son of Nero, and on both sides a branch of the Claudian House; though his mother
had been ingrafted by adoptions into the Livian, and next into the Julian stock. From his first
infancy, his life was chequered by various turns and perils: for, then he followed, like an
exile, his proscribed father; and when taken in quality of a step-son into the family of Augustus,
he long struggled there with many potent rivals, during the lives of Marcellus and Agrippa;
next of the young Caesars, Caius and Lucius. His brother Drusus too eclipsed him, and possessed
more eminently the hearts of the Roman People. But above all, his marriage with Julia, most
egregiously threatened and distressed him; whether he bore the prostitutions of his wife, or
relinquished the daughter of Augustus. Upon his return thereafter from Rhodes, he occupied
for twelve years the Prince's family, now bereft of heirs, and nigh four-and-twenty ruled the
Roman State. His manners also varied with the several junctures of his fortune: he was well
esteemed while yet a private man; and, in discharging public dignities under Augustus, of signal
reputation: covert and subdolous in feigning virtue so long as Germanicus and Drusus survived:
a mixed character of good and evil during the days of his mother: detestably cruel; but secret
in his lewdness, while he loved or feared Sejanus: at last he abandoned himself, at once, to
the rage of tyranny and the sway of his lusts: for, he had then conquered all the checks of
shame and fear, and thenceforth followed only the bent of his own abominable spirit.

A TREATISE OF THE SITUATION, CUSTOMS, AND PEOPLE OF GERMANY.

The whole of Germany is thus bounded; separated from Gaul, from Rhoetia and Pannonia, by the
rivers Rhine and Danube; from Sarmatia and Dacia by mutual fear, or by high mountains: the
rest is encompassed by the ocean, which forms huge bays, and comprehends a tract of islands
immense in extent: for we have lately known certain nations and kingdoms there, such as the
war discovered. The Rhine rising in the Rhoetian Alps from a summit altogether rocky and perpendicular,
after a small winding towards the west, is lost in the Northern Ocean. The Danube issues out
of the mountain Abnoba, one very high but very easy of ascent, and traversing several nations,
falls by six streams into the Euxine Sea; for its seventh channel is absorbed in the Fenns.

