 SHERIDAN,

"GEO. L. HARTSUFF, "Assistant Adjutant-General."

The parish Boards of Registration were composed of three members each.  Ability to take what
was known as the "ironclad oath" was the qualification exacted of the members, and they were
prohibited from becoming candidates for office.  In the execution of their duties they were
to be governed by the provisions of the supplemental act. It was also made one of their functions
to designate the number and location of the polling-places in the several districts, to appoint
commissioners for receiving the votes and in general to attend to such other matters as were
necessary, in order properly to conduct the voting, and afterward to receive from the commissioners
the result of the vote and forward it to my headquarters. To this end the parishes were grouped
together conveniently in temporary districts, each officer having from three to five parishes
to supervise.  The programme thus mapped out for carrying out the law in Louisiana was likewise
adhered to in Texas, and indeed was followed as a model in some of the other military districts.

Although Military Commissions were fully authorized by the Reconstruction acts, yet I did not
favor their use in governing the district, and probably would never have convened one had these
acts been observed in good faith.  I much preferred that the civil courts, and the State and
municipal authorities already in existence, should perform their functions without military
control or interference, but occasionally, because the civil authorities neglected their duty,
I was obliged to resort to this means to ensure the punishment Of offenders.  At this time
the condition of the negroes in Texas and Louisiana was lamentable, though, in fact, not worse
than that of the few white loyalists who had been true to the Union during the war. These last
were singled out as special objects of attack, and were, therefore, obliged at all times to
be on the alert for the protection of their lives and property.  This was the natural outcome
of Mr. Johnson's defiance of Congress, coupled with the sudden conversion to his cause of persons
in the North--who but a short time before had been his bitterest enemies; for all this had
aroused among the disaffected element new hopes of power and place, hopes of being at once
put in political control again, with a resumption of their functions in State and National
matters without any preliminary authorization by Congress.  In fact, it was not only hoped,
but expected, that things were presently to go on just as if there had been no war.

In the State of Texas there were in 1865 about 200,000 of the colored race-roughly, a third
of the entire population--while in Louisiana there were not less than 350,000, or more than
one-half of all the people in the State.  Until the enactment of the Reconstruction laws these
negroes were without rights, and though they had been liberated by the war, Mr. Johnson's policy
now proposed that they should have no political status at all, and consequently be at the mercy
of a people who, recently their masters, now seemed to look upon them as the authors of all
the misfortunes that had come upon the land. Under these circumstances the blacks naturally
turned for protection to those who had been the means of their liberation, and it would have
been little less than inhuman to deny them sympathy.  Their freedom had been given them, and
it was the plain duty of those in authority to make it secure, and screen them from the bitter
political resentment that beset them, and to see that they had a fair chance in the battle
of life.  Therefore, when outrages and murders grew frequent, and the aid of the military power
was an absolute necessity for the protection of life, I employed it unhesitatingly --the guilty
parties being brought to trial before military commissions--and for a time, at least, there
occurred a halt in the march of terrorism inaugurated by the people whom Mr. Johnson had deluded.

The first, Military Commission was convened to try the case of John W. Walker, charged with
shooting a negro in the parish of St. John. The proper civil authorities had made no effort
to arrest Walker, and even connived at his escape, so I had him taken into custody in New Orleans,
and ordered him tried, the commission finding him guilty, and sentencing him to confinement
in the penitentiary for six months. This shooting was the third occurrence of the kind that
had taken place in St.  John's parish, a negro being wounded in each case, and it was plain
that the intention was to institute there a practice of intimidation which should be effective
to subject the freedmen to the will of their late masters, whether in making labor contracts,
or in case these newly enfranchised negroes should evince a disposition to avail themselves
of the privilege to vote.

The trial and conviction of Walker, and of one or two others for similar outrages, soon put
a stop to every kind of "bull-dozing" in the country parishes; but about this time I discovered
that many members of the police force in New Orleans were covertly intimidating the freedmen
there, and preventing their appearance at the registration offices, using milder methods than
had obtained in the country, it is true, but none the less effective.

Early in 1866 the Legislature had passed an act which created for the police of New Orleans
a residence qualification, the object of which was to discharge and exclude from the force
ex-Union soldiers.  This of course would make room for the appointment of ex-Confederates,
and Mayor Monroe had not been slow in enforcing the provisions of the law.  It was, in fact,
a result of this enactment that the police was so reorganized as to become the willing and
efficient tool which it proved to be in the riot of 1866; and having still the same personnel,
it was now in shape to prevent registration by threats, unwarranted arrests, and by various
other influences, all operating to keep the timid blacks away from the registration places.

That the police were taking a hand in this practice of repression, I first discovered by the
conduct of the assistant to the chief of the body, and at once removed the offender, but finding
this ineffectual I annulled that part of the State law fixing the five years' residence restriction,
and restored the two years' qualification, thus enabling Mayor Heath, who by my appointment
had succeeded Monroe, to organize the force anew, and take about one-half of its members from
ex-Union soldiers who when discharged had settled in New Orleans.  This action put an end to
intimidation in the parish of Orleans; and now were put in operation in all sections the processes
provided by the supplemental Reconstruction law for the summoning of a convention to form a
Constitution preparatory to the readmission of the State, and I was full of hope that there
would now be much less difficulty in administering the trust imposed by Congress.

During the two years previous great damage had been done the agricultural interests of Louisiana
by the overflow of the Mississippi, the levees being so badly broken as to require extensive
repairs, and the Legislature of 1866 had appropriated for the purpose $4,000,000, to be raised
by an issue of bonds.  This money was to be disbursed by a Board of Levee Commissioners then
in existence, but the term of service of these commissioners, and the law creating the board,
would expire in the spring of 1867.  In order to overcome this difficulty the Legislature passed
a bill continuing the commissioners in office but as the act was passed inside of ten days
before the adjournment of the Legislature, Governor Wells pocketed the bill, and it failed
to become a law.  The Governor then appointed a board of his own, without any warrant of law
whatever.  The old commissioners refused to recognize this new board, and of course a conflict
of authority ensued, which, it was clear, would lead to vicious results if allowed to continue;
so, as the people of the State had no confidence in either of the boards, I decided to end
the contention summarily by appointing an entirely new commission, which would disburse the
money honestly, and further the real purpose for which it had been appropriated.  When I took
this course the legislative board acquiesced, but Governor Wells immediately requested the
President to revoke my order, which, however, was not done, but meanwhile the Secretary of
War directed me to suspend all proceedings in the matter, and make a report of the facts. 
I complied in the following telegram:

"HEADQUARTERS FIFTH MILITARY DISTRICT, "NEW ORLEANS, La., June 3, 1867.

"SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your telegram of this date in reference
to the Levee Commissioners in this State.

"The following were my reasons for abolishing the two former boards, although I intended that
my order should be sufficiently explanatory:

"Previous to the adjournment of the Legislature last winter it passed an act continuing the
old Levee board in office, so that the four millions of dollars ($4,000,000) in bonds appropriated
by the Legislature might be disbursed by a board of rebellious antecedents.

"After its adjournment the Governor of the State appointed a board of his own, in violation
of this act, and made the acknowledgment to me in person that his object was to disburse the
money in the interest of his own party by securing for it the vote of the employees at the
time of election.

"The board continued in office by the Legislature refused to turn over to the Governor's board,
and each side appealed to me to sustain it, which I would not do.  The question must then have
gone to the courts, which, according to the Governor's judgment when he was appealing to me
to be sustained, would require one year for decision. Meantime the State was overflowed, the
Levee boards tied up by political chicanery, and nothing done to relieve the poor people, now
fed by the charity of the Government and charitable associations of the North.

"To obviate this trouble, and to secure to the overflowed districts of the State the immediate
relief which the honest disbursement of the four millions ($4,000,000) would give, my order
dissolving both boards was issued.

"I say now, unequivocally, that Governor Wells is a political trickster and a dishonest man.
I have seen him myself, when I first came to this command, turn out all the Union men who had
supported the Government, and put in their stead rebel soldiers who had not yet doffed their
gray uniform.  I have seen him again, during the July riot of 1866, skulk away where I could
not find him to give him a guard, instead of coming out as a manly representative of the State
and joining those who were preserving the peace.  I have watched him since, and his conduct
has been as sinuous as the mark left in the dust by the movement of a snake.

"I say again that he is dishonest, and that dishonesty is more than must be expected of me.

"P. H. SHERIDAN, "Major-General, U. S. A.

"Hon. E. M. STANTON, "Secretary of War, Washington, D. C."

The same day that I sent my report to the Secretary of War I removed from office Governor Wells
himself, being determined to bear no longer with the many obstructions he had placed in the
way of reorganizing the civil affairs of the State.  I was also satisfied that he was unfit
to retain the place, since he was availing himself of every opportunity to work political ends
beneficial to himself. In this instance Wells protested to me against his removal, and also
appealed to the President for an opinion of the Attorney-General as to my power in the case;
and doubtless he would have succeeded in retaining his office, but for the fact that the President
had been informed by General James B. Steadman and others placed to watch me that Wells was
wholly unworthy.

"NEW ORLEANS, June 19, 1867. "ANDREW JOHNSON, President United States, "Washington City:

"Lewis D.  Campbell leaves New Orleans for home this evening.  Want of respect for Governor
Wells personally, alone represses the expression of indignation felt by all honest and sensible
men at the unwarranted usurpation of General Sheridan in removing the civil officers of Louisiana.
It is believed here that you will reinstate Wells.  He is a bad man, and has no influence.

"I believe Sheridan made the removals to embarrass you, believing the feeling at the North
would sustain him.  My conviction is that on account of the bad character of Wells and Monroe,
you ought not to reinstate any who have been removed, because you cannot reinstate any without
reinstating all, but you ought to prohibit the exercise of this power in the future.

"Respectfully yours,

"JAMES B. STEADMAN."

I appointed Mr. Thomas J. Durant as Wells's successor, but he declining, I then appointed Mr.
Benjamin F. Flanders, who, after I had sent a staff-officer to forcibly eject Wells in case
of necessity, took possession of the Governor's office.  Wells having vacated, Governor Flanders
began immediately the exercise of his duties in sympathy with the views of Congress, and I
then notified General Grant that I thought he need have no further apprehension about the condition
of affairs in Louisiana, as my appointee was a man of such integrity and ability that I already
felt relieved of half my labor.  I also stated in the same despatch that nothing would answer
in Louisiana but a bold and firm course, and that in taking such a one I felt that I was strongly
supported; a statement that was then correct, for up to this period the better classes were
disposed to accept the Congressional plan of reconstruction.

During the controversy over the Levee Commissioners, and the correspondence regarding the removal
of Governor Wells, registration had gone on under the rules laid down for the boards.  The
date set for closing the books was the 3oth of June, but in the parish of Orleans the time
was extended till the 15th of July.  This the President considered too short a period, and
therefore directed the registry lists not to be closed before the 1st of August, unless there
was some good reason to the contrary.  This was plainly designed to keep the books open in
order that under the Attorney-General's interpretation of the Reconstruction laws, published
June 20, many persons who had been excluded by the registration boards could yet be registered,
so I decided to close the registration, unless required by the President unconditionally, and
in specific orders, to extend the time.  My motives were manifold, but the main reasons were
that as two and a half months had been given already, the number of persons who, under the
law, were qualified for registry was about exhausted; and because of the expense I did not
feel warranted in keeping up the boards longer, as I said, "to suit new issues coming in at
the eleventh hour," which would but open a "broad macadamized road for perjury and fraud."

