Could anything resist a man like this? John Perkins, who had come down as one of Scully's aides-de-camp,
in a fit of generous enthusiasm, leaped on a whist-table, flung up a pocket-handkerchief, and
shrieked--"SCULLY FOR EVER!"

Heeltap, who was generally drunk, fairly burst into tears, and the grave tradesmen and Whig
gentry, who had dined with the Member at his inn, and accompanied him thence to the "Gorgon
Arms," lifted their deep voices and shouted "Hear!" "Good!" "Bravo!" "Noble!" "Scully for ever!"
"God bless him!" and "Hurrah!"

The scene was tumultuously affecting; and when young Perkins sprang down from the table and
came blushing up to the Member, that gentleman said, "Thank you, Jack! THANK you, my boy! THANK
you," in a way which made Perkins think that his supreme cup of bliss was quaffed; that he
had but to die: for that life had no other such joy in store for him. Scully was Perkins's
Napoleon--he yielded himself up to the attorney, body and soul.

Whilst this scene was going on under one chandelier of the ballroom, beneath the other scarlet
little General Gorgon, sumptuous Lady Gorgon, the daughters and niece Gorgons, were standing
surrounded by their Tory court, who affected to sneer and titter at the Whig demonstrations
which were taking place.

"What a howwid thmell of whithkey!" lisped Cornet Fitch, of the Dragoons, to Miss Lucy, confidentially.
"And the--the are what they call Whigth, are they? He! he!"

"They are drunk, ----me, --drunk, by ----!" said the General to the Mayor.

"WHICH is Scully?" said Lady Gorgon, lifting her glass gravely (she was at that very moment
thinking of the syllabubs). "Is it that tipsy man in the green coat, or that vulgar creature
in the blue one?"

"Law, my Lady," said the Mayoress, "have you forgotten him? Why, that's him in blue and buff."

"And a monthous fine man, too," said Cornet Fitch. "I wish we had him in our twoop--he'th thix
feet thwee, if he'th an inch; ain't he, Genewal?"

No reply.

"And heavens! Mamma," shrieked the three Gorgons in a breath, "see, one creature is on the
whist-table. Oh, the wretch!

"I'm sure he's very good-looking," said Lucy, simply.

Lady Gorgon darted at her an angry look, and was about to say something very contemptuous,
when, at that instant, John Perkins's shout taking effect, Master George Augustus Frederick
Grimsby Gorgon, not knowing better, incontinently raised a small shout on his side.

"Hear! good! bravo!" exclaimed he; "Scully for ever! Hurra-a-a-ay!" and fell skipping about
like the Whigs opposite.

"Silence, you brute you!" groaned Lady Gorgon; and seizing him by the shirt-frill and coat-collar,
carried him away to his nurse, who, with many other maids of the Whig and Tory parties, stood
giggling and peeping at the landing-place.

Fancy how all these small incidents augmented the heap of Lady Gorgon's anger and injuries!
She was a dull phlegmatic woman for the most part, and contented herself generally with merely
despising her neighbours; but oh! what a fine active hatred raged in her bosom for victorious
Scully! At this moment Mr. Perkins had finished shaking hands with his Napoleon--Napoleon seemed
bent upon some tremendous enterprise. He was looking at Lady Gorgon very hard.

"She's a fine woman," said Scully, thoughtfully; he was still holding the hand of Perkins.
And then, after a pause, "Gad! I think I'll try."

"Try what, sir?"

"She's a DEUCED fine woman!" burst out again the tender solicitor. "I WILL go. Springer, tell
the fiddlers to strike up."

Springer scuttled across the room, and gave the leader of the band a knowing nod. Suddenly,
"God save the King" ceased, and "Sir Roger de Coverley" began. The rival forces eyed each other;
Mr. Scully, accompanied by his friend, came forward, looking very red, and fumbling two large
kid gloves.

"HE'S GOING TO ASK ME TO DANCE," hissed out Lady Gorgon, with a dreadful intuition, and she
drew back behind her lord.

"D---- it, madam, THEN DANCE with him!" said the General. "Don't you see that the scoundrel
is carrying it all his own way! ---- him! and ---- him! and ---- him!" (All of which dashes
the reader may fill up with oaths of such strength as may be requisite).

"General!" cried Lady Gorgon, but could say no more. Scully was before her.

"Madam!" exclaimed the Liberal Member for Oldborough, "in a moment like this--I say--that is--that
on the present occasion--your Ladyship--unaccustomed as I am--pooh, psha--WILL your Ladyship
give me the distinguished honour and pleasure of going down the country-dance with your Ladyship?"

An immense heave of her Ladyship's ample chest was perceptible. Yards of blond lace, which
might be compared to a foam of the sea, were agitated at the same moment, and by the same mighty
emotion. The river of diamonds which flowed round her Ladyship's neck, seemed to swell and
to shine more than ever. The tall plumes on her ambrosial head bowed down beneath the storm.
In other words, Lady Gorgon, in a furious rage, which she was compelled to restrain, trembled,
drew up, and bowing majestically, said,--

"Sir, I shall have much pleasure." With this, she extended her hand. Scully, trembling, thrust
forward one of his huge kid-gloves, and led her to the head of the country-dance. John Perkins--who
I presume had been drinking pretty freely, so as to have forgotten his ordinary bashfulness--looked
at the three Gorgons in blue, then at the pretty smiling one in white, and stepping up to her,
without the smallest hesitation, asked her if she would dance with him.

The young lady smilingly agreed. The great example of Scully and Lady Gorgon was followed by
all dancing men and women. Political enmities were forgotten. Whig voters invited Tory voters'
wives to the dance. The daughters of Reform accepted the hands of the sons of Conservatism.
The reconciliation of the Romans and Sabines was not more touching than this sweet fusion.
Whack--whack! Springer clapped his hands; and the fiddlers adroitly obeying the cheerful signal,
began playing "Sir Roger de Coverley" louder than ever.

I do not know by what extraordinary charm (nescio qua praeter solitum, etc.), but young Perkins,
who all his life had hated country-dances, was delighted with this one, and skipped and laughed,
poussetting, crossing, down-the-middling, with his merry little partner, till every one of
the bettermost sort of the thirty-nine couples had dropped panting away, and till the youngest
Miss Gorgon, coming up to his partner, said in a loud hissing scornful whisper, "Lucy, Mamma
thinks you have danced quite enough with this--this person." And Lucy, blushing, starting back,
and looking at Perkins in a very melancholy way, made him a little curtsey, and went off to
the Gorgonian party with her cousin. Perkins was too frightened to lead her back to her place--too
frightened at first, and then too angry. "Person!" said he: his soul swelled with a desperate
republicanism: he went back to his patron more of a Radical than ever.

He found that gentleman in the solitary tea-room, pacing up and down before the observant landlady
and handmaidens of the "Gorgon Arms," wiping his brows, gnawing his fingers--his ears looming
over his stiff white shirt-collar as red as fire. Once more the great man seized John Perkins's
hand as the latter came up.

"D---- the aristocrats!" roared the ex-follower of Squaretoes.

"And so say I! but what's the matter, sir?"

"What's the matter?--Why, that woman--that infernal, haughty, straitlaced, cold-blooded brewer's
daughter! I loved that woman, sir--I KISSED that woman, sir, twenty years ago: we were all
but engaged, sir: we've walked for hours and hours, sir--us and the governess--I've got a lock
of her hair, sir, among my papers now; and to-night, would you believe it?--as soon as she
got to the bottom of the set, away she went--not one word would she speak to me all the way
down: and when I wanted to lead her to her place, and asked her if she would have a glass of
negus, 'Sir,' says she, 'I have done my duty; I bear no malice: but I consider you a traitor
to Sir George Gorgon's family--a traitor and an upstart! I consider your speaking to me as
a piece of insolent vulgarity, and beg you will leave me to myself!' There's her speech, sir.
Twenty people heard it, and all of her Tory set too. I'll tell you what, Jack: at the next
election I'll put YOU up. Oh that woman! that woman!--and to think that I love her still!"
Here Mr. Scully paused, and fiercely consoled himself by swallowing three cups of Mrs. Rincer's
green tea.

The fact is, that Lady Gorgon's passion had completely got the better of her reason. Her Ladyship
was naturally cold, and artificially extremely squeamish; and when this great red-faced enemy
of hers looked tenderly at her through his red little eyes, and squeezed her hand and attempted
to renew old acquaintance, she felt such an intolerable disgust at his triumph, at his familiarity,
and at the remembrance of her own former liking for him, that she gave utterance to the speech
above correctly reported. The Tories were delighted with her spirit, and Cornet Fitch, with
much glee, told the story to the General; but that officer, who was at whist with some of his
friends, flung down his cards, and coming up to his lady, said briefly,--

"Madam, you are a fool!"

"I will NOT stay here to be bearded by that disgusting man!--Mr. Fitch, call my people.--Henrietta,
bring Miss Lucy from that linendraper with whom she is dancing. I will not stay, General, once
for all."

Henrietta ran--she hated her cousin: Cornet Fitch was departing. "Stop, Fitch," said Sir George,
seizing him by the arm. "You are a fool, Lady Gorgon," said he, "and I repeat it--a ---- fool!
This fellow Scully is carrying all before him: he has talked with everybody, laughed with everybody--and
you, with your infernal airs--a brewer's daughter, by ----, must sit like a queen and not speak
to a soul! You've lost me one seat of my borough, with your infernal pride--fifteen hundred
a year, by Jove!--and you think you will bully me out of another. No, madam, you SHALL stay,
and stay supper too;--and the girls shall dance with every cursed chimney-sweep and butcher
in the room: they shall--confound me!"

Her Ladyship saw that it was necessary to submit; and Mr. Springer, the master of the ceremonies,
was called, and requested to point out some eligible partners for the young ladies. One went
off with a Whig auctioneer; another figured in a quadrille with a very Liberal apothecary;
and the third, Miss Henrietta, remained.

"Hallo you, sir!" roared the little General to John Perkins, who was passing by. John turned
round and faced him.

"You were dancing with my niece just now--show us your skill now, and dance with one of my
daughters. Stand up, Miss Henrietta Gorgon--Mr. What's-your-name?"

"My name," said John, with marked and majestic emphasis, "is PERKINS." And he looked towards
Lucy, who dared not look again.

"Miss Gorgon--Mr. Perkins. There, now go and dance."

"Mr. Perkins regrets, madam," said John, making a bow to Miss Henrietta, "that he is not able
to dance this evening. I am this moment obliged to look to the supper; but you will find, no
doubt, some other PERSON who will have much pleasure."

"Go to ----, sir!" screamed the General, starting up, and shaking his cane.

"Calm yourself, dearest George," said Lady Gorgon, clinging fondly to him. Fitch twiddled his
moustaches. Miss Henrietta Gorgon stared with open mouth. The silks of the surrounding dowagers
rustled--the countenances of all looked grave.

"I will follow you, sir, wherever you please; and you may hear of me whenever you like," said
Mr. Perkins, bowing and retiring. He heard little Lucy sobbing in a corner. He was lost at
once--lost in love; he felt as if he could combat fifty generals! he never was so happy in
his life.

The supper came; but as that meal cost five shillings a head, General Gorgon dismissed the
four spinsters of his family homewards in the carriage, and so saved himself a pound. This
added to Jack Perkins's wrath; he had hoped to have seen Miss Lucy once more. He was a steward,
and, in the General's teeth, would have done his duty. He was thinking how he would have helped
her to the most delicate chicken-wings and blancmanges, how he WOULD have made her take champagne.
Under the noses of indignant aunt and uncle, what glorious fun it would have been!

Out of place as Mr. Scully's present was, and though Lady Gorgon and her party sneered at the
vulgar notion of venison and turtle for supper, all the world at Oldborough ate very greedily
of those two substantial dishes; and the Mayor's wife became from that day forth a mortal enemy
of the Gorgons: for, sitting near her Ladyship, who refused the proffered soup and meat, the
Mayoress thought herself obliged to follow this disagreeable example. She sent away the plate
of turtle with a sigh, saying, however, to the baronet's lady, "I thought, mem, that the LORD
MAYOR OF LONDON always had turtle to his supper?"

"And what if he didn't, Biddy?" said his Honour the Mayor; "a good thing's a good thing, and
here goes!" wherewith he plunged his spoon into the savoury mess. The Mayoress, as we have
said, dared not; but she hated Lady Gorgon, and remembered it at the next election.

The pride, in fact, and insolence of the Gorgon party rendered every person in the room hostile
to them; so soon as, gorged with meat, they began to find that courage which Britons invariably
derive from their victuals. The show of the Gorgon plate seemed to offend the people. The Gorgon
champagne was a long time, too, in making its appearance. Arrive, however, it did. The people
were waiting for it; the young ladies, not accustomed to that drink, declined pledging their
admirers until it was produced; the men, too, despised the bucellas and sherry, and were looking
continually towards the door. At last, Mr. Rincer, the landlord, Mr. Hock, Sir George's butler,
and sundry others entered the room. Bang! went the corks--fizz the foamy liquor sparkled into
all sorts of glasses that were held out for its reception. Mr. Hock helped Sir George and his
party, who drank with great gusto; the wine which was administered to the persons immediately
around Mr. Scully was likewise pronounced to be good. But Mr. Perkins, who had taken his seat
among the humbler individuals, and in the very middle of the table, observed that all these
persons, after drinking, made to each other very wry and ominous faces, and whispered much.
He tasted his wine: it was a villanous compound of sugar, vitriol, soda-water, and green gooseberries.
At this moment a great clatter of forks was made by the president's and vice-president's party.
Silence for a toast--'twas silence all.

"Landlord," said Mr. Perkins, starting up (the rogue, where did his impudence come from?) "have
you any champagne of YOUR OWN?"

"Silence! down!" roared the Tories, the ladies looking aghast. "Silence, sit down you!" shrieked
the well-known voice of the General.

"I beg your pardon, General," said young John Perkins; "but where COULD you have bought this
champagne? My worthy friend I know is going to propose the ladies; let us at any rate drink
such a toast in good wine." ("Hear, hear!") "Drink her Ladyship's health in THIS stuff? I declare
to goodness I would sooner drink it in beer!"

No pen can describe the uproar which arose: the anguish of the Gorgonites--the shrieks, jeers,
cheers, ironic cries of "Swipes!" etc., which proceeded from the less genteel but more enthusiastic
Scullyites.

"This vulgarity is too much," said Lady Gorgon, rising; and Mrs. Mayoress and the ladies of
the party did so too.

The General, two squires, the clergyman, the Gorgon apothecary and attorney, with their respective
ladies, followed her: they were plainly beaten from the field. Such of the Tories as dared
remained, and in inglorious compromise shared the jovial Whig feast.

"Gentlemen and ladies," hiccupped Mr. Heeltap, "I'll give you a toast. 'Champagne to our real--hic--friends,'
no, 'Real champagne to our friends,' and--hic--pooh! 'Champagne to our friends, and real pain
to our enemies,'--huzzay!"

The Scully faction on this day bore the victory away, and if the polite reader has been shocked
by certain vulgarities on the part of Mr. Scully and his friends, he must remember imprimis
that Oldborough was an inconsiderable place--that the inhabitants thereof were chiefly tradespeople,
not of refined habits--that Mr. Scully himself had only for three months mingled among the
aristocracy--that his young friend Perkins was violently angry--and finally, and to conclude,
that the proud vulgarity of the great Sir George Gorgon and his family was infinitely more
odious and contemptible than the mean vulgarity of the Scullyites and their leader.

Immediately after this event, Mr. Scully and his young friend Perkins returned to town; the
latter to his garrets in Bedford Row--the former to his apartments on the first floor of the
same house. He lived here to superintend his legal business: his London agents, Messrs. Higgs,
Biggs, and Blatherwick, occupying the ground floor; the junior partner, Mr. Gustavus Blatherwick,
the second flat of the house. Scully made no secret of his profession or residence: he was
an attorney, and proud of it; he was the grandson of a labourer, and thanked God for it; he
had made his fortune by his own honest labour, and why should he be ashamed of it?

And now, having explained at full length who the several heroes and heroines of this history
were, and how they conducted themselves in the country, let us describe their behaviour in
London, and the great events which occurred there.

You must know that Mr. Perkins bore away the tenderest recollections of the young lady with
whom he had danced at the Oldborough ball, and, having taken particular care to find out where
she dwelt when in the metropolis, managed soon to become acquainted with Aunt Biggs, and made
himself so amiable to that lady, that she begged he would pass all his disengaged evenings
at her lodgings in Caroline Place. Mrs. Biggs was perfectly aware that the young gentleman
did not come for her bohea and muffins, so much as for the sweeter conversation of her niece,
Miss Gorgon; but seeing that these two young people were of an age when ideas of love and marriage
will spring up, do what you will; seeing that her niece had a fortune, and Mr. Perkins had
the prospect of a place, and was moreover a very amiable and well-disposed young fellow, she
thought her niece could not do better than marry him; and Miss Gorgon thought so too. Now the
public will be able to understand the meaning of that important conversation which is recorded
at the very commencement of this history.

Lady Gorgon and her family were likewise in town; but, when in the metropolis, they never took
notice of their relative, Miss Lucy: the idea of acknowledging an ex-schoolmistress living
in Mecklenburgh Square being much too preposterous for a person of my Lady Gorgon's breeding
and fashion. She did not, therefore, know of the progress which sly Perkins was making all
this while; for Lucy Gorgon did not think it was at all necessary to inform her Ladyship how
deeply she was smitten by the wicked young gentleman who had made all the disturbance at the
Oldborough ball.

The intimacy of these young persons had, in fact, become so close, that on a certain sunshiny
Sunday in December, after having accompanied Aunt Biggs to church, they had pursued their walk
as far as that rendezvous of lovers, the Regent's Park, and were talking of their coming marriage,
with much confidential tenderness, before the bears in the Zoological Gardens.

Miss Lucy was ever and anon feeding those interesting animals with buns, to perform which act
of charity she had clambered up on the parapet which surrounds their den. Mr. Perkins was below;
and Miss Lucy, having distributed her buns, was on the point of following,--but whether from
timidity, or whether from a desire to do young Perkins an essential service, I know not: however,
she found herself quite unwilling to jump down unaided.

"My dearest John," said she, "I never can jump that."

Whereupon John stepped up, put one hand round Lucy's waist; and as one of hers gently fell
upon his shoulder, Mr. Perkins took the other and said,--

"Now jump."

Hoop! jump she did, and so excessively active and clever was Mr. John Perkins, that he jumped
Miss Lucy plump into the middle of a group formed of--

Lady Gorgon;

The Misses Gorgon;

Master George Augustus Frederick Grimsby Gorgon;

And a footman, poodle, and French governess: who had all been for two or three minutes listening
to the billings and cooings of these imprudent young lovers.

CHAPTER II.

SHOWS HOW THE PLOT BEGAN TO THICKEN IN OR ABOUT BEDFORD ROW.

"Miss Lucy!"

"Upon my word!"

"I'm hanged if it aren't Lucy! How do, Lucy?" uttered Lady, the Misses, and Master Gorgon in
a breath.

Lucy came forward, bending down her ambrosial curls, and blushing, as a modest young woman
should: for, in truth, the scrape was very awkward. And as for John Perkins, he made a start,
and then a step forwards, and then two backwards, and then began laying hands upon his black
satin stock--in short, the sun did not shine at that moment upon a man who looked so exquisitely
foolish.

"Miss Lucy Gorgon, is your aunt--is Mrs. Briggs here?" said Lady Gorgon, drawing herself up
with much state.

"Mrs. Biggs, Aunt?" said Lucy demurely.

"Biggs or Briggs, madam, it is not of the slightest consequence. I presume that persons in
my rank of life are not expected to know everybody's name in Magdeburg Square?" (Lady Gorgon
had a house in Baker Street, and a dismal house it was.) "NOT here," continued she, rightly
interpreting Lucy's silence, "NOT here?--and may I ask how long is it that young ladies have
been allowed to walk abroad without chaperons, and to--to take a part in such scenes as that
which we have just seen acted?"

To this question--and indeed it was rather difficult to answer--Miss Gorgon had no reply. There
were the six grey eyes of her cousins glowering at her; there was George Augustus Frederick
examining her with an air of extreme wonder, Mademoiselle the governess turning her looks demurely
away, and awful Lady Gorgon glancing fiercely at her in front. Not mentioning the footman and
poodle, what could a poor modest timid girl plead before such an inquisition, especially when
she was clearly guilty? Add to this, that as Lady Gorgon, that majestic woman, always remarkable
for her size and insolence of demeanour, had planted herself in the middle of the path, and
spoke at the extreme pitch of her voice, many persons walking in the neighbourhood had heard
her Ladyship's speech and stopped, and seemed disposed to await the rejoinder.

"For Heaven's sake, Aunt, don't draw a crowd around us," said Lucy, who, indeed, was glad of
the only escape that lay in her power. "I will tell you of the--of the circumstances of--of
my engagement with this gentleman--with Mr. Perkins," added she, in a softer tone--so soft
that the 'ERKINS was quite inaudible.

"A Mr. What? An engagement without consulting your guardians!" screamed her Ladyship. "This
must be looked to! Jerningham, call round my carriage. Mademoiselle, you will have the goodness
to walk home with Master Gorgon, and carry him, if you please, where there is wet; and, girls,
as the day is fine, you will do likewise. Jerningham, you will attend the young ladies. Miss
Gorgon, I will thank you to follow me immediately." And so saying, and looking at the crowd
with ineffable scorn, and at Mr. Perkins not at all, the lady bustled away forwards, the files
of Gorgon daughters and governess closing round and enveloping poor Lucy, who found herself
carried forward against her will, and in a minute seated in her aunt's coach, along with that
tremendous person.

Her case was bad enough, but what was it to Perkins's? Fancy his blank surprise and rage at
having his love thus suddenly ravished from him, and his delicious tete-a-tete interrupted.
He managed, in an inconceivably short space of time, to conjure up half-a-million obstacles
to his union. What should he do? he would rush on to Baker Street, and wait there until his
Lucy left Lady Gorgon's house.

He could find no vehicle in the Regent's Park, and was in consequence obliged to make his journey
on foot. Of course, he nearly killed himself with running, and ran so quick, that he was just
in time to see the two ladies step out of Lady Gorgon's carriage at her own house, and to hear
Jerningham's fellow-footman roar to the Gorgonian coachman, "Half-past seven!" at which hour
we are, to this day, convinced that Lady Gorgon was going out to dine. Mr. Jerningham's associate
having banged to the door, with an insolent look towards Perkins, who was prying in with the
most suspicious and indecent curiosity, retired, exclaiming, "That chap has a hi to our great-coats,
I reckon!" and left John Perkins to pace the street and be miserable.

John Perkins then walked resolutely up and down dismal Baker Street, determined on an eclaircissement.
He was for some time occupied in thinking how it was that the Gorgons were not at church, they
who made such a parade of piety; and John Perkins smiled as he passed the chapel, and saw that
two CHARITY SERMONS were to be preached that day--and therefore it was that General Gorgon
read prayers to his family at home in the morning.

Perkins, at last, saw that little General, in blue frock-coat and spotless buff gloves, saunter
scowling home; and half an hour before his arrival had witnessed the entrance of Jerningham,
and the three gaunt Miss Gorgons, poodle, son-and-heir, and French governess, protected by
him, into Sir George's mansion.

"Can she be going to stay all night?" mused poor John, after being on the watch for three hours:
when presently, to his inexpressible delight, he saw a very dirty hackney-coach clatter up
to the Gorgon door, out of which first issued the ruby plush breeches and stalwart calves of
Mr. Jerningham; these were followed by his body, and then the gentleman, ringing modestly,
was admitted.

Again the door opened: a lady came out, nor was she followed by the footman, who crossed his
legs at the door-post and allowed her to mount the jingling vehicle as best she might. Mr.
Jerningham had witnessed the scene in the Park Gardens, had listened to the altercation through
the library keyhole, and had been mighty sulky at being ordered to call a coach for this young
woman. He did not therefore deign to assist her to mount.

But there was ONE who did! Perkins was by the side of his Lucy: he had seen her start back
and cry, "La, John!"--had felt her squeeze his arm--had mounted with her into the coach, and
then shouted with a voice of thunder to the coachman, "Caroline Place, Mecklenburgh Square."

But Mr. Jerningham would have been much more surprised and puzzled if he had waited one minute
longer, and seen this Mr. Perkins, who had so gallantly escaladed the hackney-coach, step out
of it with the most mortified, miserable, chap-fallen countenance possible.

The fact is, he had found poor Lucy sobbing fit to break her heart, and instead of consoling
her, as he expected, he only seemed to irritate her further: for she said, "Mr. Perkins--I
beg--I insist, that you leave the carriage." And when Perkins made some movement (which, not
being in the vehicle at the time, we have never been able to comprehend), she suddenly sprang
from the back-seat and began pulling at a large piece of cord which communicated with the wrist
of the gentleman driving; and, screaming to him at the top of her voice, bade him immediately stop.

This Mr. Coachman did, with a curious, puzzled, grinning air.

Perkins descended, and on being asked, "Vere ham I to drive the young 'oman, sir?" I am sorry
to say muttered something like an oath, and uttered the above-mentioned words, "Caroline Place,
Mecklenburgh Square," in a tone which I should be inclined to describe as both dogged and sheepish--very
different from that cheery voice which he had used when he first gave the order.

Poor Lucy, in the course of those fatal three hours which had passed while Mr. Perkins was
pacing up and down Baker Street, had received a lecture which lasted exactly one hundred and
eighty minutes--from her aunt first, then from her uncle, whom we have seen marching homewards,
and often from both together.

Sir George Gorgon and his lady poured out such a flood of advice and abuse against the poor
girl, that she came away from the interview quite timid and cowering; and when she saw John
Perkins (the sly rogue! how well he thought he had managed the trick!) she shrank from him
as if he had been a demon of wickedness, ordered him out of the carriage, and went home by
herself, convinced that she had committed some tremendous sin.

While, then, her coach jingled away to Caroline Place, Perkins, once more alone, bent his steps
in the same direction. A desperate, heart-stricken man, he passed by the beloved's door, saw
lights in the front drawing-room, felt probably that she was there; but he could not go in.
Moodily he paced down Doughty Street, and turning abruptly into Bedford Row, rushed into his
own chambers, where Mrs. Snooks, the laundress, had prepared his humble Sabbath meal.

A cheerful fire blazed in his garret, and Mrs. Snooks had prepared for him the favourite blade-bone
he loved (blest four-days' dinner for a bachelor--roast, cold, hashed, grilled bladebone, the
fourth being better than the first); but although he usually did rejoice in this meal--ordinarily,
indeed, grumbling that there was not enough to satisfy him--he, on this occasion, after two
mouthfuls, flung down his knife and fork, and buried his two claws in his hair.

"Snooks," said he at last, very moodily, "remove this d---- mutton, give me my writing things,
and some hot brandy-and-water."

This was done without much alarm: for you must know that Perkins used to dabble in poetry,
and ordinarily prepare himself for composition by this kind of stimulus.

He wrote hastily a few lines.

"Snooks, put on your bonnet," said he, "and carry this--YOU KNOW WHERE!" he added, in a hollow,
heart-breaking tone of voice, that affected poor Snooks almost to tears. She went, however,
with the note, which was to this purpose:--

"Lucy! Lucy! my soul's love--what, what has happened? I am writing this"--(a gulp of brandy-and-water)--"in
a state bordering on distraction--madness--insanity" (another). "Why did you send me out of
the coach in that cruel cruel way? Write to me a word, a line--tell me, tell me, I may come
to you--and leave me not in this agonising condition; your faithful" (glog--glog--glog--the
whole glass)--"J.P."

He never signed John Perkins in full--he couldn't, it was so unromantic.

Well, this missive was despatched by Mrs. Snooks, and Perkins, in a fearful state of excitement,
haggard, wild, and with more brandy-and-water, awaited the return of his messenger.

When at length, after about an absence of forty years, as it seemed to him, the old lady returned
with a large packet, Perkins seized it with a trembling hand, and was yet more frightened to
see the handwriting of Mrs. or Miss Biggs.

"MY DEAR MR. PERKINS," she began--"Although I am not your soul's adored, I performed her part
for once, since I have read your letter, as I told her. You need not be very much alarmed,
although Lucy is at this moment in bed and unwell: for the poor girl has had a sad scene at
her grand uncle's house in Baker Street, and came home very much affected. Rest, however, will
restore her, for she is not one of your nervous sort; and I hope when you come in the morning,
you will see her as blooming as she was when you went out to-day on that unlucky walk.

"See what Sir George Gorgon says of us all! You won't challenge him, I know, as he is to be
your uncle, and so I may show you his letter.

"Good-night, my dear John. Do not go QUITE distracted before morning;
and believe me your loving aunt,
                                           "JEMIMA BIGGS."

                                "41 BAKER STREET:  11th December.

"MAJOR-GENERAL SIR GEORGE GORGON has heard with the utmost disgust and surprise of the engagement
which Miss Lucy Gorgon has thought fit to form.

"The Major-General cannot conceal his indignation at the share which Miss Biggs has taken in
this disgraceful transaction.

"Sir George Gorgon puts an absolute veto upon all further communication between his niece and
the low-born adventurer who has been admitted into her society, and begs to say that Lieutenant
Fitch, of the Lifeguards, is the gentleman who he intends shall marry Miss Gorgon.

"It is the Major-General's wish, that on the 28th Miss Gorgon should be ready to come to his
house, in Baker Street, where she will be more safe from impertinent intrusions than she has
been in Mucklebury Square.

       "MRS. BIGGS,
          "Caroline Place,
              "Mecklenburgh Square."

When poor John Perkins read this epistle, blank rage and wonder filled his soul, at the audacity
of the little General, who thus, without the smallest title in the world, pretended to dispose
of the hand and fortune of his niece. The fact is, that Sir George had such a transcendent
notion of his own dignity and station, that it never for a moment entered his head that his
niece, or anybody else connected with him, should take a single step in life without previously
receiving his orders; and Mr. Fitch, a baronet's son, having expressed an admiration of Lucy,
Sir George had determined that his suit should be accepted, and really considered Lucy's preference
of another as downright treason.

John Perkins determined on the death of Fitch as the very least reparation that should satisfy
him; and vowed too that some of the General's blood should be shed for the words which he had
dared to utter.

We have said that William Pitt Scully, Esquire, M.P., occupied the first floor of Mr. Perkins's
house in Bedford Row: and the reader is further to be informed that an immense friendship had
sprung up between these two gentlemen. The fact is, that poor John was very much flattered
by Scully's notice, and began in a very short time to fancy himself a political personage;
for he had made several of Scully's speeches, written more than one letter from him to his
constituents, and, in a word, acted as his gratis clerk. At least a guinea a week did Mr. Perkins
save to the pockets of Mr. Scully, and with hearty good will too, for he adored the great William
Pitt, and believed every word that dropped from the pompous lips of that gentleman.

Well, after having discussed Sir George Gorgon's letter, poor Perkins, in the utmost fury of
mind that his darling should be slandered so, feeling a desire for fresh air, determined to
descend to the garden and smoke a cigar in that rural quiet spot. The night was very calm.
The moonbeams slept softly upon the herbage of Gray's Inn gardens, and bathed with silver splendour
Theobald's Row. A million of little frisky twinkling stars attended their queen, who looked
with bland round face upon their gambols, as they peeped in and out from the azure heavens.
Along Gray's Inn wall a lazy row of cabs stood listlessly, for who would call a cab on such
a night? Meanwhile their drivers, at the alehouse near, smoked the short pipe or quaffed the
foaming beer. Perhaps from Gray's Inn Lane some broken sounds of Irish revelry might rise.
Issuing perhaps from Raymond Buildings gate, six lawyers' clerks might whoop a tipsy song--or
the loud watchman yell the passing hour; but beyond this all was silence; and young Perkins,
as he sat in the summerhouse at the bottom of the garden, and contemplated the peaceful heaven,
felt some influences of it entering into his soul, and almost forgetting revenge, thought but
of peace and love.

Presently, he was aware there was someone else pacing the garden. Who could it be?--Not Blatherwick,
for he passed the Sabbath with his grandmamma at Clapham; not Scully surely, for he always
went to Bethesda Chapel, and to a select prayer-meeting afterwards. Alas! it WAS Scully; for
though that gentleman SAID that he went to chapel, we have it for a fact that he did not always
keep his promise, and was at this moment employed in rehearsing an extempore speech, which
he proposed to deliver at St. Stephen's.

"Had I, sir," spouted he, with folded arms, slowly pacing to and fro--"Had I, sir, entertained
the smallest possible intention of addressing the House on the present occasion--hum, on the
present occasion--I would have endeavoured to prepare myself in a way that should have at least
shown my sense of the greatness of the subject before the House's consideration, and the nature
of the distinguished audience I have the honour to address. I am, sir, a plain man--born of
the people--myself one of the people, having won, thank Heaven, an honourable fortune and position
by my own honest labour; and standing here as I do--"

                    *          *          *

Here Mr. Scully (it may be said that he never made a speech without bragging about himself:
and an excellent plan it is, for people cannot help believing you at last)--here, I say, Mr.
Scully, who had one arm raised, felt himself suddenly tipped on the shoulder, and heard a voice
saying, "Your money or your life!"

The honourable gentleman twirled round as if he had been shot; the papers on which a great
part of this impromptu was written dropped from his lifted hand, and some of them were actually
borne on the air into neighbouring gardens. The man was, in fact, in the direst fright.

"It's only I," said Perkins, with rather a forced laugh, when he saw the effect that his wit
had produced.

"Only you! And pray what the dev--what right have you to--to come upon a man of my rank in
that way, and disturb me in the midst of very important meditations?" asked Mr. Scully, beginning
to grow fierce.

"I want your advice," said Perkins, "on a matter of the very greatest importance to me. You
know my idea of marrying?"

"Marry!" said Scully; "I thought you had given up that silly scheme. And how, pray, do you
intend to live?"

"Why, my intended has a couple of hundreds a year, and my clerkship in the Tape and Sealing-Wax
Office will be as much more."

"Clerkship--Tape and Sealing-Wax Office--Government sinecure!--Why, good heavens! John Perkins,
you don't tell ME that you are going to accept any such thing?"

