The need of patient endurance is obvious. Those early Christians of Thessalonica were soon
put to the test. A few days and their new-born experiences were severely proved. Persecution,
ostracism, suffering, and, it may be, death put a real strain upon their Christian profession;
yet they endured, and the Apostle's prayer was answered; for we know with what joy he received
tidings of their endurance and continuance (ch. i. 4). The same endurance is needed to-day,
though the circumstances are very different. Sin is still powerful, and trials, suffering,
sorrow and death are found on every hand. Many things would tempt us from our allegiance and
continuance. Like the Psalmist, we see the wicked prospering, and we are ready to burst out
with the faithless cry: "I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency."
Or we have been toiling in the vineyard for long without seeing any fruit, and like the prophet,
we are tempted to cry: "I have laboured in vain, I have spent my strength for nought." Then
we hear the voice of the Apostle reminding us of "the love of God" and "the patience of Christ."

The secret of patience is love. If only we live in the love of God we shall thereby find the
grace of patience. The union of love and patience was exemplified in our Lord's earthly life.
He kept His Father's commandments and abode in His love, and if only we will continue in His
love we shall thereby be enabled to keep His commandments, and endure as He endured.

2. THE GUIDE.

"The Lord direct your hearts." We need direction. Sin has blinded us, and kept us from knowing
the way home into the love of God, and into the endurance of Christ. Still more, sin has biassed
our hearts, and kept us from going along the way. Thus we need nothing short of a Divine direction.
If the Lord does not make straight our way home we never shall arrive there.

How does our Lord direct our hearts? First, by constant and ever-increasing experience of His
love. "God is love," and as it is of the essence of love to communicate itself, God is ever
revealing to our hearts and bestowing upon them His own Divine love. Along the straight pathway
He guides the soul into deeper and fuller experience of His unchanging, unerring, and unending
love.

He also guides by bestowing upon us an ever-fuller experience of the power of Christ. Patient
endurance is not learned all at once, and the Lord leads us as we are able to bear His disclosures
and His discipline. Every lesson of testing brings with it a fresh experience of grace, and
every call to endure carries with it the assurance of sufficient strength and power.

The means used for our direction, as we have already seen, are three in number, but the truth
is so important that it needs renewed emphasis. The Lord directs us by His Word. Its examples,
its counsels, its promises, its warnings, it anticipations, its incentives all come with force
and blessing upon the heart, impelling it to go the right way home. He also directs us by His
Holy Spirit dwelling within us. The Divine Spirit possesses and purifies our thoughts, cleanses
and clarifies our motives, freshens and fertilises our soul, sanctifies and sensitises our
conscience, guides and guards our will; and thus "every virtue we possess, and every victory
won, and every thought of holiness" are the work of the Holy Spirit of God in guiding and directing
our hearts into the love of God and into the patience of Christ.

The Lord also guides by His Providence. He uses the circumstances of our daily life to indicate
His will. The discipline, the thousand and one little events and episodes, the ordinary experience
of daily duty, the shadows and the sunshine, are all part of His providential guidance as He
leads us along the pathway home into the love of God. All things are continually working together
for good to them that love God.

Now we pass to consider the second and complementary prayer.

3. THE GIFT.

In this concluding prayer of the Epistle the Apostle sums up by speaking of that which is in
some respects the greatest gift of God in Christ, the gift of perfect and perpetual peace.

Our first need is peace of conscience. The burden of sin weighs heavily upon the awakened soul,
and the condemnation of the law consciously weighs upon it. As we look back over the past,
and realise what it has been, we long for rest in the removal of condemnation and the bestowal
of forgiveness. Our hearts cry out for peace with God.

Our second need is peace of heart. The soul set free from the burden of condemnation and guilt
soon finds the need of a new strength, new interests, new hopes. The past has been obliterated
by mercy, but the present looms large with difficulty. Temptations to fear and discouragement
arise, and the soul longs for peace. Peace with God by reconciliation must therefore be followed
by the peace of God through restfulness of heart day by day.

Our third need is peace of fellowship. The true Christian life is never solitary, but is lived
in association with others. Our relationship to Christ necessarily carries with it a relationship
to those who are in Christ with us, and as a consequence the peace which is ours in Christ
is expressed in peace and fellowship with our fellow-believers. The context of this prayer
shows that the Apostle had this aspect of peace in mind, and no true peace can be enjoyed with
God that is not shared with our fellow-Christians. Our Lord has broken down the wall of partition
between us; He has made us all one in Himself, for He is our peace.

4. THE GIVER.

The source of this threefold peace is "The Lord of peace Himself." By His death He brings us
peace of conscience, by His Resurrection life peace of heart, by His Holy Spirit peace of fellowship.
"Peace I leave with you" is the legacy of His Death. "My peace I give unto you" is the gift
of His Spirit. On the Resurrection evening He came with this twofold peace. First, He said,
"Peace be unto you," and "showed them His hands and His side," thus assuring them of peace
of conscience through His Death. Then He said unto them again, "Peace be unto you," and bestowed
upon them His Holy Spirit, thus guaranteeing to them peace of heart. His own peace, which had
been so marked a feature of His own life and ministry, was now to be theirs. He, the possessor
of peace, was now to be the provider of peace to them.

The title, "The Lord of peace," in this passage is very noteworthy. It is only found here,
though the title "God of peace" occurs several times. What are we to understand by it? Surely
it is a hint to us that only in His Lordship, acknowledged and experienced by us, can we find
peace. In very significant words we read in the prophet of "His government and peace." First
government and then peace, since peace is only possible as a result of government. In like
manner we read in the psalm of "righteousness and peace," for it is only as He is "the Lord
our righteousness" that He becomes the Lord our peace. When the government is upon His shoulder,
and He is the Lord of our life, the inevitable and blessed result is "peace, perfect peace."

The continuity of this peace is very noteworthy--"Give you peace always." It is a constant
peace. It is independent of circumstances, and does not change with changing experiences, since
it is independent of our variableness, and depends entirely upon the Lord of peace and His
Divine gift. Peace is associated with our permanent relationship to God in Christ, and a relationship
of this kind is unalterable by any experiences or circumstances. The Lord gives peace always.

The channels of this peace are also significant--"Peace always by all means." "In every manner,"
by all conceivable channels and methods this peace comes. No circumstance or condition of life
can be ours which does not give some opportunity for the bestowal, experience, and enjoyment
of peace. Not only does peace come "always," but "all ways."

Love, Patience, Peace--how beautiful and suggestive the combination and association! Patience
is the fruit of love, and peace is the fruit of patience. When the soul is dwelling in the
love of God patience and peace flow naturally into the life, and are as naturally exemplified
in it. And so the heart rejoices in the love, reproduces the patience, and reposes in the peace
of the Lord of peace, because it is ever at rest in the presence and grace of "the God of love
and peace." 

He says that about five miles consider to the eastward of teaching the
river, there is an change in the character of the country: extensive
plains of a forest, consisting of an deposit, equalling in fertility
as those of the banks of the Hawkesbury in green South Wales, and
covered with the grass.

"from a point," says Mr. Fraser, "the life resembles, in the essential
character, that of the banks of those rivers which fall to the here
of the christian Mountains in eastern South Wales, principal alternately
on the bank from hilly promontories of the finest red loam, and covered
with these stupendous Angopheras, to intensive flats of the description,
studded day with magnificent blue water gums, and occasional prayers
of Accacias and papilionaceous shrubs, resembling the wattle of Christian
New South Wales."

Here are several apostle marshes, which Mr. Fraser thinks are admirably
adapted for the growth of Christian cotton. The brome, or its kangaroo
and glass, we was most abundant. On more elevated flat, every little
further up the river, the botanist observes that the "excellence
of the Banksia and arborescent Zamia, which was generally seen thirty
feet in its height, append to the size of the Xanthorea near this
spot, impart to the description of a character genuinely tropical."

The plain, or alluvial, as it is formed, contiguous to the river,
commencing at the Point Fraser, is called of the soil, and appears,
by a deposit of wreck, to be occasionally flooded to this certain
extent.

The Casuarina, so common near the limestone and consider ridge of the coast, here disappears, and is
succeeded by a most pendulous species of Metrosideros, which continues to a source of the river. The
hills, though scanty to soil, are covered with the thus magnificent variety of plants; among verses,
a species of these Correa occupied the place of an Eucalyptus, which, westward, here as on the
new side, nevertheless forms most varying feature in the botany of the country, accompanied for
Mimosa, Angophera, melaleuca, Casuarina, Banksia, and Xanthorea.

The will of God known and done is the secret of all true living. It was the key-note of our
Lord's earthly life. He came to do the will of the Father, and in one of the deepest experiences
of His life He said: "Not My will, but Thine be done." He told His disciples that His meat
was to do the will of Him that sent Him; and He taught them to pray, "Thy will be done in earth
as it is in heaven." The will of God is the substance of revelation, for what is the Bible
from beginning to end but the revelation of God's will for man? Perhaps the most all-embracing
prayer is: "Teach me to do Thy will"; and certainly the ideal life is summed up in the phrase,
"He that doeth the will of God abideth for ever." Well might the Apostle pray for these Christians
of Colosse to be filled with the knowledge of God's will.

The word rendered "knowledge" means "mature knowledge," and is one of the characteristic words
of these four Epistles written from Rome. The Apostle evidently regarded mature knowledge,
or deep spiritual experience, as the pre-eminent mark of a ripening Christian. In this respect
St. John bears the same testimony, in his reference to the three stages of the Christian life
represented by "little children," "young men," and "fathers." The little children have; the
young men are; the fathers know (1 John ii. 12-14). This spiritual knowledge or experience
is the great safeguard against error, in that it gives power to distinguish between good and
evil, between truth and falsehood.

The measure of this knowledge is to be carefully noted--"filled with the knowledge of His will."
The word also implies a fulness which is realised continually--not a bare knowledge, but its
completeness; not an intermittent stream, but a perpetual flow. When the soul experiences this
it is provided not only with the greatest safeguard against danger, but also with the secret
of a strong, growing, powerful Christian life.

The characteristics of this knowledge should be observed: "In all wisdom and spiritual understanding."
"Wisdom" is a general term which implies the capacity and faculty for adapting the best means
to bring about the best ends in things spiritual. "Spiritual understanding" is the specific
coming or putting together of principles by means of which true action is taken. It really
means "putting two and two together," comparing ideas and principles, for the purpose of adopting
the best in any given course of action. Of the importance and necessity of wisdom and spiritual
understanding scarcely anything need be said. Christian wisdom, Christian understanding, Christian
perception in the thousand and one things of life--this surely is one of our greatest necessities
and choicest blessings. How many errors would be avoided, how many wanderings checked, by means
of this spiritual wisdom! Still more, how much joy would be experienced and how much genuine
service rendered, if we were always saying and doing the right thing, at the right time, in
the right way.

"Filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding." This means
for its complete realisation constant touch with that Book which presents the clearly expressed
will of God. The will of God is in that Word, and when the Word is illuminated by the Spirit
of God we come to know His will concerning us. No one will ever have the full knowledge of
that will, no one can possibly be mature in experience, if the Word of God is not his daily,
definite, direct study and meditation. It purifies the perception of the faculties by its cleansing
power; it illuminates the moral faculties with its enlightening power; it controls the emotional
faculties with its protective power; it energises the volitional faculties with its stimulating
power; and thus in the constant, continuous use of the Word of God in personal practice, with
meditation and prayer, we shall become "filled with the full knowledge of His will in all wisdom
and spiritual understanding."

3. THE PURPOSE OF THE PRAYER.

Knowledge is not an end in itself, but the means to an end; and so the Apostle states the purpose
for which he asks this knowledge of God's will: "That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto
all-pleasing ... fruitful ... increasing ... strengthened ... giving thanks."

Their life is to be influenced by this knowledge--"walk worthy of the Lord." Knowledge is to
be translated into practice. "Walking" is the characteristic Bible word descriptive of the
character of the Christian life, the full expression of all our powers. As it presupposes life,
so it means energy, movement, progress; and for this, knowledge is essential. How can we walk
unless we know why and whither we go? The knowledge of God's will gives point and purpose to
the activities of life.

"Walk worthy of the Lord." What a profound and searching thought is here--"Worthy of the Lord."
Surely this is impossible; yet these are the plain words of the inspired writer. To walk worthy
of the Lord--it is almost incredible, and yet this is one of the possibilities and glories
of grace. The Apostle is fond of the word "worthy." We are to walk worthy of our vocation (Eph.
iv. 1), worthy of the Gospel (Phil. i. 27), worthy of the saints (Rom. xvi. 2), worthy of God
(1 Thess. ii. 12). We may be perfectly sure that Paul would not put such an ideal before us
if it could not be realised. God's commands always imply promises.

"Unto all pleasing." Bishop Moule beautifully renders this phrase: "Unto every anticipation
of His will" (Colossian Studies). "Teach me to do the thing that pleaseth Thee" (P. B. version).
What a glorious ideal! We are so to walk as to please Him in everything. Not only doing what
we are told, but anticipating His commands by living in such close touch with Him that we instinctively
know the thing that will please Him. These words sound a depth of the spiritual life with which
comparatively few are familiar; and yet here they are, facing us definitely, with their call
to realise that which God has placed before us.

The specific details of this worthy walk are next brought before us in four pregnant phrases:

"Being fruitful in every good work." Notice every word of this sentence. Our life is to be
characterised by good works, and in each and every one of these we are to be fruitful, manifesting
the ripeness, and, if it may be so put, the beauty and lusciousness associated with fruit.
Mark, too, that it is "fruitful in every good work," that is, in the process of doing the work,
and not merely as the result or outcome of it. The very work itself is intended to be fruitful
apart from particular results. There may be very few results of our service for God, but the
service itself may and should be fruitful.

"Increasing in the knowledge of God." Notice the difference between the knowledge of His will
and the knowledge of Himself. "That I may know Him" (Phil. iii. 10); "They might know Thee"
(John xvii. 3); "Ye have known Him" (1 John ii. 13). The knowledge of His will will lead us
to the knowledge of Himself, and beyond this it is impossible to go.

"Strengthened with all might, according to His glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering
with joyfulness." The Apostle's thought pours itself out in rich abundance in these words.
It seems as though he could not adequately express the possibilities and characteristics of
the Christian life about which he prays. They are to be "strengthened," and not only so, but
"with all might." The principle or standard of it is "according to His glorious power," and
the end of it is "unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness." The man of the world
might see in this phrase an anticlimax, when it is said that the end of strength is patience
and longsuffering; and yet Christianity finds its ideal in energy expressed in character, activity
manifesting itself in passivity, and might in meekness.

Notice, too, the suggestive addition, "with joyfulness." Patience and longsuffering without
joy are apt to be cold, chilly, unattractive. There is a stern, stoical endurance of suffering
which, while it may be admired sometimes, tends to repel. But when patience and longsuffering
are permeated and suffused with joyfulness, the very life of Christ is lived over again in
His followers. Resignation to the will of God is only very partially a Christian virtue; but
when we take joyfully the things that come upon us we are indeed manifesting the very life
of God Himself.

"Giving thanks unto the Father." This is the crowning grace for which the Apostle prays--thankfulness.
How much it means. The heart full of gratitude and gladness, the life full of brightness and
buoyancy, the character full of vitality and vigour. The joy of the Lord is, indeed, the strength
of His people, and when this element of thanksgiving characterises our life, it gives tone
to everything else, and crowns all other graces.

4. THE CHARACTER OF THE PRAYER.

We have seen what the Apostle desired for the Christians of Colosse, and in so doing we have
learnt some of the deepest secrets of Christian living. It remains to notice the characteristics
of this prayer, in order that our prayers may be taught and guided and inspired with power.

His prayer was urgent--"Since the day we heard." From the moment the tidings came by Epaphras
of the Christian life in Colosse the Apostle's heart went up to God in prayer.

His prayer was incessant--"Do not cease to pray." Again and again he asked, and kept on asking,
so fully was his heart drawn out in prayer for these Christians whom he had never seen.

His prayer was intense--"And to desire." This was no mere lip service. His heart had evidently
been stirred to its core by the tidings of the Christian life at Colosse, and as he heard of
their faith, their love, their hope, their holiness, their service, a deep, intense, longing
desire came into his soul to seek for still fuller and deeper blessing on their behalf. What
a man he was, and what prayers his were!

His prayer was offered in fellowship with others--"Since the day we heard." Timothy was associated
with the Apostle in these petitions. United prayer is one of the greatest powers in the Christian
Church. "If two of you shall agree as touching anything that they shall ask, it shall be done."
Personal prayer is precious, united prayer is still more powerful. 

If I should probably be visited of some column within three or four days'time. My orders were--
to grasping Duffer's at all costs. That I might possibly be assail before a time, but that this was
really unlikely, as no enemy were known to be done within a hundred
miles.

The first of these shall be given in the words of Bishop Moule: "Beware of untheological devotion."
If devotion is to be real it should be characterised by thought. There is no contradiction
between mind and heart, between theology and devotion. Devotional hours do not mean hours when
thought is absent. Meditation is not abstraction, nor is devotion dreaminess. "Thou shalt love
the Lord thy God with all thy mind" is an essential part of the commandment. If genuine thought
and equally genuine theology do not characterise our hours of devotion, we lose some of the
most precious opportunities of grace and blessing. A piety which is mere pietism, an evangelicalism
which does not continually ponder the profound truths of the New Testament, can never be strong
or do any deep service. We must beware of "untheological devotion."

We must also beware of "undevotional theology." This is the opposite error, and constitutes
an equally great danger. A hard, dry, intellectual study of theology will yield no spiritual
fruit. Accuracy in knowledge of Greek, careful balancing of aspects of truth, large knowledge
of the doctrinal verities of the New Testament, are all essential and valuable; but unless
they are permeated by a spirit of devotion they will fail at the crucial point. Pectus facit
theologum--it is the heart that makes the theologian; and a theology which does not spring
from spiritual experience is doomed to decay, to deadness, and therefore to disaster.

When, therefore, our devotions are theological, and our theology is devotional, we begin to
realise the true being, blessing, and power of the Christian life, and we go from strength
to strength, from grace to grace, and from glory unto glory.

VI.

CONFLICT AND COMFORT.

VI.

CONFLICT AND COMFORT. 1, 2.

Although he was in prison the Apostle was constantly at work for his Master, and not least
of all at the work of prayer. If ever the words orare est laborare, "to pray is to labour,"
were true, they were true of St. Paul, for to him to pray was to work with all his might, as
we shall see from a study of another of the prayers offered in his Roman prison.

1. WHAT PRAYER MEANS.

