Up and up into the mountains. We started early, taking our way along a narrow interminable
valley that sloped up gradually toward the east. The road was encumbered with a stream of hooded
supply vans drawn by mules, for we were on the way to one of the main positions in the Vosges,
and this train of provisions is kept up day and night. Finally we reached a mountain village
under fir-clad slopes, with a cold stream rushing down from the hills. On one side of the road
was a rustic inn, on the other, among the firs, a chalet occupied by the brigade Head-quarters.
Everywhere about us swarmed the little "chasseurs Alpins" in blue Tam o'Shanters and leather
gaiters. For a year we had been reading of these heroes of the hills, and here we were among
them, looking into their thin weather-beaten faces and meeting the twinkle of their friendly
eyes. Very friendly they all were, and yet, for Frenchmen, inarticulate and shy. All over the
world, no doubt, the mountain silences breed this kind of reserve, this shrinking from the
glibness of the valleys. Yet one had fancied that French fluency must soar as high as Mont Blanc.

Mules were brought, and we started on a long ride up the mountain. The way led first over open
ledges, with deep views into valleys blue with distance, then through miles of forest, first
of beech and fir, and finally all of fir. Above the road the wooded slopes rose interminably
and here and there we came on tiers of mules, three or four hundred together, stabled under
the trees, in stalls dug out of different levels of the slope. Near by were shelters for the
men, and perhaps at the next bend a village of "trappers' huts," as the officers call the log-cabins
they build in this region. These colonies are always bustling with life: men busy cleaning
their arms, hauling material for new cabins, washing or mending their clothes, or carrying
down the mountain from the camp-kitchen the two-handled pails full of steaming soup. The kitchen
is always in the most protected quarter of the camp, and generally at some distance in the
rear. Other soldiers, their job over, are lolling about in groups, smoking, gossiping or writing
home, the "Soldiers' Letter-pad" propped on a patched blue knee, a scarred fist laboriously
driving the fountain pen received in hospital. Some are leaning over the shoulder of a pal
who has just received a Paris paper, others chuckling together at the jokes of their own French
journal--the "Echo du Ravin," the "Journal des Poilus," or the "Diable Bleu": little papers
ground out in purplish script on foolscap, and adorned with comic-sketches and a wealth of
local humour.

Higher up, under a fir-belt, at the edge of a meadow, the officer who rode ahead signed to
us to dismount and scramble after him. We plunged under the trees, into what seemed a thicker
thicket, and found it to be a thatch of branches woven to screen the muzzles of a battery.
The big guns were all about us, crouched in these sylvan lairs like wild beasts waiting to
spring; and near each gun hovered its attendant gunner, proud, possessive, important as a bridegroom
with his bride.

We climbed and climbed again, reaching at last a sun-and-wind-burnt common which forms the
top of one of the highest mountains in the region. The forest was left below us and only a
belt of dwarf firs ran along the edge of the great grassy shoulder. We dismounted, the mules
were tethered among the trees, and our guide led us to an insignificant looking stone in the
grass. On one face of the stone was cut the letter F., on the other was a D.; we stood on what,
till a year ago, was the boundary line between Republic and Empire. Since then, in certain
places, the line has been bent back a long way; but where we stood we were still under German
guns, and we had to creep along in the shelter of the squat firs to reach the outlook on the
edge of the plateau. From there, under a sky of racing clouds, we saw outstretched below us
the Promised Land of Alsace. On one horizon, far off in the plain, gleamed the roofs and spires
of Colmar, on the other rose the purplish heights beyond the Rhine. Near by stood a ring of
bare hills, those closest to us scarred by ridges of upheaved earth, as if giant moles had
been zigzagging over them; and just under us, in a little green valley, lay the roofs of a
peaceful village. The earth-ridges and the peaceful village were still German; but the French
positions went down the mountain, almost to the valley's edge; and one dark peak on the right
was already French.

We stopped at a gap in the firs and walked to the brink of the plateau. Just under us lay a
rock-rimmed lake. More zig-zag earthworks surmounted it on all sides, and on the nearest shore
was the branched roofing of another great mule-shelter. We were looking down at the spot to
which the night-caravans of the Chasseurs Alpins descend to distribute supplies to the fighting
line.

"Who goes there? Attention! You're in sight of the lines!" a voice called out from the firs,
and our companion signed to us to move back. We had been rather too conspicuously facing the
German batteries on the opposite slope, and our presence might have drawn their fire on an
artillery observation post installed near by. We retreated hurriedly and unpacked our luncheon-basket
on the more sheltered side of the ridge. As we sat there in the grass, swept by a great mountain
breeze full of the scent of thyme and myrtle, while the flutter of birds, the hum of insects,
the still and busy life of the hills went on all about us in the sunshine, the pressure of
the encircling line of death grew more intolerably real. It is not in the mud and jokes and
every-day activities of the trenches that one most feels the damnable insanity of war; it is
where it lurks like a mythical monster in scenes to which the mind has always turned for rest.

We had not yet made the whole tour of the mountain-top; and after luncheon we rode over to
a point where a long narrow yoke connects it with a spur projecting directly above the German
lines. We left our mules in hiding and walked along the yoke, a mere knife-edge of rock rimmed
with dwarf vegetation. Suddenly we heard an explosion behind us: one of the batteries we had
passed on the way up was giving tongue. The German lines roared back and for twenty minutes
the exchange of invective thundered on. The firing was almost incessant; it seemed as if a
great arch of steel were being built up above us in the crystal air. And we could follow each
curve of sound from its incipience to its final crash in the trenches. There were four distinct
phases: the sharp bang from the cannon, the long furious howl overhead, the dispersed and spreading
noise of the shell's explosion, and then the roll of its reverberation from cliff to cliff.
This is what we heard as we crouched in the lee of the firs: what we saw when we looked out
between them was only an occasional burst of white smoke and red flame from one hillside, and
on the opposite one, a minute later, a brown geyser of dust.

