    Large passenger-carrying aircraft are now receiving
    pronounced attention. Lately developed by the Navy is a
    flying-boat having a wing area of 2,400 square feet, equipped
    with three Liberty motors and weighing 22,000 pounds with a
    full load. It is the largest seaplane in the world, and on a
    recent test-trip from Virginia to New York carried fifty-one
    passengers. At the present moment the public is awaiting the
    thrilling details of the first flight between Europe and
    America, which has just occurred as a result of the keen
    international rivalry involved between the various entrants.

    The British are now constructing a super-triplane fitted with
    six 500 horse-power engines. Originally intended to carry
    10,000 pounds of bombs and a crew of eight over a distance of
    1,200 miles, the converted machine is claimed to be able to
    carry approximately one hundred passengers. It has a wing
    span of 141 feet and a fuselage length of 85 feet.

    What about the power plants of the future aircraft? Will the
    internal-combustion engine continue to reign supreme, or will
    increasing power demands of the huge planes to come lead to
    the development of suitable steam-engines? Will the use of
    petroleum continue to be one of the triumphs of aviation, or
    will the time come when substitutes may be successfully
    utilized?

    For aerial motive-power, the principal requirements are:
    great power for weight with a fairly high factor of safety,
    compactness, reliability of operation under flying
    conditions, and safety from fire. Bulk and weight of
    steam-driven equipment apparently impose severe restrictions
    upon its practical development for present aircraft purposes,
    but who is willing to classify its future use as an
    absurdity?

    Steam operation in small model airplanes is no innovation.
    Langley, in 1891-1895, built four model airplanes, one driven
    by carbonic-acid gas and three by steam-engines. One of the
    steam-driven models weighed thirty pounds, and on one
    occasion flew a distance of about three thousand feet. In
    1913 an Englishman constructed a power plant weighing about
    two pounds which consisted of a flash boiler and
    single-acting engine. This unit employed benzolin, impure
    benzine, as fuel, and propelled a model plane weighing five
    pounds.

    Power Plant Engineering, Chicago, June 1, 1919

Making a Brief. The next step after making outlines or briefs of material already organized
is to make your own from material you gather. Speeches you have already prepared or considered
as fit for presentation will supply you with ideas if you cannot work up new material in a
short time. At first you will be more concerned with the form than the meaning of the entries,
but even from the first you should consider the facts or opinions for which each topic or statement
stands. Weigh its importance in the general scheme of details. Consider carefully its suitability
for the audience who may be supposed to hear the finished speech. Discard the inappropriate.
Replace the weak. Improve the indefinite. Be sure your examples and illustrations are apt.

Be wary about statistics. In listening to an address many people begin to distrust as soon
as figures are mentioned. Statistics will illustrate and prove assertions, but they must be
used judiciously. Do not use too many statistics. Never be too detailed. In a speech, $4,000,000
sounds more impressive than $4,232,196.96. Use round numbers. Never let them stand alone. Show
their relationship. Burke quotes exact amounts to show the growth of the commerce of Pennsylvania,
but he adds that it had increased fifty fold. A hearer will forget the numbers; he will remember
the fact.

Similar reasons will warn you concerning the use of too many dates. They can be easily avoided
by showing lapses of time--by saying, "fifty years later," or "when he was forty-six years
old," or "this condition was endured only a score of months."

The chapters on introductions, conclusions, and planning material will have suggested certain
orders for your briefs. Glance back at them for hints before you attempt to make the general
scheme. Let two factors determine your resultant development--the nature of the material itself
and the effect you want to produce.

In argumentative speeches a usual, as well as excellent, order is this:

1. Origin of the question. The immediate cause for discussion.

2. History of the question.

3. Definition of terms.

4. Main arguments.

5. Conclusion.

Why is the proposition worth discussing at this present time? Why do you choose it? Why is
it timely? What is its importance? Why is a settlement needed? Any of these would fall under
the first heading.

Has the matter engaged attention prior to the present? Has it changed? Was any settlement ever
attempted? What was its result?

Are any of the words and phrases used likely to be misunderstood? Are any used in special senses?
Do all people accept the same meaning? Good illustrations of this last are the ideas attached
to socialism, anarchist, soviet, union.

To illustrate: the question of woman suffrage was brought into public interest once more by
the advance woman has made in all walks of life and by the needs and lessons of the great war.
To make clear how its importance had increased a speaker might trace its history from its first
inception. As applied to women, what does "suffrage" mean exactly--the right to vote in all
elections, or only in certain ones? Does it carry with it the right to hold office? Would the
voting qualifications be the same for women as for men? Then would follow the arguments.

How could this scheme be used for a discussion of the Monroe Doctrine? For higher education?
For education for girls? For child working laws? For a league of nations? For admitting Asiatic
laborers to the United States? For advocating the study of the sciences? For urging men to
become farmers? For predicting aerial passenger service? For a scholarship qualification in
athletics? For abolishing railroad grade crossings? For equal wages for men and women?

EXERCISES

Make the completed brief for one or more of the preceding.

Briefs should be made for propositions selected from the following list.

1. The President of the United States should be elected by the direct vote of the people.

2. The States should limit the right of suffrage to persons who can read and write.

3. The President of the United States should be elected for a term of seven years, and be ineligible
to reëlection.

4. A great nation should be made the mandatory over an inferior people.

5. Students should be allowed school credit for outside reading in connection with assigned
work, or for editing of school papers, or for participation in dramatic performances.

6. This state should adopt the "short ballot."

7. The present rules of football are unsatisfactory.

8. Coaching from the bench should be forbidden in baseball.

9. Compulsory military drill should be introduced into all educational institutions.

10. Participation in athletics lowers the scholarship of students.

11. Pupils should receive credit in school for music lessons outside.

12. The United States should abandon the Monroe Doctrine.

13. In jury trials, a three-fourths vote should be enough for the rendering of a verdict.

14. Strikes are unprofitable.

15. Commercial courses should be offered in all high schools.

16. Employers of children under sixteen should be required to provide at least eight hours
of instruction a week for them.

17. Current events should be studied in all history or civics courses.

18. The practice of Christmas giving should be discontinued.

19. School buildings should be used as social centers.

20. Bring to class an editorial and an outline of it. Put the outline upon the board, or read
it to the class. Then read the editorial.

Speaking from the Brief. Now that the brief is finished so that it represents exactly the material
and development of the final speech, how shall it be used? To use it as the basis of a written
article to be memorized is one method. Many speakers have employed such a method, many today
do. The drawbacks of such memorizing have already been hinted at in an early chapter. If you
want to grow in mental grasp, alertness, and power as a result of your speech training avoid
this method. No matter how halting your first attempts may be, do not get into the seemingly
easy, yet retarding habit of committing to memory. Memorizing has a decided value, but for
speech-making the memory should be trained for larger matters than verbal reproduction. It
should be used for the retention of facts while the other brain faculties are engaged in manipulating
them for the best effect and finding words to express them forcefully. Memory is a helpful
faculty. It should be cultivated in connection with the powers of understanding and expression,
but it is not economical to commit a speech verbatim for delivery. The remarks will lack flexibility,
spontaneity, and often direct appeal. There is a detached, mechanical air about a memorized
speech which helps to ruin it.

With the outline before you, go over it carefully and slowly, mentally putting into words and
sentences the entries you have inserted. You may even speak it half aloud to yourself, if that
fixes the treatment more firmly in your mind. Then place the brief where you can reach it with
your eye, and speak upon your feet. Some teachers recommend doing this before a mirror, but
this is not always any help, unless you are conscious of awkward poses or gestures or movements,
or facial contortions. Say the speech over thus, not only once but several times, improving
the phraseology each time, changing where convenient or necessary, the emphasis, the amount
of time, for each portion.

Self-criticism. Try to criticize yourself. This is not easy at first, but if you are consistent
and persistent in your efforts you will be able to judge yourself in many respects. If you
can induce some friend whose opinion is worth receiving either to listen to your delivery or
to talk the whole thing over with you, you will gain much. In conference with the teacher before
your delivery of the speech such help will be given. As you work over your brief in this manner
you will be delighted to discover suddenly that you need refer to it less and less frequently.
Finally, the outline will be in your mind, and when you speak you can give your entire attention
to the delivery and the audience.

Do not be discouraged if you cannot retain all the outline the first times you try this method.
Many a speaker has announced in his introduction, "I shall present four reasons," and often
has sat down after discussing only three. Until you can dispense entirely with the brief keep
it near you. Speak from it if you need it. Portions which you want to quote exactly (such as
quotations from authorities) may be memorized or read. In reading be sure you read remarkably
well. Few people can read interestingly before a large audience. Keep your papers where you
can get at them easily. Be careful not to lose your place so that you will have to shuffle
them to get the cue for continuing. Pauses are not dangerous when they are made deliberately
for effect, but they are ruinous when they betray to the audience forgetfulness or embarrassment
on the part of the speaker. Anticipate your need. Get your help before you actually need it,
so that you can continue gracefully.

Results. This method, followed for a few months, will develop speaking ability. It produces
results suited to modern conditions of all kinds of life. It develops practically all the mental
faculties and personal attributes. It puts the speaker directly in touch with his audience.
It permits him to adapt his material to an occasion and audience. It gives him the opportunity
to sway his hearers and used legitimately for worthy ends, this is the most worthy purpose
of any speech.

CHAPTER IX

EXPLAINING

The part which explanation plays in all phases of life is too apparent to need any emphasis
here. It is to a great extent the basis of all our daily intercourse, from explaining to a
teacher why a lesson has not been prepared, to painstakingly explaining to a merchant why a
bill has not been paid. An instructor patiently explains a problem to a class, and a merchant
explains the merits of an article or the operation of a device to his customers. The politician
explains why he should be elected. The financier explains the returns from stock and bond purchases.
The President explains to the Senate the reason for treaty clauses. The minister explains the
teachings of his faith to his congregation. You can make this list as long as the varied activities
of all life.

Exposition. This kind of discourse, the purpose of which is explanation, is also called exposition.
Has it any relation to the underlying idea of the term exposition as applied to a great exhibition
or fair? Its purpose is plainly information, the transmission of knowledge. While description
and narration exist primarily to entertain, exposition exists to convey information. Description
and narration may be classed as literature of entertainment; exposition as literature of knowledge.
It answers such questions as how? why? for what purpose? in what manner? by what method? It
can sometimes be used to convince a person with opposing views, for frequently you hear a man
to whom the explanation of a belief has been made, exclaim, "Oh, if that's what you mean, I
agree with you entirely." All instruction, all directions of work, all scientific literature,
are in foundation expository. In its simplest, most disconnected form, exposition gives its
value to that most essential volume, the dictionary.

Make a list of other kinds of books which are mainly or entirely expository in character.

Difficulties in Exposition. Such are the purpose and use of exposition. The difficulty of producing
good exposition is evident from those two factors. As it, exists everywhere, as it purposes
to inform, its first requisite is clearness. Without that quality it is as nothing. When you
direct a stranger how to reach a certain building in your town, of what value are your remarks
unless they are clear? When a scientist writes a treatise on the topic of the immortality of
man, of what value are his opinions unless his statements are clear? All the other qualities
which prose may and should possess sink into subordinate value in exposition when compared
with clearness. Because of all three phases of exposition--its universal use, its informative
purpose, its essential clarity--exposition is an all-important topic for the consideration
and practice of the public speaker. In its demand for clearness lies also its difficulty. Is
it easy to tell the exact truth, not as a moral exercise, but merely as a matter of exactness?
Why do the careless talkers speak so often of "a sort of pink" or "a kind of revolving shaft"
or tack on at the end of phrases the meaningless "something" or "everything" except that even
in their unthinking minds there is the hazy impression--they really never have a well-defined
idea--that they have not said exactly what they want to say?

Clear Understanding. Here then is the first requisite for the public speaker. He must have
no hazy impressions, no unthinking mind, no ill-defined ideas, no inexactness. He must have
a clear understanding of all he tries to tell to others. Without this the words of a speaker
are as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals. Or he may deliver a great roar of words signifying
nothing. This is the fault with most recitations of pupils in school--they do not get a clear
understanding of the material assigned to them for mastery. As a test of the degree of understanding,
the recitation method serves admirably. The lecture method of instruction--clear though the
presentation may be--offers no manner of finding out, until the final examination, how much
the pupil actually understands. So far, in public speaking, the only way of learning that the
student understands the principles and can apply them is to have him speak frequently to indicate
his ability. Can you not name among your associates and friends those whose explanations are
lucid, concise, direct, unconfusing, and others whose attempts at exposition are jumbled, verbose,
unenlightening?

Have you not criticized certain teachers by remarking "they may know their own subjects all
right, but they couldn't impart their knowledge to the class"?

Command of Language. What was lacking in their case? Certainly, to be charitable, we cannot
say they lacked a clear understanding of their own topic. It must have been something else.
That second element, which is at times almost entirely absent when the first is present, is
the command of language. Many a man knows a great deal but is incapable of transmitting his
knowledge. He lacks the gift of expression. He has not cultivated it--for it can be cultivated.
The man whose desire or vocation forces him to make the effort to speak will train himself
in methods of communication, until he arrives at comfort and fluency.

The district manager of a large electric company related that as he would sit at a meeting
of the directors or committee of a large corporation and realized that the moment was approaching
when he would be called upon to speak he would feel his senses grow confused, a sinking feeling
amounting almost to faintness would sweep over him. Strong in his determination to do the best
he could for his company he would steady his nerves by saying to himself, "You know more about
this matter than any of these men. That's why you are here. Tell them what you know so plainly
that they will understand as well as you do." There was, you see, the reassurance of complete
understanding of the subject coupled with the endeavor to express it clearly. These two elements,
then, are of supreme significance to the public speaker. Even to the person who desires to
write well, they are all-important. To the speaker they are omnipresent. The effect of these
two upon the intellectual development is marked. The desire for clear understanding will keep
the mind stored with material to assimilate and communicate. It will induce the mind continually
to manipulate this material to secure clarity in presentation. This will result in developing
a mental adroitness of inestimable value to the speaker, enabling him to seize the best method
instantaneously and apply it to his purposes. At the same time, keeping always in view the
use of this material as the basis of communicating information or convincing by making explanations,
he will be solicitous about his language. Words will take on new values. He will be continually
searching for new ones to express the exact differences of ideas he wants to convey. He will
try different expressions, various phrases, changed word orders, to test their efficacy and
appropriateness in transferring his meaning to his hearers. Suggestions offered in the chapter
of this book on words and sentences will never cease to operate in his thinking and speaking.
There will be a direct result in his ability as a speaker and a reflex result upon his ability
as a thinker. What is more encouraging, he will realize and appreciate these results himself,
and his satisfaction in doing better work will be doubled by the delight in knowing exactly
how he secured the ends for which he strove.

Methods of Explaining. In order to make a matter clear, to convey information, a speaker has
at his disposal many helpful ways of arranging his material. Not all topics can be treated
in all or even any certain one of the following manners, but if the student is familiar with
certain processes he will the more easily and surely choose just that one suited to the topic
he intends to explain and the circumstances of his exposition.

Division. One of these methods is by division. A speaker may separate a topic or term into
the parts which comprise it. For instance, a scientist may have to list all the kinds of electricity;
a Red Cross instructor may divide all bandages into their several kinds; an athletic coach
may have to explain all the branches of sports in order to induce more candidates to appear
for certain events; a banker may have to divide financial operations to make clear an advertising
pamphlet soliciting new lines of business, such as drawing up of wills.

The ability to do this is a valuable mental accomplishment as well as an aid to speaking. In
dividing, care must be taken to make the separations according to one principle for any one
class. It would not result in clearness to divide all men according to height, and at the same
time according to color. This would result in confusion. Divide according to height first,
then divide the classes so formed according to color if needed--as might be done in military
formation. Each group, then, must be distinctly marked off from all other groups. In scientific
and technical matters such division may be carried to the extreme limit of completeness. Complete
division is called classification.

Partition. In non-scientific compositions such completeness is seldom necessary. It might even
defeat the purpose by being too involved, by including too many entries, and by becoming difficult
to remember. Speakers seldom have need of classification, but they often do have to make divisions
for purposes of explanation. This kind of grouping is called partition. It goes only so far
as is necessary for the purpose at the time. It may stop anywhere short of being complete and
scientifically exact. All members of the large class not divided and listed are frequently
lumped together under a last heading such as all others, miscellaneous, the rest, those not
falling under our present examination.

EXERCISES

1. Classify games. Which principle will you use for your first main division--indoor and outdoor
games, or winter and summer games, or some other?

2. Classify the races of men. What principle would you use?

3. How would you arrange the books in a private library?

4. Classify the forms of theatrical entertainments. Is your list complete?

5. Classify branches of mathematics. The entries may total over a hundred.

6. Classify the pupils in your school.

7. Classify the people in your school. Is there any difference?

8. Classify the following:

The political parties of the country. Methods of transportation. Religions. Magazines. The
buildings in a city. Aircraft. Desserts. Canned goods.

Skill in division is valuable not only as a method of exposition but it is linked closely with
an effective method of proving to be explained in the next chapter--the method of residues.
Can you recall any extracts given in this book in which some form of division is used? Is this
form of material likely to be more important in preparation or in the finished speech? Explain
your opinion--in other words, present a specimen of exposition.

Definition. One of the simplest ways of explaining is to define a term. Dictionary definitions
are familiar to everyone. In a great many instances the dictionary definition is by means of
synonyms. While this is a convenient, easy method it is seldom exact. Why? Recall what you
learned concerning the meanings of synonyms. Do they ever exactly reproduce one another's meanings?
There is always a slight degree of inaccuracy in definition by synonym, sometimes a large margin
of inexactness. Is the following a good definition?

    A visitor to a school began his address: "This morning,
    children, I propose to offer you an epitome of the life of
    St. Paul. It may be perhaps that there are among you some too
    young to grasp the meaning of the word epitome. Epitome,
    children, is in its signification synonymous with synopsis!"

    London Tid-Bits

Logical Definition. An exact definition is supplied by the logical definition. In this there
are three parts--the term to be defined, the class (or genus) to which it belongs, and the
distinguishing characteristics (differentia) which mark it off from all the other members of
that same class. You can represent this graphically by inclosing the word term in a small circle.
Around this draw a larger circle in which you write the word class. Now what divides the term
from the class in which it belongs? Indicate the line around the term as distinguishing characteristics,
and you will clearly see how accurate a logical definition is. The class should be just larger
than the term itself. The main difficulty is in finding exact and satisfying distinguishing
characteristics. There are some terms which are so large that no classes can be found for them.
Others cannot be marked by acceptable distinguishing characteristics, so it is not possible
to make logical definitions for all terms. Consider such words as infinity, electricity, gravity,
man.

The words of the definition should be simple, more readily understood than the term to be defined.

Term          Class                     Distinguishing characteristics

A biplane     is an airplane             with two sets of supporting
                                         surfaces.

A waitress    is a woman                 who serves meals.

Narration     is that form of discourse  which relates events.

A word        is a combination of        suggesting an idea.
              letters
A dictionary  is a book                  of definitions.

A corporal    is an army officer         just higher than a private.

EXERCISES

1. Make logical definitions for the following:

A dynamo                A circle        A hammer A curiosity             Lightning       A
trip-hammer Moving picture camera   Democracy       A lady Curiosity               An anarchist
A Lady A door                  A sky-scraper   Man

2. Analyze and comment on the following definitions:

Man is a two-legged animal without feathers.
Life is an epileptic fit between two nothings.
Genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains.
The picture writings of the ancient Egyptians are called hieroglyphics.
A fly is an obnoxious insect that disturbs you in the morning when you
    want to sleep.
Real bravery is defeated cowardice.
A brigantine is a small, two-masted vessel, square rigged on both
    masts, but with a fore-and-aft mainsail and the mainmast considerably
    longer than the foremast.
A mushroom is a cryptogamic plant of the class Fungi; particularly
    the agaricoid fungi and especially the edible forms.
Language is the means of concealing thought.
A rectangle of equal sides is a square.
Hyperbole is a natural exaggeration for the purpose of emphasis.

Amplified Definition. While such definitions are the first positions from which all interpretations
must proceed, in actual speech-making explanations of terms are considerably longer. Yet the
form of the true logical definition is always imbedded--in germ at least--in the amplified
statement.

    Again, democracy will be, in a large sense, individualistic.
    That ideal of society which seeks a disciplined, obedient
    people, submissive to government and unquestioning in its
    acceptance of orders, is not a democratic ideal. You cannot
    have an atmosphere of "implicit obedience to authority" and
    at the same time and in the same place an atmosphere of
    democratic freedom. There is only one kind of discipline
    that is adequate to democracy and that is self-discipline.
    An observant foreigner has lately remarked, somewhat
    paradoxically, that the Americans seemed to him the best
    disciplined people in the world. In no other country does a
    line form itself at a ticket office or at the entrance to a
    place of amusement with so little disorder, so little delay,
    and so little help from a policeman. In no other country
    would an appeal of the government for self-control in the use
    of food or fuel, for a restriction of hours of business, for
    "gas-less Sundays," have met with so ready, so generous and
    so sufficient a response. Our American lads, alert,
    adaptable, swiftly-trained, self-directed, have been quite
    the equal of the continental soldiers, with their longer
    technical training and more rigorous military discipline. In
    these respects the English, and especially the British
    colonial soldiers have been much like our own. Democracy,
    whether for peace or for war, in America or in England,
    favors individuality. Independence of thought and action on
    the part of the mass of the people are alike the result of
    democracy and the condition of its continuance and more
    complete development, and it is visibly growing in England as
    the trammels of old political and social class control are
    being thrown off.

    DANIEL WEBSTER: The Constitution Not a Compact
    between Sovereign States, 1833

Particulars of a General Statement. A general statement made at the beginning of a paragraph
or section, serving as the topic sentence, may then be explained by breaking the general idea
up into details and particulars. This may partake of the nature of both definition and partition,
as the terms may be explained and their component parts listed. Note that in the following
selection the first sentences state the topic of the passage which the succeeding sentences
explain by discussing the phrase variety of evils.

    GEORGE WASHINGTON: Farewell Address, 1796

Examples. A statement may be explained by giving examples. The speaker must be sure that his
example fits the case exactly; that it is typical--that is, it must serve as a true instance
of all cases under the statement, not be merely an exception; that it is perfectly clear; that
it impresses the audience as unanswerable. The example may be either actual or suppositious,
but it must illustrate clearly and accurately. The use of examples is a great aid in explanation.
John C. Calhoun expressed the value very distinctly in one of his speeches.

     I know how difficult it is to communicate distinct ideas on
     such a subject, through the medium of general propositions,
     without particular illustration; and in order that I may be
     distinctly understood, though at the hazard of being
     tedious, I will illustrate the important principle which I
     have ventured to advance, by examples.

By the use of an example he does make himself distinctly understood.

     Let us, then, suppose a small community of five persons,
     separated from the rest of the world; and, to make the
     example strong, let us suppose them all to be engaged in the
     same pursuit, and to be of equal wealth. Let us further
     suppose that they determine to govern the community by the
     will of a majority; and, to make the case as strong as
     possible, let us suppose that the majority, in order to
     meet the expenses of the government, lay an equal tax, say
     of one hundred dollars on each individual of this little
     community. Their treasury would contain five hundred
     dollars. Three are a majority; and they, by supposition,
     have contributed three hundred as their portion, and the
     other two (the minority), two hundred. The three have the
     right to make the appropriations as they may think proper.
     The question is, How would the principle of the absolute and
     unchecked majority operate, under these circumstances, in
     this little community?

     JOHN C. CALHOUN: Speech on The Force Bill, 1833

The example should be taken from the same phase of life as the proposition it explains. As
Calhoun was discussing governmental regulation he supposed an example from majority rule. In
the next the topic is copyright, so the illustration is not taken from patents. In introducing
your own examples avoid the trite, amateurish expression "take, for instance."

     Now, this is the sort of boon which my honorable and learned
     friend holds out to authors. Considered as a boon to them,
     it is a mere nullity; but, considered as an impost on the
     public, it is no nullity, but a very serious and pernicious
     reality. I will take an example. Dr. Johnson died fifty-six
     years ago. If the law were what my honorable and learned
     friend wishes to make it, somebody would now have the
     monopoly of Dr. Johnson's works. Who that somebody would be
     it is impossible to say; but we may venture to guess. I
     guess, then, that it would have been some bookseller, who
     was the assign of another bookseller, who was the grandson
     of a third bookseller, who had bought the copyright from
     Black Frank, the doctor's servant and residuary legatee, in
     1785 or 1786. Now, would the knowledge that this copyright
     would exist in 1841 have been a source of gratification to
     Johnson? Would it have stimulated his exertions? Would it
     have once drawn him out of his bed before noon? Would it
     have once cheered him under a fit of the spleen? Would it
     have induced him to give us one more allegory, one more life
     of a poet, one more imitation of Juvenal? I firmly believe
     not. I firmly believe that a hundred years ago, when he was
     writing our debates for the Gentleman's Magazine, he would
     very much rather have had twopence to buy a plate of shin of
     beef at a cook's shop underground.

     THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY: Copyright, 1841

Comparison. Unfamiliar matter may be made plain by showing how it resembles something already
clearly understood by the audience. This is comparison. It shows how two things are alike.
The old geographies used to state that the earth is an oblate spheroid, then explain that term
by comparison with an orange, pointing out the essential flattening at the poles. In any use
of comparison the resemblance must be real, not assumed. Many a speaker has been severely criticized
for his facts because he asserted in comparison similarities that did not exist.

Contrast. When the differences between two things are carefully enumerated the process is termed
contrast. This is often used in combination with comparison, for no two things are exactly
alike. They may resemble each other in nearly all respects, so comparison is possible and helpful
up to a certain limit. To give an exact idea of the remainder the differences must be pointed
out; that requires contrast.

In contrast the opposing balance of details does not have to depend necessarily on a standard
familiar to the audience. It may be an arrangement of opposite aspects of the same thing to
bring out more vividly the understanding. In his History of the English People, Green explains
the character of Queen Elizabeth by showing the contrasted elements she inherited from her
mother, Anne Boleyn, and her father, Henry VIII. Such a method results not only in added clearness,
but also in emphasis. The plan may call for half a paragraph on one side, the second half on
the other; or it may cover two paragraphs or sections; or it may alternate with every detail--an
affirmative balanced by a negative, followed at once by another pair of affirmative and negative,
or statement and contrast, and so on until the end. The speaker must consider such possibilities
of contrast, plan for his own, and indicate it in his brief.

Nearly any speech will provide illustrations of the methods of comparison and contrast. Burke's
Conciliation with America has several passages of each.

Cause to Effect. Explanations based on progressions from cause to effect and the reverse are
admirably suited to operations, movements, changes, conditions, elections. An exposition of
a manufacturing process might move from cause to effect. A legislator trying to secure the
passage of a measure might explain its operation by beginning with the law (the cause) and
tracing its results (the effect). So, too, a reformer might plead for a changed condition by
following the same method. A speaker dealing with history or biography might use this same plan.

Effect to Cause. In actual events, the cause always precedes the effect, but in discussion
it is sometimes better not to follow natural or usual orders. Many explanations gain in clearness
and effect by working backwards. A voter might begin by showing the condition of a set of workmen
(an effect), then trace conditions backward until he would end with a plea for the repeal of
a law (the cause). A student might explain a low mark on his report by starting with the grading
(the effect) and tracing backwards all his struggles to an early absence by which he missed
a necessary explanation by the teacher. A doctor might begin a report by stating the illness
of several persons with typhus; then trace preceding conditions step by step until he reached
the cause--oysters eaten by them in a hotel were kept cool by a dealer's letting water run
over them. This water in its course had picked up the disease germs--the cause. Many crimes
are solved by moving from effect to cause. A lawyer in his speeches, therefore, frequently
follows this method.

Both these methods are so commonly employed that the student can cite instances from many speeches
he has heard or books he has read.

Time Order. Somewhat similar to the two preceding arrangements of exposition are the next two
based on time. The first of these is the natural time order, or chronological order. In this
the details follow one another as events happened. It is to be noted, however, that not any
group of succeeding details will make a good exposition of this sort. The parts must be closely
related. They must be not merely sequential but consequential. Dictionary definitions will
explain the difference in meaning of those two words. This method is somewhat like the order
from cause to effect, but it is adapted to other kinds of topics and other purposes of explanation.
It is excellently suited to historical material, or any related kind. It is the device usually
employed in explaining mechanical or manufacturing processes. In mere frequency of occurrence
it is doubtlessly the most common.

Time Order Reversed. The student who starts to cast his expositions into this scheme should
judge its fitness for his particular purpose at the time. It will often become apparent upon
thought that instead of the natural chronological order the exact opposite will suit better.
This--time order reversed--explains itself as the arrangement from the latest occurrence back
through preceding events and details until the earliest time is reached. It is quite like the
arrangement from effect back to cause. It might be used to explain the legal procedure of a
state or nation, to explain treaty relations, to explain the giving up of old laws. The movements
of a man accused of crime might be explained in this way. An alibi for a person might be built
up thus. The various versions of some popular story told over and over again through a long
period of years might be explained after such a manner.

Although the time order reversed is not so common as the chronological order it does occur
many times.

Place. Certain material of exposition demands the order of place. This means that the details
of the explanation are arranged according to the position of objects. If you have written many
descriptions you are familiar with the problems brought up by such an order. A few illustrations
will make it clear. A man on the street asks you how to reach a certain point in the city.
On what plan do you arrange your directions? According to their place? You start to explain
to a friend the general lay-out of New York, or Chicago, or San Francisco. How do you arrange
the details of your exposition? You attempt to convey to another person the plan of some large
building. What arrangement is inevitable? How do books on sports explain the baseball field,
the football gridiron, the tennis court, the golf links? When specifications for a building
are furnished to the contractor, what principle of arrangement is followed? If an inventor
gives instructions to a pattern-maker for the construction of a model, what plan does he follow?
Would a man discussing drawings for a new house be likely to formulate his explanations on
this scheme?

You see, then, how well suited such an arrangement is to a variety of uses. In such expository
passages the transition and connecting words are mainly expressions of place and relative position
such as to the right, above, below, to the rear, extending upwards at an angle of sixty degrees,
dividing equally into three sections. Such indications must never be slighted in spoken explanations.
They keep the material clear and exact in the hearer's comprehension. The speaker, remember,
can never assume that his audience is bound to understand him. His task is to be so clear that
no single individual can fail to understand him.

Importance. It has already been stated--in the chapter on planning--that topics may be arranged
in the order of their importance. This same scheme may be used in delivery of expository matter.
A hearer will follow the explanation if he be led gradually up the ascent; he will remember
most clearly the latter part of the passage. If this include the prime factor of the information
he will retain it longest and most clearly. You should listen to speeches of explanations critically
to judge whether the plans are good. Should you make a list of the number of times any of the
plans here set down appears you will be struck by the fact that while other orders are quite
frequent, this last principle of leading up to the most important outranks all the others.
It may be simply a form of one of the others previously enumerated in which time order, or
contrast, or cause to effect is followed simply because that does bring the most important
last in the discussion. Such an arrangement answers best to the response made to ideas by people
in audiences. It is a principle of all attempts to instruct them, to appeal to them, to stimulate
them, to move them, that the successive steps must increase in significance and impressiveness
until the most moving details be laid before them. Analyze for yourself or for the class a
few long explanations you have listened to, and report whether this principle was followed.
Does it bear any relation to concluding a speech with a peroration?

Combinations of Methods. While any one of the foregoing methods may be used for a single passage
it is not usual in actual practice to find one scheme used throughout all the explanatory matter
of the speech. In the first place, the attention of the audience would very likely become wearied
by the monotony of such a device. Certain parts of the material under explanation seem to require
one treatment, other portions require different handling. Therefore good speakers usually combine
two or more of these plans.

Partition could hardly be used throughout an entire speech without ruining its interest. It
occurs usually early to map out the general field or scope. Definition also is likely to be
necessary at the beginning of an explanation to start the audience with clear ideas. It may
be resorted to at various times later whenever a new term is introduced with a meaning the
audience may not entirely understand. Both partition and definition are short, so they are
combined with other forms. Examples, likewise, may be introduced anywhere.

The two most frequently closely combined are comparison and contrast. Each seems to require
the other. Having shown how two things or ideas are alike, the speaker naturally passes on
to secure more definiteness by showing that with all their likenesses they are not exactly
the same, and that the differences are as essential to a clear comprehension of them as the
similarities. So usual are they that many people accept the two words as meaning almost the
same thing, though in essence they are opposites.

The other orders cannot be used in such close combinations but they may be found in varying
degrees in many extended speeches of explanation as the nature of the material lends itself
to one treatment or another. A twelve-hundred word discussion of The Future of Food uses examples,
contrasted examples, effect to cause, cause to effect (the phrase beginning a paragraph is
"there is already evidence that this has resulted in a general lowering "), while the succeeding
parts grow in significance until the last is the most important. A great English statesman
in a speech lasting some three hours on a policy of government employed the following different
methods at various places where he introduced expository material--partition (he claimed it
was classification, but he listed for consideration only three of the essential five choices),
contrast, comparison, time, example, place, cause to effect. Some of these methods of arranging
explanatory matter were used several times.

EXERCISES

1. Explain a topic by giving three examples. The class should comment upon their value.

2. Explain to the class some mechanical operation or device. The class after listening should
decide which method the speaker used.

3. Explain some principle of government or society following the time order.

4. With a similar topic follow time reversed.

5. With a similar topic use comparison only.

6. Follow an arrangement based on contrast only.

7. In explaining a topic combine comparison and contrast.

8. Explain some proverb, text, or quotation. The class should discuss the arrangement.

9. Choose some law or government regulation. Condemn or approve it in an explanation based
on cause to effect.

10. With the same or a similar topic use effect to cause.

11. Explain to the class the plan of some large building or group of buildings. Is your explanation
easily understood?

12. Explain why a certain study fits one for a particular vocation. Use the order of importance.

13. Give an idea of two different magazines, using comparison and contrast.

14. Explain some game. Time order?

15. How is a jury trial conducted?

16. Explain the principles of some political party.

17. Speak for four minutes upon exercise in a gymnasium.

18. Tell how a school paper, or daily newspaper, or magazine is conducted.

19. What is slang?

20. Explain one of your hobbies.

21. Classify and explain the qualities of a good speaker. Order of importance?

22. Explain some natural phenomenon.

23. Explain the best method for studying.

24. Contrast business methods.

25. From some business (as stock selling) or industry (as automobile manufacturing) or new
vocation (as airplaning) or art (as acting) or accomplishment (as cooking) choose a group of
special terms and explain them in a connected series of remarks.

26. Why is superstition so prevalent? The class should discuss the explanations presented.

27. "The point that always perplexes me is this: I always feel that if all the wealth was shared
out, it would be all the same again in a few years' time. No one has ever explained to me how
you can get over that." Explain clearly one of the two views suggested here.

28. Explain the failure of some political movement, or the defeat of some nation.

29. Select a passage from some book, report, or article, couched in intricate technical or
specialized phraseology. Explain it clearly to the class.

30. Ben Jonson, a friend of Shakespeare's, wrote of him, "He was not of an age, but for all
time." What did he mean?

CHAPTER X

PROVING AND PERSUADING

What Argumentation Is. It is an old saying that there are two sides to every question. Any
speaker who supports some opinion before an audience, who advances some theory, who urges people
to do a certain thing, to vote a certain way, to give money for charitable purposes, recognizes
the opposite side. In trying to make people believe as he believes, to induce them to act as
he advises, he must argue with them. Argumentation, as used in this book, differs widely from
the informal exchange of opinions and views indulged in across the dinner table or on the trolley
car. It does not correspond with the usual meaning of argue and argument which both so frequently
suggest wrangling and bickering ending in ill-tempered personal attacks. Argumentation is the
well-considered, deliberate means employed to convince others of the truth or expediency of
the views advocated by the speaker. Its purpose is to carry conviction to the consciousness
of others. This is its purpose. Its method is proof. Proof is the body of facts, opinions,
reasons, illustrations, conclusions, etc., properly arranged and effectively presented which
makes others accept as true or right the proposition advanced by the speaker. Of course, argumentation
may exist in writing but as this volume is concerned with oral delivery, the word speaker is
used in the definition. So much for the purpose and nature of argumentation.

Use of Argumentation. Where is it used? Everywhere, in every form of human activity. Argumentation
is used by a youngster trying to induce a companion to go swimming and by a committee of world
statesmen discussing the allotment of territory. In business a man uses it from the time he
successfully convinces a firm it should employ him as an office boy until he secures the acceptance
of his plans for a combination of interests which will control the world market. Lawyers, politicians,
statesmen, clergymen, live by argumentation. In the life of today, which emphasizes so markedly
the two ideas of individuality and efficiency, argumentation is of paramount importance.

Any person can argue, in the ordinary sense of stating opinions and views, in so far as any
one can converse. But to produce good, convincing argumentation is not so easy as that. The
expression of personal preferences, opinions, ideas, is not argumentation, although some people
who advance so far as to become speakers before audiences seem never to realize that truth,
and display themselves as pretending to offer argumentation when they are in reality doing
no more than reciting personal beliefs and suggestions.

Cite instances of speakers who have indulged in such personal opinions when they might or should
have offered arguments.

While argumentation is not so easily assembled as running conversation is, it may be made quite
as fascinating as the latter, and just as surely as a person can have his conversational ability
developed so can a person have his argumentative power strengthened.

Conviction. What should be the first requisite of a speaker of argumentation? Should it be
conviction in the truth or right of the position he takes and the proposition he supports?
At first thought one would answer emphatically "yes." A great deal of discredit has been brought
upon the study of argumentation by the practice of speakers to pretend to have opinions which
in reality they do not sincerely believe. The practical instance is the willingness of paid
lawyers to defend men of whose guilt they must be sure. Such criticism does not apply to cases
in which there are reasonable chances for opposing interpretations, nor to those cases in which
our law decrees that every person accused of crime shall be provided with counsel, but to those
practices to which Lincoln referred when he recommended the lawyer not to court litigation.
Nor should this criticism deter a student of public speaking from trying his skill in defense
of the other side, when he feels that such practice will help him in weighing his own arguments.
In every instance of this highly commendable double method of preparation which the author
has seen in classrooms, the speaker, after his speech has been commented upon, has always declared
his real position and explained why he advocated the opposite. Even school and college debating
has been criticized in the same way for becoming not an attempt to discover or establish the
truth or right of a proposition, but a mere game with formal rules, a set of scoring regulations,
and a victory or defeat with consequent good or bad effects upon the whole practice of undergraduate
debating. If such contests are understood in their true significance, as practice in training,
and the assumption of conviction by a student is not continued after graduation so that he
will in real life defend and support opinions he really does not believe, the danger is not
so great. The man who has no fixed principles, who can argue equally glibly on any side of
a matter, whose talents are at any man's command of service, is untrustworthy. Convictions
are worthy elements in life. A man must change his stand when his convictions are argued away,
but the man whose opinions shift with every new scrap of information or influence is neither
a safe leader nor a dependable subordinate.

For the sake of the training, then, a student may present arguments from attitudes other than
his own sincere conviction, but the practice should be nothing more than a recognized exercise.

Because of its telling influence upon the opinion of others let us, without further reservation,
set down that the first essential of a good argument is the ability to convince others. Aside
from the language and the manner of delivery--two elements which must never be disregarded
in any speech--this ability to convince others depends upon the proof presented to them in
support of a proposition. The various kinds and methods of proof, with matters closely related
to them, make up the material of this chapter.

The Proposition. In order to induce argument, there must be a proposition. A proposition in
argument is a statement--a declarative sentence--concerning the truth or expediency of which
there may be two opinions. Notice that not every declarative statement is a proposition for
argument. "The sun rises" is not a statement about which there can be any varying opinions.
It is not a proposition for argument. But "Missionaries should not be sent to China," and "John
Doe killed Simon Lee," are statements admitting of different opinions and beliefs. They are
propositions for argument. No sane person would argue about such a statement as "Missionaries
are sent to China," nor would any one waste time on such a statement as "Some day a man named
John Doe will kill a man named Simon Lee."

Although in common language we speak of arguing a question the student must remember that such
a thing is impossible. You cannot argue about a question. Nor can you argue about a subject
or a topic. The only expression about which there can be any argument is a proposition. The
question must be answered. The resulting statement is then proved or disproved. The topic must
be given some definite expression in a declarative sentence before any real argument is possible.
Even when the matter of argument is incorrectly phrased as a topic or question you will find
almost immediately in the remarks the proposition as a sentence. "Should women vote?" may be
on the posters announcing an address, but the speaker will soon declare, "Women should vote
in all elections in the United States upon the same conditions that men do." That is the proposition
being argued; the question has been answered.

Kinds of Propositions. Certain kinds of propositions should never be chosen for argumentation.
Many are incapable of proof, so any speech upon them would result in the mere repetition of
personal opinions. Such are: The pen is mightier than the sword; Business men should not read
poetry; Every person should play golf; Ancient authors were greater than modern authors. Others
are of no interest to contemporary audiences and for that reason should not be presented. In
the Middle Ages scholars discussed such matters as how many angels could stand on the point
of a needle, but today no one cares about such things.

Propositions of Fact. Propositions fall into the two classes already illustrated by the statements
about missionaries in China and the killing of Simon Lee. The second--John Doe killed Simon
Lee--is a proposition of fact. All argument about it would tend to prove either the affirmative
or the negative. One argument would strive to prove the statement a fact. The other argument
would try to prove its opposite the actual fact. Facts are accomplished results or finished
events. Therefore propositions of fact refer to the past. They are the material of argument
in all cases at law, before investigation committees, and in similar proceedings. Courts of
law demand that pleadings "shall set forth with certainty and with truth the matters of fact
or of law, the truth or falsity of which must be decided to decide the case."

Propositions of Policy. Notice that the other proposition--Missionaries should not be sent
to China--is not concerned with a fact at all. It deals with something which should or should
not be done. It deals with future conduct. It depends upon the value of the results to be secured.
It looks to the future. It deals with some principle of action. It is a question of expediency
or policy. It induces argument to show that one method is the best or not the best. Propositions
of expediency or policy are those which confront all of us at every step in life. Which college
shall a boy attend? What kind of work shall a woman enter? How large shall taxes be next year?
Which candidate shall we elect? How shall we better the city government? How shall I invest
my money? What kind of automobile shall I buy? What kind of will shall I make?

The answers to all such questions make propositions of expediency or policy upon which arguments
are being composed and delivered every day.

In choosing propositions for argument avoid, 1, those which are obviously truth; 2, those in
which some ambiguous word or term covers the truth; 3, those in which the truth or error is
practically impossible of proof; 4, those involving more than one main issue; 5, those which
do not interest the audience.

Wording the Proposition. The proposition should be accurately worded. In law if the word burglary
is used in the indictment, the defense, in order to quash the charge, need show merely that
a door was unlocked. The phrasing should be as simple and concise as possible. The proposition
should not cover too wide a field. Although these directions seem self-evident they should
be kept in mind continually.

When the proposition is satisfactory to the maker of the argument he is ready to begin to build
his proof. In actual speech-making few arguments can be made as convincing as a geometrical
demonstration but a speaker can try to make his reasoning so sound, his development so cogent,
his delivery so convincing, that at the end of his speech, he can exclaim triumphantly, "Quod
erat demonstrandum."

Burden of Proof. Every argument presupposes the opposite side. Even when only one speaker appears
his remarks always indicate the possibility of opposite views in the minds of some of the hearers.
The affirmative and negative are always present. It is frequently asserted that the burden
of proof is on the negative. This is no more correct than the opposite statement would be.
The place of the burden of proof depends entirely upon the wording of the proposition and the
statement it makes. In general the burden of proof is upon the side which proposes any change
of existing conditions, the side which supports innovations, which would introduce new methods.
With the passage of time the burden of proof may shift from one side to the other. There was
a time when the burden of proof was upon the advocates of woman suffrage; today it is undoubtedly
upon the opponents. At one period the opponents of the study of Latin and Greek had the burden
of proof, now the supporters of such study have it. Other topics upon which the burden of proof
has shifted are popular election of Senators, prohibition, League of Nations, self-determination
of small nations, the study of vocations, civics, and current topics in schools, an all-year
school term, higher salaries for teachers, the benefits of labor unions, Americanization of
the foreign born.

Evidence. One of the best ways of proving a statement is by giving evidence of its truth. Evidence
is made up of facts which support any proposition. In court a witness when giving testimony
(evidence) is not allowed to give opinions or beliefs--he is continually warned to offer only
what he knows of the fact. It is upon the facts marshaled before it that the jury is charged
to render its verdict.

Direct Evidence. Evidence may be of two kinds--direct and indirect. This second, especially
in legal matters, is termed circumstantial evidence. Direct evidence consists of facts that
apply directly to the proposition under consideration. If a man sees a street car passenger
take a wallet from another man's pocket and has him arrested at once and the wallet is found
in his pocket, that constitutes direct evidence. Outside criminal cases the same kind of assured
testimony can be cited as direct evidence.

Circumstantial Evidence. In most cases in court such direct evidence is the exception rather
than the rule, for a man attempting crime would shun circumstances in which his crime would
be witnessed. Indirect evidence--circumstantial evidence--is much more usual. It lacks the
certainty of direct evidence, yet from the known facts presented it is often possible to secure
almost the same certainty as from direct evidence. In serious crimes, such as murder, juries
are extremely cautious about convicting upon circumstantial evidence. There are many chances
of error in making chains of evidence. In indirect evidence a group of facts is presented from
which a conclusion is attempted. Suppose a boy had trouble with a farmer and had been heard
to threaten to get even. One day the man struck him with a whip as he passed on the road. That
night the farmer's barn was set on fire. Neighbors declared they saw some one running from
the scene. Next day the boy told his companions he was glad of the loss. Circumstantial evidence
points to the boy as the culprit. Yet what might the facts be?

In presenting arguments get as much direct evidence as possible to prove your statements. When
direct evidence cannot be secured, link your indirect evidence so closely that it presents
not a single weak link. Let the conclusion you draw from it be the only possible one. Make
certain no one else can interpret it in any other way.

When you present evidence be sure it completely covers your contention. Be sure it is clear.
Be sure it fits in with all the other facts and details presented. Do not let it conflict with
usual human experience. Consider the sources of your evidence. If you do not, you can be certain
your audience will. Are your sources reliable? Is the information authoritative? Is it first-hand
material, or merely hearsay? Is it unprejudiced? Many of the other facts for evidence have
already been suggested in the chapter on getting material.

Two General Methods of Reasoning. Frequently the evidence to be used in argumentation must
be interpreted before it can be of any value, especially when dealing with propositions of
expediency or policy. There are two general methods of reasoning. One is the inductive method,
the other the deductive.

Inductive Reasoning. When we discover that a certain operation repeated many times always produces
the same result we feel justified in concluding that we can announce it as a universal law.
After thousands of falling bodies have been measured and always give the same figures, scientists
feel that they may state the law that all falling bodies acquire an acceleration of 32.2 feet
per second. This illustrates the inductive method of reasoning. In this system we reason from
the specific instance to the general law, from the particular experiment to the universal theory,
from the concrete instance to the wide principle.

All modern science is based upon this method--the experimental one. All general theories of
any kind today must--to be accepted--be supported by long and careful consideration of all
possible and probable circumstances. The theory of evolution as applied to the living things
upon the earth is the result of countless observations and experiments.

Hasty Generalization. The speaker cannot himself examine all the specific instances, he cannot
consider all the illustrations which might support his position, but he must be careful of
a too hasty generalization. Having talked with a dozen returned soldiers he may not declare
that all American army men are glad to be out of France, for had he investigated a little further
he might have found an equal number who regret the return to this land. He must base his general
statement on so many instances that his conclusion will convince not only him, but people disposed
to oppose his view. He must be better prepared to show the truth of his declaration than merely
to dismiss an example which does not fit into his scheme by glibly asserting that "exceptions
prove the rule." He must show that what seems to contradict him is in nature an exception and
therefore has nothing at all to do with his rule. Beginning speakers are quite prone to this
fault of too hasty generalization.

EXERCISES

1. Write down five general theories or statements which have been established by inductive
reasoning.

2. Is there any certainty that they will stand unchanged forever?

3. Under what circumstances are such changes made?

4. Can you cite any accepted laws or theories of past periods which have been overturned?

Deductive Reasoning. After general laws have been established, either by human experience or
accepted inductive reasoning, they may be cited as applying to any particular case under consideration.
This passing from the general law to the particular instance is deductive reasoning. Deductive
reasoning has a regular form called the syllogism.

Major premise. All men are mortal. Minor premise. Socrates is a man. Conclusion.    Therefore,
Socrates is mortal.

If the three parts of a syllogism are correct it has absolute convincing power. Most attempts
to disprove its statement attack the first two statements. Although it carries such an air
of certainty it is likely to many errors in use. An error like this is common:

All horses are animals. All cows are animals. Therefore, all cows are horses.

Explain the fallacy in this syllogism.

Quite as frequently the incorrect syllogism is of this kind.

The edge of a stream is a bank. A bank is a financial institution. Therefore, the edge of a
stream is a financial institution.

You will comment upon this that its evident silliness would prevent any speaker from using
such a form in serious argument. But recall that in the discussion of any idea a term may get
its meaning slightly changed. In that slight change of meaning lurks the error illustrated
here, ready to lead to false reasoning and weakening of the argument. Certain words of common
use are likely to such shifting meanings--republic, equality, representative, monarchy, socialistic.
Any doubtful passage in which such an error is suspected should be reduced to its syllogistic
form to be tested for accuracy.

A representative of the people must vote always as they would vote.
A Congressman is a representative of the people.
Therefore, Congressmen must vote always as the people who elect them
    would vote.

Is not the expression, representative of the people, here used in two different senses?

When an argument is delivered, one of the premises--being a statement which the speaker assumes
everyone will admit as true--is sometimes omitted. This shortened form is called an enthymeme.

     Smith will be a successful civil engineer for he is a
     superior mathematician.

Supply the missing premise. Which is it?

In the bald, simple forms here set down, the syllogism and enthymeme are hardly suited to delivery
in speeches. They must be amplified, explained, emphasized, in order to serve a real purpose.
The following represent better the way a speaker uses deductive reasoning.

     The appointing power is vested in the President and Senate;
     this is the general rule of the Constitution. The removing
     power is part of the appointing power; it cannot be
     separated from the rest.

     DANIEL WEBSTER: The Appointing and Removing
     Power, 1835

Then Daniel Webster stated in rather extended form the conclusion that the Senate should share
in the removing proceedings.

     DANIEL WEBSTER: Reply to Calhoun, 1853

Then, he argues, as these revenue laws were passed by a majority, they must be obeyed in South
Carolina.

Methods of Proof. In extended arguments, just as in detailed exposition, many different methods
of proof may be employed.

Explanation. Often a mere clear explanation will induce a listener to accept your view of the
truth of a proposition. You have heard men say, "Oh, if that is what you mean, I agree with
you entirely. I simply didn't understand you." When you are about to engage in argument consider
this method of exposition to see if it will suffice. In all argument there is a great deal
of formal or incidental explanation.

Authority. When authority is cited to prove a statement it must be subjected to the same tests
in argument as in explanation. Is the authority reliable? Is he unprejudiced? Does his testimony
fit in with the circumstances under consideration? Will his statements convince a person likely
to be on the opposing side? Why has so much so-called authoritative information concerning
conditions in Europe been so discounted? Is it not because the reporters are likely to be prejudiced
and because while what they say may be true of certain places and conditions it does not apply
to all the points under discussion? The speaker who wants the support of authority will test
it as carefully as though its influence is to be used against him--as indeed, it frequently is.

Examples. Where examples are used in argumentation they must serve as more than mere illustrations.
In exposition an illustration frequently explains, but that same example would have no value
in argument because while it illustrates it does not prove. A suppositious example may serve
in explanation; only a fact will serve as proof. The more inevitable its application, the more
clinching its effect, the better its argumentative value. Notice how the two examples given
below prove that the heirs of a literary man might be the very worst persons to own the copyrights
of his writings since as owners they might suppress books which the world of readers should
be able to secure easily. While these examples illustrate, do they not also prove?

     I remember Richardson's grandson well; he was a clergyman in
     the city of London; he was a most upright and excellent man;
     but he had conceived a strong prejudice against works of
     fiction. He thought all novel-reading not only frivolous but
     sinful. He said--this I state on the authority of one of his
     clerical brethren who is now a bishop--he said that he had
     never thought it right to read one of his grandfather's
     books.

     I will give another instance. One of the most instructive,
     interesting, and delightful books in our language is
     Boswell's Life of Johnson. Now it is well known that
     Boswell's eldest son considered this book, considered the
     whole relation of Boswell to Johnson, as a blot in the
     escutcheon of the family.

     THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY: Copyright, 1841

Analogy. In argument by analogy the speaker attempts to prove that because certain things are
known to be true in something that can be observed they are likely to be true in something
else which in so far as it can be observed is quite like the first. We continually argue by
analogy in daily life. Lincoln was really using analogy when he replied to the urging to change
his army leaders during the Civil War, that he didn't think it wise to "swap horses while crossing
a stream." Scientists use this method to draw conclusions when it is impossible to secure from
actual observation or experiment a certain last step in the reasoning. The planet Mars and
the earth are similar in practically all observable matters; they are about the same distance
from the sun, they have the same surface conditions. The earth has living creatures upon it.
Hence--so goes the reasoning of analogy--Mars is probably inhabited. Reasoning by analogy is
used to prove that universal suffrage is good for the United States because it has been good
for one particular state. A student may argue by analogy that the elective system should be
introduced into all high schools, because it has been followed in colleges. It may be asserted
that a leading bank president will make a good university president, because he has managed
one complex institution. The essence of all good reasoning by analogy is that the two things
considered must be so nearly alike in all that is known that the presumption of belief is that
they must also be alike in the one point the arguer is trying to establish. This is the test
he must apply to his own analogy arguments.

     Our community frowns with indignation upon the profaneness
     of the duel, having its rise in this irrational point of
     honor. Are you aware that you indulge the same sentiment on
     a gigantic scale, when you recognize this very point of
     honor as a proper apology for war? We have already seen that
     justice is in no respect promoted by war. Is true honor
     promoted where justice is not?

     CHARLES SUMNER: The True Grandeur of Nations,
     1845

Residues. The method of residues is frequently employed when the speaker is supporting a policy
to be carried out, a measure to be adopted, a change to be instituted, or a law to be passed.
Granting the assumption that something must be done he considers all the various methods which
may be employed, disposes of them one by one as illegal, or unsuited, or clumsy, or inexpedient,
leaving only one, the one he wants adopted, as the one which must be followed.

This is a good practical method of proof, provided the speaker really considers all the possible
ways of proceeding and does show the undesirability of all except the one remaining.

A speaker pleading for the installation of a commission form of city control might list all
the possible ways of city government, a business manager, a mayor, a commission. By disposing
completely of the first two, he would have proven the need for the last. A good speaker will
aways go farther than merely to reach this kind of conclusion. He will, in addition to disproving
the unworthy choices, strongly support his residue, the measure he wants adopted. In supporting
amounts of taxes, assessments, etc., this method may be used. One amount can be proven so large
as to cause unrest, another so small as to be insufficient, a third to produce a total just
large enough to meet all anticipated expenses with no surplus for emergencies; therefore the
correct amount must be just larger than this but not reaching an amount likely to produce the
result caused by the first considered. Used in trials of criminal cases it eliminates motives
until a single inevitable remainder cannot be argued away. This may be the clue to follow,
or it may be the last one of all suspected persons. Burke considered several possible ways
of dealing with the American colonies; one he dismissed as no more than a "sally of anger,"
a second could not be operated because of the distance, a scheme of Lord North's he proved
would complicate rather than settle matters, to change the spirit of America was impossible,
to prosecute it as criminal was inexpedient, therefore but one way remained, to conciliate
the spirit of discontent by letting the colonies vote their own taxes. It is interesting that
what Burke described as the sally of anger was the way the matter was actually settled--Great
Britain had to give up the American colonies.

This method is also called elimination.

Cause to Effect. Just as the explainer may pass from cause to effect so may the arguer. Other
names for this method are antecedent probability and a priori argument. In argument from a
known cause an effect is proven as having occurred or as likely to occur. In solving crime
this is the method which uses the value of the motives for crime as known to exist in the feelings
or sentiments of a certain accused person. A person trying to secure the passage of a certain
law will prove that it as the cause will produce certain effects which make it desirable. Changed
conditions in the United States will be brought forward as the cause to prove that the Federal
government must do things never contemplated by the framers of the Constitution. Great military
organization as the cause of the recent war is used now in argument to carry on the plea for
the securing of peace by disarmament.

The main difficulty in reasoning from cause to effect is to make the relationship so clear
and so close that one thing will be accepted by everybody as the undisputed cause of the alleged
effect.

Effect to Cause. In reasoning from effect to cause the reverse method is employed. This is
also termed argument from sign or the a posteriori method. In it, from some known effect the
reasoning proves that it is the result of a certain specified cause. Statistics indicating
business prosperity might be used as the effect from which the arguer proves that they are
caused by a high protective tariff. A speaker shows the good effects upon people to prove that
certain laws--claimed as the causes--should be extended in application. Arguments from effect
to cause may be extremely far reaching; as every effect leads to some cause, which is itself
the effect of some other cause, and so on almost to infinity. The good speaker will use just
those basic causes which prove his proposition--no more.

In actual practice the two forms of reasoning from cause to effect and from effect to cause
are frequently combined to make the arguments all the more convincing. Grouped together they
are termed causal relations.

Persuasion. When a speaker has conclusively proven what he has stated in his proposition, is
his speech ended? In some cases, yes; in many cases, no. Mere proof appeals to the intellect
only; it settles matters perhaps, but leaves the hearer cold and humanly inactive. He may feel
like saying, "Well, even if what you say is true, what are you going to do about it?" Mathematical
and scientific proofs exist for mere information, but most arguments delivered before audiences
have a purpose. They try to make people do something. A group of people should be aroused to
some determination of purposeful thought if not to a registered act at the time. In days of
great stress the appeal to action brought the immediate response in military enlistments; in
enrollment for war work; in pledges of service; in signing membership blanks and subscription
blanks; in spontaneous giving.

Persuasion Produces a Response. The end of most argumentative speaking is to produce a response.
It may be the casting of a vote, the joining of a society, the repudiation of an unworthy candidate,
the demonstrating of the solidarity of labor, the affiliating with a religious sect, the changing
of a mode of procedure, the purchasing of a new church organ, the wearing of simpler fashions,
or any of the thousand and one things a patient listener is urged to do in the course of his
usual life.

When the speaker passes on from mere convincing to appealing for some response he has passed
from argumentation to persuasion. Nearly every argumentative speech dealing with a proposition
of policy shows first what ought to be done, then tries to induce people to do it, by appealing
as strongly as possible to their practical, esthetic, or moral interests. All such interests
depend upon what we call sentiments or feelings to which worthy--note the word worthy--appeals
may legitimately be addressed. Attempts to arouse unworthy motives by stirring up ignorance
and prejudice are always to be most harshly condemned. Such practices have brought certain
kinds of so-called persuasion into well-deserved contempt. The high sounding spell-binder with
his disgusting spread-eagleism cannot be muzzled by law, but he may be rendered harmless by
vacant chairs and empty halls. Real eloquence is not a thing of noise and exaggeration. Beginning
speakers should avoid the tawdry imitation as they would a plague.

Elements of Persuasion. What elements may aid the persuasive power of a speech? First of all,
the occasion may be just the right one. The surroundings may have prepared the audience for
the effect the speaker should make if he knows how to seize upon the opportunity for his own
purpose. The speaker must know how to adapt himself to the circumstances present. In other
cases, he must be able to do the much more difficult thing--adapt the circumstances to his purpose.

Secondly, the subject matter itself may prepare for the persuasive treatment in parts. Everyone
realizes this. When emotional impulses are present in the material the introduction of persuasion
is inevitable and fitting, if not overdone.

Thirdly, the essence of persuasion depends upon the speaker. All the good characteristics of
good speaking will contribute to the effect of his attempts at persuasion. A good speaker is
sincere to the point of winning respect even when he does not carry conviction. He is in earnest.
He is simple and unaffected. He has tact. He is fair to every antagonistic attitude. He has
perfect self-control. He does not lose his temper. He can show a proper sense of humor. He
has genuine sympathy. And finally--perhaps it includes all the preceding--he has personal magnetism.

With such qualities a speaker can make an effective appeal by means of persuasion. If upon
self-criticism and self-examination, or from outside kindly comment, he concludes he is lacking
in any one of these qualities he should try to develop it.

EXERCISES

Prepare and deliver speeches upon some of the following or upon propositions suggested by them.
If the speech is short, try to employ only one method of proof, but make it convincing. Where
suitable, add persuasive elements.

1. Make a proposition from one of the following topics. Deliver an argumentative speech upon
it. The next election. Entrance to college. Child labor. The study of the classics. The study
of science.

2. Recommend changes which will benefit your school, your club or society, your church, your
town, your state.

3. The Japanese should be admitted to the United States upon the same conditions as other foreigners.

4. Men and women should receive the same pay for the same work done.

5. All church property should be taxed.

6. All laws prohibiting secular employment on Sunday should be repealed.

7. The purely protective tariff should be withdrawn from goods the manufacture of which has
been firmly established in this country.

8. Large incomes should be subject to a graduated income tax.

9. Employers should not be forced to recognize labor unions.

10. Immigration into the United States of persons who cannot read or write some language should
be prohibited, except dependents upon such qualified entrants.

11. An amendment should be added to the Constitution providing for uniform marriage and divorce
laws throughout the entire country.

12. A city is the best place for a college.

13. Military training should be obligatory in all public schools.

14. Colleges and universities should reduce the attention paid to athletics.

15. The negro in the South should be disfranchised.

16. The number of Representatives in Congress should be reduced.

17. Moving pictures should be used in schools.

18. Street car systems should be owned and operated by municipalities.

19. Education should be compulsory until the completion of high school.

20. Athletes whose grade is below 75% should be debarred from all participation until the marks
are raised.

21. The Federal government should own and operate the telegraph and telephone systems.

22. The state should provide pensions for indigent mothers of children below the working age.

23. The study of algebra (or some other subject) in the high school should be elective.

24 The initiative should be adopted in all states.

25. The referendum should be adopted in all states.

26. All governmental officials should be subject to recall.

27. The public should support in all ways the movement of labor to secure the closed shop system.

28. Railroad crossings should be abolished.

29. The Federal government should pass laws controlling all prices of foodstuffs.

30. A trial before a group of competent judges should be substituted for trial by jury.

CHAPTER XI

REFUTING

Answering the Other Side. It has been said already that even in a single argumentative speech
some account must be taken of the possibility among the audience of the belief in other views.
A speaker must always assume that people will believe otherwise than he does. In such cases
as debate or questioning after a speech is made, this opposing side will very clearly be brought
out, so that any person training for any kind of public speaking will give much attention to
the contentions of others in order to strengthen his own convictions as displayed in his speeches.

A sincere thinker may believe that trial before a group of competent judges is a better procedure
than trial by jury. Were he to speak upon such a proposition he would realize that he would
meet at once the solid opposition of the general opinion that jury trials, sanctioned by long
practice, are in some mysterious way symbolic of the liberty and equality of mankind. Before
he could expect to arouse sympathetic understanding he would have to answer all the possible
objections and reasons against his new scheme. This he would do by refutation, by disproving
the soundness of the arguments against his scheme. He could cite the evident and recorded injustices
committed by juries. He could bring before them the impossibility of securing an intelligent
verdict from a group of farmers, anxious to get to their farms for harvest, sitting in a case
through July, while the days passed in lengthy examinations of witnesses--one man was on the
stand eight days--and the lawyers bandied words and names like socialist, pagan, bolsheviki,
anarchy, ideal republic, Aristotle, Plato, Herbert Spencer, Karl Marx, Tolstoi, Jane Addams,
Lenin. Then when he felt assured he had removed all the reasons for supporting the present
jury system he could proceed to advance his own substitute.

Need and Value of Refutation. In all argumentation, therefore, refutation is valuable and necessary.
By it opposing arguments are reasoned away, their real value is determined, or they are answered
and demolished if they are false or faulty. To acquire any readiness as a speaker or debater
a person must pay a great deal of attention to refutation. It has also an additional value.
It has been stated that every argumentative speaker must study the other side of every question
upon which he is to speak. One great debater declared that if he had time to study only one
side of a proposition or law case he would devote that time to the other side. Study your own
position from the point of view of the other side. Consider carefully what arguments that side
will naturally advance. In fact, try to refute your own arguments exactly as some opponent
would, or get some friend to try to refute your statements. Many a speaker has gained power
in reasoning by having his views attacked by members of his family who would individually and
collectively try to drive him into a corner. In actual amount, perhaps you will never deliver
as much refutation of an opponent as you will conjure up in your mind against your own speeches.
Perhaps, also, this great amount advanced by you in testing your own position will prevent
your opponents from ever finding in your delivered arguments much against which they can pit
their own powers of refutation.

In judging your own production you will have to imagine yourself on the other side, so the
methods will be the same for all purposes of self-help or weakening of an opponent's views.

Contradiction Is Not Refutation. In the first place contradiction is not refutation. No unsupported
fact or statement has any value in argumentation. Such expressions as "I don't believe, I don't
think so, I don't agree" introduce not arguments, but personal opinions. You must, to make
your refutation valuable, prove your position. Never allow your attempts at refutation to descend
to mere denial or quibbling. Be prepared to support, to prove everything you say.

Three Phases of Refutation. In general, refutation consists of three phases:

1. The analysis of the opposite side. 2. The classification of the arguments according to importance.
3. The answering of only the strongest points.

Analysis of Opposing Side for Accuracy. In the first analysis, you will probably examine the
opposing statements to test their accuracy. Mere slips, so evident that they deceive no one,
you may disregard entirely, but gross error of fact or conclusion you should note and correct
in unmistakably plain terms. The kind of statement which gives insufficient data should be
classed in analysis with this same kind of erroneous statement. A shoe dealer in arguing for
increased prices might quote correctly the rising cost of materials, but if he stopped there,
you in refutation should be able to show that profits had already risen to 57%, and so turn
his own figures against him. Another class of refutation similar to this is the questioning
of authorities. Something concerning this has already been said. In a recent trial a lawyer
cast doubt upon the value of a passage read from a book by declaring its author could never
have written such a thing. In refutation the opposing lawyer said, "You will find that passage
on page 253 of his Essays and Letters." Public speakers, realizing that errors of statement
are likely to be the first to be picked out for correction, and recognizing the damaging effect
of such conviction in error of fact and testimony, are extremely careful not to render themselves
liable to attack upon such points. Yet they may. We are told by Webster's biographers that
in later periods of his life he was detected in errors of law in cases being argued before
the court, and refuted in statement. To catch such slips requires two things of the successful
speaker. He must be in possession of the facts himself. He must be mentally alert to see the
falsity and know how to answer it.

Begging the Question. The expression "begging the question" is often heard as a fallacy in
argument. In its simplest form it is similar to inaccurate statement, for it includes assertions
introduced without proof, and the statement of things as taken for granted without attempting
to prove them, yet using them to prove other statements. Sometimes, also, a careless thinker,
through an extended group of paragraphs will end by taking as proven exactly the proposition
he started out to prove, when close analysis will show that nowhere during the discussion does
he actually prove it. As this is frequent in amateur debates, students should be on their guard
against it.

Ignoring the Question. The same kind of flimsy mental process results in ignoring the question.
Instead of sticking closely to the proposition to be proved the speaker argues beside the point,
proving not the entire proposition but merely a portion of it. Or in some manner he may shift
his ground and emerge, having proven the wrong point or something he did not start out to consider.
An amateur theatrical producer whose playhouse had been closed by the police for violating
the terms of his license started out to defend his action, but ended by proving that all men
are equal. In fact he wound up by quoting the poem by Burns, "A Man's a Man for A' That." Such
a shifting of propositions is a frequent error of speakers. It occurs so often that one might
be disposed to term it a mere trick to deceive, or a clever though unscrupulous device to secure
support for a weak claim. One of the first ways for the speaker to avoid it is to be able to
recognize it when it occurs. One of the most quoted instances of its effective unmasking is
the following by Macaulay.

Appealing to Prejudice or Passions. The question is also ignored when the speaker appeals to
the prejudices or passions of his audience (argumentum ad populum). Persons of some intellect
resent this as almost an insult if they are in the audience, yet it is often resorted to by
speakers who would rather produce the effect they desire by the use of any methods, right or
wrong. Its use in court by unscrupulous lawyers to win decisions is checked by attempts on
the part of judges to counteract it in their charges to the jury, but its influence may still
persist. Mark Antony in Shakespere's play, Julius Caesar, used it in his oration over the dead
body of Caesar to further his own ends.

Taking Advantage of Ignorance. Just as a speaker may take advantage of the prejudices and passions
of an audience, so he may take advantage of their ignorance. Against the blankness of their
brains he may hurl unfamiliar names to dazzle them, cite facts of all kinds to impress them,
show a wide knowledge of all sorts of things, "play up to them" in every way, until they become
so impressed that they are ready to accept as truth anything he chooses to tell them. Any daily
paper will provide examples of the sad results of the power of this kind of fallacious reasoning.
The get-rich-quick schemes, the worthless stock deals, the patent medicine quacks, the extravagantly
worded claims of new religions and faddist movements, all testify to the power this form of
seemingly convincing argument has over the great mass of the ignorant.

The Fallacy of Tradition. In discussing the burden of proof it was said that such burden rests
upon the advocate of change, or novel introductions, etc. This tendency of the people at large
to be rather conservative in practice links with the fallacy of tradition, the belief that
whatever is, is right. In many cases such a faith is worse than wrong, it is pernicious. Many
of the questions concerning relations of modern society--as capital and labor--are based upon
this fallacy. Henry Clay was guilty of it when he announced, "Two hundred years of legislation
have sanctioned and sanctified negro slaves as property." The successful way to dispose of
such a fallacy is illustrated by William Ellery Channing's treatment of this statement.

     But this property, we are told, is not to be questioned on
     account of its long duration. Nothing but respect for the speaker could repress
     criticism on this unhappy phraseology. We will trust it
     escaped him without thought. But to confine ourselves to the
     argument from duration; how obvious the reply! Is injustice
     changed into justice by the practice of the ages? Is my
     victim made a righteous prey because I have bowed him to the
     earth till he cannot rise? For more than two hundred years
     heretics were burned, and not by mobs, not by lynch law, but
     by the decrees of the councils, at the instigation of
     theologians, and with the sanction of the laws and religions
     of nations; and was this a reason for keeping up the fires,
     that they had burned two hundred years? In the Eastern world
     successive despots, not for two hundred years, but for twice
     two thousand have claimed the right of life and death over
     millions, and, with no law but their own will, have
     beheaded, bowstrung, starved, tortured unhappy men without
     number who have incurred their wrath; and does the lapse of
     so many centuries sanctify murder and ferocious power?

Attacking a Speaker's Character or Principles. Sometimes a speaker who finds himself unable
to attack the truth of a proposition, or the arguments cited to support it, changes his tactics
from the subject-matter to the opponent himself and delivers an attack upon his character,
principles, or former beliefs and statements. This is called the argumentum ad hominem. In
no sense is it really argument; it is irrelevant attack, and should be answered in a clear
accurate demonstration of its unsuitability to the topic under consideration. It is unworthy,
of course, but it is a tempting device for the speaker who can combine with it an appeal to
the prejudices or passions of his audience.

The author has seen the entire population of Rome agitated because in a Senatorial debate one
speaker attacked the family reputation of one of his opponents--a matter which, even if true,
certainly had nothing to do with the bill under discussion. Political campaigns used to be
disgraced by a prevalence of such appeals for votes. We may pride ourselves upon an advance
in such matters, but there is still too much of it to let us congratulate ourselves upon our
political good manners. You cannot ascribe bad faith to a man who argues now from a different
attitude from the one he formerly supported. Changes of conviction are frequent in all matters.
A man must be judged by the reasons he gives for his position at any one time. Many a person,
who ten years ago would have argued against it, now believes a League of Nations possible and
necessary. Many a person who a few years back could see no advantage in labor organizations
is anxious now to join an affiliated union.

If you find the suggestion of such an attack in any of your own speeches, cast it out. If it
is ever used against you, refute it by the strength of arguments you deliver in support of
your position. Remove all assertions which do not relate to the debated topic. Make your audience
sympathize with your repudiation of the remarks of your opponent, even though he has succeeded
in delivering them.

Fallacies of Causal Relationship. The various fallacies that may be committed under the relation
of cause and effect are many. Just because something happened prior to something else (the
effect), the first may be mistakenly quoted as the cause. Or the reverse may be the error--the
second may be assumed to be the effect of the first. The way to avoid this fallacy was suggested
in the discussion of explanation by means of cause and effect where the statement was made
that two events must not be merely sequential, they must be consequential. In argument the
slightest gap in the apparent relationship is likely to result in poor reasoning, and the consequent
fallacy may be embodied in the speech. When people argue to prove that superstitions have come
true, do they present clear reasoning to show conclusively that the alleged cause--such as
sitting thirteen at table--actually produced the effect of a death? Do they establish a close
causal relationship, or do they merely assert that after a group of thirteen had sat at table
some one did die? Mathematically, would the law of chance or probability not indicate that
such a thing would happen a little less surely if the number had been twelve, a little more
surely if fourteen?

Common sense, clear headedness, logical reasoning, and a wide knowledge of all kinds of things
will enable a speaker to recognize these fallacies, anticipate them, and successfully refute them.

Methods of Refuting. Having found the fallacies in an argument you should proceed to refute
them. Just how you can best accomplish your purpose of weakening your opponent's position,
of disposing of his arguments, of answering his contentions, must depend always upon the particular
circumstances of the occasion, of the material presented, of the attitude of the judges or
audience, of your opponent himself, and of the purpose you are striving to accomplish. Practice,
knowledge, skill, will in such cases all serve your end. You should be able to choose, and
effectively use the best. It is impossible to anticipate and provide for all the possibilities,
but a few of the most common probabilities and the methods of dealing with them can be here
set down.

Courteous Correction. In case of apparent error or over-sight you will do well to be courteous
rather than over-bearing and dictatorial in your correction. Never risk losing an advantage
by driving your audience into sympathy for your opponent by any manner of your own. A newspaper
discussing the objections made to the covenant of the League of Nations points out an over-sight
in this way: "How did Senator Knox happen to overlook the fact that his plan for compulsory
arbitration is embodied in Article XII of the proposed covenant?"

Refuting Incorrect Analogy. The caution was given that reasoning from analogy must show the
complete correspondence in all points possible of the known from which the reasoning proceeds
to the conclusion about the unknown, which then is to be accepted as true. Unless that complete
correspondence is established firmly the speaker is likely to have his carefully worked out
analogy demolished before his eyes. Notice how such refutation is clearly demonstrated in the
following.

     So it does; but the sophistry here is plain enough, although
     it is not always detected. Great genius and force of
     character undoubtedly make their own career. But because
     Walter Scott was dull at school, is a parent to see with joy
     that his son is a dunce? Because Lord Chatham was of a
     towering conceit, must we infer that pompous vanity portends
     a comprehensive statesmanship that will fill the world with
     the splendor of its triumphs? Because Sir Robert Walpole
     gambled and swore and boozed at Houghton, are we to suppose
     that gross sensuality and coarse contempt of human nature
     are the essential secrets of a power that defended liberty
     against tory intrigue and priestly politics? Was it because
     Benjamin Franklin was not college-bred that he drew the
     lightning from heaven and tore the scepter from the tyrant?
     Was it because Abraham Lincoln had little schooling that his
     great heart beat true to God and man, lifting him to free a
     race and die for his country? Because men naturally great
     have done great service in the world without advantages,
     does it follow that lack of advantage is the secret of
     success? A very good way of showing the
unreliability of an opposing argument is to pretend to accept it as
valid, then carrying it on to a logical conclusion, to show that its
end proves entirely too much, or that it reduces the entire chain of
reasoning to absurdity. This is, in fact, called reductio ad
absurdum. At times the conclusion is so plainly going to be absurd
that the refuter need not carry its successive steps into actual
delivery. In speaking to large groups of people nothing is better than
this for use as an effective weapon. It gives the hearers the feeling
that they have assisted in the damaging demonstration. It almost
seems as though the speaker who uses it were merely using--as he
really is--material kindly presented to him by his opponent. So the
two actually contribute in refuting the first speaker's position.

     DANIEL WEBSTER: The Constitution Not a Compact
     between Sovereign States, 1833

Lincoln could always use this method of reductio ad absurdum most effectively because he seldom
failed to accentuate the absurdity by some instance which made clear to the least learned the
force of his argument. Many of his best remembered quaint and picturesque phrases were embodied
in his serious demolition of some high-handed presumption of a political leader.

     ABRAHAM LINCOLN: Cooper Union Speech, 1860

Amplifying and Diminishing. Finally a good method of refuting the claim of importance made
for an opposing proposition is by amplifying and diminishing. In plain terms this depends upon
contrast in which you reduce the value of the opposing idea and emphasize the value of your
own. An excellent use for this is as a rapid summary at the end of your speech, where it will
leave in the hearer's mind an impression of the comparative value of the two views he has heard
discussed, with an inevitable sense of the unquestioned worth of one above the other. Burke
sums up his extended refutations of Lord North's plan for dealing with America in these telling
contrasts.

     EDMUND BURKE: Conciliation with America, 1775

Position of Refutation in the Speech. The position of refutation in the finished speech will
depend always upon the nature of the proposition, the exact method of the refutation, and the
audience. If you are making the only speech upon the proposition and you feel that the audience
may have a slight prejudice against what you are about to urge, you may gain adherents at once
by refuting at the beginning the possible arguments in their minds. By this procedure you will
clear the field for your own operations. To change the figure of speech, you erase from the
slate what is already written there, so that you may place upon it your own speech and its
convictions.

If you are debating and the speaker just before you has evidently made the judges accept his
arguments, again you might remove that conviction by refutation before you proceed to build
up your own side. If your regular arguments meet his squarely, proceed as you had planned,
but be sure when any reasoning you offer nullifies any he has delivered, that you call the
attention of the audience to the fact that you have wiped out his score. In this way your constructive
argument and refutation will proceed together. You will save valuable time.

Constructive Argument Is More Valuable than Refutation. Often the rebuttal speeches of debate,
coming at the close of the regular debate speeches, seem reserved for all the refutation. This
is certainly the place for much refutation, certainly not all. The last speakers of the rebuttal
speeches should never rest content with leaving only refutation in the hearers' minds. If they
do, the debate may leave the condition entirely where it was at the beginning, for theoretically
every argument advanced by either side has been demolished by the other. After the rebuttal
the last points left with the judges should be constructive arguments.

In a single speech the refutation may be delivered in sections as the demands of coherence
and the opportunities for emphasis may suggest. Here again, always make the last section a
constructive one with arguments in support of your proposition.

CHAPTER XII

DEBATING

The Ideal of Debating. A long time ago so admirable a man as William Penn stated the high ideal
of all real debating whether practised in the limited range of school interests or in the extended
field of life's activities.

     In all debates let truth be thy aim, not victory, or an
     unjust interest; and endeavor to gain, rather than to expose
     thy antagonist.

The quotation states exactly the true aim of all debating--the conclusion of the right, the
truth rather than the securing of a decision over an opponent. The same rules which animate
the true lover of sports, the clear distinction which is instilled into all participants of
amateur athletics of the meanings and significance of the two terms sportsman and sport, can
be carried over to apply to school activities in debating. Honest differences of opinion among
people upon countless questions will always furnish enough material for regular debating so
that no one need ever do violence to his convictions.

Value of Debate. One of the greatest educational values of practice in debate is that the ability
it develops can be applied instantly in the life beyond the schoolroom, that it operates in
every person's daily life. There are differences in the manner in which debating is carried
on in the two places, but practice in the earlier will result in skill and self-confidence
in the second.

Debate in Actual Life. The most marked difference between debates in the two phases of life
is the difference of form. In academic circles debate is a well-regulated game between matched
sides. In actual life only in certain professions are the rules well defined. In most cases
the debating is disguised under different forms, though the essential purposes and methods
are the same.

Debate between lawyers in courts--technically termed pleading--is the most formal of all professional
debating. Its regulations are found in the stabilized court procedure which every lawyer must
master and obey.

Much looser than the formal debate of the court room is the speech-making of the legislative
organization from the lowest township board meeting up to the Senate of the United States.
Of course the members of such bodies are regulated by certain restrictions, but the speeches
are not likely to be curbed in time as are academic performances, nor are the speakers likely
to follow a prearranged order, nor are they always equally balanced in number, nor do they
agree so carefully upon "team work." Sometimes in a legislative body the first speaker may
be on the negative side, which is quite contrary to all the rules of regularly conducted debates.
All the speakers may also be on one side of a measure, the opposing side not deigning to reply,
resting secure in the knowledge of how many votes they can control when the real test of power
comes.

Most informal of all are the general discussions in which business matters are decided. In
these the speeches are never so set as in the two preceding kinds. The men are less formal
in their relations and addresses to one another. The steps are less marked in their changes.
Yet underneath the seeming lack of regulation there is the framework of debate, for there is
always present the sense of two sides upon every proposition, whether it be the purchase of
new office equipment for a distant agent, an increase of salary for employees, or the increase
of capitalization. Certain speakers support some proposition. Others oppose it until they are
convinced and won over to the affirmative side, or until they are out-voted.

Two men seated in an office may themselves be debaters, audience, and judges of their own argumentative
opinions. They may in themselves fill all the requirements of a real debate. They deliver the
speeches on the affirmative and negative sides. Each listens to the arguments of his opponent.
And finally, the pair together give a decision upon the merits of the arguments presented.

On all such occasions the speakers need and use just those qualities which classroom training
has developed in them--knowledge of material, plan of presentation, skill in expression, conviction
and persuasion of manner, graceful acceptance of defeat.

Debating Demands a Decision. Debating goes one step farther than merely argumentative speaking.
Debating demands a decision upon the case, it requires a judgment, a registered action. Again
in this respect it is like a game.

EXERCISES

1. Make a list of propositions which have been debated or might be debated in a courtroom.

2. Make another list of propositions which have been debated or might be debated in legislative
bodies.

3. Make a list of propositions which might be debated in business.

4. As far as is possible, indicate the decisions upon them.

5. Choose some proposition on which there is considerable difference of opinion in the class.
Make a list of those who favor and those who oppose. Speak upon the proposition, alternating
affirmative and negative.

6. Discuss the speeches delivered in the fifth exercise.

Persons Involved in a Debate. Who are the persons involved in a regular debate? They are the
presiding officer, the speakers themselves, the audience, the judges.

The Presiding Officer. Every debate has a presiding officer. The Vice-President of the United
States is the presiding officer of the Senate. The Speaker is the presiding officer of the
House of Representatives. If you will refer to Chapter IV on Beginning the Speech you will
see several other titles of presiding officers. In school debates the head of the institution
may act in that capacity, or some person of note may be invited to preside. In regular classroom
work the instructor may serve as presiding officer, or some member of the class may be chosen
or appointed. The latter method is the best--after the instructor has shown by example just
what the duties of such a position are.

The presiding officer should announce the topic of debate in a short introductory speech. He
should read the names of the speakers on the affirmative and those on the negative side. He
should stipulate the terms of the debate--length of each speech, time for rebuttal, order of
rebuttal, method of keeping speakers within time limits, conditions of judgment (material,
presentation, etc.), announce the judges, and finally introduce the first speaker; then the
subsequent speakers. At the close he might refer to the fact of the debate's being ended, he
might rehearse the conditions of judgment, and request the judges to retire to consider their
decision. Practice varies as to who shall deliver the decision of the judges to the audience.
Sometimes the chairman elected by the judges announces the decision. Sometimes the judges hand
the decision to the presiding officer who announces it.

The Debaters. Beyond saying that the speakers must do their best, there is nothing to be added
here about their duty in the debate except to issue one warning to them in connection with
the next personal element to be considered--the audience.

The Audience. Debaters must remember that in practically no circumstances outside legislative
bodies are the audience and the judges ever the same. Debaters argue to convince the judges--not
the entire audience, who are really as disconnected from the decision of the debate as are
the straggling spectators and listeners in a courtroom detached from the jury who render the
verdict of guilty or not guilty. The debater must therefore speak for the judges, not for his
audience. Many a debating team has in the course of its speeches won all the applause only
to be bitterly disappointed in the end by hearing the decision awarded to the other side. Recall
the warnings given in the previous chapters against the tempting fallacies of appealing to
crowd feelings and prejudices.

In classroom debates it is a good distribution of responsibility to make all the members not
participating in the speaking act as judges and cast votes in rendering a decision. This makes
the judges and the audience one. Moreover it changes the mere listener into a discriminating
judge. If the instructor cares to carry this matter of responsibility one step farther, he
can ask the members of the class to explain and justify their votes.

The audience, when it is also the judge, has the responsibility of careful attention, analysis,
and comparison. It is too much to expect usual general audiences to refuse to be moved by unworthy
pleas and misrepresentations, to accord approval only to the best speakers and the soundest
arguments. But surely in a class of public speakers any such tricks and schemes should be received
with stolid frigidity. Nothing is so damaging to appeals to prejudice, spread-eagleism, and
fustian bombast as an impassive reception.

The Judges. In any debate the judges are of supreme importance. They decide the merits of the
speakers themselves. The judges are of infinitely more importance than the audience. In interscholastic
debates men of some prominence are invited to act as judges. In the instructions to them it
should be made clear that they are not to decide which side of a proposition they themselves
approve. They are to decide which group of speakers does the best work. They should try to
be merely the impersonal registers of comparative merit. They should sink their own feelings
as every teacher must when he hears a good speech from one of his own students supporting something
to which the instructor is opposed. Good judges of debates realize this and frequently award
decisions to speakers who support opposite positions to their personal opinions. They must
not be like the judges in an interscholastic debate who announced their decision thus, "The
judges have decided that China must not be dismembered." That was an interesting fact perhaps,
but it had nothing to do with their duty as judges of that debate.

In business, the buyer, the head of the department, the board of directors, constitute the
judges who render the decision. In legislative assemblies the audience and judges are practically
identical, for after the debate upon a measure is concluded, those who have listened to it
render individual verdicts by casting their votes. In such cases we frequently see decisions
rendered not upon the merits of the debate, but according to class prejudice, personal opinion,
or party lines. This is why so many great argumentative speeches were accounted failures at
the time of their delivery. Delivered to secure majority votes they failed to carry conviction
to the point of changing immediate action, and so in the small temporary sense they were failures.
In legal trials the jury is the real judge, although by our peculiar misapplication of the
term a different person entirely is called judge. In court the judge is in reality more often
merely the presiding officer. He oversees the observance of all the rules of court practice,
keeps lawyers within the regulations, instructs the jury, receives the decision from them,
and then applies the law. Every lawyer speaks--not to convince the judge--but to convince the
jury to render a decision in his favor.

Scholastic Debating. Choosing the Proposition. In school debating the proposition may be assigned
by the instructor or it may be chosen by him from a number submitted by the class. The class
itself may choose by vote a proposition for debate. In interscholastic debating the practice
now usually followed is for one school to submit the proposition and for the second school
to decide which side it prefers to support. In any method the aim should be to give neither
side any advantage over the other. The speakers upon the team may be selected before the question
of debate is known. It seems better, when possible, to make the subject known first and then
secure as speakers upon both sides, students who have actual beliefs upon the topic. Such personal
conviction always results in keener rivalry.

Time Limits. Since no debate of this kind must last too long, time restrictions must be agreed
upon. In every class, conditions will determine these terms. Three or four speakers upon each
side make a good team. If each is allowed six minutes the debate should come well within an
hour and still allow some time for voting upon the presentations. It should be distinctly understood
that a time limit upon a speaker must be observed by him or be enforced by the presiding officer.

The speakers upon one side will arrange among themselves the order in which they will speak
but there should be a clear understanding beforehand as to whether rebuttal speeches are to
be allowed.

Rebuttal Speeches. Rebuttal speeches are additional speeches allowed to some or all the speakers
of a debating team after the regular argumentative speeches have been delivered. In an extended
formal debate all the speakers may thus appear a second time. In less lengthy discussions only
some of them may be permitted to appear a second time. As the last speaker has the advantage
of making the final impression upon the judges it is usual to offset this by reversing the
order of rebuttal. In the first speeches the negative always delivers the last speech. Sometimes
the first affirmative speaker is allowed to follow with the single speech in rebuttal. If the
team consist of three speakers and all are allowed to appear in rebuttal the entire order is
as follows.

Preparation. The proposition should be decided on and the teams selected long enough in advance
to allow for adequate preparation. Every means should be employed to secure sufficient material
in effective arrangement. Once constituted, the team should consider itself a unit. Work should
be planned in conference and distributed among the speakers. At frequent meetings they should
present to the side all they are able to find. They should lay out a comprehensive plan of
support of their own side. They should anticipate the arguments likely to be advanced by the
other, and should provide for disposing of them if they are important enough to require refuting.
It is a good rule for every member of a debating team to know all the material on his side,
even though part of it is definitely assigned to another speaker.

This preliminary planning should be upon a definite method. A good outline to use, although
some parts may be discarded in the debate itself, is the following simple one.

  I. State the proposition clearly.
       1. Define the terms.
       2. Explain it as a whole.
 II. Give a history of the case.
       1. Show its present bearing or aspect.
III. State the issues.
 IV. Prove.
  V. Refute.
 VI. Conclude.

Finding the Issues. In debating, since time is so valuable, a speaker must not wander afield.
He must use all his ability, all his material to prove his contention. It will help him to
reject material not relevant if he knows exactly what is at issue between the two sides. It
was avoiding the issue to answer the charge that Charles I was a tyrant by replying that he
was a good husband. Unless debaters realize exactly what must be proven to make their position
secure, there will be really no debate, for the two sides will never meet in a clash of opinion.
They will pass each other without meeting, and instead of a debate they will present a series
of argumentative speeches. This failure to state issues clearly and to support or refute them
convincingly is one of the most common faults of all debating. In ordinary conversation a frequently
heard criticism of a discussion or speech or article is "But that was not the point at issue
at all." These issues must appear in the preliminary plans, in the finished brief, and in the
debate itself.

     The only point in issue between us is, how long after an
     author's death the State shall recognize a copyright in his
     representatives and assigns; and it can, I think, hardly be
     disputed by any rational man that this is a point which the
     legislature is free to determine in the way which may appear
     to be most conducive to the general good.

     THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY: Copyright, 1841

     Mr. President, the very first question that challenges our
     attention in the matter of a league of nations is the
     question of whether a war in Europe is a matter of concern
     to the United States. The ultraopponents of any league of
     nations assert that European quarrels and European battles
     are no concern of ours. If that be true, we may well pause
     before obligating ourselves to make them our concern. Is it
     true?

     SENATOR P.J. MCCUMBER: The League of Nations,
     1919

The best method of finding the issues is to put down in two columns the main contentions of
both sides. By eliminating those entries which are least important and those which have least
bearing upon the present case the issues may be reduced to those which the debate should cover.
Any possible attempt to cloud the issues on the part of the opposing side can thus be forestalled.
All the speakers on one side should participate in this analysis of the proposition to find
and state the issues.

The New York Tribune, by parallel columns, brought out these chief points of difference between
the Paris plan and Senator Knox's for the League of Nations.

THE KNOX PLAN                      THE PARIS PLAN

League formed of all, not          Under Article VII it is provided
a portion, of the nations of       that no state shall be
the world.                         admitted unless it is able to
                                   give guaranties of its intention
                                   to observe its international
                                   obligations and conform
                                   to the principles
                                   prescribed by the League
                                   in regard to it's naval and
                                   military forces and armaments.

War to be declared an              Article XVI provides that
international crime, and any       should any of the high
nation engaging in war, except     contracting parties break
in self-defense when               covenants under Article XII
actually attacked, to be punished  (relating to arbitration) it
by the world as an                 shall be deemed to have committed
international criminal.            an act of war against
                                   the League, which undertakes
                                   to exercise economic
                                   pressure; and it is to be the
                                   duty of the executive council
                                   to recommend what military
                                   or naval force the members
                                   of the League shall contribute
                                   to be used to protect
                                   the covenants of the League.

The Monroe Doctrine to             None of these matters is
be safeguarded; also our           mentioned specifically, but
immigration policy and our         President Wilson has said
right to expel aliens.             that the League will "extend
                                   the Monroe Doctrine to the
                                   whole world" and that domestic
                                   and internal questions
                                   are not a concern of the
                                   League.

Our right to maintain military     Article VIII says: "The
and naval establishments           executive council shall also
and coaling stations,              determine for the consideration
and our right to fortify the       and action of the several
Panama Canal and our               governments what military
frontiers to be safeguarded.       equipment and armament is
                                   fair and reasonable and in
                                   proportion to the scale of
                                   forces laid down in the program
                                   of disarmament, and
                                   these limits when adopted
                                   shall not be exceeded without
                                   the permission of the executive
                                   council."

An international court to          Article XIV provides for be empowered by the League    
the establishment of a "permanent to call upon the signatory         court of international
Powers to enforce its decrees      justice," but its powers are against unwilling states by
limited to hearing and determining force, economic pressure, or       "any matter otherwise.
The constitution        which the parties recognize of the League to provide,          as suitable
for submission to however, that decrees against      it for arbitration" under an American
Power shall be         Article XIII. enforced by the nations of this hemisphere, and decrees
against a country of the eastern hemisphere by the Powers of that hemisphere.

Team Work. With the plan agreed upon by the speakers, the brief made out, and the material
distributed, each speaker can go to work in earnest to prepare his single speech. The best
method has been outlined in this book. His notes should be accurate, clear, easily manipulated.
His quotations should be exact, authoritative. By no means should he memorize his speech. Such
stilted delivery would result in a series of formal declamations. With his mind stocked with
exactly what his particular speech is to cover, yet familiar enough with the material of his
colleagues to use it should he need it, the debater is ready for the contest.

Manipulating Material. The speakers on a side should keep all their material according to some
system. If cards are used, arguments to be used in the main debate might be arranged in one
place, material for rebuttal in another, quotations and statistics in still another. Then if
the other side introduces a point not anticipated it should be easy to find the refuting or
explaining material at once to counteract its influence in the next speech, if it should be
disposed of at once. If slips of paper are used, different colors might indicate different
kinds of material. Books, papers, reports, to be used should always be within available distance.
While a speaker for the other side is advancing arguments the speaker who will follow him should
be able to change, if necessary, his entire plan of defense or attack to meet the manoeuver.
He should select from the various divisions upon the table the material he needs, and launch
at once into a speech which meets squarely all the contentions advanced by his predecessor.
This instantaneous commandeering of material is likely to be most usual in rebuttal, but a
good debater must be able to resort to it at a second's notice.

The First Affirmative Speaker. The first affirmative speaker must deliver some kind of introduction
to the contentions which his side intends to advance. It is his duty to be concise and clear
in this. He must not use too much time. If the proposition needs defining and applying he must
not fail to do it. He must not give the negative the opportunity to explain and apply to its
own purposes the meaning of the proposition. He should state in language which the hearers
will remember exactly what the issues are. He can help his own side by outlining exactly what
the affirmative intends to prove. He may indicate just what portions will be treated by his
colleagues. He should never stop with merely introducing and outlining. Every speaker must
advance proof, the first as well as the others. If the preliminary statements by the first
affirmative speaker are clearly and convincingly delivered, and if he places a few strong,
supporting reasons before the judges, he will have started his side very well upon its course
of debating. The last sentences of his speech should drive home the points he has proved.

The First Negative Speaker. The first negative speaker either agrees with the definitions and
application of the proposition as announced by the first affirmative speaker or he disagrees
with them. If the latter, the mere statement of his disagreement is not sufficient. Contradiction
is not proof. He must refute the definition and application of the proposition by strong reasoning
and ample proof. If his side does not admit the issues as already presented he must explain
or prove them away and establish in their place the issues his side sees in the discussion.
When the two sides disagree concerning the issues there is a second proposition erected for
discussion at once and the argument upon this second matter may crowd out the attempted argument
upon the main proposition. To obviate such shifting many schools have the sides exchange briefs
or statements of issues before the debate so that some agreement will be reached upon essentials.

In addition to the matters just enumerated the first negative speaker should outline the plan
his side will follow, promising exactly what things will be established by his colleagues.
If he feels that the first affirmative speaker has advanced proofs strong enough to require
instant refutation he should be able to meet those points at once and dispose of them. If they
do not require immediate answering, or if they may safely be left for later refutation in the
regular rebuttal, he may content himself with simply announcing that they will be answered.
He should not allow the audience to believe that his side cannot meet them.

He must not give the impression that he is evading them. If he has to admit their truth, let
him frankly say so, showing, if possible, how they do not apply or do not prove all that is
claimed for them, or that though they seem strong in support of the affirmative the negative
side has still stronger arguments which by comparison refute at least their effect.

The first negative speaker should not stop with mere refutation. If the first affirmative has
advanced proofs, and the first negative disposes of them, the debate is exactly where it was
at the beginning. The negative speaker must add convincing arguments of his own. It is a good
thing to start with one of the strongest negative arguments in the material.

The Second Affirmative and Second Negative Speakers. The second affirmative and the second
negative speakers have very much the same kind of speech to make. Taking the immediate cues
from the preceding speaker each may at first pay some attention to the remarks of his opponent.
Here again there must be quickly decided the question already brought up by the first negative
speech--shall arguments be refuted at once or reserved for such treatment in rebuttal? When
this decision is made the next duty of each of these second speakers is to advance his side
according to the plan laid down by his first colleague. He must make good the advance notice
given of his team.

Each position of a debater has its peculiar tasks. The middle speaker must not allow the interest
aroused by the first to lag. If anything, his material and manner must indicate a rise over
the opening speech.

He must start at the place where the first speaker stopped and carry on the contention to the
place at which it has been agreed he will deliver it to the concluding speaker for his side.
If this connection among all the speeches of one side is quite plain to the audience an impression
of unity and coherence will be made upon them. This will contribute to the effect of cogent
reasoning. They will realize that instead of listening to a group of detached utterances they
have been following a chain of reasoning every link of which is closely connected with all
that precedes and follows.

The Concluding Affirmative Speaker. The concluding affirmative speaker must not devote his
entire speech to a conclusion by giving an extensive summary or recapitulation. He must present
arguments. Realizing that this is the last chance for original argument from his side he may
be assigned the very strongest argument of all to deliver, for the effect of what he says must
last beyond the concluding speech of the negative. It would likewise be a mistake for him to
do nothing more than argue in his concluding speech. Several persons have intervened since
his first colleague outlined their side and announced what they would prove. It is his duty
to show that the affirmative has actually done what it set out to do. By amplifying and diminishing
he may also show how the negative had not carried out its avowed intention of disproving the
affirmative's position and proving conclusively its own. The concluding speech for the affirmative
is an excellent test of a debater's ability to adapt himself to conditions which may have been
entirely unforeseen when the debate began, of his keenness in analyzing the strength of the
affirmative and exposing the weakness of the negative, of his power in impressing the arguments
of his colleagues as well as his own upon the audience, and of his skill in bringing to a well-rounded,
impressive conclusion his side's part in the debate.

The Concluding Negative Speaker. The concluding negative speaker must judge whether his immediate
predecessor, the concluding affirmative speaker, has been able to gain the verdict of the judges.
If he fears that he has, he must strive to argue that conviction away. He too must advance
proof finally to strengthen the negative side. He must make his speech answer to his first
colleague's announced scheme, or if some change in the line of development has been necessitated,
he must make clear why the first was replaced by the one the debaters have followed. If the
arguments of the negative have proved what it was declared they would, the last speaker should
emphasize that fact beyond any question in any one's mind. Finally he should save time for
a fitting conclusion. This brings the debate proper to a close.

Restrictions in Rebuttal. In rebuttal--if it be provided--the main restrictions are two. The
speeches are shorter than the earlier ones. No new lines of argument may be introduced. Only
lines of proof already brought forward may be considered. Since the speeches are shorter and
the material is restricted there is always the disposition to use rebuttal speeches for refutation
only. This is a mistake. Refute, but remember always that constructive argument is more likely
to win decisions than destructive. Dispose of as many points of the opponents as possible,
but reiterate the supporting reasons of your own. Many speakers waste their rebuttals by trying
to cover too many points. They therefore have insufficient time to prove anything, so they
fall back upon bare contradiction and assertion. Such presentations are mere jumbles of statements.
Choose a few important phases of the opposing side's contention. Refute them. Choose the telling
aspects of your own case. Emphasize them.

Manner in Debating. Be as earnest and convincing in your speeches as you can. Never yield to
the temptation to indulge in personalities. Recall that other speakers should never be mentioned
by name. They are identified by their order and their side, as "The first speaker on the affirmative"
or "The speaker who preceded me," or "My colleague," or "My opponent." Avoid using these with
tones and phrases of sarcasm and bitterness. Be fair and courteous in every way. Never indulge
in such belittling expressions as "No one understands what he is trying to prove. He reels
off a string of figures which mean nothing." Never indulge in cheap wit or attempts at satiric
humor.

Prepare so adequately, analyze so keenly, argue so logically, speak so convincingly, that even
when your side loses, your opponents will have to admit that you forced them to do better than
they had any idea they could.

CHAPTER XIII

SPEAKING UPON SPECIAL OCCASIONS

Speech-making in the Professions. If a student enter a profession in which speech-making is
the regular means of gaining his livelihood--as in law, religion, or lecturing--he will find
it necessary to secure training in the technical methods applying to the particular kind of
speech-making in which he will indulge. This book does not attempt to prepare any one for mastery
of such special forms. The student will, however, be helping himself if he examines critically
every delivery of a legal argument, sermon, or lecture he hears, for many of the rules illustrated
by them and the impressions made by their speakers, can be transferred as models to be imitated
or specimens to be avoided in his own more restricted and less important world.

Speaking upon Special Occasions. Every American may be called upon to speak upon some special
occasion. If he does well at his first appearance he may be invited or required by circumstances
to speak upon many occasions. The person who can interest audiences by effective delivery of
suitable material fittingly adapted to the particular occasion is always in demand. Within
the narrower confines of educational institutions the opportunities for the student to appear
before his schoolmates are as numerous as in real life. Some preliminary knowledge coupled
with much practice will produce deep satisfaction upon successful achievement and result in
rapid steps of self-development.

Without pretending to provide for all possible circumstances in which students and others may
be called upon to speak, this chapter will list some of the special occasions for which speeches
should be prepared.

Speeches of Presiding Officers. On practically all occasions there is a presiding officer whose
chief duty is to introduce to the audience the various speakers. The one great fault of speeches
of introduction is that they are too long. The introducer sincerely means not to consume too
much time, but in the endeavor to do justice to the occasion or the speaker he becomes involved
in his remarks until they wander far from his definite purpose. He wearies the audience before
the important speaker begins. An introducer should not become so unconscious of his real task
as to fall into this error. In other cases the fault is not so innocent. Many a person called
upon to introduce a speaker takes advantage of the chance to express his own opinions. He drops
into the discourtesy of using for his own ends a condition of passive attention which was not
created for him. One large audience which had assembled to hear a lecturer was kept from listening
to him while for twenty minutes the introducer aired his own pet theories. Of course members
of the audience discussed among themselves the inappropriateness of such remarks, but it is
doubtful whether any criticism reached the offender.

A newspaper recently had the courage to voice the feelings of audiences.

     It seems that a good deal of the time of the audience at the
     Coliseum the other night was taken by those who introduced
     the speakers of the evening. We are told in one account of
     the meeting that the audience was at times impatient of
     these preliminaries and even howled once or twice for those
     it had come to hear.... We are informed that all those
     introducing the speakers said something about not having
     risen to speak at length, and that one of them protested his
     inability to speak with any facility. Both these professions
     are characteristic of those introducing speakers of the
     evening. Yet, strangely enough, the same always happens.
     That is, the preliminaries wear the audience out before the
     people it came to hear can get at it.

In introducing a speaker never be too long-winded. Tactfully, gracefully, courteously, put
before the audience such facts as the occasion, the reason for the topic of the speech, the
fitness and appropriateness of the choice of the speaker, then present the man or woman. Be
extremely careful of facts and names. A nominating speaker at a great political convention
ruined the effect of a speech by confusedly giving several first names to a distinguished man.
It is embarrassing to a speaker to have to correct at the very beginning of his remarks a misstatement
made by the presiding officer. But a man from one university cannot allow the audience to identify
him with another. The author of a book wants its title correctly given. A public official desires
to be associated in people's minds with the department he actually controls.

The main purpose of a speech of introduction is to do for the succeeding speaker what the chapter
on beginning the speech suggested--to render the audience attentive and well-disposed, to introduce
the topic, and in addition to present the speaker.

Choosing a Theme. The speaker at a special occasion must choose the theme with due regard to
the subject and the occasion. Frequently his theme will be suggested to him, so that it will
already bear a close relation to the occasion when he begins its preparation. The next matter
he must consider with extreme care is the treatment. Shall it be serious, informative, argumentative,
humorous, scoffing, ironic? To decide this he must weigh carefully the significance of the
occasion. Selecting the inappropriate manner of treatment means risking the success of the
speech. Recall how many men and speeches you have heard criticized as being "out of harmony
with the meeting," or "not in spirit with the proceedings," and you will realize how necessary
to the successful presentation is this delicate adjustment of the speech to the mood of the
circumstances.

The After-dinner Speech. When men and women have met to partake of good food under charming
surroundings and have enjoyed legitimate gastronomic delights it is regrettable that a disagreeable
element should be added by a series of dull, long-winded, un-appropriate after-dinner speeches.
The preceding adjectives suggest the chief faults of those persons who are repeatedly asked
to speak upon such occasions. They so often miss the mark. Because after-dinner speaking is
so informal it is proportionally difficult. When called upon, a person feels that he must acknowledge
the compliment by saying something. This, however, is not really enough. He must choose his
theme and style of treatment from the occasion. If the toastmaster assign the topic he is safe
so far as that is concerned, but he must still be careful of his treatment.

A speaker at a dinner of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, in which membership is awarded for rank
in cultural as contrasted with practical, technical studies, seized upon the chance to deliver
a rather long, quite detailed legal explanation of the parole system for convicted offenders
against laws. At a dinner given by the Pennsylvania Society in a state far from their original
homes the members were praised to the skies for preserving the love of their native state and
marking their identity in a district so distant and different. This was quite appropriate for
an introduction but the speaker then turned abruptly to one of his political speeches and berated
the foreigner in America for not becoming at once an entirely made-over citizen. The speech
contradicted its own sentiments. A wrong emphasis was placed upon its material. A disquieting
impression was made upon the Pennsylvanians. At the conclusion they felt that they were guilty
for having kept the love of their native soil; according to the tone of the speaker they should
have accepted their new residence and wiped out all traces of any early ties.

An after-dinner speaker should remember that dinners are usually marks of sociability, goodfellowship,
congratulation, celebration, commemoration. Speeches should answer to such motives. The apt
illustration, the clever twist, the really good story or anecdote, the surprise ending, all
have their places here, if they are used with grace, good humor, and tact. This does not preclude
elements of information and seriousness, but such matters should be introduced skilfully, discussed
sparingly, enforced pointedly.

The Commemorative Speech. Besides dinners, other gatherings may require commemorative addresses.
These speeches are longer, more formal. The success of a debating team, the successful season
of an athletic organization, the termination of a civic project, the election of a candidate,
the celebration of an historic event, the tribute to a great man, suggest the kinds of occasions
in which commemorative addresses should be made.

Chosen with more care than the after-dinner speaker, the person on such an occasion has larger
themes with which to deal, a longer time for their development, and an audience more surely
attuned to sympathetic reception. He has more time for preparation also. In minor circumstances,
such as the first three or four enumerated in the preceding paragraph, the note is usually
congratulation for victory. Except in tone and length these speeches are not very different
from after-dinner remarks. But when the occasion is more dignified, the circumstances more
significant, addresses take on a different aspect. They become more soberly judicial, more
temperately laudatory, more feelingly impressive. At such times public speaking approaches
most closely to the old-fashioned idea of oratory, now so rapidly passing away, in its attempt
to impress upon the audience the greatness of the occasion in which it is participating. The
laying of a corner-stone, the completion of a monument or building, a national holiday, the
birthday of a great man, the date of an epoch-marking event, bring forth eulogistic tributes
like Webster's speech at Bunker Hill, Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, Secretary Lane's Flag Day
speech.

False Eloquence. The beginner will not have many opportunities of delivering such remarkable
addresses, but in his small sphere he will have chances to do similar things. He must beware
of several faults of which the unwary are usually guilty. Recognizing the wonderful eloquence
of the masterpieces of such kinds of address he may want to reproduce its effects by imitating
its apparent methods. Nothing could be worse. The style of the great eulogy, born of the occasion
and the speaker, becomes only exaggerated bombast and nonsense from the lips of a student.
Exaggeration, high sounding terms, flowery language, involved constructions, do not produce
eloquence in the speaker. They produce discomfort, often smiles of ridicule, in the audience.
Many a student intending to cover himself with glory by eulogizing the martyred McKinley or
the dead Roosevelt has succeeded only in covering himself with derision. Simplicity, straightforwardness,
fair statement, should be the aims of beginning speakers upon such occasions.

Speeches of Presentation and Acceptance. Standing between the two classes of speeches just
discussed are speeches of presentation and acceptance. In practically all circumstances where
such remarks are suitable there are present mingled feelings of celebration and commemoration.
There is joy over something accomplished, and remembrance of merit or success. So the person
making a speech of presentation must mingle the two feelings as he and the audience experience
them. Taking his cue from the tone of the occasion he must fit his remarks to that mood. He
may be as bright and sparkling and as amusing as a refined court jester. He may be as impressive
and serious as a judge. The treatment must be determined by the circumstances.

The speaker who replies must take his cue from the presenter. While the first has the advantage
of carrying out his plan as prepared, the second can only dimly anticipate the theme he will
express. At any rate he cannot so surely provide his beginning. That must come spontaneously
from the turn given the material by his predecessor, although the recipient may pass by a transition
to the remarks he prepared in advance.

The observations which obtain in the presentation and acceptance of a material object--as a
book, a silver tea set, a medal, an art gallery--apply just as well to the bestowal and acceptance
of an honor, such as a degree from a university, an office, an appointment as head of a committee
or as foreign representative, or membership in a society. Speeches upon such occasions are
likely to be more formal than those delivered upon the transfer of a gift. The bestower may
cite the reasons for the honor, the fitness of the recipient, the mutual honors and obligations,
and conclude with hopes of further attainments or services. The recipient may reply from a
personal angle, explaining not only his appreciation, but his sense of obligation to a trust
or duty, his methods of fulfilling his responsibilities, his modestly phrased hope or belief
in his ultimate success.

The Inaugural Speech. In this last-named respect the speech of the recipient of an honor is
closely related to the speech of a person inaugurated to office. This applies to all official
positions to which persons are elected or appointed. The examples which will spring into students'
minds are the inaugural speeches of Presidents of the United States. A study of these will
furnish hints for the newly installed incumbent of more humble positions. In material they
are likely to be retrospective and anticipatory. They trace past causes up to present effects,
then pass on to discuss future plans and methods. Every officer in his official capacity has
something to do. Newspaper articles will give you ideas of what officials should be doing.
The office holder at the beginning of his term should make clear to his constituency, his organization,
his class, his society, his school, just what he intends to try to do. He must be careful not
to antagonize possible supporters by antagonistic remarks or opinions. He should try to show
reason and expediency in all he urges. He should temper satisfaction and triumph with seriousness
and resolve. Facts and arguments will be of more consequence than opinions and promises. The
speech should be carefully planned in advance, clearly expressed, plainly delivered. Its statements
should be weighed, as everyone of them may be used later as reasons for support or attack.
To avoid such consequences the careful politician often indulges in glittering generalities
which mean nothing. A student in such conditions should face issues squarely, and without stirring
up unnecessary antagonism, announce his principles clearly and firmly. If he has changed his
opinion upon any subject he may just as well state his position so that no misunderstanding
may arise later.

In the exercise of his regular activities a person will have many opportunities to deliver
this kind of speech.

The Nominating Speech. Recommendation of himself by a candidate for office does not fall within
the plan of this book. Students, however, may indulge in canvassing votes for their favorite
candidates, and this in some instances, leads to public speaking in class and mass meetings,
assemblies, and the like. Of similar import is the nominating speech in which a member of a
society, committee, meeting, offers the name of his candidate for the votes of as many as will
indorse him. In nominating, it is a usual trick of arrangement to give first all the qualifications
of the person whose election is to be urged, advancing all reasons possible for the choice,
and uttering his name only in the very last words of the nominating speech. This plan works
up to a cumulative effect which should deeply impress the hearers at the mention of the candidate's
name.

In nominating speeches and in arguments supporting a candidate the deliverer should remember
two things. Constructive proof is better than destructive attack; assertion of opinion and
personal preference is not proof. If it seems necessary at times to show the fitness of one
candidate by contrast with another, never descend to personalities, never inject a tone of
personal attack, of cheap wit, of ill-natured abuse. If such practices are resorted to by others,
answer or disregard them with the courteous attention they deserve, no more. Do not allow yourself
to be drawn into any discussion remote from the main issue--the qualifications of your own
candidate. If you speak frequently upon such a theme--as you may during an extended campaign--notice
which of your arguments make the strongest impressions upon the hearers. Discard the weaker
ones to place more and more emphasis upon the convincing reasons. Never fail to study other
speakers engaged in similar attempts. American life every day provides you with illustrations
to study.

The Speech in Support of a Measure. When, instead of a candidate, you are supporting some measure
to be adopted, some reform to be instituted, some change to be inaugurated, your task is easier
in one respect. There will be less temptation to indulge in personal matters. You will find
it easier to adhere to your theme. In such attempts to mold public opinion--whether it be the
collective opinion of a small school class, or a million voters--you will find opportunities
for the inclusion of everything you know of the particular subject and of all human nature.
Convinced yourself of the worthiness of your cause, bend every mental and intellectual effort
to making others understand as you do, see as you do. If your reasoning is clear and converting,
if your manner is direct and sincere, you should be able to induce others to believe as you do.

The Persuasive Speech. In public speaking upon occasions when votes are to be cast, where reforms
are to be instituted, where changes are to be inaugurated, you have not finished when you have
turned the mental attitude, and done no more. You must arouse the will to act. Votes must be
cast for the measure you approve. The reform you urge must be financed at once. The change
must be registered. To accomplish such a purpose you must do more than merely prove; you must
persuade.

In the use of his power over people to induce them to noble, high-minded action lies the supreme
importance of the public speaker.

EXERCISES

1. Choose some recent event which you and your friends might celebrate by a dinner. As toastmaster,
deliver the first after-dinner remarks drawing attention to the occasion and introducing some
one to speak.

2. Deliver the after-dinner speech just introduced.

3. Introduce some other member of the class, who is not closely connected with the event being
celebrated, and who therefore is a guest.

4. Deliver this speech, being careful to make your remarks correspond to the preceding.

5. A debating team has won a victory. Deliver the speech such a victory deserves.

6. An athletic team has won a victory. As a non-participant, present the trophy.

7. An athletic team has finished a season without winning the championship. Speak upon such
a result.

8. The city or state has finished some great project. Speak upon its significance.

9. Address an audience of girls or women upon their right to vote.

10. Speak in approval of some recently elected official in your community.

11. Choose some single event in the history of your immediate locality. Speak upon it.

12. Deliver a commemorative address suitable for the next holiday.

13. Bring into prominence some man or woman connected with the past of your community.

14. An unheralded hero.

15. "They also serve who only stand and wait."

16. "Peace hath her victories no less renowned than war."

17. Deliver the speech to accompany the presentation of a set of books.

18. Present to your community some needed memorial park, building, or other monument.

19. Accept the gift for the community.

20. Challenge another class to debate.

21. Urge upon some organization support of some civic measure.

22. As a representative of the students present some request to the authorities.

23. A meeting has been called to hear you because of your association with some organization
or movement. Deliver the speech.

24. Some measure or movement is not being supported as it should be. A meeting of people likely
to be interested has been called. Address the meeting.

25. Appeal to your immediate associates to support some charitable work.

26. Some organization has recently started a new project. Speak to it upon its task.

27. An organization has successfully accomplished a new project. Congratulate it.

28. Some early associate of yours has won recognition or success or fame away from home. He
is about to return. Speak to your companions showing why they should honor him.

29. Choose some person or event worthy of commemoration. Arrange a series of detailed topics
and distribute them among members of the class. Set a day for their presentation.

30. Choose a chairman. On the appointed day have him introduce the topic and the speakers.

CHAPTER XIV

DRAMATICS

Difference between Public Speaking and Acting. In practically all the aspects of public speaking
you deliver your own thoughts in your own words. In dramatic presentation you deliver the words
already written by some one else; and in addition, while you are delivering these remarks you
speak as though you were no longer yourself, but a totally different person. This is the chief
distinction between speaking in public and acting. While you must memorize the lines you deliver
when you try to act like a character other than yourself, speeches in dramatic production are
not like usual memorized selections. Usually a memorized selection does not express the feelings
or opinions of a certain character, but is likely to be descriptive or narrative. Both prose
and verse passages contain more than the uttered words of a single person.

As preparation for exercise in dramatics, whether simple or elaborate, training in memorizing
and practice in speaking are extremely valuable. Memorizing may make the material grow so familiar
that it loses its interest for the speaker. Pupils frequently recite committed material so
listlessly that they merely bore hearers. Such a disposition to monotony should be neutralized
by the ability to speak well in public.

Naturalness and Sincerity. When you speak lines from a play inject as much naturalness and
sincerity into your delivery as you can command. Speak the words as though they really express
your own ideas and feelings. If you feel that you must exaggerate slightly because of the impression
the remark is intended to make, rely more upon emphasis than upon any other device to secure
an effect. Never slip into an affected manner of delivering any speech. No matter what kind
of acting you have seen upon amateur or professional stage, you must remember that moderation
is the first essential of the best acting. Recall what Shakespeare had Hamlet say to the players.

Character Delineation. In taking part in a play you must do more than simply recite words spoken
by some one other than yourself. You must really act like that person. This adds to the simple
delivery of speeches all those other traits by which persons in real life are different from
one another. Such complete identification of your personality with that of the person you are
trying to represent in a play is termed character delineation, or characterization.

You may believe that you cannot represent an Indian chief or a British queen, or an Egyptian
slave, or a secret service agent, but if you will recall your childish pastime of day-dreaming
you will see at once that you have quite frequently identified yourself with some one else,
and in that other character you have made yourself experience the strangest and most thrilling
adventures. When you study a rôle in a scene or play, use your imagination in that same manner.
In a short time it will be easy for you to think as that other character would. Then you have
become identified with him. The first step in your delineation has been taken.

Visualize in your mind's eye--your imagination--the circumstances in which that character is
placed in the play. See yourself looking, moving, acting as he would. Then talk as that character
would in those circumstances. Make him react as he would naturally in the situations in which
the dramatist has placed him.

Let us try to make this more definite. Suppose a boy is chosen to act the part of an old man.
An old man does not speak as rapidly as a boy does. He will have to change the speed of his
speech. But suppose the old man is moved to wrath, would his words come slowly? Would he speak
distinctly or would he almost choke?

The girl who is delineating a foreign woman must picture her accent and hesitation in speaking
English. She would give to her face the rather vacant questioning look such a woman would have
as the English speech flits about her, too quickly for her to comprehend all of it.

The girl who tries to present a British queen in a Shakespeare play must not act as a pupil
does in the school corridor. Yet if that queen is stricken in her feelings as a mother, might
not all the royal dignity melt away, and her Majesty act like any sorrowing woman?

EXERCISES

You are sitting at a table or desk. The telephone rings. You pick up the receiver. A person
at the other end invites you to dinner. Deliver your part of the conversation.

1. Speak in your own character.

2. Speak as a busy, quick-tempered old man in his disordered office.

3. Speak as a tired wife who hasn't had a relief for weeks from the drudgery of house-work.

4. Speak as a young debutante who has been entertained every day for weeks.

5. Speak as the office boy.

6. Speak as an over-polite foreigner.

7. Delineate some other kind of person.

Improvisations are here given first because such exercises depend upon the pupil's original
interpretation of a character. The pupil is required to do so much clear thinking about the
character he represents that he really creates it.

Dialogues. As it is easier to get two people to speak naturally than where more are involved
we shall begin conversation with dialogues. Each character will find the lines springing spontaneously
from the situation. In dramatic composition any speech delivered by a character is called a
line, no matter how short or long it is.

As you deliver the dialogues suggested by the exercises try to make your speeches sound natural.
Talk as real people talk. Make the remarks conversational, or colloquial, as this style is
also termed. What things will make conversation realistic? In actual talk, people anticipate.
Speakers do not wait for others to finish. They interrupt. They indicate opinions and impressions
by facial expression and slight bodily movements. Tone changes as feelings change.

Try to make your remarks convey to the audience the circumstances surrounding the dialogue.
Let the conversation make some point clear. Before you begin, determine in your own mind the
characterization you intend to present.

Situation. A girl buys some fruit from the keeper of a stand at a street corner.

What kind of girl? Age? Manner of speaking? Courteous? Flippant? Well-bred? Slangy? Working
girl? Visitor to town?

What kind of man? Age? American? Foreigner? From what country? Dialect? Disposition? Suspicious?
Sympathetic?

Weather? Season of year? Do they talk about that? About themselves? Does the heat make her
long for her home in the country? Does the cold make him think of his native Italy or Greece?
Will her remarks change his short, gruff answers to interested questions about her home? Will
his enthusiasm for his native land change her flippancy to interest in far-off romantic countries?
How would the last detail impress the change, if you decide to have one? Might he call her
back and force her to take a gift? Might she deliver an impressive phrase, then dash away as
though startled by her exhibition of sympathetic feeling?

These are mere suggestions. Two pupils might present the scene as indicated by these questions.
Two others might show it as broadly comic, and end by having the girl--at a safe distance--triumphantly
show that she had stolen a second fruit. That might give him the cue to end in a tirade of
almost inarticulate abuse, or he might stand in silence, expressing by his face the emotions
surging over him. And his feeling need not be entirely anger, either. It might border on admiration
for her amazing audacity, or pathetic helplessness, or comic despair, or determination to "get
even" next time.

Before you attempt to present any of the following suggestive exercises you should consider
every possibility carefully and decide definitely and consistently all the questions that may
arise concerning every detail.

EXERCISES

1. Let a boy come into the room and try to induce a girl (the mistress of a house) to have
a telephone installed. Make the dialogue realistic and interesting.

2. Let a girl demonstrate a vacuum cleaner (or some other appliance) to another girl (mistress
of a house).

3. Let a boy apply for a position to a man in an office.

4. Let a boy dictate a letter to a gum-chewing, fidgety, harum-scarum stenographer.

5. Let this stenographer tell the telephone girl about this.

6. Show how a younger sister might talk at a baseball or football game to her slightly older
brother who was coerced into bringing her with him.

7. Show a fastidious woman at a dress goods counter, and the tired, but courteous clerk. Do
not caricature, but try to give an air of reality to this.

8. Show how two young friends who have not seen each other for weeks might talk when they meet
again.

9. Deliver the thoughts of a pupil at eleven o'clock at night trying to choose the topic for
an English composition due the next morning. Have him talk to his mother, or father, or older
brother, or sister.

10. A foreign woman speaking and understanding little English, with a ticket to Springfield,
has by mistake boarded a through train which does not stop there. The conductor, a man, and
woman try to explain to her what she must do.

11. Let three different pairs of pupils represent the girl and the fruit seller cited in the
paragraphs preceding these exercises.

12. A young man takes a girl riding in a new automobile. Reproduce parts of the ride.

13. Two graduates of your school meet after many years in a distant place. Reproduce their
reminiscenses.

14. A woman in a car or coach has lost or misplaced her transfer or ticket. Give the conversation
between her and the conductor.

15. Let various pairs of pupils reproduce the conversations of patrons of moving pictures.

16. Suggest other characters in appropriate situations. Present them before the class.

Characters Conceived by Others. In all the preceding exercises you have been quite unrestricted
in your interpretation. You have been able to make up entirely the character you presented.
Except for a few stated details of sex, age, occupation, nature, no suggestions were given
of the person indicated. Delineation is fairly easy to construct when you are given such a
free choice of all possibilities. The next kind of exercise will involve a restriction to make
the acting a little more like the acting of a rôle in a regular play. Even here, however, a
great deal is left to the pupil's thought and decision.

How much chance there may be for such individual thought and decision in a finished play written
by a careful dramatist may be illustrated by Fame and the Poet by Lord Dunsany. One of the
characters is a Lieutenant-Major who calls upon a poet in London. Nothing is said about his
costume. In one city an actor asked the British consul. He said officers of the army do not
wear their uniforms except when in active service, but on the British stage one great actor
had by his example created the convention of wearing the uniform. In another city at exactly
the same time the author himself was asked the same question. He said that by no means should
the actor wear a uniform.

In the next exercises you are to represent characters with whom you have become acquainted
in books. You will therefore know something about their dispositions, their appearance, and
their actions. Your task will be to give life-like portraits which others will recognize as
true to their opinions of these same people. For all who have read the books the general outlines
will be identical. The added details must not contradict any of the traits depicted by the
authors. Otherwise they may be as original as you can imagine.

In the Odyssey, the great old Greek poem by Homer, the wandering hero, Odysseus (also called
Ulysses), is cast up by the sea upon a strange shore. Here he meets Nausicaa (pronounced Nau-si'-ca-a)
who offers to show him the way to the palace of her father, the Bang. But as she is betrothed
she fears that if she is seen in the company of an unknown man some scandalous gossip may be
carried to her sweetheart. So she directs that when they near the town Odysseus shall tarry
behind, allowing her to enter alone. In this naive incident this much is told in detail by
the poet. We are not told whether any gossip does reach the lover's ears. He does not appear
in the story. We are not told even his name. Nor are we told how either she or he behaved when
they first met, after she had conducted the stranger to the palace.

If you enact this scene of their meeting you will first have to find a name for him. You are
free to create all the details of their behavior and conversation. Was he angry? Was he cool
towards her? Had he heard a false account?

Before attempting any of the following exercises decide all the matters of interpretation as
already indicated in this chapter.

EXERCISES

1. Molly Farren tries to get news of Godfrey Cass from a Stable-boy. Silas Marner.

2. The two Miss Gunns talk about Priscilla Lammeter. Silas Marner.

3. The Wedding Guest meets one of his companions. The Ancient Mariner.

4. Nausicaa tells her betrothed about Odysseus. Odyssey.

5. Reynaldo in Paris tries to get information about Laertes. Hamlet.

6. Fred tells his wife about Scrooge and Crachit. A Christmas Carol.

7. Jupiter tells a friend of the finding of the treasure. The Gold Bug.

8. Two women who know David Copperfield talk about his second marriage. David Copperfield.

Memorized Conversations. You can approach still more closely to the material of a play if you
offer in speech before your class certain suitable portions from books you are reading or have
read. These selections may be made from the regular class texts or from supplementary reading
assignments. In studying these passages with the intention of offering them before the class
you will have to think about two things. First of all, the author has in all probability, somewhere
in the book, given a fairly detailed, exact description of the looks and actions of these characters.
If such a description does not occur in an extended passage, there is likely to be a series
of statements scattered about, from which a reader builds up an idea of what the character
is like. The pupil who intends to represent a person from a book or poem must study the author's
picture to be able to reproduce a convincing portrait.

The audience will pass over mere physical differences. A young girl described in a story as
having blue eyes may be acted by a girl with brown, and be accepted. But if the author states
that under every kind remark she made there lurked a slight hint of envy, that difficult suggestion
to put into a tone must be striven for, or the audience will not receive an adequate impression
of the girl's disposition.

So, too, in male characters. A boy who plays old Scrooge in A Christmas Carol may not be able
to look like him physically, but in the early scenes he must let no touch of sympathy or kindness
creep into his voice or manner.

It is just this inability or carelessness in plays attempting to reproduce literary works upon
the stage that annoys so many intelligent, well-read people who attend theatrical productions
of material which they already know. When Vanity Fair was dramatised and acted as Becky Sharp,
the general comment was that the characters did not seem like Thackeray's creations. This was
even more apparent when Pendennis was staged.

If you analyze and study characters in a book from this point of view you will find them becoming
quite alive to your imagination. You will get to know them personally. As you vizualize them
in your imagination they will move about as real people do. Thus your reading will take on
a new aspect of reality which will fix forever in your mind all you glance over upon the printed
page.

Climax. The second thing to regard in choosing passages from books to present before the class
is that the lines shall have some point. Conversation in a story is introduced for three different
purposes. It illustrates character. It exposes some event of the plot. It merely entertains.
Such conversation as this last is not good material for dramatic delivery. It is hardly more
than space filling. The other two kinds are generally excellent in providing the necessary
point to which dramatic structure always rises. You have heard it called a climax. So then
you should select from books passages which provide climaxes.

One dictionary defines climax: "the highest point of intensity, development, etc.; the culmination;
acme; as, he was then at the climax of his fortunes." In a play it is that turning-point towards
which all events have been leading, and from which all following events spring. Many people
believe that all climaxes are points of great excitement and noise. This is not so. Countless
turning-points in stirring and terrible times have been in moments of silence and calm. Around
them may have been intense suspense, grave fear, tremendous issues, but the turning-point itself
may have been passed in deliberation and quiet.

EXERCISES

1. Choose from class reading--present or recent--some passage in conversation. Discuss the
traits exhibited by the speakers. Formulate in a single statement the point made by the remarks.
Does the interest rise enough to make the passage dramatic?

2. Several members of the class should read certain passages from books, poems, etc. The class
should consider and discuss the characterization, interest, point, climax.

3. Read Chapters VI and VII of Silas Marner by George Eliot. Are the characters well marked?
Is the conversation interesting in itself? Does the interest rise? Where does the rise begin?
Is there any suspense? Does the scene conclude properly? If this were acted upon a stage would
any additional lines be necessary or desirable?

4. Read the last part of Chapter XI of Silas Marner. What is the point?

5. Memorize this dialogue and deliver it before the class. Did the point impress the class?

6. Consider, discuss, and test passages from any book which the members of the class know.

7. Present before the class passages from any of the following:

Dickens        A Christmas Carol
               A Tale of Two Cities
               David Copperfield
George Eliot   Silas Marner
               The Mill on the Floss
Scott          Ivanhoe
               Kenilworth
               The Lady of the Lake
Mark Twain     Huckleberry Finn
               The Prince and the Pauper
O. Henry       Short Stories
Thackeray      Vanity Fair
               Henry Esmond
               Pendennis
Kipling        Captains Courageous
               Stalkey and Co.
Hugo           Les Misérables
Tennyson       Idylls of the King
               The Princess
Arnold         Sohrab and Rustum
Stevenson      Treasure Island
Gaskell        Cranford
Carroll        Alice in Wonderland
Kingsley       Westward Ho!
Barrie         Sentimental Tommy

Characters in Plays. In acting regular plays you may find it necessary to follow either of
the preceding methods of characterization. The conception of a character may have to be supplied
almost entirely by some one outside the play. Or the dramatist may be very careful to set down
clearly and accurately the traits, disposition, actions of the people in his plays. In this
second case the performer must try to carry out every direction, every hint of the dramatist.
In the first case, he must search the lines of the play to glean every slightest suggestion
which will help him to carry out the dramatist's intention. Famous actors of characters in
Shakespeare's plays can give a reason for everything they show--at least, they should be able
to do so--and this foundation should be a compilation of all the details supplied by the play
itself, and stage tradition of its productions.

In early plays there are practically no descriptions of the characters. Questions about certain
Shakespeare characters will never be solved to the satisfaction of all performers. For instance,
how old is Hamlet in the tragedy? How close to madness did the dramatist expect actors to portray
his actions? During Hamlet's fencing match with Laertes in the last scene the Queen says, "He's
fat, and scant of breath." Was she describing his size, or meaning that he was out of fencing trim?

Shakespeare puts into the mouth of Julius Caesar a detailed description of the appearance and
manner of acting of one of the chief characters of the tragedy.

In As You Like It when the two girls are planning to flee to the forest of Arden, Rosalind
tells how she will disguise herself and act as a man. This indicates to the actress both costume
and behavior for the remainder of the comedy.

                         Were it not better,
    Because that I am more than common tall,
    That I did suit me all points like a man?
    A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,
    A boar-spear in my hand; and--in my heart
    Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will--
    We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,
    As many other mannish cowards have
    That do outface it with their semblances.

In many cases Shakespeare clearly shows the performer exactly how to carry out his ideas of
the nature of a man during part of the action. One of the plainest instances of this kind of
instruction is in Macbeth. The ambitious thane's wife is urging him on to murder his king.
Her advice gives the directions for the following scenes.

                              O never
    Shall sun that morrow see!
    Your face, my thane, is as a book where men
    May read strange matters. To beguile the time,
    Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,
    Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower,
    But be the serpent under't. He that's coming
    Must be provided for: and you shall put
    This night's great business into my dispatch;
    Which shall to all our nights and days to come
    Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.

Modern dramatists are likely to be much more careful in giving advice about characterization.
They insert a large number of stage directions covering this matter. Speed of delivery, tone
and inflection, as well as underlying feeling and emotion are minutely indicated.

     DUCHESS OF BERWICK

     Mr. Hopper, I am very angry with you. You have taken Agatha
     out on the terrace, and she is so delicate.

     HOPPER

     [At left of center] Awfully sorry, Duchess. We went out
     for a moment and then got chatting together.

     DUCHESS

     [At center] Ah, about dear Australia, I suppose?

     HOPPER

     Yes.

     DUCHESS

     Agatha, darling! [Beckons her over.]

     AGATHA

     Yes, mamma!

     DUCHESS

     [Aside] Did Mr. Hopper definitely--

     AGATHA

     Yes, mamma.

     DUCHESS

     And what answer did you give him, dear child?

     AGATHA

     Yes, mamma.

     DUCHESS

     [Affectionately] My dear one! You always say the right
     thing. Mr. Hopper! James! Agatha has told me everything. How
     cleverly you have both kept your secret.

     HOPPER

     You don't mind my taking Agatha off to Australia, then,
     Duchess?

     DUCHESS

     [Indignantly] To Australia? Oh, don't mention that
     dreadful vulgar place.

     HOPPER

     But she said she'd like to come with me.

     DUCHESS

     [Severely] Did you say that, Agatha?

     AGATHA

     Yes, mamma.

     DUCHESS

     Agatha, you say the most silly things possible.

Descriptions of Characters. In addition to definite directions at special times during the
course of the dialogue, modern writers of plays describe each character quite fully at his
first entrance into the action. This gives the delineator of each rôle a working basis for
his guidance. Such directions carefully followed out assure the tone for the whole cast. They
keep a subordinate part always in the proper relation to all others. They make certain the
impression of the whole story as a consistent artistic development. They prevent misunderstandings
about the author's aim. They provide that every character shall appear to be swayed by natural
motives. They remove from the performance all suggestions of unregulated caprice.

Dramatists vary in the exactness and minuteness of such descriptive character sketches, but
even the shortest and most general is necessary to the proper appreciation of every play, even
if it is being merely read. When a student is assimilating a rôle for rehearsing or acting,
these additions of the author are as important as the lines themselves.

EXERCISES

Analyze the following. Discuss the suitability of various members of the class for each part.
Which details do you think least essential?

1. He is a tall, thin, gaunt, withered, domineering man of sixty. When excited or angry he
drops into dialect, but otherwise his speech, though flat, is fairly accurate. He sits in an
arm-chair by the empty hearth working calculations in a small shiny black notebook, which he
carries about with him everywhere, in a side pocket.

2. When the curtain rises a man is seen climbing over the balcony. His hair is close cut; his
shirt dirty and blood-stained. He is followed by another man dressed like a sailor with a blue
cape, the hood drawn over his head. Moonlight.

3. Enter Dinah Kippen quickly, a dingy and defiant young woman carrying a tablecloth. She is
a nervous creature, driven half-mad by the burden of her cares. Conceiving life, necessarily,
as a path to be traversed at high speed, whenever she sees an obstacle in her way, whether
in the physical or in the moral sphere, she rushes at it furiously to remove it or destroy it.

4. Mrs. Rhead, a woman of nearly sixty, is sitting on the sofa, crocheting some lace, which
is evidently destined to trim petticoats. Her hair is dressed in the style of 1840, though
her dress is of the 1860 period.

5. The song draws nearer and Patricia Carleon enters. She is dark and slight, and has a dreamy
expression. Though she is artistically dressed, her hair is a little wild. She has a broken
branch of some flowering tree in her hand.

6. Enter a Neat-herd, followed by King Alfred, who is miserably clad and shivering from cold;
he carries a bow and a few broken arrows. A log fire is burning smokily in a corner of the hut.

7. Enter from the right Ito, the cynic philosopher, book in hand.

8. The rising of the curtain discovers the two Miss Wetherills--two sweet old ladies who have
grown so much alike it would be difficult for a stranger to tell the one from the other. The
hair of both is white, they are dressed much alike, both in some soft lavender colored material,
mixed with soft lace.

9. Newte is a cheerful person, attractively dressed in clothes suggestive of a successful follower
of horse races. He carries a white pot hat and tasselled cane. His gloves are large and bright.
He is smoking an enormous cigar.

10. She is young, slender, graceful; her yellow hair is in disorder, her face the color of
ruddy gold, her teeth white as the bones of the cuttle-fish, her eyes humid and sea-green,
her neck long and thin, with a necklace of shells about it; in her whole person something inexpressibly
fresh and glancing, which makes one think of a creature impregnated with sea-salt dipped in
the moving waters, coming out of the hiding-places of the rocks. Her petticoat of striped white
and blue, torn and discolored, falls only just below the knees, leaving her legs bare; her
bluish apron drips and smells of the brine like a filter; and her bare feet in contrast with
the brown color that the sun has given her flesh, are singularly pallid, like the roots of
aquatic plants. And her voice is limpid and childish; and some of the words that she speaks
seem to light up her ingenuous face with a mysterious happiness.

Studying Plays. In nearly every grade of school and college, plays are either read or studied.
The usual method of study is to read the lines of the play in rotation about the class, stopping
at times for explanations, definitions, impressions, general discussions. Such minute analysis
may extend to the preparation of outlines and diagrams. The methods used to get pupils to know
plays are almost as varied as teachers. After such analytical study has been pursued it is
always a stimulating exercise to get another impression of the play--not as mere poetry or
literature, but as acted drama.

This may be accomplished in a short time by very simple means. Pupils should memorize certain
portions and then recite them before the class. Neither costumes nor scenery will be required.
All the members of the class have in their minds the appearances of the surroundings and the
persons. What they need is to hear the speeches the dramatist put into the hearts and mouths
of his characters.

The best presentation would be the delivery of the entire play running through some four or
five class periods. If so much time cannot be allotted to this, only certain scenes need be
delivered. The teacher might assign the most significant ones to groups of pupils, allowing
each group to arrange for rehearsals before appearing before the class. In some classes the
pupils may be trusted to arrange the entire distribution of scenes and rôles. When their preliminary
planning has been finished, they should hand to the teacher a schedule of scenes and participants.

Whenever a play is read or studied, pupils will be attracted more by some passages than by
others. A teacher may dispense with all assignments. The pupils could be directed merely to
arrange their own groups, choose the scenes they want to offer, and to prepare as they decide.
In such a voluntary association some members of the class might be uninvited to speak with
any group. These then might find their material in prologue, epilogue, chorus, soliloquy, or
inserted songs. Nearly every play contains long passages requiring for their effect no second
speaker. Shakespeare's plays contain much such material. All the songs from a play would constitute
a delightful offering. Nothing in all the acted portion of Henry V is any better than the stirring
speeches of the Chorus. Hamlet has three great soliloquies for boys. Macbeth contains the sleepwalking
scene for girls. Milton's Comus is made up of beautiful poetic passages. Every drama studied
or read for school contains enough for every member of a class.

Some pupils may object that unless an exact preliminary assignment is made, two or more groups
may choose the same scene. Such a probable happening, far from being a disadvantage to be avoided,
is a decided advantage worthy of being purposely attempted. Could anything be more stimulating
than to see and hear two different casts interpret a dramatic situation? Each would try to
do better than the other. Each would be different in places. From a comparison the audience
and performers would have all the more light thrown upon what they considered quite familiar.

It would be a mistake to have five quartettes repeat the same scene over and over again. Yet
if twenty pupils had unconsciously so chosen, three presentations might be offered for discriminating
observation. Then some other portion could be inserted and later the first scene could be gone
through twice.

Assigning Rôles. Teacher and pupils should endeavor to secure variety of interest in rôles.
At first, assignments are likely to be determined by apparent fitness. The quiet boy is not
required to play the part of the braggart. The retiring girl is not expected to impersonate
the shrew. In one or two appearances it may be a good thing to keep in mind natural aptitude.

Then there should be a departure from this system. Educational development comes not only from
doing what you are best able to do, but from developing the less-marked phases of your disposition
and character. The opposite practice should be followed, at least once. Let the prominent class
member assume a rôle of subdued personality. Let the timid take the lead. Induce the silent
to deliver the majority of the speeches. You will be amazed frequently to behold the best delineations
springing from such assignments.

Such rehearsing of a play already studied should terminate the minute analysis in order to
show the material for what it is--actable drama. It will vivify the play again, and make the
characters live in your memory as mere reading never will. You will see the moving people,
the grouped situations, the developed story, the impressive climax, and the satisfying conclusion.

In dealing with scenes from a long play--whether linked or disconnected--pupils will always
have a feeling of incompleteness. In a full-length play no situation is complete in itself.
It is part of a longer series of events. It may finish one part of the action, but it usually
merely carries forward the plot, passing on the complication to subsequent situations.

Short Plays. To deal with finished products should be the next endeavor. There are thousands
of short plays suitable for class presentation in an informal manner. Most of them do not require
intensive study, as does a great Greek or English drama, so their preparation may go on entirely
outside the classroom. It should be frankly admitted that the exercises of delivering lines
"in character" as here described is not acting or producing the play. That will come later.
These preliminary exercises--many or few, painstaking or sketchy--are processes of training
pupils to speak clearly, interestingly, forcefully, in the imagined character of some other
person. The pupil must not wrongly believe that he is acting.

Though the delivery of a complete short play may seem like a performance, both participants
and audience must not think of it so. It is class exercise, subject to criticism, comment,
improvement, exactly as all other class recitations are.

Since the entire class has not had the chance to become familiar with all the short plays to
be presented, some one should give an introductory account of the time and place of action.
There might be added any necessary comments upon the characters. The cast of characters should
be written upon the board.

This exercise should be exactly like the preceding, except that it adds the elements of developing
the plot of the play, creating suspense, impressing the climax, and satisfactorily rounding
off the play. In order to accomplish these important effects the participants will soon discover
that they must agree upon certain details to be made most significant. This will lead to discussions
about how to make these points stand out. In the concerted attempt to give proper emphasis
to some line late in the play it will be found necessary to suppress a possible emphasis of
some line early in the action. To reinforce a trait of some person, another character may have
to be made more self-assertive.

To secure this unified effect which every play should make the persons involved will have to
consider carefully every detail in lines and stage directions, fully agree upon what impression
they must strive for, then heartily coöperate in attaining it. They must forget themselves
to remember always that "the play's the thing."

The following list will suggest short plays suitable for informal classroom training in dramatics.
Most of these are also general enough in their appeal to serve for regular production upon
a stage before a miscellaneous audience.

Aldrich, T.B.           Pauline Pavlovna
Baring, M.               Diminutive Dramas
Butler, E.P.            The Revolt
Cannan, G.               Everybody's Husband
Dunsany, Lord            Tents of the Arabs
                         The Lost Silk Hat
                         Fame and the Poet
Fenn and Pryce.          'Op-o-Me-Thumb
Gale, Z.                 Neighbors
Gerstenberg, A.          Overtones
Gibson, W. W.            Plays in Collected Works
Gregory, Lady.           Spreading the News
                         The Workhouse Ward
                         Coats, etc.
Houghton, S.             The Dear Departed
Jones, H. A.             Her Tongue
Kreymborg, A.            Mannikin and Minnikin
Moeller, P.              Pokey
Quintero, J. and S.A.   A Sunny Morning
Rice, C.                 The Immortal Lure
Stevens, T.W.            Ryland
Sudermann, H.            The Far-Away Princess
Tchekoff, A.             A Marriage Proposal
Torrence, R.             The Rider of Dreams
Walker, S.               Never-the-Less
Yeats, W.B.              Cathleen Ni Houlihan

Producing Plays. Any class or organization which has followed the various forms of dramatics
outlined thus far in this chapter will find it an easy matter to succeed in the production
of a play before an audience.

The Play. The first thing to decide upon is the play itself. This choice should be made as
far in advance of performance as is possible. Most of the work of producing a play is in adequate
preparation. Up to this time audiences have been members of the class, or small groups with
kindly dispositions and forbearing sympathies. A general audience is more critical. It will
be led to like or dislike according to the degree its interest is aroused and held. It will
be friendly, but more exacting. The suitability of the play for the audience must be regarded.
A comedy by Shakespeare which delights and impresses both performers and audience is much more
stimulating and educating than a Greek tragedy which bores them.

The Stage. The second determining factor is the stage. What is its size? What is its equipment?
Some plays require large stages; others fit smaller ones better. A large stage may be made
small, but it is impossible to stretch a small one.

Equipment for a school stage need not be elaborate. Artistic ingenuity will do more than reckless
expenditure. The simplest devices can be made to produce the best effects. The lighting system
should admit of easy modification. For example, it should be possible to place lights in various
positions for different effects. It should be possible to get much illumination or little.

Scenery. No scenery should be built when the stage is first erected. If a regular scene painter
furnishes the conventional exterior, interior, and woodland scenery, the stage equipment is
almost ruined for all time. It is ridiculous that a lecturer, a musician, a school principal,
and a student speaker, should appear before audiences in the same scenery representing a park
or an elaborate drawing-room. The first furnishings for a stage should be a set of beautiful
draped curtains. These can be used, not only for such undramatic purposes as those just listed,
but for a great many plays as well.

No scenery should be provided until the first play is to be presented. Certain plays can be
adequately acted before screens arranged differently and colored differently for changes. When
scenery must be built it should be strongly built as professional scenery is. It should also
be planned for future possible manipulation. Every director of school dramatics knows the delight
of utilizing the same material over and over again. Here is one instance. An interior set,
neutral in tones and with no marked characteristics of style and period, was built to serve
in Acts I and V of A Midsummer Night's Dream. Hangings, furniture, costumes gave it the proper
appearance. Later it was used in Ulysses. It has also housed Molière's Doctor in Spite of Himself
(Le Medecin Malgré Lui) and The Wealthy Upstart (Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme), Carrion and Aza's
Zaragüeta, Sudermann's The Far-Away Princess, Houghton's The Dear Departed. The wooden frames
on the rear side were painted black, the canvas panels tan, to serve in Twelfth Night for the
drinking scene, Act II, scene 3. With Greek shields upon the walls it later pictured the first
scene of The Comedy of Errors. With colorful border designs attached and oriental furniture
it set a Chinese play.

A definite series of dimensions should be decided upon, and all scenery should be built in
relation to units of these sizes. As a result of this, combinations otherwise impossible can
be made. Beginners should avoid putting anything permanent upon a stage. The best stage is
merely space upon which beautiful pictures may be produced. Beware of adopting much lauded
"new features" such as cycloramas, horizonts, until you are assured you need them and can actually
use them. In most cases it is wise to consult some one with experience.

In considering plays for presentation you will have to think of whether your performers and
your stage will permit of convincing production. Remembering that suggestion is often better
than realism, and knowing that beautiful curtains and colored screens are more delightful to
gaze upon than cheap-looking canvas and paint, and knowing that action and costume produce
telling effects, decide what the stage would have to do for the following scenes.

EXERCISES

1. Read scene 2 of Comus by Milton. Should the entire masque be acted out-of-doors? If presented
on an indoors stage what should the setting be? Inside the palace of Comus? How then do the
Brothers get in? How do Sabrina and her Nymphs arise? From a pool, a fountain? Might the stage
show an exterior? Would the palace be on one side? The edge of the woods on the other? Would
the banks of the river be at the rear? Would such an arrangement make entrances, exits, acting,
effective? Explain all your opinions.

Read one of the following. Devise a stage setting for it. Describe it fully. If you can, make
a sketch in black and white or in color, showing it as it would appear to the audience. Or
make a working plan, showing every detail. Or construct a small model of the set, making the
parts so that they will stand. Or place them in a box to reproduce the stage. Use one-half
inch to the foot.

2. A Midsummer Night's Dream, scene 1. Interior? Exterior? Color? Lighting?

3. Hamlet, Act I, scene 5. Castle battlements? A graveyard? Open space in country some distance
from castle?

4. Comus, scene 3.

5. The Tempest, Act I, scene 1.

6. Twelfth Night, Act II, scene 3.

7. Romeo and Juliet, Act I, scene I.

8. Julius Caesar, Act III, scene 2.

9. In a long, high-vaulted room, looking out upon a Roman garden where the cypresses rise in
narrowing shafts from thickets of oleander and myrtle, is seated a company of men and women,
feasting.

WILLIAM SHARP: The Lute-Player

10. A room, half drawing-room, half study, in Lewis Davenant's house in Rockminister. Furniture
eighteenth century, pictures, china in glass cases. An April afternoon in 1860.

GEORGE MOORE: Elizabeth Cooper

11. An Island off the West of Ireland. Cottage kitchen, with nets, oil-skins, spinning wheel,
some new boards standing by the wall, etc.

J.M. SYNGE: Riders to the Sea

12. Loud music. After which the Scene is discovered, being a Laboratory or Alchemist's work-house.
Vulcan looking at the registers, while a Cyclope, tending the fire, to the cornets began to sing.

BEN JONSON: Mercury Vindicated

13. Rather an awesome picture it is with the cold blue river and the great black cliffs and
the blacker cypresses that grow along its banks. There are signs of a trodden slope and a ferry,
and there's a rough old wooden shelter where passengers can wait; a bell hung on the top with
which they call the ferryman.

CALTHROP AND BARKER: The Harlequinade

Long before any play is produced there should be made a sketch or plan showing the stage settings.
If it is in color it will suggest the appearance of the actual stage. One important point is
to be noted. Your sketch or model is merely a miniature of the real thing. If you have a splotch
of glaring color only an inch long it will appear in the full-size setting about two feet long.
A seemingly flat surface three by five inches in the design will come out six by ten feet behind
the footlights.

Casting the Play. When the play is selected, the rôles must be cast. To select the performers,
one of many different methods may be followed. The instructor of the class or the director
of the production may assign parts to individuals. When this person knows the requirements
of the rôles and the abilities of the members, this method always saves time and effort. By
placing all the responsibility upon one person it emphasizes care in choosing to secure best
results. At times a committee may do the casting. Such a method prevents personal prejudice
and immature judgments from operating. It splits responsibility and requires more time than
the first method. It is an excellent method for seconding the opinions of a director who does
not know very well the applicants for parts. The third method is by "try-outs." In this the
applicants show their ability. This may be done by speaking or reciting before an audience,
a committee, or the director. It may consist of acting some rôle. It may be the delivery of
lines from the play to be acted. It may be in a "cast reading" in which persons stand about
the stage or room and read the lines of characters in the play. If there are three or four
applicants for one part, each is given a chance to act some scene. In this manner all the rôles
are filled.

There are two drawbacks to this scheme which is the fairest which can be devised. It consumes
a great deal of time. Some member of the class or organization best fitted to play a rôle may
not feel disposed to try for it. Manifestly he should be the one selected. But it appears unfair
to disregard the three boys who have made the effort while he has done nothing. Yet every rôle
should be acted in the very best manner. For the play's sake, the best actor should be assigned
the part. A pupil may try for a part for which he is not at all suited, while he could fill
another rôle better than any one who strives to get it.

In a class which has been trained in public speaking or dramatics as this book suggests, it
should be no difficult task to cast any play, whether full-length or one act. Performers must
always be chosen because of the possible development of their latent abilities rather than
for assured attainments.

These qualities must be sought for in performers of roles--obedience, dependableness, mobility,
patience, endurance.

Rehearsing. A worthy play which is well cast is an assured success before its first rehearsal.

The entire group should first study the whole play under the director's comment. It is best
to have each actor read his own part. The behavior of a minor character in the second act may
depend upon a speech in the first. The person playing that rôle must seize upon that hint for
his own interpretation.

It might be a good thing to have every person "letter perfect," that is, know all his speeches,
at the first rehearsal. Practically, this never occurs. Reading from the book or the manuscript,
a performer "walks through" his part, getting at the same time an idea of where he is to stand,
how to move, how to speak, what to do, where to enter, when to cross the stage. All such directions
he should jot down upon his part. Then memorizing the lines will fix these stage directions
in his mind. He will be assimilating at the same time lines and "business." "Business" on the
stage is everything done by a character except speaking lines.

At all rehearsals the director is in absolute charge. His word is final law. This does not
mean that members of the cast may not discuss things with him, and suggest details and additions.
They must be careful to choose a proper time to do such things. They should never argue, but
follow directions. Time outside rehearsals may be devoted to clearing up points. Of course
an actor should never lose his temper. Neither should the director. Both of these bits of advice
are frequently almost beyond observation of living human beings. Yet they are the rules.

Rehearsals should be frequent rather than long. Acts should be rehearsed separately. Frequently
only separate portions should be repeated. Combinations should be made so as not to keep during
long waits characters with only a few words. Early portions will have to be repeated more frequently
than later ones to allow the actors to get into their characterizations. Tense, romantic, sentimental,
comic scenes may have to be rehearsed privately until they are quite good enough to interest
other members of the cast.

The time for preparation will depend upon general ability of the cast, previous training, the
kind of play, the amount of leisure for study and rehearsing. In most schools a full-length
play may be crowded into four weeks. Six or seven weeks are a better allowance.

During first rehearsals changes and corrections should be made when needed. Interruptions should
be frequent. Later there should be no interruptions. Comments should be made at the end of
a scene and embodied in an immediate repetition to fix the change in the actors' minds. Other
modifications should be announced before rehearsal, and embodied in the acting that day.

The acting should be ready for an audience a week before the date set for the performance.
During the last rehearsals, early acts should be recalled and repeated in connection with later
ones, so that time and endurance may be counted and estimated. During these days rehearsals
must go forward without any attention from the director. He must be giving all his attention
to setting, lighting, costumes, properties, furniture, and the thousand and one other details
which make play producing the discouraging yet fascinating occupation it is. Such repetition
without constant direction will develop a sense of independence and coöperation in the actors
and assistants which will show in the enthusiasm and ease of the performance. Stage hands and
all other assistants must be trained to the same degree of reliability as the hero and heroine.
Nothing can be left to chance. Nothing can be unprovided until the last minute. The dress rehearsal
must be exactly like a performance, except that the audience is not present, or if present,
is a different one. In schools, an audience at the dress rehearsal is usually a help to the
amateur performers.

Results. A performance based on such principles and training as here suggested should be successful
from every point of view.

The benefits to the participants are many. They include strengthening of the power to memorize,
widening of the imagination through interpretation of character, familiarity with a work of
art, training in poise, utilization of speaking ability, awakening of self-confidence, and
participation in a worthy coöperative effort.

In a broader sense such interest in good, acted plays is an intellectual stimulus. As better
plays are more and more effectively presented the quality of play production in schools will
be improved, and both pupils and communities will know more and more of the world's great dramatic
literature.

APPENDICES

APPENDIX A

Additional Exercises in Exposition

1. The value of public speaking.

2. How Lincoln became a great speaker.

3. Studies in a good school course.

4. Purposes of studying geometry.

5. Explain the reasons for studying some subject.

6. An ideal school.

7. Foreign language study.

8. Forming habits.

9. Sailing against the wind.

10. How to play some game. Give merely the rules or imagine the game being played.

11. Difference between football in America and in England.

12. Exercise or athletics?

13. Results of military training.

14. The gambling instinct.

15. Parliamentary practice.

16. How to increase one's vocabulary.

17. Is the story of The Vicar of Wakefield too good to be true?

18. The defects of some book.

19. Reading fiction.

20. Magazines in America.

21. Explain fully what a novel is, or a farce, or an allegory, or a satire.

22. Why slang is sometimes justifiable.

23. A modern newspaper.

24. Select two foreign magazines. Compare and contrast them.

25. Essential features of a good short story.

26. Why evening papers offer so many editions.

27. How to find a book in a public library.

28. The difference between public speaking and oratory.

29. Public speaking for the lawyer, the clergyman, the business man.

30. Qualities of a book worth reading.

31. Some queer uses of English.

32. History in the plays of Shakespeare.

33. How to read a play.

34. Mistakes in books or plays.

35. Defects of translations.

36. "One touch of nature makes the whole world kin."

37. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure."

38. "You never miss the water till the well runs dry."

39. "Penny wise, pound foolish."

40. Select any proverb. Explain it.

41. Choose a short quotation from some poem. Explain it.

42. Explain some technical operation.

43. Explain some mechanical process.

44. A range factory.

45. Making electric bulbs.

46. How moving pictures are made and reproduced.

47. Explain some simple machine.

48. A new application of electricity.

49. Weather forecasting.

50. Scientific or practical value of polar expeditions.

51. Changes of the tide.

52. An eclipse.

53. The principle of some such appliance as the thermometer, the barometer, the microscope,
the air-brake, the block signal.

54. Developing a negative.

55. How the player piano is operated.

56. How the cash register prevents dishonesty.

57. How a new fruit is produced--as seedless orange.

58. Mimeographing.

59. The value of Latin for scientific terms.

60. The value of certain birds, worms, insects.

61. The life history of some queer animal, or insect, or plant.

62. How accuracy is secured.

63. The human eye and the camera.

64. The fireless cooker.

65. Choose some half dozen terms from any trade or business and explain them. To sell short,
margin, bull, bear, lamb. Proscenium, apron, flies, baby spot, strike. Fold in eggs, bring
to a boil, simmer, percolate, to French. File, post, carry forward, remit, credit, receivership.
Baste, hem, rip, overcast, box pleat, batik, Valenciennes.

66. Building a musical program.

67. Commercial art.

68. Catch phrases in advertising.

69. Principles of successful advertising.

70. The Linotype machine.

71. How I made my first appearance as a public speaker.

72. Real conversation.

73. Mere talk.

74. The business woman.

75. A slump in a certain business or industry.

76. The Red Cross in war.

77. The Red Cross in peace.

78. Compare the principles of two political parties.

79. A fire alarm.

80. Why automobiles are licensed.

81. The powers and duties of some city or county official.

82. The advantages that this locality offers for certain industries or kinds of agriculture.

83. Society fads.

84. The ideal office holder.

85. New systems of government.

86. Various forms of socialism.

87. Collecting a debt by law.

88. Explain some legal procedure as suggested by some term, as mandamus, injunction, demurrer,
habeas corpus, nolle prosequi.

89. Explain the composition and work of the Grand Jury.

90. The efficiency expert.

91. A new profession.

92. The advantages of a trolley car with both entrance and exit at the front end.

93. Labor-saving devices.

94. A supercargo.

95. Scientific shop management.

96. Hiring and discharging employees.

97. Applying for a business position.

98. Causes of some recent labor strike.

99. A labor union operates as a trust.

100. Efficiency in the kitchen.

101. Speeding up the work.

102. Planning a factory.

103. Making cheap automobiles.

104. Uses of paper.

105. New methods of furnishing houses.

106. Making the home beautiful.

107. New building materials.

108. Designing and building a boat.

109. The lay-out of a shipyard.

110. Rules for planting.

111. City government.

112. Better methods of city government.

113. How a trial is conducted.

114. The juvenile court.

115. Post office savings banks.

116. Geographic advantages of this locality.

117. Results of irrigation.

118. How the farmer controls world prices.

119. Relation between some distant event and the price of some article in the corner store.

120. New businesses in America with their reasons for existence.

121. The latest improvement in this locality.

122. Why certain cities are destined to increase in population.

123. Model homes.

124. Housing the inhabitants of large cities.

125. The operation of a subway.

126. Automobile trucks instead of freight trains.

127. How Lincoln became President.

128. Why Webster did not become President.

129. The dead-letter office.

130. The Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of Great Britain.

131. How the United States secured Porto Rico.

132. A free trade policy.

133. Commercial reciprocity.

134. The protective tariff.

135. Explain the application of some tax, as income, single, inheritance.

136. How the constitutionality of a law is determined.

137. How laws are made by Congress.

138. The Congressional Record.

139. The Monroe Doctrine.

140. The attitude of foreign nations toward the Monroe Doctrine.

141. Differences between the Chinese and the Japanese.

142. The failure of the Hague Tribunal.

143. The part of the United States in a league of nations.

144. Reasons for the conditions in Mexico.

145. Our country's duty toward Mexico.

146. The so-called Yellow Peril.

147. Trans-oceanic air travel.

148. Evolution of the airship.

149. The geodetic survey.

150. The census bureau.

APPENDIX B

Additional Exercises in Argumentation

1. Find in a magazine or newspaper some article in which conviction is the prime factor.

2. Find in a magazine or newspaper some article in which persuasion is most used.

3. Give examples from recent observation of discussions which were not argument as the term
is used in this book.

4. Explain how arguments upon a topic of current interest would differ in material and treatment
for three kinds of audiences.

5. The education of the American negro should be industrial not cultural.

6. To the Cabinet of the United States there should be added a Secretary of Education with
powers to control all public education.

7. Separate high schools for boys and girls should be maintained.

8. It is better to attend a small college than a large one.

9. Women should be eligible to serve as members of the school board.

10. Pupils should be marked by a numerical average rather than by a group letter.

11. At least two years of Latin should be required for entrance to college.

12. The honor system should be introduced in all examinations in high schools and colleges.

13. The study of algebra should be compulsory in high school.

14. Courses in current topics, based upon material in newspapers, should be offered in all
high schools.

15. Every high school should require the study of local civics or local industries.

16. Regular gymnastic work is more beneficial than participation in organized athletics.

17. Girls should study domestic science.

18. The kindergarten should be removed from our educational system.

19. Coeducation in schools and colleges is better than segregation.

20. Secret societies should be prohibited in high schools.

21. A magazine or newspaper which copies material from one in which it first appears should
be required by law to compensate the author.

22. Moving picture exhibitions should be more strictly regulated.

23. An exposition produces decided advantages for the city in which it is held.

24. A county fair is a decided benefit to a rural community.

25. All young men in this country should receive military training for a period of one year.

26. This city should provide employment for the unemployed.

27. Motor delivery trucks should be substituted for horse-drawn wagons.

28. Labor unions are justified in insisting upon the re-employment of members discharged for
a cause which they deem unjust.

29. Farmers should study scientific agriculture.

30. Capital and labor should be required by law to settle their disputes by appeals to a legally
constituted court of arbitration whose decisions should be enforced.

31. In time of peace no member of a labor union should be a member of a regularly organized
military force.

32. Overtime work should be paid for at the same rate as regular work.

33. All work should be paid for according to the amount done rather than by time.

34. Employers are justified in insisting upon the "open shop."

35. Trade unions are justified in limiting the number of persons allowed to enter a trade.

36. This state should establish a minimum working wage for women.

37. The street railway company should pave and keep in repair all streets in which its cars
are operated.

38. More definite laws concerning the sale of milk should be passed.

39. This city should institute government by a commission.

40. This city should institute and maintain an adequate system of public playgrounds.

41. This city should provide more free recreations for its citizens.

42. City government should be conducted by a highly paid municipal expert hired for the purpose
of controlling city affairs exactly as he would a large business organization.

43. A public building for community interests is a better memorial for a city to erect than
the usual monument or statue.

44. Voting machines should be used in all cities.

45. All public utilities should be owned and operated by the city.

46. Judges should not be elected by popular vote.

47. A representative should vote according to the opinions of his constituency.

48. This state should provide old-age pensions.

49. Laws should be passed making it impossible to dispose of more than one million dollars by will.

50. The pure food law should be strictly enforced.

51. Every state should have a state university in which tuition for its inhabitants should
be absolutely free.

52. The Governor of a state should not have the pardoning power.

53. No children below the age of sixteen should be allowed to work in factories.

54. Laws concerning the sale of substitutes for butter should be made more stringent.

55. Sunday closing laws should be repealed.

56. The railroads of the United States should be allowed to pool their interests.

57. The present method of amending the Constitution of the United States should be changed.

58. This government should insist upon a strict adherence to the Monroe Doctrine.

59. The American Indian has been unjustly treated.

60. Railroads should be under private ownership but subject to government control.

61. An educational test should be required of all persons desiring to enter this country.

62. The United States should own and control the coal mines of the country.

63. Members of the House of Representatives should be chosen to represent industries, workers,
and professions, rather than geographical divisions.

64. Woman suffrage carries with it the right to hold office except where expressly forbidden
in existing laws and constitutions.

65. Instead of an extension of suffrage to all women there should be a restriction from the
previous inclusion of all men.

66. All raw materials should be admitted to this country free of duty.

67. All departments of the government should be under the Civil Service Act.

68. The Civil War pension policy was a wise one.

69. The United States should build and maintain a large navy.

70. A high protective tariff keeps wages high.

71. Letter postage should be reduced to one cent.

72. Laws governing marriage and divorce should be made uniform by Congress.

73. The present restriction upon Chinese immigration should be modified to admit certain classes.

74. The standing army of the United States should be increased.

75. This government should establish a system of shipping subsidies.

76. Repeated failure to vote should result in the loss of the right of suffrage.

77. The United States should not enter into any league of nations.

78. The defeated central powers of Europe should be admitted to full membership in the League
of Nations.

79. Japan should be prevented from owning or controlling any territory upon the continent which
belonged to China.

80. Great Britain should establish Egypt as an independent country.

81. Ireland should be organized as a Dominion similar to Canada and Australia.

82. The United States should establish a protectorate over Mexico.

83. This country should demand from Germany an indemnity equal to our expenses in the war.

84. The former Kaiser of Germany and his state officials responsible for the World War of 1914
should be tried by an international court.

85. All European nations should agree to disarmament.

86. Foreign missions should be discontinued.

87. The Jews of the world should colonize Palestine.

88. Commercial reciprocity should be established between the United States and South America.

89. This country has no need to fear any aggression from any Asiatic race.

90. The government system of Great Britain is more truly representative than that of the United
States.

91. A railroad should pay ten thousand dollars to the family of any employee who meets death
by accident while on duty.

92. There is no such thing possible as "Christian warfare."

93. Vivisection should be prohibited.

94. The dead should be cremated.

95. Cigarettes should not be sold to boys under eighteen.

96. Children under fourteen should not be allowed to appear upon the stage.

97. Socialism is the best possible solution of all labor problems.

