Up and walked to White Hall, to the Chappell, where preached one Dr. Lewes, said heretofore
to have been a great witt; but he read his sermon every word, and that so brokenly and so low,
that nobody could hear at any distance, nor I anything worth hearing that sat near.  But, which
was strange, he forgot to make any prayer before sermon, which all wonder at, but they impute
it to his forgetfulness. After sermon a very fine anthem; so I up into the house among the
courtiers, seeing the fine ladies, and, above all, my Lady Castlemaine, who is above all, that
only she I can observe for true beauty.  The King and Queen being set to dinner I went to Mr.
Fox's, and there dined with him.  Much genteel company, and, among other things, I hear for
certain that peace is concluded between the King of France and the Pope; and also I heard the
reasons given by our Parliament yesterday to the King why they dissent from him in matter of
Indulgence, which are very good quite through, and which I was glad to hear.  Thence to my
Lord Sandwich, who continues with a great cold, locked up; and, being alone, we fell into discourse
of my uncle the Captain's death and estate, and I took the opportunity of telling my Lord how
matters stand, and read his will, and told him all, what a poor estate he hath left, at all
which he wonders strangely, which he may well do.  Thence after singing some new tunes with
W. Howe I walked home, whither came Will.  Joyce, whom I have not seen here a great while,
nor desire it a great while again, he is so impertinent a coxcomb, and yet good natured, and
mightily concerned for my brother's late folly in his late wooing at the charge to no purpose,
nor could in any probability a it.  He gone, we all to bed, without prayers, it being washing
day to-morrow.

2nd.  Up early and by water with Commissioner Pett to Deptford, and there took the Jemmy yacht
(that the King and the Lords virtuosos built the other day) down to Woolwich, where we discoursed
of several matters both there and at the Ropeyard, and so to the yacht again, and went down
four or five miles with extraordinary pleasure, it being a fine day, and a brave gale of wind,
and had some oysters brought us aboard newly taken, which were excellent, and ate with great
pleasure.  There also coming into the river two Dutchmen, we sent a couple of men on board
and bought three Hollands cheeses, cost 4d. a piece, excellent cheeses, whereof I had two and
Commissioner Pett one.  So back again to Woolwich, and going aboard the Hulke to see the manner
of the iron bridles, which we are making of for to save cordage to put to the chain, I did
fall from the shipside into the ship (Kent), and had like to have broke my left hand, but I
only sprained some of my fingers, which, when I came ashore I sent to Mrs. Ackworth for some
balsam, and put to my hand, and was pretty well within a little while after.  We dined at the
White Hart with several officers with us, and after dinner went and saw the Royal James brought
down to the stern of the Docke (the main business we came for), and then to the Ropeyard, and
saw a trial between Riga hemp and a sort of Indian grass, which is pretty strong, but no comparison
between it and the other for strength, and it is doubtful whether it will take tarre or no.
So to the yacht again, and carried us almost to London, so by our oars home to the office,
and thence Mr. Pett and I to Mr. Grant's coffee-house, whither he and Sir J. Cutler came to
us and had much discourse, mixed discourse, and so broke up, and so home where I found my poor
wife all alone at work, and the house foul, it being washing day, which troubled me, because
that tomorrow I must be forced to have friends at dinner.  So to my office, and then home to
supper and to bed.

3rd (Shrove Tuesday).  Up and walked to the Temple, and by promise calling Commissioner Pett,
he and I to White Hall to give Mr. Coventry an account of what we did yesterday.  Thence I
to the Privy Seal Office, and there got a copy of Sir W. Pen's grant to be assistant to Sir
J. Minnes, Comptroller, which, though there be not much in it, yet I intend to stir up Sir
J. Minnes to oppose, only to vex Sir W. Pen.  Thence by water home, and at noon, by promise,
Mrs. Turner and her daughter, and Mrs. Morrice, came along with Roger Pepys to dinner.  We
were as merry as I could be, having but a bad dinner for them; but so much the better, because
of the dinner which I must have at the end of this month.  And here Mrs. The. shewed me my
name upon her breast as her Valentine, which will cost me 20s.  After dinner I took them down
into the wine-cellar, and broached my tierce of claret for them.  Towards the evening we parted,
and I to the office awhile, and then home to supper and to bed, the sooner having taken some
cold yesterday upon the water, which brings me my usual pain.

4th.  Lay long talking with my wife about ordering things in our family, and then rose and
to my office, there collecting an alphabet for my Navy Manuscript, which, after a short dinner,
I returned to and by night perfected to my great content.  So to other business till 9 at night,
and so home to supper and to bed.

5th.  Rose this morning early, only to try with intention to begin my last summer's course
in rising betimes.  So to my office a little, and then to Westminster by coach with Sir J.
Minnes and Sir W. Batten, in our way talking of Sir W. Pen's business of his patent, which
I think I have put a stop to wholly, for Sir J. Minnes swears he will never consent to it.
Thence I went to see my Lord Sandwich, who I found very ill, and by his cold being several
nights hindered from sleep, he is hardly able to open his eyes, and is very weak and sad upon
it, which troubled me much.  So after talking with Mr. Cooke, whom I found there, about his
folly for looking and troubling me and other friends in getting him a place (that is, storekeeper
of the Navy at Tangier) before there is any such thing, I returned to the Hall, and thence
back with the two knights home again by coach, where I found Mr. Moore got abroad, and dined
with me, which I was glad to see, he having not been able to go abroad a great while.  Then
came in Mr. Hawley and dined with us, and after dinner I left them, and to the office, where
we sat late, and I do find that I shall meet with nothing to oppose my growing great in the
office but Sir W. Pen, who is now well again, and comes into the office very brisk, and, I
think, to get up his time that he has been out of the way by being mighty diligent at the office,
which, I pray God, he may be, but I hope by mine to weary him out, for I am resolved to fall
to business as hard as I can drive, God giving me health.  At my office late, and so home to
supper and to bed.

6th.  Up betimes, and about eight o'clock by coach with four horses, with Sir J. Minnes and
Sir W. Batten, to Woolwich, a pleasant day.  There at the yard we consulted and ordered several
matters, and thence to the rope yard and did the like, and so into Mr. Falconer's, where we
had some fish, which we brought with us, dressed; and there dined with us his new wife, which
had been his mayde, but seems to be a genteel woman, well enough bred and discreet.  Thence
after dinner back to Deptford, where we did as before, and so home, good discourse in our way,
Sir J. Minnes being good company, though a simple man enough as to the business of his office,
but we did discourse at large again about Sir W. Pen's patent to be his assistant, and I perceive
he is resolved never to let it pass. To my office, and thence to Sir W. Batten's, where Major
Holmes was lately come from the Streights, but do tell me strange stories of the faults of
Cooper his master, put in by me, which I do not believe, but am sorry to hear and must take
some course to have him removed, though I believe that the Captain is proud, and the fellow
is not supple enough to him.  So to my office again to set down my Journall, and so home and
to bed.  This evening my boy Waynman's brother was with me, and I did tell him again that I
must part with the boy, for I will not keep him.  He desires my keeping him a little longer
till he can provide for him, which I am willing for a while to do.  Up betimes, and to the
office, where some of us sat all the morning. At noon Sir W. Pen began to talk with me like
a counterfeit rogue very kindly about his house and getting bills signed for all our works,
but he is a cheating fellow, and so I let him talk and answered nothing.  So we parted.  I
to dinner, and there met The. Turner, who is come on foot in a frolique to beg me to get a
place at sea for John, their man, which is a rogue; but, however, it may be, the sea may do
him good in reclaiming him, and therefore I will see what I can do.  She dined with me; and
after dinner I took coach, and carried her home; in our way, in Cheapside, lighting and giving
her a dozen pair of white gloves as my Valentine. Thence to my Lord Sandwich, who is gone to
Sir W. Wheeler's for his more quiet being, where he slept well last night, and I took him very
merry, playing at cards, and much company with him. So I left him, and Creed and I to Westminster
Hall, and there walked a good while.  He told me how for some words of my Lady Gerard's

     [Jane, wife of Lord Gerard (see ante, January 1st, 1662-63).  The
     king had previously put a slight upon Lady Gerard, probably at the
     instigation of Lady Castlemaine, as the two ladies were not friends.
     On the 4th of January of this same year Lady Gerard had given a
     supper to the king and queen, when the king withdrew from the party
     and proceeded to the house of Lady Castlemaine, and remained there
     throughout the evening (see Steinman's "Memoir of Barbara, Duchess
     of Cleveland," 1871, p. 47).]

against my Lady Castlemaine to the Queen, the King did the other day affront her in going out
to dance with her at a ball, when she desired it as the ladies do, and is since forbid attending
the Queen by the King; which is much talked of, my Lord her husband being a great favourite.
Thence by water home and to my office, wrote by the post and so home to bed.

8th (Lord's day).  I dined with Sir William, where a good but short dinner, not better than
one of mine commonly of a Sunday.  After dinner up to my Lord, there being Mr. Kumball.  Thence
walked home, in my way meeting Mr. Moore, with whom I took a turn or two in the street among
the drapers in Paul's Churchyard, talking of business, and so home to bed.

9th.  Up betimes, to my office, where all the morning.  And thence he and I in his coach, against
my will (for I am resolved to shun too great fellowship with him) to White Hall, but came too
late, the Duke having been with our fellow officers before we came, for which I was sorry.
Thence he and I to walk one turn in the Park, and so home by coach, and I to my office, where
late, and so home to supper and bed.  The crowns of Cromwell are now sold, it seems, for 25s.
and 30s. apiece.

10th.  Up and to my office all the morning, and great pleasure it is to be doing my business
betimes.  About noon Sir J. Minnes came to me and staid half an hour with me in my office talking
about his business with Sir W. Pen, and (though with me an old doter) yet he told me freely
how sensible he is of Sir W. Pen's treachery in this business, and what poor ways he has taken
all along to ingratiate himself by making Mr. Turner write out things for him and then he gives
them to the Duke, and how he directed him to give Mr. Coventry L100 for his place, but that
Mr. Coventry did give him L20 back again.  All this I am pleased to hear that his knavery is
found out.  Dined upon a poor Lenten dinner at home, my wife being vexed at a fray this morning
with my Lady Batten about my boy's going thither to turn the watercock with their maydes' leave,
but my Lady was mighty high upon it and she would teach his mistress better manners, which
my wife answered aloud that she might hear, that she could learn little manners of her.  After
dinner to my office, and there we sat all the afternoon till 8 at night, and so wrote my letters
by the post and so before 9 home, which is rare with me of late, I staying longer, but with
multitude of business my head akes, and so I can stay no longer, but home to supper and to bed.

11th.  Up betimes, and to my office, walked a little in the garden with Sir W. Batten, talking
about the difference between his Lady and my wife yesterday, and I doubt my wife is to blame.
About noon had news by Mr. Wood that Butler, our chief witness against Field, was sent by him
to New England contrary to our desire, which made me mad almost; and so Sir J. Minnes, Sir
W. Pen, and I dined together at Trinity House, and thither sent for him to us and told him
our minds, which he seemed not to value much, but went away.  I wrote and sent an express to
Walthamstow to Sir W. Pen, who is gone thither this morning, to tell him of it.  However, in
the afternoon Wood sends us word that he has appointed another to go, who shall overtake the
ship in the Downes.  So I was late at the office, among other things writing to the Downes,
to the Commander-in-Chief, and putting things into the surest course I could to help the business.
So home and to bed.

12th.  Up betimes and to my office all the morning with Captain Cocke ending their account
of their Riga contract for hemp.  So home to dinner, my head full of business against the office.
After dinner comes my uncle Thomas with a letter to my father, wherein, as we desire, he and
his son do order their tenants to pay their rents to us, which pleases me well. In discourse
he tells me my uncle Wight thinks much that I do never see them, and they have reason, but
I do apprehend that they have been too far concerned with my uncle Thomas against us, so that
I have had no mind hitherto, but now I shall go see them.  He being gone, I to the office,
where at the choice of maisters and chyrurgeons for the fleet now going out, I did my business
as I could wish, both for the persons I had a mind to serve, and in getting the warrants signed
drawn by my clerks, which I was afeard of.  Sat late, and having done I went home, where I
found Mary Ashwell come to live with us, of whom I hope well, and pray God she may please us,
which, though it cost me something, yet will give me much content.  So to supper and to bed,
and find by her discourse and carriage to-night that she is not proud, but will do what she
is bid, but for want of being abroad knows not how to give the respect to her mistress, as
she will do when she is told it, she having been used only to little children, and there was
a kind of a mistress over them.  Troubled all night with my cold, I being quite hoarse with
it that I could not speak to be heard at all almost.

13th.  Up pretty early and to my office all the morning busy.  At noon home to dinner expecting
Ashwell's father, who was here in the morning and promised to come but he did not, but there
came in Captain Grove, and I found him to be a very stout man, at least in his discourse he
would be thought so, and I do think that he is, and one that bears me great respect and deserves
to be encouraged for his care in all business. Abroad by water with my wife and Ashwell, and
left them at Mr. Pierce's, and I to Whitehall and St. James's Park (there being no Commission
for Tangier sitting to-day as I looked for) where I walked an hour or two with great pleasure,
it being a most pleasant day.  So to Mrs. Hunt's, and there found my wife, and so took them
up by coach, and carried them to Hide Park, where store of coaches and good faces.  Here till
night, and so home and to my office to write by the post, and so to supper and to bed.

14th.  Up betimes and to my office, where we sat all the morning, and a great rant I did give
to Mr. Davis, of Deptford, and others about their usage of Michell, in his Bewpers,--[Bewpers
is the old name for bunting.]--which he serves in for flaggs, which did trouble me, but yet
it was in defence of what was truth.  So home to dinner, where Creed dined with me, and walked
a good while in the garden with me after dinner, talking, among other things, of the poor service
which Sir J. Lawson did really do in the Streights, for which all this great fame and honour
done him is risen.  So to my office, where all the afternoon giving maisters their warrants
for this voyage, for which I hope hereafter to get something at their coming home.  In the
evening my wife and I and Ashwell walked in the garden, and I find she is a pretty ingenuous

     [For ingenious.  The distinction of the two words ingenious and
     ingenuous by which the former indicates mental, and the second moral
     qualities, was not made in Pepys's day.]

girl at all sorts of fine work, which pleases me very well, and I hope will be very good entertainment
for my wife without much cost.  So to write by the post, and so home to supper and to bed.

15th (Lord's day).  Up and with my wife and her woman Ashwell the first time to church, where
our pew was so full with Sir J. Minnes's sister and her daughter, that I perceive, when we
come all together, some of us must be shut out, but I suppose we shall come to some order what
to do therein. Dined at home, and to church again in the afternoon, and so home, and I to my
office till the evening doing one thing or other and reading my vows as I am bound every Lord's
day, and so home to supper and talk, and Ashwell is such good company that I think we shall
be very lucky in her.  So to prayers and to bed.  This day the weather, which of late has been
very hot and fair, turns very wet and cold, and all the church time this afternoon it thundered
mightily, which I have not heard a great while.

16th.  Up very betimes and to my office, where, with several Masters of the King's ships, Sir
J. Minnes and I advising upon the business of Slopps, wherein the seaman is so much abused
by the Pursers, and that being done, then I home to dinner, and so carried my wife to her mother's,
set her down and Ashwell to my Lord's lodging, there left her, and I to the Duke, where we
met of course, and talked of our Navy matters.  But however will let it fall at present without
doing more in it to see whether they will do their duties themselves, which he will see, and
saith they do not.  We discoursed of many other things to my great content and so parted, and
I to my wife at my Lord's lodgings, where I heard Ashwell play first upon the harpsicon, and
I find she do play pretty well, which pleaseth me very well.  Thence home by coach, buying
at the Temple the printed virginal-book for her, and so home and to my office a while, and
so home and to supper and to bed.

17th.  In the afternoon to the court again, where, first, Abraham, the boatswain of the King's
pleasure boat, was tried for drowning a man; and next, Turpin, accused by our wicked rogue
Field, for stealing the King's timber; but after full examination, they were both acquitted,
and as I was glad of the first, for the saving the man's life, so I did take the other as a
very good fortune to us; for if Turpin had been found guilty, it would have sounded very ill
in the ears of all the world, in the business between Field and us.  So home with my mind at
very great ease, over the water to the Tower, and thence, there being nobody at the office,
we being absent, and so no office could be kept.  So home and wrote a letter to Commissioner
Pett to Chatham by all means to compose the business between Major Holmes and Cooper his master,
and so to bed.

18th.  Wake betimes and talk a while with my wife about a wench that she has hired yesterday,
which I would have enquired of before she comes, she having lived in great families, and so
up and to my office, where all the morning, and at noon home to dinner.  After dinner by water
to Redriffe, my wife and Ashwell with me, and so walked and left them at Halfway house; I to
Deptford, where up and down the store-houses, and on board two or three ships now getting ready
to go to sea, and so back, and find my wife walking in the way.  So home again, merry with
our Ashwell, who is a merry jade, and so awhile to my office, and then home to supper, and
to bed. This day my tryangle, which was put in tune yesterday, did please me very well, Ashwell
playing upon it pretty well.

19th.  Up betimes and to Woolwich all alone by water, where took the officers most abed.  I
walked and enquired how all matters and businesses go, and by and by to the Clerk of the Cheque's
house, and there eat some of his good Jamaica brawne, and so walked to Greenwich.  Part of
the way Deane walking with me; talking of the pride and corruption of most of his fellow officers
of the yard, and which I believe to be true.  So to Deptford, where I did the same to great
content, and see the people begin to value me as they do the rest.  At noon Mr. Wayth took
me to his house, where I dined, and saw his wife, a pretty woman, and had a good fish dinner,
and after dinner he and I walked to Redriffe talking of several errors in the Navy, by which
I learned a great deal, and was glad of his company.  So by water home, and by and by to the
office, where we sat till almost 9 at night.  So after doing my own business in my office,
writing letters, &c., home to supper, and to bed, being weary and vexed that I do not find
other people so willing to do business as myself, when I have taken pains to find out what
in the yards is wanting and fitting to be done.

20th.  Up betimes and over the water, and walked to Deptford, where up and down the yarde,
and met the two clerks of the Cheques to conclude by our method their callbooks, which we have
done to great perfection, and so walked home again, where I found my wife in great pain abed
.  .  .  . I staid and dined by her, and after dinner walked forth, and by water to the Temple,
and in Fleet Street bought me a little sword, with gilt handle, cost 23s., and silk stockings
to the colour of my riding cloth suit, cost I 5s., and bought me a belt there too, cost 15s.,
and so calling at my brother's I find he has got a new maid, very likely girl, I wish he do
not play the fool with her.  Hence home and in comes Captain Ferrers and by and by Mr. Bland
to see the and sat talking with me till 9 or to at night, and so good night.  The Captain to
bid my wife to his child's christening.  So my wife being pretty well again and Ashwell there
we spent the evening pleasantly, and so to bed.

21st.  This discourse done, and things put in a way of doing, they went away, and Captain Holmes
being called in he began his high complaint against his Master Cooper, and would have him forthwith
discharged. Which I opposed, not in his defence but for the justice of proceeding not to condemn
a man unheard, upon [which] we fell from one word to another that we came to very high terms,
such as troubled me, though all and the worst that I ever said was that that was insolently
or ill mannerdly spoken. When he told me that it was well it was here that I said it. But all
the officers, Sir G. Carteret, Sir J. Minnes, Sir W. Batten, and Sir W. Pen cried shame of
it.  At last he parted and we resolved to bring the dispute between him and his Master to a
trial next week, wherein I shall not at all concern myself in defence of any thing that is
unhandsome on the Master's part nor willingly suffer him to have any wrong.  So we rose and
I to my office, troubled though sensible that all the officers are of opinion that he has carried
himself very much unbecoming him.  So wrote letters by the post, and home to supper and to bed.

22d (Lord's day).  Up betimes and in my office wrote out our bill for the Parliament about
our being made justices of Peace in the City. Thence with Mr. Creed to Captain Ferrers, where
many fine ladies; the house well and prettily furnished.  She [Mrs. Ferrers] lies in, in great
state, Mr. G. Montagu, Collonel Williams, Cromwell that was,

     [Colonel Williams--"Cromwell that was"--appears to have been Henry
     Cromwell, grandson of Sir Oliver Cromwell, and first cousin, once
     removed, to the Protector.  He was seated at Bodsey House, in the
     parish of Ramsey, which had been his father's residence, and held
     the commission of a colonel.  He served in several Parliaments for
     Huntingdonshire, voting, in 1660, for the restoration of the
     monarchy; and as he knew the name of Cromwell would not be grateful
     to the Court, he disused it, and assumed that of Williams, which had
     belonged to his ancestors; and he is so styled in a list of knights
     of the proposed Order of the Royal Oak.  He died at Huntingdon, 3rd
     August, 1673.  (Abridged from Noble's "Memoirs of the Cromwells,"
     vol. i., p. 70.)--B.]

and Mrs. Wright as proxy for my Lady Jemimah, were witnesses.  Very pretty and plentiful entertainment,
could not get away till nine at night, and so home.  My coach cost me 7s.  So to prayers, and
to bed. This day though I was merry enough yet I could not get yesterday's quarrel out of my
mind, and a natural fear of being challenged by Holmes for the words I did give him, though
nothing but what did become me as a principal officer.

23rd.  Up betimes and to my office, before noon my wife and I eat something, thinking to have
gone abroad together, but in comes Mr. Hunt, who we were forced to stay to dinner, and so while
that was got ready he and I abroad about 2 or 3 small businesses of mine, and so back to dinner,
and after dinner he went away, and my wife and I and Ashwell by coach, set my wife down at
her mother's and Ashwell at my Lord's, she going to see her father and mother, and I to Whitehall,
being fearful almost, so poor a spirit I have, of meeting Major Holmes.  By and by the Duke
comes, and we with him about our usual business, and then the Committee for Tangier, where,
after reading my Lord Rutherford's commission and consented to, Sir R. Ford, Sir W. Rider,
and I were chosen to bring in some laws for the Civill government of it, which I am little
able to do, but am glad to be joyned with them, for I shall learn something of them.  Thence
to see my Lord Sandwich, and who should I meet at the door but Major Holmes.  He would have
gone away, but I told him I would not spoil his visitt, and would have gone, but however we
fell to discourse and he did as good as desire excuse for the high words that did pass in his
heat the other day, which I was willing enough to close with, and after telling him my mind
we parted, and I left him to speak with my Lord, and I by coach home, where I found Will. Howe
come home to-day with my wife, and staid with us all night, staying late up singing songs,
and then he and I to bed together in Ashwell's bed and she with my wife. This the first time
that I ever lay in the room.  This day Greatorex brought me a very pretty weather-glass for
heat and cold.

     [The thermometer was invented in the sixteenth century, but it is
     disputed who the inventor was.  The claims of Santorio are supported
     by Borelli and Malpighi, while the title of Cornelius Drebbel is
     considered undoubted by Boerhaave.  Galileo's air thermometer, made
     before 1597, was the foundation of accurate thermometry.  Galileo
     also invented the alcohol thermometer about 1611 or 1612.  Spirit
     thermometers were made for the Accademia del Cimento, and described
     in the Memoirs of that academy.  When the academy was dissolved by
     order of the Pope, some of these thermometers were packed away in a
     box, and were not discovered until early in the nineteenth century.
     Robert Hooke describes the manufacture and graduation of
     thermometers in his "Micrographia" (1665).]

24th.  Lay pretty long, that is, till past six o'clock, and them up and W. Howe and I very
merry together, till having eat our breakfast, he went away, and I to my office.  By and by
Sir J. Minnes and I to the Victualling Office by appointment to meet several persons upon stating
the demands of some people of money from the King.  Here we went into their Bakehouse, and
saw all the ovens at work, and good bread too, as ever I would desire to eat.  Thence Sir J.
Minnes and I homewards calling at Browne's, the mathematician in the Minnerys, with a design
of buying White's ruler to measure timber with, but could not agree on the price. So home,
and to dinner, and so to my office, where we sat anon, and among other things had Cooper's
business tried against Captain Holmes, but I find Cooper a fuddling, troublesome fellow, though
a good artist, and so am contented to have him turned out of his place, nor did I see reason
to say one word against it, though I know what they did against him was with great envy and
pride.  So anon broke up, and after writing letters, &c., home to supper and to bed.

25th (Lady-day).  Up betimes and to my office, where all the morning, at noon dined and to
the Exchange, and thence to the Sun Tavern, to my Lord Rutherford, and dined with him, and
some others, his officers, and Scotch gentlemen, of fine discourse and education.  My Lord
used me with great respect, and discoursed upon his business as with one that he did esteem
of, and indeed I do believe that this garrison is likely to come to something under him.  By
and by he went away, forgetting to take leave of me, my back being turned, looking upon the
aviary, which is there very pretty, and the birds begin to sing well this spring.  Thence home
and to my office till night, reading over and consulting upon the book and Ruler that I bought
this morning of Browne concerning the lyne of numbers, in which I find much pleasure.  This
evening came Captain Grove about hiring ships for Tangier.  I did hint to him my desire that
I could make some lawfull profit thereof, which he promises that he will tell me of all that
he gets and that I shall have a share, which I did not demand, but did silently consent to
it, and money I perceive something will be got thereby.  At night Mr. Bland came and sat with
me at my office till late, and so I home and to bed.  This day being washing day and my maid
Susan ill, or would be thought so, put my house so out of order that we had no pleasure almost
in anything, my wife being troubled thereat for want of a good cook-maid, and moreover I cannot
have my dinner as I ought in memory of my being cut for the stone, but I must have it a day
or two hence.

26th.  Up betimes and to my office, leaving my wife in bed to take her physique, myself also
not being out of some pain to-day by some cold that I have got by the sudden change of the
weather from hot to cold.  This day is five years since it pleased God to preserve me at my
being cut of the stone, of which I bless God I am in all respects well.  Only now and then
upon taking cold I have some pain, but otherwise in very good health always.  But I could not
get my feast to be kept to-day as it used to be, because of my wife's being ill and other disorders
by my servants being out of order.  This morning came a new cook-maid at L4 per annum, the
first time I ever did give so much, but we hope it will be nothing lost by keeping a good cook.
She did live last at my Lord Monk's house, and indeed at dinner did get what there was very
prettily ready and neat for me, which did please me much.  This morning my uncle Thomas was
with me according to agreement, and I paid him the L50, which was against my heart to part
with, and yet I must be contented; I used him very kindly, and I desire to continue so voyd
of any discontent as to my estate, that I may follow my business the better.  At the Change
I met him again, with intent to have met with my uncle Wight to have made peace with him, with
whom by my long absence I fear I shall have a difference, but he was not there, so we missed.
All the afternoon sat at the office about business till 9 or 10 at night, and so dispatch business
and home to supper and to bed.  My maid Susan went away to-day, I giving her something for
her lodging and diet somewhere else a while that I might have room for my new maid.

27th.  Up betimes and at my office all the morning, at noon to the Exchange, and there by appointment
met my uncles Thomas and Wight, and from thence with them to a tavern, and there paid my uncle
Wight three pieces of gold for himself, my aunt, and their son that is dead, left by my uncle
Robert, and read over our agreement with my uncle Thomas and the state of our debts and legacies,
and so good friendship I think is made up between us all, only we have the worst of it in having
so much money to pay.  Thence I to the Exchequer again, and thence with Creed into Fleet Street,
and calling at several places about business; in passing, at the Hercules pillars he and I
dined though late, and thence with one that we found there, a friend of Captain Ferrers I used
to meet at the playhouse, they would have gone to some gameing house, but I would not but parted,
and staying a little in Paul's Churchyard, at the foreign Bookseller's looking over some Spanish
books, and with much ado keeping myself from laying out money there, as also with them, being
willing enough to have gone to some idle house with them, I got home, and after a while at
my office, to supper, and to bed.

28th.  Up betimes and to my office, where all the morning.  Dined at home and Creed with me,
and though a very cold day and high wind, yet I took him by land to Deptford, my common walk,
where I did some little businesses, and so home again walking both forwards and backwards,
as much along the street as we could to save going by water.  So home, and after being a little
while hearing Ashwell play on the tryangle, to my office, and there late, writing a chiding
letter--to my poor father about his being so unwilling to come to an account with me, which
I desire he might do, that I may know what he spends, and how to order the estate so as to
pay debts and legacys as far as may be.  So late home to supper and to bed.

29th (Lord's day).  Waked as I used to do betimes, but being Sunday and very cold I lay long,
it raining and snowing very hard, which I did never think it would have done any more this
year.  Up and to church, home to dinner.  He being gone, up to my chamber, where my wife and
Ashwell and I all the afternoon talking and laughing, and by and by I a while to my office,
reading over some papers which I found in my man William's chest of drawers, among others some
old precedents concerning the practice of this office heretofore, which I am glad to find and
shall make use of, among others an oath, which the Principal Officers were bound to swear at
their entrance into their offices, which I would be glad were in use still.  So home and fell
hard to make up my monthly accounts, letting my family go to bed after prayers.  I staid up
long, and find myself, as I think, fully worth L670.  So with good comfort to bed, finding
that though it be but little, yet I do get ground every month.  I pray God it may continue
so with me.

30th.  Up betimes and found my weather-glass sunk again just to the same position which it
was last night before I had any fire made in my chamber, which had made it rise in two hours
time above half a degree. So to my office where all the morning and at the Glass-house, and
after dinner by coach with Sir W. Pen I carried my wife and her woman to Westminster, they
to visit Mrs. Ferrers and Clerke, we to the Duke, where we did our usual business, and afterwards
to the Tangier Committee, where among other things we all of us sealed and signed the Contract
for building the Mole with my Lord Tiviott, Sir J. Lawson, and Mr. Cholmeley. A thing I did
with a very ill will, because a thing which I did not at all understand, nor any or few of
the whole board.  We did also read over the propositions for the Civill government and Law
Merchant of the town, as they were agreed on this morning at the Glasshouse by Sir R. Ford
and Sir W. Rider, who drew them, Mr. Povy and myself as a Committee appointed to prepare them,
which were in substance but not in the manner of executing them independent wholly upon the
Governor consenting to. Thence to see my Lord Sandwich, who I found very merry and every day
better and better.  So to my wife, who waited my coming at my Lord's lodgings, and took her
up and by coach home, where no sooner come but to bed, finding myself just in the same condition
I was lately by the extreme cold weather, my pores stopt and so my body all inflamed and itching.
So keeping myself warm and provoking myself to a moderate sweat, and so somewhat better in
the morning,

31st.  And to that purpose I lay long talking with my wife about my father's coming, which
I expect to-day, coming up with the horses brought up for my Lord.  Up and to my office, where
doing business all the morning, and at Sir W. Batten's, whither Mr. Gauden and many others
came to us about business.  Then home to dinner, where W. Joyce came, and he still a talking
impertinent fellow.  So to the office again, and hearing by and by that Madam Clerke, Pierce,
and others were come to see my wife I stepped in and staid a little with them, and so to the
office again, where late, and so home to supper and to bed.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                  APRIL
                                  1663

April 1st. Thence back to my brother's, in my way meeting Mr. Moore and talking with him about
getting me some money, and calling at my brother's they tell me that my brother is still abroad,
and that my father is not yet up.  At which I wondered, not thinking that he was come, though
I expected him, because I looked for him at my house.  So I up to his bedside and staid an
hour or two talking with him.  Among other things he tells me how unquiett my mother is grown,
that he is not able to live almost with her, if it were not for Pall.  All other matters are
as well as upon so hard conditions with my uncle Thomas we can expect them.  I left him in
bed, being very weary, to come to my house to-night or tomorrow, when he pleases, and so I
home, calling on the virginall maker, buying a rest for myself to tune my tryangle, and taking
one of his people along with me to put it in tune once more, by which I learned how to go about
it myself for the time to come.  So to dinner, my wife being lazily in bed all this morning.
Ashwell and I dined below together, and a pretty girl she is, and I hope will give my wife
and myself good content, being very humble and active, my cook maid do also dress my meat very
well and neatly.  So to my office all the afternoon till night, and then home, calling at Sir
W. Batten's, where was Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Pen, I telling them how by my letter this day
from Commissioner Pett I hear that his Stempeese

     [Stemples, cross pieces which are put into a frame of woodwork to
     cure and strengthen a shaft.]

he undertook for the new ship at Woolwich, which we have been so long, to our shame, in looking
for, do prove knotty and not fit for service.

2nd.  Up by very betimes and to my office, where all the morning till towards noon, and then
by coach to Westminster Hall with Sir W. Pen, and while he went up to the House I walked in
the Hall with Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, that I met there, talking about my business the other
day with Holmes, whom I told my mind, and did freely tell how I do depend upon my care and
diligence in my employment to bear me out against the pride of Holmes or any man else in things
that are honest, and much to that purpose which I know he will make good use of.  But he did
advise me to take as few occasions as I can of disobliging Commanders, though this is one that
every body is glad to hear that he do receive a check.  By and by the House rises and I home
again with Sir W. Pen, and all the way talking of the same business, to whom I did on purpose
tell him my mind freely, and let him see that it must be a wiser man than Holmes (in these
very words) that shall do me any hurt while I do my duty.  I to remember him of Holmes's words
against Sir J. Minnes, that he was a knave, rogue, coward, and that he will kick him and pull
him by the ears, which he remembered all of them and may have occasion to do it hereafter to
his owne shame to suffer them to be spoke in his presence without any reply but what I did
give him, which, has caused all this feud.  But I am glad of it, for I would now and then take
occasion to let the world know that I will not be made a novice.  Sir W. Pen took occasion
to speak about my wife's strangeness to him and his daughter, and that believing at last that
it was from his taking of Sarah to be his maid, he hath now put her away, at which I am glad.
So home, whither my father comes and dines with us, and being willing to be merry with him
I made myself so as much as I could, and so to the office, where we sat all the afternoon,
and at night having done all my business I went home to my wife and father, and supped, and
so to bed, my father lying with me in Ashwell's bed in the red chamber.

3rd.  So home to dinner with my father and wife, and after dinner up to my tryangle, where
I found that above my expectation Ashwell has very good principles of musique and can take
out a lesson herself with very little pains, at which I am very glad.  Thence away back again
by water to Whitehall, and there to the Tangier Committee, where we find ourselves at a great
stand; the establishment being but L70,000 per annum, and the forces to be kept in the town
at the least estimate that my Lord Rutherford can be got to bring it is L53,000. Late tonight
I sent to invite my uncle Wight and aunt with Mrs. Turner to-morrow.

4th.  Up betimes and to my office.  By and by to Lombard street by appointment to meet Mr.
Moore, but the business not being ready I returned to the office, where we sat a while, and,
being sent for, I returned to him and there signed to some papers in the conveying of some
lands mortgaged by Sir Rob. Parkhurst in my name to my Lord Sandwich, which I having done I
returned home to dinner, whither by and by comes Roger Pepys, Mrs. Turner her daughter, Joyce
Norton, and a young lady, a daughter of Coll.  Cockes, my uncle Wight, his wife and Mrs. Anne
Wight. This being my feast, in lieu of what I should have had a few days ago for my cutting
of the stone, for which the Lord make me truly thankful.  Very merry at, before, and after
dinner, and the more for that my dinner was great, and most neatly dressed by our own only
maid.  After dinner to Hide Park; my aunt, Mrs. Wight and I in one coach, and all the rest
of the women in Mrs. Turner's; Roger being gone in haste to the Parliament about the carrying
this business of the Papists, in which it seems there is great contest on both sides, and my
uncle and father staying together behind. At the Park was the King, and in another coach my
Lady Castlemaine, they greeting one another at every tour.

     [The company drove round and round the Ring in Hyde Park.  The
     following two extracts illustrate this, and the, second one shows
     how the circuit was called the Tour: "Here (1697) the people of
     fashion take the diversion of the Ring.  In a pretty high place,
     which lies very open, they have surrounded a circumference of two or
     three hundred paces diameter with a sorry kind of balustrade, or
     rather with postes placed upon stakes but three feet from the
     ground; and the coaches drive round this.  When they have turned for
     some time round one way they face about and turn t'other: so rowls
     the world!"--Wilson's Memoirs, 1719, p. 126.]

     ["It is in this Park where the Grand Tour or Ring is kept for the
     Ladies to take the air in their coaches, and in fine weather I have
     seen above three hundred at a time."--[Macky's] Journey through
     England, 1724, vol. i., p. 75.]

Here about an hour, and so leaving all by the way we home and found the house as clean as if
nothing had been done there to-day from top to bottom, which made us give the cook 12d. a piece,
each of us.  So to my office about writing letters by the post, one to my brother John at Brampton
telling him (hoping to work a good effect by it upon my mother) how melancholy my father is,
and bidding him use all means to get my mother to live peaceably and quietly, which I am sure
she neither do nor I fear can ever do, but frightening her with his coming down no more, and
the danger of her condition if he should die I trust may do good.  So home and to bed.  So
to dinner, and very well pleased with it.  Then to church again, where a simple bawling young
Scot preached.  So home to my office alone till dark, reading some papers of my old navy precedents,
and so home to supper, and, after some pleasant talk, my wife, Ashwell, and I to bed.

6th.  Up very betimes and to my office, and there made an end of reading my book that I have
of Mr. Barlow's of the Journal of the Commissioners of the Navy, who begun to act in the year
1628 and continued six years, wherein is fine observations and precedents out of which I do
purpose to make a good collection.  By and by, much against my will, being twice sent for,
to Sir G. Carteret's to pass his accounts there, upon which Sir J. Minnes, Sir W. Batten, Sir
W. Pen, and myself all the morning, and again after dinner to it, being vexed at my heart to
see a thing of that importance done so slightly and with that neglect for which God pardon
us, and I would I could mend it.  Thence leaving them I made an excuse and away home, and took
my wife by coach and left her at Madam Clerk's, to make a visit there, and I to the Committee
of Tangier, where I found, to my great joy, my Lord Sandwich, the first time I have seen him
abroad these some months, and by and by he rose and took leave, being, it seems, this night
to go to Kensington or Chelsey, where he hath taken a lodging for a while to take the ayre.
We staid, and after business done I got Mr. Coventry into the Matted Gallery and told him my
whole mind concerning matters of our office, all my discontent to see things of so great trust
carried so neglectfully, and what pitiful service the Controller and Surveyor make of their
duties, and I disburdened my mind wholly to him and he to me his own, many things, telling
me that he is much discouraged by seeing things not to grow better and better as he did well
hope they would have done.  Upon the whole, after a full hour's private discourse, telling
one another our minds, we with great content parted, and with very great satisfaction for my
[having] thus cleared my conscience, went to Dr. Clerk's and thence fetched my wife, and by
coach home.  To my office a little to set things in order, and so home to supper and to bed.

7th.  Up very betimes, and angry with Will that he made no more haste to rise after I called
him.  So to my office, and all the morning there. At noon to the Exchange, and so home to dinner,
where I found my wife had been with Ashwell to La Roche's to have her tooth drawn, which it
seems aches much, but my wife could not get her to be contented to have it drawn after the
first twich, but would let it alone, and so they came home with it undone, which made my wife
and me good sport.  After dinner to the office, where Sir J. Minnes did make a great complaint
to me alone, how my clerk Mr. Hater had entered in one of the Sea books a ticket to have been
signed by him before it had been examined, which makes the old fool mad almost, though there
was upon enquiry the greatest reason in the world for it.  Which though it vexes me, yet it
is most to see from day to day what a coxcomb he is, and that so great a trust should lie in
the hands of such a fool.  We sat all the afternoon, and I late at my office, it being post
night, and so home to supper, my father being come again to my house, and after supper to bed,
and after some talk to sleep.

8th.  Up betimes and to my office, and by and by, about 8 o'clock, to the Temple to Commissioner
Pett lately come to town and discoursed about the affairs of our office, how ill they go through
the corruption and folly of Sir W. Batten and Sir J. Minnes. His name is Dr. Lany.  Here I
also saw the Duke of Monmouth, with his Order of the Garter, the first time I ever saw it.
Home by water to dinner, and with my father, wife, and Ashwell, after dinner, by water towards
Woolwich, and in our way I bethought myself that we had left our poor little dog that followed
us out of doors at the waterside, and God knows whether he be not lost, which did not only
strike my wife into a great passion but I must confess myself also; more than was becoming
me.  We immediately returned, I taking another boat and with my father went to Woolwich, while
they went back to find the dog.  I took my father on board the King's pleasure boat and down
to Woolwich, and walked to Greenwich thence and turning into the park to show my father the
steps up the hill, we found my wife, her woman, and dog attending us, which made us all merry
again, and so took boats, they to Deptford and so by land to Half-way house, I into the King's
yard and overlook them there, and eat and drank with them, and saw a company of seamen play
drolly at our pence, and so home by water.  I a little at the office, and so home to supper
and to bed, after having Ashwell play my father and me a lesson upon her Tryangle.

9th.  Up betimes and to my office, and anon we met upon finishing the Treasurer's accounts.
At noon dined at home and am vexed to hear my wife tell me how our maid Mary do endeavour to
corrupt our cook maid, which did please me very well, but I am resolved to rid the house of
her as soon as I can.  To the office and sat all the afternoon till 9 at night, and an hour
after home to supper and bed.  My father lying at Tom's to-night, he dining with my uncle Fenner
and his sons and a great many more of the gang at his own cost to-day.  To bed vexed also to
think of Sir J. Minnes finding fault with Mr. Hater for what he had done the other day, though
there be no hurt in the thing at all but only the old fool's jealousy, made worse by Sir W. Batten.

10th.  Up very betimes and to my office, where most hard at business alone all the morning.
At noon to the Exchange, where I hear that after great expectation from Ireland, and long stop
of letters, there is good news come, that all is quiett after our great noise of troubles there,
though some stir hath been as was reported.  Off the Exchange with Sir J. Cutler and Mr. Grant
to the Royall Oak Tavern, in Lumbard Street, where Alexander Broome the poet was, a merry and
witty man, I believe, if he be not a little conceited, and here drank a sort of French wine,
called Ho Bryan,

     [Haut Brion, a claret; one of the first growths of the red wines of
     Medoc.]

that hath a good and most particular taste that I never met with.  Home to dinner, and then
by water abroad to Whitehall, my wife to see Mrs. Ferrers, I to Whitehall and the Park, doing
no business.  Then to my Lord's lodgings, met my wife, and walked to the New Exchange.  There
laid out 10s. upon pendents and painted leather gloves, very pretty and all the mode.  So by
coach home and to my office till late, and so to supper and to bed.

11th.  Up betimes and to my office, where we sat also all the morning till noon, and then home
to dinner, my father being there but not very well. After dinner in comes Captain Lambert of
the Norwich, this day come from Tangier, whom I am glad to see.  There came also with him Captain
Wager, and afterwards in came Captain Allen to see me, of the Resolution.  All staid a pretty
while, and so away, and I a while to my office, then abroad into the street with my father,
and left him to go to see my aunt Wight and uncle, intending to lie at Tom's to-night, or my
cozen Scott's, where it seems he has hitherto lain and is most kindly used there.  So I home
and to my office very late making up my Lord's navy accounts, wherein I find him to stand debtor
L1200.  So home to supper and to bed.

12th (Lord's day).  Lay till 8 o'clock, which I have not done a great while, then up and to
church, where I found our pew altered by taking some of the hind pew to make ours bigger, because
of the number of women, more by Sir J. Minnes company than we used to have.  Home to dinner,
and after dinner, intending to go to Chelsey to my Lord Sandwich, my wife would needs go with
me, though she walked on foot to Whitehall.  Which she did and staid at my Lord's lodgings
while Creed and I took a turn at Whitehall, but no coach to be had, and so I returned to them
and sat talking till evening, and then got a coach and to Gray's Inn walks, where some handsome
faces, and so home and there to supper, and a little after 8 o'clock to bed, a thing I have
not done God knows when.

13th.  Up by five o'clock and to my office, where hard at work till towards noon, and home
and eat a bit, and so going out met with Mr. Mount my old acquaintance, and took him in and
drank a glass or two of wine to him and so parted, having not time to talk together, and I
with Sir W. Batten to the Stillyard, and there eat a lobster together, and Wyse the King's
fishmonger coming in we were very merry half an hour, and so by water to Whitehall, and by
and by being all met we went in to the Duke and there did our business and so away, and anon
to the Tangier Committee, where we had very fine discourse from Dr. Walker and Wiseman, civilians,
against our erecting a court-merchant at Tangier, and well answered in many things by my Lord
Sandwich (whose speaking I never till now observed so much to be very good) and Sir R. Ford.
By and by the discourse being ended, we fell to my Lord Rutherford's dispatch, which do not
please him, he being a Scott, and one resolved to scrape every penny that he can get by any
way, which the Committee will not agree to. He took offence at something and rose away, without
taking leave of the board, which all took ill, though nothing said but only by the Duke of
Albemarle, who said that we ought to settle things as they ought to be, and if he will not
go upon these terms another man will, no doubt. Here late, quite finishing things against his
going, and so rose, and I walked home, being accompanied by Creed to Temple Bar, talking of
this afternoon's passage, and so I called at the Wardrobe in my way home, and there spoke at
the Horn tavern with Mr. Moore a word or two, but my business was with Mr. Townsend, who is
gone this day to his country house, about sparing Charles Pepys some money of his bills due
to him when he can, but missing him lost my labour.  So walked home, finding my wife abroad,
at my aunt, Wight's, who coming home by and by, I home to supper and to bed.

14th.  Up betimes to my office, where busy till 8 o'clock that Sir W. Batten, Sir J. Minnes,
Sir W. Pen and I down by barge to Woolwich, to see "The Royal James" launched, where she has
been under repair a great while. We staid in the yard till almost noon, and then to Mr. Falconer's
to a dinner of fish of our own sending, and when it was just ready to come upon the table,
word is brought that the King and Duke are come, so they all went away to shew themselves,
while I staid and had a little dish or two by myself, resolving to go home, and by the time
I had dined they came again, having gone to little purpose, the King, I believe, taking little
notice of them.  So they to dinner, and I staid a little with them, and so good bye.  I walked
to Greenwich, studying the slide rule for measuring of timber, which is very fine.  Thence
to Deptford by water, and walked through the yard, and so walked to Redriffe, and so home pretty
weary, to my office, where anon they all came home, the ship well launched, and so sat at the
office till 9 at night, and I longer doing business at my office, and so home to supper, my
father being come, and to bed.

15th.  Up betimes, and after talking with my father awhile, I to my office, and there hard
at it till almost noon, and then went down the river with Maynes, the purveyor, to show a ship's
lading of Norway goods, and called at Sir W. Warren's yard, and so home to dinner.  After dinner
up with my wife and Ashwell a little to the Tryangle, and so I down to Deptford by land about
looking out a couple of catches fitted to be speedily set forth in answer to a letter of Mr.
Coventry's to me.  Which done, I walked back again, all the way reading of my book of Timber
measure, comparing it with my new Sliding Rule brought home this morning with great pleasure.
Taking boat again I went to Shishe's yard, but he being newly gone out towards Deptford I followed
him thither again, and there seeing him I went with him and pitched upon a couple, and so by
water home, it being late, past 8 at night, the wind cold, and I a little weary.  So home to
my office, then to supper and bed.

16th.  Up betimes and to my office, met to pass Mr. Pitt's (anon Sir J. Lawson's Secretary
and Deputy Treasurer) accounts for the voyage last to the Streights, wherein the demands are
strangely irregular, and I dare not oppose it alone for making an enemy and do no good, but
only bring a review upon my Lord Sandwich, but God knows it troubles my heart to see it, and
to see the Comptroller, whose duty it is, to make no more matter of it.  At noon home for an
hour to dinner, and so to the office public and private till late at night, so home to supper
and bed with my father.

17th.  Up by five o'clock as I have long done and to my office all the morning, at noon home
to dinner with my father with us.  Our dinner, it being Good Friday, was only sugarsopps and
fish; the only time that we have had a Lenten dinner all this Lent.  This morning Mr. Hunt,
the instrument maker, brought me home a Basse Viall to see whether I like it, which I do not
very well, besides I am under a doubt whether I had best buy one yet or no, because of spoiling
my present mind and love to business.  After dinner my father and I walked into the city a
little, and parted and to Paul's Church Yard, to cause the title of my English "Mare Clausum"

     [Selden's work was highly esteemed, and Charles I. made an order in
     council that a copy should be kept in the Council chest, another in
     the Court of Exchequer, and a third in the Court of Admiralty.  The
     book Pepys refers to is Nedham's translation, which was entitled,
     "Of the Dominion or Ownership of the Sea.  Two Books .  .  .  ,
     written at first in Latin and entituled Mare Clausum, by John
     Selden.  Translated into English by Marchamont Nedham.  London,
     1652."  This has the Commonwealth arms on the title-page and a
     dedication "To the Supreme Autoritie of the Nation-The Parliament of
     the Commonwealth of England."  The dedication to Charles I. in
     Selden's original work was left out.
So home and to my office till night, and so home to talk with my father,
and supper and to bed, I have not had yet one quarter of an hour's leisure
to sit down and talk with him since he came to town, nor do I know till
the holidays when I shall.

18th.  Up betimes and to my office, where all the morning.  At noon to dinner.  With us Mr.
Creed, who has been deeply engaged at the office this day about the ending of his accounts,
wherein he is most unhappy to have to do with a company of fools who after they have signed
his accounts and made bills upon them yet dare not boldly assert to the Treasurer that they
are satisfied with his accounts.  Hereupon all dinner, and walking in the garden the afternoon,
he and I talking of the ill management of our office, which God knows is very ill for the King's
advantage.  I would I could make it better.  In the evening to my office, and at night home
to supper and bed.

20th.  Up betimes as I use to do, and in my chamber begun to look over my father's accounts,
which he brought out of the country with him by my desire, whereby I may see what he has received
and spent, and I find that he is not anything extravagant, and yet it do so far outdo his estate
that he must either think of lessening his charge, or I must be forced to spare money out of
my purse to help him through, which I would willing do as far as L20 goes.  So to my office
the remaining part of the morning till towards noon, and then to Mr. Grant's.  There saw his
prints, which he shewed me, and indeed are the best collection of any things almost that ever
I saw, there being the prints of most of the greatest houses, churches, and antiquitys in Italy
and France and brave cutts.  I had not time to look them over as I ought, and which I will
take time hereafter to do, and therefore left them and home to dinner.  After dinner, it raining
very hard, by coach to Whitehall, where, after Sir G. Carteret, Sir J. Minnes, Mr. Coventry
and I had been with the Duke, we to the Committee of Tangier and did matters there dispatching
wholly my Lord Teviott, and so broke up.  So to bed.

21st.  Up betimes and to my office, where first I ruled with red ink my English "Mare Clausum,"
which, with the new orthodox title, makes it now very handsome.  So to business, and then home
to dinner, and after dinner to sit at the office in the afternoon, and thence to my study late,
and so home to supper to play a game at cards with my wife, and so to bed. Ashwell plays well
at cards, and will teach us to play; I wish it do not lose too much of my time, and put my
wife too much upon it.

22nd.  Up betimes and to my office very busy all the morning there, entering things into my
Book Manuscript, which pleases me very much. So to the Change, and so to my uncle Wight's,
by invitation, whither my father, wife, and Ashwell came, where we had but a poor dinner, and
not well dressed; besides, the very sight of my aunt's hands and greasy manner of carving,
did almost turn my stomach.  After dinner by coach to the King's Playhouse, where we saw but
part of "Witt without mony," which I do not like much, but coming late put me out of tune,
and it costing me four half-crowns for myself and company.  So, the play done, home, and I
to my office a while and so home, where my father (who is so very melancholy) and we played
at cards, and so to supper and to bed.

23rd.  I up betimes, and with my father, having a fire made in my wife's new closet above,
it being a wet and cold day, we sat there all the morning looking over his country accounts
ever since his going into the country.  I find his spending hitherto has been (without extraordinary
charges) at full L100 per annum, which troubles me, and I did let him apprehend it, so as that
the poor man wept, though he did make it well appear to me that he could not have saved a farthing
of it. I did tell him how things stand with us, and did shew my distrust of Pall, both for
her good nature and housewifery, which he was sorry for, telling me that indeed she carries
herself very well and carefully, which I am glad to hear, though I doubt it was but his doting
and not being able to find her miscarriages so well nowadays as he could heretofore have done.
We resolve upon sending for Will Stankes up to town to give us a right understanding in all
that we have in Brampton, and before my father goes to settle every thing so as to resolve
how to find a living for my father and to pay debts and legacies, and also to understand truly
how Tom's condition is in the world, that we may know what we are like to expect of his doing
ill or well.  So to dinner, and after dinner to the office, where some of us met and did a
little business, and so to Sir W. Batten's to see a little picture drawing of his by a Dutchman
which is very well done.  So made me ready, and to my office, where all the morning, and at
noon home, whither came Captain Holland, who is lately come home from sea, and has been much
harassed in law about the ship which he has bought, so that it seems in a despair he endeavoured
to cut his own throat, but is recovered it; and it seems whether by that or any other persuasion
(his wife's mother being a great zealot) he is turned almost a Quaker, his discourse being
nothing but holy, and that impertinent, that I was weary of him.  At last pretending to go
to the Change we walked thither together, and there I left him and home to dinner, sending
my boy by the way to enquire after two dancing masters at our end of the town for my wife to
learn, of whose names the boy brought word.  After dinner all the afternoon fiddling upon my
viallin (which I have not done many a day) while Ashwell danced above in my upper best chamber,
which is a rare room for musique, expecting this afternoon my wife to bring my cozen Scott
and Stradwick, but they came not, and so in the evening we by ourselves to Half-way house to
walk, but did not go in there, but only a walk and so home again and to supper, my father with
us, and had a good lobster intended for part of our entertainment to these people to-day, and
so to cards, and then to bed, being the first day that I have spent so much to my pleasure
a great while.

25th.  Up betimes and to my vyall and song book a pretty while, and so to my office, and there
we sat all the morning.  Among other things Sir W. Batten had a mind to cause Butler (our chief
witness in the business of Field, whom we did force back from an employment going to sea to
come back to attend our law sute) to be borne as a mate on the Rainbow in the Downes in compensation
for his loss for our sakes.  This he orders an order to be drawn by Mr. Turner for, and after
Sir J. Minnes, Sir W. Batten, and Sir W. Pen had signed it, it came to me and I was going to
put it up into my book, thinking to consider of it and give them my opinion upon it before
I parted with it, but Sir W. Pen told me I must sign it or give it him again, for it should
not go without my hand. I told him what I meant to do, whereupon Sir W. Batten was very angry,
and in a great heat (which will bring out any thing which he has in his mind, and I am glad
of it, though it is base in him to have a thing so long in his mind without speaking of it,
though I am glad this is the worst, for if he had worse it would out as well as this some time
or other) told me that I should not think as I have heretofore done, make them sign orders
and not sign them myself.  Which what ignorance or worse it implies is easy to judge, when
he shall sign to things (and the rest of the board too as appears in this business) for company
and not out of their judgment for.  After some discourse I did convince them that it was not
fit to have it go, and Sir W. Batten first, and then the rest, did willingly cancel all their
hands and tear the order, for I told them, Butler being such a rogue as I know him, and we
have all signed him to be to the Duke, it will be in his power to publish this to our great
reproach, that we should take such a course as this to serve ourselves in wronging the King
by putting him into a place he is no wise capable of, and that in an Admiral ship.  At noon
we rose, Sir W. Batten ashamed and vexed, and so home to dinner, and after dinner walked to
the old Exchange and so all along to Westminster Hall, White Hall, my Lord Sandwich's lodgings,
and going by water back to the Temple did pay my debts in several places in order to my examining
my accounts tomorrow to my great content.  So in the evening home, and after supper (my father
at my brother's) and merrily practising to dance, which my wife hath begun to learn this day
of Mr. Pembleton,

     [Pembleton, the dancing-master, made Pepys very jealous, and there
     are many allusions to him in the following pages.  His lessons
     ceased on May 27th.]

but I fear will hardly do any great good at it, because she is conceited that she do well already,
though I think no such thing.  So to bed.  At Westminster Hall, this day, I buy a book lately
printed and licensed by Dr. Stradling, the Bishop of London's chaplin, being a book discovering
the practices and designs of the papists, and the fears of some of our own fathers of the Protestant
church heretofore of the return to Popery as it were prefacing it.

The book is a very good book; but forasmuch as it touches one of the Queenmother's fathers
confessors, the Bishop, which troubles many good men and members of Parliament, hath called
it in, which I am sorry for. Another book I bought, being a collection of many expressions
of the great Presbyterian Preachers upon publique occasions, in the late times, against the
King and his party, as some of Mr. Marshall, Case, Calamy, Baxter, &c., which is good reading
now, to see what they then did teach, and the people believe, and what they would seem to believe
now.

26th (Lord's-day).  Lay pretty long in bed talking with my wife, and then up and set to the
making up of my monthly accounts, but Tom coming, with whom I was angry for botching my camlott
coat, to tell me that my father and he would dine with me, and that my father was at our church,
I got me ready and had a very good sermon of a country minister upon "How blessed a thing it
is for brethren to live together in unity!"  So home and all to dinner, and then would have
gone by coach to have seen my Lord Sandwich at Chelsey if the man would have taken us, but
he denying it we staid at home, and I all the afternoon upon my accounts, and find myself worth
full L700, for which I bless God, it being the most I was ever yet worth in money.  In the
evening (my father being gone to my brother's to lie to-night) my wife, Ashwell, and the boy
and I, and the dogg, over the water and walked to Half-way house, and beyond into the fields,
gathering of cowslipps, and so to Half-way house, with some cold lamb we carried with us, and
there supped, and had a most pleasant walk back again, Ashwell all along telling us some parts
of their mask at Chelsey School, which was very pretty, and I find she hath a most prodigious
memory, remembering so much of things acted six or seven years ago.  So home, and after reading
my vows, being sleepy, without prayers to bed, for which God forgive me!

27th.  Up betimes and to my office, where doing business alone a good while till people came
about business to me.  Will Griffin tells me this morning that Captain Browne, Sir W. Batten's
brother-in-law, is dead of a blow given him two days ago by a seaman, a servant of his, being
drunk, with a stone striking him on the forehead, for which I am sorry, he having a good woman
and several small children.  Thence to my Lord's lodging, and thither came Creed to me, and
he and I walked a great while in the garden, and thence to an alehouse in the market place
to drink fine Lambeth ale, and so to Westminster Hall, and after walking there a great while,
home by coach, where I found Mary gone from my wife, she being too high for her, though a very
good servant, and my boy too will be going in a few days, for he is not for my family, he is
grown so out of order and not to be ruled, and do himself, against his brother's counsel, desire
to be gone, which I am sorry for, because I love the boy and would be glad to bring him to
good.  At home with my wife and Ashwell talking of her going into the country this year, wherein
we had like to have fallen out, she thinking that I have a design to have her go, which I have
not, and to let her stay here I perceive will not be convenient, for she expects more pleasure
than I can give her here, and I fear I have done very ill in letting her begin to learn to
dance.  After being a while at my office home to supper and to bed, my Will being come home
again after being at his father's all the last week taking physique.

28th.  Up betimes and to my office, and there all the morning, only stepped up to see my wife
and her dancing master at it, and I think after all she will do pretty well at it.  So to dinner,
Mr. Hunt dining with us, and so to the office, where we sat late, and then I to my office casting
up my Lord's sea accounts over again, and putting them in order for payment, and so home to
supper and to bed.

29th.  My father staid a good while at the window and then sat down by himself while my Lord
and I were thus an hour together or two after dinner discoursing, and by and by he took his
leave, and told me he would stay below for me. Anon I took leave, and coming down found my
father unexpectedly in great pain and desiring for God's sake to get him a bed to lie upon,
which I did, and W. Howe and I staid by him, in so great pain as I never saw, poor wretch,
and with that patience, crying only: Terrible, terrible pain, God help me, God help me, with
the mournful voice, that made my heart ake.  He desired to rest a little alone to see whether
it would abate, and W. Howe and I went down and walked in the gardens, which are very fine,
and a pretty fountayne, with which I was finely wetted, and up to a banquetting house, with
a very fine prospect, and so back to my father, who I found in such pain that I could not bear
the sight of it without weeping, never thinking that I should be able to get him from thence,
but at last, finding it like to continue, I got him to go to the coach, with great pain, and
driving hard, he all the while in a most unsufferable torment (meeting in the way with Captain
Ferrers going to my Lord, to tell him that my Lady Jemimah is come to town, and that Will Stankes
is come with my father's horses), not staying the coach to speak with any body, but once, in
St. Paul's Churchyard, we were forced to stay, the jogging and pain making my father vomit,
which it never had done before.  At last we got home, and all helping him we got him to bed
presently, and after half an hour's lying in his naked bed (it being a rupture [with] which
he is troubled, and has been this 20 years, but never in half the pain and with so great swelling
as now, and how this came but by drinking of cold small beer and sitting long upon a low stool
and then standing long after it he cannot tell) .  .  .  . After which he was at good ease,
and so continued, and so fell to sleep, and we went down whither W. Stankes was come with his
horses.  But it is very pleasant to hear how he rails at the rumbling and ado that is in London
over it is in the country, that he cannot endure it.  He supped with us, and very merry, and
then he to his lodgings at the Inne with the horses, and so we to bed, I to my father who is
very well again, and both slept very well.

30th.  Up, and after drinking my morning draft with my father and W. Stankes, I went forth
to Sir W. Batten, who is going (to no purpose as he uses to do) to Chatham upon a survey. 
So to my office, where till towards noon, and then to the Exchange, and back home to dinner,
where Mrs. Hunt, my father, and W. Stankes; but, Lord! what a stir Stankes makes with his being
crowded in the streets and wearied in walking in London, and would not be wooed by my wife
and Ashwell to go to a play, nor to White Hall, or to see the lyons,

     [The Tower menagerie, with its famous lions, which was one of the
     chief sights of London, and gave rise to a new English word, was not
     abolished until the early part of the present century.]

though he was carried in a coach.  I never could have thought there had been upon earth a man
so little curious in the world as he is.  At the office all the afternoon till 9 at night,
so home to cards with my father, wife, and Ashwell, and so to bed.

