Contents:

     Chapter One: Education as a Necessity of Life
     Chapter Two: Education as a Social Function
     Chapter Three: Education as Direction
     Chapter Four: Education as Growth
     Chapter Five: Preparation, Unfolding, and Formal Discipline
     Chapter Six: Education as Conservative and Progressive
     Chapter Seven: The Democratic Conception in Education
     Chapter Eight: Aims in Education
     Chapter Nine: Natural Development and Social Efficiency as Aims
     Chapter Ten: Interest and Discipline
     Chapter Eleven: Experience and Thinking
     Chapter Twelve: Thinking in Education
     Chapter Thirteen: The Nature of Method
     Chapter Fourteen: The Nature of Subject Matter
     Chapter Fifteen: Play and Work in the Curriculum
     Chapter Sixteen: The Significance of Geography and History
     Chapter Seventeen: Science in the Course of Study
     Chapter Eighteen: Educational Values
     Chapter Nineteen: Labor and Leisure
     Chapter Twenty: Intellectual and Practical Studies
     Chapter Twenty-one: Physical and Social Studies: Naturalism and
             Humanism
     Chapter Twenty-two: The Individual and the World
     Chapter Twenty-Three: Vocational Aspects of Education
     Chapter Twenty-four: Philosophy of Education
     Chapter Twenty-five: Theories of Knowledge
     Chapter Twenty-six: Theories of Morals

Chapter One: Education as a Necessity of Life

1. Renewal of Life by Transmission. The most notable distinction between living and inanimate
things is that the former maintain themselves by renewal. A stone when struck resists. If its
resistance is greater than the force of the blow struck, it remains outwardly unchanged. Otherwise,
it is shattered into smaller bits. Never does the stone attempt to react in such a way that
it may maintain itself against the blow, much less so as to render the blow a contributing
factor to its own continued action. While the living thing may easily be crushed by superior
force, it none the less tries to turn the energies which act upon it into means of its own
further existence. If it cannot do so, it does not just split into smaller pieces (at least
in the higher forms of life), but loses its identity as a living thing.

As long as it endures, it struggles to use surrounding energies in its own behalf. It uses
light, air, moisture, and the material of soil. To say that it uses them is to say that it
turns them into means of its own conservation. As long as it is growing, the energy it expends
in thus turning the environment to account is more than compensated for by the return it gets:
it grows. Understanding the word "control" in this sense, it may be said that a living being
is one that subjugates and controls for its own continued activity the energies that would
otherwise use it up. Life is a self-renewing process through action upon the environment.

In all the higher forms this process cannot be kept up indefinitely. After a while they succumb;
they die. The creature is not equal to the task of indefinite self-renewal. But continuity
of the life process is not dependent upon the prolongation of the existence of any one individual.
Reproduction of other forms of life goes on in continuous sequence. And though, as the geological
record shows, not merely individuals but also species die out, the life process continues in
increasingly complex forms. As some species die out, forms better adapted to utilize the obstacles
against which they struggled in vain come into being. Continuity of life means continual readaptation
of the environment to the needs of living organisms.

We have been speaking of life in its lowest terms--as a physical thing. But we use the word
"Life" to denote the whole range of experience, individual and racial. When we see a book called
the Life of Lincoln we do not expect to find within its covers a treatise on physiology. We
look for an account of social antecedents; a description of early surroundings, of the conditions
and occupation of the family; of the chief episodes in the development of character; of signal
struggles and achievements; of the individual's hopes, tastes, joys and sufferings. In precisely
similar fashion we speak of the life of a savage tribe, of the Athenian people, of the American
nation. "Life" covers customs, institutions, beliefs, victories and defeats, recreations and
occupations.

We employ the word "experience" in the same pregnant sense. And to it, as well as to life in
the bare physiological sense, the principle of continuity through renewal applies. 

Necessity.

The doctrines of this chapter on inspiration and intuition, can we infer the desirability leaving the speech,
and to work, and dedication to a kind of intellectual quietism? Certainly not. For the development
of every faculty is a necessary condition: exercise. In the intellectual and physically, the body
does not work goes to sleep, lost his life the member does not move breaks down. Even the most
privileged geniuses fail to acquire Herculean strength, but after long work. The inspiration does not
come down over the lazy; does not exist when not boiled in the spirit fertilizing ideas and
feelings. Intuition, the view of understanding, but not acquired a habit engendered by the
long look. Fast browsing, safe and sensitive of a great painter, not only due to nature, but
also to the long contemplation and observation of good role models, and the magic of music not unfold
in the most harmonious organization, subject only to hear sounds harsh and annealed [16].

CHAPTER XVII.

EDUCATION.

§ I.

Two objects of education. Different kinds of teachers.

Commonly distinguish between the dialectical method of teaching and invention. About either I shall
give some remarks.

Education has two objects: 1. to instruct students on the elements of science: 2 º. develop their
talent when they leave school can make progress provided to its capacity.

It may seem that these two objects are but one, but it is not. The first reach all teachers who
have moderately science, the second did not arrive those of outstanding merit. For the former, just
knowing the sequence of some facts and propositions, which together form the body of science is
necessary for the latter know how it has built the chain that links
an end to the other, for the first sufficient men who know the books,
for the latter are needed men who know things.

But I will say, may well be that a teacher is more surface for the
simple purpose to teaching the elements that other very deep as this
without warning, it will take speeches to complicate the simplicity
of the first notions, and so damage to the perception hardly capable
of students.

The clear explanation of terms, the exposure level of the principles which underlie science, the
methodical coordination of the theorems and their corollaries, here is the object of those who
do not intend more than instruction in the elements.

But that extends beyond their looks, and consider that the understandings of young people tables
are not only where they have to throw some lines remain unchanged there forever, but fields that have
to fertilize with precious seed, to the tasks incumbent highest and
most difficult.

Reconciling the clarity with depth, simplicity twinning with the
combination, drive on flat road and train at the same time on walking
trails rough, showing the narrow, tangled paths through which they
passed the first inventors, Live inspire enthusiasm, talent awaken
the consciousness of its own forces, without harm with reckless presumption,
behold the powers of the teacher who believes teaching elemental rather
than fruit, but as seed.

§ II.

Ignored geniuses of others, and themselves.

How few are gifted teachers of this wonderful skill!

And how is it possible that has in the pitiful neglect in which lies this industry? Who takes
care of amateur teaching to men of high ability? Who tries to fix them in this occupation, if
they decide ever to undertake? The chairs are looked to as much as a focus to raise more above,
with the arduous tasks that they impose, join thousands upon thousands of a different order,
and plays are running and how distraction to what should obsorb the whole man.

So when young people is one in which the flame front spark of genius nobody says, no one tells it,
nobody is made to feel: and sandwiched between the good talents, continued his career without being
made to experience the scope of their forces. Because we need to know that these forces do
not always know who possesses it, even they are with respect to the
same thing he occupies.

May well be that the fire of genius life remains in ashes, not to
have been a hand that shook.

Did not we see at every step that a lijereza extraordinary, a unique
flexibility of certain members, great muscular strength and other
physical qualities, are hidden until a casual test comes to reveal
who owns them?

If Hercules does not handle more than a stick, never believed to be able to wield a heavy club.

§
III.

Means to discover the hidden talents, and appreciate in value.

A math teacher to explain to his students the theory of conic sections are give a clear and accurate
idea of ​​these curves, the equations expressing nature, and deducing the properties of the stem.
So far the student learns While the elements, but not exercised in the development of his intellectual
powers, nothing is offered that can make you feel the talent of invention, if he actually possesses.
But if the professor points out that this fundamental equation, apparently of mere convention,
it is unlikely that it has been established for no reason, of course the young man is ill insurance
based on sound that was said, and seeks the means of giving some support. If a student misses
in the generative principle of these curves, it can be noted the name they bear, and recalled that
the section parallel to the base of the cone is a circle. So naturally the student cut the
cone with planes at different positions, and at the first glance warns that if the section is closed,
and not parallel to the base, are curves whose shape resembles to the ellipse is called. And
imagine the section closest to parallelism, and more distant and always note that the figure is
an ellipse, with the only difference being the most applanation the sides, or else the biggest
difference of the axes. Is it possible to express by an equation the nature of this curve? Are there
any known data? Do you have a relationship with properties of the cone, and the parallel section?
Does the greater or less inclination of the plane change the nature of the section? Giving to
the plane other positions, so that does not leave locked section, what curves are? Is there any
similarity between them and the parables and hyperbole? These and other questions are offered
to gifted disciple of capacity and is very happy if provisions veréisle instantly pull lines inside
the cone, compared to each other, conceive triangles, calculate their relationships, and to explore
a thousand ways to arrive at the equation desired. So do not just learn the basics of the theory,
has become and an inventor, his talent as fuel is primed, and when insulated procedures of primary
education had many equals in intelligence doctrine explained now ye shall see that his companions
left far behind, that they have not taken a step, whilst him, or
has obtained the result that is sought, or advance in the true path.

Then releases its forces, and knows himself, then it feels that the capacity is above to the
routine, and maybe in time you can expand the domain of science.

A natural law professor fully explained the rights and duties of parental rights, and obligations
of children with respect to parents, saying the definitions and reasons in such cases usually. So
here come the elements, but nothing is to develop the philosophical genius of a privileged student,
or you can make stand out among the pool of peers and having a regular
capacity.

The skillful teacher want to take the measure of the talents that exist in the chair, and the time
left over after the explanation he used in an experiment.

- What about these duties seems to V. if they say something the feelings of the heart? Lights
of philosophy do you agree with the inspirations of nature? To answer this question to the medium,
noting that parents naturally want to the children, and these to
the parents, and thus are linked from our duties in our affections,
instigating these compliance with those.

So far there is no difference between students who are called good talent. But the professor
goes on to analyze the subject and question.

- How do you like to V. of the children who misbehave with parents, and not under due gratitude to
the love that these are lavished?

- Missing a sacred duty to heed not the voice of nature.

- But how come we see so often as children should not meet with their parents, while these if
something missing, usually due to overabundance of love and tenderness?

- In this the children are very bad, say the one.

- Men are easily forgotten the benefits received, tell the other, who allege the children as they
advance in age attentions are distracted by a thousand different; who remember that new affection
engendered in their minds, on account of the family that become heads, which should reduce their fathers:
and each walk noting reasons more or less adapted, more or less solid, but none entirely satisfying.
If among your students is one that has to acquire renown clarified over time, dirigidle the
same question, to see if something is right to say that unravel and illustrious.

- It is too true, I answer, that too often missing children to their duties to their parents,
but, if I mistake not, the reason for this lies in the very nature of things. The more necessary
it is for the preservation and good order of beings compliance of duty, the Creator has sought
to ensure more compliance. The world is saved, more or less well, in spite of the bad behavior
of the children, but the day that parents misbehave and forget to take care of their children,
the human race would walk to his ruin. So it is noteworthy that the children, even the best, not
his parents profess an affection so alive and burn as fathers to their children. The Creator
certainly could impart to children a so passionate and tender love as it is the parents, but this
was not necessary, and the same is not already. And it is noteworthy that the mothers, who have
greater need this love and tenderness, which have led to the limits of frenzy, having got girt
the Breeder against fatigue that could produce the first care of
children.

It also appears that the lack of fulfillment of duties in the children, there is no precisely
that these are worse, for them if they become parents, they behave as did the his, but that his
filial love is less intense than the paternal, carries much less
ascendancy and dominance over the heart, and therefore more easily
subsides, it is less strong to overcome obstacles, and exerts less
influence on all of our actions.

In the early disciples exploited responses found in this you discover the young philosopher
who begins to stand out as among stunted rose bushes tender oak walk the years that will be
felt in the forest by his big trunk and superb drink.

§ IX.

Need for basic studies.

Not created by the above, it deems appropriate to youth emancipating education elements, on the contrary,
I think he has to learn a science, however great are forces that feel equipped, it should be subject
to this mortification is as the novitiate of the letters. In this attempt many items exempted
by appealing to dictionary which contains enough to talk about everything without understanding
anything, but reason and experience demonstrate that such a method can not serve but to form what scholars
call the violet.

In effect there is in every science and profession a set of key ideas, voices and phrases peculiar
to it, which are not learned well, but considering an elemental work: so when there was no other
considerations, this would suffice to demonstrate the drawbacks to take another path. These key
concepts, and those voices and idioms, to be regarded with some respect for those who re-enters the race,
presumably because it has not in vain have worked so far which were devoted to it. If the newcomer
is mistrust of his predecessors, if you expect to reform the science or profession, and to vary dramatically,
must at least reflect, it is prudent to learn what others have said, it is bold commitment
to create everything by itself, and is exposed to waste time, not
love each other to take in any of the hardships of others.

The most extraordinary driver starts perhaps to pursue her profession in the shop of a modest craftsman,
and with great hopes which may be based on his brilliant arrangements, it remains so to learn
the names and handling of instruments and appliances work. Over time they will in many variations,
the other stuff will be more adapted, changed its form and perhaps its name, but for now need
to take them such as is, you exercise with them, until the reflection and experience have shown him that
suffer disadvantages and improvements that are susceptible.

Can be applied to all sciences the advice given to those who want to learn the story: Before
you begin your study, you must read a compendium. In this regard is remarkable Bossuet's words
in the dedication which precedes his Discourse on Universal History. Seats need to study history
in brief, to avoid confusion and save fatigue, and then adds: "This way of presenting the
world history will compare to the description geographical maps: universal history is compared
to the general map stories of each country and each people. In particular maps you see often
what is a kingdom or a province itself, in the universal you learn to fix these parts the world as
a whole, in a word, you see the part that deals with Paris or the Isle of France the kingdom, the
kingdom has in Europe, and that Europe is in the universe.

"Well well: the timely and bright comparison between the World Map and individuals apply to all
branches of knowledge. In all there are a number of which must take over to better understand the
parts, and not go confused and lost on the way sorting.

Even the ideas that are acquired by this method are almost always incomplete, often inaccurate,
and sometimes false, but all these problems even not so heavy as those resulting to rush blindly,
without background or guidance, the study of science.

Elementary works, we say, are nothing more than a skeleton, it is
true, but as is saves a lot of work, finding him already formed, it
will be easier to correct his faults, covering of nerves, muscles
and flesh, her warm, movement and life.

Among those who have studied science principles, and who, so to speak,
have taken their ideas on the fly, encyclopedias and dictionaries,
there is always a difference not escapes to a trained eye.

The former are distinguished by the precision of ideas and property
language, the others may look abundant and select news, but to the
best give a solemn occasion slip stating its superficiality ignorant
[17].

CHAPTER XVIII.

The invention.

§ I.

What to do who lack the talent for invention.

I have said enough about the methods of teaching and learning, was
treated the method of invention.

Knowing the elements of a science, and man comes to age and position that can devoted to studies
of greater length and depth, is on the case to follow paths less
beaten, and undertake more daring companies.

If nature has not gifted talent Invention, it must be satisfied for life with the elemental method,
rather than taken on a larger scale. Need guides, and this service will provide the masterpieces.
But not is believed to be understood doomed to blind subservience, and not daring to disagree
never to the authority of your teachers in the military scientific and literary, is not as
severe discipline that is not lawful for a soldier to direct some comments to his boss.

§ II.

Scientific authority.

Men able to lift and carry a flag, very few, and better is to enlist in the ranks of accredited
general, not miserable way to go guerrilla, affecting the importance of illustrious leader.

Saying
this is not my intention to preach the authority in matters purely scientific and literary;
throughout the course of the work I have given enough to understand that do not suffer from this ailment,
only I intend to indicate a need for our understanding, that being usually very thin, has need
of support. Ivy intertwined with a tree, rises to great heights, if grow without came over would
lie stretched on the ground trampled by all passersby. In addition, not for having made this
observation, we have to change the regular order of things: for with it I have given rather a fact
that offered advice. If a fact, because in spite of as much as it boasts of independence, it
is clearer than the midday light of this independence does not exist, much of humanity walking
tour by some leaders, and these to his spirit is carried by the path of truth or of error.

This
is a fact of all countries and all centuries, a fact because it is
indestructible founded in the very nature of man.

The weaker the strong feeling of superiority, and humiliated in their
presence, the genius is the heritage of mankind, is a privilege to
few granted: who has exercised an influence over other irresistible.

It has been observed very true that the masses have a tendency to
despotism, this stems from their feelings its inability to address,
and naturally seek a boss that experienced in war and politics, is
also noted in the sciences.

The generality of those who profess them are also masses are real common people who gave himself
would not know what to do, for the same way to swirling around popular groups that speak of something
better than he knows, and demonstrate knowledge he has not. The enthusiasm in the populace also penetrates
wise, and just as the other in their riots, clapping and shouting: "very good, very good! ... you
understand it better than us you will be our chief ....»

§ III.

Amendments have been in our age of scientific authority.

As widespread knowledge of the immense development of the press, has been given to believe that
the phenomenon had disappeared, but did not: what he has done, has
been modified.

When the warlords were few, when the command was among a few schools, understandings went way disciplined
armies, being so obvious dependence that there was no mistaking. Now it happens in another way: the leaders
and schools in greater numbers, the discipline has been relaxed: the soldiers go from one to
another field, these come on a bit, those are left behind, some separated
and strive to skirmishes no instructions or orders from their bosses,
it would seem that the great armies have stopped exist and that each
place by his side: but ye be not illusions, there are armies spite
of this disorder, all of which belong to well know, if you drop out
of a join the other, and when they are in trouble, all retreated in
the direction where they know they are the main body to cover their
retreat.

And if we wanted to enter into detailed accounts, we would find that it is so accurate that the leaders
are now in far greater numbers than in previous times. Forming a classification table scientific
and literary easily find that in each gender are very few carrying the flag, and his steps rushes
the crowd now as ever.

The theater and the novel do not have a small number of notables, whose works are imitated to
the annoyance? Politics, philosophy, history, do not also have a
few champions, whose names are pronounced without ceasing, and whose
opinions and speech are without discernment? The independent Germany,
did not have their philosophical schools, as marked and characterized
as could be those of St. Thomas, Scotus and Suarez? What are the peat
France academic philosophers, but humble followers of Cousin? And
what was his turn Cousin but a vicar of Hegel, and Schelling? and
philosophy, which also struggled to enter between us, do not start
with magisterial tone, demanding respect and deference, as a sacred
ministry is directed to the conversion of ordinary people? Thinking and feeling that have to do with action in association
with others is as much a social mode of behavior as is the most overt cooperative or hostile act.

What we have more especially to indicate is how the social medium nurtures its immature members.
There is no great difficulty in seeing how it shapes the external habits of action. Even dogs
and horses have their actions modified by association with human beings; they form different
habits because human beings are concerned with what they do. Human beings control animals by
controlling the natural stimuli which influence them; by creating a certain environment in
other words. Food, bits and bridles, noises, vehicles, are used to direct the ways in which
the natural or instinctive responses of horses occur. By operating steadily to call out certain
acts, habits are formed which function with the same uniformity as the original stimuli. If
a rat is put in a maze and finds food only by making a given number of turns in a given sequence,
his activity is gradually modified till he habitually takes that course rather than another
when he is hungry.

Human actions are modified in a like fashion. A burnt child dreads the fire; if a parent arranged
conditions so that every time a child touched a certain toy he got burned, the child would
learn to avoid that toy as automatically as he avoids touching fire. So far, however, we are
dealing with what may be called training in distinction from educative teaching. The changes
considered are in outer action rather than in mental and emotional dispositions of behavior.
The distinction is not, however, a sharp one. The child might conceivably generate in time
a violent antipathy, not only to that particular toy, but to the class of toys resembling it.
The aversion might even persist after he had forgotten about the original burns; later on he
might even invent some reason to account for his seemingly irrational antipathy. In some cases,
altering the external habit of action by changing the environment to affect the stimuli to
action will also alter the mental disposition concerned in the action. Yet this does not always
happen; a person trained to dodge a threatening blow, dodges automatically with no corresponding
thought or emotion. We have to find, then, some differentia of training from education.

A clew may be found in the fact that the horse does not really share in the social use to which
his action is put. Some one else uses the horse to secure a result which is advantageous by
making it advantageous to the horse to perform the act--he gets food, etc. But the horse, presumably,
does not get any new interest. He remains interested in food, not in the service he is rendering.
He is not a partner in a shared activity. Were he to become a copartner, he would, in engaging
in the conjoint activity, have the same interest in its accomplishment which others have. He
would share their ideas and emotions.

Now in many cases--too many cases--the activity of the immature human being is simply played
upon to secure habits which are useful. He is trained like an animal rather than educated like
a human being. His instincts remain attached to their original objects of pain or pleasure.
But to get happiness or to avoid the pain of failure he has to act in a way agreeable to others.
In other cases, he really shares or participates in the common activity. In this case, his
original impulse is modified. He not merely acts in a way agreeing with the actions of others,
but, in so acting, the same ideas and emotions are aroused in him that animate the others.
A tribe, let us say, is warlike. The successes for which it strives, the achievements upon
which it sets store, are connected with fighting and victory. The presence of this medium incites
bellicose exhibitions in a boy, first in games, then in fact when he is strong enough. As he
fights he wins approval and advancement; as he refrains, he is disliked, ridiculed, shut out
from favorable recognition. It is not surprising that his original belligerent tendencies and
emotions are strengthened at the expense of others, and that his ideas turn to things connected
with war. Only in this way can he become fully a recognized member of his group. Thus his mental
habitudes are gradually assimilated to those of his group.

If we formulate the principle involved in this illustration, we shall perceive that the social
medium neither implants certain desires and ideas directly, nor yet merely establishes certain
purely muscular habits of action, like "instinctively" winking or dodging a blow. Setting up
conditions which stimulate certain visible and tangible ways of acting is the first step. Making
the individual a sharer or partner in the associated activity so that he feels its success
as his success, its failure as his failure, is the completing step. As soon as he is possessed
by the emotional attitude of the group, he will be alert to recognize the special ends at which
it aims and the means employed to secure success. His beliefs and ideas, in other words, will
take a form similar to those of others in the group. He will also achieve pretty much the same
stock of knowledge since that knowledge is an ingredient of his habitual pursuits.

The importance of language in gaining knowledge is doubtless the chief cause of the common
notion that knowledge may be passed directly from one to another. It almost seems as if all
we have to do to convey an idea into the mind of another is to convey a sound into his ear.
Thus imparting knowledge gets assimilated to a purely physical process. But learning from language
will be found, when analyzed, to confirm the principle just laid down. It would probably be
admitted with little hesitation that a child gets the idea of, say, a hat by using it as other
persons do; by covering the head with it, giving it to others to wear, having it put on by
others when going out, etc. But it may be asked how this principle of shared activity applies
to getting through speech or reading the idea of, say, a Greek helmet, where no direct use
of any kind enters in. What shared activity is there in learning from books about the discovery
of America?

Since language tends to become the chief instrument of learning about many things, let us see
how it works. The baby begins of course with mere sounds, noises, and tones having no meaning,
expressing, that is, no idea. Sounds are just one kind of stimulus to direct response, some
having a soothing effect, others tending to make one jump, and so on. The sound h-a-t would
remain as meaningless as a sound in Choctaw, a seemingly inarticulate grunt, if it were not
uttered in connection with an action which is participated in by a number of people. When the
mother is taking the infant out of doors, she says "hat" as she puts something on the baby's
head. Being taken out becomes an interest to the child; mother and child not only go out with
each other physically, but both are concerned in the going out; they enjoy it in common. By
conjunction with the other factors in activity the sound "hat" soon gets the same meaning for
the child that it has for the parent; it becomes a sign of the activity into which it enters.
The bare fact that language consists of sounds which are mutually intelligible is enough of
itself to show that its meaning depends upon connection with a shared experience.

In short, the sound h-a-t gains meaning in precisely the same way that the thing "hat" gains
it, by being used in a given way. And they acquire the same meaning with the child which they
have with the adult because they are used in a common experience by both. The guarantee for
the same manner of use is found in the fact that the thing and the sound are first employed
in a joint activity, as a means of setting up an active connection between the child and a
grownup. Similar ideas or meanings spring up because both persons are engaged as partners in
an action where what each does depends upon and influences what the other does. If two savages
were engaged in a joint hunt for game, and a certain signal meant "move to the right" to the
one who uttered it, and "move to the left" to the one who heard it, they obviously could not
successfully carry on their hunt together. Understanding one another means that objects, including
sounds, have the same value for both with respect to carrying on a common pursuit.

After sounds have got meaning through connection with other things employed in a joint undertaking,
they can be used in connection with other like sounds to develop new meanings, precisely as
the things for which they stand are combined. Thus the words in which a child learns about,
say, the Greek helmet originally got a meaning (or were understood) by use in an action having
a common interest and end. They now arouse a new meaning by inciting the one who hears or reads
to rehearse imaginatively the activities in which the helmet has its use. For the time being,
the one who understands the words "Greek helmet" becomes mentally a partner with those who
used the helmet. He engages, through his imagination, in a shared activity. It is not easy
to get the full meaning of words. Most persons probably stop with the idea that "helmet" denotes
a queer kind of headgear a people called the Greeks once wore. We conclude, accordingly, that
the use of language to convey and acquire ideas is an extension and refinement of the principle
that things gain meaning by being used in a shared experience or joint action; in no sense
does it contravene that principle. When words do not enter as factors into a shared situation,
either overtly or imaginatively, they operate as pure physical stimuli, not as having a meaning
or intellectual value. They set activity running in a given groove, but there is no accompanying
conscious purpose or meaning. Thus, for example, the plus sign may be a stimulus to perform
the act of writing one number under another and adding the numbers, but the person performing
the act will operate much as an automaton would unless he realizes the meaning of what he does.

3. The Social Medium as Educative. Our net result thus far is that social environment forms
the mental and emotional disposition of behavior in individuals by engaging them in activities
that arouse and strengthen certain impulses, that have certain purposes and entail certain
consequences. A child growing up in a family of musicians will inevitably have whatever capacities
he has in music stimulated, and, relatively, stimulated more than other impulses which might
have been awakened in another environment. Save as he takes an interest in music and gains
a certain competency in it, he is "out of it"; he is unable to share in the life of the group
to which he belongs. Some kinds of participation in the life of those with whom the individual
is connected are inevitable; with respect to them, the social environment exercises an educative
or formative influence unconsciously and apart from any set purpose.

In savage and barbarian communities, such direct participation (constituting the indirect or
incidental education of which we have spoken) furnishes almost the sole influence for rearing
the young into the practices and beliefs of the group. Even in present-day societies, it furnishes
the basic nurture of even the most insistently schooled youth. In accord with the interests
and occupations of the group, certain things become objects of high esteem; others of aversion. I think this is pure illusion, and the first thing is that neither seat over to the
persons or things, the papers do not say all, nor much, nor even that who know the writers,
even in the freest country.

§ II.

The newspapers say it all about people.

We are witnessing at every step that proponents of what is called a salience, the intemperate praise
to praise, while his opponents he was given to the dictates hands full ignorant, stupid, inhuman,
bloodthirsty, tigre, traitor, monster, and other niceties for this style. The knowledge, talent,
honesty, kindness, generosity and other qualities ascribed to the hero the writers of his devotion,
are in fact somewhat faded with fulfillment of its enemies, but finally, what do you find
in this racket clean? What think abroad to be decided by one end, or to adopt a middle way referee
referee? The result is groping, and be clarified or to suspend trial or to fall into gross errors.
The public career of the man in question is not always indicated
by well-characterized events, and also what is in them good or bad,
not always is it clear whether attributed to him or to his subordinates.

The

funny thing is that sometimes such strife between the public opinion in certain circles, and
maybe in the whole country, is fixed on the character, so that does not appear but lies by
mutual agreement. In fact, talking with men who are without news, maybe the same as they have
declared war over raw, "what is talent, you will hear, nobody denies, knows a lot and has
no bad intentions, but what would you have ?.... gotten in That, and oust need, I'm the first
to respect as a private person, and hopefully we had listened to us, we would have done much,
and would have played a role brilliant. "You see that one so honest, so intelligent, active and
energetic, to say of certain newspapers, he and only he can remove the country from the brink?
Listen to those who know him closely, and perhaps his most ardent supporters. "That is an unhappy
already know, but at last is the man we need, and someone we have to enforce. He is accused
of handling unclean, that who is ignorant? in bank A has made such funds, and now is going
to do the same in the bank B. In fact stealing a manner too shocking, but see V., and how common
this is ...., and also, when we accuse our opponents, not it is necessary that one would leave the horns
of the bull. Do not know V. the history of this man? as I'll tell V. his life and miracles
... "And I relate his adventures, ups and low, and its evil or misery, or nonsense, and since
then you suffer no illusions, and you judge forward with confidence and success.

These proportions do not usually enjoy them foreigners or nationals
who satisfied with the reading of newspapers, and so believe that
the comparison of those opposite views are clear about the truth,
form the most wrong concepts men and things.

The fear of being denounced, of alienating some people, the respect due to privacy, decorum itself,
and other similar reasons, often to prevent newspapers descending
to certain details, and refer anécdoctas that portray the character
alive who attack, it sometimes happens that the same exaggeration
of the charges, intemperance of invective, and the cruelty of the
satire, or do not do much damage with it could do with the simple
and quiet exhibition of some particular facts.

The writers usually distinguish between the private man and public figure, ie very good in most
cases, because otherwise the controversial journalistic luck and too bitter and broken, soon
became a quagmire where it stirred intolerable filth, but this does not mean that the private
life of a man not used very either to speculate on their behavior
in public places.

 The chief importance of this foregoing statement of
the educative process which goes on willy-nilly is to lead us to note that the only way in
which adults consciously control the kind of education which the immature get is by controlling
the environment in which they act, and hence think and feel. We never educate directly, but
indirectly by means of the environment. Whether we permit chance environments to do the work,
or whether we design environments for the purpose makes a great difference. And any environment
is a chance environment so far as its educative influence is concerned unless it has been deliberately
regulated with reference to its educative effect. An intelligent home differs from an unintelligent
one chiefly in that the habits of life and intercourse which prevail are chosen, or at least
colored, by the thought of their bearing upon the development of children. But schools remain,
of course, the typical instance of environments framed with express reference to influencing
the mental and moral disposition of their members.

Roughly speaking, they come into existence when social traditions are so complex that a considerable
part of the social store is committed to writing and transmitted through written symbols. Written
symbols are even more artificial or conventional than spoken; they cannot be picked up in accidental
intercourse with others. In addition, the written form tends to select and record matters which
are comparatively foreign to everyday life. The achievements accumulated from generation to
generation are deposited in it even though some of them have fallen temporarily out of use.
Consequently as soon as a community depends to any considerable extent upon what lies beyond
its own territory and its own immediate generation, it must rely upon the set agency of schools
to insure adequate transmission of all its resources. To take an obvious illustration: The
life of the ancient Greeks and Romans has profoundly influenced our own, and yet the ways in
which they affect us do not present themselves on the surface of our ordinary experiences.
In similar fashion, peoples still existing, but remote in space, British, Germans, Italians,
directly concern our own social affairs, but the nature of the interaction cannot be understood
without explicit statement and attention. In precisely similar fashion, our daily associations
cannot be trusted to make clear to the young the part played in our activities by remote physical
energies, and by invisible structures. Hence a special mode of social intercourse is instituted,
the school, to care for such matters.

This mode of association has three functions sufficiently specific, as compared with ordinary
associations of life, to be noted. First, a complex civilization is too complex to be assimilated
in toto. It has to be broken up into portions, as it were, and assimilated piecemeal, in a
gradual and graded way. The relationships of our present social life are so numerous and so
interwoven that a child placed in the most favorable position could not readily share in many
of the most important of them. Not sharing in them, their meaning would not be communicated
to him, would not become a part of his own mental disposition. There would be no seeing the
trees because of the forest. Business, politics, art, science, religion, would make all at
once a clamor for attention; confusion would be the outcome. The first office of the social
organ we call the school is to provide a simplified environment. It selects the features which
are fairly fundamental and capable of being responded to by the young. Then it establishes
a progressive order, using the factors first acquired as means of gaining insight into what
is more complicated.

In the second place, it is the business of the school environment to eliminate, so far as possible,
the unworthy features of the existing environment from influence upon mental habitudes. It
establishes a purified medium of action. Selection aims not only at simplifying but at weeding
out what is undesirable. Every society gets encumbered with what is trivial, with dead wood
from the past, and with what is positively perverse. The school has the duty of omitting such
things from the environment which it supplies, and thereby doing what it can to counteract
their influence in the ordinary social environment. By selecting the best for its exclusive
use, it strives to reinforce the power of this best. As a society becomes more enlightened,
it realizes that it is responsible not to transmit and conserve the whole of its existing achievements,
but only such as make for a better future society. The school is its chief agency for the accomplishment
of this end.

In the third place, it is the office of the school environment to balance the various elements
in the social environment, and to see to it that each individual gets an opportunity to escape
from the limitations of the social group in which he was born, and to come into living contact
with a broader environment. Such words as "society" and "community" are likely to be misleading,
for they have a tendency to make us think there is a single thing corresponding to the single
word. As a matter of fact, a modern society is many societies more or less loosely connected.
Each household with its immediate extension of friends makes a society; the village or street
group of playmates is a community; each business group, each club, is another. Passing beyond
these more intimate groups, there is in a country like our own a variety of races, religious
affiliations, economic divisions. Inside the modern city, in spite of its nominal political
unity, there are probably more communities, more differing customs, traditions, aspirations,
and forms of government or control, than existed in an entire continent at an earlier epoch.

Each such group exercises a formative influence on the active dispositions of its members.
A clique, a club, a gang, a Fagin's household of thieves, the prisoners in a jail, provide
educative environments for those who enter into their collective or conjoint activities, as
truly as a church, a labor union, a business partnership, or a political party. Each of them
is a mode of associated or community life, quite as much as is a family, a town, or a state.
There are also communities whose members have little or no direct contact with one another,
like the guild of artists, the republic of letters, the members of the professional learned
class scattered over the face of the earth. For they have aims in common, and the activity
of each member is directly modified by knowledge of what others are doing.

In the olden times, the diversity of groups was largely a geographical matter. There were many
societies, but each, within its own territory, was comparatively homogeneous. But with the
development of commerce, transportation, intercommunication, and emigration, countries like
the United States are composed of a combination of different groups with different traditional
customs. It is this situation which has, perhaps more than any other one cause, forced the
demand for an educational institution which shall provide something like a homogeneous and
balanced environment for the young. Only in this way can the centrifugal forces set up by juxtaposition
of different groups within one and the same political unit be counteracted. The intermingling
in the school of youth of different races, differing religions, and unlike customs creates
for all a new and broader environment. Common subject matter accustoms all to a unity of outlook
upon a broader horizon than is visible to the members of any group while it is isolated. The
assimilative force of the American public school is eloquent testimony to the efficacy of the
common and balanced appeal.

The school has the function also of coordinating within the disposition of each individual
the diverse influences of the various social environments into which he enters. One code prevails
in the family; another, on the street; a third, in the workshop or store; a fourth, in the
religious association. As a person passes from one of the environments to another, he is subjected
to antagonistic pulls, and is in danger of being split into a being having different standards
of judgment and emotion for different occasions. This danger imposes upon the school a steadying
and integrating office.

Summary. The development within the young of the attitudes and dispositions necessary to the
continuous and progressive life of a society cannot take place by direct conveyance of beliefs,
emotions, and knowledge. It takes place through the intermediary of the environment. The environment
consists of the sum total of conditions which are concerned in the execution of the activity
characteristic of a living being. The social environment consists of all the activities of
fellow beings that are bound up in the carrying on of the activities of any one of its members.
It is truly educative in its effect in the degree in which an individual shares or participates
in some conjoint activity. By doing his share in the associated activity, the individual appropriates
the purpose which actuates it, becomes familiar with its methods and subject matters, acquires
needed skill, and is saturated with its emotional spirit.

The deeper and more intimate educative formation of disposition comes, without conscious intent,
as the young gradually partake of the activities of the various groups to which they may belong.
As a society becomes more complex, however, it is found necessary to provide a special social
environment which shall especially look after nurturing the capacities of the immature. Three
of the more important functions of this special environment are: simplifying and ordering the
factors of the disposition it is wished to develop; purifying and idealizing the existing social
customs; creating a wider and better balanced environment than that by which the young would
be likely, if left to themselves, to be influenced.

Chapter Three: Education as Direction

1. The Environment as Directive.

We now pass to one of the special forms which the general function of education assumes: namely,
that of direction, control, or guidance. Of these three words, direction, control, and guidance,
the last best conveys the idea of assisting through cooperation the natural capacities of the
individuals guided; control conveys rather the notion of an energy brought to bear from without
and meeting some resistance from the one controlled; direction is a more neutral term and suggests
the fact that the active tendencies of those directed are led in a certain continuous course,
instead of dispersing aimlessly. 

Honda to bottom, following the course of the Magdalena, the scene changes entirely. The river,
as to better reveal the wildness of the surrounding region, it is more sluggish on their way,
and far from deepening its channel splits into many arms, widens sometimes as a small inland
sea waters hiding among the foliage of the forest secular, stands in his way a cluster of
picturesque islands, and becoming more unpleasant by the abundance of poisonous insects, the
ferocity of their terrible alligators, Ardentía the beaches devouring sun-baked, and the absolute
solitude of their twists and turns, its marshes and wild ravines sadness, reveals that there has
founded the man power, that humanity has not yet had courage to go into battle with the Empress
of Nature called deserts!

This is the region that I had to cross, following the stream of Magdalena, to give my farewell
to the homeland.

       

* * * * *

The Champagne turned away from the beach, paddles stirred the beat of the wild cries the bream, and
few minutes later, to turn its course for between monstrous crags
Magdalena, lost sight of the last tufts of coconut trees that indicated
the site of the winery.

The man disappeared to give the field exclusively to the vegetation.

Always huge, wide at first, loved everywhere, presenting the most beautiful the high cliffs overlooking
the shore, or in the luxurious halls of vegetables that came to extend their floating lace parasitic
vines on the beach itself, to where it leaves to heat in ignited sand beds, the fearsome and
monstrous crocodile, the terror of the inhabitants wave. And entire forests are secular cedar
with its dark shadow covering a slope failures disrupted by the upheavals of nature, and groups
of towering palms are pavilions where flocks of parrots swinging gorgeous; and on the cliff
of red clay layers composed of mixed layers, rises a group of giant guaduas (bamboo), which for a
thousand thin woven covered Bejuquillo flowers, flexible cast their feathers on the waves of
the river, and open for fans the wind, where a fairy forest has drawn on the most whimsical
green background arabesques and mosaics.

Everywhere luxury and lush vegetation, rich contrasts and variety of forms and colors in nature,
but complete absence of population and culture. If still note inflections in the field, is
because they have not yet completed the ramifications that two main mountain ranges of the Andes
- Central and Eastern - throw on the Magdalena different directions.

After the hills disappear, the forests are horizon, and eye of the traveler, tired and sad, sees
nothing but endless desert.

A nine or ten miles from Honda leads on the left, a small crystal clear river the Guarín, after having
fertilized the most precious imaginable plain - plain fruitful, varied grasses and covered with
immense forests of palm trees of all kinds and Caracolí giant whose
shadow walking in the numerous tribes of solid blacks and tapirs,
pursued by the terrible jaguar, while in the high battlements of the
trees are countless birds air concerts and always surprising.

       

* * * * *

After five hours of sailing, the champagne is docked alongside the steamer Bogota, anchored
in the port wine Rabbit. The landscape, seen from afar, could not be more gorgeous.

On the high cliff, covered in soft green grass, in all its extension, groups of huts bogas
room rustic and poor farmers in the desert in the vast central Winery building, thatched roofing,
single floor, and behind and between houses admirable forest, in
which a green background contrasted different inks beautiful hair
Coconut on the slender neck, palms of the guaduas colossal curling,
the round leaves of mango and mamey, and ramazones stout cedar and
Caracoli those sovereign sumptuous deserts jungles of Colombia.

And at the foot of these rich woods and these huts filled with local color, animated groups
passenger and vogues, so discordant and varied, and forming a curious contrast as The steam
that made champagne and Bogotá and indigenous households. On one side the luxury of nature, untamed
and magnificent, fragrant and full of mystery, the other the luxury of civilization, science,
and the ostentation of force man victorious. There the man primitive, crude, brutal, lazy, semi-wild
and retostado by the tropical sun, ie the Colombian fashion - with all his insolence, his fanaticism
stupid, cowardly arrogance, his incredible laziness and cynicism of language, children of ignorance
rather than the corruption, and more here European, active, intelligent, and elegant white,
often blond with his penetrating gaze and poetry, language, vibrant
and fast, its elevation of spirit, always distinguished forms.

On the one hand the heavy champagne, boat canopies dry palms, 20 to 50 feet long and two or three
wide - a kind of floating hut, - and assembled by many rowers who shout terribly and look like a
legion of wild desert or the miserable Indian Ramada, exposed to the wrath of the winds, the invasions
of the reptiles and wild beasts, or showers the storms of winter, with an extravagant household
as poor, and to cherish family savage appearance, the result of crossing two or three different races,
and for which Christianity is a mixed report of impiety and idolatry, the law an incomprehensible
mess, civilization a thick fog, and the future as the present and
past merge in a situation like torpor, indolence and brutality!

And at the foot of those huts that are under transition to a life that is closer to barbarism progress
still, stood the chimney, the pavilion and masts and picturesque sides Steam Bogota to protest
against barbarism, and prove that even in the midst of the desert and the sublime mystery of an
imponderable nature by force, the man is about to start universal sovereignty, making success
all over the strength of spirit on the power of matter. How well contrasted in the port of Rabbit
steam chimney, releasing their puffs of smoke and the wind carried away by the rain, with the
mast thin secular high and coconut, topped by swinging the breath of that wind the curly palm canopy
and flexible. The coconut tree, planted from colonial times, continued to vegetate, but the
vapor, son of the republic and instrument of freedom, came to wrap
in his smoke screens, greeting him with whistles of the locomotive.

       

* * * * *

The evening offered a wonderful scene, and to increase the incidents of contrast. In Bogotá
steam we met people from very different. The captain was a brave Genoese, Republican, free,
simple and cordial, and the passengers had not only Granadinos few, but British, French and German.
The warmth was established Suddenly, as always happens in every trip, and an Irishman of 62 years,
as big as a tower happy as a boy, drinking first order, as was his duty to honor their nationality,
and mocking and playful as all Irish (except those who are serious), introduced a delicious
disorder on the deck. Sang, danced solo, played violin and drums (instruments which I understand are
not bound by a close fraternity), and finally communicate to all its excellent humor. A few
moments later the nearby jungle echoed with the fiery chorus of all passengers singing (everyone
in the tone in which the podium) and the Marseillaise, the hymn sublime war and freedom, and
God Save the Queen's English, and the songs more or less popular New Granada, Germany and Ireland.
An hour after these edges of civilization and when all reposábamos in our hammocks, amid the
shadows and silence, a hymn entirely different, wild and melancholy, full of mystery, grandeur
and harsh poetry, suddenly exploded, supported by fifty voices hoarse and heavily rhythmic,
in the middle of a forest in neighboring secular beach. Case, intonation, style and mystery of
that song came to contrast beautifully with the hot little songs
before had sprouted from the sides of steam Bogotá.

Although the show I was unknown, I could not resist the temptation of looking at closely. So,
I jumped out of my hammock, I invited two friends and I went ashore, taking the direction we
indicated the song itself and a red light that glowed in the shadows of thick the forest. The
beach was deserted and not a fashionable sleeping on the awnings
of champagne tied to an anchor of iron and thick trunks.

After walking for a trip two hundred meters, by the middle of the woods, find an extremely
interesting show.

Under the canopy of a huge cedar tree, in a clean and sandy, there was a large fire fed with thick
trunks, conifer branches and large chunks of amber, junior, which is very abundant in those endless
forests. The flare was gorgeous, the perfume rich, and the trees cast shadows Hadan play with
light in an admirable fashion. At around the campfire were kneeling in confusion as fifty people
- men and women, old and young, locals and bream - and all at once with a voice raucous and rhythmic,
but too expressive about their accent, sang a hymn mortuary!

... Novena was a neighbor who had died three days earlier and whose body was buried at a short
distance away.

The song was a set of prayers in verse, extravagant, made by the boatmen and always used around
novena, and the chorus, so incomprehensible in language as strong
in intonation, consisted of a species of quatrain verses of six syllables.

Three men first sang a verse, all responded with the refrain, and then three women sang another,
and so on.

I confess that in this wild scene, but full of the charm of faith and piety, found more poetry
and more religion in the songs of steam Bogotá.

       The intonation was deep and somber, solemn, in spite of its rustic
harmony, and I was in that scene a big impression and teaching.

Poetry is unquestionably the most sublime manifestations of the soul their relationship with God,
man and nature.

* * * * *

On February 2, Bogotá steam picked up his anchor, he released his whistle morning, similar to
the cry the wild, and shaking with iron wings the murky waves of Magdalena, slid rapidly among
the dense green canopies of the jungle, leaving his brilliant marked foam floating trail in
illuminating the morning sun.

What impression so profound experience the heart of the patriot, dreamer of progress, when
trusts for the first time, as a traveler, to the second initiative, to the invisible spirit
of humanity, transfused into mechanical power, called the steam! The wave humiliates, running
fugitive, to the conqueror that crosses without fear it and lashes
the wheels of her triumphal car, the monster in the water seeks its
hidden caves in abyss, realizing that the empire of the liquid element
belongs to an infinitely higher, and the hurricane, that Jupiter formless
breath destroyer, which prevails on solitudes of the wilderness of
the jungle, the sand and ocean, seems tame in the presence of opposed
to a travel writer who shocks supreme creation of the mysterious force
science triumphant!

The Vapor! Ah! what a sight for a man of faith! That summed up for me marvel all progress and
glory of man, all the divinity of this being made to moral likeness of God, carries in his mind
the immortal attributes intelligent and thoughtful soul, Each wheel, each cylinder, each member
of the machine Bogotá seemed the picture of each of muscles and vital organs of man, there was concreted
the whole story humanity, because that machine was inspired by the
man motion, strength, tenacity, genius, faith, life, spirit, light,
civilization, progress unlimited and eternal.

My soul was dominated by a deep meditation. Sitting on the foredeck, the side of the wheelhouse,
looked with great pleasure the transparent and blue sky, high the Andes mountains, forests, river
and how the picture was, and from the bottom of my grateful heart, bless all revolutions, the heroic
efforts and dedication of men and peoples, giving his blood to the
past, we have won to posterity the progress of today and the future.

       

* * * * *

Nare to the port of all is varied and picturesque, Rabbit down. The neighborhood the mountainous
terrain allows inflections, and so soon the traveler is surprised In view of the huge forests
or small plains that end at the river, and admire intermediary the lush vegetation, high petrified
sandstone rocks, the dark mouths the Tigrito and other streams whose channel seems an endless
grotto verdure waves Blue and Black rivers abundant and La Miel, which support one and other side
of the tape Turkey to its current, without mixing with the Magdalena at the beginning, the picturesque
village Buena-Vista, located on a ravine and surrounded by high walls
of a centuries-old forest, dark background on which the masts are
drawn from the coconut and the white wall of the chapel parish and
a thousand other things that contribute to give the landscape variety
and charm.

Nare little above the monotony begins and guarumos endless forests, tree light gray that looks
like a ghost in the skeleton, to give the banks an aspect of sadness and sterility. The sun burns
like an ember, heat, 36 degrees is sufocante, and desolation of nature begins. Nare is a district of
population and look miserable unhealthy, and that except two or three families, it contains
but rowers and people of Indo-African race. HOWEVER, it is a very important point for internal
trade, for the State scale of Antioquia, and a nearby nice, fairly
flow is navigated by barges and canoes seven leagues above its mouth.

Nare was augmented in the number of passengers with a sturdy Scottish, mine operator, a dentist,
which inevitably turned out to be Yankee, and Antioquia that, as soon as it entered steamed,
promoted a raffle, and began his speculations. The Antioquia, descendants mostly of an expedition
of Jews from the time of Philip III, are the Israelites New Granada,
in point of business and travel, even on open and empty bottles are
essentially British.

One mile down is the famous Angostura Nare, terror of the sailors, and out of it begins the region
of the gorgeous islands of vegetation, more and more numerous, because the Magdalena, widening
a lot about an area of ​​low-level flooding, endless as plain jungle diseminasus water in all
directions. For the rest, nature loses all their variety, - the vegetation, subject to floods,
appears skeleton, colorless and rough, and the hills out of sight
entirely.

Is no longer there but the desert immense, parched and no majesty or beauty.

On February 3 impressions what pleasant surprises, and pest and fatigue! First the encounter
the beautiful Vapor Antioquia, which rose from Barranquilla, light, color painted alive, like
a big bird, barely touching the waves of Magdalena. And there's screams happiness, the noisy greetings
among the passengers of both steam whistles gallant valves of locomotives, and teasing each
other sailors, spicy and original in the extreme. Steam Antioquia
had a strong loading of senators and representatives, undoubtedly
uninsured, and therefore his trip was doubly interesting. But each may do his part
without knowledge of what others do or without any reference to what they do; each may operate
simply for the sake of a separate result--his own pay. There is, in this case, no common consequence
to which the several acts are referred, and hence no genuine intercourse or association, in
spite of juxtaposition, and in spite of the fact that their respective doings contribute to
a single outcome. But if each views the consequences of his own acts as having a bearing upon
what others are doing and takes into account the consequences of their behavior upon himself,
then there is a common mind; a common intent in behavior. There is an understanding set up
between the different contributors; and this common understanding controls the action of each.
Suppose that conditions were so arranged that one person automatically caught a ball and then
threw it to another person who caught and automatically returned it; and that each so acted
without knowing where the ball came from or went to. Clearly, such action would be without
point or meaning. It might be physically controlled, but it would not be socially directed.
But suppose that each becomes aware of what the other is doing, and becomes interested in the
other's action and thereby interested in what he is doing himself as connected with the action
of the other. The behavior of each would then be intelligent; and socially intelligent and
guided. Take one more example of a less imaginary kind. An infant is hungry, and cries while
food is prepared in his presence. If he does not connect his own state with what others are
doing, nor what they are doing with his own satisfaction, he simply reacts with increasing
impatience to his own increasing discomfort. He is physically controlled by his own organic
state. But when he makes a back and forth reference, his whole attitude changes. He takes an
interest, as we say; he takes note and watches what others are doing. He no longer reacts just
to his own hunger, but behaves in the light of what others are doing for its prospective satisfaction.
In that way, he also no longer just gives way to hunger without knowing it, but he notes, or
recognizes, or identifies his own state. It becomes an object for him. His attitude toward
it becomes in some degree intelligent. So much more to thank and to estimate, therefore, the rare exception I had done
and Ines Beatriz.

All seated on the floor again, the favorite poet of the Countess,
who call Arthur gave Inesita conversation without also would stop
talking to her other suitors.

Don Braulio, although shocked and suspicious and start to become famous by his wife, spoke to more
serious and Machucha gentlemen.

Doña Beatriz and the Countess of San Teódulo spoke at length with each other and whispered,
remembering their old friendship.

A few minutes later the Countess of Dona Beatriz had demanded the
re-apear treatment the re-tutear as she remembered that back in the
village had familiarly.

Why refuse to so great kindness? The two friends tutearon in effect. And remember the reader
hearty villager was Rosita. Condesa was the same with those who deserved it.

- I can not understand - said Beatriz - how could you know so many people and then so many years.

-
My daughter - answered the Countess -, I will have limited understanding, but I have lots of memory
and, above all, lots of good will to those whom I cherish. We have recognized hundred thousand
people without history, without being prevented, without notice to you were you among them.
Also, what merit is there in me? Who sees you when you can not forget.

- Thank you, thank you confuse me with your praise indulgent and generous.

- I speak the truth. And then you have not changed in the face. Your body is another, you've
unwrapped, embarnecido you have something, you made a beautiful woman.

Praxiteles would you have taken as a model. These garments are no
doubt others of you today.

When we tried in the place you were a child. I saw fresh and tender then the bud, now I see
the rose, which has made all the luxury its lush aromatic corolla. But I repeat, face, expression,
looking ... nothing this has changed. When you talk you look like a married woman ... but
quietly ... look a girl, more candid ... more innocent than your
sister, who is also very cute.

- Anyway ... is unique ... no history
... not knowing I was in Madrid ...

- No, it does not.

I do not like to brag about what I should not.

I have recently learned that were in Madrid.

If I had known before I had gone to see your home.

- Who knows me? Who could tell you about me? My husband is a poor employee ...

- Will you say, but his intelligence and diligence are delighted the
Minister and full of envy to all staff of the Secretariat.

The Minister did not do more than talk your husband.

And what's with you, but you live so withdrawn, speak and many since,
few nights have you seen in these gardens.

- It is possible, women!

Want to make fun of me?

- Tired know you do not mock me.

- Do not
laugh because you're good, but you want to tease me.

It is true that I came here a few nights have, but nobody knew me.

- Then I knew and admired you.

Someone who is proudly weary of discontented, difficult, was so enchanted that I followed.

Doña Beatriz blushed again.

- How do you know? - Said.

- The told me.

- Who?

- Do you want to regale the ear? The Count of Alhedín, elegant flower, the most handsome of
our chickens.

- It would be my sister.

- That I have not said word count. It has simply say that I followed,
and made me the most brilliant of you praise. Ensure you have never
seen two women more beautiful and aristocratic in nature. Before coming
to me was the Count took reports, and I I do not know how the hell
had written that, despite your precipitate flight in a stingy, I already
knew how you called, where you lived, who you were, who was your husband,
and a thousand other things. It is clear that to tell me I realized
that you were the girls that had so I wanted in place, and entered
into a desire to see you again. If I tell you frankly, I've only been
here tonight to see if I was. I have people at home: a circle of friends.
There I ahead, and my husband is with them. Anyway, thank God that
I have found. Well supposed I you had to come because it is Sunday
night, when your husband does not have chores. The other night was
crazy what they did, believing that nobody would notice. Come alone
... two girls ... exposing the persecution of any uneducated fool!
... Not all are the cream of courtesy. Not all are like the Count
of Alhedín, which can distinguish to escape who has to deal with.

-
You are right - said Beatriz -, was a blunder, it was unwise to what
we did the other night. Even now it is usually treated as a kind of
adjunct to an alleged method of learning by direct contact with things, and as merely supplementing
knowledge of the physical world with knowledge of persons. The purport of our discussion is
that such a view makes an absurd and impossible separation between persons and things. Interaction
with things may form habits of external adjustment. But it leads to activity having a meaning
and conscious intent only when things are used to produce a result. And the only way one person
can modify the mind of another is by using physical conditions, crude or artificial, so as
to evoke some answering activity from him. Such are our two main conclusions. It is desirable
to amplify and enforce them by placing them in contrast with the theory which uses a psychology
of supposed direct relationships of human beings to one another as an adjunct to the psychology
of the supposed direct relation of an individual to physical objects. In substance, this so-called
social psychology has been built upon the notion of imitation. Consequently, we shall discuss
the nature and role of imitation in the formation of mental disposition.

According to this theory, social control of individuals rests upon the instinctive tendency
of individuals to imitate or copy the actions of others. The latter serve as models. The imitative
instinct is so strong that the young devote themselves to conforming to the patterns set by
others and reproducing them in their own scheme of behavior. According to our theory, what
is here called imitation is a misleading name for partaking with others in a use of things
which leads to consequences of common interest. The basic error in the current notion of imitation
is that it puts the cart before the horse. It takes an effect for the cause of the effect.
There can be no doubt that individuals in forming a social group are like-minded; they understand
one another. They tend to act with the same controlling ideas, beliefs, and intentions, given
similar circumstances. Looked at from without, they might be said to be engaged in "imitating"
one another. In the sense that they are doing much the same sort of thing in much the same
sort of way, this would be true enough. But "imitation" throws no light upon why they so act;
it repeats the fact as an explanation of itself. It is an explanation of the same order as
the famous saying that opium puts men to sleep because of its dormitive power.

Objective likeness of acts and the mental satisfaction found in being in conformity with others
are baptized by the name imitation. This social fact is then taken for a psychological force,
which produced the likeness. A considerable portion of what is called imitation is simply the
fact that persons being alike in structure respond in the same way to like stimuli. Quite independently
of imitation, men on being insulted get angry and attack the insulter. This statement may be
met by citing the undoubted fact that response to an insult takes place in different ways in
groups having different customs. In one group, it may be met by recourse to fisticuffs, in
another by a challenge to a duel, in a third by an exhibition of contemptuous disregard. This
happens, so it is said, because the model set for imitation is different. But there is no need
to appeal to imitation. The mere fact that customs are different means that the actual stimuli
to behavior are different. Conscious instruction plays a part; prior approvals and disapprovals
have a large influence. Still more effective is the fact that unless an individual acts in
the way current in his group, he is literally out of it. He can associate with others on intimate
and equal terms only by behaving in the way in which they behave. The pressure that comes from
the fact that one is let into the group action by acting in one way and shut out by acting
in another way is unremitting. What is called the effect of imitation is mainly the product
of conscious instruction and of the selective influence exercised by the unconscious confirmations
and ratifications of those with whom one associates.

Suppose that some one rolls a ball to a child; he catches it and rolls it back, and the game
goes on. Here the stimulus is not just the sight of the ball, or the sight of the other rolling
it. It is the situation--the game which is playing. The response is not merely rolling the
ball back; it is rolling it back so that the other one may catch and return it,--that the game
may continue. The "pattern" or model is not the action of the other person. The whole situation
requires that each should adapt his action in view of what the other person has done and is
to do. Imitation may come in but its role is subordinate. The child has an interest on his
own account; he wants to keep it going. He may then note how the other person catches and holds
the ball in order to improve his own acts. He imitates the means of doing, not the end or thing
to be done. And he imitates the means because he wishes, on his own behalf, as part of his
own initiative, to take an effective part in the game. One has only to consider how completely
the child is dependent from his earliest days for successful execution of his purposes upon
fitting his acts into those of others to see what a premium is put upon behaving as others
behave, and of developing an understanding of them in order that he may so behave. The pressure
for likemindedness in action from this source is so great that it is quite superfluous to appeal
to imitation. As matter of fact, imitation of ends, as distinct from imitation of means which
help to reach ends, is a superficial and transitory affair which leaves little effect upon
disposition. Idiots are especially apt at this kind of imitation; it affects outward acts but
not the meaning of their performance. When we find children engaging in this sort of mimicry,
instead of encouraging them (as we would do if it were an important means of social control)
we are more likely to rebuke them as apes, monkeys, parrots, or copy cats. Imitation of means
of accomplishment is, on the other hand, an intelligent act. It involves close observation,
and judicious selection of what will enable one to do better something which he already is
trying to do. Used for a purpose, the imitative instinct may, like any other instinct, become
a factor in the development of effective action.

This excursus should, accordingly, have the effect of reinforcing the conclusion that genuine
social control means the formation of a certain mental disposition; a way of understanding
objects, events, and acts which enables one to participate effectively in associated activities.
Only the friction engendered by meeting resistance from others leads to the view that it takes
place by forcing a line of action contrary to natural inclinations. Only failure to take account
of the situations in which persons are mutually concerned (or interested in acting responsively
to one another) leads to treating imitation as the chief agent in promoting social control.

4. Some Applications to Education. Why does a savage group perpetuate savagery, and a civilized
group civilization? Doubtless the first answer to occur to mind is because savages are savages;
being of low-grade intelligence and perhaps defective moral sense. But careful study has made
it doubtful whether their native capacities are appreciably inferior to those of civilized
man. It has made it certain that native differences are not sufficient to account for the difference
in culture. In a sense the mind of savage peoples is an effect, rather than a cause, of their
backward institutions. Their social activities are such as to restrict their objects of attention
and interest, and hence to limit the stimuli to mental development. Even as regards the objects
that come within the scope of attention, primitive social customs tend to arrest observation
and imagination upon qualities which do not fructify in the mind. Lack of control of natural
forces means that a scant number of natural objects enter into associated behavior. Only a
small number of natural resources are utilized and they are not worked for what they are worth.
The advance of civilization means that a larger number of natural forces and objects have been
transformed into instrumentalities of action, into means for securing ends. We start not so
much with superior capacities as with superior stimuli for evocation and direction of our capacities.
The savage deals largely with crude stimuli; we have weighted stimuli. Prior human efforts
have made over natural conditions. As they originally existed they were indifferent to human
endeavors. Every domesticated plant and animal, every tool, every utensil, every appliance,
every manufactured article, every esthetic decoration, every work of art means a transformation
of conditions once hostile or indifferent to characteristic human activities into friendly
and favoring conditions. Because the activities of children today are controlled by these selected
and charged stimuli, children are able to traverse in a short lifetime what the race has needed
slow, tortured ages to attain. 

Beatriz made a funny face that meant nothing.

- And then - said the countess - if you saw how good and how simple
and how sir!

Beatriz said nothing either to corroborate these praises.

Here came the Count, and San Teódulo was presented on Beatrice and her sister and Don Braulio.

It was the Count of recent school and last breeding, which boasts of spending little regard
with women, or if it was, could distinguish occasions and people, and knowing he would not win
with bold and sharply folded down on its prey, was to cut and shy
in the first moments.

He merely said some polite words to each of the two sisters, without too close to them, and
above all, without incurring the insolent vulgarity, in which now incur often men, reaching out to
the ladies just know them forcing them to slights or all of a sudden come to amicable terms of confidence.

Then
looked the most natural way to start a conversation with Don Braulio,
and as if a man so formal and weight as him, he entertained over half
an hour on important matters.

She further. Did something that seemed impossible, given what he was talkative, learned to shut
up, listen with attention and don Braulio compel him to speak, of which Don Braulio left happy.

Finally,
with general conversation, the Count dropped the reins to his good
humor, skewered thousand humorous blunders, always within the limits
not just of decency, but the more delicate manners, and enjoyed and
rejoiced at the meeting, be making nice to everyone.

Thus prepared the minds, when they had just struck eleven, and abandon the proposed Condesa
Gardens and all go home to tea. Don Braulio, although it had laughed at the thanks Earl and was
glad that he had heard discreet, scales both gift and was not a little startled to see how it
was getting into the big trot world, but could not resist. The Countess was going to take up her
house in his car. Then, from the house of the Countess to the Don
Braulio had a few steps to go.

Raided and the difficulties it would have been rude not to accept the invitation.

Don Braulio thus accepted in the company of his wife and Ines, the
four in the same Landau open that night was an intimate gathering
to the daily running of the Countess of San Teódulo.

X

In general, no gathering or meeting for fun where no dancing or to play cards. Without sitting for the
elderly and no polkas and waltzes for the young, all usually bored.

Is admirable, therefore, a gathering, like our Condesa, where only had fun chatting with people.
The woman who manages to have a chat and can boast have put a pike in Flanders. Know how many
of these businesses will be recognized worldly in women who preside over such gatherings uncommon
gifts of understanding.

Other singular virtues shone also in Rosita. It was so good as a bad friend for the enemy. Her
husband wanted, cared for him and petted him as the most faithful and consort lover. This had
not prevented it had estimated later and want it any other way and other shades and hues of
honey.

Women usually do not understand that there is only one baby, giving full someone or distributed
in this way or the other. Rosita was not. Rosita felt understood and various affections, not
destroying each other and are harmonized nicely. The Count of San Teodulo loved him in a way,
his poet wanted another, and these feelings, own and exclusive of
women arose others that seemed to start the fund essential spirit
where there is no difference of woman and man of principle neutral,
before you purchase determination sexual.

I mean that Rosita loved many of his commentators to a friend similar to what a man can feel for
another man, with a sweetness most ineffable her as a woman, and even pretty woman, manages
to put into this friendship, completely oblivious all feel love.

The first of these friends was the Comte de Rosita Alhedín. Between Rosita and the Count had
not secrets. Everything is trusted.

The Earl looked at her friend consolation for their troubles and tips for your difficulties.
Rosita Condesito admired talent: we laughed all jokes, was that no one was more discreet than he,
nor her poet and her husband were worth Pitoche next to Conde, and he had made any sacrifice
Rosita. Never, however, and the Count had thought of love to Rosita and love it in the count.

So
poetic relations based on mutual esteem, to Rosita was Alhedín Count
as an oracle, especially when it came to science that we dare to call
Aesthetics social, that is, to qualify people, and actions and things,
stylish, of distinguished and beautiful.

A sentence of Count Alhedín on ugly or pretty, on good tone and bad tone on distinction or lack
of distinction, was appealed to Rosita.

This will include their sudden enthusiasm for his old friends there. Count it had described as
two portents, and Rosita had taken for granted that they were.

Wishing then show them off at their gathering, happy to see the enthusiasm of so competent judge
The Count fell on his nearly countrywomen, and hoping that the Count of known and tried, sought
and found, as we have seen Beatrice and Agnes.

The Count himself, as he saw them, had come to tell who came through which was easily tired Rosita
recognize.

Moreover, neither in this plan was sinful, or Machiavellian purpose or any concert between the
Count of Alhedín and confidant. Nothing had been hatched against the virtue and Beatrice or against
the innocence of Agnes, nor against the rest of Don Braulio honored.

Rosita looked with joy and pride to their semi-countrywomen, confident in the praise of the Count. When
finding them, or because they were well-disposed, either because they deserved it all, he
seemed better, each in his style, which he had said the Count. And Rosita was not envious, when
there was no jealousy or emulation by, wished well to all her friends and was honest about Beatriz had
spoken.

I went through your mind that your home could Inesita find a good boyfriend, felt at home may come
out of its dark Don Braulio, and as he has judged bird came to fingírsele
in a short time or Director General or Minister, making a thousand
businesses use to the country, and especially her husband, and did
not seem not unlikely that at home and the Count of Beatrice finds
himself falling hopelessly Alhedín from each other, but this could
not manage to see Rosita, as happens, and it occurred with due caution,
nothing tragic, or even unpleasant to Don Braulio who, as she had
said, it was really nice, and who was already very high concept.

With such ideas about their new, or rather, restarted friends, the Countess of San Teódulo burst
into kindness.

Beatrice was in the party happy and charming. Pleased to be served and pampered for all, rejected the
shortness and took the land, as if he were already in those who attend
classrooms.

Everyone, even the most difficult, admired his ingenuity to match its beauty, and celebrated
the natural simplicity of his manner, his is not learned but innate elegance and their spontaneous
Andalusian charm. Although the intoxication of success Beatriz tended to talk too much, I knew
restraint and to not be tempered by brash and talkative. Through their thoughtful prudence was
therefore unbeatable.

Ines, for style, was also very good. His Olympic serenity, its calm divine, not abandoned for
a moment.

In luxury and splendor of this house, previously unknown for her, she felt, as his sister, who rose to
head something like vapors of champagne, and without the rustic jungle indifference, and without
the affected contempt of vain and proud, not wondered about anything, showing that he understood
and believed it all, but was not foreign to your condition. In short: Ines was in the party
as it might have been a real princess, for whom all these festivities were a proper element,
or rather, were below the item that she was breathing and that his soul alive.

The serenity of Agnes might have passed for pride if it were not softened
by a gentle angelic perhaps been confused with apathy foolish, if
in the light of her eyes, clear and profound at the same time, intelligence
will not fire.

Who fixed his gaze on that of she believed to penetrate through magical crystals within an enchanted
palace filled mystery, or imagined sinking to the bottom of clear
lake, beautiful village and vague creations, whose divine contours
could not quite understand intently, because the most Sigh slight
aura of pure curling waves, and these, without loss in clarity or
purity every image faded and vanished.

As for Don Braulio, must be confessed he was quite cramped and out of place in such gatherings.

We
know that it was very escamón, as they say on their land.

So while disguised with ability, was with the beard on his shoulder and fingers seemed guests.
He was smart, but boasted ladino, and came to be about malicious. He was therefore one of the
party very different concept of Dona Beatriz had formed.

Although Don Braulio had lived mostly in places and small towns of the province, and but in
Seville, during the first years of their marriage, had been retiradísimo without never deal with
what they call the great world, he conceived and understood him more
beautiful than now presented itself.

He hesitated, therefore, that the great world was pure, but Fake I imitate him, as is imitation
gold ormolu. And in this way was beyond what is reasonable and made judgments adventurous,
understanding all the grotesque and Trabuco things.

Los Condes de San Teódulo seemed a if Counts not stick, and while the gathering was subject
of true worth and class, the concept was a bit cloudy that Don Braulio
masters of the house had to project a certain dark shadow on the house
that attended.

In almost no one thought right. Strange human condition! One only won of course confidence,
one just seemed elegant, distinguished, noble completely discreet, distinguished, elegant, sweet
and fair: The Count of Alhedín.

Seeing often whispering Rosita and be home more carefree than the others, Don Braulio, going
from ready on this occasion, made a settlement there in his mind,
and decided the Earl of Alhedín represented in that house on paper
than in reality represented the poet Arthur.

Back inside the Don Braulio Conde graciously spared this loss, and considering their excellent
qualities, and without fear of anything on this side, almost intimate with him.

Instead, the poet, who was very nosy, which of course treated with the utmost confidence the two
sisters, who approached a lot to talk to them, and by bad manners
as being somewhat short-sighted, and began to Beatrice in verse and
prose infinite compliments, Don Braulio took grudge and looked like
a Don Juan Tenorio needy and third or fourth class.

Anyway, Don Braulio not loved the gathering, but Don Braulio had a pattern for his conduct, which
had decided not to depart.

As it is society, which would be the ideal he had of the great world, the fact was that the
house of the Counts of San Teódulo was a respectable house, where
any other in place, would have been thrilled to be admitted.

I could think Don Braulio it wanted to Rosita and her husband could denigrate, in the depths of his
severe awareness, gathering with their commentators, but to the world, under the conditions
of this life we ​​live, could not resist, bypassing ferret, by jealous and tyrant his wife to continue
going to that gathering.

Don Braulio would not also include his wife with sermons or severely, or mandates. She wanted
only love for love. His plan was laid out.

Could not and should oppose Beatriz treated Rosita and to strengthen bonds of friendship with her.
Conveníale finally give notice to his wife about the moral value of Rosita, to not deceive, but
hide then his anger if his wife was treating. And this was Don Braulio.

Some might think that Don Braulio did wrong and I was weak in character. Here we do not give
as paragon of strength. I paint as it is.

We will say, however, as fertilizer, which are very rare Cato. All are reported behavior the
servants they will receive at home, and one of those people they
are dealing with and intimate with his wife and daughters, provided
that such persons to save face and not frowned upon in the world.

In short, and with tolerance, and with the blessing of Don Braulio,
and Ines Beatriz, since that night on, kept going frequently to socialize
Countess San Teodulo and being his most precious and attractive ornaments.

Rosita

also sometimes carried them in his company, and the theater, and to the Gardens, and the walk, and
eat at home.

Don Braulio, as his duties or his humor, was or was not with his wife and sister to these entertainment
and parties, to which Rosie was always careful to invite him.

XI

It was months since the night he first had appeared in the gathering of the Countess Don Braulio,
his wife and sister.

All the wise reflections of Don Braulio his wife had been in vain.

Beatriz liked to shine in society, and to this consideration was
of little importance to the advice of its husband.

Seemed to him perhaps exaggerated musings of a man and elder.

Do not know her that deep down Don Braulio had some reason to argue
that the gathering of San Teódulo was not the truly great world, it
was the legitimate good tone, but could bring her husband this great
world?

Certainly not.

Was, then, abandon it to go anywhere; had follow enclosed within
four walls in the prime of his youth, and to condemn Inesita same
punishment because it was a perfect society, in every way, where to
apply?

In various discussions that took Beatrice and her husband about this business, always made silence
and emerged victorious.

His arguments were, indeed, difficult to refute. For all had an answer.

- The Countess of San Teódulo has a bad reputation - said Don Braulio.

- It is a calumny - answered Beatrice.

- What if what is said against it is founded?

- So ... What will you do? A well that is not contagious.

- I concede that not give the spread when there is no predisposition to do so, but unless you
grant me that transcends the bad reputation, that the gossip is not only fattening who deserves
it, but people around who deserve it, even if they are not complicit
own.

- That may be true, but, by dint of wanting to prove much, proves
nothing.

If every woman virtuous, with only dealt with one that is not exposed to confuse and equate
their behavior with her friend, it is best not dealt with anyone,
living as in the tomb.

What? Am I going to ask for a certificate under the women you speak? You say that the San Teodulo
big world is not true. Will there be more virtue in women's real big world? Do not speak of them as
we talk about my friend? Well, if you go down, if you intend I deal with women's clerk, the janitor
or the clerk, where do you infer I you find in them all the severity
of Lucretia?

Are you perhaps related virtue in the humble people? Honesty Is the exclusive privilege of
needy females? Kid yourself, Braulio; what you want is to live here so alone and in Seville, facts
about ferrets, without dealing with a soul.

As for me I resign ... to give you taste, but well know it is very hard ... I'm still young ...
You, busy in your Registry and your studies, just follow me. Do I have to live in eternal soliloquy?
And then, poor Inesita ... not has, like me, a husband who ay who love to please, why should
it be victim of that whim of yours?

Such arguments wielded invincible power in the soul of Don Braulio. Nothing was that answer them,
and was silent.

Beatriz, seeing him silent and nearly exhausted, gave him a loving look, she smiled sweetly
I was a baby, and Don Braulio had to undergo. Not only was then able to prohibit to go to the
gathering of the San Teódulo, but had no right to oppose any madness that occurred to his wife.

There,
in the interior of his soul, Don Braulio gave reason at all, not merely by the professed affection
for him, but for the making of his intellect and the condition and character their ideas.

"What right do I have - he said to himself - so that this beautiful woman, so discreet, so funny
so on purpose to be the charm and wonder of those who try to be buried alive in punishment for
loving me and took me for a husband?

What right do I have to impose also the same penalty on her pretty sister, younger still and
not least in order to look the world? So it's ridiculous that I please be virtuous society they
frequent. Where I find it? Society is not virtuous or vicious. What are the people who compose it.
And the vice is more common virtue. "

Sometimes thought Don Braulio:

"If I banned my wife that was to accompany the Rosita, everyone who knew or presumed to be make
fun of me ... and with good reason. I would distrust samples not I honor and honor to my life partner.
Would believe that the suspected light or easily. My wife would exert against a tyrannical act, which
would also have something libelous. She would then have reason to stop loving me ... to hate
... maybe to despise. "

The mere assumption that his wife came to not love him, hate him or despise him ... waving nerves
unhappy. He was agitated, as if the sky were to fall out over, and only calmed down, just passing
tempest of his soul, when tears came to his eyes and vented with them the feeling of the heart.

Ines
Beatriz and were therefore in complete freedom to go to Rosita everywhere, and not failed to
seize it. Don Braulio became complicit in this, accompanied not infrequently. Then I used to feel
the most opposite emotions. Some were nice, some very unpleasant but all cleverly concealed by
him.

The Don Braulio unpleasant emotions born of distrust of himself, tormented him. Recognized tired,
melancholy, old, slightly pleasant, shabby, inelegant, and each see step understanding men whose
clothes, whose moral worth, whose soul, in short, we seemed far inferior
to what in his own being noticed and appreciated, but they were at
the same time, so superior to him in all that noticeable and more
easily estimated, for example, distinction and ease of manner, youth,
physical beauty, health and vigor, amenity and joy in treatment, lightness
and grace in conversation, he looked like inexplicable prodigy his
wife did not liked, rather than him, of any of these men.

Corroborated in his mind persuasion so sad thinking skills that he seen in men, and which was
deemed inadequate. The waltz was his despair. It a man admired waltz well, it seemed beautiful,
lovely waltz, and said to yourself, "What will my wife from me, not waltz?" More still admired by
young people hunt, pulling a gun and the foil, skating, riding on horseback, and are agile and
strong for all this.

Even those who deal or are graceful in calves caused her tricycle envy. Back in his conscience, yet
secret, declaring to himself our Don Braulio that being a woman,
he would be very close to falling in love with a handsome young man
who had such skills.

So he gave the unhappy the devil, and had made a pact with fixed him surrendering his soul,
if the overnight he had become clumsy in fast and of puny in robust, granting under skating, waltz,
ride, fence, fight, hunting and cycles.

Don Braulio just wanted to believe in spiritualism of women when they often prefer to the above
skills other manly virtues, but even so, what evidence there given
him these other virtues?

What battle was won? What poem was written? What speech was delivered in Parliament? How much
money was earned in the stock market in the game or business? What picture was painted? What
statue was carved? What brand system philosophy had created in his mind? What new machine or contrivance
had given the industry human?

Don Braulio is plunged in such meditations, and out of them so mean and base their own eyes,
which instilled shame. He was unnerved and prostrate.

He looked at his wife, which was really beautiful, elegant, discreet. Appeared to him worthy of
a throne worthy of going in magnificent carriages, stepping Alcatifa of Persia, lace dress silks
and delicious, to receive adoration of the wise and brave and rich, to award merit, skill,
poetry, science and daring with a sweet look of love. Y as Don Braulio had done nothing to earn
the award, almost persuaded that he was usurping, that was a miserable
possessor.

Doña Beatriz, meanwhile, was delighted to all men of the party of her friend. His joy was talkative,
his speech, delightful. Said a thousand jokes, subtle and shrewd, to be applauded and loved even
more for the accent in Seville with that said, the term its face, the brightness of his eyes and
the fresh red lips and white, the same and clenched teeth, including soft gushing, Argentina
and easy and spontaneous sympathetic word. She knew also instill love and respect. They who covet
her beauty the fenced reverent.

So the poet Arthur stopped too close and contented himself with bend the lens for a better
view.

In contemplating this pleasant emotions born of Don Braulio. So admired woman and coveted was
his. Which, perhaps, or safe and perhaps inspire many men love of worth, which at a glance,
with a slight favor, could have been filled with pride and happiness, just loved him, and he
just kept all the tenderness of his heart, and all the treasure of
beauty, as desired and commended.

Don Braulio, however, was one of
those creatures who all thrill hard grata little, who suddenly comes
the sad thought that poisons such emotion.

"But why - they said -
I'm the one she loves, the only happy, the owner of the treasure,
that holds the key to your heart? By chance, first, for having found
a place where no one had that competed with me. And then, of a contract
set by religion: by a moral, legal and religious, that drives him
to love me in an exclusive manner. If the latter, one or the other
was her husband, rather than be me, do not you want as I want? Who
knows? Perhaps you would like more. "

Then he remembered Don Braulio
and analyzed in his mind all touch, every word of love, any sign of
sympathy, and it struggled to find what can only come from love, away
duty which, coupled with kindness and compassion even, perhaps appropriate.
Almost always got this analysis that all evaporated in goodness, in
compliance with an obligation, desire not to grieve, in gratitude,
and nothing left to love in the bottom of the retort, where her wicked
criticism had made all of the samples convoluted love Dona Beatriz
had given him when they married. A habit
is to him something which has a hold on him, something not easily thrown off even though judgment
condemn it.

Habits reduce themselves to routine ways of acting, or degenerate into ways of action to which
we are enslaved just in the degree in which intelligence is disconnected from them. Routine
habits are unthinking habits: "bad" habits are habits so severed from reason that they are
opposed to the conclusions of conscious deliberation and decision. As we have seen, the acquiring
of habits is due to an original plasticity of our natures: to our ability to vary responses
till we find an appropriate and efficient way of acting. Routine habits, and habits that possess
us instead of our possessing them, are habits which put an end to plasticity. They mark the
close of power to vary. There can be no doubt of the tendency of organic plasticity, of the
physiological basis, to lessen with growing years. The instinctively mobile and eagerly varying
action of childhood, the love of new stimuli and new developments, too easily passes into a
"settling down," which means aversion to change and a resting on past achievements. Only an
environment which secures the full use of intelligence in the process of forming habits can
counteract this tendency. Of course, the same hardening of the organic conditions affects the
physiological structures which are involved in thinking. But this fact only indicates the need
of persistent care to see to it that the function of intelligence is invoked to its maximum
possibility. The short-sighted method which falls back on mechanical routine and repetition
to secure external efficiency of habit, motor skill without accompanying thought, marks a deliberate
closing in of surroundings upon growth.

3. The Educational Bearings of the Conception of Development. We have had so far but little
to say in this chapter about education. We have been occupied with the conditions and implications
of growth. If our conclusions are justified, they carry with them, however, definite educational
consequences. When it is said that education is development, everything depends upon how development
is conceived. Our net conclusion is that life is development, and that developing, growing,
is life. Translated into its educational equivalents, that means (i) that the educational process
has no end beyond itself; it is its own end; and that (ii) the educational process is one of
continual reorganizing, reconstructing, transforming.

1. Development when it is interpreted in comparative terms, that is, with respect to the special
traits of child and adult life, means the direction of power into special channels: the formation
of habits involving executive skill, definiteness of interest, and specific objects of observation
and thought. But the comparative view is not final. The child has specific powers; to ignore
that fact is to stunt or distort the organs upon which his growth depends. The adult uses his
powers to transform his environment, thereby occasioning new stimuli which redirect his powers
and keep them developing. Ignoring this fact means arrested development, a passive accommodation.
Normal child and normal adult alike, in other words, are engaged in growing. The difference
between them is not the difference between growth and no growth, but between the modes of growth
appropriate to different conditions. With respect to the development of powers devoted to coping
with specific scientific and economic problems we may say the child should be growing in manhood.
With respect to sympathetic curiosity, unbiased responsiveness, and openness of mind, we may
say that the adult should be growing in childlikeness. One statement is as true as the other.

Three ideas which have been criticized, namely, the merely privative nature of immaturity,
static adjustment to a fixed environment, and rigidity of habit, are all connected with a false
idea of growth or development,--that it is a movement toward a fixed goal. Growth is regarded
as having an end, instead of being an end. The educational counterparts of the three fallacious
ideas are first, failure to take account of the instinctive or native powers of the young;
secondly, failure to develop initiative in coping with novel situations; thirdly, an undue
emphasis upon drill and other devices which secure automatic skill at the expense of personal
perception. In all cases, the adult environment is accepted as a standard for the child. He
is to be brought up to it.

Natural instincts are either disregarded or treated as nuisances--as obnoxious traits to be
suppressed, or at all events to be brought into conformity with external standards. Since conformity
is the aim, what is distinctively individual in a young person is brushed aside, or regarded
as a source of mischief or anarchy. Conformity is made equivalent to uniformity. Consequently,
there are induced lack of interest in the novel, aversion to progress, and dread of the uncertain
and the unknown. Since the end of growth is outside of and beyond the process of growing, external
agents have to be resorted to to induce movement toward it. Whenever a method of education
is stigmatized as mechanical, we may be sure that external pressure is brought to bear to reach
an external end.

2. Since in reality there is nothing to which growth is relative save more growth, there is
nothing to which education is subordinate save more education. It is a commonplace to say that
education should not cease when one leaves school. The point of this commonplace is that the
purpose of school education is to insure the continuance of education by organizing the powers
that insure growth. The inclination to learn from life itself and to make the conditions of
life such that all will learn in the process of living is the finest product of schooling.

When we abandon the attempt to define immaturity by means of fixed comparison with adult accomplishments,
we are compelled to give up thinking of it as denoting lack of desired traits. Abandoning this
notion, we are also forced to surrender our habit of thinking of instruction as a method of
supplying this lack by pouring knowledge into a mental and moral hole which awaits filling.
Since life means growth, a living creature lives as truly and positively at one stage as at
another, with the same intrinsic fullness and the same absolute claims. Hence education means
the enterprise of supplying the conditions which insure growth, or adequacy of life, irrespective
of age. We first look with impatience upon immaturity, regarding it as something to be got
over as rapidly as possible. Then the adult formed by such educative methods looks back with
impatient regret upon childhood and youth as a scene of lost opportunities and wasted powers.
This ironical situation will endure till it is recognized that living has its own intrinsic
quality and that the business of education is with that quality. Realization that life is growth
protects us from that so-called idealizing of childhood which in effect is nothing but lazy
indulgence. Life is not to be identified with every superficial act and interest. Even though
it is not always easy to tell whether what appears to be mere surface fooling is a sign of
some nascent as yet untrained power, we must remember that manifestations are not to be accepted
as ends in themselves. They are signs of possible growth. They are to be turned into means
of development, of carrying power forward, not indulged or cultivated for their own sake. Excessive
attention to surface phenomena (even in the way of rebuke as well as of encouragement) may
lead to their fixation and thus to arrested development. What impulses are moving toward, not
what they have been, is the important thing for parent and teacher. The true principle of respect
for immaturity cannot be better put than in the words of Emerson: "Respect the child. Be not
too much his parent. Trespass not on his solitude. But I hear the outcry which replies to this
suggestion: Would you verily throw up the reins of public and private discipline; would you
leave the young child to the mad career of his own passions and whimsies, and call this anarchy
a respect for the child's nature? I answer,--Respect the child, respect him to the end, but
also respect yourself.... The two points in a boy's training are, to keep his naturel and train
off all but that; to keep his naturel, but stop off his uproar, fooling, and horseplay; keep
his nature and arm it with knowledge in the very direction in which it points." And as Emerson
goes on to show this reverence for childhood and youth instead of opening up an easy and easy-going
path to the instructors, "involves at once, immense claims on the time, the thought, on the
life of the teacher. It requires time, use, insight, event, all the great lessons and assistances
of God; and only to think of using it implies character and profoundness."

Summary. Power to grow depends upon need for others and plasticity. Both of these conditions
are at their height in childhood and youth. Plasticity or the power to learn from experience
means the formation of habits. Habits give control over the environment, power to utilize it
for human purposes. Habits take the form both of habituation, or a general and persistent balance
of organic activities with the surroundings, and of active capacities to readjust activity
to meet new conditions. The former furnishes the background of growth; the latter constitute
growing. Active habits involve thought, invention, and initiative in applying capacities to
new aims. They are opposed to routine which marks an arrest of growth. Since growth is the
characteristic of life, education is all one with growing; it has no end beyond itself. The
criterion of the value of school education is the extent in which it creates a desire for continued
growth and supplies means for making the desire effective in fact.

1 Intimations of its significance are found in a number of writers, but John Fiske, in his
Excursions of an Evolutionist, is accredited with its first systematic exposition.

2 This conception is, of course, a logical correlate of the conceptions of the external relation
of stimulus and response, considered in the last chapter, and of the negative conceptions of
immaturity and plasticity noted in this chapter.

Chapter Five: Preparation, Unfolding, and Formal Discipline

1. Education as Preparation. We have laid it down that the educative process is a continuous
process of growth, having as its aim at every stage an added capacity of growth. This conception
contrasts sharply with other ideas which have influenced practice. By making the contrast explicit,
the meaning of the conception will be brought more clearly to light. The first contrast is
with the idea that education is a process of preparation or getting ready. What is to be prepared
for is, of course, the responsibilities and privileges of adult life. Children are not regarded
as social members in full and regular standing. They are looked upon as candidates; they are
placed on the waiting list. The conception is only carried a little farther when the life of
adults is considered as not having meaning on its own account, but as a preparatory probation
for "another life." The idea is but another form of the notion of the negative and privative
character of growth already criticized; hence we shall not repeat the criticisms, but pass
on to the evil consequences which flow from putting education on this basis. In the first place,
it involves loss of impetus. Motive power is not utilized. Children proverbially live in the
present; that is not only a fact not to be evaded, but it is an excellence. The future just
as future lacks urgency and body. To get ready for something, one knows not what nor why, is
to throw away the leverage that exists, and to seek for motive power in a vague chance. Under
such circumstances, there is, in the second place, a premium put on shilly-shallying and procrastination.
The future prepared for is a long way off; plenty of time will intervene before it becomes
a present. Why be in a hurry about getting ready for it? The temptation to postpone is much
increased because the present offers so many wonderful opportunities and proffers such invitations
to adventure. Naturally attention and energy go to them; education accrues naturally as an
outcome, but a lesser education than if the full stress of effort had been put upon making
conditions as educative as possible. A third undesirable result is the substitution of a conventional
average standard of expectation and requirement for a standard which concerns the specific
powers of the individual under instruction. For a severe and definite judgment based upon the
strong and weak points of the individual is substituted a vague and wavering opinion concerning
what youth may be expected, upon the average, to become in some more or less remote future;
say, at the end of the year, when promotions are to take place, or by the time they are ready
to go to college or to enter upon what, in contrast with the probationary stage, is regarded
as the serious business of life. It is impossible to overestimate the loss which results from
the deflection of attention from the strategic point to a comparatively unproductive point.
It fails most just where it thinks it is succeeding--in getting a preparation for the future.

Finally, the principle of preparation makes necessary recourse on a large scale to the use
of adventitious motives of pleasure and pain. The future having no stimulating and directing
power when severed from the possibilities of the present, something must be hitched on to it
to make it work. Promises of reward and threats of pain are employed. Healthy work, done for
present reasons and as a factor in living, is largely unconscious. The stimulus resides in
the situation with which one is actually confronted. But when this situation is ignored, pupils
have to be told that if they do not follow the prescribed course penalties will accrue; while
if they do, they may expect, some time in the future, rewards for their present sacrifices.
Everybody knows how largely systems of punishment have had to be resorted to by educational
systems which neglect present possibilities in behalf of preparation for a future. Then, in
disgust with the harshness and impotency of this method, the pendulum swings to the opposite
extreme, and the dose of information required against some later day is sugar-coated, so that
pupils may be fooled into taking something which they do not care for.

It is not of course a question whether education should prepare for the future. If education
is growth, it must progressively realize present possibilities, and thus make individuals better
fitted to cope with later requirements. Growing is not something which is completed in odd
moments; it is a continuous leading into the future. If the environment, in school and out,
supplies conditions which utilize adequately the present capacities of the immature, the future
which grows out of the present is surely taken care of. The mistake is not in attaching importance
to preparation for future need, but in making it the mainspring of present effort. Because
the need of preparation for a continually developing life is great, it is imperative that every
energy should be bent to making the present experience as rich and significant as possible.
Then as the present merges insensibly into the future, the future is taken care of.

2. Education as Unfolding. There is a conception of education which professes to be based upon
the idea of development. But it takes back with one hand what it proffers with the other. Development
is conceived not as continuous growing, but as the unfolding of latent powers toward a definite
goal. The goal is conceived of as completion,--perfection. Life at any stage short of attainment
of this goal is merely an unfolding toward it. Logically the doctrine is only a variant of
the preparation theory. Practically the two differ in that the adherents of the latter make
much of the practical and professional duties for which one is preparing, while the developmental
doctrine speaks of the ideal and spiritual qualities of the principle which is unfolding.

The conception that growth and progress are just approximations to a final unchanging goal
is the last infirmity of the mind in its transition from a static to a dynamic understanding
of life. It simulates the style of the latter. It pays the tribute of speaking much of development,
process, progress. But all of these operations are conceived to be merely transitional; they
lack meaning on their own account. They possess significance only as movements toward something
away from what is now going on. Since growth is just a movement toward a completed being, the
final ideal is immobile. An abstract and indefinite future is in control with all which that
connotes in depreciation of present power and opportunity.

Since the goal of perfection, the standard of development, is very far away, it is so beyond
us that, strictly speaking, it is unattainable. I'll just say that most of life applications
are based on this principle: the simultaneous existence of two beings observed by dilated time, allows
to conclude that there also exist one another. Without giving to secure this rule, the common
man could not act, and the philosophers themselves would find more embarrassed of what may be
contained. Darian few steps more than the vulgar.

The 2 nd. rule is very similar to the first: it is based on the same principles, and applies to
these uses. The constant experience shows that chicken out of an egg, nobody even now has explained
satisfactorily how the liquor contained in the shell that is formed little body so admirably
organized, and even when science give the reason fulfilled phenomenon, the common people would
not know, and yet neither this nor the scholars are hesitant to believe that there a relationship
of dependency between the liquor and the chick, to see the small living, all we are confident
that preceded it that mass was presented to our eyes report and awkward.

The

generality of men, or better say, everyone completely ignore how attends the topsoil seed development
and plant growth, nor which is the reason why some land is better suited than others to certain
products; but he has always been so, and this is sufficient for establishing that a thing depends
another, and to seeing the second infer without fear of missing the existence of the first.

§
IV.

Observations on the relationship of chance. A rule of dialectic.

But the difference should be noted that the succession is observed only once, or repeated many. In
the first case, not only argues no chance, but even no relationship class, in 2 º. does not always
indicate dependence on cause and effect, but at less dependence a common cause. If the flow
and ebb of the sea had been observed that one that coincided again with a certain position
of the moon, could not be inferred that there was a relationship between two phenomena, but
remain constant expressed coincidence, physicists must infer that if one does not cause the
other, at least they both have a common cause, and thus are related
in origin.

Despite what I just said, have many reasons when branded a sophistic dialectic following reasoning:
post hoc, ergo propter hoc, after this, then why. 1 º.

Because they do not speak of a constant succession, 2 º. because even when you speak, this
succession can dependence indicate a common cause, not that one is because of that.

While it is noted, the same rule to attend to ordinary business, it is more general of what
might appear at first sight: we use it in the ordinary course of things, one's fate with regard to
nature. According to the object in question amending the application of the rule: in some cases
just an experience of rare, in others it requires more repeated,
but basically we are always guided by the same principle: two things
that always happen, a dependency has to others, the existence of a
indicated as the other.

§ V.

An example.

It's night and I see that on top of a mountain is lit a fire, to little time to burn, I notice
that on the opposite mountain overlooking a light shines briefly and disappears. This has left
after the fire on the opposite side, but here I can not infer that between the two events have
some relationship. The next day, I see again that goes on fire in the same place, and that just
shows the light. The coincidence of yesterday I had not even stopped, and my attention today,
but this may be a fluke, and not think about it anymore. The next day the same thing happens,
the suspicion grows that there is a signal.

For a month is verified the same; the time is always the same, but never lack the appearance
of light to burn some fire, then I do not doubt or The fact is dependent on the other, or at least
some connection between them, and no longer but I need to figure out what a novelty that I fail
to understand.

In such cases, the secret to discovering the truth, and prevent unfounded lawsuits, is to attend
to all the circumstances of fact, without neglecting any of negligible it may seem. So in the
example above, assuming that little power to fire is presented light, diráse at first sight,
it is not necessary to stand in the hour of the night, and neither If this time is on or not.
But in reality these circumstances were very important was because, according to the time, was more
or less likely to appear big fire and light; and being always the same, it was much less likely
that the relationship they had two events that if it had been mixed. An unwise not to notice
anything like that, alarmed the region with the intended signal, and would not fit doubt that
some criminals agree, be explained without difficulty robbery that happened this or that day,
they understand what he meant a shot that was heard in that quarter, and the authority would have notice
of the evil plot, when black and suspicions would fall on innocent families, behold explorers
sent to observe closely the mystery, could very well go back and laughing at the horror scared,
and deciphering the enigma in the following terms: "Very near the top where fire burns, lies
the home of the family A, which bedtime to a guard deliberately nearby, it is reported that
some loggers want to spoil part of the forest replanted. The Sentinel feels cold, and does very
well in non-light a fire to scare anyone, but is to secur the miscreants and rope. As this is fully
hour at bedtime often their neighbors, so does the family that lives in the B summit of the
mountain opposite. At the sound of the clock, lifting the actual owner of the fireplace says
to everyone: "let's go to sleep," and in the meantime he goes to a terrace which gives several
doors, and pushes the outside to test if the boys have closed properly.

As the good man is going to be collected, has in hand a candle, and HEOS mysterious light here
came out at the same hour, and disappeared shortly, coinciding with the fire and making it almost
passing thief who just tried to guard against thieves.

What should I do in this case a good thinker? See here. A little time on the fire appears light,
and always at the same hour, more or less, which is inclined to believe that a signal. The country
is at peace with this understanding should be wrongdoers. But overall is not likely to be,
because it is not always choose the regular one time and place at risk of being noticed and discovered.
Also that the operation would be very Long lasting a month, and these businesses usually rounded
off with a coup de main. For those houses are near A and B, families of good reputation that they
have gone to fact.

So it seems that there must be coincidence or pure chance, or if
there are signs, should be about business that does not fear the eyes
of justice.

Event Time is exactly as collected the residents of this earth, let's
see if this will not be that some tasks oblige one to light a fire,
and others to make the light.

§ VI.

Reflections on the previous example.

Reflecting on the above example, note that in spite of the sign no relationship or cause, which
itself had the two events, however somehow recognize the same origin: sonar bedtime. This will
check to see that the error was in assuming that there was something common in them, or think
that the coincidence was purely accidental, but that it appealed
to interpretations devoid of foundation, was sought in the intention
concerted people what was the simple effect of the identity of the
hour.

This observation shows on the one hand the wisdom that must precede the class determine in relation
to each other have two events, simultaneous or successive, but otherwise confirmed more and more
the rule given, that when the simultaneity or succession are consistent, they argue any link
or connection, or of the facts to each other, or both with a third party.

§ VII.

The reason of an act that seems instinctive.

Delving more matter, we find that the inference of coexistence or
succession of relationship between concurrent or subsequent events,
although it seems a fairly instinctive and blind, is the application
of a principle which we recorded in the depths of our soul, and that
We even unwittingly continued use.

This principle is as follows: "Where there is order, where combination,
there is cause to order and combined, the chance is nothing.

"Once in a match We can look as casual, ie unrelated, but still often
repeated, and we without hesitation: "here is link is no mystery,
does not reach much chance."

This checks that examine in depth the human spirit, are at hand everywhere kindly Providence has been
pleased to enrich our understanding and our heart with priceless treasures [6].

CHAPTER VII.

LOGIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CHARITY.

§ I.

Wisdom of the law that forbids rash judgments.

The Christian law prohibiting rash judgments law is not just charity, but of prudence, and good
logic. Nothing is more risky than to judge an action, and above all the intention, by mere appearances,
the ordinary course of things has been so complicated events, the men are in so many situations,
they act by very different reasons, see the objects so differently, that often looks like a
great castle, which examined closely, and the presence of the circumstances is the most natural,
the most simple and fixed.

§ II.

Examination of the maxim "think wrong and miss."

The world believes provide a very important rule of conduct, saying "think wrong and error," and
imagine having amended in this way the evangelical morality. "It should not be too candid, we
are warned continuously, we must not rely on words, men are very bad, actions speak louder than words:
"as if the Gospel teaches us to be reckless and imbecile, as if Jesus Christ to encomedarnos
us to be innocent as doves, we do not been advised that we did not believe every spirit, that to
know the tree atendiésemos fruit, and finally as to the purpose of the wickedness of man, not as we read
in first pages of Scripture that man's heart is evil from adolescence.

The maximum pernicious proposed nothing less than ensuring the success with the malignancy
of view, is so contrary to Christian charity, as to sound right. Indeed, the experience teaches
us that man a liar but says much more truths than lies, and the more evil for many more good deeds
than bad or indifferent.

The man loves Naturally the truth and goodness, and not away from
them but when you drag passions and misguided.

Lies provide him a liar in any occasion in which untruthfully, create
further their interests or flatter their vanity foolish, but outside
of these cases, of course telling the truth, and speak like other men.

The thief steals the light gets out, the quarrelsome quarrel, when the opportunity presents
itself, stimulating the passion, as if they were continuous abandoned
their evil inclinations, would be monsters, his crime degenerate in
dementia, and then the decorum and good order of society would claim
imperiously they are above the treatment of their fellows.

Infiérese of these comments the wrong judge, not having the proper foundation, and take malignancy
guarantee of success, is as irrational as if having them in an urn many white balls, and very few
blacks, it said that the odds are out in Black's favor.

§ III.

Some rules for judging the behavior of men.

Fit into this matter carefully judicious rules, born of the wisdom
of the serpent and not destroy the innocence of the dove.

RULE 1 ª.

Should not be trusted in the power of ordinary men, tested very hard.

The reason is clear, very vehement temptations to resist demands firm and unblemished virtue. This
is found in few. Experience teaches us that in such extreme human weakness usually succumb, and
the Scripture warns us that whoever loves danger will perish in it.

You know that a reputable merchant is in the greatest distress, when everyone believes him
in position very unencumbered.

Your honor, the future of his family, are awaiting a operation fair bit, but very beneficial.
If you decide to it, everything is remedied, if declines, the fatal secret is disclosed, and
the total ruin is inevitable. What will? If the operation you can get hurt, precaveos time to
depart from a building while in a regular situation are not ruinous, is now beaten by a furious
hurricane.

You have news that two people amiable and beautiful figure, have stuck
very relations intimate and frequent, both are virtuous, and even
when there is no other reason, honor should be enough to contain them
in the proper limits.

If you have interest in it, take your party promptly, if not silent, not judge rashly, but pray
to God for both that sentences may not be useless.

You are in the government, the times are bad, the critical time, the dangers many. A your dependents
charged with an important place is besieged by a night and day enemy that has long bags. The
clerk is honored according to you it seems, has great because of you commitments, and is especially
enthusiastic about certain principles, and supports with much heat. Nevertheless, it will
be good to not lose sight of the business. You will make well in
believing that the honor and your convictions will crack with no dependent
the blows of a hammer than fifty thousand dollars, but you better
not probeis, if the consequences were mostly irreparable.

A friend
has made you great offers, and you can not doubt that they are sincere.
Friendship is old, many powerful titles, the sympathy of hearts is
tested, and height of this, there is identity of ideas and feelings.
Suddenly presented a business your friendship has to cost you face,
if you do not sacrifice is exposed to severe losses, to imminent danger.
For whatever might happen, resignaos to be a victim, fear that the
affectionate protests will remain unfulfilled, and instead of your
grief, you will be paid with a satisfaction as whining as sterile.

Are
watching an authority to bind, it wants to force an act of high significance,
can not access them without degradation, without neglect of duty more
sacred, without compromising interests of the utmost importance. The
judge is naturally straight, in his long career not known a felony,
and his strength is accompanied by some firmness of character. The
record is not bad. However, when you see the storm raging, that the
mutiny and up the stairs, when I hit the cabinet door to the bold
demagogue who has been in one hand the role to be signed, and another
a knife or a gun cocked, fear more about the fate of the business,
which for the life of the magistrate. It consists
rather (a) in selecting from the diffused responses which are evoked at a given time those
which are especially adapted to the utilization of the stimulus. That is to say, among the
reactions of the body in general occur upon stimulation of the eye by light, all except those
which are specifically adapted to reaching, grasping, and manipulating the object effectively
are gradually eliminated--or else no training occurs. As we have already noted, the primary
reactions, with a very few exceptions are too diffused and general to be practically of much
use in the case of the human infant. Hence the identity of training with selective response.
(Compare p. 25.) (b) Equally important is the specific coordination of different factors of
response which takes place. There is not merely a selection of the hand reactions which effect
grasping, but of the particular visual stimuli which call out just these reactions and no others,
and an establishment of connection between the two. But the coordinating does not stop here.
Characteristic temperature reactions may take place when the object is grasped. These will
also be brought in; later, the temperature reaction may be connected directly with the optical
stimulus, the hand reaction being suppressed--as a bright flame, independent of close contact,
may steer one away. Or the child in handling the object pounds with it, or crumples it, and
a sound issues. The ear response is then brought into the system of response. If a certain
sound (the conventional name) is made by others and accompanies the activity, response of both
ear and the vocal apparatus connected with auditory stimulation will also become an associated
factor in the complex response.

(3) The more specialized the adjustment of response and stimulus to each other (for, taking
the sequence of activities into account, the stimuli are adapted to reactions as well as reactions
to stimuli) the more rigid and the less generally available is the training secured. In equivalent
language, less intellectual or educative quality attaches to the training. The usual way of
stating this fact is that the more specialized the reaction, the less is the skill acquired
in practicing and perfecting it transferable to other modes of behavior. According to the orthodox
theory of formal discipline, a pupil in studying his spelling lesson acquires, besides ability
to spell those particular words, an increase of power of observation, attention, and recollection
which may be employed whenever these powers are needed. As matter of fact, the more he confines
himself to noticing and fixating the forms of words, irrespective of connection with other
things (such as the meaning of the words, the context in which they are habitually used, the
derivation and classification of the verbal form, etc.) the less likely is he to acquire an
ability which can be used for anything except the mere noting of verbal visual forms. He may
not even be increasing his ability to make accurate distinctions among geometrical forms, to
say nothing of ability to observe in general. He is merely selecting the stimuli supplied by
the forms of the letters and the motor reactions of oral or written reproduction. The scope
of coordination (to use our prior terminology) is extremely limited. The connections which
are employed in other observations and recollections (or reproductions) are deliberately eliminated
when the pupil is exercised merely upon forms of letters and words. Having been excluded, they
cannot be restored when needed. The ability secured to observe and to recall verbal forms is
not available for perceiving and recalling other things. This, however, is reasonable.

"Moreover,
I have nothing to say against your plans, but much to applaud.

If you marry, must stay there, where you are one of the first, and not come to large populations,
where have to be from the past.

"For men of a certain class and married women with certain conditions this life is terrible.

"To you alone, you're my closest friend and loyal, I can tell you,
and I can not help you tell you, in order to alleviate the weight
of my troubled heart, I am very unhappy.

"Beatriz married me for love. Despite the big age difference, I wanted to, not being inferior
to those seen here.

I think that Beatrice is loving me, but the fear that I miss the affection, the suspicion that
the high opinion of me stooping to be formed continuous, it constantly startled me.

"The contempt is contagious. By dint of looking at my wife the poor
performance I do, I neglected I am, the lowly position I hold, do
not end up neglected, too?

Do not end up hate me if I considered that the victim of my bad luck? Hence, although poor,
was a lady of the first. Here is the wife of a dark and miserable
clerk, whom nobody pays any attention.

"I have my theory, I comfort of my bad luck and bag except my pride.
But How to convert my wife and make a believer of my theory? Does
not it seem fake?

"My theory is as follows. Moreover, the difference between the training of ability to spell
which comes from taking visual forms in a narrow context and one which takes them in connection
with the activities required to grasp meaning, such as context, affiliations of descent, etc.,
may be compared to the difference between exercises in the gymnasium with pulley weights to
"develop" certain muscles, and a game or sport. The former is uniform and mechanical; it is
rigidly specialized. The latter is varied from moment to moment; no two acts are quite alike;
novel emergencies have to be met; the coordinations forming have to be kept flexible and elastic.
Consequently, the training is much more "general"; that is to say, it covers a wider territory
and includes more factors. Exactly the same thing holds of special and general education of
the mind.

A monotonously uniform exercise may by practice give great skill in one special act; but the
skill is limited to that act, be it bookkeeping or calculations in logarithms or experiments
in hydrocarbons. One may be an authority in a particular field and yet of more than usually
poor judgment in matters not closely allied, unless the training in the special field has been
of a kind to ramify into the subject matter of the other fields. (5) Consequently, such powers
as observation, recollection, judgment, esthetic taste, represent organized results of the
occupation of native active tendencies with certain subject matters. A man does not observe
closely and fully by pressing a button for the observing faculty to get to work (in other words
by "willing" to observe); but if he has something to do which can be accomplished successfully
only through intensive and extensive use of eye and hand, he naturally observes. Observation
is an outcome, a consequence, of the interaction of sense organ and subject matter. It will
vary, accordingly, with the subject matter employed.

It is consequently futile to set up even the ulterior development of faculties of observation,
memory, etc., unless we have first determined what sort of subject matter we wish the pupil
to become expert in observing and recalling and for what purpose. And it is only repeating
in another form what has already been said, to declare that the criterion here must be social.
We want the person to note and recall and judge those things which make him an effective competent
member of the group in which he is associated with others. Otherwise we might as well set the
pupil to observing carefully cracks on the wall and set him to memorizing meaningless lists
of words in an unknown tongue--which is about what we do in fact when we give way to the doctrine
of formal discipline. If the observing habits of a botanist or chemist or engineer are better
habits than those which are thus formed, it is because they deal with subject matter which
is more significant in life. In concluding this portion of the discussion, we note that the
distinction between special and general education has nothing to do with the transferability
of function or power. In the literal sense, any transfer is miraculous and impossible. But
some activities are broad; they involve a coordination of many factors. Their development demands
continuous alternation and readjustment. As conditions change, certain factors are subordinated,
and others which had been of minor importance come to the front. There is constant redistribution
of the focus of the action, as is seen in the illustration of a game as over against pulling
a fixed weight by a series of uniform motions. Thus there is practice in prompt making of new
combinations with the focus of activity shifted to meet change in subject matter. Wherever
an activity is broad in scope (that is, involves the coordinating of a large variety of sub-activities),
and is constantly and unexpectedly obliged to change direction in its progressive development,
general education is bound to result. For this is what "general" means; broad and flexible.
In practice, education meets these conditions, and hence is general, in the degree in which
it takes account of social relationships. A person may become expert in technical philosophy,
or philology, or mathematics or engineering or financiering, and be inept and ill-advised in
his action and judgment outside of his specialty. If however his concern with these technical
subject matters has been connected with human activities having social breadth, the range of
active responses called into play and flexibly integrated is much wider. Isolation of subject
matter from a social context is the chief obstruction in current practice to securing a general
training of mind. Literature, art, religion, when thus dissociated, are just as narrowing as
the technical things which the professional upholders of general education strenuously oppose.

Summary. The conception that the result of the educative process is capacity for further education
stands in contrast with some other ideas which have profoundly influenced practice. The first
contrasting conception considered is that of preparing or getting ready for some future duty
or privilege. Specific evil effects were pointed out which result from the fact that this aim
diverts attention of both teacher and taught from the only point to which it may be fruitfully
directed--namely, taking advantage of the needs and possibilities of the immediate present.
Consequently it defeats its own professed purpose. The notion that education is an unfolding
from within appears to have more likeness to the conception of growth which has been set forth.
But as worked out in the theories of Froebel and Hegel, it involves ignoring the interaction
of present organic tendencies with the present environment, just as much as the notion of preparation.
Some implicit whole is regarded as given ready-made and the significance of growth is merely
transitory; it is not an end in itself, but simply a means of making explicit what is already
implicit. Since that which is not explicit cannot be made definite use of, something has to
be found to represent it. According to Froebel, the mystic symbolic value of certain objects
and acts (largely mathematical) stand for the Absolute Whole which is in process of unfolding.
According to Hegel, existing institutions are its effective actual representatives. Emphasis
upon symbols and institutions tends to divert perception from the direct growth of experience
in richness of meaning. Another influential but defective theory is that which conceives that
mind has, at birth, certain mental faculties or powers, such as perceiving, remembering, willing,
judging, generalizing, attending, etc., and that education is the training of these faculties
through repeated exercise. This theory treats subject matter as comparatively external and
indifferent, its value residing simply in the fact that it may occasion exercise of the general
powers. Criticism was directed upon this separation of the alleged powers from one another
and from the material upon which they act. The outcome of the theory in practice was shown
to be an undue emphasis upon the training of narrow specialized modes of skill at the expense
of initiative, inventiveness, and readaptability--qualities which depend upon the broad and
consecutive interaction of specific activities with one another. 1 As matter of fact, the interconnection
is so great, there are so many paths of construction, that every stimulus brings about some
change in all of the organs of response. We are accustomed however to ignore most of these
modifications of the total organic activity, concentrating upon that one which is most specifically
adapted to the most urgent stimulus of the moment. 2 This statement should be compared with
what was said earlier about the sequential ordering of responses (p. 25). It is merely a more
explicit statement of the way in which that consecutive arrangement occurs.

Chapter Six: Education as Conservative and Progressive

1. Education as Formation. We now come to a type of theory which denies the existence of faculties
and emphasizes the unique role of subject matter in the development of mental and moral disposition.
According to it, education is neither a process of unfolding from within nor is it a training
of faculties resident in mind itself. It is rather the formation of mind by setting up certain
associations or connections of content by means of a subject matter presented from without.
Education proceeds by instruction taken in a strictly literal sense, a building into the mind
from without. That education is formative of mind is not questioned; it is the conception already
propounded. But formation here has a technical meaning dependent upon the idea of something
operating from without. Herbart is the best historical representative of this type of theory.
He denies absolutely the existence of innate faculties. The mind is simply endowed with the
power of producing various qualities in reaction to the various realities which act upon it.
These qualitatively different reactions are called presentations (Vorstellungen). Every presentation
once called into being persists; it may be driven below the "threshold" of consciousness by
new and stronger presentations, produced by the reaction of the soul to new material, but its
activity continues by its own inherent momentum, below the surface of consciousness. What are
termed faculties--attention, memory, thinking, perception, even the sentiments, are arrangements,
associations, and complications, formed by the interaction of these submerged presentations
with one another and with new presentations. Perception, for example, is the complication of
presentations which result from the rise of old presentations to greet and combine with new
ones; memory is the evoking of an old presentation above the threshold of consciousness by
getting entangled with another presentation, etc. Pleasure is the result of reinforcement among
the independent activities of presentations; pain of their pulling different ways, etc.

The concrete character of mind consists, then, wholly of the various arrangements formed by
the various presentations in their different qualities. 

Made and their delicate and pathetic confidences felt more relieved and serene, and available
resigned to fulfill the promise to bring that night and Ines Beatriz to Jardines del Buen
Retiro.

VII

Dramatic poets have to talk to their characters according to the nature, condition and passions
that they represent, but in such a narrow box, such as a drama, there is good how to put corrective
to the evil doctrines or statements that such immoral characters may issue. So dramatic poets
poor fluctuate between two rocks. Or converted to their heroes and heavy annoying preachers,
or, if allowed to speak as that naturally inspires passion, commit to respond to posterity,
and if their works do not go that far, to his contemporaries, all losses, delusions and dreams
that forcibly put into the mouths of the children of his imagination, heated and vehement. Thus,
for illustrious example of this, we quote Euripides, who, since ancient times, have accused of
corrupting. We know that Caesar, in order to justify all the insolence and wickedness that
he used to seize the dictatorship, often repeated some verses of
tragic mentioned.

I am generally very opposed to teach anything entertaining works of literature, and a thousand
times opposite if highest education is sinful. For this I write novels, not drama. In novel
explanations fit all: achieving poison antidote is administered.

The author may take the floor in the middle of the narrative and contradict his characters,
mitigating or followed by drowning in the bad effect that the views of any of them were produced.

Taking
advantage of this permit, and to quiet my conscience, scrupulous tired, I have now speak of Don
Braulio and his letter, which contains risky propositions certainly
and that, believed by the naive reader might pervert one of the ugliest
perversions known: the genius considered understood exceed unjustly
neglected.

Don Braulio worked as a black in office, passed by an employee honest and intelligent and not discovered
his genius or semigenio fumes but as quietly as his closest friend.

Proudly served his theory of comfort, or at least relief, in certain bitterness and suspicion,
tormented him cruelly, without knowing yet how much had Beatriz reason for this.

Don Braulio, finally, if deemed victim, did not blame society as a whole, nor any individual uniquely,
but assumed that all emanated, by fatally and inevitably of the same kind of things.

In sum, Mr. Braulio, melancholy temperament, little favored by fortune, and love and jealous
not know who, perhaps delirious forging theories, but would not let such theories transcended into
practice, and seemed, in view of more lynx, as an employee modest
I knew all that mattered was to know and care as do to earn the salary
conscience and not defraud the public purse or take the hospice offices
for people frock coat or privileged beggars.

As for the theory itself, there is little to say against, but here we will not philosophize, but
to narrate. I will say, however, that even assuming that each degree of culture that society
is coming only require a certain degree of understanding for the practical and daily, and other
grades are entirely superfluous, useless and even harmful, except
in exceptional cases, still will have to concede that the understanding
is not the only power the soul that goes to the man to be achieved,
the will, character, also fall by much.

Moreover, the understanding, in essence, is similar to God nobody sees, nobody know, nobody
but reverence and respect in their work. So Don Braulio, or any another might have more than
20 degrees of understanding, in their feelings, were necessary or convenient for the practical,
but when plus, when this surplus is not intellectual says nothing, but ruin the understanding that
is in use, there is no reason to complain that the world does not applaud or awe of the invisible
and hidden that can not fathom, nor penetrate, nor fathom. Who knows if the self-deceiving and
makes many people believe that have that understanding excessive and unnecessary, and may not
have but a superlative dose fatuity? And if love does not deceive himself, if in fact we have
such superior understanding and do not reach favorable circumstances is shown, it is best to keep quiet,
resigned and live as men live less clear, with no claim to genius, but by working humbly to make
a living, trying to equal footing with vulgar beings, and reserving the upper understanding
to talk to God or supernatural beings, or inner conversation with yourself, if you do not believe
anything the semigenio, or whether, despite their mental status, no angels nor deign to descend
from the sky deities of Olympus, or to take with him awhile of gab.

I'm going to put in case the life of Spinoza. This will explain better my idea. Let us imagine that this
wise not have written his philosophical works, for whatever reason had been carried to the grave
the secret of his admirable, if misplaced, fitness for deeper speculation metaphysical. It
is clear that this extraordinary man overwhelmed by its sublime and strange thoughts would not
have been in practical life or rich manufacturer, or merchant blissful and astute politician, and
nothing in this order, but had worked on polishing glass for lenses or make shoes, or any other
office or need a mechanic, and had not taken in pretense of being the genius to be a bum without
a job or benefit, and what is worse, not a bum fun and enjoyable,
but a vague whining and crying or maldicente, caustic and poisonous
like snakes.

Apologize, then, or at least we indulge our Don Braulio, whose pride
was hidden in the center of the soul, revealing only the most intimate
of his friends at the moment in which also showed the deepest wounds
of his heart.

Don Braulio had felt the need to trust their sentences to a friend,
in order not to drown; but otherwise this confidence, if something
was sinned by by concentrated and full of dissimulation.

His wife had not noticed this annoyance, that suspicion that suffocating the soul.

His wife seemed to love him, but his happy nature and his early youth the excited the joy and
drove to work to distract and amuse.

Beatriz was not wasted, but ordered and economic.

It was, yes, ambitious and friend luxury and finery, and although not envy nor tormented despite
seeing other women, less attractive and less distinguished by nature, wear jewels, silks and
lace, go by car and surrounded by the bright halo that offers luxury beauty, longing enjoy all this
and could not quite hide her husband.

From here the pain and the starting point of the suspicions of Don Braulio.

If Don Braulio had not loved his wife, if he believed this longing irrational whim, may have cared
little of everything, but Don Braulio loved her, and also claims to be so consider the things
of life, Dona Beatriz had plenty of reason to covet. His desire, but take her to the end sorry for him,
was, he founded, and founded involuntary, fatal, accurate.

Don Braulio blamed himself, and not blame Dona Beatriz. Why had Dona Beatriz loved? Why had
married him? It was so cute and so young nor so handsome, neither as rich nor as glorious, it
was only by the higher understanding, he had seduced. If this understanding is evaporated, if good
for nothing, if he doubted Beatriz and perhaps rightly, what basis he had to keep loving Don Braulio?
Before ground was to hate.

Although it is a bad comparison, anyone who is not insane, buy a rich cup China, an artistic
Sevres porcelain vase to put in the yard and throw it bran to eat the chickens. For this is more
than enough with a basin or a tinajón of Lucena. The glass art requires putting on a beautiful
lounge where: Pilgrim asked that flowers look at him.

Thus, a woman was asking Beatriz estate, gift, grace, worship, incense ride in the car, not walk,
to live in a palace, not in a third floor, not hidden among the vulgar,
but shine in the highest society.

In thinking about this Don Braulio always said to himself: "Why I
married her?"

And he he answered it already said in the letter to Paco Ramírez: "I loved her, and this explains
everything; she loved me, maybe she still loves me, his love, even if it was only a day, compensates
all the evils that I feel and older can come. "

With these feelings hidden within, Don Braulio, seemingly happy and even joyful, took his wife
and his sister to the Gardens at about nine o'clock at night.

Both were on their blanket, dark silk dresses, nothing garish and dissonant color or ornaments,
with an innate elegance that is exuded as a perfume of the same simplicity
and modesty of their dress.

Don Braulio was in his, though clean, fed neglected.

His coat and hat were fashion the way for eight or ten years. His black tie was a little shabby,
and neck shirt, straight and on a large, nearly reached his ears.

Beatriz half had fought with her husband to make him carry lower collars
and buy new hat and new coat.

I could not get. "What?" - Said Don Braulio -. Mr. hobbies more. So when I was young, and
I will not change. So I fell in love, so I wanted to, so you married me. "

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let
go as you don Braulio wanted.

That night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio,
but not left to tie it graceful loop of the tie, or stroking her hair,
put ointment and combing the best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens. Along the way, said Don Braulio:

-
I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends. Do not even have known.
In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert. Who is to tell? Who is to approach us?

-
Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you nor I know yet of memory.
Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the same is to go there than
the Prado.

- And still save money for the tickets - Beatriz said.

Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz. You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

- I know. I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only
to realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the
Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly more than I see them through another
prism.

We like to see people, but not repaired by us. The animation, joy, entertainment Luxury recreate
us. Although we do not forge the illusion or hope or even desire be seen and admired, want
to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance of others.

-
You're right, my dear, you're right.

I forget you're a girl. Your tastes are as a girl. Mal did in marrying
a man ... and an old poor and obscure.

Would you be called and held for you, leaving your husband in his
dark and poverty?

Would you that I came to be known as the husband of Dona Beatriz?

- I do not want, or that is possible. Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte
can not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my husband. Those who are
known only as husbands is because otherwise they do not deserve to
be.

No one would remember of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty,
I fall in love again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth
in any other.

If something is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated.

Do not talk to me sometimes the sweet light of my eyes?

For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say that my love
is a treasure?

Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio, who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such
as loving mouth linda could not contain his excitement, he burst into
tears, holding the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña Beatriz in her hand felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don Braulio.

Then Beatriz said:

- Now, now ... let's not childish.

Do not test me now because you are old, but children are much more than me. Let us rejoice, and let's
have fun serenémonos far as possible. Let us apply to this case the
proverb that says: "In the poor house burst better no excess.

"It is necessary to get good juice to pesetillas we're going to spend. Well not so! It would
be wasteful spending and not make fun of course.

Don Braulio calmed down following the advice of his wife tried to smile and appear happy, and
even excited Inesita his wife and to have fun.

Thus came to the Garden, took notes and entered.

VIII

That night in the Gardens had more people than usual.

Some sat in chairs in groups, dances and small gatherings, others were turning by the circular
walk, at whose center is the kiosk of the orchestra. This touching, with enough Masters, the
final round of Cenerentola.

Our Don Braulio and girls did not see a single familiar face.

Instead of sitting began to rotate through this competition.

Don Braulio soon noticed that although no one knew, was not the same one that accompanied walk women
as beautiful.

That was far from looking like a desert.

Often, especially when passing groups of men, reached the ears of Don Braulio vague murmurs
flattering, and occasional words and even whole sentences of admiration and commendable.

In Spain, I will not get to moralize about it or to decide whether it is right or wrong, but
men without believing that offend, often woo the way to the ladies, in particular when they
are alone.

On this occasion, or not look at Don Braulio, or give little importance to him, judge or distracted
and not hear, and Ines Beatriz collected good crop of compliments.

Both made the collection such as cold and impassive dignity, soon,
as if Word's out that these creatures did not ask for war, the compliments
ended, but not ended the open road as they passed them.

Also followed the buzz of excitement and sympathy.

They had already given three times our girls, when a group of young elegant spotted both at the
same time the Count of Alhedín.

Inesita kept his composure Olympic Beatriz became very red.

- Did you see the Condesito? - Told Inesita ear.

- Ay, ay, what are you wearing red!

Another new wave of blood red rose then the face of Dona Beatriz, who became more colorful.

- You are like a poppy - Ines said.

The group who had seen the Count coming toward them from the front. The count was no doubt
happen next. Who knows if they speak? Who knows if we will say a word bold, Don Braulio hear?
Perhaps this suspicion was as red as Dona Beatriz.

The unique thing was that the Count suddenly disappeared from the group, which, to meet our heroines,
was opened to let them pass, hearing both sides flattering and respectful murmurs, similar to
those of other people had already heard them.

Ines said the cloth to his sister:

- Where has slipped the Condesito?

- Who knows - Beatriz said.

- Well, sister, I can not tell with your eyes all that I recommended last night to tell him.

They had not gone a long way after this short dialogue, when they
saw a circle, where many people were sitting, stood up and said a
lady elegant, although somewhat buxom.

There was thickened, and retained their thinness and much of its beauty, despite the years.
Was not galas, the place unfit for public, but all I was wearing was exquisite taste, rich without
being gaudy.

Instead of the blanket had hat. His face was funny. His complexion rosy, if somewhat brown. On
his face two beautiful spots, like two clumps of bamboo in a meadow flowers. His eyes, large and fulmineo,
flashed more thanks to the fence that was dark painted her eyelids. His waist was majestic pair
lightweight and flexible. In short, all the poise and appearance
of this lady who was a lionne denote a real salience of the court.

What was the astonishment of Agnes and Beatrice when they realized they had been smitten salience
them! A gentleman of twenty to thirty years, carrying a coat and with a little box followed her like
a lacayuelo.
Just got the lady stood before Beatrice looked at her tenderly, and
exclaimed: "Dear mine! "threw her arms around his neck and kissed
her on both cheeks.

Beatrice stood for a moment looking for anyone
who touched her. Recognizing at last he said: "Rosita, 'and he paid
her kisses with others.

Perhaps the patient reader curious to know
and remember the story of Dr. Faustino has fallen into who was Rosita.
Rosita Gutierrez was the famous daughter of the clerk of Villabermeja,
that makes such an important role in that history. [*]

[*: See The
Illusions of Doctor Faustino novel.]

Rosita seemed immortal, as preserved.
Far from losing with age, could ensure I had won.

Little by little
had been molding and adjusting for such art to the use of the most
elegant Madrid, which hardly anyone dared not call her the "Queen
of kitsch," which was given that initially gave him.

Her husband
had business wise, and had also benefited more. Both spouses had become
very aristocratic, religious and conservative. Idolized Pius IX, had
a title Roman. Condes de San Teódulo were. Had been in devout pilgrimage
to Lourdes and Rome and then had brought several relics of that holy,
which had been one of the six thousand martyrs of the Theban Legion,
and by that, it was proven with evidence that was natural of the greatest
people in the district where Rosita's husband used to go deputy. With
the relics brought by the pilgrims said the effigy of San Teódulo,
and everything carried the village, where there was an immense joy
and celebrations boisterous. Nothing more natural, after this, that
Rosita and her husband were to become Condes de San Teódulo. 

However,
not content with being Condes them by Rome, were eager to be Marquis
in Castile and it had long sought with eagerness. Meanwhile, complying
with the saying of 'Child not have, and we name it "had pondered a
lot and played more the counts on name that was to have the Marquis.
They agreed the two in which the name was to be the in some rural
property they possessed, but, unfortunately, the husband's farm Rosita
was impossible. They called: The Biznaga, The Hinojal and The Macuca.
It was not safe with titles such ugly head. They resolved, therefore,
that on a farm titled Rosie called Camarena, and I dreamed of being
Marquis de Camarena, settling soon as San Teódulo County, Theban and
Andalusian martyr at a time, which, here is understood as understood,
involves no contradiction.

Entitled Rosita, and more rich and prosperous
than ever, develop in his soul felt love more pure to the letters
and the arts. He called his rooms to artists and poets, and became
a Lorenza as a Patron of the Magnificent or female.

As for the former
cursería, we said that no one dared hardly accuse her of this defect;
defect, moreover, so vague and undefinable, which is almost always
the criterion of People find him or not finding the others. What does
happen, usually, is that allegations are mutual. No subject is given
only when he described someone corny, do more than pay, it is uncertain
whether he qualified for qualifying mouth full of the same.

Is this
because it is a quality cursería indeterminate and confusing? I think
not, because I noticed that it does the same with certain other qualities
sick. Whenever I've heard a woman talk about the amorous intrigues
of the intricacies and tricks of the others I've seen that she told
the other a thousand times. And on the lips of anyone with whom I
have referred thousand horrors underhand behavior in public employment,
I have also heard diatribes stronger accusing the others of the same
peccadillo. Men have long had some intimation of the
extent to which education may be consciously used to eliminate obvious social evils through
starting the young on paths which shall not produce these ills, and some idea of the extent
in which education may be made an instrument of realizing the better hopes of men. But we are
doubtless far from realizing the potential efficacy of education as a constructive agency of
improving society, from realizing that it represents not only a development of children and
youth but also of the future society of which they will be the constituents.

Summary. Education may be conceived either retrospectively or prospectively. That is to say,
it may be treated as process of accommodating the future to the past, or as an utilization
of the past for a resource in a developing future. The former finds its standards and patterns
in what has gone before. The mind may be regarded as a group of contents resulting from having
certain things presented. In this case, the earlier presentations constitute the material to
which the later are to be assimilated. Emphasis upon the value of the early experiences of
immature beings is most important, especially because of the tendency to regard them as of
little account. But these experiences do not consist of externally presented material, but
of interaction of native activities with the environment which progressively modifies both
the activities and the environment. The defect of the Herbartian theory of formation through
presentations consists in slighting this constant interaction and change. The same principle
of criticism applies to theories which find the primary subject matter of study in the cultural
products--especially the literary products--of man's history. Isolated from their connection
with the present environment in which individuals have to act, they become a kind of rival
and distracting environment. Their value lies in their use to increase the meaning of the things
with which we have actively to do at the present time. The idea of education advanced in these
chapters is formally summed up in the idea of continuous reconstruction of experience, an idea
which is marked off from education as preparation for a remote future, as unfolding, as external
formation, and as recapitulation of the past.

Chapter Seven: The Democratic Conception in Education

For the most part, save incidentally, we have hitherto been concerned with education as it
may exist in any social group. We have now to make explicit the differences in the spirit,
material, and method of education as it operates in different types of community life. To say
that education is a social function, securing direction and development in the immature through
their participation in the life of the group to which they belong, is to say in effect that
education will vary with the quality of life which prevails in a group. Particularly is it
true that a society which not only changes but-which has the ideal of such change as will improve
it, will have different standards and methods of education from one which aims simply at the
perpetuation of its own customs. To make the general ideas set forth applicable to our own
educational practice, it is, therefore, necessary to come to closer quarters with the nature
of present social life.

1. The Implications of Human Association. Society is one word, but many things. Men associate
together in all kinds of ways and for all kinds of purposes. One man is concerned in a multitude
of diverse groups, in which his associates may be quite different. It often seems as if they
had nothing in common except that they are modes of associated life. Within every larger social
organization there are numerous minor groups: not only political subdivisions, but industrial,
scientific, religious, associations. There are political parties with differing aims, social
sets, cliques, gangs, corporations, partnerships, groups bound closely together by ties of
blood, and so on in endless variety. In many modern states and in some ancient, there is great
diversity of populations, of varying languages, religions, moral codes, and traditions. From
this standpoint, many a minor political unit, one of our large cities, for example, is a congeries
of loosely associated societies, rather than an inclusive and permeating community of action
and thought. (See ante, p. 20.)

The terms society, community, are thus ambiguous. They have both a eulogistic or normative
sense, and a descriptive sense; a meaning de jure and a meaning de facto. In social philosophy,
the former connotation is almost always uppermost. Society is conceived as one by its very
nature. The qualities which accompany this unity, praiseworthy community of purpose and welfare,
loyalty to public ends, mutuality of sympathy, are emphasized. But when we look at the facts
which the term denotes instead of confining our attention to its intrinsic connotation, we
find not unity, but a plurality of societies, good and bad. Men banded together in a criminal
conspiracy, business aggregations that prey upon the public while serving it, political machines
held together by the interest of plunder, are included. When? Soon. Andrew was responsible
for paving the road. The selfless server I got back I proposed to the capital for further study.

Sacrifice
- I repeat - until the last half! - That was not possible.

We agreed to talk with some of the richest people in Villaverde, especially Mr Castro Perez to provide
me with employment. Either would be good, you win a lot, earn little. The case was work.

Would I be able to somehow alleviate the plight of my family?

"I would possible correspond to the sacrifices of those caring for elderly who have blessed
me given their lives? I confess that at that time I lacked the courage.

Any education given by a group tends to socialize its members, but the quality and value of
the socialization depends upon the habits and aims of the group. Hence, once more, the need
of a measure for the worth of any given mode of social life. In seeking this measure, we have
to avoid two extremes. We cannot set up, out of our heads, something we regard as an ideal
society. We must base our conception upon societies which actually exist, in order to have
any assurance that our ideal is a practicable one. But, as we have just seen, the ideal cannot
simply repeat the traits which are actually found. The problem is to extract the desirable
traits of forms of community life which actually exist, and employ them to criticize undesirable
features and suggest improvement. Now in any social group whatever, even in a gang of thieves,
we find some interest held in common, and we find a certain amount of interaction and cooperative
intercourse with other groups. From these two traits we derive our standard. How numerous and
varied are the interests which are consciously shared? How full and free is the interplay with
other forms of association? If we apply these considerations to, say, a criminal band, we find
that the ties which consciously hold the members together are few in number, reducible almost
to a common interest in plunder; and that they are of such a nature as to isolate the group
from other groups with respect to give and take of the values of life. Hence, the education
such a society gives is partial and distorted. The people said: The most wanted more to his father,
and the child wants more to his sister: the thirty thousand pieces should be given to the highest.
Called Zadig on them both, and told him the most: your father is not dead, he has healed from
his last illness, and returns to Babylon. Thank God, "replied the boy, but his tomb fed had cost
me dearly. The same is then said to Zadig the child. Thank God, he replied, I shall return
to my father all quanto I have, but I want my sister dexase what I have given. Restituiréis
not nothing, 'said Zadig, and it will give thirty thousand coins, which you You are the one
You wanted your father more.

Had been a rich maiden troth to two wizards, and after receiving Both instructions a few months,
was found on tape. Both wanted to marry her. The maid said that he would be her husband had
put the state to give citizens the empire. One said: I have been who have done good work, the
other: No, I who I had so much joy. Okay, said the damsel, I recognize a father of the child
which can give better education. Gave birth to a boy, and wanted to educate one another magician.
Carried Zadig the court before, he called them both, and said the first: What have you to teach
your student? Enseñaréle replied the doctor, the eight parts of speech, dialect, astrology, demonology,
which thing is the substance and accident, the abstract and the concrete, the monads and pre-established
harmony. For me, he said the second, I will try to make fair and dignified have friends. Zadig
failed: Ora Whether or not her father, you will marry his mother.

Every day came to the court complaints against Itimadulet Media, called Irax, great potentate,
was not evil nature, but the vanity and the delight he had been ravaged. Rare sometimes allowed
him to speak, and never dared to contradict him. There are so vain peacocks, doves and more voluptuous,
freshwater or less lazy, just breathe pride and vain delights.

Zadig Probóse to correct him, and sent from the king a music teacher
with twelve singers and twenty-four violins, a steward with six cooks
and four gentlemen, that dexaban not ever. Stimulation and response
are exceedingly one-sided. In order to have a large number of values in common, all the members
of the group must have an equable opportunity to receive and to take from others. There must
be a large variety of shared undertakings and experiences. Otherwise, the influences which
educate some into masters, educate others into slaves. And the experience of each party loses
in meaning, when the free interchange of varying modes of life-experience is arrested. A separation
into a privileged and a subject-class prevents social endosmosis. The evils thereby affecting
the superior class are less material and less perceptible, but equally real. Their culture
tends to be sterile, to be turned back to feed on itself; their art becomes a showy display
and artificial; their wealth luxurious; their knowledge overspecialized; their manners fastidious
rather than humane.

Lack of the free and equitable intercourse which springs from a variety of shared interests
makes intellectual stimulation unbalanced. Diversity of stimulation means novelty, and novelty
means challenge to thought. The more activity is restricted to a few definite lines--as it
is when there are rigid class lines preventing adequate interplay of experiences--the more
action tends to become routine on the part of the class at a disadvantage, and capricious,
aimless, and explosive on the part of the class having the materially fortunate position. Plato
defined a slave as one who accepts from another the purposes which control his conduct. This
condition obtains even where there is no slavery in the legal sense. It is found wherever men
are engaged in activity which is socially serviceable, but whose service they do not understand
and have no personal interest in. Much is said about scientific management of work. It is a
narrow view which restricts the science which secures efficiency of operation to movements
of the muscles. The chief opportunity for science is the discovery of the relations of a man
to his work--including his relations to others who take part--which will enlist his intelligent
interest in what he is doing. Efficiency in production often demands division of labor. For the first time was to get away from my country for some years, ... perhaps forever! Honda
with its sublime debris, broken tombs of ancient opulence - their jumpers and noisy river, foaming
cataracts, - its tall palm trees woven into floating pavilions, - its lush evergreen trees that bathe in the
waves and abundant curly hair, - her steep hills and amphitheaters, of eternal solitude, and whose
high plains of emerald grasses swaying in the summer the sturdy hurricanes - Honda, Queen dethroned
shadow his distant splendor appeared to my eyes with his blue blanket and covered ruins, stray
sadder and more beautiful than ever. Jerusalem dark poem of my youth, left between its hills and forests
as a shrine revered memories. The mother received a bye the son traveler, my mind understood it
better than ever!

Leaving the homeland this fact alone poses a whole drama to the heart! What time that solemn,
recollection for the traveler's soul, hope and fear deep supreme!

Leaving the sandy beach where his deep breaks the majestic Magdalena, parting thought of an
immense treasure. There were: the grave of my father, family traditions, ash Home, sweet memories,
and the mad whims of young love, friends fortune, freedom, air, sky, the thousand vague rumors
and confusion, and all that lovely set of impressions and dreams, regrets and memories, misfortunes
and such, which is called the Fatherland ... All that was left behind, and buried in a cemetery
whose cover was a Honda! What future? ... The vague and unknown - infinite and marvelous -
that touches the heart in his dreams of hope, and that doubt covered with its shadow when the traveler
says: Who knows?

       * * * * *

Honda is an old city, Spanish entirely by their construction, but looks so Whimsical and colorful
that reaches the proportions of romance. The Magdalena River, the great artery of commerce
in New Granada, after having brought in some leagues the direction of SE to west, suddenly lost
its gentleness, is narrowed between high rocks of two parallel ridges, and twisting is released
directly north by between rapids stony, crowned with foam, roaring like the great bulk of a
waterfall, and as tired for this decrease storm, goes to it rested, a league below, gently licking
wide Bodega beaches. A plain four miles, interrupted by some woods and hills; picturesque and
luxurious vegetation, coming from the ruined town of Mariquita (the tomb of conqueror Quesada),
at the foot of the central cordillera of the Andes, and ends on the edge Magdalena left, overlooking
the rough rapids which the natives call the waterfall. The exquisite Guali river, blue, diver, sparkling
like a torrent, and orrilado by rich woods, limits the plains to the north, and running O.
to E. come clean and give him his tribute to Magdalena divided into two parts Honda City, while 400
meters above a beautiful stream flows as well, cutting the main harbor beach.


2. The Democratic Ideal. The two elements in our criterion both point to democracy. The first
signifies not only more numerous and more varied points of shared common interest, but greater
reliance upon the recognition of mutual interests as a factor in social control. The second
means not only freer interaction between social groups (once isolated so far as intention could
keep up a separation) but change in social habit--its continuous readjustment through meeting
the new situations produced by varied intercourse. And these two traits are precisely what
characterize the democratically constituted society.

Upon the educational side, we note first that the realization of a form of social life in which
interests are mutually interpenetrating, and where progress, or readjustment, is an important
consideration, makes a democratic community more interested than other communities have cause
to be in deliberate and systematic education. The devotion of democracy to education is a familiar
fact. The superficial explanation is that a government resting upon popular suffrage cannot
be successful unless those who elect and who obey their governors are educated. Since a democratic
society repudiates the principle of external authority, it must find a substitute in voluntary
disposition and interest; these can be created only by education. But there is a deeper explanation.
A democracy is more than a form of government; it is primarily a mode of associated living,
of conjoint communicated experience. The extension in space of the number of individuals who
participate in an interest so that each has to refer his own action to that of others, and
to consider the action of others to give point and direction to his own, is equivalent to the
breaking down of those barriers of class, race, and national territory which kept men from
perceiving the full import of their activity. These more numerous and more varied points of
contact denote a greater diversity of stimuli to which an individual has to respond; they consequently
put a premium on variation in his action. They secure a liberation of powers which remain suppressed
as long as the incitations to action are partial, as they must be in a group which in its exclusiveness
shuts out many interests. And
I said to myself: Happy Linilla! Loves and is loved!

...

In principle, the fires that time.

Neither Gabriel nor I returned his face to the street.

They burned tires and wheels, thundered the Marquesas, colorful fireworks
flew into the air, and We did not look anything.

Gabriel continued:

- Tell me .... Is not it true that you're in love with Linilla?

I could not utter a word.

- Is not it true that you love each other?

Answer me, Rudolph!

- Listen to me before, Gabriela, such happy news with you so happy.

-
Oh, - burst the beautiful lady, illuminated by multicolored lights
reflections Bengal .-- So glad !.... I want you to share my happiness!

Gabriela sensed what was going to say. As an invisible being whispered
into my ears.

Narrowed eyes, dazzled by the general fire tree fire, and through the red spot perceived hurt
my eyes, I thought I saw Angelina's face pale and tearful.

- Tell me, I said very quietly Gabriela ...-- ....

- I wrote! I wrote! A very tender letter, a very heartfelt letter!

- Who?

- Ernesto.

- Yes?

- Does it surprise you?

- No ... but not expected.

The resolution of you ... the wishes of Don Carlos ....

- My father will transfer .... As for me .... I am a woman, that is,
I am weak.

Ernesto loves me, I'm sure of it!

... Now I write, begging my forgiveness.

Begs, pleads, and I can not despise because I love him .... Much
a woman can .... I will kill you in the heart of fatal passion Ernesto
... I will be your guardian angel ... and when I see you regenerated,
if it no longer forever that horrible vice ... Give you my hand!

They say I'm beautiful, they say I'm intelligent, I'm kind .... Well, all these qualities
will serve to redeem me .... Do you approve my thoughts?

- And if you do not get what has been proposed?

- So .... Then I'll
love him like now!

If it's my first love, my only love!

The poor lady looked down, and was thoughtful and silent. Entered through a window flood of light,
and stay, almost dark, lit with melancholy moonlight. The fireworks were over. Boot hundreds of
rockets, fired at once, leaving the atrium.

Stood, laying on the giant space curves, thundered overhead, and explosion flowed streams of
gold dust, hundreds of lights that resembled descending a shower
of stones.

The brass band was playing the National Anthem released.

Gabriela Domino his dejection, and said quietly, with stealth expressive accent:

- Today I said to Ernest. Dad ignores it, just you know .... Tell me, Rodolfo: Want Angelina you
well, as I want to Ernesto?

- Yes.

- "And she loves you?

- Yes, very much! I do not deserve it!

- Well, my friend, are you worthy of it!

The party was over, the crowd dispersed, and the circles of Don Carlos
out looking for ladies to say goodbye.

Half an hour later I was in my house. I locked myself in my room and wrote very long letter.
Ay! A letter that never reached Angelina.

LXI

At seven, tired of waiting for my aunt Pepilla, I sat at the table. Jane was quick to serve.
In those moments came the old woman.

- Oh, Rorra!

What will you say to me! But, son of my soul, what mass so long!

Have you had breakfast?

No? Well here's companion .... Come on, Jane, suddenly prontito,
see you have Rorra go!

...

Pepilla aunt put at one end of the table the book and the rosary,
and taking off her shawl threw himself on the back of a chair.

-
Are you going today?

- Yes, aunt, then we end.

There on my desk is a letter to Linilla. You send it to who comes from San Sebastian. Today
or tomorrow will come the boy ....

- If you saw, Rorra, - said my aunt hastily - I already coming into
care.

Ago more than two weeks that we have no news of Angelina.

Before ... Go!

... Holy Week ... Guests then ... but now ... Castro Pérez girls
came from anti .... Why not write to them?

- Thus would no longer
boring!

- Maybe .... Would you like butter?

Joan, you bring the butter!

I will write this afternoon, so if anyone comes not have to wait
.... Then I have to go to the races.

- Listen, Aunt: If Angelina
writes, as you know, then lueguito, I sent you, the letter.

Mauricio tell you to go through here every day.

- Well!

I will send him clothes. Mauritius has the face of this good boy. How friendly! How well spoken!

The
aunt was released chatting happily. I was very happy, very happy.

What fun, Rorra, how nice! Nothing to deal with the kids .... From
the first day I relax .... I have children already here!

For that Angelina! ... Same as care for a sick! ... I've already said, Rorra, if Angelina does
not marry a sister has to stop of Charity. Its aim, son, is calling!

The other day I told the P. Solis and I said, 'You're right!

"

- Go with you and the P. Solis!

Angelina nun? God forbid! Linilla be wife and mother ....

The old woman looked at me intently, and smiling, he said:

- Would you marry Linilla?

- From all my heart!

- That marriage would be very much to my taste.

They say, but I do not think so, you're in love Gabriela ....

- No, aunt!

You know people say how it happens ....

- For better, child, the better!

I'm very fond of Linilla!

... Gabriela is very elegant, very nice, very rich, how you want!
but where is Angelina ....

It was necessary to leave.

- Well, Aunt
...-- said getting up - it's time, horse riding ....

- Do not say
goodbye to your godmother?

- Yes, why not!

We went to the bedroom.

Aunt Carmen was near the bed, sit-in his chair.

I was laughing and loving.

- Have you leave?

- Yes, Aunt ... I arrive early.

I never saw her more pale and weak, barely heard what he said was almost complete paralysis.
The poor old woman had an arm motionless and fingers contracted.

Extremity had lower strength, the feet were swollen.

- Rorra: - exclaimed Aunt Pepilla - tell your sponsor that you recommended
the doctor.

- Yes, aunt, exercise, plenty of exercise, even around
the room every day, a lap one, godmother!

That being so, sitting, sitting all day, can not be good ...

- But ... if ... I can not! - muttered.

- An effort ....

Aunt Pepa waved me that I saw the feet of the patient.

The was so swollen barely fit into the slippers.

- Right, godmother, you will do everything you send the doctor? -
I said yes, moving head.

- Are not you take drugs?

He smiled and gave a nod .-- Aunt Pepilla eyes were wet. I approached, and kneeling beside
the chair I wanted to hug the old lady.

- Farewell, Auntie! I will come next week.

- Well ... good! - said with great difficulty, and a voice so weak that hardly heard Want .--
God will find me alive! I'm very bad ... but ... Sarmiento neither this nor want to believe.

-
No aunt! - Burst out laughing .-- Are you nervous, why are you so weak ....

- Go ... go, - he said, smiling painfully - give me a hug ....

When I got up and leaned over to kiss her forehead, I saw that the
pale cheeks of the patient two tears rolled two tears of those who
in the face of a corpse appear drops of dew in the bosom of a white
rose.

I left the room with a broken heart.

Aunt Pepa I was silent and downcast ....

Finally he spoke:

- What do you say that?

- Nothing, aunt, that if I had my ... I would not leave me! ...

- When you go back?

- On Sunday .... Ask license.

- Yes, yes, come .... Behold, I stand alone, all alone! ...

- Tell Andrew you come every night ....

- Be sure to come on Sunday!

- I'll be here.

I did not go without talking to Sarmiento. I found him at home.

- Oh, boy .... Have courage! ... Trust in me .... If something seems I have serious, take to
let you know ... I do not want to live deceived .... All things come to an end .... The overall
condition of your aunt is bad, very bad, but again, for now there
is no fear .... Later, any day .... Finally .... God will tell!

Go with God.

Passing talked to Andrew.

- Do not worry, young master. I'll come every night .... Go quiet .... Last night I was with your
aunt and was very happy.

And took the road to the ranch. The heart was telling me that Aunt Carmen did not live long ....
Seven years of disease! It's about time! ...

LXII

I dared not ask permission to go to Villaverde, although the news was received that afternoon
not good. Aunt Carmen had very slight fever. A cold, by way of doctor, and nothing else. However,
I was not alone.

We work on the desktop until eight at night, and sit at the table, I said Don Carlos:

- Tomorrow, after church, you write those letters, and in the afternoon we liquidation that. Gabriela
want some sheet music. I say they are on the piano, you pick them up and send them. There
on the table is the list ....

We dined happily. Mr. Fernandez was in a good mood, and chatted over
lunch to taste of the festival of Villaverde.

Then she talked about farm work and the works of railroad.

- Is to feel, - he said - that the railroad does not pass through Villaverde. Will be the city
Pluviosilla to get more out.

In its waters and its rivers have a source of wealth .... How many factories have now? A ....
For twenty years now and you'll see! ... It would be appropriate acquire land in Pluviosilla,
particularly near rivers .... Within a few years have to be worth twice what it now costs. Pluviosilla
will not be doubted, the first manufacturing city of the State and the Republic ....

The servants had already withdrawn. Mauricio appeared suddenly in the dining room saying someone
looking for me.

- Me? - Asked startled.

- Yes, bring a letter ....

- Who comes?

- I do not know.

I got up hastily in search of the unknown. I had two letters: one of Linilla and another of Aunt
Pepa. I ran to read.

- What? - Asked Don Carlos .-- Some care?

I opened the statement.

Contained only a few lines.

"Carmen is very serious.

And the doctor sent him to have and receive five Viaticum. Come then, then, ask permission,
that Don Carlos is not to deny it to you. Consider me. "

I put the little note in the hands of Don Carlos.

He read at a glance, and exclaimed:

- Well, saddle Mauritius and
Go away!

And addressing the young man added:

- You go with the Lord.

Half an hour later we were going, and good step on the way to Villaverde.

The

night was dark. Back in the heart of the Sierra flashed distant storm. Could be heard distant thunder,
distant, and from time to time, in the light of lightning, we discovered
the tops of distant mountains.

The sky was enveloped in a network of lightning.

Amenazábanos rain, big drops fell, and echoed in the nearby forest groves and the step of rushing
wind. Hissing snakes in the bushes of the road thousand insects buzzing
in the grass, and the sound of rain was approaching fast and scary.
The trees seemed spectra, the lights of the candles burning huts in
front of a corpse.

We went at a trot. I was silent and anxious, Mauricio
I was diligent and respectful. The rain did not invade the valley
in the mountains stopped, unloaded there, and soon was cleared heaven.
There, due to Villaverde, twinkling stars of the Big Dipper. The storm
was struggling, but weak and faint, in the far reaches of the Sierra.

"Death!
- I thought, while Maurice was whistling through his teeth melancholic
song .-- The death! I'll see her get ... has he come to this hour
.... I never thought mine, I loved, would die !»....

My heart ached,
and my thoughts went from one thing to another without stopping anywhere.
Complacióme memories of better years, adventurous days, I longed for
the tranquility of the school I spent two decades on, and it seemed
that the happy memories of childhood away from me sorrows and pains.
Angelina! Where was Angelina? I weep for the sick! Gabriela! How sweetly
consoled his friend! But then I fell into a depression just so great
could not quite guide the horse. "Why do people die? My God! Why?
- Repeated .-- I do want to take the poor old woman? "Fool of me that
i didn't think that death was so close! No, yes, I thought, I thought
many times, but always saw far Far! ... And now came suddenly, insidious,
unexpected ... cruel ... terrible! ... The dying - I said to myself
- it's like a shipwrecked swept away by the waves to win the fight
shore, all that love him want to save, and can not, and it is impossible,
every effort is useless ... unhappy and calling for help ... And does
not seem to hear! ... Horrible! Horrible!

Distraught, trembling,
I led me to God, asking for help, asking for a miracle ... The heart,
dog-tired, was insensitive, hampered intelligence did not succeed
to focus on anything ... until the heart regained strength. Then I
happened to all that was a horrible nightmare, which would raise comforted
and happy. But ah! reality was there before, cruel, relentless. And
pray devoutly, full of faith, faith of a saint, came to my lips and
the prayers I learned as a child, and recited carefully, paying the
soul and life into every phrase, every word, every syllable. Wanted
to get to Villaverde, and I was tempted to go back to the ranch, and
run, flee to the mountains, forests, to distant cities, to know nothing,
nothing that happened in my house. Wanted to see me surrounded of
my friends, all my friends, all to retreat into her affection as a
port of salvation .... I was afraid of being alone, and each time
he looked when Maurice was close to me ....

I do not know what time
it was when we went in Villaverde. After the checkpoint we continue
down the street Principal. It was deserted! Could not be otherwise,
but I hoped that was filled of people, friends who would come to meet
me and told me: "Fear not: everything has been a !...» dream

And
there was nobody, nobody! A dog howling in an alley. The dozing in
serene the corners, sitting near his flashlight, got up on hearing
the passage of horses, waved, and went along the sidewalks lazy and
distracted .... The headlights dim shone here and there with red light
in the darkness of the streets, like candles in funeral pomp.

A few
minutes and I would be at the bedside of the sick. Pneumonias and
fevers Villaverde pernicious are terrible, just resist them elderly,
poor and my godmother, ailing, weak, exhausted by long sufferings,
would have to succumb. But, why, if we wanted So ... if it was so
good, so loving ... If he was a saint!

- Over here, sir, will arrive
here soon ...-- said Mauricio, who was next to me .-- I I know very
well the streets, because before I came every day to sell milk.

I
followed him without hearing what the boy said. I rang in the deserted
street, the passage of horses!

- Here! - Mauricio said, stopping
the horse.

- It is here ....

- Yes, sir.

- The entrance was open.
For a window came a flood of light.

I understood everything. I felt
that I tore the heart, my blood was up to the brain. To dismount the
horse saw, unwittingly, the body of my godmother. Was veiled with
a cloth white.

Andrew greeted me in his arms.

- Well you said what
my heart!

Hesitant, not knowing what I did, I went to the room, leaning
on the server that is not noble could contain the sobs.

Aunt Pepa
came to meet me, leaned on my shoulder the grizzled head, and without
saying a word hugged me tightly.

LXIII

When we returned from the
cemetery I went to my room. Andrew followed me there. Sitting around
intended to distract me I know not what stories of my childhood. I
heard no answer. Suddenly my aunt came.

- Rorra: I got a letter from
Angelina?

- No.

- Why not? I sent you yesterday with the boy who
was, to call ....

- You're right.

I got up and went looking for
the letter. I had it in the pocket of her blouse.

"Rodolfo:

"Forgive
me if this card fills you with bitterness. I know that you love me
and understand my words will hurt the heart, but someday, when you're
happy, because today you're not, you'll thank me what now has to cause
you much grief.

"Forget, forget, I beg, I beg for the holy memory
of your parents who are in the sky, your aunts, who both want and
love you so much!

"In writing these lines I'm in tears, I feel that
my soul is going, because I have loved you and I love you even with
all the strength of my heart, but I understand that I must be frank,
that would be wrong, very wrong, if yours encourage a feeling that
it closes the doors to a future that I should not spoil. The extent of the transformation of educational philosophy which occurred in
Germany in the generation occupied by the struggle against Napoleon for national independence,
may be gathered from Kant, who well expresses the earlier individual-cosmopolitan ideal. In
his treatise on Pedagogics, consisting of lectures given in the later years of the eighteenth
century, he defines education as the process by which man becomes man. Mankind begins its history
submerged in nature--not as Man who is a creature of reason, while nature furnishes only instinct
and appetite. Nature offers simply the germs which education is to develop and perfect. The
peculiarity of truly human life is that man has to create himself by his own voluntary efforts;
he has to make himself a truly moral, rational, and free being. This creative effort is carried
on by the educational activities of slow generations. Its acceleration depends upon men consciously
striving to educate their successors not for the existing state of affairs but so as to make
possible a future better humanity. But there is the great difficulty. Each generation is inclined
to educate its young so as to get along in the present world instead of with a view to the
proper end of education: the promotion of the best possible realization of humanity as humanity.
Parents educate their children so that they may get on; princes educate their subjects as instruments
of their own purposes.

Who, then, shall conduct education so that humanity may improve? We must depend upon the efforts
of enlightened men in their private capacity. "All culture begins with private men and spreads
outward from them. Simply through the efforts of persons of enlarged inclinations, who are
capable of grasping the ideal of a future better condition, is the gradual approximation of
human nature to its end possible. Rulers are simply interested in such training as will make
their subjects better tools for their own intentions." Even the subsidy by rulers of privately
conducted schools must be carefully safeguarded. For the rulers' interest in the welfare of
their own nation instead of in what is best for humanity, will make them, if they give money
for the schools, wish to draw their plans. We have in this view an express statement of the
points characteristic of the eighteenth century individualistic cosmopolitanism. The full development
of private personality is identified with the aims of humanity as a whole and with the idea
of progress. In addition we have an explicit fear of the hampering influence of a state-conducted
and state-regulated education upon the attainment of these ideas. But in less than two decades
after this time, Kant's philosophic successors, Fichte and Hegel, elaborated the idea that
the chief function of the state is educational; that in particular the regeneration of Germany
is to be accomplished by an education carried on in the interests of the state, and that the
private individual is of necessity an egoistic, irrational being, enslaved to his appetites
and to circumstances unless he submits voluntarily to the educative discipline of state institutions
and laws. In this spirit, Germany was the first country to undertake a public, universal, and
compulsory system of education extending from the primary school through the university, and
to submit to jealous state regulation and supervision all private educational enterprises.
Two results should stand out from this brief historical survey. The first is that such terms
as the individual and the social conceptions of education are quite meaningless taken at large,
or apart from their context. Plato had the ideal of an education which should equate individual
realization and social coherency and stability. His situation forced his ideal into the notion
of a society organized in stratified classes, losing the individual in the class. The eighteenth
century educational philosophy was highly individualistic in form, but this form was inspired
by a noble and generous social ideal: that of a society organized to include humanity, and
providing for the indefinite perfectibility of mankind. The idealistic philosophy of Germany
in the early nineteenth century endeavored again to equate the ideals of a free and complete
development of cultured personality with social discipline and political subordination. It
made the national state an intermediary between the realization of private personality on one
side and of humanity on the other. Consequently, it is equally possible to state its animating
principle with equal truth either in the classic terms of "harmonious development of all the
powers of personality" or in the more recent terminology of "social efficiency." All this reinforces
the statement which opens this chapter: The conception of education as a social process and
function has no definite meaning until we define the kind of society we have in mind. These
considerations pave the way for our second conclusion. One of the fundamental problems of education
in and for a democratic society is set by the conflict of a nationalistic and a wider social
aim. The earlier cosmopolitan and "humanitarian" conception suffered both from vagueness and
from lack of definite organs of execution and agencies of administration. In Europe, in the
Continental states particularly, the new idea of the importance of education for human welfare
and progress was captured by national interests and harnessed to do a work whose social aim
was definitely narrow and exclusive. The social aim of education and its national aim were
identified, and the result was a marked obscuring of the meaning of a social aim.

This confusion corresponds to the existing situation of human intercourse. On the one hand,
science, commerce, and art transcend national boundaries. They are largely international in
quality and method. They involve interdependencies and cooperation among the peoples inhabiting
different countries. At the same time, the idea of national sovereignty has never been as accentuated
in politics as it is at the present time. Each nation lives in a state of suppressed hostility
and incipient war with its neighbors. Each is supposed to be the supreme judge of its own interests,
and it is assumed as matter of course that each has interests which are exclusively its own.
To question this is to question the very idea of national sovereignty which is assumed to be
basic to political practice and political science. This contradiction (for it is nothing less)
between the wider sphere of associated and mutually helpful social life and the narrower sphere
of exclusive and hence potentially hostile pursuits and purposes, exacts of educational theory
a clearer conception of the meaning of "social" as a function and test of education than has
yet been attained. Is it possible for an educational system to be conducted by a national state
and yet the full social ends of the educative process not be restricted, constrained, and corrupted?
Internally, the question has to face the tendencies, due to present economic conditions, which
split society into classes some of which are made merely tools for the higher culture of others.
Externally, the question is concerned with the reconciliation of national loyalty, of patriotism,
with superior devotion to the things which unite men in common ends, irrespective of national
political boundaries. Neither phase of the problem can be worked out by merely negative means.
It is not enough to see to it that education is not actively used as an instrument to make
easier the exploitation of one class by another. School facilities must be secured of such
amplitude and efficiency as will in fact and not simply in name discount the effects of economic
inequalities, and secure to all the wards of the nation equality of equipment for their future
careers. Accomplishment of this end demands not only adequate administrative provision of school
facilities, and such supplementation of family resources as will enable youth to take advantage
of them, but also such modification of traditional ideals of culture, traditional subjects
of study and traditional methods of teaching and discipline as will retain all the youth under
educational influences until they are equipped to be masters of their own economic and social
careers. The ideal may seem remote of execution, but the democratic ideal of education is a
farcical yet tragic delusion except as the ideal more and more dominates our public system
of education. The same principle has application on the side of the considerations which concern
the relations of one nation to another. It is not enough to teach the horrors of war and to
avoid everything which would stimulate international jealousy and animosity. The emphasis must
be put upon whatever binds people together in cooperative human pursuits and results, apart
from geographical limitations. The secondary and provisional character of national sovereignty
in respect to the fuller, freer, and more fruitful association and intercourse of all human
beings with one another must be instilled as a working disposition of mind. If these applications
seem to be remote from a consideration of the philosophy of education, the impression shows
that the meaning of the idea of education previously developed has not been adequately grasped.
This conclusion is bound up with the very idea of education as a freeing of individual capacity
in a progressive growth directed to social aims. Otherwise a democratic criterion of education
can only be inconsistently applied.

Summary. Since education is a social process, and there are many kinds of societies, a criterion
for educational criticism and construction implies a particular social ideal. The two points
selected by which to measure the worth of a form of social life are the extent in which the
interests of a group are shared by all its members, and the fullness and freedom with which
it interacts with other groups. An undesirable society, in other words, is one which internally
and externally sets up barriers to free intercourse and communication of experience. A society
which makes provision for participation in its good of all its members on equal terms and which
secures flexible readjustment of its institutions through interaction of the different forms
of associated life is in so far democratic. The vacuum as usually conceived, is an extension or space without a body,
is something contradictory as that body is to assume, therefore that extension means, and no
body, therefore it is supposed to removed.

Descartes simply accept the ultimate consequences of this doctrine. Thus, proposing the difficulty
Founded in which we imagine that God could remove all matter contained in a glass, staying
the same shape of the glass, answered firmly that this is impossible. "For we can, he says,
correcting an opinion so false, we see that there is no necessary link between the glass and
body that you full, but it is so absolutely necessary between concave glass figure, and the
extension must be included in this concavity, which there is more reluctance to conceive a mountain
without a valley, that such an extension without the concavity it contains, and this extension
without any extended thing, because it's nothing, as has been observed many times, can not
have extension. For which reason, if we are asked What would happen if God removed the whole
body is in a glass, without allowing enter another answer to the sides of this vessel would
be found so close, that would play immediately. For two bodies must touch when there is nothing
between them, it would be contradiction in these two bodies were apart, ie have distance from
each other, and that this distance was not anything. Distance is a extension property that
can not exist without the extension "(Princ. of Filos. p. 2. § 18).

[56.] If cinemas Descartes argued that space, because it contains real distances can not be a pure
nothing, its reasoning would seem conclusive, but when he adds that the space is the body, for
the reason that space extension and the extension is the essence the body, seat does not prove a thing.
They do not conceive or imagine body without extension, only follows that the extension is a property
of the body, without which we will not conceive, but not that is its essence. To be sure of
this, it would be necessary as we have the idea of ​​extension, the body we had also to see if among
them are identity. But the bodies we know nothing but what we experienced through the senses,
without being there been given to penetrate the intimate nature.

Where does the inseparability of the extension and body ideas? Born from the idea that body we
have is a confused idea, as conceived as a substance that is a relationship with us, and because
the impressions we call sensations. And as we have shown above, the basis of feelings is the extension,
this is the only conduit through which we put ourselves in relation to the body. When this
base we need, because without it, we have no body but a general idea of ​​being, or of substance,
not anything that characterizes and distinguishes him from the rest. All these things are in the order
of our ideas, but we can not infer that the bodies themselves did
not actually nothing more than extension.

[57.] With the same reasoning is destroyed the opinion of the infinite or indefinite extension.
Descartes unwrapping his doctrine on the idea of ​​extension, said: "We will know too this world, or
the extended matter that makes up the universe has no limits: because where we propose to pretend
they want, we can imagine further, spaces indefinitely extended, not only imagine, but we conceive
to be such in fact as we imagine; of luck containing an extensive
body indefinitely, because the idea of ​​extension which we conceive
in all space, is the true idea that we have the body "(ib. p. 2.

§ 21).

In this passage, but the error on the essence of bodies, there is free transit of a purely ideal,
or rather imaginary, to a real order. It is true that wherever I imagine the limits of the universe
as an immense dome, denying, still imagine outside the dome new wastes of space that my fantasy
is submerged, but this infer that the reality is as I imagine, does
not seem very tight to the rules of sound logic. When cells are built, the queen lays eggs in them; when eggs are laid,
they are sealed and bees brood them and keep them at a temperature required to hatch them.
When they are hatched, bees feed the young till they can take care of themselves. Now we are
so familiar with such facts, that we are apt to dismiss them on the ground that life and instinct
are a kind of miraculous thing anyway. Thus we fail to note what the essential characteristic
of the event is; namely, the significance of the temporal place and order of each element;
the way each prior event leads into its successor while the successor takes up what is furnished
and utilizes it for some other stage, until we arrive at the end, which, as it were, summarizes
and finishes off the process. Since aims relate always to results, the first thing to look
to when it is a question of aims, is whether the work assigned possesses intrinsic continuity.
Or is it a mere serial aggregate of acts, first doing one thing and then another? To talk about
an educational aim when approximately each act of a pupil is dictated by the teacher, when
the only order in the sequence of his acts is that which comes from the assignment of lessons
and the giving of directions by another, is to talk nonsense. It is equally fatal to an aim
to permit capricious or discontinuous action in the name of spontaneous self-expression. An
aim implies an orderly and ordered activity, one in which the order consists in the progressive
completing of a process. Given an activity having a time span and cumulative growth within
the time succession, an aim means foresight in advance of the end or possible termination.
If bees anticipated the consequences of their activity, if they perceived their end in imaginative
foresight, they would have the primary element in an aim. Hence it is nonsense to talk about
the aim of education--or any other undertaking--where conditions do not permit of foresight
of results, and do not stimulate a person to look ahead to see what the outcome of a given
activity is to be. In the next place the aim as a foreseen end gives direction to the activity;
it is not an idle view of a mere spectator, but influences the steps taken to reach the end.
The foresight functions in three ways. In the first place, it involves careful observation
of the given conditions to see what are the means available for reaching the end, and to discover
the hindrances in the way. In the second place, it suggests the proper order or sequence in
the use of means. It facilitates an economical selection and arrangement. In the third place,
it makes choice of alternatives possible. If we can predict the outcome of acting this way
or that, we can then compare the value of the two courses of action; we can pass judgment upon
their relative desirability. If we know that stagnant water breeds mosquitoes and that they
are likely to carry disease, we can, disliking that anticipated result, take steps to avert
it. Since we do not anticipate results as mere intellectual onlookers, but as persons concerned
in the outcome, we are partakers in the process which produces the result. We intervene to
bring about this result or that.

Of course these three points are closely connected with one another. We can definitely foresee
results only as we make careful scrutiny of present conditions, and the importance of the outcome
supplies the motive for observations. The more adequate our observations, the more varied is
the scene of conditions and obstructions that presents itself, and the more numerous are the
alternatives between which choice may be made. In turn, the more numerous the recognized possibilities
of the situation, or alternatives of action, the more meaning does the chosen activity possess,
and the more flexibly controllable is it. Where only a single outcome has been thought of,
the mind has nothing else to think of; the meaning attaching to the act is limited. One only
steams ahead toward the mark. Sometimes such a narrow course may be effective. But if unexpected
difficulties offer themselves, one has not as many resources at command as if he had chosen
the same line of action after a broader survey of the possibilities of the field. He cannot
make needed readjustments readily.

The net conclusion is that acting with an aim is all one with acting intelligently. To foresee
a terminus of an act is to have a basis upon which to observe, to select, and to order objects
and our own capacities. To do these things means to have a mind--for mind is precisely intentional
purposeful activity controlled by perception of facts and their relationships to one another.
To have a mind to do a thing is to foresee a future possibility; it is to have a plan for its
accomplishment; it is to note the means which make the plan capable of execution and the obstructions
in the way,--or, if it is really a mind to do the thing and not a vague aspiration--it is to
have a plan which takes account of resources and difficulties. Mind is capacity to refer present
conditions to future results, and future consequences to present conditions. And these traits
are just what is meant by having an aim or a purpose. A man is stupid or blind or unintelligent--lacking
in mind--just in the degree in which in any activity he does not know what he is about, namely,
the probable consequences of his acts. A man is imperfectly intelligent when he contents himself
with looser guesses about the outcome than is needful, just taking a chance with his luck,
or when he forms plans apart from study of the actual conditions, including his own capacities.
Such relative absence of mind means to make our feelings the measure of what is to happen.
To be intelligent we must "stop, look, listen" in making the plan of an activity.

To identify acting with an aim and intelligent activity is enough to show its value--its function
in experience. We are only too given to making an entity out of the abstract noun "consciousness."
We forget that it comes from the adjective "conscious." To be conscious is to be aware of what
we are about; conscious signifies the deliberate, observant, planning traits of activity. Consciousness
is nothing which we have which gazes idly on the scene around one or which has impressions
made upon it by physical things; it is a name for the purposeful quality of an activity, for
the fact that it is directed by an aim. Put the other way about, to have an aim is to act with
meaning, not like an automatic machine; it is to mean to do something and to perceive the meaning
of things in the light of that intent.

2. The Criteria of Good Aims. We may apply the results of our discussion to a consideration
of the criteria involved in a correct establishing of aims. (1) The aim set up must be an outgrowth
of existing conditions. It must be based upon a consideration of what is already going on;
upon the resources and difficulties of the situation. Theories about the proper end of our
activities--educational and moral theories--often violate this principle. They assume ends
lying outside our activities; ends foreign to the concrete makeup of the situation; ends which
issue from some outside source. Then the problem is to bring our activities to bear upon the
realization of these externally supplied ends. They are something for which we ought to act.
In any case such "aims" limit intelligence; they are not the expression of mind in foresight,
observation, and choice of the better among alternative possibilities. They limit intelligence
because, given ready-made, they must be imposed by some authority external to intelligence,
leaving to the latter nothing but a mechanical choice of means.

(2) We have spoken as if aims could be completely formed prior to the attempt to realize them.
This impression must now be qualified. The aim as it first emerges is a mere tentative sketch.
The act of striving to realize it tests its worth. If it suffices to direct activity successfully,
nothing more is required, since its whole function is to set a mark in advance; and at times
a mere hint may suffice. But usually--at least in complicated situations--acting upon it brings
to light conditions which had been overlooked. This calls for revision of the original aim;
it has to be added to and subtracted from. An aim must, then, be flexible; it must be capable
of alteration to meet circumstances. An end established externally to the process of action
is always rigid. Being inserted or imposed from without, it is not supposed to have a working
relationship to the concrete conditions of the situation. From where the pen was not seen anything but the top of
some brown planted outside the wall, the steeple of the church with its dented auction, after
the manner of old hat, the big stick and a poplar lackluster invalid and almost dying, and the
tiles of the adjacent house, which on stormy days sprinkled with plenty of cried the yard and garden.
The vine, the vine and honeysuckle bush, barely covered between three full extent of the wall,
bristling with broken glass on top, which served as impregnable bulwark against foxes and
little boys.

This reduced the landscape, in addition to the vast and ever-beautiful
sky, so splendid day as imposing and mysterious night.

The pen (why should not we give it life?) Lay, as we, along with several objects rather ignoble,
own the place, and constantly exposed to be trodden by the barbarian
plant geese, chickens and even other little animals but clean and
decent had room in a nearby swamp.

I must not say that the pen must be very boring, as if a soul have delicate, air and supple body,
the consequence is that the soul could not live happy described in the corral. By a mysterious harmony
between the elements of that be if the body looked like a ghost of matter, the soul had been
created to fly and soar heights, rising to the longest distance possible on the ground, in which
ever mud should touch the lace of her subtle almost imperceptible cover. For this was born certainly,
but it, like us men remained predestination an empty word. Was the poor in the corral, lamenting
his fate, staring at the sky, without distraction in the wind see the whites of her clothes
festoons undefiled, and saying in the unknown language of feathers: "I do not know how annoying stand
this life. It's better to die a hundred times.

"

Other equally sad lot said, but at the same moment a gust of wind who put in turmoil all straw and
small objects thrown in the pen, the suspended, Unexpected oh joy! raising it on the ground more
than half a yard. For short time was fluctuating back and forth, threatening to fall at times
and going back others with large din of the chickens, who saw this white thing was walking
through the air such majesty, went behind her waiting for her in the fall, hoping it was something
eating. But the wind blew more loudly, and with a strong swirling around the campus the pen,
drew it out quickly. When she saw higher than the wall, higher than the house, the chestnut,
the height of poplar, trembled all over with excitement and admiration. Arribita there, the wind
swayed, holding no violent shaking, seemed to sway in visible hammock or in the arms of a loving
genius. From there, what a sight! Down the pen with chickens scratching constantly restless,
the garden, the house, the chestnut trees poplar, how small what once seemed so big! Then, the
whole expanse of beautiful Valley village of houses, trees, flowers, cattle, in the distance
the mountains with their slopes covered with forests, red and blue eminences and peaks encaperuzadas
with a whiteness in which our traveler thought he saw huge piles of feathers above the endless
sky, the morning sun making bright colors throughout the landscape, water scribbling ray of light
producing reflections quivering in the foliage of the elms, and reverberating in the crops straw
scattered here and there patches of poppies. This itself is called live! Tremendous thing would
be to fall back into the corral.

The pen, at the height of his joy, found no better way to express it spinning on its axis, so
that although its members orearan wet and shivering, bathed in the sun fluffy, cupping with
some tiny fringe vanity that your body is composed. The sun shone in between the interstices
of one thousand wonderful fit, and our traveler was seen threads of glass dressed more tenuous
than that spiders tend branch to branch, and covered with diamonds, emeralds and rubies ranging
from light to every move, and so tiny, the grains of sand mountains
appear at his side.

Extending the view of the valley, the mountains, the horizon, and wanting to cross it all to the end,
was in the pen work of a moment. His amazement and joy knew no bounds, and if at first surprise
kept at that height, rambling, without detracting from their status First, after a bit and feeling
Serenada on his chest (?) the fire of enthusiasm, was launched in the immense space, genie arms.
Gone pen, house, village, the tower of the church, as a giant panicked, was walking too large
to miss Zanchetta of view. In the excitement of that giddy flight, the pen sometimes rose so high,
I could barely distinguish objects, others down to almost to the ground, and looked their fleeting
image in the green surface of the puddles. Sometimes going back then, that seemed confused with the
clouds and disappear into the vast ocean of space down sometimes Therefore, it very nearly touched
the ground, and in language unknown to the wind said: "Put me down a little friend, I get dizzy
at these heights, "or" please pick me up, buddy, I'm going to fall
in that quagmire.

"

The wind, compliant vehicle, up and down as desired, always walk, and spent valleys, rivers,
mountains, hills, towns, without stopping. On their journey, the pen never stopped admire what
he saw. The birds spent singing along to it, the butterflies stopped, watching her in amazement, we
fail to understand if it was a living thing or object carried by the wind. When they were near
land and went skimming over brambles and thorny plants, you'd think all bristling barbs and claws
to get it, and fly over a pond, geese returning from the bank's head sideways at her, and hopefully
to see her fall, ran screeching after it: - "Lift me up, buddy,"
he cried, refusing to hear these barbarians.

"

CANTO FIRST

And rose to the top of the mountain, passing the ridge, and traveled another valley, and so all
the way, never stopping. Both walked the pen, feeling satisfied their curiosity, swirled, gave
a few turns on itself, and told the genius that drove:

"You know we've run enough? Do not be chosen in place to take a break? Ay, friend! Although he wanted
to leave the pen to travel the world, you believe that what I like is the quiet and peaceable
life.

For a moment I thought that happiness is to fly from here to there, seeing different things
every minute, and receive different impressions. And I'm convinced it is better to remain quietly
in one place a not be as ugly as poultry, live without fear or danger. I see there, near the
river, large trees, which I think the most beautiful place we found on our trip. "

Drew near and saw indeed that the shade of those trees was the site most appealing and delicious
than a pen could aspire to spend their days. Fine lawn covered the ground near the river ran
with gentle flow, not so quick to drag and Turning the soil of the green margins, nor so slow that
muddied the waters: easy was to count all the stones from the bottom, but not the multitude of fish
that wander over its transparent glass. The branches of trees, living sifting the sunshine,
kept in warm darkness the small meadow, and from there all the insects had fled importunate and dirty,
and all birds irrelevant and frivolous.

The few things that were there pitch or with a permanent residence, were the most learned and
distinguished of creation: insects dresses gold and decorated with
wonderful jewels, birds sang sentimental and discrete their love in
courtly style, and only at certain hours of the morning or afternoon.

It was noon, and all were silent at the top of the branches, entertaining spirit in abstract meditations.

'Fresh
and beautiful place this is! - Said the ruffled feathers of enthusiasm to be there .-- Here I spend
my whole life, all, all, I repeat not safely complete range of purpose.

Wandered beneath the shade of the trees, sliding on the cool grass, when he saw approaching a shepherd,
guiding two dozen sheep with the odd lamb, and a dog that served custody and companionship.
The pastor was concerned, walking, weaving a crown of flowers that brought on the side, and such
was her beauty, grace and elegance, the pen was absorbed.

He sat the girl, and the pen again soaring through the air, spun around his admiring up close and from
afar, and the whiteness of complexion, and expression and brightness eyes and black hair, and
his lips turned on, each and every one of the perfections copy of such creature.

"Here I have to be a lifetime - the traveler exclaimed in his convoluted language .-- This really
is live. I never tire of looking at it, but live a thousand years. What I have done well to settle
here ... and what a great thing to love!

Thank God I've found happiness. How sweet he spends his time looking at her, now and then and
always! What pleasure equal to that of skim her hair and stroking her forehead with my flequitos?
What I can be more ambitious than let me slip from his neck to sneak ... I do not know where, or
hide in your clothes and meat tickling estarme there for all eternity? This drives me crazy ...
and indeed I am madly in love.

Here and not away from it for a moment, I spend all life. "

The pen was flying and falling away around the pastor, until he came
to rest gently on his shoulder, and he made a thousand grimaces and
fuss with their fringes.

He saw the girl that object White, who at first tried to be anything but delicate falling branches
of the tree, and took her, squeezed between his fingers and threw it from him with contemptuous
indifference. A while later called to his flock and left.

Much took our unfortunate traveler return from his swoon. He opened his eyes in vain sought
the object of his tender passion, recognizing the site, shaking his bruised sockets and broken,
and gave the wind its complaints in this way:

"Oh, little wind, get me out of here, for the blessed souls, lift me up, I am dying of sadness.
I want to run again, as I now understand that happiness does not exist in what I thought.
Good silly I was! Love is not only fatigue and pain. Just love that I know tired and what it
brings. We'll fly again, and go where you want, buddy. I really I say that I carry these trees
and the river: I'm already up to the crown of lawns, meadows, streams
and birds.

Let us make a turn into the world.

Lift me: I go up clouds. That is, the way I like: Lift me up all
you can.

Look, there in the distance is reached to see a house that has to
be very large: Do you see how bright the sunlight, as if it were silver,
and next is again and again, many, many houses?

No doubt that is what called a city. That's what I want to see. Thank God I find what I like.
Let's go right there, and let us hills and valleys, places unfit for this my genius ... Now, now you
look closely the city. In this magnificent palace that we first saw we have to put. Run, run
more, which I do not think we ever.

NOTE:

[1] Sorry oh reader! was about to commit the irreverence to call this poem.

SECOND CANTO

Soon found themselves near a palace of marble, so great and beautiful that even the same mysterious
genius, that led to our friend, he was preoccupied with such magnificence. Revelry could be heard
there as dance or feast, and amazing music. Flags floated on the minarets and rooftops, and
windows reason people looked happy and busy.

"Inside, my friend - said the pen, - Colemon this balcony is wide open."

They did so, found inside a large room in which there were even a hundred people vast sitting around
table, full of rich delicacies and adorned with flowers, all set sovereign art and magnificence.
Was equal to the number of men to women, and if between had those
of different ages, they were all young and beautiful.

The servants wore very rich costumes, and endless harmonious musicians played sonatas on top of
a large rostrum.

The guests were lying on cushions covered in colorful tapestries adorned them with flowers and
dressed so lightly and gracefully, her beauty could not fail to appear embossed with ornaments so indiscreet.
The laughter, voices and music, impressing the hearing, the aroma of flowers and the smell snack
foods and spirits, injuring the nose; the liveliness of the eyes, the variety of colors, affecting
vision, produced in that place a fascination that would put the kibosh on the strength of all the
hermits of the Thebaid.

The pen, wandering through the ceiling of the room felt that since the table came up to caress
her senses the sweet fumes of the table and got drunk with the fragrance of wine poured in incessantly
in golden goblets.

His enthusiasm and joy knew no bounds, and let his tongue in such a way that did not stop talking
all day, telling his companion and driver:

"This really is delicious, my friend, this is really live. Well I tell you that here we to find
happiness, well I would announce my heart! Are driving me Tarumba the emanations from those birds,
those spices, the fruits of those spirits that appear to, lead itself the seeds of life and infuse
us encouragement and joy. Repairs in inflammatory beauty do these women: what looks! What breasts!
How great of their own bodies! How lovely smile on his lips! But do not you go crazy like me? Here
I estarme entire life, you know? There is no doubt that life is pleasure, and great fools are
those who walk around flowing dull over hill and dale. And I was so stupid I saw the happiness
in love tasteless pastor that inspired me! How easily we were wrong! ... but I have known my
error, and I have the assurance of not more wrong. It's because I have much experience, do not
believe, and from now on I know I have to do. Thank God I found the ultimate: here, here until
I die. What a pleasure, and what wine, and why so dizzy delicious! Sublime is this, and how unhappy
those who do not know! "

The meal progressed, and the madness of the guests played to its limit: the amphorae had been
and his latest offering of wine, the guests had made them refilled, and even women, stunned,
or shouted savagely with a lazy contemplation or silent.

The pen was also felt woozy: it began to go round and round in the air until little by little lost
consciousness of what had happened.

Preserving a remnant of vague knowledge, felt that the voices away, falling furniture, which
broke with a clatter of glasses; Silence the musicians, which obscured the sun, replaced a
dim light of torches; after they became extinct, that everything was silent. Then he felt
down, abandoned genius of his mysterious friend saw the flowers wilted
and trampled on the ground, the remains Food thrown into disorder
and exhaling foul odor; all mixed and dispersed, and no living person
in the room.

In his swoon judged slowly passing hours and hours, which after dawn, and someone finally showed
signs of life at the palace yesterday's delight and sadness today. The footsteps approached
and tried to unknown hands in order the remains of the feast. Then he was violently dragged to
the influence of a rough order: opened his eyes, and with a clear head, and saw that it was impelled
by a broom. The sweeping together with a multitude of objects mean, rumpled, foul and pestiferous:
leaves trampled flowers, pieces of glass still wet with wine, fruit kernels still covered
saliva, crusts of bread, salmon bones with any shred of flesh, a
speckled band salsa, strawberries Crushers, including wearing a pin
dyed reddish juice that looked like a murderer's knife, ham scraps,
banana skins and some eyes puff Fish that have fixed their broken
heads, seemed to contemplate with wonder and terror such show.

Among these objects, shooting everyone in droves, our pen was pushed
by the broom to to stop a large basket, from where he threw a pen
a thousand times more foul than that of he had left.

To see one so much garbage, bruised, torn, dirty, smelling of wine, spices, grease, saliva,
began to complain with these pathetic words:

"Oh, little wind of my soul, lift me and take me out of here, God and all the saints! I'm dying
in this pile of filth, I I want to be free and pure as before. A faith that you have worn,
feather. What a mistake so gross! Has largely come to the conclusion that bright day pleasure
and happiness. I do not say to me that pleasure brings nothing but degradation, lowliness, pain
and misery. For a little bit of joy, how bitter! And thank God that I come out alive. Luckily
not for me to fall back. Get me out of here, man, and God give you all the kingdoms of the
earth and sea, take me or I die in this rot. "

The genie quickly rose to the very great height, and there is recessed
above all, full glad, to purify and aerate your body.

Looked away from the palace and the city and then both went on without knowing where they went.

"Not quiet annoying fields, nor the palaces, which are mansion of boredom, I make my fucking grace
- the pen said .-- For we must find strength as soon block my genius. See? Or I am much mistaken,
or that crowd that occupies the plain before us, We will stop there with the sublime spectacle
of an act. Let soon, because I hear curiosity. Or I do not know what they are hosts, or whatever
currency there are two that will meet and fight. Sublime event! Blessed be God who has given
us occasion to witness a battle!

Here's one thing that excites me. I fell I for battle. Glory!

I tell you I lose my head when I talk about this. Afternoon was, my friend, but I've finally
found the standard of my destiny. Look, I will start. Above Coloquémonos those who seem to
be the leaders of one of the two armies, and see which will assemble here.

CANTO THREE

Indeed, two large and powerful armies were to hit that plateau. Why describe the brightness of weapons,
shields companies, the ardor of the combatants, the neighing of horses and other accidents uppers
fray? The pen, throbbing with emotion, saw the first meetings, and kept her eyes seemed to be
the king of the army who later decided the victory. The so-king wore a golden helmet, armor burnished
steel, and pressed the back of superb gray horse.

None equaled him in anger and boldness, why its people, enthusiastic about such an example, which overwhelmed
the contrary if were flocks of sheep.

Our traveling did not know how to express their frantic joy to the sublime tragedy.

"The glory! What a thing is glory! - Exclaimed, following as close as possible to the king .-- I
am victorious in my heart: this is life, this is what block to my
genius, this is Happiness: Thank God I found what I wanted.

And I was so stupid that I missed time on frivolous pleasures love and light! The truth is that
a silly mistake! But I have experience, and I do not equivocate more. Glory is what most exalted the
soul. Look, my little friend, how to overcome the locals. And others are retreating. Grande
and mighty king! Give half of my life get on top of his helmet, of that golden helmet at whose summit
will be inclined to Terror to all kings and nations of the earth. Come this alienates me. Do
not you hear how creak weapons, how the horses neigh and how blaspheme fighters, fired in
martial courage? Glorious death of some, and glorious victory of the others! "

This was decisive for the king of the golden helmet and the gray horse. His victorious army pursued
on his heels to the enemy, and followed the triumphant march pen hovering over his head the
hero. Fatigue-ran until night came. Then he stopped, satisfied have wiped out in their flight the
opposing army. Vencederos camped, all hell broke King's tent, food and bedding preparósele,
and at that time for reflection and rest, after the first excitement, until the pen fell to
the ground covered with corpses, blood, ruins.

Then the traveler felt icy cold, extraordinary fatigue and drowsiness that overcame evoking memories
of the epic battle. In his slumber, he thought he felt the cries of the wounded, mixed with
horrible imprecations. They soon come mothers, sisters, tender children, holding each other,
because the pain loosened their faint bodies, illuminating With sad
flashlight to find the father, son, husband, brother.

Men's horrible average between the executioner and undertaker, and loose dug deep pit, where they were
thrown the unhappy dead of both armies. The holy women found even
among those offal, poorly covered by the earth, loved ones, and even
had dug for them out again if the voices and cries that were heard
no more than give them hope elsewhere that would perhaps seeking.
Lugubrious cawing, lowered vultures and other birds which have their
feast in the fields of battle, the rain waterlogged the ground, kneading
beds of mud and blood for the poor dead, and cold finished off the
wounded hoping to escape death. Tremendous night! Returning from his
lethargy, was observed the pen that he had seen was no hallucination,
but actually very clear. Tried to flee, but stood in awe, because
at the nearby King's tent shouting and swearing sounded strong clash
of arms. Several men got out of there fighting, and a voice said:
"Death to the tyrant," and other exclaimed, "have killed the king!"
Indeed, this was, the hero was victorious been sacrificed for its
ambitious generals, eager to share the loot and seize kingdom. 

"Wind
dear, my dear, get me out of here - he shouted and waved his pen .--
fringe to fly Lift me; Take me by these winds of God, I do not want
to see so many horrors. But it is hardly necessary
to say that primitive impulses are of themselves neither good nor evil, but become one or the
other according to the objects for which they are employed. That neglect, suppression, and
premature forcing of some instincts at the expense of others, are responsible for many avoidable
ills, there can be no doubt. But the moral is not to leave them alone to follow their own "spontaneous
development," but to provide an environment which shall organize them.

Returning to the elements of truth contained in Rousseau's statements, we find that natural
development, as an aim, enables him to point the means of correcting many evils in current
practices, and to indicate a number of desirable specific aims. (1) Natural development as
an aim fixes attention upon the bodily organs and the need of health and vigor. The aim of
natural development says to parents and teachers: Make health an aim; normal development cannot
be had without regard to the vigor of the body--an obvious enough fact and yet one whose due
recognition in practice would almost automatically revolutionize many of our educational practices.
"Nature" is indeed a vague and metaphorical term, but one thing that "Nature" may be said to
utter is that there are conditions of educational efficiency, and that till we have learned
what these conditions are and have learned to make our practices accord with them, the noblest
and most ideal of our aims are doomed to suffer--are verbal and sentimental rather than efficacious.

(2) The aim of natural development translates into the aim of respect for physical mobility.
In Rousseau's words: "Children are always in motion; a sedentary life is injurious." When he
says that "Nature's intention is to strengthen the body before exercising the mind" he hardly
states the fact fairly. But if he had said that nature's "intention" (to adopt his poetical
form of speech) is to develop the mind especially by exercise of the muscles of the body he
would have stated a positive fact. In other words, the aim of following nature means, in the
concrete, regard for the actual part played by use of the bodily organs in explorations, in
handling of materials, in plays and games. (3) The general aim translates into the aim of regard
for individual differences among children. Nobody can take the principle of consideration of
native powers into account without being struck by the fact that these powers differ in different
individuals. The difference applies not merely to their intensity, but even more to their quality
and arrangement. As Rouseau said: "Each individual is born with a distinctive temperament.
We indiscriminately employ children of different bents on the same exercises; their education
destroys the special bent and leaves a dull uniformity. Therefore after we have wasted our
efforts in stunting the true gifts of nature we see the short-lived and illusory brilliance
we have substituted die away, while the natural abilities we have crushed do not revive."

Lastly, the aim of following nature means to note the origin, the waxing, and waning, of preferences
and interests. Capacities bud and bloom irregularly; there is no even four-abreast development.
We must strike while the iron is hot. Especially precious are the first dawnings of power.
More than we imagine, the ways in which the tendencies of early childhood are treated fix fundamental
dispositions and condition the turn taken by powers that show themselves later. Educational
concern with the early years of life--as distinct from inculcation of useful arts--dates almost
entirely from the time of the emphasis by Pestalozzi and Froebel, following Rousseau, of natural
principles of growth. The irregularity of growth and its significance is indicated in the following
passage of a student of the growth of the nervous system. "While growth continues, things bodily
and mental are lopsided, for growth is never general, but is accentuated now at one spot, now
at another. The methods which shall recognize in the presence of these enormous differences
of endowment the dynamic values of natural inequalities of growth, and utilize them, preferring
irregularity to the rounding out gained by pruning will most closely follow that which takes
place in the body and thus prove most effective." 1 Observation of natural tendencies is difficult
under conditions of restraint. They show themselves most readily in a child's spontaneous sayings
and doings,--that is, in those he engages in when not put at set tasks and when not aware of
being under observation. It does not follow that these tendencies are all desirable because
they are natural; but it does follow that since they are there, they are operative and must
be taken account of. We must see to it that the desirable ones have an environment which keeps
them active, and that their activity shall control the direction the others take and thereby
induce the disuse of the latter because they lead to nothing. Many tendencies that trouble
parents when they appear are likely to be transitory, and sometimes too much direct attention
to them only fixes a child's attention upon them. At all events, adults too easily assume their
own habits and wishes as standards, and regard all deviations of children's impulses as evils
to be eliminated. That artificiality against which the conception of following nature is so
largely a protest, is the outcome of attempts to force children directly into the mold of grown-up
standards.

In conclusion, we note that the early history of the idea of following nature combined two
factors which had no inherent connection with one another. Before the time of Rousseau educational
reformers had been inclined to urge the importance of education by ascribing practically unlimited
power to it. All the differences between peoples and between classes and persons among the
same people were said to be due to differences of training, of exercise, and practice. Originally,
mind, reason, understanding is, for all practical purposes, the same in all. This essential
identity of mind means the essential equality of all and the possibility of bringing them all
to the same level. As a protest against this view, the doctrine of accord with nature meant
a much less formal and abstract view of mind and its powers. It substituted specific instincts
and impulses and physiological capacities, differing from individual to individual (just as
they differ, as Rousseau pointed out, even in dogs of the same litter), for abstract faculties
of discernment, memory, and generalization. Upon this side, the doctrine of educative accord
with nature has been reinforced by the development of modern biology, physiology, and psychology.
It means, in effect, that great as is the significance of nurture, of modification, and transformation
through direct educational effort, nature, or unlearned capacities, affords the foundation
and ultimate resources for such nurture. On the other hand, the doctrine of following nature
was a political dogma. It meant a rebellion against existing social institutions, customs,
and ideals (See ante, p. 91). Rousseau's statement that everything is good as it comes from
the hands of the Creator has its signification only in its contrast with the concluding part
of the same sentence: "Everything degenerates in the hands of man." And again he says: "Natural
man has an absolute value; he is a numerical unit, a complete integer and has no relation save
to himself and to his fellow man. Civilized man is only a relative unit, the numerator of a
fraction whose value depends upon its dominator, its relation to the integral body of society.
Good political institutions are those which make a man unnatural." It is upon this conception
of the artificial and harmful character of organized social life as it now exists 2 that he
rested the notion that nature not merely furnishes prime forces which initiate growth but also
its plan and goal. That evil institutions and customs work almost automatically to give a wrong
education which the most careful schooling cannot offset is true enough; but the conclusion
is not to education apart from the environment, but to provide an environment in which native
powers will be put to better uses.

2. Social Efficiency as Aim. A conception which made nature supply the end of a true education
and society the end of an evil one, could hardly fail to call out a protest. The opposing emphasis
took the form of a doctrine that the business of education is to supply precisely what nature
fails to secure; namely, habituation of an individual to social control; subordination of natural
powers to social rules. It is not surprising to find that the value in the idea of social efficiency
resides largely in its protest against the points at which the doctrine of natural development
went astray; while its misuse comes when it is employed to slur over the truth in that conception.
It is a fact that we must look to the activities and achievements of associated life to find
what the development of power--that is to say, efficiency--means. The error is in implying
that we must adopt measures of subordination rather than of utilization to secure efficiency.
The doctrine is rendered adequate when we recognize that social efficiency is attained not
by negative constraint but by positive use of native individual capacities in occupations having
a social meaning. (1) Translated into specific aims, social efficiency indicates the importance
of industrial competency. Persons cannot live without means of subsistence; the ways in which
these means are employed and consumed have a profound influence upon all the relationships
of persons to one another. If an individual is not able to earn his own living and that of
the children dependent upon him, he is a drag or parasite upon the activities of others. He
misses for himself one of the most educative experiences of life. If he is not trained in the
right use of the products of industry, there is grave danger that he may deprave himself and
injure others in his possession of wealth. No scheme of education can afford to neglect such
basic considerations. Yet in the name of higher and more spiritual ideals, the arrangements
for higher education have often not only neglected them, but looked at them with scorn as beneath
the level of educative concern. With the change from an oligarchical to a democratic society,
it is natural that the significance of an education which should have as a result ability to
make one's way economically in the world, and to manage economic resources usefully instead
of for mere display and luxury, should receive emphasis.

There is, however, grave danger that in insisting upon this end, existing economic conditions
and standards will be accepted as final. A democratic criterion requires us to develop capacity
to the point of competency to choose and make its own career. This principle is violated when
the attempt is made to fit individuals in advance for definite industrial callings, selected
not on the basis of trained original capacities, but on that of the wealth or social status
of parents. As a matter of fact, industry at the present time undergoes rapid and abrupt changes
through the evolution of new inventions. New industries spring up, and old ones are revolutionized.
Consequently an attempt to train for too specific a mode of efficiency defeats its own purpose.
When the occupation changes its methods, such individuals are left behind with even less ability
to readjust themselves than if they had a less definite training. But, most of all, the present
industrial constitution of society is, like every society which has ever existed, full of inequities.
It is the aim of progressive education to take part in correcting unfair privilege and unfair
deprivation, not to perpetuate them. Wherever social control means subordination of individual
activities to class authority, there is danger that industrial education will be dominated
by acceptance of the status quo. Differences of economic opportunity then dictate what the
future callings of individuals are to be. We have an unconscious revival of the defects of
the Platonic scheme (ante, p. 89) without its enlightened method of selection.

(2) Civic efficiency, or good citizenship. It is, of course, arbitrary to separate industrial
competency from capacity in good citizenship. But the latter term may be used to indicate a
number of qualifications which are vaguer than vocational ability. These traits run from whatever
make an individual a more agreeable companion to citizenship in the political sense: it denotes
ability to judge men and measures wisely and to take a determining part in making as well as
obeying laws. The aim of civic efficiency has at least the merit of protecting us from the
notion of a training of mental power at large. It calls attention to the fact that power must
be relative to doing something, and to the fact that the things which most need to be done
are things which involve one's relationships with others.

Here again we have to be on guard against understanding the aim too narrowly. An over-definite
interpretation would at certain periods have excluded scientific discoveries, in spite of the
fact that in the last analysis security of social progress depends upon them. For scientific
men would have been thought to be mere theoretical dreamers, totally lacking in social efficiency.
It must be borne in mind that ultimately social efficiency means neither more nor less than
capacity to share in a give and take of experience. It covers all that makes one's own experience
more worth while to others, and all that enables one to participate more richly in the worthwhile
experiences of others. Ability to produce and to enjoy art, capacity for recreation, the significant
utilization of leisure, are more important elements in it than elements conventionally associated
oftentimes with citizenship. In the broadest sense, social efficiency is nothing less than
that socialization of mind which is actively concerned in making experiences more communicable;
in breaking down the barriers of social stratification which make individuals impervious to
the interests of others. When social efficiency is confined to the service rendered by overt
acts, its chief constituent (because its only guarantee) is omitted,--intelligent sympathy
or good will. For sympathy as a desirable quality is something more than mere feeling; it is
a cultivated imagination for what men have in common and a rebellion at whatever unnecessarily
divides them. What is sometimes called a benevolent interest in others may be but an unwitting
mask for an attempt to dictate to them what their good shall be, instead of an endeavor to
free them so that they may seek and find the good of their own choice. Social efficiency, even
social service, are hard and metallic things when severed from an active acknowledgment of
the diversity of goods which life may afford to different persons, and from faith in the social
utility of encouraging every individual to make his own choice intelligent.

3. Culture as Aim. Whether or not social efficiency is an aim which is consistent with culture
turns upon these considerations. Culture means at least something cultivated, something ripened;
it is opposed to the raw and crude. When the "natural" is identified with this rawness, culture
is opposed to what is called natural development. Culture is also something personal; it is
cultivation with respect to appreciation of ideas and art and broad human interests. When efficiency
is identified with a narrow range of acts, instead of with the spirit and meaning of activity,
culture is opposed to efficiency. Whether called culture or complete development of personality,
the outcome is identical with the true meaning of social efficiency whenever attention is given
to what is unique in an individual--and he would not be an individual if there were not something
incommensurable about him. Its opposite is the mediocre, the average. Whenever distinctive
quality is developed, distinction of personality results, and with it greater promise for a
social service which goes beyond the supply in quantity of material commodities. For how can
there be a society really worth serving unless it is constituted of individuals of significant
personal qualities?

The fact is that the opposition of high worth of personality to social efficiency is a product
of a feudally organized society with its rigid division of inferior and superior. The latter
are supposed to have time and opportunity to develop themselves as human beings; the former
are confined to providing external products. When social efficiency as measured by product
or output is urged as an ideal in a would-be democratic society, it means that the depreciatory
estimate of the masses characteristic of an aristocratic community is accepted and carried
over. But if democracy has a moral and ideal meaning, it is that a social return be demanded
from all and that opportunity for development of distinctive capacities be afforded all. The
separation of the two aims in education is fatal to democracy; the adoption of the narrower
meaning of efficiency deprives it of its essential justification.

The aim of efficiency (like any educational aim) must be included within the process of experience.
When it is measured by tangible external products, and not by the achieving of a distinctively
valuable experience, it becomes materialistic. Results in the way of commodities which may
be the outgrowth of an efficient personality are, in the strictest sense, by-products of education:
by-products which are inevitable and important, but nevertheless by-products. To set up an
external aim strengthens by reaction the false conception of culture which identifies it with
something purely "inner." And the idea of perfecting an "inner" personality is a sure sign
of social divisions. What is called inner is simply that which does not connect with others--which
is not capable of free and full communication. What is termed spiritual culture has usually
been futile, with something rotten about it, just because it has been conceived as a thing
which a man might have internally--and therefore exclusively. What one is as a person is what
one is as associated with others, in a free give and take of intercourse. This transcends both
the efficiency which consists in supplying products to others and the culture which is an exclusive
refinement and polish.

Any individual has missed his calling, farmer, physician, teacher, student, who does not find
that the accomplishments of results of value to others is an accompaniment of a process of
experience inherently worth while. 

When, alone and with his little wife, clasped his arms, did not experience any sensation human or
divine pleasure, but the harsh shock of two bodies hard and cold. She kiss on cheeks, and found
frost. In vain your spirit, thirsting for pleasures, furiously calling to nature. Nature in
him was something of pottery. He felt his heart beat as clock machinery remained Her thoughts,
but everything else was insensitive material.

The Princess was very pleased.

"What ails you, my love? - Pacorrito asked to see his expression of grief.

- I am supremely bored, girl - said the gallant, growing in confidence.

-
Because you'll get used.

Oh delicious moments! If durárais much, can not live.

- A delicious it calls your Highness! - Crumbs said .-- My God, how cold, how hard, how empty,
how stiff!

- You still have the human remnants, and the vice sense of the ravages
of man.

Pacorrito, moderate your transports or disrupt your bad example to
all the living muñequismo.

- Life, life, blood, heat, hide! - Crumbs
cried desperately, shaking like a insane .-- What is it happen to me?

"

The Princess shook in his arms, and kissed with red wax lips, exclaimed:

"You're
mine, mine for ever and ever."

At that moment was heard much noise and many voices saying, "Time, time!"

Twelve bells greeted the entrance of the New Year.

Everything disappeared suddenly in the eyes of Pacorrito: Princess,
castle, dolls, emperors, and was left alone.

XIV

He stood alone and in deep darkness.

She wanted to scream and had no voice. Wanted to move and had no movement.

It was stone.

Full of sorrow waited. The day finally came, and then Pacorrito was seen in its old form; but all of
a color, and apparently from the same subject: face, arms, clothing,
hair and even newspaper in his hand he held.

"Since I have no doubt - he said .-- I'm crying inside it as a brick.

He saw before him was a large glass with some letters backwards. On one side crowd figurines and
objects of whimsy with him.

"I'm in the window! ... Horror! "

A young man carefully took in hand, and after wiping the dust returned to put in place.

His Serene Highness saw that on the pedestal where it was placed, was a card with this number:
240 reais.

"My God, is a treasure that I'm worth.

This will at least comforted by one.

"

And people stopped by the outside glass to see the graceful sculpture yellow bars represent a newspaper
and matches. All praised the skill the artist, everyone was laughing watching the droll face and
figure of the Crumbs Chavacano, while he, in the depths of his callous mud, never ceased to cry
out with anguish:

"Snowman, snowman, for ever and ever!"

January 1879.

June [2]

I

In the garden.

May be angry, I know, but paying homage to the truth, it should tell in his face. Yes: the rule
of the flowers in our climate, it does not.

Rogue! What will it in the next life of those poor little souls whom left died of cold after
abrasive bothersome hot flashes? Instead, in June, if ever heats them with too much heat (because
it's sharp, llanote and takes to heart its obligations) also delicately flash fan, not to the
thunderous bellow from the northern winds; be fighting to have them in warm air, and cooling houses, all
with careful pulse and measure, give them fruitful sap, exquisite light, charitable support,
fresh and transparent waters.

Look at how this capitalist squanders its treasures, heat, light, freshness and air, moisture
and light. It would seem to many wealthy land if not employed all his fortune in do well.

Here are his works.

See the thoughts, their faces yellow and velvet caps. They look to one side and to another, swaying
in the delicious morning breath and shudder of joy contemplating so beautiful, so healthy, so
freeloaders. Black little eyes of these dwarfs, which, like of the lower angels, but have
no head and wings, look at us with evil rogue, and even seem to laugh, the very crooks, when the
wind makes them nod against each other, shaking in every sense of
the vast phalanx.

Some are pale and nodes, there are blood and chubby, some will permeate the cap down over
his eyebrows, others thrown back; These look like bald, of those who spend beards would say, and everyone
is happier than a lark, and his talk certainly unknown exclaim: "Comrades, is said to live.
Good bellyful of air, light and water are giving us! "

More trials are those little girls who call minutisas, because if the company have been of these rogues,
charmers know them form groups, clusters that seem cliques, and playing at the wheel without admitting
to any attacker, understand themselves. These beautiful star land that glazed the gardens
with his purple smiling, are distant relatives of the proud carnation. Nobody would say, because they
are so modest ...!

There it is. Does nobly folds the aromatic white turban and a thousand red curls! Health to Caliph
splendid, magnificent, sovereign. The heady poetry that it encourages the sybaritic springs,
to the fiery passions. Calaverón Ah!

... This cycle is so popular that even the poor poorest being raised, even in a broken pot. It seems
that inspires dreams, like opium, congratulations impossible. Its strong aroma is like a sensual
vision.

Not so the roses, which appear in this month maturity gorgeous. The May were girls, they are ladies,
and their cupped leaves open, soft, pure, subtle, there I do not know what masterful art world.
If God would grant them a puff of life, one no more, talk sure, but you better be silent.
Infinite grace, a delicacy unique, an ideal beauty, make this flower smile of Nature. When the
roses die the world gets serious.

Far away, perched on the wall or the props of the old wall looking for solitude, looking up,
looking forward to the quiet night, is the lover, the sentimental poet, the romantic jasmine,
in a word. Pale and small, throughout his life is soul. I play, and drops stem. Lives of feeling,
love the night, and if the music were aromas, jasmine serious the nightingale.

Fix your eyes on the graceful peonies. There is certainly need glasses
to see, as are bulky and presumptuous.

They do not deserve my sympathy these emphatic ladies all spend it
in rags, and if it is beyond doubt that they are beautiful, admire
it is that before that fall in love, and beauty is more of apparent
than real.

Nothing, nothing, here's something false: these ladies are painted.

Grande and it is also colorful.

We salute the magnolia, Indian princess who has been travel and stayed
in our climate.

Good health is not the lady, but what aristocratic what is this royal Amazon! Not content
to be fragrant and delicious flower, but wants be a tree, that is, man. See how riding in the high
branch, and bold see face to face the elm, a thousand flowers to brown and eucalyptus quixotic.

On
the ground track crowd of pages and footman, wallflowers, larkspur, gentezuela fine living of
flattery, the shade of the great lords, and the biblical lily dress Always Nazarene. Honeysuckle,
sullen and melancholic nostalgia for the disturbed, look at the field against their will where
they have brought them look to all sides anxious for guidance; be dragging logs, by the railing
by the stairs until she is play with his hand clenched around, goes, going climbing, climbing,
and looks to see horizons and free space and the illusion that it is free. This flower, like many
people, not has more than hands, and are white, thin, aromatic, but even gets his thin fingers
if it were to take something, never take anything.

Step to the people! The great republic of geraniums all full.

It seems that there is enough land for these red caps that are played with wonderful ease, and
grow as the mob last as ignorance, and resist cold and soles as poverty. So that nothing is missing,
until cacti, nasty bunch of buffoons, are decorated with colorful feathers on hats, others yellow
breeches are made, and some full charge Mephistopheles dressed as students in Carnival, and
have the nerve to wear them their bellied bodies. Others thin and warty, still with his hands
in his pockets, laughing and waving around stick with scarlet tassels.

But nobody makes these cartoons grace vegetables, flowers that seem to lizards, frogs that look
like plants, and live in isolation, without society, visited only the bees, which often come to
tell you a secret hearing.

If the violets had not breathed its last aroma in May, if the hyacinths were not and in the limbo
of his young chives, if dahlias, by contrast, not sleep yet in the back of their sweet, if
the petunias were not in lactation, and bells in the early stages,
if they had not also fallen Francesillo cold tomb of the mites, and
even strangers were not cutting their multiple gauze dancer to appear
in the fall, the picture would be complete June floral.

NOTE:

[2] it was written this article in the series description of the twelve
months of the year, published by the Spanish and American Illustration
in his Almanac of 1877.

II

In the field.

A monster, a giant, a figurehead, it seems man is but a scarecrow, breaststroke and gesturing
in the countryside. Sway is the official in charge of notifying the
sparrows that the wheat has been planted for them.

Ah! sparrows, the most rogue of creation the cast of crooks and thieves are more brazen than
the earth. When they made their nests, they got into houses to steal the ladies' tailors, lint
and rags, of course, with the greatest skill, made sheets, pillows and quilts for their young.
Now, these graceful bandits roam these worlds exercising their vicious raptor wheats and vegetables.
Everything they eat, they bite everything, everything has to taste like If required to give their
views on God as breeding at this time. If only they were as poppies, although they get everywhere
do not take anything ... How beautiful wheats! It rained so to time the pin has come out strong
and stout curd grains. Already being blond, and as continued dry weather and warm (for the rain,
San John does not give away wine and bread) you can soon put the
sickle.

The farmer did not take his eyes but to look at the sky. This is the critical month, the month
of hopes, the summary of the year, the additional amount of this
long account of costs and benefits which lasts twelve months.

The farmer is happy, and hopes to pay the tax, interest loan it received from the Jewish town, buying
new tools, home repair, given away by San Juan, and even save on the bag as they piece to five
dollars for what can occur.

Weeding the wheat and chickpeas, lettuce, beans, hilling potatoes, and all spring planting.
Looks at the fruit trees, to see how curdling. Cherries abound. As to the pear, it is unclear
to what will fixed point, but this noble family, which is extremely polite and attentive, sent
in this month as a special gift, a tasty pears, which we accepted with glee. San Juan brings
them, the sponsors and gives them their name. The same saint, coming with his usual punctuality,
has brought in excellent backpack figs, and is so fine and liberal,
says that next year will bring the same thing.

The farmer sulfur vineyards, and then the arrodriga earthing up, giving
them sticks to supportive and stretched his cramped arms.

Then engages in outdoor planting carrots, chervil, chicory variety,
Savoy cabbage, kale broccoli, Malpica, parsley and other many classes
that constitute the hierarchy ensaladesca, and between which there
are excellent people join us at the table and left to eat.

It also serves as an interesting and useful task.

Called to the sheep and says: "With the heat has come, ladies, for anything you need those winter
coats. "It is admirable the crowd livestock equipment! Ram is holding a Carriker with which envanecerían
many men, others are pure white luengo Russian cloak and thick wool
.-- "Come all that and the cool, young gentlemen - added the farmer
- that you tailor your dress provident free next year, while I have
to settle for waste your clothes.

"Ring the scissors and starts the operation of rude coats, overcoats and scarves. Until the flock
lord are left without their mantles, and the lambs lose their cardigans
astrakhan.

In the yard one day the hen appears very satisfied.

There, as God gives us to understand, with their cackling sound, it tells the master who already
has twenty servants rather than serve him. And it's good urchins breed: not required to put them
wet nurse, who already know they make a living. With little body covered with hair and some
shell yet acceded to such a part, are about his mother, amazed at
all: the sky, light, air, giving Rejoice for having managed to escape
from the dark where were imprisoned egg against all justice and reason.

The ducks are a pool, feel bubbling in his mind the genius of Columbus, and wham ... water.
When they return, the hen will take a reprimand for his daring, but they are so bad servants,
who a little while back to do the same.

Large right turkeys get red ties and Monterilla, and go to the field
in droves, not meet with anyone other than the family, because these
fools are Nobleman, and walk to the beat, seriously, saying bad words
and even casting a hollow discursazos, such as certain speakers, full
of apostrophes and epifonemas, but without the slightest sense.

Back in the woods, among the black oaks and screws, a lamentable scene occurs. Thousands ladies
angry buzz and sting, to defend the fruits of his wonderful industry. Are the more skilled
and more neat manufacturers of jams, syrups and candies that are in creation, and it is pitiful
that the other rich confections with so much zeal and work so neatly
formed in long days, come to seize an uncouth porter, who with his
hands washed (or dirty) appropriates the delicious nectar.

And do not try to excuse the shameless journal saying that honey is going to do drugs, and wax candles
to the saints ... "This is not allowed subterfuge. Back crook, thief, shirtless, demagogue.
But it's all useless.

Takes, takes our crop, our welfare, our wealth. Poor sisters ruined, what will we do to regain
the lost colony? "Start another.

Beyond .... But no longer hear that persistent crack of bruised leaves,
no longer perceive the sound of the voracious teeth.

Silence! ... Industrial land, manufacturers, workers, weavers, artisans, the entire world to its
knees. The silkworm has begun its cocoon.

III

In the kitchen.

As the meadows are so palatable to cattle, the meat of this month
is the best year.

The cow and the sheep do honor to his high popularity.

There are still plenty of strawberries and cherries come entangled
in each other, because they dislike go alone, that well-known defect
of the live genius that turns her cheeks flush.

Grapes and melons are not come yet, but we are commanded Toledo tasty apricots.

Peas, radishes and artichokes are presented in the square every day, accompanied some asparagus
late asking a thousand pardons for not coming earlier.

The new chickens, which has not only served to stews, enter, and with
great civility We demand that the ASEM mushrooms.

Recommend gallantly, upon presentation, to his cousins ducks and pigeons to their wild relatives.

A
gentleman, a hero, a lord, it appears, hat in hand, pleading that a mess Once in the pan,
remembering to note that it has to be big. It Tallud and obese; waterproof wearing white and pink skin
indicates that we have at home to an English gentleman. Mr Salmon is. Adelante!

After he appears, asking fire and oil and aromatic spices, the first sole, and recaditos affectionate
bring oysters, they can not come as the months have no r, and poke some tiny turbot and pajeles.

Who else gets? Mrs. eel, which comes in embassy of the fresh water ... Adelante!
IV

In religion.

For more haste given the poor thing can not get
to day 13. Next breath, fatigue, the naked feet covered with blood
from the bites of the brambles. The road has been preaching to the
birds and fish, and therefore could not come sooner. Besides, it great
sorrow on his hands, supporting a book, and the book is a divine Child,
is the world's Redeemer. It also brings a stick of white lilies.

Your
humble Franciscan habit is full of patches, a sign of poverty. Is
your face young, pale, ardent, feverish, because it inflames devotion
and sublime, mystical I love spiritualized.

Thenthe worried and sad
the number of couples who ask and can not give and the ill success
of those who gave generously last year. Be prepared to receive median
number of applications requesting more than a few boyfriends and demands
of good girlfriends. Ay! he is so good that is willing to give, and
give if any.

Hail, holy youth, innocence, the tender love, hopes
smiling! Hail, precious ornaments of the celestial cycles, young sublime,
great soldier of Christ, apostle of humanity, love of the poor, loving
host modest dwellings! Hail embodiment of simple faith, beliefs to
which they had pure peace and comfort ages all! By putting your bare
feet in the rustic altar of the poor, it seems that stays gloomy are
filled with blue light. Pink clouds surround you, and your finest
lilies emerge aromas that captivate the soul, making known the pure
atmosphere in the house of the righteous breathing.

Receive the holy
offerings of the poor, accepts the glare of those lights oil that
pale between the streams of divine clarity you bring with you and
listens to the entreaties, to the recommendations and requests made
pure in heart. 

Some people are so wicked, so ungrateful laborers
(that I've seen), when San Antonio does not agree to the provision
of boyfriends, you turn your back on the altar, placing face to the
wall, and I know you got a girl desperately tying in well a rope around
his neck, but these exceptions do not undermine irreverent and sacrilegious
general devotion and popularity of the saint in Padua, ideal figure
of Catholicism, and one of the beings more perfect and less imitated,
while he walked in the flesh for the land.

Behind him is another
no less great. Has stopped administering the first sacrament, but
already there: just do not like to go to day 24, and not a single
year has missed usual. Receive him as to San Antonio, the host buxom
basil, a humble plant, fragrant, smelling of orchards rather than
garden fresh and very tiny. Some are as nuts, in tiestecitos size
of almonds.

Acompáñanle heralds some donuts called Aunt Javiera,
and his step, floor is paved with donuts. White leaves of the tree
of Paradise embalm the atmosphere around him. All season flowers come
to light its pretty funny people groups are called classes. Matas
decorate various houses, and altars seem to turn green and covered
with vegetation.
To be vague and uncertain as to what is intended and careless in observation of conditions
of its realization is to be, in that degree, stupid or partially intelligent.

If we recur to the case where mind is not concerned with the physical manipulation of the instruments
but with what one intends to write, the case is the same. There is an activity in process;
one is taken up with the development of a theme. Unless one writes as a phonograph talks, this
means intelligence; namely, alertness in foreseeing the various conclusions to which present
data and considerations are tending, together with continually renewed observation and recollection
to get hold of the subject matter which bears upon the conclusions to be reached. The whole
attitude is one of concern with what is to be, and with what is so far as the latter enters
into the movement toward the end. Leave out the direction which depends upon foresight of possible
future results, and there is no intelligence in present behavior. Let there be imaginative
forecast but no attention to the conditions upon which its attainment depends, and there is
self-deception or idle dreaming--abortive intelligence.

If this illustration is typical, mind is not a name for something complete by itself; it is
a name for a course of action in so far as that is intelligently directed; in so far, that
is to say, as aims, ends, enter into it, with selection of means to further the attainment
of aims. Intelligence is not a peculiar possession which a person owns; but a person is intelligent
in so far as the activities in which he plays a part have the qualities mentioned. Nor are
the activities in which a person engages, whether intelligently or not, exclusive properties
of himself; they are something in which he engages and partakes. Other things, the independent
changes of other things and persons, cooperate and hinder. The individual's act may be initial
in a course of events, but the outcome depends upon the interaction of his response with energies
supplied by other agencies. Conceive mind as anything but one factor partaking along with others
in the production of consequences, and it becomes meaningless.

The problem of instruction is thus that of finding material which will engage a person in specific
activities having an aim or purpose of moment or interest to him, and dealing with things not
as gymnastic appliances but as conditions for the attainment of ends. The remedy for the evils
attending the doctrine of formal discipline previously spoken of, is not to be found by substituting
a doctrine of specialized disciplines, but by reforming the notion of mind and its training.
Discovery of typical modes of activity, whether play or useful occupations, in which individuals
are concerned, in whose outcome they recognize they have something at stake, and which cannot
be carried through without reflection and use of judgment to select material of observation
and recollection, is the remedy. In short, the root of the error long prevalent in the conception
of training of mind consists in leaving out of account movements of things to future results
in which an individual shares, and in the direction of which observation, imagination, and
memory are enlisted. It consists in regarding mind as complete in itself, ready to be directly
applied to a present material.

In historic practice the error has cut two ways. On one hand, it has screened and protected
traditional studies and methods of teaching from intelligent criticism and needed revisions.
To say that they are "disciplinary" has safeguarded them from all inquiry. It has not been
enough to show that they were of no use in life or that they did not really contribute to the
cultivation of the self. That they were "disciplinary" stifled every question, subdued every
doubt, and removed the subject from the realm of rational discussion. By its nature, the allegation
could not be checked up. Even when discipline did not accrue as matter of fact, when the pupil
even grew in laxity of application and lost power of intelligent self-direction, the fault
lay with him, not with the study or the methods of teaching. His failure was but proof that
he needed more discipline, and thus afforded a reason for retaining the old methods. The responsibility
was transferred from the educator to the pupil because the material did not have to meet specific
tests; it did not have to be shown that it fulfilled any particular need or served any specific
end. It was designed to discipline in general, and if it failed, it was because the individual
was unwilling to be disciplined. In the other direction, the tendency was towards a negative
conception of discipline, instead of an identification of it with growth in constructive power
of achievement. As we have already seen, will means an attitude toward the future, toward the
production of possible consequences, an attitude involving effort to foresee clearly and comprehensively
the probable results of ways of acting, and an active identification with some anticipated
consequences. Identification of will, or effort, with mere strain, results when a mind is set
up, endowed with powers that are only to be applied to existing material. A person just either
will or will not apply himself to the matter in hand. The more indifferent the subject matter,
the less concern it has for the habits and preferences of the individual, the more demand there
is for an effort to bring the mind to bear upon it--and hence the more discipline of will.
To attend to material because there is something to be done in which the person is concerned
is not disciplinary in this view; not even if it results in a desirable increase of constructive
power. Application just for the sake of application, for the sake of training, is alone disciplinary.
This is more likely to occur if the subject matter presented is uncongenial, for then there
is no motive (so it is supposed) except the acknowledgment of duty or the value of discipline.
The logical result is expressed with literal truth in the words of an American humorist: "It
makes no difference what you teach a boy so long as he doesn't like it."

The counterpart of the isolation of mind from activities dealing with objects to accomplish
ends is isolation of the subject matter to be learned. In the traditional schemes of education,
subject matter means so much material to be studied. Various branches of study represent so
many independent branches, each having its principles of arrangement complete within itself.
History is one such group of facts; algebra another; geography another, and so on till we have
run through the entire curriculum. Having a ready-made existence on their own account, their
relation to mind is exhausted in what they furnish it to acquire. This idea corresponds to
the conventional practice in which the program of school work, for the day, month, and successive
years, consists of "studies" all marked off from one another, and each supposed to be complete
by itself--for educational purposes at least.

Later on a chapter is devoted to the special consideration of the meaning of the subject matter
of instruction. At this point, we need only to say that, in contrast with the traditional theory,
anything which intelligence studies represents things in the part which they play in the carrying
forward of active lines of interest. Just as one "studies" his typewriter as part of the operation
of putting it to use to effect results, so with any fact or truth. It becomes an object of
study--that is, of inquiry and reflection--when it figures as a factor to be reckoned with
in the completion of a course of events in which one is engaged and by whose outcome one is
affected. Numbers are not objects of study just because they are numbers already constituting
a branch of learning called mathematics, but because they represent qualities and relations
of the world in which our action goes on, because they are factors upon which the accomplishment
of our purposes depends. Stated thus broadly, the formula may appear abstract. Translated into
details, it means that the act of learning or studying is artificial and ineffective in the
degree in which pupils are merely presented with a lesson to be learned. Study is effectual
in the degree in which the pupil realizes the place of the numerical truth he is dealing with
in carrying to fruition activities in which he is concerned. This connection of an object and
a topic with the promotion of an activity having a purpose is the first and the last word of
a genuine theory of interest in education.

3. Some Social Aspects of the Question. While the theoretical errors of which we have been
speaking have their expressions in the conduct of schools, they are themselves the outcome
of conditions of social life. A change confined to the theoretical conviction of educators
will not remove the difficulties, though it should render more effective efforts to modify
social conditions. Men's fundamental attitudes toward the world are fixed by the scope and
qualities of the activities in which they partake. The ideal of interest is exemplified in
the artistic attitude. Art is neither merely internal nor merely external; merely mental nor
merely physical. Like every mode of action, it brings about changes in the world. The changes
made by some actions (those which by contrast may be called mechanical) are external; they
are shifting things about. No ideal reward, no enrichment of emotion and intellect, accompanies
them. Others contribute to the maintenance of life, and to its external adornment and display.
Many of our existing social activities, industrial and political, fall in these two classes.
Neither the people who engage in them, nor those who are directly affected by them, are capable
of full and free interest in their work. Because of the lack of any purpose in the work for
the one doing it, or because of the restricted character of its aim, intelligence is not adequately
engaged. The same conditions force many people back upon themselves. They take refuge in an
inner play of sentiment and fancies. They are aesthetic but not artistic, since their feelings
and ideas are turned upon themselves, instead of being methods in acts which modify conditions.
Their mental life is sentimental; an enjoyment of an inner landscape. Even the pursuit of science
may become an asylum of refuge from the hard conditions of life--not a temporary retreat for
the sake of recuperation and clarification in future dealings with the world. The very word
art may become associated not with specific transformation of things, making them more significant
for mind, but with stimulations of eccentric fancy and with emotional indulgences. The separation
and mutual contempt of the "practical" man and the man of theory or culture, the divorce of
fine and industrial arts, are indications of this situation. Thus interest and mind are either
narrowed, or else made perverse. Compare what was said in an earlier chapter about the one-sided
meanings which have come to attach to the ideas of efficiency and of culture.

This state of affairs must exist so far as society is organized on a basis of division between
laboring classes and leisure classes. The intelligence of those who do things becomes hard
in the unremitting struggle with things; that of those freed from the discipline of occupation
becomes luxurious and effeminate. Moreover, the majority of human beings still lack economic
freedom. Their pursuits are fixed by accident and necessity of circumstance; they are not the
normal expression of their own powers interacting with the needs and resources of the environment. Sit here, while you're getting dinner. Will you be hungry, right? He eats
very badly for these roads. Pepa, Pepa! Put the candle here, close enough to come see me right
the master of the house.

Tia Carmen came over the table, which, in a brass candlestick, burned with a red light tallow
candle. As I saw at will, insisted impatiently

Obedeciéronla. I sat by his side. Andrew and Aunt Pepa were standing in front of us. From the
door that opened into the inner rooms, she saw us. She was tall and slender, dressed in white,
and I thought of singular beauty.

The patient wiping her tears.

It was always stern and severe, never flattered, never had a sweet and gentle words. The disease
had broken that whole character, iron, as a piece. Now he had tenderness and delicacy that moved
deeply.

- Ah, now you see my taste! Jesus! How handsome you are! Look, Pepa, look: you already have
mustache! Enterito his grandfather!

His voice was weak and dull. As if the thought of leave to fly to the regions Ultra-grave, he
remained silent the old, fixed on the ground the look. After a while continued, smiling painfully,
with the smile of the elderly come to die:

- How do I find it, son? "Evil, right? Remember? Before so strong,
so active!

Was me at all! Now, here I am, as prey, as if crickets ... Worse
than if had!

Here I am, stuck in the butaque, unable to take a step, without being able to help your aunt.
The poor thing, you do not stop! And I in no way relieves you work, before, on the contrary, I
give pursuit.

These nerves, son!

Don Pancho Sarmiento, (very good to us, if scallops!) said that all I have is a thing of nerves.
Nerves, nerves, and this is that to me, my forces are more and more every day! ...

When he said this made me a sign of intelligence, as indicating that the cheating, which she
did not think anything of what he said about his illness.

- That you're getting a dinner. While talk of something else.

To sad things, time will be.

I tried to reassure her.

I told him a thousand cases of nervous diseases that looked like grave evils, and that with
time and care had gone, leaving patients good and healthy.

He seemed satisfied and turned to me and said smiling:

- I've walked a lot. You'll see this very sad. 'll Be right, son, no one moves here; all live as
tired as overwhelmed with annoyance.

You went well in your exams, and what know!

Ricky Tejeda told us the night we came to visit. The poor man wants you much. He told us you were
very scared.

We pray for you, Pepa went to Mass that day, and I lit a lamp to
San Luisito, your San Luisito, so you take out safely.

And tell me, what gave you the money you send for the suit? We know that yes, but you I wonder whether
you got it in time.

- Yes, and certainly I felt much you make that sacrifice ....

- Oh boy! Have you come to the slaughter, as in all your letters? What sacrifice!

- No, aunt, but ....

- You had to be presented well. Fortunately in those days got a little money, that of home.
Do you know that we sold?

- Yes, - I said - I think I wrote it.

- You say: I was already so old! Replenish it had spent more.

I realized that trying to trick me, make me believe that they lived comfortably.

- Look, Pepa: he put to this dinner. He eats so bad for those roads! ...

My aunt, she and Andrew were removed to the dining room. Soon they call me. The young man came
saying

- Even though it is dinner ....

I stroked my poor aunt, and went to where I expected. The good Lord would treat a king, and yet
so modest dining and so sad!

III

I closed the door, put down the bright candle, and blow extinguished the candle.

Elbows on the sill I began to contemplate the sky. The autumn winds had spread in a few minutes
black cloud cover, uniformly dark, and only a sparse and subtle point, to the East, where through
white veils left guessing the higher regions of ether, the upper
ocean air, clean, lined by thousands celajes flying.

Could hear the distant sound of rain. Garden plants swaying rustling. Oleander swinging their
flexible stems, the swaying in the dark floripondio their bells satin, and the splendid glass
of orange the first drops, thick and resonant, fell with extraordinary momentum, the forerunners
of a long rain.

I was in the house of my own. But alas! how sad it appeared before my eyes. It was not that house
bright and cheerful little house where I was born, that held my children and I saw out from there in
tears. The house of my parents was foreign! Who lived there? Perhaps who was not able to love
and to estimate its beauties. My parents died there, leaving in the cradle, where the grandfather
slept peacefully in the Lord, there ran my life joyful and Ventura. Which sentence that would
leave my aunts house, center of all their affections, reliquary of the sweetest memories! I
imagined, and my eyes filled with tears. Well seen I was alone, the good old soon undertaken the
eternal journey and left me I would in a world that caused me fear.

The rain intensified. Distant thunder, lightning flashing from distant light, announcing that
invaded the mountain storm. The water fell in torrents. In the orange fluttering birds, frightened
to feel flooded their nests.

A moth grazed his forehead.

I lit the candle and closed the window. There was my bed as a child: the iron bed its white
curtains, and for which I had longed so often in the cold and desolate
college dormitory.

There was the washstand fitted throughout, with its woven towel Aunt Pepa. Beside the bed,
above the desk, the square of San Luis Gonzaga. Ahead on the bureau, the portrait of grandfather.
On one side of a shelf full of books, and close the window school's desk, black student desk,
child loving companion, confidant their bitterness, almost witnessed their triumphs, their hopes
silent depository. There was discrete hand placed Aunt studied my first books, carefully preserved
in the family, from the Catechism of Ripalda and Fleury, to the Grammar
of Iriarte, that stuffed with bad grammar verses, handed me Don Basilio,
the eternal mayor Villaverde, an unforgettable night, the night of
the distribution of prizes.

I opened the books. Although his guards kept in the caricature of the teacher, Don Roman Lopez
the pomposísimo Cicero, as we called him because he never spoke of without the application of
Tusculum pompous epithet, and still legible notes, meanings of unusual voices, used only of this
or that poet, lists of classmates sentenced to be detained two or three hours, have no right
to not know what difficulties Horace.

Happy times! How to vary things! Where are the joys of that time? Where the child rejoicing?
Where were the illusions are pink, the butterflies of childhood? Now everything has changed: there
are no dreams for the soul, the forehead, before dreamer already
has the pallor of the first pain, and tried the bitterness of life,
and I know their accents remain on the lips forever.

In one of the books, to open at random, my eyes stumbled upon a woman's name: Matilde! Thus,
between two exclamation, a cry of joy, as the sweetest expression of hope, as an admission
of affection smothered in the chest, one day we miss irresistible and reveals to the student
mischief, cruel and harsh to the indiscretion of his fellow students,
a woman of that name is in our heart an altar, where it is worshiped
and tributes; where only queen, lady of all pure affection, the owner
of all thoughts, sovereign our agency.

     And I thought a girl looked pale, blond, slender and graceful, with
large violet eyes, a girl whose face became angelic beauty of heaven,
which gracefully adorned with rich blue dress, short skirt, revealing
a very short feet, happened and fled, and was going to get lost in
the shadow cast on the wall the white couch: the object of my sweet
girl's first love, that love first embalmed with the aroma of lilies
the longest life, all existence.

I could not resist and took it to my lips that book, that page, not like that name repeat, but rings
in my ears like heavenly melody, which is engraved in my heart; not
depart from my mind, that for me expresses everything that is sweet
and pure and holy here on earth.

Do not forget or you forget, perhaps because as a child I wrote many times, every hour, everywhere,
in books, in notebooks, on any paper that I had about where in my hands had a pencil or pen. Name on
the sands of the shore, in bark of trees, in the blue vault studded night, traced with the
thought, and on a schedule, from star to star, to see spread throughout
the boundless space, divine radiating canopy.

How I laugh now, when you copy these pages, my romanticism of the time! How I mock love those abductions,
those quixotic bliss! But alas! I do not do with impunity; I wound in the chest, I tear the heart as
if I dragged myself on him a beam spines. And yet, that was madness, a delirium of a madman.
That life is always given to dream and always wave at the playground
of the imagination, fed and nourished with saucers La Martine, was
diverted, perhaps pernicious, but alas! so beautiful that every hour,
is yours seemed to me like the song of a poem whose sublime sublime
delicacy and sets it off of this miserable life on earth and lead
us to live in an ideal world, I look like a symphony numbing, something
like the music of the great masters, as well as Mozart, Beethoven
or Wagner, which removes us from the painful and mundane material
life and makes us happy few hours, killing us all pain, all nuisance.

Fatigue had rendered me, spoiling the care the ill-fated trip had
bruised me from head to foot, and began to feel faint precursor of
sleep.

In the seventeen years always sleep well. Neither domestic nor sadness fortunes faded memories
of us lose sleep. The bed Albe in a corner, watched the love around me, and the rain with steady
noise arrullaría me sweetly. To bed! A breath .... Pfff! Now, as Becquer said:

A sleep and snoring as choristers.

IV

I do not know what time I woke up. Know the place where I was, I turned and went across sleeping
until eight o'clock. They would not, of course, I woke up, so I retaliate desmañanadas of the
College.

- To sleep until you want! - Say the good ladies will be Fed .-- up early in ten years in prison.

The
light filtering through the cracks of the roof and cracks in the window, happy and merry made
me leave the bed.

Rang out the broom sweeper singer intelligent singing birds and hens cackling. A raucous crow launched
from time to time, Sultan his arrogant edge.

I sensed a beautiful day, one of those unforgettable days overlooking
the lively children's souls good humor, one of those days "invites
to shake off the yoke school to go through the fields to lie under
the poplars by the river, it is whispering waves near the rocks covered
Moss, away from the domino irrascible sallow and away from the songs
of Iriarte, discussions Forum Catilin. and terrifying, the most beautiful
day for salting.

I forgot my age, I figured I was seven, persuaded me that, and I said

- What is today, I have breakfast, and left the pomposísimo Don Roman with his odes and his
Eclogues. Back is the avenge! Now .... The hill of Christ, to the pastures of the brush, cut
guavas Sabanillas embroidering on the banks of Stony!

Having said and done, standing. Soon I was ready. Do not attempt to change costumes, and got
the very dusting the night before, I smelled that smell the ways of the central plateau, to
dryness and barren land. When I walked into the dining room - how high! - A piece of six square yards,
Aunt Pepa, very cheerful and talkative, I wanted to sit at the table.

-
By God, Rorra!

Want to give me a fit! It's nine, and here I am, without trying bite, waiting for the knight,
while he sleeps like a marquis. Carmen has not slept all night, thinking
of you, very glad that I saw.

Has your aunt a few things!

He says he soon will bundle the mat, which already came and that,
perhaps, that God expects nothing take it.

That happens every day, always upset you with sadness, always making
us mourn!

But go! all this and who think breakfast .... Lady Jane: here we are!

The Chocolatito! You will take coffee with milk, eh? You guys ya do not like chocolate, say it
is antique. Yo, son, like your grandfather, chocolate and nothing else good chocolate though. Look,
Rorra: a yes I can not get used, chocolate bad. Do you eat something? Say it, boy, that's why
you are at home. Juana: to see what Rodolfo makes you .... Chiquer the child should be! ...

The
good of my aunt would not let me talk. Tongue loose, lively, witty, it was difficult to cut
Once the thread was beginning to speak.

No well ordered lunch, he went

- Do you know who is with us a young girl? Do not you saw last night?

- I think so ....

- Very good! Very good! How a loaf of glory! And
loves you very much .... Looks like you met since you were well. Do
you remember how naughty? Do you remember when you broke the game
your aunt Carmen coffee? I think you see: you went to hide in the
cellar. From there you we take for you to come and eat, and came pale
and tearful. You say! For a few pots whatever .... They were from
China, and very nice, but what mattered. Still remember them your
aunt! Why do you blush? Go, son! Are you still afraid that you punish
your godmother?

Indeed, the memory of that prank I pulled the face
colors. It was a beautiful coffee service, legitimate source chinoiserie,
which my grandfather bought in Pacific port, aboard an English ship
returning from the Celestial Empire. It was the charm of the house.
One day, playing ball, chas! was shattered.

- Well, as I was I saying,
- said my aunt, - is very good girl ... and he loves you much. The
last shirts we sent the she did, and how carefully!

- Tell me, Aunt,
who is this girl?

- I will tell you! - And interrupted, shouted:

-
Angelina! Angelina! Come here!

He continued, addressing me:

- It
is with Carmen. If you saw: it is very good at all, very industrious,
or, as you say, Mrs. Juana, very woman! It is the joy of the house.
It seems a little bird is singing all the time. We have a love, a
love ... that .... If you say you look like family! I care Carmen!
It is very lively, very wise, and writes that it is one, loved it!
You know the lyrics, she write when I'm with migraine. The poor thing
was very unfortunate. God give you a good husband! ...

- Well ...
ask him to San Antonio.

- He deserves it, son, you deserve it.

-
I have a boyfriend, I suppose, Aunt Pepa? Or at least, his infatuation
....

- What? We get so thoroughly used to
a kind of pseudo-idea, a half perception, that we are not aware how half-dead our mental action
is, and how much keener and more extensive our observations and ideas would be if we formed
them under conditions of a vital experience which required us to use judgment: to hunt for
the connections of the thing dealt with. There is no difference of opinion as to the theory
of the matter. All authorities agree that that discernment of relationships is the genuinely
intellectual matter; hence, the educative matter. The failure arises in supposing that relationships
can become perceptible without experience--without that conjoint trying and undergoing of which
we have spoken. It is assumed that "mind" can grasp them if it will only give attention, and
that this attention may be given at will irrespective of the situation. Hence the deluge of
half-observations, of verbal ideas, and unassimilated "knowledge" which afflicts the world.
An ounce of experience is better than a ton of theory simply because it is only in experience
that any theory has vital and verifiable significance. An experience, a very humble experience,
is capable of generating and carrying any amount of theory (or intellectual content), but a
theory apart from an experience cannot be definitely grasped even as theory. It tends to become
a mere verbal formula, a set of catchwords used to render thinking, or genuine theorizing,
unnecessary and impossible. Because of our education we use words, thinking they are ideas,
to dispose of questions, the disposal being in reality simply such an obscuring of perception
as prevents us from seeing any longer the difficulty.

2. Reflection in Experience. Thought or reflection, as we have already seen virtually if not
explicitly, is the discernment of the relation between what we try to do and what happens in
consequence. No experience having a meaning is possible without some element of thought. But
we may contrast two types of experience according to the proportion of reflection found in
them. All our experiences have a phase of "cut and try" in them--what psychologists call the
method of trial and error. We simply do something, and when it fails, we do something else,
and keep on trying till we hit upon something which works, and then we adopt that method as
a rule of thumb measure in subsequent procedure. Some experiences have very little else in
them than this hit and miss or succeed process. We see that a certain way of acting and a certain
consequence are connected, but we do not see how they are. We do not see the details of the
connection; the links are missing. Our discernment is very gross. In other cases we push our
observation farther. We analyze to see just what lies between so as to bind together cause
and effect, activity and consequence. This extension of our insight makes foresight more accurate
and comprehensive. The action which rests simply upon the trial and error method is at the
mercy of circumstances; they may change so that the act performed does not operate in the way
it was expected to. But if we know in detail upon what the result depends, we can look to see
whether the required conditions are there. The method extends our practical control. For if
some of the conditions are missing, we may, if we know what the needed antecedents for an effect
are, set to work to supply them; or, if they are such as to produce undesirable effects as
well, we may eliminate some of the superfluous causes and economize effort.

In discovery of the detailed connections of our activities and what happens in consequence,
the thought implied in cut and try experience is made explicit. Its quantity increases so that
its proportionate value is very different. Hence the quality of the experience changes; the
change is so significant that we may call this type of experience reflective--that is, reflective
par excellence. The deliberate cultivation of this phase of thought constitutes thinking as
a distinctive experience. Thinking, in other words, is the intentional endeavor to discover
specific connections between something which we do and the consequences which result, so that
the two become continuous. Their isolation, and consequently their purely arbitrary going together,
is canceled; a unified developing situation takes its place. The occurrence is now understood;
it is explained; it is reasonable, as we say, that the thing should happen as it does.

Thinking is thus equivalent to an explicit rendering of the intelligent element in our experience.
It makes it possible to act with an end in view. It is the condition of our having aims. As
soon as an infant begins to expect he begins to use something which is now going on as a sign
of something to follow; he is, in however simple a fashion, judging. For he takes one thing
as evidence of something else, and so recognizes a relationship. Any future development, however
elaborate it may be, is only an extending and a refining of this simple act of inference. All
that the wisest man can do is to observe what is going on more widely and more minutely and
then select more carefully from what is noted just those factors which point to something to
happen. The opposites, once more, to thoughtful action are routine and capricious behavior.
The former accepts what has been customary as a full measure of possibility and omits to take
into account the connections of the particular things done. The latter makes the momentary
act a measure of value, and ignores the connections of our personal action with the energies
of the environment. It says, virtually, "things are to be just as I happen to like them at
this instant," as routine says in effect "let things continue just as I have found them in
the past." Both refuse to acknowledge responsibility for the future consequences which flow
from present action. Reflection is the acceptance of such responsibility.

The starting point of any process of thinking is something going on, something which just as
it stands is incomplete or unfulfilled. Its point, its meaning lies literally in what it is
going to be, in how it is going to turn out. As this is written, the world is filled with the
clang of contending armies. For an active participant in the war, it is clear that the momentous
thing is the issue, the future consequences, of this and that happening. He is identified,
for the time at least, with the issue; his fate hangs upon the course things are taking. But
even for an onlooker in a neutral country, the significance of every move made, of every advance
here and retreat there, lies in what it portends. To think upon the news as it comes to us
is to attempt to see what is indicated as probable or possible regarding an outcome. To fill
our heads, like a scrapbook, with this and that item as a finished and done-for thing, is not
to think. It is to turn ourselves into a piece of registering apparatus. To consider the bearing
of the occurrence upon what may be, but is not yet, is to think. Nor will the reflective experience
be different in kind if we substitute distance in time for separation in space. Imagine the
war done with, and a future historian giving an account of it. The episode is, by assumption,
past. But he cannot give a thoughtful account of the war save as he preserves the time sequence;
the meaning of each occurrence, as he deals with it, lies in what was future for it, though
not for the historian. To take it by itself as a complete existence is to take it unreflectively.
Reflection also implies concern with the issue--a certain sympathetic identification of our
own destiny, if only dramatic, with the outcome of the course of events. For the general in
the war, or a common soldier, or a citizen of one of the contending nations, the stimulus to
thinking is direct and urgent. The greatest talents are always exposed to this danger who strive
to explain a phenomenon, lack of positive data on its nature and origin. An effect may have
come from a myriad of causes, but not found Just knowing the truth that was able to proceed,
you must demonstrate that it has proceeded. If I hypothesis satisfactorily explains a phenomenon
I have in sight, I can admire it wit who invented it, but soon I shall advance to the knowledge
of the reality of things.

This habit of giving effect to a possible cause, saving the distance from the possibility to reality,
is more common than you think, especially when the reasoner can draw on the coexistence or succession
of events that aims to link. Sometimes, even awaiting to know if the fact that there really is
designated cause, enough to have been exist, and that its existence could have the effect
of which is intended to reason.

It has been found at the bottom of a cliff, the body of an acquaintance, the signals of the victim clearly
expressed that died falling down. Three assumptions can excogitating to account for the catastrophe,
a fall, a suicide, a murder. In all these cases, the effect is the same, and in the absence
of data can not be said to explain a more successfully than the other. Many viewers are watching
the disastrous scene; All are eager to discover the cause, cause that is present the slightest
hint, of course you will see born in abundance conjecture, and you will hear the expressions "is
true, so be it can not be otherwise .... as if he were watching ... no witnesses, can not
be proved at trial, but it is certainly not it.

"

And what are the signs? Some hours before finding the body, the unhappy was heading towards the
fatal spot, and there are some who saw I was reading some papers, which stopped from time to
time, and showed signs of restlessness. For the rest is well known that the latter days had
past troubles, and businesses from home were very badly. All neighborhood saw in his face signs
of grief and uneasiness. Case closed, this man has committed suicide. Murder can not be, I was so
close to home .... also that a murder not committed in this way .... A calamity is impossible,
because he knew very well the ground; and on the other hand, was not precipitated nor men who walked
with his eyes distracted.

As the poor man was harassed by his creditors, mail today due to receive a letter pressing
and there will be more able to resist.

- Come on, come on, answer
as many, something clear and has V. reason, is now fully Mail day
....

Comes the judge and the effect of instructing the first steps,
the full portfolio of the deceased.

- Two letters.

- Did not I tell
you ?.... the mail today !....

- The one is N. its correspondent
in the plaza N.

- Come, overall there had his trouble.

- Says: "Sir,
at this point I just got out of the proverbial reunion.

No missing remittent, but ultimately supported the NN friends, I
got everyone entered in reason.

For now you can V. live in peace, and if your son V. I had the good
fortune to restore therefore any American business, these people will
be provided to all, and keep V. his fortune and credit.

The details for the email immediately, but I believed that it should
not differ a moment to tell V. as satisfying news.

Meanwhile, etc., Etc. "There is no reason Why kill yourself.

- The
other ?....

- It is your son ....

- Bad news must bring ....

-
Says: "My dear father, I have come to time, and a few hours of my
landing was broken trap.

It was all a scam N. It has cruelly mocked our confidence.

I did not dream in my coming and seeing me at home, has remained as if struck by lightning. I
have known his agitation, and I seized all correspondence. While I was of this has taken the
base, and ignores its whereabouts. Everything is saved except some embezzlement, I calculate of
little consideration. I run, because the boat is going to be coming to the sailing. " etc. etc.

Today's
mail was not to commit suicide, that of the guesswork out lucid, especially for having become
the possibility into reality, having to lie in assumptions free, having been deluded with sort
of a satisfactory explanation.

- If you could be a murder ?....

-
It is clear, because in this post .... and besides, this man was not
without enemies.

- The other day his settler N. threatened him terribly.

-
It is very bad .....

- Oh! terrible .... life has been accustomed
to shoulder .... come on, has frightened the neighborhood ....

-
And how were they now?

- To kill this morning went out together in
the deceased's house and spoke both very tough.

- And the settlers
used to walk here?

- Always, to two steps has a field, and also the
question was (but this is the among us), the question was about those
oaks from the brink.

The owner complained that he spoiled the forest, the other refused,
as in this same place were the other day to be a clubbing peak.

Look Vds.

... but one must not lose to an unhappy .... almost every day were
in quarrels in the same place.

- Then did not speak V. more ....
is an atrocity! test but how ?....

- And today Vds. seen as not working
in the field, and its implement is there .... and is known who has
worked today ..... We no longer doubt it is evident, the unhappy is
lost, because it will breathe .....

Then one of the people.

- What
a disgrace!

- Do not you know?

- No sir, now I have this at home.

I went to see him, if appeased with poor N. being held in the hall ...

- Prisoner ?....

- Yes folks, I've been crying, his wife says that word has been exceeded, and that the mayor has
been arrested. As you know it's so bully Vds. !....

- What has come over the camp since he spoke this morning with the deceased in the street?

- How then had to leave?

Vds. and you will find there, which is very early; The poor guy was
plowing there !....

New disappointment, the murderer was at long
distance, the prisoner was the settler, new disappointment assumptions
to be wary of free, not to confuse reality with the possibility and
not freak out with plausible appearances.

§ VII.

Concern for doctrine.

Behold one of the most precious sources of error, that is the real
drag of science, one of the biggest obstacles to slow their progress.

Incredible serious influence of prejudice, if the history of the human spirit not testify with
indisputable facts.

The man dominated by a concern not seek or books or things that really there, but what is best to
support their views.

And most significant is that it carries in this way, sometimes with
the utmost good faith, believing without a shadow of doubt that he
is working for the sake of truth.

Education, teachers and authors who have received At first light on science, people with whom we
live continually, or try more often, the state or profession, and other similar circumstances,
contribute to engender in us the habit of looking at things all have
the same appearance, see always in the same way.

Hardly had we took the first steps in the career of a science, we
offered certain axioms as eternal truth, we had certain propositions
as supported by demonstrations irrefutable, and the reasons that were
active on the other hand, never made us consider as evidence to consider,
but as objections to release.

Was there one of our reasons to waver on one side? of course they resorted to sustain, say
that in any case that was not the only, who was accompanied by other
dutifully satisfactory and that but it alone might not suffice, however
added to the other did not stop in spite tipping the balance and more
and more in our favor.

Do the opponents have difficulty of spiny solution?

The number of responses made up for its solidity. The most serious author A answered in this
way, the famous B-so, the wise C-so, either three is enough, choose
the best sound, with complete certainty that the Achilles adversaries
have received the wound in the tendon.

This is not to convince, but to win; self-esteem is interested in
the race, and known are the infinite resources of this evil agent.

Favoring bulges and exaggerates, what prejudice is diminished, defaced Toggle: good faith protest
sometimes from the depths of the soul, but her voice is drowned and
silenced as a word of peace in fierce combat.

If not, how is it possible to explain that for many centuries, schools
have seen as organized, and disciplined armies grouped around a flag?

How that a number of illustrious for his learning and virtues, they
saw all a question of a Similarly, while his opponents no less enlightened
than them, they saw everything opposite way?

How is it to know what were the views of one author, not necesitásemos
read, common enough in what the order to which he belonged, or the
school where he had gone?

Could it be ignorance of the matter, when consumed his life in studying it? Could it be that
not read the works of their opponents? This is verified in many, but others can not be doubt
that consult regularly. Could be bad faith? Certainly not because
they were distinguished by Christian fortitude.

The causes are those listed above, the man before inducing others into error, he deceives many
times to himself. It clings to a system, there is every reason to castellated which might
favor, his mood is going to overheating as it is under attack, until the Finally, whatever the
number and strength of opponents, seems to be saying to himself: "This is your place, it must
defend: is better to die with glory than live in disgrace cowardice. "

For this reason, when trying to convince others, we must carefully separate the Because the truth
of the cause of self: mind on how to persuade the opponent that giving, nothing lost in reputation.
No ataqueis never clearly and insight talent, otherwise the battle will be formalized, the fight
will be close, and even holding him under your feet and the sword in the throat, not to confess
recabaréis up.

There are certain words of courtesy and deference at all to address the truth, in hesitating
the adversary should not save, if you want to give her things gone before have come to nasty ends [14].

CHAPTER
XV.

Reasoning.

§ I.

The worth of principles and rules of dialectics.

When the authors treated in this operation of understanding, to pile up a lot of rules direct, support
in some axioms. Not dispute the truth of these, but I doubt much to the usefulness of those
is much as has been claimed. In effect, it is undeniable things that are identified with a
third identify themselves, that is two identify with each other, if one is other than a third,
so shall also the other, that is affirmed or denied of a whole genus or species, must be affirmed or
denied the individual content in them, and also is also very true that the rules of argumentation
based on these principles are infallible. But I have difficulty in the application, and I can
not convince they are of great use in practice.

First, admit that these rules help to give some precision to the understanding
which may serve in some cases to design more clearly, and attend to
the defects involving a speech well that sometimes this advantage
is offset to the disadvantages carried by the assumption that reasoning
is known, because no rules are ignored reasoning.

Can one really knowing the rules of an art, and not succeeding to implement them. Just recite all
the rules of rhetoric without a word wrong, which I can not write a page without crashing,
I will not say to the precepts of art, but with good sense.

§ II.

The syllogism. Comments on this instrument dialectical.

We will train full concept of the utility of such rules, if we consider that whoever reasoning
do not remember, if you are not compelled to make an argument to the scholastic manner, something
which has now fallen into disuse.

Students learn to know whether this or that syllogism sins against this or that rule, and this
is done in such simple examples, that when you leave school never find anything that seems
to them. "Every virtue is laudable, justice is a virtue, then it
is laudable.

"Very well: but when I offered to discern whether this or which act
has been violated justice and the law has something to punish, if
I intend to investigate what is justice, analyzing the high principles
that underlies, and utilities their empire leads the individual and
to society, what good will that example, or other similar?

Theologians and jurists, I want to tell me if they have served their
speeches greatly unsettled rules.

"Everything is metal ore, gold is metal, then is mineral." "No animal is immune, the Fish are
animals, then they are not insensitive. "" Pedro is guilty, this man is Peter, then this man
is guilty. "" This is not an ounce of gold due weight, this is what Juan ounce has given me
an ounce after that John was not given due weight. "These examples and others by the same token,
are often found in works of logic that provides rules for syllogisms, and I do not reach what
they can bring to the speech of students.

The difficulty in reasoning is not removed with these frivolities but themselves for losing time
in school to teach.

When the discourse moves from the examples to the not really find anything like it, and then either
completely forgets the rules, or after having tested the applied continuously, soon tired of
the mundane and useless task. Sugeto true, well known mine, had taken the trouble to examine all
speeches by the light of dialectical rules I do not know if today still retain this pilgrim
humor, while I saw no occasion to treat it to reach great results.

Consider some of these examples, and compare them with practice.

This means to the membership of an estate.

All goods that were within the N should go to the M, but the long time elapsed and other circumstances
make that prompt a lawsuit over the meek B, that the latter is in possession, based on that
their rights will come to her family N. It is clear that the possessor has the syllogism be the
following: All goods that were within the N I belong, is so the meek B is in this case, then
the meek B belongs to me. To keep things simple, we assume no difficulties in the first proposition,
I mean as much, and that the entire dispute falls on the least that is incumbent upon the
meek prove that it belonged B to the family N.

All the lawsuit turns, not on whether the syllogism is inconclusive, but if the slightest evidence
or no. And I ask now: think no one in the syllogism? Useless "to remember that what is said everyone
has to say about each?

When it has come to prove that the meek B N belonged to the family, will need no rule to deduce
that the family M is legitimate holder? The speech is made, it is true, there is a syllogism,
no doubt, but it is something so clear, so obvious is the deduction that the rules given to remove,
rather than other thing seem a purely speculative entertainment. Will not work in the syllogism
but to find the titles to prove that the meek B really belonged to the family N, which is appropriate
to interpret the terms of the testament, donation, or sales at it
had acquired, in this and other points consist of the difficulty,
for this would be necessary sharpen the speech, thoughtful prescribing
rules to discern the truth among many and complicated and contradictory
documents.

Would be funny to others, he asked the concerned to the lawyers and the judge, how many times
have you thought of such rules, when followed with watchful eye of the thread which should
lead to the desired object, respectively.

"The currency does not meet the qualifications prescribed by law should not be received, this
ounce of gold does not, then should not be received. "The reasoning is as conclusive as useless.
When I is well educated on the circumstances required by the current
monetary law, and also have experienced that this ounce of gold has
none, it will return to the giver without speeches; and if you work
dispute, is not about the legitimacy of the result, but whether to
many or few grains of deficit has yet to take, if very heavy or not,
if carried this or that sign, and the like.

When the man runs not walks in on his thought reflexes and eye when they look do contortions
to see themselves. We present an idea, it is conceived with more or less clearly, it is contained
other or others, with these memories arises other, and so is walking smoothly, without hesitation
reflex, not to get pregnant each step with the reason for what you think.

§ III.

The enthymeme.

The evidence of these truths has made that were among the forms of argument enthymeme, which
is nothing more than a syllogism that is quiet and inferred, any of its propositions. This
form showed it to the dialectical experience of what they were seeing at every step, they might notice
that in practice was omitted as superfluous by the present extensive whole thread of reason.
So in the last example, the syllogism at length would which has been at first, but in the
form of enthymeme would become the following: "This Oz does not have the conditions prescribed
by law, then I should not receive it, "or in style vulgar, and more pithy: "Do not take it,
is short."

§ IV.

Reflections on the term.

All the artifice of the syllogism is to compare the ends with an average for deduce the relationship
we have with each other. When you know already, and must present these ends and that on average,
nothing easier to do the comparison, but by then fully rule is unnecessary, because the intellect
is at once the intended consequence. How is this average? How do you know the two extremes, when
doing research on an object, which is not known what it is? I know that if I have in mineral
was gold hands, would have such quality, but pregnancy is neither occurs to me that this may
be gold, and therefore do not think one of the two extremes, nor
even thought it, I find ways to check.

The judge knows full well that if the man walks by whom was the murderer pursues a long time,
should send the punishment, but the difficulty is that to see the guilty do not think the murderer,
and if I thought and suspect that it is the individual who is present, can not be ordered due to
lack of tests. Has two ends, but not the average, a term certainly not offer it under dialectical
forms. What do you call this man?

His country, his ordinary residence, the history of their behavior,
their way of life today, where it was when the murder, witnesses saw
him near the spot where it was found the victim, her dress, stature,
countenance, bloody signs have been noted in his clothes, dagger hidden,
the trepidation with which arrives late at his house a few moments
later the disaster, some items have been found in his possession,
and closely resemble other I had the deceased, his contradictions,
his feud with the assassinated recognized behold the average, or rather
a set of circumstances that indicate whether the inmate is the real
murderer.

And why take advantage of the rules of syllogism?

Now we have to attend to one word, then to a fact here be considered a signal is beyond must
compare two or more matches. Will need to attend to the physical, moral social and individual,
it is necessary to appreciate the value of witnesses, in a word the judge must turn the attention
in all directions, set it on thousands and thousands of different objects and weigh it all in
a fair and careful balance to not leave the guilty unpunished, or not to condemn the innocent.
 At its worst, the problem of the pupil is not how to meet
the requirements of school life, but how to seem to meet them--or, how to come near enough
to meeting them to slide along without an undue amount of friction. The type of judgment formed
by these devices is not a desirable addition to character. If these statements give too highly
colored a picture of usual school methods, the exaggeration may at least serve to illustrate
the point: the need of active pursuits, involving the use of material to accomplish purposes,
if there are to be situations which normally generate problems occasioning thoughtful inquiry.

II. There must be data at command to supply the considerations required in dealing with the
specific difficulty which has presented itself. Teachers following a "developing" method sometimes
tell children to think things out for themselves as if they could spin them out of their own
heads. The material of thinking is not thoughts, but actions, facts, events, and the relations
of things. In other words, to think effectively one must have had, or now have, experiences
which will furnish him resources for coping with the difficulty at hand. A difficulty is an
indispensable stimulus to thinking, but not all difficulties call out thinking. Sometimes they
overwhelm and submerge and discourage. The perplexing situation must be sufficiently like situations
which have already been dealt with so that pupils will have some control of the meanings of
handling it. A large part of the art of instruction lies in making the difficulty of new problems
large enough to challenge thought, and small enough so that, in addition to the confusion naturally
attending the novel elements, there shall be luminous familiar spots from which helpful suggestions
may spring.

In one sense, it is a matter of indifference by what psychological means the subject matter
for reflection is provided. Memory, observation, reading, communication, are all avenues for
supplying data. The relative proportion to be obtained from each is a matter of the specific
features of the particular problem in hand. It is foolish to insist upon observation of objects
presented to the senses if the student is so familiar with the objects that he could just as
well recall the facts independently. It is possible to induce undue and crippling dependence
upon sense-presentations. No one can carry around with him a museum of all the things whose
properties will assist the conduct of thought. A well-trained mind is one that has a maximum
of resources behind it, so to speak, and that is accustomed to go over its past experiences
to see what they yield. On the other hand, a quality or relation of even a familiar object
may previously have been passed over, and be just the fact that is helpful in dealing with
the question. In this case direct observation is called for. The same principle applies to
the use to be made of observation on one hand and of reading and "telling" on the other. Direct
observation is naturally more vivid and vital. But it has its limitations; and in any case
it is a necessary part of education that one should acquire the ability to supplement the narrowness
of his immediately personal experiences by utilizing the experiences of others. Excessive reliance
upon others for data (whether got from reading or listening) is to be depreciated. Most objectionable
of all is the probability that others, the book or the teacher, will supply solutions ready-made,
instead of giving material that the student has to adapt and apply to the question in hand
for himself.

There is no inconsistency in saying that in schools there is usually both too much and too
little information supplied by others. The accumulation and acquisition of information for
purposes of reproduction in recitation and examination is made too much of. "Knowledge," in
the sense of information, means the working capital, the indispensable resources, of further
inquiry; of finding out, or learning, more things. Frequently it is treated as an end itself,
and then the goal becomes to heap it up and display it when called for. This static, cold-storage
ideal of knowledge is inimical to educative development. It not only lets occasions for thinking
go unused, but it swamps thinking. No one could construct a house on ground cluttered with
miscellaneous junk. Pupils who have stored their "minds" with all kinds of material which they
have never put to intellectual uses are sure to be hampered when they try to think. They have
no practice in selecting what is appropriate, and no criterion to go by; everything is on the
same dead static level. On the other hand, it is quite open to question whether, if information
actually functioned in experience through use in application to the student's own purposes,
there would not be need of more varied resources in books, pictures, and talks than are usually
at command.

III. The correlate in thinking of facts, data, knowledge already acquired, is suggestions,
inferences, conjectured meanings, suppositions, tentative explanations:--ideas, in short. Careful
observation and recollection determine what is given, what is already there, and hence assured.
They cannot furnish what is lacking. They define, clarify, and locate the question; they cannot
supply its answer. Projection, invention, ingenuity, devising come in for that purpose. The
data arouse suggestions, and only by reference to the specific data can we pass upon the appropriateness
of the suggestions. But the suggestions run beyond what is, as yet, actually given in experience.
They forecast possible results, things to do, not facts (things already done). Inference is
always an invasion of the unknown, a leap from the known.

In this sense, a thought (what a thing suggests but is not as it is presented) is creative,--an
incursion into the novel. It involves some inventiveness. What is suggested must, indeed, be
familiar in some context; the novelty, the inventive devising, clings to the new light in which
it is seen, the different use to which it is put. When Newton thought of his theory of gravitation,
the creative aspect of his thought was not found in its materials. They were familiar; many
of them commonplaces--sun, moon, planets, weight, distance, mass, square of numbers. These
were not original ideas; they were established facts. His originality lay in the use to which
these familiar acquaintances were put by introduction into an unfamiliar context. The same
is true of every striking scientific discovery, every great invention, every admirable artistic
production. Only silly folk identify creative originality with the extraordinary and fanciful;
others recognize that its measure lies in putting everyday things to uses which had not occurred
to others. The operation is novel, not the materials out of which it is constructed.

The educational conclusion which follows is that all thinking is original in a projection of
considerations which have not been previously apprehended. The child of three who discovers
what can be done with blocks, or of six who finds out what he can make by putting five cents
and five cents together, is really a discoverer, even though everybody else in the world knows
it. There is a genuine increment of experience; not another item mechanically added on, but
enrichment by a new quality. The charm which the spontaneity of little children has for sympathetic
observers is due to perception of this intellectual originality. The joy which children themselves
experience is the joy of intellectual constructiveness--of creativeness, if the word may be
used without misunderstanding. The educational moral I am chiefly concerned to draw is not,
however, that teachers would find their own work less of a grind and strain if school conditions
favored learning in the sense of discovery and not in that of storing away what others pour
into them; nor that it would be possible to give even children and youth the delights of personal
intellectual productiveness--true and important as are these things. It is that no thought,
no idea, can possibly be conveyed as an idea from one person to another. When it is told, it
is, to the one to whom it is told, another given fact, not an idea. The communication may stimulate
the other person to realize the question for himself and to think out a like idea, or it may
smother his intellectual interest and suppress his dawning effort at thought. But what he directly
gets cannot be an idea. Only by wrestling with the conditions of the problem at first hand,
seeking and finding his own way out, does he think. When the parent or teacher has provided
the conditions which stimulate thinking and has taken a sympathetic attitude toward the activities
of the learner by entering into a common or conjoint experience, all has been done which a
second party can do to instigate learning. The rest lies with the one directly concerned. If
he cannot devise his own solution (not of course in isolation, but in correspondence with the
teacher and other pupils) and find his own way out he will not learn, not even if he can recite
some correct answer with one hundred per cent accuracy. We can and do supply ready-made "ideas"
by the thousand; we do not usually take much pains to see that the one learning engages in
significant situations where his own activities generate, support, and clinch ideas--that is,
perceived meanings or connections. This does not mean that the teacher is to stand off and
look on; the alternative to furnishing ready-made subject matter and listening to the accuracy
with which it is reproduced is not quiescence, but participation, sharing, in an activity.
In such shared activity, the teacher is a learner, and the learner is, without knowing it,
a teacher--and upon the whole, the less consciousness there is, on either side, of either giving
or receiving instruction, the better. IV. Ideas, as we have seen, whether they be humble guesses
or dignified theories, are anticipations of possible solutions. They are anticipations of some
continuity or connection of an activity and a consequence which has not as yet shown itself.
They are therefore tested by the operation of acting upon them. They are to guide and organize
further observations, recollections, and experiments. They are intermediate in learning, not
final. All educational reformers, as we have had occasion to remark, are given to attacking
the passivity of traditional education. They have opposed pouring in from without, and absorbing
like a sponge; they have attacked drilling in material as into hard and resisting rock. But
it is not easy to secure conditions which will make the getting of an idea identical with having
an experience which widens and makes more precise our contact with the environment. Activity,
even self-activity, is too easily thought of as something merely mental, cooped up within the
head, or finding expression only through the vocal organs.

While the need of application of ideas gained in study is acknowledged by all the more successful
methods of instruction, the exercises in application are sometimes treated as devices for fixing
what has already been learned and for getting greater practical skill in its manipulation.
These results are genuine and not to be despised. But practice in applying what has been gained
in study ought primarily to have an intellectual quality. As we have already seen, thoughts
just as thoughts are incomplete. At best they are tentative; they are suggestions, indications.
They are standpoints and methods for dealing with situations of experience. Till they are applied
in these situations they lack full point and reality. Only application tests them, and only
testing confers full meaning and a sense of their reality. Short of use made of them, they
tend to segregate into a peculiar world of their own. It may be seriously questioned whether
the philosophies (to which reference has been made in section 2 of chapter X) which isolate
mind and set it over against the world did not have their origin in the fact that the reflective
or theoretical class of men elaborated a large stock of ideas which social conditions did not
allow them to act upon and test. Consequently men were thrown back into their own thoughts
as ends in themselves.

However this may be, there can be no doubt that a peculiar artificiality attaches to much of
what is learned in schools. It can hardly be said that many students consciously think of the
subject matter as unreal; but it assuredly does not possess for them the kind of reality which
the subject matter of their vital experiences possesses. They learn not to expect that sort
of reality of it; they become habituated to treating it as having reality for the purposes
of recitations, lessons, and examinations. That it should remain inert for the experiences
of daily life is more or less a matter of course. The bad effects are twofold. Ordinary experience
does not receive the enrichment which it should; it is not fertilized by school learning. And
the attitudes which spring from getting used to and accepting half-understood and ill-digested
material weaken vigor and efficiency of thought.

If we have dwelt especially on the negative side, it is for the sake of suggesting positive
measures adapted to the effectual development of thought. Where schools are equipped with laboratories,
shops, and gardens, where dramatizations, plays, and games are freely used, opportunities exist
for reproducing situations of life, and for acquiring and applying information and ideas in
the carrying forward of progressive experiences. Ideas are not segregated, they do not form
an isolated island. They animate and enrich the ordinary course of life. Information is vitalized
by its function; by the place it occupies in direction of action. The phrase "opportunities
exist" is used purposely. They may not be taken advantage of; it is possible to employ manual
and constructive activities in a physical way, as means of getting just bodily skill; or they
may be used almost exclusively for "utilitarian," i.e., pecuniary, ends. But the disposition
on the part of upholders of "cultural" education to assume that such activities are merely
physical or professional in quality, is itself a product of the philosophies which isolate
mind from direction of the course of experience and hence from action upon and with things.
When the "mental" is regarded as a self-contained separate realm, a counterpart fate befalls
bodily activity and movements. They are regarded as at the best mere external annexes to mind.
They may be necessary for the satisfaction of bodily needs and the attainment of external decency
and comfort, but they do not occupy a necessary place in mind nor enact an indispensable role
in the completion of thought. Hence they have no place in a liberal education--i.e., one which
is concerned with the interests of intelligence. If they come in at all, it is as a concession
to the material needs of the masses. That they should be allowed to invade the education of
the elite is unspeakable. This conclusion follows irresistibly from the isolated conception
of mind, but by the same logic it disappears when we perceive what mind really is--namely,
the purposive and directive factor in the development of experience. While it is desirable
that all educational institutions should be equipped so as to give students an opportunity
for acquiring and testing ideas and information in active pursuits typifying important social
situations, it will, doubtless, be a long time before all of them are thus furnished. But this
state of affairs does not afford instructors an excuse for folding their hands and persisting
in methods which segregate school knowledge. Every recitation in every subject gives an opportunity
for establishing cross connections between the subject matter of the lesson and the wider and
more direct experiences of everyday life. Classroom instruction falls into three kinds. The
least desirable treats each lesson as an independent whole. It does not put upon the student
the responsibility of finding points of contact between it and other lessons in the same subject,
or other subjects of study. Wiser teachers see to it that the student is systematically led
to utilize his earlier lessons to help understand the present one, and also to use the present
to throw additional light upon what has already been acquired. Results are better, but school
subject matter is still isolated. Save by accident, out-of-school experience is left in its
crude and comparatively irreflective state. It is not subject to the refining and expanding
influences of the more accurate and comprehensive material of direct instruction. The latter
is not motivated and impregnated with a sense of reality by being intermingled with the realities
of everyday life. The best type of teaching bears in mind the desirability of affecting this
interconnection. It puts the student in the habitual attitude of finding points of contact
and mutual bearings.

Summary. Processes of instruction are unified in the degree in which they center in the production
of good habits of thinking. While we may speak, without error, of the method of thought, the
important thing is that thinking is the method of an educative experience. The essentials of
method are therefore identical with the essentials of reflection. They are first that the pupil
have a genuine situation of experience--that there be a continuous activity in which he is
interested for its own sake; secondly, that a genuine problem develop within this situation
as a stimulus to thought; third, that he possess the information and make the observations
needed to deal with it; fourth, that suggested solutions occur to him which he shall be responsible
for developing in an orderly way; fifth, that he have opportunity and occasion to test his
ideas by application, to make their meaning clear and to discover for himself their validity. It was red and barbipuntiagudo, with
lenses that appeared to have taken root at the top of his nose. They always called phrenologists
care by a special configuration that shone through what he exquisite smell called moral. For
science were magnificent specimen of study, a treasure for the masses were simply great. But most
of his complexion table was nervous condition suffering, it did not go two minutes without him
to do so many violent grimaces that respect only to such a high person did not die of laughter
who observed him.

Her dress was treated lesson or home economics. Describe how various cuts vests to always look
fashionable, not feathers vulgar company. Mean how neat carefully brushed every morning the
two Levites, and how deep love them liquor was at the top of the neck, taking care always
catch them with the tips of fingers is not broke, is reserved for
more specific exploit writers.

Why, and the careful review of breaks each day that passed to his two pairs of trousers, and soaks, pressings
and rubbings that racked his coat, was found innocent garment purgatory in this world? As to his hat,
just say it was a problem of longevity. Talisman is not known what had the Duke so that not an atom of
dust, not a drop of stained water never their immaculate hair. Add to this that was always a
profound mystery unchanged health Whale of an umbrella that I met him a lifetime, and what better
than the Observatory could account for all the storms that have happened in twenty years.
With regard to the gloves, which had walked in Madrid for five Aprils his emaciated yellowing
may ensure that domestic alchemy took much part in that miracle. In addition, Duke had a very special
way to put your hands, and to this, more than anything, should the life everlasting those items
that he, using one of his favorite figures, called the buskin of hands. Can form an idea of ​​gait
in mind that the boots I visited three years followed, after three lifts, and only to a system of
transportation so ingenious as wise be life stages that had the who, availing ourselves of the rhetoric
of the Duke, we quirotecas call the toes.

Used jewelry, many rings, always preferring one, where an emerald the size rampant half-penny, so deformed
that seemed false, and it was indeed, as witness the most respected chroniclers of the house
of Cantarranas have written. Queen not the same uniformity of opinion, and yet are very different
versions in regard to some string that beautify his waistcoat, as though all agree that double
was there who claims to be jewelry family, and have belonged to a
baron of the house, who was viceroy of Naples, where bought a Genoese
by a thick handful of maravedises.

Ran, with hints of a very authoritative voice of the Duke of Cantarranas was a cheesy (and we
can write the palabrilla without remorse, thanks to the leniency of the Dictionary Academy), but
this only serves to prove that the shots were struck envy always
at the top, the same way that hurricanes do most damage in the corpulent
oaks.

The Duke, in turn, despised these gossip, and to meet great souls. But out came a time when
some day, because his coat had discovered astronomy vulgar do not know what spots. In this
it resembled the sun, but, strange phenomenon, was a sun looked not only at night. He frequented
several gatherings, drinking coffee, going three times year to the
theater, walking in winter and in summer the Prado in the Mountain,
and retired to his home after a chat with the watchman.

The nature of his talent inclined to contemplation. I read a lot, enjoying greatly with sentimental
novels that had much vogue forty years ago. In this, it's strength confess that I lived a bit
atrasadillo, but the big mills have this advantage over the common people, that is, may stay
where it suits them, beating the waves revolutionary, which also carries the letters. For him,
the novels of Mad. Were Genlis the prototype, and always believed that neither old nor modern Zanchetta
had come to Mad. de Staël in your Corina. He did not like much, although it's held in high
esteem, La Nouvelle Heloise, Rousseau, because he said his scholarly and philosophical pretensions
partly attenuated pure sentimental charm of the action. But what were pulled from their boxes Nights
Young, translated by Escoiquiz, and he plunged into that ocean of sadness, identifying thereby
with the character, who sometimes found him in the morning pale, exhausted and without being able to utter
words that were not dreary and bleak as a dirge. In his conversation was left to see this influence,
because the hardware used often rhetorical figures their favorite authors had been deposited in
the brain. Your favorite image was the willow between plants, and quail among vertebrates. When
he saw a fig tree, called willow, poplar were all for him cypress antojábansele pigeons and
chickens were not linnet or lark to him with the force of his imagination, not exchange in nightingale.
More than one I heard him name his servant Pamela, and I know that only stopped calling his laundress
Clarisa Sena Clara, when she said that did not like the nicknames
verifications.

Is it necessary to state that even specifically a specialty, was the Duke of Cantarranas an excellent
critic? Suffice it to say that his advice had the force of law and their opinions were so critical
that they never appealed the August court of public opinion.

For that I quoted, together with the other three characters will describe later, to appreciate
my obrilla.

This was an ill-conceived and worse novel basting, unable, therefore, of men with many that, by so
many illustrious mills produced, currently elevate points in this
lucky country.

After the four illustrious senators who were my audience were placed well in their chairs, I took
heart of grace, coughed, look around anxiously, I breathed hard, and low voice, trembling, began this
way:

"Chapter One .-- Alejo was a young pretty ugly, son of honest parents, child study of healthy
and very honest habits, poor solemnity, and good as an apple. Boxed lived in his attic, and from there
watched the sparrows who were to stand in the fireplace and cats
that frolic through the roof.

Occasionally looked at the sky, and from time to time to the earth, view, and the stars, and
cabs. Alejo was studying law, which I was very bored and had no more distracting than look out
the window of his hovel. Describe " room with this unfortunate excrescence of society? Yes,
I'm going to describe it.

"Imagine holding a four dirty walls sloping ceiling, through which water Winter slips by countless
leaks. Rags in a manner of a blue paper hanging of the walls and the bed, tucked in a corner, was
parallel to the ceiling, that is, inclined by foot. A table was not complete, held barely two
dozen great books used, an inkwell and a hat. There were two narrow consortium slippers in very
poor state, with a guitar, which had fled in haste to the four strings, leaving one, that was
accompanied by some streak Alejo knew from early childhood. There alternated two and a half pairs
of gloves ripped, the remains of a conquest, with a jar of shoe polish and a bottle of eau
de Cologne, to which the vagaries of fate became bottle of ink, after being long oil cruet.
Of invalid hung a coat hanger, a holster militia (1854), two striped
vests and a belt embodied seemed rope.

A nail holding the hat belonging to the previous generation, and kept in a trunk their dens
a few pieces of clothing, in which the patches, though many and various, not were so numerous
nor so picturesque as the holes are not patched.

"But asomémonos to the window. Since it is the roof opposite, with dormers, fireplaces and misifuces.
Below you can see the third floor of the house further down view, second, and finally the
principal. In this there is a close Window with flowers birds and ... nothing! Alejo continually
looked the other thing, containing the close. We say what was it?

It was a lady. Alejo watched her every day, and a singular effect imagination, was watching
after all night, awake and in sleep, if I wrote, at the bottom of the inkwell, and if pondered,
fluttering like butterfly spectrum around wan light that was sometimes star in the student's
paradise.

"Looking from there to the main floor front, was distinguished primarily a hand, then arm, which
was attached to an impressive alabaster bust, which sustained head of the young, uniquely beautiful
dare I describe it? Do I dare to say that was one of the most beautiful ladies, higher origin,
most distinguished treatment that has given society to this human race, so fruitful in dukes
and duchesses? Yes, I dare.

"From above, Alejo eyes devoured a big black hair, splendid, profuse, a river of hair, as my
illustrious friend Cantarranas. (Upon hearing this analogy that I surrendered public tribute of admiration
for the enlightened hero, he bowed and blushed modestly a crumb.) Under these hairs, Alejo
admired a white arch-shaped crescent: was the front, since such a high point of view affect this
particular form. The nose beard and the tip only looming. But what could eventually be full,
magnificent, were shoulders, admirable human sculpture shows that the fabric could not hide.
Gently hair fell on his back, the color of his face looked like the same marble, and there was
no Gooseneck whiter, airy and soft, and his breast like that, it seemed have come together all pleasures.
The grace of his movements was such that to our young it melted the brain always believed that
saluting a passerby or to the friend opposite.

When he was not placed on the balcony, the voices of a magnificent piano led, changed into
harmonies, to the Razorfen of poor student. If not admired, I heard: that power you love that uses
all the senses to consolidate their hold treacherous. But, strange case! never in the long
space of three years looked up at Alejo's nest, do not observe that ugly thing from so high
looking at her and listened to the pure fervor of idealism.

"Let us add that Alejo was shortsighted: the studio and watching this weakness had increased
not allowed to distinguish three on a donkey. Fortunately, the author of this book has a view admirable,
and, therefore, can be seen from the attic of Alejo what he could not: the lady, as he was in his
real form, stripped of all the charms that the fancy of had covered a myopic, the stains that
dotted the pretty face clouded after their last birth, one could see (and this was to collect
data that provided some girl) be that surprising that hair had intervened, God willing, that created
do not know what head, and then a very skilled stylist who fixed
it to the lady.

Also note that there was not as graceful as her waist from the boreal regions of Alejo seemed
and the nose was tinged with a rosy light, not enough to disguise its magnitude. As for the
piano, I'd swear the lady played in three years other than a pot-pourri
that began at Standard and ended in Bluebeard, extravagant piece he
had composed his inability what you heard the teacher, and finally,
with respect to the breast, would be able to bet ... "

I stopped coming here. Since I read it on the stains, I noticed some
murmurs bad content.

Were in crescendo, till it came to that passage, an exclamation horror
took my word and made me stop reading.

Cantarranas was nervous, the poet and fanned herself with rage, blind anger, and made a basilisk. I
do not know if I said that one of the four people in my audience, was a poet. I think when the
time to describe this illustrious female.

II

Which passed through literate very learned and very famous all over
the world, having written several volumes of poetry, and scrawled
in all albums madrigals of humanity.

Fulfilling certain physiognomic mysterious law, she was blonde like all poets, and obeying
the same fate, high and bony. The adorned a very pointed and sharp nose and a mouth made to order for
breathe through it, because their bodies were not breathing the easiest and most expeditious.
I do not know What were his works, always bearing the stamp of his nose, a vision that chased me
in dreams several nights, and the same effect of causing me nightmares as long as two reefs little
vegetation, that temple again and hung. As the suit, betrayed, was easy to assume his body
and as thin, and poor little amojamado Safos than is customary.

She was a widow, married and single. Let us explain. She was always heard that was a widow,
all the had as married, and was actually married. He once lived in a place with a journalist
provincial, and there spent by husbands. The unhappy consort was
a martyr.

She calls Columns legs of the social order, which was nothing but graceful figure of speech,
which covered his mortal aversion to sewing pants. She did not get the points to the socks, because,
shortly strong in all kinds of spellings, always had the mouth that
wise maxim: do not live bread alone, maxim that he wanted to hide
his complete ignorance on casseroles.

The novel was his passion: the melodrama of her husband's newspaper, published a it, but enemy
to lavish praise, described as a pyramid. I read three pages, and I confess that I found it very
Catholic. She also wrote another called eminently moral. I did not moralizing reading it, and gave
the copy to my servant, which I do not know who removed him.

Suffice to reiterate the reverence that filled me with the said lady for their competence in the
art of novel. I had said repeatedly that he wanted to instill some of his high principles, and
to this end as inexorable judge was attending to the reading.

The good of the poet was shocked to see the turn that I gave to the action. Rabidly idealistic,
and was intended to demonstrate his curls and his nose could not tolerate a fiction enter fictional
ladies were not the same beautiful, handsome young men who were not chivalry in person. So, out
to defend the privileges of idealism, took the floor, and rough and squeaky voice, she said:

"But
are you crazy? What kind of art, how great, what style is that? You certainly write to vulgar
people and no finesse, not distinguished spirits.

I thought I had been called to hear things more educated, more elegant. Oh! I do not understand
well the novel. I see the bias you are going to give that: ends with outrageous jokes, and has
begun. Ay! Trap for fools something that began so well! There's the germ of a high moralistic
work. What a pity! This attic, this poor young man who lives there, sadly gazed at the lady's viewpoint
... and spend days, and looks ... and spend nights, and look ... May I die if that I was not
able to do two volumes! And that mysterious lady ... I would not say who it was until the thirtieth
chapter.

You were admirably prepared the ground to make up a work of long breath. What a pity!

Upon hearing this, I do not know what happened to me. Since I made frank confession of my impressions,
although I may be unfavorable, I am compelled to say that the opinion
of someone so adept puzzled me, so i didn't get much time to say a
word.

Serve flush with that I confess to my singular atonement and to the smug audacity idea of ​​convening
such enlightened jury, to make known one of the most ridiculous human mind abortions that have
been exit. I finally calmed, thanks to a few phrases always great kindness of the Duke, and
making an effort, responded to the poet:

"And since the beginning of the novel, given the two characters, the attic, close and others,
what you ran? How to develop the action? (Needless to say, in making these questions only led
me a desire to learn, taking over the recipes for composing literary devices that he used his
incomparable sibyl.)

- Oh! What would I do, you say? - Said coming up to me with such violence that I thought I was
going to skip the eye with his nose, - what would I do? Surely throwing a lot out there of these elements.
Suppose I am the author: this poor girl is very beautiful, it's dark
and interesting, a southern type, hot, a son of the desert.

From his window he constantly looks to the young, and spend the night
listening to the sad mayar of tigers (and call for now to cats, to
find another animal more poetic), and since there is annihilated in
the fool inspires love that mysterious lady, misteriooooosa ... What
shall I do?

My God! First to describe the lady very poetic ... cally, very languid, with blond hair, very
blond and floating, and a waist so .... (In saying this, he made an unusual gesture, determining
the thumb and index fingers of both hands a circle no larger than the periphery of an onion.)
The paint very sad, always dressed in white, day and night resting on the railing, hand on
the cheek, and looking at the vine, climbing plant lizard as balconies, came to his own shoulders.

-
I warn you - I said sheepishly - that I did not put garden, but street.

- No matter - said, - I take off the street and put wall units. Continue: the would always very
sad, and occasionally a tear came to his blue eyes, looking like errant drop spray that stops to
rest in the cup of a hyacinth. The young look to the lady, the do not watch the young lady.
Who is this lady? Is it a wife victim, a martyr daughter, a pure girl, thrown into the whirlpool
of society by the fury of the passions? Do you love or hate? Hope or fear? Ah! This is what
I would keep very well to say to the thirtieth chapter, Where would the great Golgo theatrical
work. Here is how to achieve develop action to see and get to know the two characters. One day
the lady crying more than ever, and looks more firmly into the garden, her white dress is
more than ever, more than ever on their hair blond.

A bird that plays in the bushes comes to rest on the vines near her hand the lady, and as seeing
the tip of the thumb feel is a cherry, the pike. The young screams, and at the same time save
the frightened little bird, soar, and go after perch in the loft across the street. The lady looks
up following the tiny volatile and see ... Will believe whom do you see? The young man who has
been eating it with twelve chapters eyes without it being condescending
stare.

Since then, an electrical current is established between the two lovers. It had looked! Ay! "

At
this point, I turned casually to the Duke of Cantarranas, was pale with emotion, a tear came
into his eyes green, resembling dew drop traveler stops to stand
in a lettuce cup.

Sentíame I confused, overwhelmed by the astonishing inventiveness, originality, the wit of the
woman, with whom the Safos and Staël were literate three to the room.

Of the other characters in my audience, say anything yet.

"Bravo, superb! - Said Cantarranas applauding with vigor and enthusiasm, thereby, that he jumped the
wrong button on his shirt stuck, and the tips were detachable neck
in the air.

"

- Do you like my thoughts to you? - Said the poet.

This is the only Canevas, then comes the style and ...

- I am excited about the idea - I replied, pointing with her pencil as the magic brush draw
your fantasy.

- This is the path you should follow he added, giving to Cantarranas a pin to be asserted neck.

-
Oh! The resort is lovely bird.

- The bird - Cantarranas said - should be the middleman between the white and the young lady South.

-
Well, I continue to develop the action as follows - .-- Here she continued: the young man took the
bird with her delicate fingers and giving him some bread crumbs, was fed several days, getting tame
dint of patience. You see how strange: it was loose in the room without trying to escape. One day
I tied a thread on the leg and threw him to fly, the bird came to rest on the balcony where
I was the lady, who stroked a lot and migajitas gave him cake soaked
in milk.

Later returned to the attic, the Young put a note tied around his
neck, and the bird carried it to the lady.

This established fast, passionate and volatile match that lasted three months. I would copy here
correspondence, which would take half a book, the most delicate and
elegant.

He began: "Mrs. Ignored: The winged characters that I send to you, will tell you, etc ..." And
she would reply: "Unknown Knight: With shame and dread I read your letter and would lie if
you do not ensure which of course I believe to find a loyal friend, a friend no more ... "For this
to Friends just a start. This prepares the reader to love the big
fuss to be come later.

- What tenderness, how soft, how pleasantly!
- Duke said at the height of admiration!

- I agree the thought -
I stated, noting that all discrete device to fit after in my work
as best suited me.

After the poet was shown in all its splendor,
decorated with gallantry from style, incomparable wit, then let me
run and shameful for the difference resulting from the wonderful inventiveness
and the dry, barren and birth of my caletre emaciated, How had I dared
to continue reading? Taking an attitude is by no means identical with being conscious
of one's attitude. The former is spontaneous, naive, and simple. It is a sign of whole-souled
relationship between a person and what he is dealing with. The latter is not of necessity abnormal.
It is sometimes the easiest way of correcting a false method of approach, and of improving
the effectiveness of the means one is employing,--as golf players, piano players, public speakers,
etc., have occasionally to give especial attention to their position and movements. But this
need is occasional and temporary. When it is effectual a person thinks of himself in terms
of what is to be done, as one means among others of the realization of an end--as in the case
of a tennis player practicing to get the "feel" of a stroke. In abnormal cases, one thinks
of himself not as part of the agencies of execution, but as a separate object--as when the
player strikes an attitude thinking of the impression it will make upon spectators, or is worried
because of the impression he fears his movements give rise to.

Confidence is a good name for what is intended by the term directness. It should not be confused,
however, with self-confidence which may be a form of self-consciousness--or of "cheek." Confidence
is not a name for what one thinks or feels about his attitude it is not reflex. It denotes
the straightforwardness with which one goes at what he has to do. It denotes not conscious
trust in the efficacy of one's powers but unconscious faith in the possibilities of the situation.
It signifies rising to the needs of the situation. We have already pointed out (See p. 169)
the objections to making students emphatically aware of the fact that they are studying or
learning. Just in the degree in which they are induced by the conditions to be so aware, they
are not studying and learning. They are in a divided and complicated attitude. Whatever methods
of a teacher call a pupil's attention off from what he has to do and transfer it to his own
attitude towards what he is doing impair directness of concern and action. Persisted in, the
pupil acquires a permanent tendency to fumble, to gaze about aimlessly, to look for some clew
of action beside that which the subject matter supplies. Dependence upon extraneous suggestions
and directions, a state of foggy confusion, take the place of that sureness with which children
(and grown-up people who have not been sophisticated by "education") confront the situations
of life.

2. Open-mindedness. Partiality is, as we have seen, an accompaniment of the existence of interest,
since this means sharing, partaking, taking sides in some movement. All the more reason, therefore,
for an attitude of mind which actively welcomes suggestions and relevant information from all
sides. In the chapter on Aims it was shown that foreseen ends are factors in the development
of a changing situation. They are the means by which the direction of action is controlled.
They are subordinate to the situation, therefore, not the situation to them. They are not ends
in the sense of finalities to which everything must be bent and sacrificed. They are, as foreseen,
means of guiding the development of a situation. A target is not the future goal of shooting;
it is the centering factor in a present shooting. Openness of mind means accessibility of mind
to any and every consideration that will throw light upon the situation that needs to be cleared
up, and that will help determine the consequences of acting this way or that. Efficiency in
accomplishing ends which have been settled upon as unalterable can coexist with a narrowly
opened mind. But intellectual growth means constant expansion of horizons and consequent formation
of new purposes and new responses. These are impossible without an active disposition to welcome
points of view hitherto alien; an active desire to entertain considerations which modify existing
purposes. Retention of capacity to grow is the reward of such intellectual hospitality. The
worst thing about stubbornness of mind, about prejudices, is that they arrest development;
they shut the mind off from new stimuli. Open-mindedness means retention of the childlike attitude;
closed-mindedness means premature intellectual old age.

Exorbitant desire for uniformity of procedure and for prompt external results are the chief
foes which the open-minded attitude meets in school. The teacher who does not permit and encourage
diversity of operation in dealing with questions is imposing intellectual blinders upon pupils--restricting
their vision to the one path the teacher's mind happens to approve. Probably the chief cause
of devotion to rigidity of method is, however, that it seems to promise speedy, accurately
measurable, correct results. The zeal for "answers" is the explanation of much of the zeal
for rigid and mechanical methods. Forcing and overpressure have the same origin, and the same
result upon alert and varied intellectual interest.

Open-mindedness is not the same as empty-mindedness. To hang out a sign saying "Come right
in; there is no one at home" is not the equivalent of hospitality. But there is a kind of passivity,
willingness to let experiences accumulate and sink in and ripen, which is an essential of development.
Results (external answers or solutions) may be hurried; processes may not be forced. They take
their own time to mature. Were all instructors to realize that the quality of mental process,
not the production of correct answers, is the measure of educative growth something hardly
less than a revolution in teaching would be worked.

3. Single-mindedness. So far as the word is concerned, much that was said under the head of
"directness" is applicable. But what the word is here intended to convey is completeness of
interest, unity of purpose; the absence of suppressed but effectual ulterior aims for which
the professed aim is but a mask. It is equivalent to mental integrity. Absorption, engrossment,
full concern with subject matter for its own sake, nurture it. Divided interest and evasion
destroy it.

Intellectual integrity, honesty, and sincerity are at bottom not matters of conscious purpose
but of quality of active response. Their acquisition is fostered of course by conscious intent,
but self-deception is very easy. Desires are urgent. When the demands and wishes of others
forbid their direct expression they are easily driven into subterranean and deep channels.
Entire surrender, and wholehearted adoption of the course of action demanded by others are
almost impossible. Deliberate revolt or deliberate attempts to deceive others may result. But
the more frequent outcome is a confused and divided state of interest in which one is fooled
as to one's own real intent. One tries to serve two masters at once. Social instincts, the
strong desire to please others and get their approval, social training, the general sense of
duty and of authority, apprehension of penalty, all lead to a half-hearted effort to conform,
to "pay attention to the lesson," or whatever the requirement is. Amiable individuals want
to do what they are expected to do. Consciously the pupil thinks he is doing this. But his
own desires are not abolished. Only their evident exhibition is suppressed. Strain of attention
to what is hostile to desire is irksome; in spite of one's conscious wish, the underlying desires
determine the main course of thought, the deeper emotional responses. The mind wanders from
the nominal subject and devotes itself to what is intrinsically more desirable. A systematized
divided attention expressing the duplicity of the state of desire is the result. One has only
to recall his own experiences in school or at the present time when outwardly employed in actions
which do not engage one's desires and purposes, to realize how prevalent is this attitude of
divided attention--double-mindedness. So some people think, I do not
know what is truth in this system because I do not know which is the solid foundation that
can buttress. If a substance for an object, in ceasing this why could not annihilate? A being raised,
you need continuity of action breeder Being conservative, thus stated that conservation is a
continuous creation and when leaving the object that is intended to raised substance, what problem
will it be annihilated? I do not see that this repugnant and to the wisdom or the goodness
of God, when an architect has an instrument to stop serve, or discard as unusable: in God
this would be equivalent to removing the conservative action, and the creature, to be reduced
to nothing, if not repugnant to the wisdom and goodness of God that an organized being is disorganized
or ceases to exist and be organized, why they hate which a substance ceases to exist when they
had fulfilled the purpose for which it was intended? this it follows that it would not be contrary
to sound philosophy to hold that the souls of brutes are reduced to nothing.

[19.] But suppose you do not want to go to annihilation, is there any problems or continue in
its existence? if any, is not reached.

What might? I do not know, but it is permissible to surmise that absorbed back in the deep
of nature would be useless. Nor do we know they serve many other beings, not However, neither denying
its existence so, or we question its usefulness. Who has told us the life force that resides
in the rough not having any object in destroying she encouraged the organization? The destruction
of a plant "by chance brings extinction of all vital forces in this living? and those forces,
to exercise its action about being organized is just destroyed, "left by chance to be useful in the
mysterious laboratory of nature? Who told us that a vital force can not be useful but exerted
on an object of our observation? Who told us that in the secret nature of the vital forces
do not act in ways very different, very many, and the effects of their activities do not occur
in very different ways, according to circumstances they are all in conformity to the laws established
by the infinite wisdom? The great profusion with which they are scattered seminal materials,
the number of germs find that everywhere, the immense amount of subject matter in processing and
assimilation in living the mysteries of generation in the plant and animal All this does not indicate
that the universe is shed by a number of vital forces, which operate in very different ways
and on a scale of amazing extension? Who assures us that one vital principle is unable to produce
very different phenomena according to the which is subject to conditions? which lies in the
acorn is not the same as the corpulent oak which has challenged the momentum of hurricanes for
a few centuries? If experience not testify who would be able to suspect that the vital principle
of a worm report and foul is the same as a beautiful butterfly? See it as it is contrary neither
to the reason or experience, to suppose that the soul of brutes, that life force in them lies,
whatever it is, continues to destroy the organization after his body, and absorbed back into
the treasures of nature, preserved in them, not as a useless, but exerting its activity in different
ways according to the conditions subject to which it is [I].

CHAPTER III.

Sleep and wakefulness.

[20.] The fact the feeling is linked with others, and this link is much of our knowledge. It has
been said tone is quite confident that it was not possible to demonstrate feelings by the existence
of bodies, because one thing that those being purely inside, it was possible that would lead
us to infer the existence of an external one, and there was no objection to all our feelings
were a set of individual phenomena locked inside our soul. At first glance it seems impossible
to drop the difficulty: no But if you examine it thoroughly, they will see that you have been
given more importance it deserves.

[21.] The first objection is often made against the testimony of the senses is based on difficult
to distinguish with certainty the waking state of sleep. Asleep receive impressions similar to
those which affect us awake: how do we make sure that the illusion is not life? The Abbe de
La-Mennais, with that exaggeration that characterizes him, has said:
"Those who prove that the whole life is a dream, a chimera indefinable
would do more than what they could all philosophers to date.

"

I think this is in serious difficulties, but I can not persuade me to be insoluble. I first of all
to examine whether sleep and wakefulness are different, not only in the eyes of sense common, but also
on the right. La-Mennais intended that only the court's consent community can achieve a final
and satisfactory, I am convinced that the reason severe cases can reach the same result to
leading us together, the inner meaning, common sense and common consent,
or in other words, the testimony of our being and that of our peers.

[22.] The man finds itself in a completely satisfactory assurance
of difference between sleep and waking, to know that we are awake
we do not need the testimony of others.

The difference between these states must be sought not only to the clarity and vividness of
feelings, and current certainty that they engender. Undoubtedly, sometimes in the dream images
presented to us as clearly as if we were awake, and that the certainty is now complete. Who has not
experienced during sleep, lively joy or terrible anguish? It is true that some, very rarely,
disperta, we reminiscence that in the very act of sleep loomed the question of whether we dreamed,
but they rarely frequency, and in general can be sure that the dream does not go along with
this twilight of reflective reason, that warns us of our state, and the illusion that we suffer.
For the ordinary, the duration of sleep, I have no doubt about what we dream, and embracing
a friend with a tender effusion, or cried uncontrollably over his
grave, under the same conditions we would produce the reality.

[23.] The difference is not in the current uncertainty, because on
the contrary, usually have complete certainty.

Where is it? Indicates how the reason? How comes philosophy in support of the internal sense and common
sense? This is what we are going to examine.

Regardless of whether sensations have some relation to external objects, whether his testimony is
sufficient for this or that case, and considering them only as phenomena
of our soul, there are two completely different orders of characters
acts very marked: the sleep and wakefulness.

In the depths of our souls, these two states are entirely different: even in the idealistic
system, we must recognize this distinction.

Reflecting on what we experience from which we live, or from which! what happens within us, we can
see that there is in our being two kinds of phenomena. A regular and steady, experienced two
sets of feelings: the one most or less clear, more or less alive, simply limited to the subject
without the assistance of many of our faculties, and especially without reflection on themselves,
in pursuit are other, always clear, always alive, accompanied by acts of all our faculties,
with reflection on them, on their difference of the above, with complete
subjection to our free will in all matters relating to vary, modify,
and reproduce them disappear in a thousand different ways.

I see the paper on which I write, I reflect on this vision, and I take it off when I want and
return to have it when I like, and I link this feeling with others, and a thousand thoughts, with
a thousand fancies, if I like it. What happens to me in this act, has ever happened to me,
and goes on while I check on me this series of events in this state I call waking; but if you
dream of writing, even if it did not happen that often, if not direct hit pen, not to see it
clear, all confused, I do not feel that simultaneous exercise of all my faculties, not reflect
on the state where I am, I am with the full awareness of what I do with that domain myself, with
the clear light and lively in the waking state is poured over all my actions and their objects.
Dispierto, I think what I did, as I do, what do I remember the dreams and qualify for illusions,
and judge them as unrelated species, extravagant, and compare them with the order and the consequence
of what is being offered at the vigil. None of this while I sleep: maybe There will be a clear
feeling, living, but in a way independent of my will; is an isolated printing is the use of
a single power, without the help of others, without fixed and constant comparisons, as I get
when I'm awake, and above all this phenomenon disappears shortly, or return to be plunged into a state
that I have no conscience of me, or go into another, which reproduces the same set of phenomena
than before: clear lucid related; undergoing the test of reason compared to each other and with the
above. Then, apart from any idea of ​​the outside world, and even every other being outside
ourselves, we the accuracy of the distinction of the two orders of phenomena, we understand the
words, sleep and wakefulness.

When it has tried to attack the certainty of our knowledge on the basis of the difficulty to distinguish
between these states, has seized on a futile argument, supported by a made entirely false.
So far I believe in the impossibility of distinguishing philosophically
waking from sleep, rather that I think the difference between these
two states is a of the most clear and certain of our nature.

Established this truth, and of course no doubt that the sensations
experienced during sleep, are not produced by external objects, and
therefore has not ever taken the as a means of getting the truth,
let us turn to another question of greater difficulty and importance.

CHAPTER IV.

RELATIONSHIP OF AN EXTERNAL WORLD SENSATION.

[24.] Our feelings do they have any relation to external objects or phenomena are simple of our
nature? The existence of this inner world that is the set of scenes offered by the feelings, can
we infer the existence of an external world?

This is not the practice but the theory: this question relates only to the forces of reason,
not to the voice of nature: the stronger voice than any speech, and it is impossible to resist. Whatever
the result we shall give a philosophical examination relations between the ideal and the real
world, it must submit to the need for our nature that makes us believe
in the existence of such relationships.

Humanity in the vast majority of individuals, not ever thought, and probably think, in such examination,
and yet, for her, the existence of a real world, different from us, and continuous communication
with us is immune from doubt. Nature is before that philosophy.

Do not want to indicate that the reason is powerless to express the legitimacy of the inference
It follows that the real from the ideal, or the existence of the external world of the inmate;
I intend only to draw a boundary philosophy, if not shown, at least inspire you sobriety in their
research, and mistrust in the results. And in effect, jump to the eyes must be wrong to oppose
science to contradict a necessity and a fact palpable does not deserve the name of philosophy,
which is set to fight a law that subjects his unwavering rule of humanity, even the philosopher
who dares against this law to protest. All she can say against this law will be as specious as desired;
but not more than an idle reverie: reverie that if the weakness of the understanding bastare to
undo, it will be good to resist nature, until a new existence in
another life has come to reveal what is in the depths of these mysteries,
and how they link those links whose contact points can spot the reason,
while nature experiences Grasp the irresistible that link at all stages
of their existence.

[25.] That feeling is something more than mere phenomena of our soul, which are effects of a cause
other than ourselves, is shown by the comparison of them with each
other; about the refer to an external object, and others do not: these
two orders of phenomena present characters very different.

Now there is in me to represent the country where I was born and lived in my first years. It
clearly gives me the broad plain with its fields and meadows, with their low hills that are now isolated
mounds, now extend in several directions flattening to be confused with the level of flat or gradually
rising until joining with the branches of the mountains. I see the high mountain range that
surrounds this whole plain, and that makes it a vast basin, where no more output can be seen
by the party of the south, and the occasional crack that seems to rip into some points raised
by the great wall nature. All this represents me very well inside me, notwithstanding further
than a hundred leagues away: and I represent many times I will, and by the time I want. Perhaps
that may happen without the help of my will offer me the same show, but I'm always free to
distract me, running down the curtain so to speak, for not see that
scene as well as to rise again when I feel like to witness it.

What happens in that instance I was checked against many others, and so I experience within myself
a series of events that I represent external objects, but without
any need to force me to be subjected to them, they take them off and
reproduce with simple acts of my own free will.

At the same time I feel in me happens that another class of phenomena that are not pending my
will, I can not stir or remove when I want, but are subject to certain
conditions, of which I can not do without, on pain of not achieving
what I propose.

Now that I'm experiencing is a picture, or common language, I see a picture I have before. Let
this be a purely internal, and observe the conditions of their existence,
irrespective of any external reality, including that of my body and
the organs through which they passed me, or seem to spread the feeling.

Now

experience the feeling .... now, what has mediated? the sensation of movement, has produced another
sensation of seeing and vision that has destroyed the first, or from the ideal to the real
language, I brought her hand between his eyes and the object. How is it that while is the last sensation
I can not play the first? If there are external objects, if my feelings are produced by them,
it is clear that subject to the conditions that they impose on them: but if my sensations are
nothing more than internal events, then there is no way to explain it.

This is even more incomprehensible, as in the feelings that we consider simple phenomena, no immediate
relation to any external object, we found no close dependence of one compared to others, and on the
contrary we noticed a lot of disagreement.

Purely internal events, ie those we truly be for such, are very dependent on the will, with
respect to its existence and also to their changes. I play whenever I want in my imagination,
a scene in which I represents the column of the Place Vendome in Paris, and make it disappear when
I like. The same thing happens to me all the other objects that I remember seeing: his presence
in my interior depends on my will. It is true that sometimes you would not want to represent objects,
and hard to make them disappear, but so is that some efforts are sufficient to finally disappear.
Have we seen a person dying, and for a few days remains imprinted in our imagination with his
face pale and South-East, his eyes bulging, convulsive hands, the contortions of his mouth, his painful
death rattle interrupted by some plaintive woes, we are not masters of all of this we are not ungrateful
repeatedly image, but it is certain that if we intend to distract a very complicated calculation,
or solve a difficult problem, we will make the image disappear. Whence we see even in exceptional
cases, provided that we are in sound mind, always exercise our will a great influence on the
phenomena purely internal.

Not so with those who are in immediate relationship with the outside, if I am in the presence the
dying person can not but see and hear you: if those feelings are nothing more than a internal
phenomenon, this phenomenon is of an order very different from the other: one is completely independent
my will, the other not.

Purely internal phenomena are interlinked in a very different others: those relationships too
much influence will, in others not. Additionally, the first offered or by a simple act of will,
or by themselves, alone, without any need for linkages with other than the preceding. I write
in Madrid and Suddenly it occurs to me the presence of the Thames, with its many sailing boats
vapor. For this I did not need to go through the series of phenomena that it represents me we
call Spain and France. The Thames I can not represent, after a thousand sensations unrelated
to each other and with him, but if you have to produce in me the phenomenon that I call to see,
then I will need to scroll to resign within me the whole series of phenomena involves a journey,
and not as he wants, but really and truly experiencing all the pleasures and discomfort that accompany
it: and forming a real desire to leave and go time to such time, failing to meet without the feeling
that I call to see the diligence and with that other feeling I call to see a clerk in the office
who does not want me back money, and no other feeling I call to see and touch my luggage, and
all sensations resulting from such ungrateful neglect.

When this series of internal phenomena or common language, travel adventures, I love them represent
only internally, so prepare to measure my taste: I stand, I'm more rapidly, a jump go through a
hundred leagues, I move from one point to another without passing through the intermediate In short,
I find none of the drawbacks that make me so heavy that we call reality. I'm in a world where I control,
I: and the car is ready, and the foreman on the job, and postilion in his, and flight and carried
on the wind.

The beautiful landscapes, the ungrateful wastelands, huge forests, plains, which confines meets
the sky, all paraded to my eyes with admirable speed, I get tired of going land, and without further
ado I stand on the deck of a ship at sea, and I see the choppy waves, And I hear her roar,
and which hit the side of the boat, and the pilot's voice that gives orders, see the machinations
of the sailors, walk the cameras, talking to passengers, all without
feeling bad odor, free from the anxieties of dizziness, or witness
of others.

[26.] Purely internal sensations, although they have some link with each other, mostly when coming
from the outside, this link is not such that we can not be modified in myriad ways. When we
think of the obelisk in the Place de la Concorde, of course we have the fountains and statues
and fountains, and the Tuileries Palace and the Temple of Madalena, and the Champs Elysees, and the
Palace of the Chamber of Deputies, but it is in our hands change the scene, and no more than
accidentally moved the obelisk in the middle of the Plaza de Oriente,
and we are looking at what effect there, until satisfied with the
operation we put again in his post or not think about him.

But if it comes to vision, or whether the external phenomenon, we will strive in vain to similar
maneuvers: everything is in place, or at least so it seems, and feelings
are chained together with links of iron.

The one coming after the other, and we is impossible to save the intermediate.

It also appears that the simple observation of what happens inside us, we witness the existence
of two completely different orders of phenomena: the one, all, or nearly all, depends on our
willingness, on the other nothing, in that, among other phenomena have certain relations, but
highly variable and largely subject to our whim, in this, we dependent on each other, and will
not occur under certain conditions. No I can see if I open the windows to let in the light: the
phenomenon of window and vision are necessarily linked. But it is remarkable that they are not always:
at night the open and I see; and need another auxiliary phenomenon
is artificial light, and I want more I can not alter the law of dependence.

[27.]

What does all this? indicates that phenomena beyond our control and subject in its existence
and its laws to accidents that we can not alter, are effects of beings other than ourselves. There
are ourselves, because we exist often without them are not caused by our will, as they arise
without the assistance it, and sometimes against it, not effect each other in the purely internal
because very often happens that, having followed a thousand times one event to another, suddenly
stops there for over second you play the first. This leads me to test a hypothesis which is confirmed
more and more established doctrine.

CHAPTER V.

A ideal scenario.

[28.] If the system of the idealists has to survive, we must assume that the link and dependence
of the phenomena that we refer to external objects, only exists in
within us, and we attribute causality to external objects, only belongs
to our own actions.

Pulling a cord that is in the office, long years ago rings a bell, or in idealistic language,
the internal phenomenon consists of sensations that you enter what we call cord and pull it
produces or brings with it other than sound surnamed the bell. By the habit, or a hidden law
either, there the relationship of two never interrupted succession phenomena which cause us the
illusion, why move to the real order that is purely fantastic.

This is the least irrational explanation may dip, but with few observations
can be made to feel all the futility of such a response.

Today, we
pull the cord, and strangely enough, the bell does not sound ... What
is the cause? Acquisition of a modicum of information in each branch of learning,
or at least in a selected group, remains the principle by which the curriculum, from elementary
school through college, is formed; the easier portions being assigned to the earlier years,
the more difficult to the later. The complaints of educators that learning does not enter into
character and affect conduct; the protests against memoriter work, against cramming, against
gradgrind preoccupation with "facts," against devotion to wire-drawn distinctions and ill-understood
rules and principles, all follow from this state of affairs. Knowledge which is mainly second-hand,
other men's knowledge, tends to become merely verbal. It is no objection to information that
it is clothed in words; communication necessarily takes place through words. But in the degree
in which what is communicated cannot be organized into the existing experience of the learner,
it becomes mere words: that is, pure sense-stimuli, lacking in meaning. Then it operates to
call out mechanical reactions, ability to use the vocal organs to repeat statements, or the
hand to write or to do "sums."

To be informed is to be posted; it is to have at command the subject matter needed for an effective
dealing with a problem, and for giving added significance to the search for solution and to
the solution itself. Informational knowledge is the material which can be fallen back upon
as given, settled, established, assured in a doubtful situation. It is a kind of bridge for
mind in its passage from doubt to discovery. It has the office of an intellectual middleman.
It condenses and records in available form the net results of the prior experiences of mankind,
as an agency of enhancing the meaning of new experiences. When one is told that Brutus assassinated
Caesar, or that the length of the year is three hundred sixty-five and one fourth days, or
that the ratio of the diameter of the circle to its circumference is 3.1415. . . one receives
what is indeed knowledge for others, but for him it is a stimulus to knowing. His acquisition
of knowledge depends upon his response to what is communicated.

3. Science or Rationalized Knowledge. Science is a name for knowledge in its most characteristic
form. It represents in its degree, the perfected outcome of learning,--its consummation. What
is known, in a given case, is what is sure, certain, settled, disposed of; that which we think
with rather than that which we think about. In its honorable sense, knowledge is distinguished
from opinion, guesswork, speculation, and mere tradition. In knowledge, things are ascertained;
they are so and not dubiously otherwise. But experience makes us aware that there is difference
between intellectual certainty of subject matter and our certainty. We are made, so to speak,
for belief; credulity is natural. The undisciplined mind is averse to suspense and intellectual
hesitation; it is prone to assertion. It likes things undisturbed, settled, and treats them
as such without due warrant. Familiarity, common repute, and congeniality to desire are readily
made measuring rods of truth. Ignorance gives way to opinionated and current error,--a greater
foe to learning than ignorance itself. A Socrates is thus led to declare that consciousness
of ignorance is the beginning of effective love of wisdom, and a Descartes to say that science
is born of doubting.

We have already dwelt upon the fact that subject matter, or data, and ideas have to have their
worth tested experimentally: that in themselves they are tentative and provisional. Our predilection
for premature acceptance and assertion, our aversion to suspended judgment, are signs that
we tend naturally to cut short the process of testing. We are satisfied with superficial and
immediate short-visioned applications. If these work out with moderate satisfactoriness, we
are content to suppose that our assumptions have been confirmed. Even in the case of failure,
we are inclined to put the blame not on the inadequacy and incorrectness of our data and thoughts,
but upon our hard luck and the hostility of circumstance. We charge the evil consequence not
to the error of our schemes and our incomplete inquiry into conditions (thereby getting material
for revising the former and stimulus for extending the latter) but to untoward fate. We even
plume ourselves upon our firmness in clinging to our conceptions in spite of the way in which
they work out.

Science represents the safeguard of the race against these natural propensities and the evils
which flow from them. It consists of the special appliances and methods which the race has
slowly worked out in order to conduct reflection under conditions whereby its procedures and
results are tested. It is artificial (an acquired art), not spontaneous; learned, not native.
To this fact is due the unique, the invaluable place of science in education, and also the
dangers which threaten its right use. Without initiation into the scientific spirit one is
not in possession of the best tools which humanity has so far devised for effectively directed
reflection. One in that case not merely conducts inquiry and learning without the use of the
best instruments, but fails to understand the full meaning of knowledge. For he does not become
acquainted with the traits that mark off opinion and assent from authorized conviction. On
the other hand, the fact that science marks the perfecting of knowing in highly specialized
conditions of technique renders its results, taken by themselves, remote from ordinary experience--a
quality of aloofness that is popularly designated by the term abstract. When this isolation
appears in instruction, scientific information is even more exposed to the dangers attendant
upon presenting ready-made subject matter than are other forms of information.

Science has been defined in terms of method of inquiry and testing. At first sight, this definition
may seem opposed to the current conception that science is organized or systematized knowledge.
The opposition, however, is only seeming, and disappears when the ordinary definition is completed.
Not organization but the kind of organization effected by adequate methods of tested discovery
marks off science. The knowledge of a farmer is systematized in the degree in which he is competent.
It is organized on the basis of relation of means to ends--practically organized. Its organization
as knowledge (that is, in the eulogistic sense of adequately tested and confirmed) is incidental
to its organization with reference to securing crops, live-stock, etc. But scientific subject
matter is organized with specific reference to the successful conduct of the enterprise of
discovery, to knowing as a specialized undertaking. Reference to the kind of assurance attending
science will shed light upon this statement. It is rational assurance,--logical warranty. The
ideal of scientific organization is, therefore, that every conception and statement shall be
of such a kind as to follow from others and to lead to others. Conceptions and propositions
mutually imply and support one another. This double relation of "leading to and confirming"
is what is meant by the terms logical and rational. The everyday conception of water is more
available for ordinary uses of drinking, washing, irrigation, etc., than the chemist's notion
of it. The latter's description of it as H20 is superior from the standpoint of place and use
in inquiry. It states the nature of water in a way which connects it with knowledge of other
things, indicating to one who understands it how the knowledge is arrived at and its bearings
upon other portions of knowledge of the structure of things. Strictly speaking, it does not
indicate the objective relations of water any more than does a statement that water is transparent,
fluid, without taste or odor, satisfying to thirst, etc. It is just as true that water has
these relations as that it is constituted by two molecules of hydrogen in combination with
one of oxygen. But for the particular purpose of conducting discovery with a view to ascertainment
of fact, the latter relations are fundamental. The more one emphasizes organization as a mark
of science, then, the more he is committed to a recognition of the primacy of method in the
definition of science. For method defines the kind of organization in virtue of which science
is science.

4. Subject Matter as Social. Our next chapters will take up various school activities and studies
and discuss them as successive stages in that evolution of knowledge which we have just been
discussing. It remains to say a few words upon subject matter as social, since our prior remarks
have been mainly concerned with its intellectual aspect. A difference in breadth and depth
exists even in vital knowledge; even in the data and ideas which are relevant to real problems
and which are motivated by purposes. For there is a difference in the social scope of purposes
and the social importance of problems. With the wide range of possible material to select from,
it is important that education (especially in all its phases short of the most specialized)
should use a criterion of social worth. All information and systematized scientific subject
matter have been worked out under the conditions of social life and have been transmitted by
social means. But this does not prove that all is of equal value for the purposes of forming
the disposition and supplying the equipment of members of present society. The scheme of a
curriculum must take account of the adaptation of studies to the needs of the existing community
life; it must select with the intention of improving the life we live in common so that the
future shall be better than the past. Moreover, the curriculum must be planned with reference
to placing essentials first, and refinements second. The things which are socially most fundamental,
that is, which have to do with the experiences in which the widest groups share, are the essentials.
The things which represent the needs of specialized groups and technical pursuits are secondary.
There is truth in the saying that education must first be human and only after that professional.
But those who utter the saying frequently have in mind in the term human only a highly specialized
class: the class of learned men who preserve the classic traditions of the past. They forget
that material is humanized in the degree in which it connects with the common interests of
men as men. Democratic society is peculiarly dependent for its maintenance upon the use in
forming a course of study of criteria which are broadly human. Democracy cannot flourish where
the chief influences in selecting subject matter of instruction are utilitarian ends narrowly
conceived for the masses, and, for the higher education of the few, the traditions of a specialized
cultivated class. The notion that the "essentials" of elementary education are the three R's
mechanically treated, is based upon ignorance of the essentials needed for realization of democratic
ideals. Unconsciously it assumes that these ideals are unrealizable; it assumes that in the
future, as in the past, getting a livelihood, "making a living," must signify for most men
and women doing things which are not significant, freely chosen, and ennobling to those who
do them; doing things which serve ends unrecognized by those engaged in them, carried on under
the direction of others for the sake of pecuniary reward. For preparation of large numbers
for a life of this sort, and only for this purpose, are mechanical efficiency in reading, writing,
spelling and figuring, together with attainment of a certain amount of muscular dexterity,
"essentials." Such conditions also infect the education called liberal, with illiberality.
They imply a somewhat parasitic cultivation bought at the expense of not having the enlightenment
and discipline which come from concern with the deepest problems of common humanity. A curriculum
which acknowledges the social responsibilities of education must present situations where problems
are relevant to the problems of living together, and where observation and information are
calculated to develop social insight and interest.

Summary. The subject matter of education consists primarily of the meanings which supply content
to existing social life. The continuity of social life means that many of these meanings are
contributed to present activity by past collective experience. As social life grows more complex,
these factors increase in number and import. There is need of special selection, formulation,
and organization in order that they may be adequately transmitted to the new generation. But
this very process tends to set up subject matter as something of value just by itself, apart
from its function in promoting the realization of the meanings implied in the present experience
of the immature. Especially is the educator exposed to the temptation to conceive his task
in terms of the pupil's ability to appropriate and reproduce the subject matter in set statements,
irrespective of its organization into his activities as a developing social member. The positive
principle is maintained when the young begin with active occupations having a social origin
and use, and proceed to a scientific insight in the materials and laws involved, through assimilating
into their more direct experience the ideas and facts communicated by others who have had a
larger experience. 1 Since the learned man should also still be a learner, it will be understood
that these contrasts are relative, not absolute. But in the earlier stages of learning at least
they are practically all-important.

Chapter Fifteen: Play and Work in the Curriculum

1. The Place of Active Occupations in Education. In consequence partly of the efforts of educational
reformers, partly of increased interest in child-psychology, and partly of the direct experience
of the schoolroom, the course of study has in the past generation undergone considerable modification.
The desirability of starting from and with the experience and capacities of learners, a lesson
enforced from all three quarters, has led to the introduction of forms of activity, in play
and work, similar to those in which children and youth engage outside of school. Modern psychology
has substituted for the general, ready-made faculties of older theory a complex group of instinctive
and impulsive tendencies. Experience has shown that when children have a chance at physical
activities which bring their natural impulses into play, going to school is a joy, management
is less of a burden, and learning is easier. Sometimes, perhaps, plays, games, and constructive
occupations are resorted to only for these reasons, with emphasis upon relief from the tedium
and strain of "regular" school work. There is no reason, however, for using them merely as
agreeable diversions. Study of mental life has made evident the fundamental worth of native
tendencies to explore, to manipulate tools and materials, to construct, to give expression
to joyous emotion, etc. When exercises which are prompted by these instincts are a part of
the regular school program, the whole pupil is engaged, the artificial gap between life in
school and out is reduced, motives are afforded for attention to a large variety of materials
and processes distinctly educative in effect, and cooperative associations which give information
in a social setting are provided. In short, the grounds for assigning to play and active work
a definite place in the curriculum are intellectual and social, not matters of temporary expediency
and momentary agreeableness. Without something of the kind, it is not possible to secure the
normal estate of effective learning; namely, that knowledge-getting be an outgrowth of activities
having their own end, instead of a school task. More specifically, play and work correspond,
point for point, with the traits of the initial stage of knowing, which consists, as we saw
in the last chapter, in learning how to do things and in acquaintance with things and processes
gained in the doing. It is suggestive that among the Greeks, till the rise of conscious philosophy,
the same word, techne, was used for art and science. Plato gave his account of knowledge on
the basis of an analysis of the knowledge of cobblers, carpenters, players of musical instruments,
etc., pointing out that their art (so far as it was not mere routine) involved an end, mastery
of material or stuff worked upon, control of appliances, and a definite order of procedure--all
of which had to be known in order that there be intelligent skill or art.

Doubtless the fact that children normally engage in play and work out of school has seemed
to many educators a reason why they should concern themselves in school with things radically
different. School time seemed too precious to spend in doing over again what children were
sure to do any way. In some social conditions, this reason has weight. In pioneer times, for
example, outside occupations gave a definite and valuable intellectual and moral training.
Books and everything concerned with them were, on the other hand, rare and difficult of access;
they were the only means of outlet from a narrow and crude environment. Wherever such conditions
obtain, much may be said in favor of concentrating school activity upon books. The situation
is very different, however, in most communities to-day. The kinds of work in which the young
can engage, especially in cities, are largely anti-educational. That prevention of child labor
is a social duty is evidence on this point. On the other hand, printed matter has been so cheapened
and is in such universal circulation, and all the opportunities of intellectual culture have
been so multiplied, that the older type of book work is far from having the force it used to
possess.

But it must not be forgotten that an educational result is a by-product of play and work in
most out-of-school conditions. It is incidental, not primary. Consequently the educative growth
secured is more or less accidental. Much work shares in the defects of existing industrial
society--defects next to fatal to right development. Play tends to reproduce and affirm the
crudities, as well as the excellencies, of surrounding adult life. It is the business of the
school to set up an environment in which play and work shall be conducted with reference to
facilitating desirable mental and moral growth. It is not enough just to introduce plays and
games, hand work and manual exercises. Everything depends upon the way in which they are employed.

2. Available Occupations. A bare catalogue of the list of activities which have already found
their way into schools indicates what a rich field is at hand. There is work with paper, cardboard,
wood, leather, cloth, yarns, clay and sand, and the metals, with and without tools. Processes
employed are folding, cutting, pricking, measuring, molding, modeling, pattern-making, heating
and cooling, and the operations characteristic of such tools as the hammer, saw, file, etc.
Outdoor excursions, gardening, cooking, sewing, printing, book-binding, weaving, painting,
drawing, singing, dramatization, story-telling, reading and writing as active pursuits with
social aims (not as mere exercises for acquiring skill for future use), in addition to a countless
variety of plays and games, designate some of the modes of occupation.

The problem of the educator is to engage pupils in these activities in such ways that while
manual skill and technical efficiency are gained and immediate satisfaction found in the work,
together with preparation for later usefulness, these things shall be subordinated to education--that
is, to intellectual results and the forming of a socialized disposition. What does this principle
signify? In the first place, the principle rules out certain practices. Activities which follow
definite prescription and dictation or which reproduce without modification ready-made models,
may give muscular dexterity, but they do not require the perception and elaboration of ends,
nor (what is the same thing in other words) do they permit the use of judgment in selecting
and adapting means. Not merely manual training specifically so called but many traditional
kindergarten exercises have erred here. Moreover, opportunity for making mistakes is an incidental
requirement. Not because mistakes are ever desirable, but because overzeal to select material
and appliances which forbid a chance for mistakes to occur, restricts initiative, reduces judgment
to a minimum, and compels the use of methods which are so remote from the complex situations
of life that the power gained is of little availability. It is quite true that children tend
to exaggerate their powers of execution and to select projects that are beyond them. But limitation
of capacity is one of the things which has to be learned; like other things, it is learned
through the experience of consequences. The danger that children undertaking too complex projects
will simply muddle and mess, and produce not merely crude results (which is a minor matter)
but acquire crude standards (which is an important matter) is great. But it is the fault of
the teacher if the pupil does not perceive in due season the inadequacy of his performances,
and thereby receive a stimulus to attempt exercises which will perfect his powers. Meantime
it is more important to keep alive a creative and constructive attitude than to secure an external
perfection by engaging the pupil's action in too minute and too closely regulated pieces of
work. Accuracy and finish of detail can be insisted upon in such portions of a complex work
as are within the pupil's capacity.

Unconscious suspicion of native experience and consequent overdoing of external control are
shown quite as much in the material supplied as in the matter of the teacher's orders. The
fear of raw material is shown in laboratory, manual training shop, Froebelian kindergarten,
and Montessori house of childhood. The demand is for materials which have already been subjected
to the perfecting work of mind: a demand which shows itself in the subject matter of active
occupations quite as well as in academic book learning. That such material will control the
pupil's operations so as to prevent errors is true. The notion that a pupil operating with
such material will somehow absorb the intelligence that went originally to its shaping is fallacious.
Only by starting with crude material and subjecting it to purposeful handling will he gain
the intelligence embodied in finished material. In practice, overemphasis upon formed material
leads to an exaggeration of mathematical qualities, since intellect finds its profit in physical
things from matters of size, form, and proportion and the relations that flow from them. But
these are known only when their perception is a fruit of acting upon purposes which require
attention to them. The more human the purpose, or the more it approximates the ends which appeal
in daily experience, the more real the knowledge. When the purpose of the activity is restricted
to ascertaining these qualities, the resulting knowledge is only technical.

To say that active occupations should be concerned primarily with wholes is another statement
of the same principle. Wholes for purposes of education are not, however, physical affairs.
Intellectually the existence of a whole depends upon a concern or interest; it is qualitative,
the completeness of appeal made by a situation. Exaggerated devotion to formation of efficient
skill irrespective of present purpose always shows itself in devising exercises isolated from
a purpose. Laboratory work is made to consist of tasks of accurate measurement with a view
to acquiring knowledge of the fundamental units of physics, irrespective of contact with the
problems which make these units important; or of operations designed to afford facility in
the manipulation of experimental apparatus. The technique is acquired independently of the
purposes of discovery and testing which alone give it meaning. Kindergarten employments are
calculated to give information regarding cubes, spheres, etc., and to form certain habits of
manipulation of material (for everything must always be done "just so"), the absence of more
vital purposes being supposedly compensated for by the alleged symbolism of the material used.
Manual training is reduced to a series of ordered assignments calculated to secure the mastery
of one tool after another and technical ability in the various elements of construction--like
the different joints. It is argued that pupils must know how to use tools before they attack
actual making,--assuming that pupils cannot learn how in the process of making. Pestalozzi's
just insistence upon the active use of the senses, as a substitute for memorizing words, left
behind it in practice schemes for "object lessons" intended to acquaint pupils with all the
qualities of selected objects. The error is the same: in all these cases it is assumed that
before objects can be intelligently used, their properties must be known. In fact, the senses
are normally used in the course of intelligent (that is, purposeful) use of things, since the
qualities perceived are factors to be reckoned with in accomplishment. Witness the different
attitude of a boy in making, say, a kite, with respect to the grain and other properties of
wood, the matter of size, angles, and proportion of parts, to the attitude of a pupil who has
an object-lesson on a piece of wood, where the sole function of wood and its properties is
to serve as subject matter for the lesson.

The failure to realize that the functional development of a situation alone constitutes a "whole"
for the purpose of mind is the cause of the false notions which have prevailed in instruction
concerning the simple and the complex. For the person approaching a subject, the simple thing
is his purpose--the use he desires to make of material, tool, or technical process, no matter
how complicated the process of execution may be. The unity of the purpose, with the concentration
upon details which it entails, confers simplicity upon the elements which have to be reckoned
with in the course of action. It furnishes each with a single meaning according to its service
in carrying on the whole enterprise. After one has gone through the process, the constituent
qualities and relations are elements, each possessed with a definite meaning of its own. Or you lack some caudalejo of philosophy, which has persuaded me to you would
like more than any other this writing of a sage.

First it was written in the ancient Chaldean, which neither you nor I know, and was translated
into Arabic for recreation of the sultan named Ulug-beg, in the times that Arabs and Persians
were given to write the Thousand and One Nights, The Thousand and One Days, etc. Ulug most liked
to read to Zadig, but more amused with sultanas is the Thousand and one. Ulug he said unto the
wise, how could bear with patience some stories without head nor
tail, that meant nothing.

Well, that is why are to our liking, answered the sultanas.

I hope you do not look like them, and you're a true Ulug, and not mistrust that when you were
weary of talks as instructive as the Thousand and one, although much
less recreation, can I have the honor that you take a few minutes
of wandering in things you hear me those on right.

If time scandir, son of Philip, would have been Thalestris, or the queen of time Sabean Soleyman of
these kings have been those who have made pilgrimages to see you.

I beg your heavenly virtues carry no bitterness delights be lasting
your beauty and your chance for life.

SADI.

CHAPTER ONE.

The one-eyed.

King Moabdar reign, lived in Babylon a young man named Zadig, of good character, which education
had improved. Did bridle his passions, though handsome and rich, and spent affectation, and he
insisted on always give him the reason, and respected human frailty. Pasmábanse all seeing as
he had plenty of wit, never taunted with chufletas of the perturbation bad yarn, the baseless rumors
of the crazy decisions, minstrels of ridicule, which the Babylonians called conversation. In the first
book Zoroaster had seen that love is itself a ball full of wind, and coming out of it storms so that
the sting. Not that Zadig was praised to no appreciation for the women, and that dominated. It
was liberal, but undeterred we fear to do good to ungrateful fulfilling the great commandment
of Zoroaster, who says: "Give food to the dogs" Quando you eat, even bite you "after." Quanto was
wise man can be, for he tried live in the company of the sages had learned the science of the
Chaldeans, and was instructed in quanto about the physical principles of nature in his time
was known, and metaphysics quanto knew everything at all times have
known, that is to say very little.

Most firmly believed that a year has three hundred sixty-five days and a quarter, against what
he taught modern philosophy of his time, and that was the sun in the center of the world, and when the
main magicians told him in a tone of reproach, and looking sideways, that sustained early sapient
haeresim, and that only an enemy of God and the state could say that the sun revolved about
its exe, and that was the year of twelve months, Zadig was silent, without frown or shrug shoulders.

Opulent,
and therefore not lacking friends, enjoying health, being handsome, wise and moderate, with
chest naive, and elevated mood, thought he could aspire to be happy. Was bespoken Semira her
marriage, which her beauty, her dowry, and his birthplace, was the best wedding Babylon. Zadig Profesábale
a sincere and virtuous love, and Semira loved him with passion. Verged and the happy day that
would link them, when two lovers walking outside Gates of Babylon, Baxo some palms that shaded the
banks of the Euphrates, they saw approached by men armed with cutlass and arrows. These were
some of the youth executioners Orcan, nephew of a minister, and as such the sycophants of his
uncle he had been persuaded to which they could do quanto he pleased. None of the clothing and possessed
virtues of Zadig; but believed that long preceded him, was in despair at not being the favorite.
This jealousy, mere children of his vanity made him believe he was in love Semira, and wanted
to steal it. Habíanla caught the robbers, and the outburst of violence had hurt her, pouring
the blood of a person who by his presence Imao tigers would have tamed the mountain. Pierced
Semira the sky with their cries, crying, Dear Husband, I have to whom ye I love it! Not moved
the danger in which he was, as his dear Zadig alone in thought. Defendíala this with all the
boldness of love and courage, and with the help of two slaves drove alone to the robbers,
and he brought to Semira bloody and faint, that opened my eyes met their freedom. O Zadig! said
to him, I loved like my husband, and now I want like that life whom I am indebted and honored.
Never overflowed one breast more tender affection than Semira, never so pretty mouth spoke
so vividly of those expressions swollen that the gratitude of the highest benefit and the
most tender affection of most legitimate abductions are children. His wound was slight, and
he recovered soon. Zadig was wounded in greater danger, because an arrow had made a deep wound
near the eye. Semira importuned to the Gods the cure of her lover: Day and night eyes bathed
in tears, waited impatiently Zadig moment that they could enjoy in looking at, but a boil that
formed in the injured eye caused the greatest fear. Memphis sent to call the doctor famous Hermes,
who came with a swollen entourage, and having visited the patient stated that inevitably perdia
the eye, predicting up to the day and time that had happened so fatal dismantling. If there
been, he said, the right eye, I would heal, but the wounds of the left have no cure. All Babylon
hurt the fate of Zadig, while it was amazed at the profound science Hermes. Two days after the
boil burst naturally, and healed Zadig. Hermes wrote a book, proving that there should be healed,
the qual Zadig did not read, but then he could out, went to see who expected that of happiness,
and who only wanted to have eyes, he found himself in his fifth Semira three days to, and knew
the road Zadig, who, after to declare resolutely that he had an invincible antipathy to the
one-eyed, beautiful lady Orcan had married that night. Desmayóse to hear this news, and was
in no that your pain will conduxera the tomb, but after a long illness, but the reason could
that feeling, and it was no small part of the same atrocity comfort of the grievance. Well I
am a victim, he said, of so cruel whim of a woman raised in the palace, I will marry a daughter
of a respectable neighbor.

Chosen because of Azor wife, a damsel very sane and best nature,
in whom there is any defect noticed more nothingness, and there is
little inclination to believe The cutest boys were always the most
wise and virtuous.

CHAPTER II

Noses.

One day she returned from walking Azora all immutable and decomposed by gestures: What are you,
dear? Zadig said to him, what is so far beyond what you made thee? Ay! replied Azora same hicieras
you, if you had seen the scene I just witnessed, had gone to console Cosrúa to the young widow has
erected two days ago, a mausoleum of the deceased young man, husband yours, it is the stream that
bathes the prairie, swearing to the gods, in their pain, they would not depart in the vicinity
of this tomb, whilst the stream is not moved its flow. Well done, 'said Zadig, that's a sign that
a woman is well, that really loved her husband. Ha, replied Azora, if you knew it was his occupation
Quando qual went to see her .-- Qual era, beautiful Azora? - Dar another channel for the stream.
Azora then added many invectives, burst into such a bitter accusations against the widow girl,
who under very upset to Zadig as boastful. A friend of his named Er, was one of the waiters
who was said Azora by merit and integrity more than others, Zadig she trusted him his secret,
hold, in quanto he was able, with Quanti loyalty gifts. Azora After spending two days in a
villa of her friend returned to his home the third. The servants told him crying that night
had fallen dead suddenly her husband, who had not dared to bring bad news, that ended Zadig
to bury in the grave of his parents at the end of the garden. Azora cried, mesábase hair,
and swore he did not want to live. That night asked permission to speak Cador with her, and
wept both. The next day I cry less, and ate together. Cador Fiole that he had forsaken his
friend most of his wealth, and gave him to understand that their
greatest that would be able to part with it.

That the lady wept, was angry, and then subsided; and as the dinner was longer than the food, speak
both with more confidence. He Azores eulogy of the deceased, confessed, however, that suffered
from some small defects in Cador were not.

In the middle of supper Cador complained of intense pain in the spleen, and the lady concerned
and scared traxeran you sent all that is perfumed with essences, to test whether any remedy
was a against the pains of the spleen; feeling much he had gone already wise Babylon Hermes,
and deigning to touch the side where Cador felt such great pain. Do you usually I give you this
pain so cruel? said to him compassionately. Two fingers of the grave makes me sometimes, replied
Cador, and there is only one remedy for relief, which is applied to the cost the face of a
man who died the day before. Bizarre choice! he said Azora. There is more rare, said Cador,
the horns of deer that put children to preserve the evil eye. The latter reason with the waiter
a lot of merit determined after the lady. Finally, he said, if my husband's nose is a little
shorter in the second life that the first, not that he has to keep out the angel Asrael, when
crossing the bridge Sebinavar, to move from the world of yesterday morning. Saying this, he
took a knife, went near the grave of her husband bañándole into tears, and to cut off the noses
Baxo; but Zadig who was lying in the grave, one hand clutching his
nose, and diverting the knife with the other, rose suddenly exclaimed,
again do not say much bad about Cosrúa, that the idea of ​​cutting
my nose well they can gamble in moving to the current a stream.

CHAPTER III.

The dog and horse.

Zadig soon saw that, as the book of Zenda-Vesta, if the first month of marriage is the honeymoon,
the second is the aloes. Very quickly saw himself compelled to repudiate the Azores, which
had become unbearable, and tried to be happy studying nature.

There be more fortunate, he said, that the philosopher who studied the great book of God in
the eyes men. The truths he discovers are his property, supports and enhances your mood, and
lives in quiet, without fear of others, and without the coming of his tender wife to cut off
noses.

Steeped in these ideas, retreated to fifth on the banks of the Euphrates,
which was not involved to calculate quantas inches of water pass each
second Baxo the arches of a bridge, or whether month mouse cubic rain
water line more than the ram, or devised to make silk with cobwebs,
or porcelain with broken bottles, studying, yes, the properties of
animals and plants, and soon grangeó a sagacity that made him play
thousands of differences where others saw only uniformity.

A day strolling beside a grove, he saw a eunuch come running from the Queen, accompanied several
employees of the palace, all seemed full of anxiety, and ran everywhere like hell they're looking
for the most precious thing they have lost. Mancebo, told him the main eunuch, Did you see
the queen's dog? Zadig answered modestly: no dog is bitch. You are right, "said the chief eunuch.
It is a very small fine bitch, Zadig continued, that has borne little has, coxa of the left
foot forward, and has very long ears.

How that you have seen? he said the first eunuch beside himself. Certainly not, "replied Zadig,
or I have seen or knew that the queen had no dog.

Pass that by a quirk of chance had been missed at the same time the hands of a groom of the king
the best horse in the royal stables, and were running for plain of Babylon. Iban behind him
the Horse and all his subordinates to not less urgency that the chief eunuch behind the dog,
the groom He went to Zadig, and asked if he had seen the king's horse. That is a horse, 'said
Zadig, who has the best canter six feet tall, the tiny hoof, tail and fourth long pole, the
snack gold brake is twenty-three carats, and eleven silver horseshoe
money.

Why where has it gone? Where is it? asked the equerry. Nor have I seen, "said Zadig, or I have
never heard of him.

Or to the Horse or the chief eunuch was clear that they had stolen the horse Zadig the king and
queen bitch, conduxeronle it to the assembly of large Desterham, which sentenced to two hundred
lashes and six years in prison. No sooner had given the sentence, when seemed the horse and the dog,
so that judges were in the painful precision to cancel his sentence,
he nevertheless condemned Zadig to a fine of four hundred ounces of
gold, because he had seen had said Queno having seen.

First paid the fine, and then allowed pleyto defend against the advice of the great Desterliam,
where he said this:

Astros justice founts of knowledge, mirrors of truth, which lead to the seriousness of Unix the hardness
of iron, the brightness of the diamond, and no little affinity with gold, allowed siéndome speak before
this August assembly, I swear by Orosmades, have never seen nor respectable dog of the Queen, nor
the sacred horse of the king of kings. The event has been like going to count. Walking walking
in the grove where he later met the venerable eunuch, and the illustrious groom higher. Observed
in the sand the tracks of an animal, and easily met was a small dog. Long and thin grooves, printed
in heaps of sand between the tracks of the feet I made it known that was a bitch, and her tits
hung, where I gathered that he had calved a few days to. Other remains in another direction, which always
look flush dexaban sand beside the front foot, showed me that he
had long ears, and as the footsteps of one foot were less deep in
the sand than the other three, pulled by consequence it was, if I
dared to speak, a little bitch coxa of our August queen.

In quanto a horse of the king of kings, the truth is that pacing the sidewalks of the forest,
I noticed the signs of the hoofs of a horse, they were all at the same distance. This horse,
dixe, has the perfect canter. In a narrow road that has no more than two and a half yards wide,
was at left and right to sweep the dust in some Parages. The horse, I guess I have a glue stick
and fourth, with its moves to right and to left, has swept this dust. Vnder trees forming
a canopy of two yards high, were freshly fallen leaves of the branches, and knew that he had
forsaken down the horse, which therefore had two Yaras. Your brakes must be gold of twenty-three
carats, because, having scrubbed his head against a stone snack I've seen was playing, I did
the test.

Finally, brands that have forsaken the horseshoes on rocks other species have proved that I was
eleven silver money.

Abode stunned all the judges with astute sense to Zadig, and the news came the king and queen. In
lobbies, rooms, cabinets and did not speak more than Zadig, and King ordered him to be A REFUND OF
THE fine of four hundred ounces of gold they had been sentenced since there were few magicians burn
opinion as a sorcerer.

They went with great pomp home to the clerk of the cause, sheriffs and prosecutors, to take their
four hundred ounces, not save costs by more than three hundred ninety-eight clerks truth is
that They asked for a gratuity.

Zadig was looking very dangerous thing to know too much, made firm purpose of not saying On another
occasion I had ever seen, and the occasion was not long in coming. A state inmate escaped,
and passed vnder Zadig balconies. They took the statement as he had not declared nothing, and
having established that he had out on the balcony, was sentenced
by size Crime do to pay five hundred ounces gold, and thanked the
judges for their great kindness, that this was the custom in Babylon,
Great God, he said Zadig each other, which unfortunately is who walks
in the woods where you pass the King's horse, or the dog of the Queen!

What Hazard, who runs his balcony overlooks!

How very difficult it is to be happy in this life!

CHAPTER IV.

The envious.

Zadig appealed to friendship and comfort to the philosophy for the ills that had made the fortune.
In a suburb of Babylon had a house furnished with much taste, and there met arts and recreation
worthy of a fine man.

In the morning his library was open for all the wise and evening his table to persons of good
education. But very soon he perceived it was too dangerous to try to scholars. Suscitóse a fierce
debate about a law of Zoroaster, which forbids eating faucet. "As they are not the faucet, said
one, if no such animal? Force is that it has, said others, when you
do not want Zoroaster eat. Zadig, by them comply, he said to them:
I do not eat faucet, if there are taps, and if not available, we will
eat less, and thus to obey Zoroaster.

There was a wise writer who
had composed a work in thirteen folio volumes about properties of
the taps, great Theurgists, which went to all haste to submit to the
Archmage Drastanés, the most foolish, and consequence to the most
fanatic of the Chaldeans to those remote times. And such media have no fixed
saturation point where further absorption is impossible. The more that is taken in, the greater
capacity there is for further assimilation. New receptiveness follows upon new curiosity, and
new curiosity upon information gained.

The meanings with which activities become charged, concern nature and man. This is an obvious
truism, which however gains meaning when translated into educational equivalents. So translated,
it signifies that geography and history supply subject matter which gives background and outlook,
intellectual perspective, to what might otherwise be narrow personal actions or mere forms
of technical skill. With every increase of ability to place our own doings in their time and
space connections, our doings gain in significant content. We realize that we are citizens
of no mean city in discovering the scene in space of which we are denizens, and the continuous
manifestation of endeavor in time of which we are heirs and continuers. Thus our ordinary daily
experiences cease to be things of the moment and gain enduring substance. Of course if geography
and history are taught as ready-made studies which a person studies simply because he is sent
to school, it easily happens that a large number of statements about things remote and alien
to everyday experience are learned. Activity is divided, and two separate worlds are built
up, occupying activity at divided periods. No transmutation takes place; ordinary experience
is not enlarged in meaning by getting its connections; what is studied is not animated and
made real by entering into immediate activity. Remember you
of that great philosopher who expired on the cross leaving the principles enshrined Humanity.

-
What principles or what ...!

Will you leave here, so bug? ... Wow that is as stuffy and smelly jerk and I've seen. Whenever
I'm worried I get to these puns.

- My friend, calmly. To the designs of nature, of humanity, the great All, What can man? Man! the
ant, let alone the flea ... still much less.

- That coquito ... alone, this ... Daggers! - Torquemada added sarcastically horrible, mimicking
Sibyl's voice and waving his fist after .-- If not shut up I'll break your face .... The same
thing gives me the great whole that the very large and very lousy
anything that was invented.

Let me, Let me go, for the damned soul of his mother, or ....»

Rufina came over, brought by two of her friends, to depart from the sad spectacle of the bedroom.
The poor girl could not be sustained. Fell on his knees breathing sighs, and see his father
struggling with Bailon, said: "Dad, by God, do not get well. Resign yourself ... I am resigned, did
not you see me ... The poor ... when I came ... had a moment ay!
they regained consciousness.

His voice was clear and said he saw the angels that were calling.

- Son of my soul, son of my life - Torquemada shouted with all the
force of his lungs, made a wild, insane - no go, never mind, that
these are crooks who love you fool .... Stay with us ....»

That said, came round to the ground, stretched out a leg and caught the other arm. Bailon,
with all his strength could not hold him, for developing a muscular force unlikely. Al same
time let go of his puckered mouth a ferocious roar and foam. Contractions
of the limbs and kicking were really horrible sight: the nails are
hammered the neck until it bleeds. The task of education, once more,
is to see to it that such activities are performed in such ways and under such conditions as
render these conditions as perceptible as possible. To "learn geography" is to gain in power
to perceive the spatial, the natural, connections of an ordinary act; to "learn history" is
essentially to gain in power to recognize its human connections. For what is called geography
as a formulated study is simply the body of facts and principles which have been discovered
in other men's experience about the natural medium in which we live, and in connection with
which the particular acts of our life have an explanation. So history as a formulated study
is but the body of known facts about the activities and sufferings of the social groups with
which our own lives are continuous, and through reference to which our own customs and institutions
are illuminated.

2. The Complementary Nature of History and Geography. History and geography--including in the
latter, for reasons about to be mentioned, nature study--are the information studies par excellence
of the schools. Examination of the materials and the method of their use will make clear that
the difference between penetration of this information into living experience and its mere
piling up in isolated heaps depends upon whether these studies are faithful to the interdependence
of man and nature which affords these studies their justification. Nowhere, however, is there
greater danger that subject matter will be accepted as appropriate educational material simply
because it has become customary to teach and learn it. The idea of a philosophic reason for
it, because of the function of the material in a worthy transformation of experience, is looked
upon as a vain fancy, or as supplying a high-sounding phraseology in support of what is already
done. The words "history" and "geography" suggest simply the matter which has been traditionally
sanctioned in the schools. The mass and variety of this matter discourage an attempt to see
what it really stands for, and how it can be so taught as to fulfill its mission in the experience
of pupils. But unless the idea that there is a unifying and social direction in education is
a farcical pretense, subjects that bulk as large in the curriculum as history and geography,
must represent a general function in the development of a truly socialized and intellectualized
experience. The discovery of this function must be employed as a criterion for trying and sifting
the facts taught and the methods used.

The function of historical and geographical subject matter has been stated; it is to enrich
and liberate the more direct and personal contacts of life by furnishing their context, their
background and outlook. While geography emphasizes the physical side and history the social,
these are only emphases in a common topic, namely, the associated life of men. For this associated
life, with its experiments, its ways and means, its achievements and failures, does not go
on in the sky nor yet in a vacuum. It takes place on the earth. This setting of nature does
not bear to social activities the relation that the scenery of a theatrical performance bears
to a dramatic representation; it enters into the very make-up of the social happenings that
form history. Nature is the medium of social occurrences. It furnishes original stimuli; it
supplies obstacles and resources. Civilization is the progressive mastery of its varied energies.
When this interdependence of the study of history, representing the human emphasis, with the
study of geography, representing the natural, is ignored, history sinks to a listing of dates
with an appended inventory of events, labeled "important"; or else it becomes a literary phantasy--for
in purely literary history the natural environment is but stage scenery.

Geography, of course, has its educative influence in a counterpart connection of natural facts
with social events and their consequences. The classic definition of geography as an account
of the earth as the home of man expresses the educational reality. But it is easier to give
this definition than it is to present specific geographical subject matter in its vital human
bearings. The residence, pursuits, successes, and failures of men are the things that give
the geographic data their reason for inclusion in the material of instruction. But to hold
the two together requires an informed and cultivated imagination. When the ties are broken,
geography presents itself as that hodge-podge of unrelated fragments too often found. 

THE MULE AND THE OX

CHRISTMAS CAROL

I

He stopped complaining about
the poor girl, shook her head, fixing his eyes sad people around his
bed extinguióse Gradually his breath, and expired.

The Guardian Angel, giving a sigh, took flight and went away.

The unhappy mother did not believe much trouble, but the very pretty face was getting Celinina
yellow and transparent as wax enfriáronse its members, and was stiff
and hard as the body a doll.

Then taken out of the bedroom to the mother, the father and the most immediate relatives, and two
or three friends and the servants were engaged in fulfilling the last duty to the poor girl
dead.

The rich wore batiste dress, white skirt and light as a cloud, all
full lace and curls that resemble foam.

They placed the shoes, just white and also lightly worn the sole sign of having taken few steps,
and then wove, with wonderful dark brown hair, graceful braids bound with blue ribbons. Flowers
sought, but not finding them for being so inappropriate of them the season, spun a beautiful
wreath with fabric flowers, choosing the most beautiful and most seemed to brought real fresh
roses in the garden.

A nasty man brought a box slightly larger than a violin, lined with
blue silk silver braid, and trimmed in white satin.

Celinina to put in holding its beautiful and soft head pillow, for in stance was not violent,
then that settled well in his funeral couch, crossed his little hands and tie with ribbon, and between
them put him a bouquet of white roses, so ably made by the artist, daughters appeared the same
in April.

Then those women covered with colorful table cloths, arranged as an
altar and she was placed on the box.

In a short time put together a canopy mode church with rich white curtains, as set out bravely
to either side, brought from other parts number of saints and images, which neatly distributed
on the altar as forming angel funeral home court late, and without loss of time, fired some dozens
of lights in the great chandeliers of the room, which, around Celinina, shed very sad clarity.
After repeatedly kissing the cheeks of the poor ice girl were terminated his pious work.

II

There in the depths of the house, sounded groans of men and women.

It was the sad lament parents, who could not be convinced of the truth of the aphorism angels
to heaven, Friends moral administered as a painkiller such trances. Parents believed then
that the true and own abode of the angels is the earth and could not support the theory that
is much more lamentable and disastrous death of large than small. Felt, mixed his pain, profound
pity that inspires the agony of a child, not understood that no penalty exceed those that tore her
womb.

Thousand painful memories and images were wounded, taking the form of daggers that were excruciating
pierced the heart. The mother heard endlessly charming half Celinina language, saying things upside
down, and making the words of our language funny cartoons philological that flowed from her pretty
mouth as the earliest music that can touch the heart of a mother. Nothing characterizes a child
as his style, the one true way to express themselves and say all four letters, and grammar that
prehistoric, like the first wailing of the word at the dawn of humanity, and the simple art of declensions
and conjugations, the correction appears language innocent regularized by the application. The vocabulary
of a child of three years, Celinina, is the literary treasure families. How could I forget lengüecita
mother that rag, he called the hat Tumey and chickpea babancho?

To add insult to misery, the good lady saw everywhere the objects that Celinina his last days
were elated, and as they were the ones that precede Christmas, rolled down soil clay turkey
legs Wire, a San Jose without hands, a manger with Baby God, like a pink ball, a mounted Wise
arrogant camel without head. What these poor figures had suffered in recent days, trailed here
and there, put in this or in other words, only God, mom and the pure spirit who had flown
to heaven knew.

The broken sculptures were impregnated, so to speak, the soul of Celinina, or dressed, if you
will, of a singular clarity very sad, that was the clarity of it. The poor mother looking at them,
shaking all, feeling wounded in the most delicate and sensitive of his inner self. Strange alliance
of things! I cried those pieces of clay! Full looked like an intense grief, and so painful,
that his view alone produced as much bitterness as the show of the same creature dying, he looked with
pleading eyes to his parents and asked them to take from this horrible pain in his forehead,
seared! The saddest thing in the world was that the mother turkey with wire legs stuck in clay
tablet, and in his frequent changes in posture had lost the peak and mucus.

III

But if the situation was distressing spirit of the mother, Eral
much of the father.

It pain was transferred, in this, the pain was aggravated by an excruciating remorse. We will Basking
briefly noting that this case may seem extremely childish to some, But those who believe that, I remember
that nothing is as childish as he led intimate and pure pain, those in which there is any mixture
of land interests, nor secondary affliction of selfishness is not satisfied.

Since Celinina fell ill, he felt the desire of the parties that are
most happy poetry to the children: the Christmas holidays.

Everyone knows with what longing desire the arrival of these cheerful days, and how it disrupts
the feverish desire for the gifts, births, and hopes of much eating and gorging on turkey, marzipan,
sugared almonds and nougat. Some are believed capable with the greatest ingenuity, stuffing it into
their stomachs as hold the Plaza Mayor and streets adjacent.

Celinina, improvement in his spare time, he kept his mouth the theme
of Easter and their cousins, who would accompany him, were older and
knew all there is to know about gifts and births, is more fantasy
ruffling the poor girl listening to them, and more were turned on
their possessiveness candy and toys.

Delirious, when put it in the oven of martyrdom fever, he kept that name so occupied his mind, and
it was hit drums, strumming zambombas, singing carols. In the dark area around his mind, there
were only making clau clau turkeys, chickens screaming peep; mountains coming nougat the sky
in an almond Guadarrama; births full of lights and had at least Fifty billion figures, candy
bouquets, trees laden with many toys can devise the most fertile imagination zip, the pond
filled Retiro almond soup; bream that looked to the cooks with their eyes are set, descending
from the sky orange, falling in more abundance than water droplets in day time, and a thousand other
wonders without number or measure.

IV

The father, having no smaller than Celinina, not beside himself with restless and uneasy. His
business called him away from home, but often went into it to see
how was the little patient.

The evil continued their march with treacherous alternatives: sometimes
giving hope remediation, other removing them.

The good man had sad forebodings. The Celinina bed, overwhelmed with the sweet person it by fever
and pain, not away from his imagination.

Attentive to what might contribute to rejoice the spirit of the girl, every night, he returned to
the house, brought him a gift of Easter, always changing the subject and species, but apart
Always treat all. She brought him one day a flock of turkeys, so true to facts, they do not
needed was squawking, another day out of their pockets half of the Holy Family, and Next to
San Jose with the manger and stable in Bethlehem. Then came a gorgeous sheep gallant shepherds
who led them, and then was accompanied by a laundry that washed; and a selling chorizo ​​sausage,
and a black Magus, which was subsequently followed beard white gold crown. For bringing up an
old woman who was brought in some part to flogging a guy for not knowing the lesson.

Celinina knowledgeable, so talking her cousins, all you need to good composition a birth, knew
that that work was incomplete because of the lack of two figures
very main: the mule and the ox.

She did not know what that meant that neither the mule ox but aware that all things were perfect,
and again demanded the attentive father the pair of animals that had been in Santa Cruz.

He promised to bring, and his heart was very firm intention not to return without both beasts
but that day, which was 23, the issues and tasks will be increased
so that no had a rest point.

Besides this, he sacase Heaven that the lottery, which had news of winning a lawsuit that two
loving friends pregnant you all morning ... finally, the father entered the house without the
mule, but without the beef.

Celinina showed great sorrow at not coming to complete his treasure
only two missing jewelry in it.

The father wanted to remedy its failure point, but the baby had been aggravated considerably
during the day the doctor came, and as his words were not reassuring nobody thought of oxen, but also
on mules.

The 24 decided not to move the poor man of the house. Celinina was a relief for a short time
so evident, that all hopes conceived, and full of joy, the father said, "I point to find that.
"

But like a wounded bird falls rapidly to soar to the top, and fell Celinina Honduras in an intense
fever. Stirring trembling arms and smothered in hot of the disease, the shaking to expel constrained
life. In the confusion of his delirium, and the churning waves of thought, floated, as the only
object saved of a disaster, the fixed idea of ​​desire that had not been satisfied, in that
coveted sighed one mule and ox, which is still continuing in a state
of hope.

The father went half mad, he ran through the streets, but in the middle of one of them stopped and
said: "Who thinks now of birth figures?"

And running here and there, up stairs, and rang bells, and opened
doors without stand a moment, until he had put together seven or eight
doctors, and took them to his house.

It was necessary save to Celinina.

V

But God did not want seven or eight (as the figure is not known to fixed point) pupils Aesculapius
contravene the sentence he was given, and Celinina was falling, falling more every hour, and
came to be despondent, burning, fighting with indescribable anguish,
as Butterfly has been hit and shakes the ground with broken wings.

Parents knelt beside her foolish eagerly, as if they wanted to look at the sheer force of stop
that there was going to suspend the rapid human disruption, and its encouragement renew the
breath of the poor martyr who vanished in a flash.

Sounded in the street zambombas drums and tambourines and happy snapping. Celinina opened eyes, which seemed
closed for ever, looked at his father, and his eyes and just murmur
that did not seem serious and language come to this world, his father
asked what he had not wanted to bring.

Pain pierced his father and mother wanted to deceive, to I had a joy in that moment of supreme
grief, and offering the turkeys, he said: - "Look, daughter of my soul, here's your mule, and
the little oxen. "

But Celinina, even running out, had enough clarity in their understanding to see that turkeys
were nothing more than turkeys, and graceful gesture rejected. This was followed with staring
at their parents, and both hands on the head pointing his sharp pains.

Little by little was extinguished in it that are rhythmic, which is the last vibration of life,
and finally all was silent, as silent machine clock stops, and was a pretty nice Celinina bulk,
inert and cold as marble, white and clear as the purified wax that burns altars.

Do you understand now the guilt of the father? Because Celinina about life, it would He traversed
the whole earth to collect all the oxen and all, absolutely all mules
in it.

The idea of ​​not having fulfilled that desire was innocent sword
sharp and cold that pierced his heart.

In vain the reason I wanted to tear it, but What was the reason, if he was so young then as he
slept in the coffin, and gave more importance to a toy to all the things of earth and sky?

VI

In the house were turned off in the end the rumors of despair, as if pain, penetrating in the soul,
which is their own home, shut the doors of the senses to be more alone and recreate itself.

It was "Good Night, and if everything was silent in the house recently visited sad death outside
on the streets of the city, and all the other houses, pleasant ringing Bullange of rude instruments
of music, and spokesman for kids and adults singing the Messiah. From the room where the child
was dead, the holy women who heard him company frightful din, that
through the upstairs floor came up to them, troubled in their grief
and devout meditation.

Up there, many young children, gathered the largest number big kids and happy parents and
aunts and uncles cheering, celebrating Easter, crazy joy at the most admirable figure was given
birth, and attentive to the fruit of toys and sweets in their leafy tree branches carrying a
spotlight with thousands of colorful lights.

There were times when the big bang up, seemed to tremble roof the
room, and that the poor dead woman was shaking in their blue box and
the lights all ranged, as if, on his way meant to imply they were
also something Peneque.

Of the three women who served, retired two, was one, and this, great feeling in your head weight,
no doubt due to the fatigue caused by many sleepless nights, touched his chest with his chin
and fell asleep.

The lights continued swinging and moving much, notwithstanding that no air entered the room.
You'd think invisible wings fluttered in the space occupied by the altar. Slots on Dress Celinina
also moved, and the leaves of artificial flowers over announced playful breeze or a very soft
hand. Celinina then opened his eyes.

Her black eyes filled the room with a look alive and eager to cast around and top to bottom. Immediately,
hands separated without rebel against the tape that bound, and closing both fists rubbed their
eyes, as is usual in children to wake up.

Then he sat up with fast-moving, without effort, and looking the ceiling began to laugh, but
his laughter, with our eyes, could not be heard.

The only rumor which is easily perceived bullanga wing was strongly agitated, as if all the
pigeons the world were coming and going in the mortuary and will rub their feathers with the
roof and walls.

Celinina stood up, arms extended upward, and to the point you were
born little wings short and white.

Beating the air with them, took wing and disappeared.

All remained the same: the lights burning, and pour copious streams of white wax on washers and
the images on the site itself, without moving your arm or leg or deploy his austere lips, the
woman calmly sunk in a dream that was saberle to glory, all remained the same, minus the blue
box, which had been emptied.

VII

Beautiful party tonight at the House of Lords -----!

The drums scream deafeningly the room. There is none to those gnarly guys understand that more
fun renouncing the infernal racket of that instrument of war. So that no human ear is in a state
of work the next day, add the invention of the drum Averno, called zambomba, whose noise resembles
Satan growls. Complete the symphony tambourine awful squeal calderetería which stirs old calmer
nerves. And But this discordant din no melody and no rhythm, more primitive than the music of the
wild, is happy in aquesta singular night, and has some distant celestial choir chant.

Birth is not a work of art in the eyes of adults, but children are so much beauty in the figures,
so mystical expression on the faces of them all, and property much
in their suits, they do not believe is out of the hands of men most
perfect work, and attributed to the peculiar industry of certain angels
dedicated to work for a living mud.

The portal of cork, imitating a Roman arch in ruins, is cute, and the creek represented by a
little mirror with green spots that mimic aquatic weeds and moss the banks, seems to run the table
below with placid murmur. The bridge where Pastors spend is such that has never been so similar
to the master stone on the contrary what happens in many modern works of our engineers, which
makes bridges stone that look like cardboard. The mountain that occupies the center be confused with
a piece of the Pyrenees, and its beautiful houses, smaller than the figures, and trees with
figurative evónimus twigs, leaves behind the very nature.

The plain is where the most beautiful and most characteristic figures, the laundresses who washed
in the stream, the paver and smugglers driving their herds, a leading civil guard two rogues prisoners,
knights riding in luxurious camel barouches next to a King Magician and Parrot the blind playing
guitar in a huddle where the shepherds browse have become the portal. For medium to medium,
a tram passes him just what the neighborhood of Salamanca, and as you have two rails and wheels,
every moment you are running from east to west to the astonishment
of the Black King, do not know what this devilish machine.

In front of the Portal is a lovely square, whose center is occupied
by a flask of fish and not far from where she sells a boy's pick,
and dance gently two nice.

The old selling fritters and chestnut on the corner are the funniest parts of this wonderful
village of mud, and preferably by themselves attract the eyes of the children crowd. Above all, this
little boy in a tattered hand has a lottery ticket, and the another robs the chestnuts out of the
basket nicely to Aunt Lambrijas ago cackle them all.

In short, the birth number one in Madrid is that of the house, one of the main and collected in their
classrooms to children nicest and most thoughtful of twenty streets around.

VIII

Well what about the tree? Consists of branches of oak and cedar. The solicitous friend of the
house has made with great difficulty, he states that he never left his hands so complete and perfect
work. You can not have outstanding gifts of their leaves. Are under the assumption of a little
boy was present, in greater number than the sands of the sea. Sweets wrapped in paper shells
Curly, mandarins, who are infants oranges, chestnuts tucked into blankets silver paper, boxes
containing confectionery homeopathic globules, various figurines
on foot and on horseback, as God hath created to be perfected what
then mayonnaise or sell it Scropp has been put there by a hand so
generous and skillful.

Lit that tree footlights life in such abundance that, as a guest
ratio of four years there are more lights than stars in the sky.

The joy of children swarm can not be compared to any human feeling: the joy ineffable heavenly
choirs in the presence of the Supreme Good and Beauty Addition. Superabundance satisfaction
almost makes them wise, and are as perplexed in seraphic rapture
with all the soul in his eyes, savoring in advance what they eat,
and swimming, as blessed angels, pure ether of things sweet and delicious,
sweet-smelling flowers and cinnamon, in the uncreated essence of the
game and treat.

IX

But suddenly felt a rumor that came from them. Everyone looked at the ceiling, and as did not
see anything, he looked from one to the other, laughing. Could hear loud murmur of wings brushing
against the wall and crashing into the ceiling. If you were blind,
would have believed that all pigeon pigeons of all the universe had
gone into the room. But they saw nothing, absolutely nothing.

Noticed,
yes, suddenly, something inexplicable and phenomenal. All of the Nativity
figurines moved, all without noise varied from site. The tram car
went up to the top of the mountains, and the Kings put the legs in
the creek. The turkeys were cast without permission in Portal, and
San Jose went all embarrassed, as if to know the origin of such strange
confusion. Afterwards, many figures were lying on the ground. If at
first the translations are made no mess, then put together a racket
such that there seemed to walk one hundred thousand plodding hands
to mix it up. It was a miniature universal cataclysm.
Physical materials may be manipulated with scientific apparatus, but the materials may be disassociated
in themselves and in the ways in which they are handled, from the materials and processes used
out of school. The problems dealt with may be only problems of science: problems, that is,
which would occur to one already initiated in the science of the subject. Our attention may
be devoted to getting skill in technical manipulation without reference to the connection of
laboratory exercises with a problem belonging to subject matter. There is sometimes a ritual
of laboratory instruction as well as of heathen religion. 1 It has been mentioned, incidentally,
that scientific statements, or logical form, implies the use of signs or symbols. The statement
applies, of course, to all use of language. But in the vernacular, the mind proceeds directly
from the symbol to the thing signified. Association with familiar material is so close that
the mind does not pause upon the sign. The signs are intended only to stand for things and
acts. But scientific terminology has an additional use. It is designed, as we have seen, not
to stand for the things directly in their practical use in experience, but for the things placed
in a cognitive system. Ultimately, of course, they denote the things of our common sense acquaintance.
But immediately they do not designate them in their common context, but translated into terms
of scientific inquiry. Atoms, molecules, chemical formulae, the mathematical propositions in
the study of physics--all these have primarily an intellectual value and only indirectly an
empirical value. They represent instruments for the carrying on of science. As in the case
of other tools, their significance can be learned only by use. We cannot procure understanding
of their meaning by pointing to things, but only by pointing to their work when they are employed
as part of the technique of knowledge. Even the circle, square, etc., of geometry exhibit a
difference from the squares and circles of familiar acquaintance, and the further one proceeds
in mathematical science the greater the remoteness from the everyday empirical thing. Qualities
which do not count for the pursuit of knowledge about spatial relations are left out; those
which are important for this purpose are accentuated. If one carries his study far enough,
he will find even the properties which are significant for spatial knowledge giving way to
those which facilitate knowledge of other things--perhaps a knowledge of the general relations
of number. There will be nothing in the conceptual definitions even to suggest spatial form,
size, or direction. This does not mean that they are unreal mental inventions, but it indicates
that direct physical qualities have been transmuted into tools for a special end--the end of
intellectual organization. In every machine the primary state of material has been modified
by subordinating it to use for a purpose. Not the stuff in its original form but in its adaptation
to an end is important. No one would have a knowledge of a machine who could enumerate all
the materials entering into its structure, but only he who knew their uses and could tell why
they are employed as they are. In like fashion one has a knowledge of mathematical conceptions
only when he sees the problems in which they function and their specific utility in dealing
with these problems. "Knowing" the definitions, rules, formulae, etc., is like knowing the
names of parts of a machine without knowing what they do. In one case, as in the other, the
meaning, or intellectual content, is what the element accomplishes in the system of which it
is a member.

2. Science and Social Progress. Assuming that the development of the direct knowledge gained
in occupations of social interest is carried to a perfected logical form, the question arises
as to its place in experience. In general, the reply is that science marks the emancipation
of mind from devotion to customary purposes and makes possible the systematic pursuit of new
ends. It is the agency of progress in action. Progress is sometimes thought of as consisting
in getting nearer to ends already sought. But this is a minor form of progress, for it requires
only improvement of the means of action or technical advance. More important modes of progress
consist in enriching prior purposes and in forming new ones. Desires are not a fixed quantity,
nor does progress mean only an increased amount of satisfaction. With increased culture and
new mastery of nature, new desires, demands for new qualities of satisfaction, show themselves,
for intelligence perceives new possibilities of action. This projection of new possibilities
leads to search for new means of execution, and progress takes place; while the discovery of
objects not already used leads to suggestion of new ends.

That science is the chief means of perfecting control of means of action is witnessed by the
great crop of inventions which followed intellectual command of the secrets of nature. The
wonderful transformation of production and distribution known as the industrial revolution
is the fruit of experimental science. Railways, steamboats, electric motors, telephone and
telegraph, automobiles, aeroplanes and dirigibles are conspicuous evidences of the application
of science in life. But none of them would be of much importance without the thousands of less
sensational inventions by means of which natural science has been rendered tributary to our
daily life.

It must be admitted that to a considerable extent the progress thus procured has been only
technical: it has provided more efficient means for satisfying preexistent desires, rather
than modified the quality of human purposes. There is, for example, no modern civilization
which is the equal of Greek culture in all respects. Science is still too recent to have been
absorbed into imaginative and emotional disposition. Men move more swiftly and surely to the
realization of their ends, but their ends too largely remain what they were prior to scientific
enlightenment. This fact places upon education the responsibility of using science in a way
to modify the habitual attitude of imagination and feeling, not leave it just an extension
of our physical arms and legs.

The advance of science has already modified men's thoughts of the purposes and goods of life
to a sufficient extent to give some idea of the nature of this responsibility and the ways
of meeting it. Science taking effect in human activity has broken down physical barriers which
formerly separated men; it has immensely widened the area of intercourse. It has brought about
interdependence of interests on an enormous scale. Science has familiarized men with the idea
of development, taking effect practically in persistent gradual amelioration of the estate
of our common humanity.

The problem of an educational use of science is then to create an intelligence pregnant with
belief in the possibility of the direction of human affairs by itself. The method of science
engrained through education in habit means emancipation from rule of thumb and from the routine
generated by rule of thumb procedure. The word empirical in its ordinary use does not mean
"connected with experiment," but rather crude and unrational. Under the influence of conditions
created by the non-existence of experimental science, experience was opposed in all the ruling
philosophies of the past to reason and the truly rational. Empirical knowledge meant the knowledge
accumulated by a multitude of past instances without intelligent insight into the principles
of any of them. To say that medicine was empirical meant that it was not scientific, but a
mode of practice based upon accumulated observations of diseases and of remedies used more
or less at random. Such a mode of practice is of necessity happy-go-lucky; success depends
upon chance. It lends itself to deception and quackery. Industry that is "empirically" controlled
forbids constructive applications of intelligence; it depends upon following in an imitative
slavish manner the models set in the past. Experimental science means the possibility of using
past experiences as the servant, not the master, of mind. It means that reason operates within
experience, not beyond it, to give it an intelligent or reasonable quality. Science is experience
becoming rational. The effect of science is thus to change men's idea of the nature and inherent
possibilities of experience. By the same token, it changes the idea and the operation of reason.
Instead of being something beyond experience, remote, aloof, concerned with a sublime region
that has nothing to do with the experienced facts of life, it is found indigenous in experience:--the
factor by which past experiences are purified and rendered into tools for discovery and advance.

The term "abstract" has a rather bad name in popular speech, being used to signify not only
that which is abstruse and hard to understand, but also that which is far away from life. But
abstraction is an indispensable trait in reflective direction of activity. Situations do not
literally repeat themselves. Habit treats new occurrences as if they were identical with old
ones; it suffices, accordingly, when the different or novel element is negligible for present
purposes. But when the new element requires especial attention, random reaction is the sole
recourse unless abstraction is brought into play. For abstraction deliberately selects from
the subject matter of former experiences that which is thought helpful in dealing with the
new. It signifies conscious transfer of a meaning embedded in past experience for use in a
new one. It is the very artery of intelligence, of the intentional rendering of one experience
available for guidance of another.

Science carries on this working over of prior subject matter on a large scale. It aims to free
an experience from all which is purely personal and strictly immediate; it aims to detach whatever
it has in common with the subject matter of other experiences, and which, being common, may
be saved for further use. It is, thus, an indispensable factor in social progress. In any experience
just as it occurs there is much which, while it may be of precious import to the individual
implicated in the experience, is peculiar and unreduplicable. From the standpoint of science,
this material is accidental, while the features which are widely shared are essential. Whatever
is unique in the situation, since dependent upon the peculiarities of the individual and the
coincidence of circumstance, is not available for others; so that unless what is shared is
abstracted and fixed by a suitable symbol, practically all the value of the experience may
perish in its passing. But abstraction and the use of terms to record what is abstracted put
the net value of individual experience at the permanent disposal of mankind. No one can foresee
in detail when or how it may be of further use. The man of science in developing his abstractions
is like a manufacturer of tools who does not know who will use them nor when. But intellectual
tools are indefinitely more flexible in their range of adaptation than other mechanical tools.

Generalization is the counterpart of abstraction. It is the functioning of an abstraction in
its application to a new concrete experience,--its extension to clarify and direct new situations.
Reference to these possible applications is necessary in order that the abstraction may be
fruitful, instead of a barren formalism ending in itself. Generalization is essentially a social
device. When men identified their interests exclusively with the concerns of a narrow group,
their generalizations were correspondingly restricted. The viewpoint did not permit a wide
and free survey. Men's thoughts were tied down to a contracted space and a short time,--limited
to their own established customs as a measure of all possible values. Scientific abstraction
and generalization are equivalent to taking the point of view of any man, whatever his location
in time and space. While this emancipation from the conditions and episodes of concrete experiences
accounts for the remoteness, the "abstractness," of science, it also accounts for its wide
and free range of fruitful novel applications in practice. Terms and propositions record, fix,
and convey what is abstracted. A meaning detached from a given experience cannot remain hanging
in the air. It must acquire a local habitation. Names give abstract meanings a physical locus
and body. Formulation is thus not an after-thought or by-product; it is essential to the completion
of the work of thought. Persons know many things which they cannot express, but such knowledge
remains practical, direct, and personal. An individual can use it for himself; he may be able
to act upon it with efficiency. Artists and executives often have their knowledge in this state.
But it is personal, untransferable, and, as it were, instinctive. To formulate the significance
of an experience a man must take into conscious account the experiences of others. He must
try to find a standpoint which includes the experience of others as well as his own. Otherwise
his communication cannot be understood. He talks a language which no one else knows. While
literary art furnishes the supreme successes in stating of experiences so that they are vitally
significant to others, the vocabulary of science is designed, in another fashion, to express
the meaning of experienced things in symbols which any one will know who studies the science.
Aesthetic formulation reveals and enhances the meaning of experiences one already has; scientific
formulation supplies one with tools for constructing new experiences with transformed meanings.

To sum up: Science represents the office of intelligence, in projection and control of new
experiences, pursued systematically, intentionally, and on a scale due to freedom from limitations
of habit. It is the sole instrumentality of conscious, as distinct from accidental, progress.
And if its generality, its remoteness from individual conditions, confer upon it a certain
technicality and aloofness, these qualities are very different from those of merely speculative
theorizing. The latter are in permanent dislocation from practice; the former are temporarily
detached for the sake of wider and freer application in later concrete action. There is a kind
of idle theory which is antithetical to practice; but genuinely scientific theory falls within
practice as the agency of its expansion and its direction to new possibilities.

3. Naturalism and Humanism in Education. There exists an educational tradition which opposes
science to literature and history in the curriculum. The quarrel between the representatives
of the two interests is easily explicable historically. Literature and language and a literary
philosophy were entrenched in all higher institutions of learning before experimental science
came into being. The latter had naturally to win its way. No fortified and protected interest
readily surrenders any monopoly it may possess. But the assumption, from whichever side, that
language and literary products are exclusively humanistic in quality, and that science is purely
physical in import, is a false notion which tends to cripple the educational use of both studies.
Human life does not occur in a vacuum, nor is nature a mere stage setting for the enactment
of its drama (ante, p. 211). Man's life is bound up in the processes of nature; his career,
for success or defeat, depends upon the way in which nature enters it. To be aware of the medium
in which social intercourse goes on, and of the means and obstacles to its progressive development
is to be in command of a knowledge which is thoroughly humanistic in quality. One who is ignorant
of the history of science is ignorant of the struggles by which mankind has passed from routine
and caprice, from superstitious subjection to nature, from efforts to use it magically, to
intellectual self-possession. That science may be taught as a set of formal and technical exercises
is only too true. This happens whenever information about the world is made an end in itself.
The failure of such instruction to procure culture is not, however, evidence of the antithesis
of natural knowledge to humanistic concern, but evidence of a wrong educational attitude. Dislike
to employ scientific knowledge as it functions in men's occupations is itself a survival of
an aristocratic culture. The notion that "applied" knowledge is somehow less worthy than "pure"
knowledge, was natural to a society in which all useful work was performed by slaves and serfs,
and in which industry was controlled by the models set by custom rather than by intelligence.
Science, or the highest knowing, was then identified with pure theorizing, apart from all application
in the uses of life; and knowledge relating to useful arts suffered the stigma attaching to
the classes who engaged in them (See below, Ch. XIX). The idea of science thus generated persisted
after science had itself adopted the appliances of the arts, using them for the production
of knowledge, and after the rise of democracy. Taking theory just as theory, however, that
which concerns humanity is of more significance for man than that which concerns a merely physical
world. In adopting the criterion of knowledge laid down by a literary culture, aloof from the
practical needs of the mass of men, the educational advocates of scientific education put themselves
at a strategic disadvantage. So far as they adopt the idea of science appropriate to its experimental
method and to the movements of a democratic and industrial society, they have no difficulty
in showing that natural science is more humanistic than an alleged humanism which bases its
educational schemes upon the specialized interests of a leisure class. For, as we have already
stated, humanistic studies when set in opposition to study of nature are hampered. They tend
to reduce themselves to exclusively literary and linguistic studies, which in turn tend to
shrink to "the classics," to languages no longer spoken. For modern languages may evidently
be put to use, and hence fall under the ban. It would be hard to find anything in history more
ironical than the educational practices which have identified the "humanities" exclusively
with a knowledge of Greek and Latin. Greek and Roman art and institutions made such important
contributions to our civilization that there should always be the amplest opportunities for
making their acquaintance. But to regard them as par excellence the humane studies involves
a deliberate neglect of the possibilities of the subject matter which is accessible in education
to the masses, and tends to cultivate a narrow snobbery: that of a learned class whose insignia
are the accidents of exclusive opportunity. 

A thought of this kind happening in the agitation caused by the passions, produces a effect similar
to a word judicious, incisive and penetrating, launched amid turbulent meeting. How often is
noted that a look expressive change the state of mind one of the bystanders, moderate or drowning
a frenzied passion! What has expressed that look? nothing more than a memory of decorum, a consideration
to the place or people, a friendly reproach, a delicate irony, nothing more than an appeal to common
sense the same as a sport of passion, and this has been sufficient for the passion subsides.
The effect of another gives us producírnoslo why we could not ourselves, if not equality, at least approximation?

L.
§

Perpetual childhood of man.

Little enough to lose the man, but not take much to correct some defects. Is weaker than bad,
far from satanic stubbornness that does not deviate evil never once embraced, on the contrary,
both good and evil and embraces leaves with ease. Is a child into old age, introduce themselves
with all the seriousness possible, but in the end it is childish to himself in many things and
ashamed. It said that no great big man seemed to his valet, that contains much truth. And it
saw the man closely, you discover the little things that debase. But more things he knows himself
that his valet, and this is still less large their own eyes, for this even in his prime, you
need to cover with a veil of childish that cherishes in his heart.

Children laugh and frolic and gambol, and then moan and rage and cry, often without knowing why:
do not do the same to her as an adult? To give children a boost of its organization the good or
bad state of health, the provision that affects atmospheric pleasant or unpleasant; disappearing in these cases
changes the state of their minds: do not remember the time before, or think in the next, only governed
by the posters that are currently experiencing. Does not that same man a thousand times more serious,
more serious and judicious?

§ LI.

Moving D. Nicasio in a few hours.

Don Nicasio is a man of advanced age, calm and mature trial, full of knowledge, experience, and
rarely carried away from the shock of the moment. Everything weighs in a healthy balance of reason,
and will not let this weight bearing for a dram passions of any kind. He speaks of a very serious
undertaking for which has its world practice, and his understanding at that particular kind
of business. D. Nicasio is at the disposal of the proponent, has no difficulty in fully enter
into the business, and even engage in it a part of his fortune. Quite sure not to lose, if obstacles,
do not give care, he knows how to remove them, if there are powerful opponents, Don Nicasio
not make a dent. Other feats of riding but has been carried out, much business but has had
to deal with thorny, more powerful rivals had to overcome. Embedded the idea that flatters, is expressed
with ease and speed, vivid gestures with his eyes is very expressive, his youthful appearance,
would seem to have returned to their twenty-five Aprils if a few
gray hairs poking out one side of the prototype does not reveal treacherously
trophies year.

The business is concluded, lacks some detail; quedais called to round in another interview, tomorrow?
no sir, no delays, no activity of the consent gift Nicasio, we must end it all today, in the afternoon.
D. Nicasio has withdrawn his home, or in his person or in your family,
or any of their stuff has been no accident unpleasant.

It is the appointed hour, acudís on time, and ye in the presence of the hero of the morning.
D. Nicasio is something broken in her dress, thanks to heat that
suffocates him.

Middle tempted on the couch, I returned the greeting with a loving
effort, but with obvious signs of fastidiosa lassitude.

- Let us
see, Mr. D. Nicasio, if we were finally agreed.

- Time we speak ....
Don Nicasio answers, and his face contracted with samples of boredom.

-
As V. I have been quoted for this evening .....

- Yes, but ....

-
As V. like.

- Now you see, but we need much thought, what do I know
!....

- What is difficult, I know that there, only to see him to
V. so cheerful this morning, I confess, all came to and level road.

-
Encouraging if ..... and I'm still ..... yet, however, should not
take too much hurry ..... Finally we'll talk, he adds, with a statement
of who you want not commit.

Don Nicasio is another, express your feelings, none of the daring,
the activity of the morning, no project so easy to run, then the obstacles
mattered little now are almost insurmountable meant nothing rivals
are now invincible.

What happened?

Have you been given to D. Nicasio other news? has not seen anyone.

Have you thought about the business? not more than he had agreed.

What has happened since to cause so great revolution in spirit, changing their way of seeing
things, and so pitifully breaking its impetus youth?

No, the explanation for this is simple, do not look great causes are very small. First, now the heat
is atrocious, which certainly is far from airing of a fresh breeze
as happened in the morning; D. Nicasio is deeply depressed, the time
is heavy, the sky is overcast and looks threatening storm.

The food was also something indigestion, and sleep for a nap was too short, and not without some
nightmare. Do you want more? Are not these reasons powerful enough to disrupt the spirit of a
serious man and change their views? Despite all appointments, who has led you to his home under a
constellation so unhappy?

This is the man, the least thing puzzled him, he makes another. Attached to a body spirit subject
to a thousand different impressions, which happen so quickly and received with equal ease the
movement of the leaf of a tree, participates in a way that inconstancy and variety, moving
too often to objects that only the changes he has experienced.

§ LII.

Feelings by themselves are bad rule of conduct.

The above prove impossible to direct the behavior of man by just a feeling; and literature of
our time, how little is concerned with communicating ideas of reason and moral and apparently
does not intend to arouse feelings but forgets the nature of man, and causes a disease of immense
importance.

Giving the man at the mercy of one sentiment, is to throw a ship without
a pilot in the middle wave.

This equates to proclaim the infallibility of the passions, to say: "Always work instinctively,
blindly obedient to every movement of your heart, "this amounts to deprive man of his intellect
and free will, to become a mere instrument its sensitivity.

It has been said that great thoughts come from the heart, also could be added to the heart out
big bugs, big raves, big extravaganzas, major crimes. Heart goes out everything is a superb harp
bouncing all kinds of sounds from the horrendous infernal din of the caves to the most delicate
harmony of the celestial regions.

The man who has no other guide than his heart, is the plaything of a thousand different inclinations,
and often contradictory: a pen lijerísima through a countryside where prevailing winds, has
no more varied directions and irregular. Who is able to count or classify the myriad of feelings
that occur in our chest, in a very short time?

Who does not has noted the astonishing ease with which one goes from the fans live to work,
to a almost insuperable repugnance? Who has not felt sympathy or antipathy, to the simple presence
a person without any reason that may be brought it, and without the offer made hereinafter further
grounds that impression? Who has not admired repeated sometimes be transformed in a few moments,
from the folding equilibrium of the boldness to timidity or vice-versa, without there being
any ostensible cause mediated? Who ignores the changes that feelings suffer with age, with the
difference of state, social status, family relationships, health, climate, season, atmosphere?
All as it affects our ideas, our senses, our body, in any manner whatsoever, all adjust our feelings,
and hence the amazing inconsistency that is evident in the are abandoned to all the impulses
of passion, hence the volatility of the organizations too sensitive, if they have worked hard
to master.

The passions have been given to man as a means to awaken and put in motion as tools to serve
your actions, but not as directors of his spirit, not as guides for their behavior. It is sometimes
said that the heart does not deceive; terrible mistake! What our life is but a tissue of illusions with
which the heart deceives us?

If ever we succeed, surrendering blindly to what he inspires us, how many and how many us astray!
Do you know why is attributed to heart the instinctive wisdom? because it calls attention
extremely one of his hits, when we know that there are so many its mistakes, that we cause strange
guess surprise to see him through his blindness, when there are so many times you find folly. For this
we recall his exceptional success, in favor of this will forgive all their mistakes, and we honor
him with foresight and tact can not own or possess.

The founding of the moral sentiment, is to destroy: arranging his conduct to the inspirations of feeling,
is doomed to not follow any set, and to have it very often immoral and fatal. The trend in literature
which is currently in vogue in France, which unfortunately also introduced
in our Spain is deify the passions and the passions deified are extravagance,
immorality, corruption, crime.

§ LIII.

No sense impressions, but moral and right.

Human behavior and with respect to moral as to what is useful, should
not govern impressions but by immutable rules, morally, by the maxims
of eternal truth as useful advice for the right reason.

The man is a God in whom all things are sanctified just to be in it, the impressions it receives,
are modifications of nature that do not alter the eternal laws, one thing just keeps justice,
for being nasty; something unfair, please him, no washing of injustice. The implacable enemy
avenging dagger plunges into the bowels of his victim, he feels in his heart a fierce pleasure,
and its action is no less a crime, the sister of charity that assists the patient, which soothes
and comforts, more than once suffered atrocious tortures, but why not stop its action be heroically
virtuous.

Apart from the moral, and attending to what is useful, things need to be treated under to what
they are, not what affect us, the truth is not essentially on our
impressions but objects, when we put those opposed to these, we go
astray.

The world is not the real world of poets and novelists: it must be considered and treated as
is itself, not sentimental, not fantastic, no dreamer, but positive, practical, prosaic.

§ LIV.

A good feeling, the exaggeration makes it bad.

Religion does not stifle the feelings, only moderates and directs, the caution does not reject
the help of warm passions, just beware of its dominance. Harmony has not to produce in humans
with the simultaneous development of the passions, but with its repression; counterweight which are
not only working to stop the other passions, but principally reason and morality. The same opposition
of good to the evil inclinations, no longer healthy, when she presided as mistress of reason,
for the good inclinations not good but as reason directs and moderates: left to themselves, are
exaggerated, are bad.

A brave charge of a job is dangerous: the risk grows by the hour, to around their comrades are falling:
the enemy ever closer, there is scarcely hope sustained, and the order to withdraw is not forthcoming.
Discouragement comes a moment in the heart the brave, "to die without any fruit? The duty of discipline
and honor be extended " to a useless sacrifice? Would not it be better to abandon the post,
excuse in the eyes of the head imperative with the need? "No, answers his generous heart, that is
cowardice that cover with the name of prudence.

What would your colleagues, your boss, how do you know? "Ignominy or death? for death, without
hesitation, death. "

Can you blame the reflection that the brave officer has sought to sustain itself, against the temptation
to cowardice? This desire of honor, this horror to the ignominy of going through coward, has
not been in it a feeling? yes, but a feeling noble, generous, with which strength and influence
has strengthened against the wiles of the afraid, and has done his duty. That passion led to an
object as well, has produced excellent results, perhaps without it there would have been achieved:
in those critical moments, terrible, that the noise the cannon, the shouts of the enemy nearby,
and the cries of dying comrades, began to enter the fear in her chest,
the whole reason one might have succumbed, but called to his aid to
a passion more powerful than the fear of death: the feeling of honor,
the shame of appearing cowardly, and reason has triumphed, the duty
has been fulfilled.

The order came to retreat, the officer meets his body, having lost in the post fatal to most
of his soldiers .-- I had it to V. dead, a jest told of his friends will not have V. Forgot the
parapet .-- The officer believes outraged calls to Heat a satisfaction and to mocking the few
hours the rash has ceased to exist. The same feeling a little before boost a heroic action, just
to cause a murder. The honor, shame to spend a coward, had held the brave, to the point of making
despise his life: honor, shame to spend a coward, have stained their hands with blood of a
reckless friend.

The passion directed by reason rose to heroism; delivered to the blind impetus has been degraded
to the crime.

The emulation is a powerful feeling, excellent preservative against laziness, against cowardice,
and against many passions oppose useful exercise of our faculties. Of It takes the teacher
to encourage students, it uses the parent to restrain the evil tendencies of some of their children,
it is worth a captain for obtain from their subordinates, perseverance, courage, heroic deeds.
The desire to advance in comply with the duty to carry out big business, despite not painful
fact from us all we could and we had the blush of seeing exceeded by those whom we could overcome
feelings are very fair, noble, excellent us forward on the right
path.

In them there is nothing reprehensible, they are the source of many virtuous actions, resolutions
sublime, amazing exploits.

But if that same feeling is exaggerated, aromatic nectar, sweet, comforting, it is converted
in deadly humor that flows from the mouth of a poisonous reptile, the emulation is envy. The
feeling in the background is the same, but has led to a too high point, the desire in advance
has become a burning thirst, grief of being exceeded, is already a grudge against which exceeds,
that there is no rivalry that brother very well with friendship more intimate, which sought
to soften the humiliation of the vanquished samples lavishing affection and sincere praise
for their efforts; than happy to have won the laurel, he hid not to hurt the pride of others, is
itself a real despair, there is anger not for lack of progress themselves, but by the view of
outsiders, there is real hate leads to that, there is a passionate
desire for lowering the merit of his works, is blasphemy, is the disdain
with which masks a bad compressed fury, there is a sardonic smile,
which scarcely enough to cover the torments of the soul.

Nothing more conformable to reason that feeling of self-worth, which is exalted holy when brutal
passions excite a shameful action, which recalls the holy man of their duties, and will not
consent to disgrace missing them the feeling that inspires you the attitude that you should
take, according to the position they occupy the feeling that fills majesty the king's countenance
and manners, which gives the face and manners of a pontiff holy anointing gravity and August, which shines
in the eyes of fire of a great captain and his FURTHER RESOLVED, bold, stunning, the feeling
that to the joy that does not let broken, or the gloom ignoble misfortune, that points to
the opportunity of a prudent silence, or suggests a decent word and sign, which separates the friendliness
of the trivial familiarity openness of abandonment, the naturalness of the rude manners of freedom,
that feeling in order to invigorate the man with no harden, not soften him relax, which makes
it flexible without inconsistency, and continuing without stubbornness. But that same feeling,
if not moderate and directed by reason, pride is the pride that swells the heart, upright forehead
gives to the countenance an offensive aspect and manners to an irritating affectation between ridiculous;
the pride that fades, making it impossible to advance, which raises obstacles to himself in
the execution, which inspires great evils, which causes the hatred
and contempt, makes unbearable.

What more reasonable sense that the desire to acquire or maintain the necessary equipment for
care own, and those whose care or charge a duty affection! He warns against extravagance, away
from the excesses of a licentious life preserves, inspires love to sobriety, temperance in all
desires, liking to work. But this feeling led to exaggeration, requires fasting that God does
not accept, cold in winter, heat in summer, poor health care, abandonment disease, mortified with
deprivation family, denies any favor to his friends, close your hand to the poor, cruelly hardening
the heart for all sorts of misfortunes, tormented with suspicions, fears, anxieties, prolongs
vigils, begets insomnia, pursues and agitated by the presence of
robbers spectra the brief moments of sleep, making it unable to get
break

The rich miser in the narrow bed And wake up sweating with
terror.

    
    

See how much truth because with them I said that the exaggeration of good feelings makes bad,
that feeling alone is a safer guide, and often dangerous. The reason is that must guide according
to the eternal principles of morality, the reason is who should be routed even in the field of
utility. For this man never takes too self-knowledge, no effort is of more moral approach to acquire
that and successful, who teaches us the practical truth, the truth must prevail to all acts
of our lives.

Things judged or passed upon have to be estimated in relation to some third thing, some further
end. With respect to that, they are means, or instrumental values.

We may imagine a man who at one time thoroughly enjoys converse with his friends, at another
the hearing of a symphony; at another the eating of his meals; at another the reading of a
book; at another the earning of money, and so on. As an appreciative realization, each of these
is an intrinsic value. It occupies a particular place in life; it serves its own end, which
cannot be supplied by a substitute. There is no question of comparative value, and hence none
of valuation. Each is the specific good which it is, and that is all that can be said. In its
own place, none is a means to anything beyond itself. But there may arise a situation in which
they compete or conflict, in which a choice has to be made. Now comparison comes in. Since
a choice has to be made, we want to know the respective claims of each competitor. What is
to be said for it? What does it offer in comparison with, as balanced over against, some other
possibility? Raising these questions means that a particular good is no longer an end in itself,
an intrinsic good. For if it were, its claims would be incomparable, imperative. The question
is now as to its status as a means of realizing something else, which is then the invaluable
of that situation. If a man has just eaten, or if he is well fed generally and the opportunity
to hear music is a rarity, he will probably prefer the music to eating. In the given situation
that will render the greater contribution. If he is starving, or if he is satiated with music
for the time being, he will naturally judge food to have the greater worth. In the abstract
or at large, apart from the needs of a particular situation in which choice has to be made,
there is no such thing as degrees or order of value. Certain conclusions follow with respect
to educational values. We cannot establish a hierarchy of values among studies. It is futile
to attempt to arrange them in an order, beginning with one having least worth and going on
to that of maximum value. In so far as any study has a unique or irreplaceable function in
experience, in so far as it marks a characteristic enrichment of life, its worth is intrinsic
or incomparable. Since education is not a means to living, but is identical with the operation
of living a life which is fruitful and inherently significant, the only ultimate value which
can be set up is just the process of living itself. And this is not an end to which studies
and activities are subordinate means; it is the whole of which they are ingredients. And what
has been said about appreciation means that every study in one of its aspects ought to have
just such ultimate significance. It is true of arithmetic as it is of poetry that in some place
and at some time it ought to be a good to be appreciated on its own account--just as an enjoyable
experience, in short. If it is not, then when the time and place come for it to be used as
a means or instrumentality, it will be in just that much handicapped. Never having been realized
or appreciated for itself, one will miss something of its capacity as a resource for other ends.

It equally follows that when we compare studies as to their values, that is, treat them as
means to something beyond themselves, that which controls their proper valuation is found in
the specific situation in which they are to be used. The way to enable a student to apprehend
the instrumental value of arithmetic is not to lecture him upon the benefit it will be to him
in some remote and uncertain future, but to let him discover that success in something he is
interested in doing depends upon ability to use number.

It also follows that the attempt to distribute distinct sorts of value among different studies
is a misguided one, in spite of the amount of time recently devoted to the undertaking. Science
for example may have any kind of value, depending upon the situation into which it enters as
a means. To some the value of science may be military; it may be an instrument in strengthening
means of offense or defense; it may be technological, a tool for engineering; or it may be
commercial--an aid in the successful conduct of business; under other conditions, its worth
may be philanthropic--the service it renders in relieving human suffering; or again it may
be quite conventional--of value in establishing one's social status as an "educated" person.
As matter of fact, science serves all these purposes, and it would be an arbitrary task to
try to fix upon one of them as its "real" end. All that we can be sure of educationally is
that science should be taught so as to be an end in itself in the lives of students--something
worth while on account of its own unique intrinsic contribution to the experience of life.
Primarily it must have "appreciation value." If we take something which seems to be at the
opposite pole, like poetry, the same sort of statement applies. It may be that, at the present
time, its chief value is the contribution it makes to the enjoyment of leisure. But that may
represent a degenerate condition rather than anything necessary. Poetry has historically been
allied with religion and morals; it has served the purpose of penetrating the mysterious depths
of things. It has had an enormous patriotic value. Homer to the Greeks was a Bible, a textbook
of morals, a history, and a national inspiration. In any case, it may be said that an education
which does not succeed in making poetry a resource in the business of life as well as in its
leisure, has something the matter with it--or else the poetry is artificial poetry.

The same considerations apply to the value of a study or a topic of a study with reference
to its motivating force. Those responsible for planning and teaching the course of study should
have grounds for thinking that the studies and topics included furnish both direct increments
to the enriching of lives of the pupils and also materials which they can put to use in other
concerns of direct interest. Since the curriculum is always getting loaded down with purely
inherited traditional matter and with subjects which represent mainly the energy of some influential
person or group of persons in behalf of something dear to them, it requires constant inspection,
criticism, and revision to make sure it is accomplishing its purpose. Then there is always
the probability that it represents the values of adults rather than those of children and youth,
or those of pupils a generation ago rather than those of the present day. Hence a further need
for a critical outlook and survey. But these considerations do not mean that for a subject
to have motivating value to a pupil (whether intrinsic or instrumental) is the same thing as
for him to be aware of the value, or to be able to tell what the study is good for.

In the first place, as long as any topic makes an immediate appeal, it is not necessary to
ask what it is good for. This is a question which can be asked only about instrumental values.
Some goods are not good for anything; they are just goods. Any other notion leads to an absurdity.
For we cannot stop asking the question about an instrumental good, one whose value lies in
its being good for something, unless there is at some point something intrinsically good, good
for itself. To a hungry, healthy child, food is a good of the situation; we do not have to
bring him to consciousness of the ends subserved by food in order to supply a motive to eat.
The food in connection with his appetite is a motive. The same thing holds of mentally eager
pupils with respect to many topics. Neither they nor the teacher could possibly foretell with
any exactness the purposes learning is to accomplish in the future; nor as long as the eagerness
continues is it advisable to try to specify particular goods which are to come of it. The proof
of a good is found in the fact that the pupil responds; his response is use. His response to
the material shows that the subject functions in his life. It is unsound to urge that, say,
Latin has a value per se in the abstract, just as a study, as a sufficient justification for
teaching it. But it is equally absurd to argue that unless teacher or pupil can point out some
definite assignable future use to which it is to be put, it lacks justifying value. When pupils
are genuinely concerned in learning Latin, that is of itself proof that it possesses value.
The most which one is entitled to ask in such cases is whether in view of the shortness of
time, there are not other things of intrinsic value which in addition have greater instrumental
value.

This brings us to the matter of instrumental values--topics studied because of some end beyond
themselves. If a child is ill and his appetite does not lead him to eat when food is presented,
or if his appetite is perverted so that he prefers candy to meat and vegetables, conscious
reference to results is indicated. He needs to be made conscious of consequences as a justification
of the positive or negative value of certain objects. Or the state of things may be normal
enough, and yet an individual not be moved by some matter because he does not grasp how his
attainment of some intrinsic good depends upon active concern with what is presented. In such
cases, it is obviously the part of wisdom to establish consciousness of connection. In general
what is desirable is that a topic be presented in such a way that it either have an immediate
value, and require no justification, or else be perceived to be a means of achieving something
of intrinsic value. An instrumental value then has the intrinsic value of being a means to
an end. It may be questioned whether some of the present pedagogical interest in the matter
of values of studies is not either excessive or else too narrow. Sometimes it appears to be
a labored effort to furnish an apologetic for topics which no longer operate to any purpose,
direct or indirect, in the lives of pupils. At other times, the reaction against useless lumber
seems to have gone to the extent of supposing that no subject or topic should be taught unless
some quite definite future utility can be pointed out by those making the course of study or
by the pupil himself, unmindful of the fact that life is its own excuse for being; and that
definite utilities which can be pointed out are themselves justified only because they increase
the experienced content of life itself. 3. The Segregation and Organization of Values. It is
of course possible to classify in a general way the various valuable phases of life. In order
to get a survey of aims sufficiently wide (See ante, p. 110) to give breadth and flexibility
to the enterprise of education, there is some advantage in such a classification. But it is
a great mistake to regard these values as ultimate ends to which the concrete satisfactions
of experience are subordinate. They are nothing but generalizations, more or less adequate,
of concrete goods. Health, wealth, efficiency, sociability, utility, culture, happiness itself
are only abstract terms which sum up a multitude of particulars. To regard such things as standards
for the valuation of concrete topics and process of education is to subordinate to an abstraction
the concrete facts from which the abstraction is derived. They are not in any true sense standards
of valuation; these are found, as we have previously seen, in the specific realizations which
form tastes and habits of preference. They are, however, of significance as points of view
elevated above the details of life whence to survey the field and see how its constituent details
are distributed, and whether they are well proportioned. No classification can have other than
a provisional validity. The following may prove of some help. 

     Angelina.

PS - Watch out not to write! Here he might not go back to thinking about you. "

XXXVIII

Angelina's letter to my soul was saddened as the ray of sun that dissipates in valleys mists
and banks left by the storm. I was happy, happy, happy and proud to be loved. Something like a breath
of spring winds flooded my soul and my unconscious came to revive heart.

I did not pick me up without writing prior to Linilla. Lay all around me. Through the window
wide open, came the scents of the garden, the water flowed silently down the drain pylon, and from
time to time, the station agent florida, heralded a goldfinch his loving serenade.

At midnight I dropped the pen, and read and reread my letter, six sheets written by the four
veneers.

Discouragement prey inexplicable got the specifications in the envelope. No, did not say those page
what I felt my heart.

In vain I insisted to transmit to the paper prints mine that produced the letter, in vain I struggled
to express the emotion of my soul deeply moved, the sublime emotion Lord of my spirit that knotted
my tongue, licked my paralyzed eyes and my mind.

Discouraged, dog-tired, I lay in bed.

The incomparable joy of a moment happened to me a pitiful state, and tried to sleep.

Someone has said that sleep is an advance that makes us death. Sweet and refreshing after work, consoling
and beneficial when the pain in your chest jacking their jaws milano; rich in images and fantasies
when he is with us the hope, often aloof, disdainful cruel, if happiness
smiles when we ask you to complete our happiness, a bouquet his crown
of poppies.

The dream long in coming. As I became to think that soon I would have to be separated of the
house to go among strangers and strange win a piece of bread.

What would you do without me the poor elderly?

What would you do if I left? Have more money, it is true, but left alone, and abandoned, with
no friends to an old servant and worked ailing; a doctor as poor as them, and a schoolmaster
who was dying of sadness y. .. Hungry!

Angelina was necessary to go find a maid to come to the aid of my aunt and Mrs. Pepa Juana. But,
how to pay your services? My salary is not always paid on time, because of the bad memory
of Castro Perez and my shyness to claims, which won my aunt with flowers and their kids, and Andrew
gave us was all we had. We resolved to remove a dish on the table, and that that ours was not,
of course, table bankers or princes.

I was going to make a good living, as I did not know, but anyway, it would not be as scant as
I paid the legal expert. I would at the ranch house and food, the weather improved, was the
case and take advantage of good luck, but the thought of leaving my aunts, even if to meet
their needs more broadly, tormented me, filled me with anguish, and I kept thinking that terrify
the promised jobs would require me dealing with people who do not deem me who may not know
me, and which would I have to suffer scorn and abuse. When talking about the supposed happiness
of the rich, and commends the abundance of living, luxury spending, amenities enjoyed and being
around them, no one is right to point out the only thing the darlings of fortune da real superiority
over those who live daily work, arduous and poorly paid. No, not an enviable superiority in
social respects, and in public estimation, that although apparent and mind is powerful element
of happiness, because it makes everyone saved consideration and respect, or is in the quiet
of a life without desires, - that also has the rich, and great and terrible - but in the noble
integrity which gives them reject money for the outrages, not to ask anyone for favors or leniency
with shortage decorum itself. Poverty reduction of regular characters, depresses the mind, debases
the soul, the levels with the most abject, and only very lifted spirits,
spirits of sublime temple, the test unscathed.

When we usually encounter petty beings with souls degraded, for which self-respect is vain word,
if not reach the ears touches the heart, or dyed red cheeks, saying: "Soul of a slave!" And
without wanting to think of a life of misery that debased the character and spirit trap for
fools. Say what you will, that nobility is the only happiness of the rich. For her, only for her,
admiring the world. Everything else that they envy the crowd is like the crown of tinsel that surrounds
the front of the actor. Noble dignity, dignity enviable places except higher heart clothes!

Observe all those who lived a miserable childhood, in whose home is often missed bread, they
had no clothes to cover the emaciated body that begged ashamed public charity, and not as a beggar,
with quiet directness, but hiding the demand flattering phrase, which became, gradually, the
shy smile embarrassing to the appeal; suggestive of the request to
the shameful exploitation, and from there ... tolerance interested
and you will see, whether in wealth, but the mime and society's wealth
has As compensation for a time denied even have hidden in the heart
most vinegar and gall of misery.

Hopeless poverty gives character, and its breast hypocritical breed pride, modesty mocking,
malicious cunning, who have flexibilities Viper, the meanness intriguing poisonous slander and
envy all bloodless the greed and everything ugly.

In pursuit of that noble dignity are all souls uplifted, high thinking, cease heart: the student
who strives to conquer worthy place in society, the merchant spent at work the best years of
life, the tradesman who struggle for life independent. The desire to achieve it is the only apology
that is greed.

My father wanted me that coveted happiness could not achieve their
goals, but he inherited the instinct of pride pride with which I rejected
all the time, a boy, a waiter, and mature man unworthy humiliation,
reprimand unmotivated, the brutal outrage of those who was considered
superior to me.

I inherited my mother's placid sweetness for weakness, submission respectful to all acts of
justice, irresistible tendency to feel sorry for the pain of others, and a certain feminine
delicacy that has caused me a lot of bitterness.

Delivered to these meditations spent an hour.

Wine sleep, and sweet wine and flattering, as a loving friend who
comes to our call to give comfort, to revive the depressed heart as
a compassionate sister who comes to our bed and caresses our face,
-closed our eyes, inviting us to rest because he knows that we suffer
and we need rest.

XXXIX

The next day, after breakfast, I told my aunt what was happening.

-
And you go! - Cried my aunt Pepa .-- You go and leave us?

- Is necessary.

I realize this must be very painful for you .... I understand, I have already thought about
it, but what to do?

- Now that we are alone, when Angelina just left ... when after all
these years of freedom has returned to our side!

- Yes, Aunt, I will
go, and not by choice.

God knows how painful is this separation! ... But Do not worry you. It is necessary .... I am
bound a. ...

- To live with your aunt! - Said interrupting me.

-
I have to meet the needs of you.

- Do not you just what you want
in the house of Castro Perez?

Did you ask something you can not us?

- No, aunt, but I can not look calmly working life takes you. Andrés ago for us what he can, and
the poor may soon.

I am not ashamed to accept his favors; but that should not go on
indefinitely .... You know the house of Castro Pérez I earn little,
and it is not possible to earn more.

- Well, I think there is your
future ....

I could not but smile to hear my poor aunt.

- My future?

-
Yes.

- No, aunt, I would not spend my life writing allegations.

This work is killing me. Not because rude, but because it is insufficient.

I prefer to farm work and the hectic life of the fields giving health
and good humor.

The patient remained silent. Aunt Pepa tried to convince me that I should not leave. We discussed
at length the point, she, living, nerve, unleashing all the difficulties,
I pretending that he had a serenity.

Neither the old woman wanted to surrender and I managed to convince her.

- Come on - I cried - that solves my sponsor!

- Yes, my son - said the old woman - it's my turn! Pepa loves you and is made let us drive.
Think you, Pepa, which is not far from us, think that will come frequently, and believes that
now, with Castro Pérez, will do nothing. You go, Rodolfo, I go, and we'll be very happy. Say
no more. Get dressed, I see that as you judge, dress and go to the home of Fernandez. Discontent
will not get is a very fine person. Is not it true, Pepa?

- I will, aunt.

- Then you go to the house of Castro Pérez, and alerts you within
twenty days, or those are, as agreed, you have to separate you from
there, and you're done!

He added a little tremulous emotion:

- Look, I feel that we leave, but reason dictates that you let me go, that it does not prevent
you you're doing. I am the best day I'll go too, and I will not die when I choke the idea that
because we have lost well-being that we can not give you ....

The
old woman's voice was becoming weaker every day, and no emotion is
turned off until be imperceptible.

To soothe the sick and leave it alone gave him a hug and kissed her on the forehead.

- No, godmother, we should not grieve! I will come to see you every week. In addition, the estate
Santa Clara is the world's end .... Ya, you'll see his nephew, How cute and Gallardo is coming,
charro dress in a magnificent horse! You'll see, Aunt Pepa, how elegant and handsome I am with the
tight pants, the Jarano gallon, airy jacket and the pistol in his belt! And "taca, taca, taca"! There's
the ranch! Has arrived! And enter Juana saying: "Lady ... wine and the charro! "And you, Aunt
Pepilla, you'll run to meet me and embrace, or peek out the window you see me come and see
all the girls have to look at me with eyes wide, as saying: "What
reguapo!"

And I will come in, sounding the spurs, and you will become very happy. Y. .. Chas! There is a
stream of dollars!

The patient smiled, smiled Pepilla aunt and I walked around the room, affecting the brave admirable
bearing of a rider.

An hour later I went out of the house of Mr. Fernandez.

Presented the doctor card I obtained perfectly.

The farmer showed me into his office, an elegant piece trousseau.

In two of three stayed fixed.

- I hope you on the fifteenth. Come for you. Send a servant.

Do you have custom Riding?

- No, sir, I do like a schoolboy ....

The farmer smiled and said:

- Friend: we'll see!

... Riding is learned ....

Then he spoke of my family, my aunts, my godmother's disease, my grandfather,
who had tried not to know how much, and then fired me two words.

-
Well, - said - problem solved!

You forgive me ... We journey ... "Like you lunch?

And he rose and led me to the door.

In those moments came the lady.

- Dad!

Blushed when he saw me, and murmured shyly:

- You dispense ....

- What is it, Gabriel? - Asked the gentleman.

- What time are we leaving?

- After eating ... unless you want to go out later ....

I waved, and left. Linda creature!

Although I think I see with that blue dress that seemed A patch of
sky, slender, grace, elegant, simple, moist blonde hair, which tied
with a silk ribbon, fell to the back on a towel very wide.

I never seemed more beautiful!

XL

When I reached the office I met the legal expert.

Left to go to court.

- Friend: - I said very gestudo and mohino - I'm tired of waiting
.... What happened?

Why what comes to you at this hour?

Remind yourself that duty comes first.

Let your love affairs for the moments to strike.

I was hurt, and mumbled an apology, which did not calm the anger of
Don Juan, but on Otherwise, you impatient, because, interrupting my
excuses, he added scornfully:

- Well!

Well! Do not repeat this!

... I'm going to court.

Tell the girls you I do not wait .... Return between four and five.

Here in my office is a letter .... Copy you!

It was made the hat, and left.

A little, when I was beginning to write, I heard in the hall feminine
voices that distracted my attention.

Luisa and Teresa, (the others were not speaking) appeared in front
of the desk.

They came very pestles and attack.

- Dad! - The blonde shouted, poking his head .-- lively Dad! We're back!

Then they learned that Don Juan was out and would not return until
the afternoon, the two girls of brashly slipped into the office, and
sat on the bench of the customers.

Fanned furiously, and looked and smiled as willing to say something
they do not fit in the body.

- Did not steal the time? - Asked the
brunette.

- No, miss.

- Really? - Said the blonde.

- No.

- Well
then - burst Luisa, - leave the pen and a chat.

- As you like.

-
What you do not know where we come from?

- In the church store, come
buy perendengues and bows.

- No! - Cry out with one.

- I fail ....

-
Guess you !...-- said the brunette.

- Guess you !...-- repeated the
blonde.

- No success, ladies ....

- Do you hear, Luisa?

No hits! Well we know where you were half an hour ago ....

- Ah! It is hard to say.

I just came, and you would leave me home ..

- Do you hear, Tere?

De .. home!

- Then from there I left an hour ago.

- "So at home, eh? - The brunette
muttered .-- From home!

They looked quietly and smiled.

Luisa, to show off her beautiful hands, her hair was made, stating with forks fingertips. Teresa sat
in the seat letting me see your feet, carefully shoes, then slammed
the fan, pretended that he would set the rods, lowered eyes, and after
a pause, he repeated, looking at me straight in the eye:

- "So at
home, eh?

I laughed.

That "So" was the catch phrase of the Miss Castro Pérez, and Villaverde
when they spoke, everyone said "So Castro girls."

- What are you
laughing? - Asked the blonde upset.

- Sure.

You are very malicious ....

- So Home! - Again .-- say you did not
know who lived there in the "pa ... the ... price "of the marquise!

Why not warn you when moving house?

The storm was over.

- You are very malicious. It is true that I was in the house of Mr. Fernandez ... what?

- Go! Go! Confess you ...-- Luisa said, fanning herself.

- No wonder.

You know that business .... I went to collect a signature.

- You!
If we were there .... We pay a visit. Because we were ashamed to see
Gabriela. Just imagine that over a year ago he came here. Dad said
all the time: "Girls ... You already paid this visit? "We did not
want to go ... because ... truth ....

- Do not say, - interrupted
the dark - do not say that Rudolph is interested!

- Goodbye! And
why not? An owner is to say what they want ....

- Yes, but ... Not
everyone! Can not you see Rodolfo ....?

- Tell me, Teresa, you say!

-
No, Tere! - Pleaded Luisa.

- Well I have to say! ... Well, go, let
... Miss that we ... hits!

- Why?

- Friolera! - Luisa said .-- Have
not seen you so smug and so proud, that all despises, and that says
all we are a clown ... vilaverdinas, some ridiculous.

- Look here,
ladies: I think that girl is not proud, nor smug, I think who did
not despise anyone, and that, by contrast, is very nice to everyone,
and insurance is unable to say that you attribute ....

- You do have
to say! ... You defend it because ... Go! Even if we insist that the interests
connected with getting a living are only material and hence intrinsically lower than those
connected with enjoyment of time released from labor, and even if it were admitted that there
is something engrossing and insubordinate in material interests which leads them to strive
to usurp the place belonging to the higher ideal interests, this would not--barring the fact
of socially divided classes--lead to neglect of the kind of education which trains men for
the useful pursuits. It would rather lead to scrupulous care for them, so that men were trained
to be efficient in them and yet to keep them in their place; education would see to it that
we avoided the evil results which flow from their being allowed to flourish in obscure purlieus
of neglect. Only when a division of these interests coincides with a division of an inferior
and a superior social class will preparation for useful work be looked down upon with contempt
as an unworthy thing: a fact which prepares one for the conclusion that the rigid identification
of work with material interests, and leisure with ideal interests is itself a social product.
The educational formulations of the social situation made over two thousand years ago have
been so influential and give such a clear and logical recognition of the implications of the
division into laboring and leisure classes, that they deserve especial note. According to them,
man occupies the highest place in the scheme of animate existence. In part, he shares the constitution
and functions of plants and animals--nutritive, reproductive, motor or practical. The distinctively
human function is reason existing for the sake of beholding the spectacle of the universe.
Hence the truly human end is the fullest possible of this distinctive human prerogative. The
life of observation, meditation, cogitation, and speculation pursued as an end in itself is
the proper life of man. From reason moreover proceeds the proper control of the lower elements
of human nature--the appetites and the active, motor, impulses. In themselves greedy, insubordinate,
lovers of excess, aiming only at their own satiety, they observe moderation--the law of the
mean--and serve desirable ends as they are subjected to the rule of reason.

Such is the situation as an affair of theoretical psychology and as most adequately stated
by Aristotle. But this state of things is reflected in the constitution of classes of men and
hence in the organization of society. Only in a comparatively small number is the function
of reason capable of operating as a law of life. In the mass of people, vegetative and animal
functions dominate. Their energy of intelligence is so feeble and inconstant that it is constantly
overpowered by bodily appetite and passion. Such persons are not truly ends in themselves,
for only reason constitutes a final end. Like plants, animals and physical tools, they are
means, appliances, for the attaining of ends beyond themselves, although unlike them they have
enough intelligence to exercise a certain discretion in the execution of the tasks committed
to them. Thus by nature, and not merely by social convention, there are those who are slaves--that
is, means for the ends of others. 1 The great body of artisans are in one important respect
worse off than even slaves. Like the latter they are given up to the service of ends external
to themselves; but since they do not enjoy the intimate association with the free superior
class experienced by domestic slaves they remain on a lower plane of excellence. Moreover,
women are classed with slaves and craftsmen as factors among the animate instrumentalities
of production and reproduction of the means for a free or rational life.

Individually and collectively there is a gulf between merely living and living worthily. In
order that one may live worthily he must first live, and so with collective society. The time
and energy spent upon mere life, upon the gaining of subsistence, detracts from that available
for activities that have an inherent rational meaning; they also unfit for the latter. Means
are menial, the serviceable is servile. The true life is possible only in the degree in which
the physical necessities are had without effort and without attention. Hence slaves, artisans,
and women are employed in furnishing the means of subsistence in order that others, those adequately
equipped with intelligence, may live the life of leisurely concern with things intrinsically
worth while.

To these two modes of occupation, with their distinction of servile and free activities (or
"arts") correspond two types of education: the base or mechanical and the liberal or intellectual.
Some persons are trained by suitable practical exercises for capacity in doing things, for
ability to use the mechanical tools involved in turning out physical commodities and rendering
personal service. This training is a mere matter of habituation and technical skill; it operates
through repetition and assiduity in application, not through awakening and nurturing thought.
Liberal education aims to train intelligence for its proper office: to know. The less this
knowledge has to do with practical affairs, with making or producing, the more adequately it
engages intelligence. So consistently does Aristotle draw the line between menial and liberal
education that he puts what are now called the "fine" arts, music, painting, sculpture, in
the same class with menial arts so far as their practice is concerned. They involve physical
agencies, assiduity of practice, and external results. In discussing, for example, education
in music he raises the question how far the young should be practiced in the playing of instruments.
His answer is that such practice and proficiency may be tolerated as conduce to appreciation;
that is, to understanding and enjoyment of music when played by slaves or professionals. When
professional power is aimed at, music sinks from the liberal to the professional level. One
might then as well teach cooking, says Aristotle. Even a liberal concern with the works of
fine art depends upon the existence of a hireling class of practitioners who have subordinated
the development of their own personality to attaining skill in mechanical execution. The higher
the activity the more purely mental is it; the less does it have to do with physical things
or with the body. The more purely mental it is, the more independent or self-sufficing is it.

These last words remind us that Aristotle again makes a distinction of superior and inferior
even within those living the life of reason. For there is a distinction in ends and in free
action, according as one's life is merely accompanied by reason or as it makes reason its own
medium. That is to say, the free citizen who devotes himself to the public life of his community,
sharing in the management of its affairs and winning personal honor and distinction, lives
a life accompanied by reason. But the thinker, the man who devotes himself to scientific inquiry
and philosophic speculation, works, so to speak, in reason, not simply by *. Even the activity
of the citizen in his civic relations, in other words, retains some of the taint of practice,
of external or merely instrumental doing. This infection is shown by the fact that civic activity
and civic excellence need the help of others; one cannot engage in public life all by himself.
But all needs, all desires imply, in the philosophy of Aristotle, a material factor; they involve
lack, privation; they are dependent upon something beyond themselves for completion. A purely
intellectual life, however, one carries on by himself, in himself; such assistance as he may
derive from others is accidental, rather than intrinsic. In knowing, in the life of theory,
reason finds its own full manifestation; knowing for the sake of knowing irrespective of any
application is alone independent, or self-sufficing. Hence only the education that makes for
power to know as an end in itself, without reference to the practice of even civic duties,
is truly liberal or free. 2. The Present Situation. If the Aristotelian conception represented
just Aristotle's personal view, it would be a more or less interesting historical curiosity.
It could be dismissed as an illustration of the lack of sympathy or the amount of academic
pedantry which may coexist with extraordinary intellectual gifts. One boyfriend was from age at
which point the wish until the present day, who, after many rounds and suspiretear, showing a thousand
means the rectitude of its purposes, was admitted to the house Recently Dona Silvia, and continued
later, with the consent of the father, in the same honest and loving habit. Medicine was a boy,
boy in every sense of the word up from the floor as the least he can lift a man estudiosillo, innocent,
bonísimo and manchego for more signs. From the fourth year began those caste relations, and the
days of this story, concluded and career and released Quevedo (that was his name) to the faculty
practice, playing and to marry. Worst satisfied the girl's choice, praised his discretion,
his contempt of vain appearances to attend only to the solid and practical.

As I say, if we look back Rufina scion of Torquemada to tender, we
will find better explanation of the vanity that infused their offspring,
because (I mean that sincerely) I have not met cutest creature than
that Valentine or extraordinary precocity as yours.

Cosa extraordinary! Despite the unpleasant resemblance to his father, was the handsome boy, with
such expression of intelligence in that face, that was one gaping at him, with such charms in her
person and character and behavioral traits as superior to his age, who see him talk to him
and love him deeply, it was all one. And what his magical gravity, not incompatible concern with
children's own! That grace mixed inexplicable poise do not know what to their years! What divine
light in his eyes sometimes, and other sort of mysterious and sweet sadness! Espigadillo body,
his legs were thin but in good shape, the larger head than usual, with some deformity of the skull.
As to his suitability for the study, call it true prodigy, wonder of the school, and pride and
glory of the teachers. Of will talk about later. I only say now that the worse did not deserve such
a jewel, it had to deserve it! and if man can praise God for the goods with which he graced,
rascal had the very reasons for could you be like Moses, so many hours with arms raised to
heaven. Do not get up because I knew the sky was not to drop you any brief which he liked.

II

Let
us something else: Torquemada was no such loan sharks who are forever multiplying flow for the
pleasure of possessing platonic, sordid living and not spending, and to die, wanted, or else take
to the earth, or hide them where not a living soul can find. No: D. Francisco would have been like
in another era, but could not exempted from the influence of the second half of the nineteenth
century, which has almost made a religion of materiality decent existence.

Those greedy of old pipe, which bustled wealth and living as beggars
and are dying like dogs in a bed full of fleas and bank notes stuck
in the hay, were mystical or metaphysical usury, their selfishness
is subtlety in the pure idea of ​​the business, adored the Blessed,
the ineffable quantity, sacrificing to it his material existence,
the body's needs and life, as the mystic postponed all to the compelling
idea of ​​saving.

Worst living in a time that starts from the confiscation, suffered, without understanding, the metamorphosis
that has distorted the metaphysical usury, making in positivist, and if it is true, as evidenced
by history, from 51 to 68, its real time learning, he was dressed badly and affecting poverty,
face and unwashed hands, scratching at each moment in the arms and legs as if brought misery,
fat hat, coat frayed but also consists in the chronicles of the neighborhood they ate at home awake
most of the year, and that Mrs. went out to their business a shawl and old boots bored of her
husband, the fact remains that around of 70, the house was already on the other foot, that
my Doña Silvia became very nice on certain days; that D. Francisco was changing his clothes
more than once a fortnight, that the food was less ram cow, and Sunday was added to a despojito
cooked chicken, that's what beans to all grass and a few days dry bread and raw sausages, was
passing into history, that appeared to stew on certain dates, at night, and fish, especially in times of
softness, ranging flights, which began at that table chops head beef and pork, salt at home for himself
Torquemada, who was a famous Salter, who, in addition and not to tire, the whole family start
treating them as God commands.

For in the last years of Mrs. Silvia, was accentuated further processing. At that time family tasted
spring mattresses; Torquemada began to use real fifty hat; enjoyed two layers, a very good, with
Blockages are red, the children were well apañaditos; Rufina was a sink of Miramar and do not
touch me with basin and pitcher of blue glass that was never used to avoid damage; Doña Silvia
is adorned with a fur coat rabbit appeared, and left cross-eyed to the whole street and alley
Dog Tudescos when check out the bead trimmed in short, that step by step and elbow to clean
it had, been getting into the middle class, middle class in our good-natured, all needs and forms,
and growing so, so, oh pain! we're running out of people.

Well, sir, bursts Dona Silvia, and wielded by Rufina the reins of government of the house metamorphosis
is marked much more. A new realm, new principles.

Comparing the small with large private and public, say that what seemed to me at the entrance
of the Liberals, with their little revolutionary meaning in what they do and say. Torquemada represented
The conservative idea, but relented, it was not to compromise! bowing to the logic of time.
Go through with the clean shirt every half week, with the abandonment of the layer number two
for the day, relegating it to the night service, with all of the fungus exile number three, who
could not already have more sebum, accepted without protest alive, renewing tablecloths during
the week, came to the grass, the lamb with peas (in season), fish fine during Lent and the
Christmas turkey; tolerated the new dishes on certain days, the jacket braid, that it was
a refinement label, and had nothing to say about the modest Rufina
galas and his brother, carpet or cabinet, or other much progress that
have been entering the house after the manner of contraband.

And very soon saw D. Francisco that those developments were good and that his daughter was very
talent, because ... going, it looked like the other Thursday ... my man laid himself down to the street
and felt, with good clothes, more people than before, until he came out better business, more
friends useful and exploitable. Stepped stronger, better man coughed, spoke high and dare to
raise the rooster in the gathering of coffee, noticing with vigor to support any opinions, as
before, no doubt the bad effect and his coat involvement poverty routinely provided was of the
opinion of others. Little by little come to realize in themselves the proper encouragement
social and financial capacity; was played, the sound warned him that he owned and rentier.
But vanity blinded him not ever. Male uniform in composition, compact and dense could not engage
in the folly of stretching the foot over the length of the sheet. In character were somewhat resistant
to the changes of form imposed by the day, and he never varied and
his speech, not some craft ideas and practices were changed.

Prevailed affectation of always saying that times were very bad, very bad, the lament of the
disproportion between their meager earnings and a lot of work that lasted mellow diction and
that habit of asking the family if anyone healthy, and saying that I was not in good health, with
a grimace of disgust with life. He and yellow goatee, mustache more black than white, both trimmed
face as recortaditos that once seemed glued to born there. Outside of clothing, improved quality,
if not how to take was the same one we met at the home of Doña Lupe turkeys, in face the very strange
confusion of military and ecclesiastical, the bilious color, the black and somewhat dreamy
eyes, gestures and manners expressing effeminacy same hypocrisy, bald least populated and
cleaner, and all the crass, slippery and disgusting, very soon ever, when health, shaking hands,
a quite sweaty.

In the early Valentinito intelligence was so proud, that did not fit into his skin. As the boy
advanced in his studies, Don Francisco was growing parental love, up to the blind passion. In honor
of the miser, it must be said that, if reproduced will be assessed physically at that piece of nature,
he felt the superiority of the son, and This is more than pleased to be giving him. Because
Valentinito was the prodigy of wonders, a shred of divinity exalted in the earth down. And
Torquemada, thinking about future, in what his son would be, if alive, is not worthy of having
conceived it engendered, and he felt about the innate shyness of what matters compared to what
is spirit.

In what I say about intellectual ability and rare creature, do not think that there the slightest exaggeration.
I say with all candor that the boy was the most wonderful you can see, and which was made
in the field of education as those extraordinary mills that arise
from time to time intended to break new ground to humanity.

In addition to intelligence, early age that dawned on him as the dawn of a splendid day, had
all the charms of children: sweetness, wit and kindness. The boy, in short, in love and is not
surprisingly D. Francisco and his daughter were lunatics with him. After the first year was not necessary
to punish him ever, nor even rebuke. He learned to read by art miraculous in a few days, as
if to bring him known as the womb. At five years, knew many Children learn things that others
hardly at twelve. One day he told me of two teachers my friends who have primary and secondary
school education, They carried to him, and I was amazed. I never saw such a precocious intelligence
and a wonderful target.

Because if some answers are saddled Taravilla, demonstrating the strength and wealth of his
memory, in the tone that said other was put to see how the sense understood and appreciated.

Grammar knew it by truck, but the dominant geography as a man. Outside school grounds, stunned to
see the safety of their responses and comments, no hints of childish arrogance. Shy and quiet,
did not seem to understand that there was merit in the skills it looked, and was surprised
that both the weights and applaud. Contáronme in its house was very little to do. Studying the lessons
so quickly and easily was left over time to play with, always very bland and innocent. Do not talk
to him down to the street to tinker with the kids in the neighborhood. His antics were peaceful,
and consisted, to five years, doodles and lyrics fill the role of the rooms or tear Some caches,
in taking from the balcony into the street a long rope to the top of a coffee maker, lowered to
touch the hat of a passerby, and picking after all haste. A obedient humble not earned any child,
and having all perfections, to mistreat the ill-treated clothes as
little as possible.

But his unprecedented powers were not yet shown, when studied iniciáronse Arithmetic, and is revealed
later in secondary education. Since its early years, to receive the rudiments of the science
of quantity, numbered and memory remained high tens and even hundreds. Calculated with unfailing
tact, and his father himself, who was an eagle to do, on the edge of the imagination, to account
for the rule of interest, not consulted him rarely. Valentin begin the study of mathematics and
disclose suddenly Institute the greatness of his numen arithmetic, was all one. Not learn things,
I already knew, and the book did nothing to arouse the ideas, open them, so to speak, like Heat spring
buds unfold into flowers. For him there was nothing difficult or problem that caused fear.
One day the teacher was his father and said, 'That boy is everything inexplicable, Mr. Torquemada,
or has the devil in the body, or is the piece of divinity beautiful
that has fallen on the ground.

Soon I will have nothing to teach. Newton is Risen D. Francisco, an outstanding organization
for mathematics, a genius no doubt new formula is brought under the arm to widen the field of
science. Remember you of what I say: If this guy is a man, astonished and upset the world. "

How
was Torquemada to hear this, you will understand. Embraced the teacher, and satisfaction I was
full of eyes and mouth in tears and slobber. Since that day, the man could not itself, was
his son, not with love but with a certain superstitious awe. Cared for him as a supernatural
being placed in their hands by special privilege. Watching their meals, not showing much frightened
if appetite to see consideration, ran the windows so that no air entered, he heard of the outside
temperature before letting them out to determine whether to put a scarf, or the Carrick fat,
or water boots, and when asleep, he wandered from tiptoe, he had to ride on Sundays, or the theater,
and if the angel had shown strange fondness for expensive toys, Torquemada, overcome their sordid,
it's been purchased. But the phenomenon that showed no love but to the books read quickly and as if by
magic, aware of every page in the blink of an eye. His dad bought him a travel book very picture
of European cities and wilds. The seriousness of the boy were amazed to hear to all friends of
the house, and there were those who said it looked like a man.

In matters of malice was of exceptional purity, did not learn any ugly that no act of those who know old
shoots his shameless of this generation. Their innocence and heavenly donosura allowed us to
know about the angels as if we tried, and its reflection verging how wonderful. Other children,
when asked what they want to be, respond to bishops general or if it rises above the vanity that bite
at physical skills, say drivers, athletes or circus clowns, those inclined to imitation, actors,
painters ... Valentinito, to hear the question, raised his shoulders and said nothing. At best,
he said "do not know ', and say, plunged into the speaker a bright and penetrating gaze, vague
without flash to ideas he had at the cerebrazo, and who once had to illuminate the whole earth.

But
the worse, while acknowledging that there was no race at the height of his miraculous child, I thought
dedicate to engineer, because the law is something of a charlatan. Engineer, but what? "Civil or
military? Valentine soon noticed that he was not enthusiastic about the troops, and, against
general law on children's hobbies, viewed with indifference of the uniforms. Well Engineer roads.
In the opinion of the school teacher, Valentine was put before concluding the years of high
school, in the hands of a teacher of preparatory studies for special races, which, after groping
his colossal intelligence, he stood astonished, and one day he scared with hands on head, and running
for other teachers in higher mathematics, said, "I present to you the monster of the present age."
And he arose, and were amazed, as was the guy to the board, and as he scribbled by entangling
and spend chalk, extremely difficult problems solved. Then he made different calculations
and memory operations that even for the experts is not a breeze. One of those maestrazos, wanting to rush
you, threw the numerical calculation of radicals, as if someone had thrown almonds. The same
was for him the nth root for others to take a couple of jumps. Guys those so wise looked preoccupied,
stating he saw no case even remotely similar.

It was really interesting that picture, and worthy of inclusion in the annals of science: four
men over fifty, bald and half blind from all that studying, teachers of teachers, congregábanse
brat before he had to do their calculations in the lower wax, and the admiration they had silent
and perplexed, for it could you take difficulties the angel, which is the drink like water. Another
proposed examiners believe homologies Valentin was Satin them, and when they saw that not, these could
not contain their enthusiasm: one called the Antichrist, and another he picked her up and put
it to the peel, and all were fighting about who would take him, eager to complete the first mathematical
education century. Valentine looked at them without pride or bashfulness, innocent owner if,
like Christ child among doctors.

III

Enough math, I say now, as I point out that Torquemada urged lived in the same Street house where
he met when Tudescos went to see him to ask that of Bringas Please
do not remember, back in 68, and I have to hurry to present a subject
I know long time, and until now never mind at all: a D. Joseph Bailon,
who was all nights at the house of our D. Francisco to play with the
game of checkers or mu, and whose my story intervention is necessary
for the development and logically.

This Mr. Bailon is a cleric who hanged habits, 69, Malaga throwing herself to revolutionary librecultista
with such rabid fervor that he could not return to the fold, even if I wanted he had to admit. The
first thing the prisoner was allowed to grow beards, ranting in the clubs, Catilin. tremendous
write against your office, and, finally, operating verb et gladiolus, took to the barricades
with a blunderbuss that her mouth was the same as a tompeta. Up and given to the demons, he catechized
Protestants, by fitting to preach and to lecture in the chapel, which he made of lousy wins
and only driven by the pea. A Madrid came when those gentle couple, Mr. and Mrs. Horacio Malvina,
put his establishment Chamberí evangelical. For a regular stipend, Bailon helped them in the trades,
casting sermons about bittersweet, quirky and annoying. But a year from these deals, I do not
know what happened ... It was a daring thing apostolic Bailón with
neophytes: the truth is that Mrs. Malvina, who was a person very eyes,
he said in broken Spanish four fresh; intervened D. Horace also insulted
his coadjutor, and then Bailon, who was a of a lot of salt in such
cases, pulled a knife as big as today and tomorrow, and let's say
which if not removed from before they cast out the tripe.

Such was the panic of the poor English, who ran away screaming and
never stopped sticking to the roof.

Summary: it was Bailón to leave that accommodation, and after rolling around giving saber,
was to stop to the wording of a newspaper very atrevidillo, as their mission was to throw pebbles
fire to any authority, to the priests, bishops and the Pope himself. This was on 73, and that
period dates the current political pamphlets published by the clerizonte in the serial, and
which did tiraditos apart; nonsense written in biblical style, and have at oddly enough, her
days of success. As it was selling well, and brought out his devilish author of more than a
pinch.

But whatever happened, the revolutionary fever, brochures, and Bailon went into hiding, shaving
to dress up and to flee abroad. Two years stuck here another Once, very long whiskers, augmented
by part of the beard, as he spent Victor Manuel, and if brought or not brought gossip and messages
of the emigrants, and brought him hand and Saladero had in three months. The next year, dismissed
the case, the man lived Chamberí, according to the neighborhood chatter, much to the biblical, cohabiting
with a wealthy widow I had herd of goats and donkeys also a place of milk. This story as told to
me, recognizing that in this part of history is patriarchal Bailon very dark. It is common knowledge
that the widow the waterfall, which appeared Bailon money soon. The establishment and donkeys
and goats belong to him. Arrendólo everything went to live at the center of Madrid, focused
on English, and I need not say more for to understand where they came from their knowledge and
dealings with Torquemada, because it is see that it was his teacher, initiated him into the
mysteries of the trade, and he handled some of their capital as he had handled the Magnificent
Doña Lupe, best known for the turkeys.

Was D. Joseph Bailon a big animal of great height, athletic, robust and highly stressed forms
faction, true and living anatomical study for its rich muscle. Had lately given again to shave,
but had no face of a cure, nor a monk, or bullfighter. Was While a spoiled Dante. Says a friend
of mine, who for his sins he has to deal with Bailon, this is the picture of the Sibyl of Cumae,
painted by Michelangelo, with sibyls the other ladies and the Prophets in the wonderful ceiling
of the Sistine Chapel. Seems in fact, an old breed that has titanic in his brow all celestial
wrath.

Profile of Bailon, and arm and leg, as aged trees, the brawny chest, and the positions he knew
take, raising a Pataz and arched his arm, resemble those big shots that walk the roofs of cathedrals,
sprawled on a cloud. Too bad it was not fashion that we should walk naked, to luciese academic
gallantry throughout the angel of cornice. At the time I submit that now, was over fifty years.

Torquemada
estimated it much, because in their business relationships, Bailon had shown great formality
and even delicacy. And as the renegade cleric had a history as variadito and dramatic, and knew
very telling that, embellishing it with lies, D. Francis was entranced listening to you, in
all matters of a high order he had the oracle. D. Joseph was those four ideas and few more
words are made up to pretend they know what and dazzle to ignore the ignorant without malice.
The most dazzling was D. Francisco, and also the only mortal who read the leaflets Bailón at
ten years of publication; literature aged almost at birth, and whose brief success does not
understand but remembering that democracy sentimental style to Jeremiah, also had its fifteen.

Bailon
wrote those nonsense in short short paragraph, and sometimes breaking a thing santa gratia:
"Glory to God in the highest and peace", etc ... to go after this record:

"The times are near, time of redemption in the Son of Man will own the land.

"The Word deposited eighteen centuries ago the divine seed. In the dark night came to fruition.
Here are the flowers.

"What do you call? The rights of the people. "

And maybe, when the reader was more careless, they drop this:

"Behold the tyrant. Damn!

"He applied his ear and tell me where this rumor is vague, confusing, strange.

"Posad hand on the ground and tell me, why is shaken.

"He is the son of man that moves, determined to regain his birthright.

"Why pales the face of the tyrant? Ah! The tyrant sees his hours are numbered ... "

Sometimes started by saying that the "Young soldier, where are you
going?"

And finally, after much dizzy, stayed the reader without knowing where the soldier was, as
they were not all author and audience, to Leganés.

All this seemed to Pearl D. Francisco, a man of little reading

.
 Experience had to do with mundane,
profane, and secular affairs, practically necessary indeed, but of little import in comparison
with supernatural objects of knowledge. When we add to this motive the force derived from the
literary character of the Roman education and the Greek philosophic tradition, and conjoin
to them the preference for studies which obviously demarcated the aristocratic class from the
lower classes, we can readily understand the tremendous power exercised by the persistent preference
of the "intellectual" over the "practical" not simply in educational philosophies but in the
higher schools. 2. The Modern Theory of Experience and Knowledge. As we shall see later, the
development of experimentation as a method of knowledge makes possible and necessitates a radical
transformation of the view just set forth. But before coming to that, we have to note the theory
of experience and knowledge developed in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. In general,
it presents us with an almost complete reversal of the classic doctrine of the relations of
experience and reason. To Plato experience meant habituation, or the conservation of the net
product of a lot of past chance trials. Reason meant the principle of reform, of progress,
of increase of control. Devotion to the cause of reason meant breaking through the limitations
of custom and getting at things as they really were. To the modern reformers, the situation
was the other way around. Reason, universal principles, a priori notions, meant either blank
forms which had to be filled in by experience, by sense observations, in order to get significance
and validity; or else were mere indurated prejudices, dogmas imposed by authority, which masqueraded
and found protection under august names. The great need was to break way from captivity to
conceptions which, as Bacon put it, "anticipated nature" and imposed merely human opinions
upon her, and to resort to experience to find out what nature was like. Appeal to experience
marked the breach with authority. It meant openness to new impressions; eagerness in discovery
and invention instead of absorption in tabulating and systematizing received ideas and "proving"
them by means of the relations they sustained to one another. It was the irruption into the
mind of the things as they really were, free from the veil cast over them by preconceived ideas.

The change was twofold. Experience lost the practical meaning which it had borne from the time
of Plato. It ceased to mean ways of doing and being done to, and became a name for something
intellectual and cognitive. It meant the apprehension of material which should ballast and
check the exercise of reasoning. By the modern philosophic empiricist and by his opponent,
experience has been looked upon just as a way of knowing. The only question was how good a
way it is. The result was an even greater "intellectualism" than is found in ancient philosophy,
if that word be used to designate an emphatic and almost exclusive interest in knowledge in
its isolation. Practice was not so much subordinated to knowledge as treated as a kind of tag-end
or aftermath of knowledge. The educational result was only to confirm the exclusion of active
pursuits from the school, save as they might be brought in for purely utilitarian ends--the
acquisition by drill of certain habits. In the second place, the interest in experience as
a means of basing truth upon objects, upon nature, led to looking at the mind as purely receptive.
The more passive the mind is, the more truly objects will impress themselves upon it. For the
mind to take a hand, so to speak, would be for it in the very process of knowing to vitiate
true knowledge--to defeat its own purpose. The ideal was a maximum of receptivity. Since the
impressions made upon the mind by objects were generally termed sensations, empiricism thus
became a doctrine of sensationalism--that is to say, a doctrine which identified knowledge
with the reception and association of sensory impressions. In John Locke, the most influential
of the empiricists, we find this sensationalism mitigated by a recognition of certain mental
faculties, like discernment or discrimination, comparison, abstraction, and generalization
which work up the material of sense into definite and organized forms and which even evolve
new ideas on their own account, such as the fundamental conceptions of morals and mathematics.
(See ante, p. 61.) But some of his successors, especially in France in the latter part of the
eighteenth century, carried his doctrine to the limit; they regarded discernment and judgment
as peculiar sensations made in us by the conjoint presence of other sensations. Locke had held
that the mind is a blank piece of paper, or a wax tablet with nothing engraved on it at birth
(a tabula rasa) so far as any contents of ideas were concerned, but had endowed it with activities
to be exercised upon the material received. His French successors razed away the powers and
derived them also from impressions received.

As we have earlier noted, this notion was fostered by the new interest in education as method
of social reform. (See ante, p. 93.) The emptier the mind to begin with, the more it may be
made anything we wish by bringing the right influences to bear upon it. Thus Helvetius, perhaps
the most extreme and consistent sensationalist, proclaimed that education could do anything--that
it was omnipotent. Within the sphere of school instruction, empiricism found its directly beneficial
office in protesting against mere book learning. If knowledge comes from the impressions made
upon us by natural objects, it is impossible to procure knowledge without the use of objects
which impress the mind. Words, all kinds of linguistic symbols, in the lack of prior presentations
of objects with which they may be associated, convey nothing but sensations of their own shape
and color--certainly not a very instructive kind of knowledge. Sensationalism was an extremely
handy weapon with which to combat doctrines and opinions resting wholly upon tradition and
authority. With respect to all of them, it set up a test: Where are the real objects from which
these ideas and beliefs are received? If such objects could not be produced, ideas were explained
as the result of false associations and combinations. Empiricism also insisted upon a first-hand
element. The impression must be made upon me, upon my mind. The further we get away from this
direct, first-hand source of knowledge, the more numerous the sources of error, and the vaguer
the resulting idea.

As might be expected, however, the philosophy was weak upon the positive side. Of course, the
value of natural objects and firsthand acquaintance was not dependent upon the truth of the
theory. Introduced into the schools they would do their work, even if the sensational theory
about the way in which they did it was quite wrong. So far, there is nothing to complain of.
But the emphasis upon sensationalism also operated to influence the way in which natural objects
were employed, and to prevent full good being got from them. "Object lessons" tended to isolate
the mere sense-activity and make it an end in itself. The more isolated the object, the more
isolated the sensory quality, the more distinct the sense-impression as a unit of knowledge.
The theory worked not only in the direction of this mechanical isolation, which tended to reduce
instruction to a kind of physical gymnastic of the sense-organs (good like any gymnastic of
bodily organs, but not more so), but also to the neglect of thinking. According to the theory
there was no need of thinking in connection with sense-observation; in fact, in strict theory
such thinking would be impossible till afterwards, for thinking consisted simply in combining
and separating sensory units which had been received without any participation of judgment.

As a matter of fact, accordingly, practically no scheme of education upon a purely sensory
basis has ever been systematically tried, at least after the early years of infancy. Its obvious
deficiencies have caused it to be resorted to simply for filling in "rationalistic" knowledge
(that is to say, knowledge of definitions, rules, classifications, and modes of application
conveyed through symbols), and as a device for lending greater "interest" to barren symbols.
There are at least three serious defects of sensationalistic empiricism as an educational philosophy
of knowledge. (a) the historical value of the theory was critical; it was a dissolvent of current
beliefs about the world and political institutions. It was a destructive organ of criticism
of hard and fast dogmas. But the work of education is constructive, not critical. It assumes
not old beliefs to be eliminated and revised, but the need of building up new experience into
intellectual habitudes as correct as possible from the start. Sensationalism is highly unfitted
for this constructive task. Mind, understanding, denotes responsiveness to meanings (ante,
p. 29), not response to direct physical stimuli. And meaning exists only with reference to
a context, which is excluded by any scheme which identifies knowledge with a combination of
sense-impressions. The theory, so far as educationally applied, led either to a magnification
of mere physical excitations or else to a mere heaping up of isolated objects and qualities.

(b) While direct impression has the advantage of being first hand, it also has the disadvantage
of being limited in range. Direct acquaintance with the natural surroundings of the home environment
so as to give reality to ideas about portions of the earth beyond the reach of the senses,
and as a means of arousing intellectual curiosity, is one thing. As an end-all and be-all of
geographical knowledge it is fatally restricted. In precisely analogous fashion, beans, shoe
pegs, and counters may be helpful aids to a realization of numerical relations, but when employed
except as aids to thought--the apprehension of meaning--they become an obstacle to the growth
of arithmetical understanding. They arrest growth on a low plane, the plane of specific physical
symbols. Just as the race developed especial symbols as tools of calculation and mathematical
reasonings, because the use of the fingers as numerical symbols got in the way, so the individual
must progress from concrete to abstract symbols--that is, symbols whose meaning is realized
only through conceptual thinking. And undue absorption at the outset in the physical object
of sense hampers this growth. (c) A thoroughly false psychology of mental development underlay
sensationalistic empiricism. Experience is in truth a matter of activities, instinctive and
impulsive, in their interactions with things. What even an infant "experiences" is not a passively
received quality impressed by an object, but the effect which some activity of handling, throwing,
pounding, tearing, etc., has upon an object, and the consequent effect of the object upon the
direction of activities. (See ante, p. 140.) Fundamentally (as we shall see in more detail),
the ancient notion of experience as a practical matter is truer to fact that the modern notion
of it as a mode of knowing by means of sensations. The neglect of the deep-seated active and
motor factors of experience is a fatal defect of the traditional empirical philosophy. Nothing
is more uninteresting and mechanical than a scheme of object lessons which ignores and as far
as may be excludes the natural tendency to learn about the qualities of objects by the uses
to which they are put through trying to do something with them.

It is obvious, accordingly, that even if the philosophy of experience represented by modern
empiricism had received more general theoretical assent than has been accorded to it, it could
not have furnished a satisfactory philosophy of the learning process. Its educational influence
was confined to injecting a new factor into the older curriculum, with incidental modifications
of the older studies and methods. It introduced greater regard for observation of things directly
and through pictures and graphic descriptions, and it reduced the importance attached to verbal
symbolization. But its own scope was so meager that it required supplementation by information
concerning matters outside of sense-perception and by matters which appealed more directly
to thought. Consequently it left unimpaired the scope of informational and abstract, or "rationalistic"
studies.

3. Experience as Experimentation. It has already been intimated that sensational empiricism
represents neither the idea of experience justified by modern psychology nor the idea of knowledge
suggested by modern scientific procedure. With respect to the former, it omits the primary
position of active response which puts things to use and which learns about them through discovering
the consequences that result from use. It would seem as if five minutes' unprejudiced observation
of the way an infant gains knowledge would have sufficed to overthrow the notion that he is
passively engaged in receiving impressions of isolated ready-made qualities of sound, color,
hardness, etc. For it would be seen that the infant reacts to stimuli by activities of handling,
reaching, etc., in order to see what results follow upon motor response to a sensory stimulation;
it would be seen that what is learned are not isolated qualities, but the behavior which may
be expected from a thing, and the changes in things and persons which an activity may be expected
to produce. In other words, what he learns are connections. Even such qualities as red color,
sound of a high pitch, have to be discriminated and identified on the basis of the activities
they call forth and the consequences these activities effect. We learn what things are hard
and what are soft by finding out through active experimentation what they respectively will
do and what can be done and what cannot be done with them. In like fashion, children learn
about persons by finding out what responsive activities these persons exact and what these
persons will do in reply to the children's activities. And the combination of what things do
to us (not in impressing qualities on a passive mind) in modifying our actions, furthering
some of them and resisting and checking others, and what we can do to them in producing new
changes constitutes experience. The methods of science by which the revolution in our knowledge
of the world dating from the seventeenth century, was brought about, teach the same lesson.
For these methods are nothing but experimentation carried out under conditions of deliberate
control. To the Greek, it seemed absurd that such an activity as, say, the cobbler punching
holes in leather, or using wax and needle and thread, could give an adequate knowledge of the
world. It seemed almost axiomatic that for true knowledge we must have recourse to concepts
coming from a reason above experience. But the introduction of the experimental method signified
precisely that such operations, carried on under conditions of control, are just the ways in
which fruitful ideas about nature are obtained and tested. In other words, it is only needed
to conduct such an operation as the pouring of an acid on a metal for the purpose of getting
knowledge instead of for the purpose of getting a trade result, in order to lay hold of the
principle upon which the science of nature was henceforth to depend. Sense perceptions were
indeed indispensable, but there was less reliance upon sense perceptions in their natural or
customary form than in the older science. They were no longer regarded as containing within
themselves some "form" or "species" of universal kind in a disguised mask of sense which could
be stripped off by rational thought. On the contrary, the first thing was to alter and extend
the data of sense perception: to act upon the given objects of sense by the lens of the telescope
and microscope, and by all sorts of experimental devices. To accomplish this in a way which
would arouse new ideas (hypotheses, theories) required even more general ideas (like those
of mathematics) than were at the command of ancient science. But these general conceptions
were no longer taken to give knowledge in themselves. They were implements for instituting,
conducting, interpreting experimental inquiries and formulating their results.

The logical outcome is a new philosophy of experience and knowledge, a philosophy which no
longer puts experience in opposition to rational knowledge and explanation. Experience is no
longer a mere summarizing of what has been done in a more or less chance way in the past; it
is a deliberate control of what is done with reference to making what happens to us and what
we do to things as fertile as possible of suggestions (of suggested meanings) and a means for
trying out the validity of the suggestions. When trying, or experimenting, ceases to be blinded
by impulse or custom, when it is guided by an aim and conducted by measure and method, it becomes
reasonable--rational. When what we suffer from things, what we undergo at their hands, ceases
to be a matter of chance circumstance, when it is transformed into a consequence of our own
prior purposive endeavors, it becomes rationally significant--enlightening and instructive.
The antithesis of empiricism and rationalism loses the support of the human situation which
once gave it meaning and relative justification.

The bearing of this change upon the opposition of purely practical and purely intellectual
studies is self-evident. The distinction is not intrinsic but is dependent upon conditions,
and upon conditions which can be regulated. Practical activities may be intellectually narrow
and trivial; they will be so in so far as they are routine, carried on under the dictates of
authority, and having in view merely some external result. But childhood and youth, the period
of schooling, is just the time when it is possible to carry them on in a different spirit.
It is inexpedient to repeat the discussions of our previous chapters on thinking and on the
evolution of educative subject matter from childlike work and play to logically organized subject
matter. The discussions of this chapter and the prior one should, however, give an added meaning
to those results.

(i) Experience itself primarily consists of the active relations subsisting between a human
being and his natural and social surroundings. In some cases, the initiative in activity is
on the side of the environment; the human being undergoes or suffers certain checkings and
deflections of endeavors. In other cases, the behavior of surrounding things and persons carries
to a successful issue the active tendencies of the individual, so that in the end what the
individual undergoes are consequences which he has himself tried to produce. In just the degree
in which connections are established between what happens to a person and what he does in response,
and between what he does to his environment and what it does in response to him, his acts and
the things about him acquire meaning. He learns to understand both himself and the world of
men and things. Purposive education or schooling should present such an environment that this
interaction will effect acquisition of those meanings which are so important that they become,
in turn, instruments of further learnings. (ante, Ch. XI.) As has been repeatedly pointed out,
activity out of school is carried on under conditions which have not been deliberately adapted
to promoting the function of understanding and formation of effective intellectual dispositions.
The results are vital and genuine as far as they go, but they are limited by all kinds of circumstances.
Some powers are left quite undeveloped and undirected; others get only occasional and whimsical
stimulations; others are formed into habits of a routine skill at the expense of aims and resourceful
initiative and inventiveness. It is not the business of the school to transport youth from
an environment of activity into one of cramped study of the records of other men's learning;
but to transport them from an environment of relatively chance activities (accidental in the
relation they bear to insight and thought) into one of activities selected with reference to
guidance of learning. A slight inspection of the improved methods which have already shown
themselves effective in education will reveal that they have laid hold, more or less consciously,
upon the fact that "intellectual" studies instead of being opposed to active pursuits represent
an intellectualizing of practical pursuits. It remains to grasp the principle with greater
firmness.

(ii) The changes which are taking place in the content of social life tremendously facilitate
selection of the sort of activities which will intellectualize the play and work of the school. I watched carefully, and composing the glasses I notary
asked in a tone of tedious.

- What sent you?

He soon recognized me, and opening his arms cried:

- Rodolfo! Rodolfo! "You here? I knew from day to day would come .... Blessed God! And what you
grown! Praise the Lord for allowing me to see you made a baby boy,
one of the most handsome dandy!

Y. .. Above all, I know! I know! As always I'm asking for you. I know you've gone very used
.... Not like these young donkey that to no avail.

Not one of these rascals will bring beef ravine.

The poor old man, overjoyed, delighted in looking at me and hugged me, and went through my larguiluchas
cheeks and bloodless hands.

- Come in, boy, go to the room .... I have really wanted to talk to you. And your aunt? As
always, eh? The poor things always afflicted and infirm .... At any time thinking the nephew, the
nephew pampered.

Love him a lot, Rodolfo! For you ... Miracles! ... But, do I have to tell you, when you're
so good and so Noblot! Come in, boy, happens!

He said this stroking and pushing me forward, between the double row of seats. The boys opened
his eyes to see me as surprised by the strange sweetness of his master.

Near the table stood Don Roman, he turned toward the small fry, and cried solemnly in a tone of
sermon:

- This, this that you see, is one of my most beloved disciples.

Many times, many, I have spoken to him. It's smart, good student .... Take him as a model. This
it does not I was, like you, so many disappointments, it matches itself did not Galician, and
knew by heart the pasts, and understood, as a teacher, the sweet Virgil, the concise Tacitus,
and Asia and pomposísimo Cicero.

I expected myself.

Miracle did not finish the speech with some hexameters appropriate.

The boys to hear the familiar epithet, smiled mischievously, a sign that the nickname for the
teacher for us ten years ago, still in use. The rascal laughed and looked at each other with joyful
faces of devils.

- Let: - continued - I give the morning to you to celebrate the arrival of my disciple very loved.
But, hear me, no one will go until you hear the twelve. Stay here, without making mistakes.
The best day this young man again, and I look, and we'll see, we'll see what your Advances in beautiful
Latin language.

Don Roman raised his head and added:

- You, Pancho Martinez ....

A swarthy lad, lively, of nice appearance, he led.

While the child went to call his teacher I glanced around the room.

Had nothing varied. The same furniture, the same objects, the paper stained with ink, with signs
on covers, recorded a knife tip, the board, the same board from another time at his easel green
domino table occupied by the same books, all well placed. There was the bell, handle broken, and
ink surrounded by feathers, - Don Roman did not use other, - and next to the rod of sapodilla.
On the walls, blackened and chipped, two or three maps yellowish above the master chair, very polished
and resobado, Our Lady of Guadalupe, the patroness of the school before the image a little lamp,
a glass filled with dark blue oil in which floated a dying butterfly.

As soon as we entered the living room he heard the shouts of the school
crowd, festive, playful.

Noise laughter, roar slammed books, a thousand and a thousand voices, frank and cheerful of
freedom happy child.

The old man drew back angrily. He opened the door she rushed overwhelmed by, reminding roaring,
a torrent of laughter naive.

Don Roman, stern and irascible, issued new orders, threatened with stiff penalties, and then making
a gesture of grief, soon erased by resigned expression of sadness, came to the podium.

- Sit down, sit here in this chair. How pleased I am to see you! When you left I thought I do
not see them again .... I'm too old. Did not you see? In February fulfill seventy- two. I
have the aches and desmazalado sad. You consider all this, is not it?

Viejo, sick, lonely and poor! Is not it a sad thing, which breaks my heart, my situation after
working so much? You all are being met. I have disciples in all kinds trades and professions.
Some, in senior positions in politics, which were more disengaged, (Many did not exceed vel quis
quid), others in the Church (two I have already given communion); others, doctors and good doctors,
other lawyers, others, like you, on its way to people meal!

In fact, never worth much, nor for the conduct or by the application, insurance few students gave more
war than I pomposísimo teacher. But that was kind Mr. Don Roman. When they were in their seats,
they were all lazy, incompetent, donkey, then with the exception of those for dissolute end, everyone
was excellent, compliments, utilized.

But the truth is that I always wanted Romao as a child, he treated me with great kindness; rarely
feel my hands the beating of his rule, and that good old man, however their poverty, gave me
lessons for two years, without requiring any extipendio aunts.

I am distressed to see my teacher so sad and dejected, when he was so near the grave. Had I wanted
to be rich, rich, for protection against the misery, give him all he wanted, and buy for him,
if that were possible, health and youth.

- Did I mention I'm poor?

Well, I'm poorer than you can imagine. I have few disciples. You saw how many! Only two, some scams
that are going to salt all day, a few rogues who have no choice. What we do! My son, nobody
wants their children to learn Latin. You say! The Latin that is the key to science! Or Latin, or
anything else, all I can teach you everything I know, as you learned
here!

Say I'm late, that my teaching is anachronistic, have you heard?
"Anachronistic?

That will tell pedantic today, and all because mumble French. That's what the learned here
all they know, and now they do not want to confess that I owe everything. They say they no longer
serve to anything .... Why anything?

Well, they are not put before me, and open the Tacitus, or Terence,
and translate the passage that I would bring?

But yes, without the help of French versions ... Hey, what hurts me most, what comes to me
as I live, so I tear the heart, I feel here, like the blade of a knife, is that they say ....--
The poor old man wanted to mourn; his face contracted painfully, his voice was getting shaky,
his eyes peered a tear, - say ...-- and eventually made an effort - what I'm senile!

It broke my heart to see poor old man. He cried like a child. Eager relief comfort and vexed by
the wickedness and ingratitude, opened his soul, simple and full of pain, a poor boy who years
earlier was his disciple and phrases which he hoped compassionate terms of endearment.

- And as they say I'm senile, and as go repeating that everywhere I missing disciples I need
disciples and missing work, and unemployed, as you understand, I need money. There is no cure!
I will die of hunger, and bury me alms. Ten or twelve disciples low paying, and how! A few
little lessons and nothing else!

- Don Roman, - I answered - no folded. Nothing is eternal times vary ... the best day ....

- Yes, my son, vary the times, who can doubt it, but not for me! I have no more than prepare to die
a Christian. Poverty, misery, hunger, contumelies, all suffer with patience. What saddens me
and me bitter, it saddens and disturbs me is ingratitude.

- Do not folded, teacher. Instead you have the gratitude and love of many.

- Down? That no! - Said in a burst of energy .-- That no! Nobody will be surrendered. On the
contrary: arrogant, with pride dignity. So I do not want. Whenever solicitor settle accounts with
those ungrateful to these charlatans. Let him say Augustine, that macuache, learned here, here,
everything he knows, and is now Director, (I do not know what you can handle!) of Director of
the "National School!". The other day - here he smiled satisfied
the good old man - the other day, published in "La Voz de Villaverde"

(the paper that they released when the election of the Chief Political), a papasal, giving it strong
spirit, free thinker, and I, - the Dominie spoke softly, as if afraid that he might hear - what
I did? I took the pen, and I put mockery mocking gold and blue.

I sent "The Mountains" three press sucks way street.

Son: My man saw fire, and screamed, kicked, raged. The best day, then let me rheumatism, over
an article he Morrocotudo, Latin, Latin crisp and Cicero, and then we'll see, we'll see if he can
understand a word ... One! And another! Other How well you dance! "Ocaña, Ocaña Jacinto, who
came from Pluviosilla as wise as a kerbstones, and now runs the "School
of the Cure?"

This does not speak ill of me in the gossip, not me in the periodic
insults or makes fun of my gray hairs in Meconium pharmacy, no, but
one day in "El Puerto de Vigo" in the shop of my friend Don Venancio,
when approaching the exams, said he wanted me to Synod to school because
my method is "anachronistic."

Where did he get the buzzword? That said, why I made the speech on 16 September. I did not go to the
exams. The priest, who is a person Excellency, invited me, but chuck! I was not, I was not! ...
What was to be this poor old man! Ocaña wine then give me satisfaction, and a thousand hypocrisy
that I refused him .... Liar! If I knew it all from the mouth of Junior, the son of my friend
Don Venancio, who is my disciple. The boy told me the thing of the pa pe. But, my son, never mind
that. I very happy, I'm glad to see so great! Tell me, did you learn it? Are you going to continue
their studies? Follow them, follow them, you will make good race. I still remember the Latin, right?
Already we'll see. You will come, and see if you can translate a little something that I have saved
around: an ode Salic at Stony, our red Tiber. I like it, I am sure that you have to like!

Struck twelve in the tower of the parish, and in other churches of Villaverde. Bells home town! Grave
and solemn of the parish, screaming and dissonant those of Christ; annealed at San Antonio, very
compassionate and majestic Franciscan convent.

Again the noise, the shouting, the closing of books and the din of
drawers.

- I see those little devil! - Upset the old man said .--
awaits me or go?

Look: see a night by night I'm here, do not go out ever. At night there I have to deal with the
herd; see and hear the Odita. But before you give me a hug! Oh, boy, if you are already a man!
Di your aunts that go beyond.

IX

On the way out I stopped at the corner a few minutes. Ahead of me a group of children coming
from the 'National School', cheerful, talkative, brin bags with shoulder strap, very careful in
their ink, some bottles sealed with a cork and hang in the balance The crooks got caught in the
right hand index.

Almost advancing step beside me to pass some disciples of Don Roman, with the Nebrija under his
arm, serious, serious, proud, highly paid of their science, as people of very high knowledge. While
stopped school in the corner to take on the flattest of the curb a game of marbles or donkeys,
Latinos 'pomposísimo Cicero' long continued, turning to me with some mocking, impertinent
curiosity. At the end of the street in front of a store, a cart, pulled by a team, awaiting
the departure of the farmhands. Was loaded with barrels of rum and loaves of sugar-white, whose crystals
were wounded by the sun, sparkled with diamond lights. Animals, narrowed eyes, seemed to slumber.
The ox on the left, a beautiful Sardinian beef remained motionless,
the other white, streaked with black, whipping their backs with tail
to shoo the flies that harassed.

In the back of the wagon, on the rail, rested crinosa pica.

As I go, in every street, in windows and doors, I saw faces that were not new to me. When I look
at them as they were played loosely, back in the hidden corners from my memory.

Men and women looked at me earnestly and carefully examined my suit,
surprised the cut of my clothes, tight pants, then the use, of the
American cortita; of my red tie (which villaverdinos said of "Chinaco
'); of my hat curved, white, dotted with black spots, as if I had
it sprayed ink.

Formerly the villaverdinos abroad were coming to their picturesque city, for of derision and amusement.
Laugh begun by the color of their dress and their way of carrying hair. Whispered to him in
his beard, cut a coat, and then ended by imitating what censored - and in the worst way.

A long time ago that I put my feet in Villaverde, and I understand that my countrymen are now
over cult, because there I write, and I say they are not so: they no longer like to present poorly
dressed, they adopt the correct fashion, and that the tailor is villaverdinas
figurines are new every three months.

But then, when the events that befell I refer, was something else. The most handsome wearing
suede boots, the charro suit, poorly done and poorly chosen, was the usual, so the riders and
the neighboring Cocora Pluviosilla, where there has always been, even among the workers and
rural people, charros very Galanos, called Villaverde the dandies of the "Charrito of mud."

In the plaza of the city emblazoned nothing had changed: the parish was intact, equal, as I left
ten years earlier, with its graceful tiled dome, ruined tower, opening the weight of the bells "average"
- as Don Román - the grass grown in the cemetery; the front of the
temple, spontaneous festooned with ferns along the cornices shone
serum palms, and crowned with handsome plumage the crest above the
villaverdinos place everywhere.

Leaning against the tower, where cracks and leper roll the clock breaking colonial, with its field
marble and golden needles, invisible for anyone who saw from afar,
because the hidden the branches of magnificent cypresses, in whose
shadow the dandies shelter each Sunday, Mass after noon, they settle
down to see the girls coming out of mass very all dressed up and attack.

Quadrant a cleric melancholy, pensive, smoking, and an Arab front of his tent in the lower corridor
of the Municipal House a tattered police, with a rifle on his shoulder, walking, and back
in the Calle Real, miserable trade center villaverdino, a train, a beggar, and Dr. Sarmiento,
very quickly, thrown his hat to the neck; figure unchanged, eternal
type of physician short stocks.

The square, or rather the center of her garden in the past, thanks to the efforts of a Prefect
Santa Anna, was preserved as I left. Amid the secular power, wide basin eight sides with granite
fountain in the form of artichoke, which came out strongly thick
stream of clear water, when the winter gale made him pieces flooding
contour tiles.

The wall of masonry was crumbling and peeling, the chipped and crumbling banks, and the orange
trees that surrounded the fountain, anemic, devoured by ants. In a bed, the only one who seemed
such, some hardwood floors and shining, enflorecidas and gallant.

Drew my attention to the side of the temple, a new building, a magnificent house, bright appearance,
great for Villaverde and that place where everything is mean and vulgar. Linda house, eaves airy, with wide
and ripped windows, iron gates, windows elegant and marble thresholds.

The

living room windows were open. The luxurious furnishings, drapes, walls papered, mirrors, large
pictures with very fine engravings depicting biblical scenes (The
marriage of Isaac, Ruth and Boaz, Rebekah at the well), everything
pointed to the wealth of who lived there.

It sounded superb piano brilliantly.

Skillful hands he played in a flask highly applauded, "The falling leaves', dreamy and languorous
music that betrayed a melancholy performer.

I stopped near a gate.

Then I could descry inside: pretty garden, large and cool corridors,
railings pots filled with roses, camellias and azaleas, cages and
little cage, an aviary full of canaries that sang rejoicing.

In a mirror, fronting the window, see who played. She was a young blonde, wearing modest white
suit, one of those muslin dresses thread, fresh, light, fluffy, both nubile girls feel: outfits
worn with the unique charm chicks Villaverde and Pluviosilla. What graceful stool fell around
the undulating line of that skirt!

After the redowa, the beautiful young lady continued to play on the
keyboard. First, lightning-fast scales, whose notes popped like beads
on a necklace, then favorite passages, favorite subjects - a melodic
fragment, lulling and delightful.

Suddenly, when I least expected
it, he left the toilet seat. Closed the piano and ran the window.

Linda,
magical creature! But alas! I could not contemplate. I went ahead,
and went softly impressed. I felt that I heard behind me the noise
of the billowing chiffon skirt. I had to return the face value.

Why
at that moment I thought of Matilde, the sweet girl of my first love?
Ay! Why I thought I saw before me a pained face, crying and in pain,
the face of Angelina?

Minutes later, upon entering my house, came
to meet me the gentle maid. She was radiant joy. At me, lit ... and
looked down.

X

Andrew came to visit. I invited him to take a stroll
along the banks of the river, and then I said my aunts were in poverty.
To hold in school, but I shall not want, had done all sorts of sacrifices.
Cut back on spending at least possible, and worked from day to night,
sewing, tailoring and canned pastas, and making artificial flowers.
At one time cigarettes twisted "The port of Vigo." But the best day
sick aunt Carmen. Disease, common in Villaverde at the entrance of
the summer, fell on the bed. Dysentery passed, but the poor old woman
was infirm. Although apparently healthy, was wound incurable disease. Naturally, this application of physical science (which was the most conspicuously
perceptible one) strengthened the claims of professed humanists that science was materialistic
in its tendencies. It left a void as to man's distinctively human interests which go beyond
making, saving, and expending money; and languages and literature put in their claim to represent
the moral and ideal interests of humanity.

(d) Moreover, the philosophy which professed itself based upon science, which gave itself out
as the accredited representative of the net significance of science, was either dualistic in
character, marked by a sharp division between mind (characterizing man) and matter, constituting
nature; or else it was openly mechanical, reducing the signal features of human life to illusion.
In the former case, it allowed the claims of certain studies to be peculiar consignees of mental
values, and indirectly strengthened their claim to superiority, since human beings would incline
to regard human affairs as of chief importance at least to themselves. In the latter case,
it called out a reaction which threw doubt and suspicion upon the value of physical science,
giving occasion for treating it as an enemy to man's higher interests.

Greek and medieval knowledge accepted the world in its qualitative variety, and regarded nature's
processes as having ends, or in technical phrase as teleological. New science was expounded
so as to deny the reality of all qualities in real, or objective, existence. Sounds, colors,
ends, as well as goods and bads, were regarded as purely subjective--as mere impressions in
the mind. Objective existence was then treated as having only quantitative aspects--as so much
mass in motion, its only differences being that at one point in space there was a larger aggregate
mass than at another, and that in some spots there were greater rates of motion than at others.
Lacking qualitative distinctions, nature lacked significant variety. Uniformities were emphasized,
not diversities; the ideal was supposed to be the discovery of a single mathematical formula
applying to the whole universe at once from which all the seeming variety of phenomena could
be derived. This is what a mechanical philosophy means.

Such a philosophy does not represent the genuine purport of science. It takes the technique
for the thing itself; the apparatus and the terminology for reality, the method for its subject
matter. Science does confine its statements to conditions which enable us to predict and control
the happening of events, ignoring the qualities of the events. Hence its mechanical and quantitative
character. But in leaving them out of account, it does not exclude them from reality, nor relegate
them to a purely mental region; it only furnishes means utilizable for ends. Thus while in
fact the progress of science was increasing man's power over nature, enabling him to place
his cherished ends on a firmer basis than ever before, and also to diversify his activities
almost at will, the philosophy which professed to formulate its accomplishments reduced the
world to a barren and monotonous redistribution of matter in space. Thus the immediate effect
of modern science was to accentuate the dualism of matter and mind, and thereby to establish
the physical and the humanistic studies as two disconnected groups. Since the difference between
better and worse is bound up with the qualities of experience, any philosophy of science which
excludes them from the genuine content of reality is bound to leave out what is most interesting
and most important to mankind.

3. The Present Educational Problem. In truth, experience knows no division between human concerns
and a purely mechanical physical world. Man's home is nature; his purposes and aims are dependent
for execution upon natural conditions. Separated from such conditions they become empty dreams
and idle indulgences of fancy. From the standpoint of human experience, and hence of educational
endeavor, any distinction which can be justly made between nature and man is a distinction
between the conditions which have to be reckoned with in the formation and execution of our
practical aims, and the aims themselves. This philosophy is vouched for by the doctrine of
biological development which shows that man is continuous with nature, not an alien entering
her processes from without. It is reinforced by the experimental method of science which shows
that knowledge accrues in virtue of an attempt to direct physical energies in accord with ideas
suggested in dealing with natural objects in behalf of social uses. Every step forward in the
social sciences--the studies termed history, economics, politics, sociology--shows that social
questions are capable of being intelligently coped with only in the degree in which we employ
the method of collected data, forming hypotheses, and testing them in action which is characteristic
of natural science, and in the degree in which we utilize in behalf of the promotion of social
welfare the technical knowledge ascertained by physics and chemistry. Advanced methods of dealing
with such perplexing problems as insanity, intemperance, poverty, public sanitation, city planning,
the conservation of natural resources, the constructive use of governmental agencies for furthering
the public good without weakening personal initiative, all illustrate the direct dependence
of our important social concerns upon the methods and results of natural science.

With respect then to both humanistic and naturalistic studies, education should take its departure
from this close interdependence. It should aim not at keeping science as a study of nature
apart from literature as a record of human interests, but at cross-fertilizing both the natural
sciences and the various human disciplines such as history, literature, economics, and politics.
Pedagogically, the problem is simpler than the attempt to teach the sciences as mere technical
bodies of information and technical forms of physical manipulation, on one side; and to teach
humanistic studies as isolated subjects, on the other. For the latter procedure institutes
an artificial separation in the pupils' experience. Outside of school pupils meet with natural
facts and principles in connection with various modes of human action. (See ante, p. 30.) In
all the social activities in which they have shared they have had to understand the material
and processes involved. To start them in school with a rupture of this intimate association
breaks the continuity of mental development, makes the student feel an indescribable unreality
in his studies, and deprives him of the normal motive for interest in them. 

'Say hello from us to Dona Gabriela, to Gabrielita and Don Carlos, and say we want mejorcito
child is. "

It gave me heart skip a beat I did not think in the P. Herrera, or that he was ill. Struck me Linilla
hunch that not writing for any other cause, and, indeed, I thought
I guilty, and I thought that Angelina guessed that Miss Gabriela stole
my love.

Linilla not like me, loves me not Linilla; Linilla want to forget, - I thought. And then oh misery
of the human heart! the poor girl took my thinking, and when I met Gabriela the entrance to the room
I thought it was another woman, another young woman or anyone who caused me interest or was
sympathetic to me. During dinner I talked about Angelina, her beauty, sweetness of his character,
his discretion, your skills and how much everyone loved her in home. Gabriela welcomed the praise
very happy, and repeated as I said enthusiastically. It treated P. Herrera, and Carlos said
he was very worthy of occupying the highest positions in the diocese,
he deserved to be bishop, and his extreme modesty, he was relegated
to the Sierra, in a remote village that was like a Thebaid.

Then we went to the room.

- Gabriela, - said Don Carlos - sit at the piano and play something!

Miss obeyed, and for an hour, until eleven o'clock, he knew he was playing was please his father.

I
read the newspapers, but I heard no music or me I learned the news. My thoughts and my heart
were elsewhere. I felt pleased with me. The conversation about Linilla had been, in my view,
as a test of loyalty, as a manifestation I love public. Linilla would be happy, his heart would
say its not love Rodolfo another, that his Rodolfo lived only for her, that his Rodolfo is unable
to forget. The idea Linilla ceases to love me filled me with dread
and I promised to be faithful to me even more beyond the grave.

The idea that I could lose Linilla so haunted me, and such I had so besieged that I wanted to fly
in search of the girl and said:

- Linilla, forgive me, forgive me! I missed my promises! I've forgotten
a moment, but just a moment! For pity's sake! Do not deny me your
love! ... Watch live only for you, for you, Linilla mine!

I kept
lying in music. The stationary and traction steam engine, gasoline engine, automobile, telegraph
and telephone, the electric motor enter directly into the lives of most individuals. Pupils
at an early age are practically acquainted with these things. Not only does the business occupation
of their parents depend upon scientific applications, but household pursuits, the maintenance
of health, the sights seen upon the streets, embody scientific achievements and stimulate interest
in the connected scientific principles. The obvious pedagogical starting point of scientific
instruction is not to teach things labeled science, but to utilize the familiar occupations
and appliances to direct observation and experiment, until pupils have arrived at a knowledge
of some fundamental principles by understanding them in their familiar practical workings.

The opinion sometimes advanced that it is a derogation from the "purity" of science to study
it in its active incarnation, instead of in theoretical abstraction, rests upon a misunderstanding.
AS matter of fact, any subject is cultural in the degree in which it is apprehended in its
widest possible range of meanings. Perception of meanings depends upon perception of connections,
of context. To see a scientific fact or law in its human as well as in its physical and technical
context is to enlarge its significance and give it increased cultural value. Its direct economic
application, if by economic is meant something having money worth, is incidental and secondary,
but a part of its actual connections. The important thing is that the fact be grasped in its
social connections--its function in life.

On the other hand, "humanism" means at bottom being imbued with an intelligent sense of human
interests. The social interest, identical in its deepest meaning with a moral interest, is
necessarily supreme with man. Knowledge about man, information as to his past, familiarity
with his documented records of literature, may be as technical a possession as the accumulation
of physical details. Men may keep busy in a variety of ways, making money, acquiring facility
in laboratory manipulation, or in amassing a store of facts about linguistic matters, or the
chronology of literary productions. Unless such activity reacts to enlarge the imaginative
vision of life, it is on a level with the busy work of children. "Lemon and milk!" In the open spaces of walkers played the bull rogues.
The kids burned Chinese firecrackers and rockets, and all was bustle and confusion. Not far
from me a superabundant old fry their donuts plasticity. The thin membrane, white, very smooth,
was within minutes of the knee buñolera of the napkin nivea, a boiling pan, butter screaming to
take over the mass, which is fluffy in thousand vials, and soon left the donut inviting and tempting,
but dismissing some cloying fragrance.

From time to time, a rocket start tearing up the air, burst into the heights, and burst into jets
of fire, white lights, green, red, glazing with national colors the dark sky. Thundered in
the court the shooting Morterero Marquesas busting bomb, lit up with lightning-fast and clear,
dome and tower.

- Here, Rodolfo! - "Miss me from the lamp .-- You see how beautiful collection.

And I was twenty or thirty watercolors, flowers, fruits and birds,
painted masterfully.

Gabriela never saw more beautiful! Gallant wore a blue suit, a faded blue, pale the color of the sky
on a fall morning.

- We will put in that window. Leave the other for Pepillo so much fun with these things ....

I
repeat, never seemed more beautiful blonde lady.

When looked at in light of the lamp I saw and wrapped in a golden atmosphere. All my projects
came to earth passion asleep woke up panting, and the image of Linilla
present so far in my memory, suddenly vanished in the darkness of
oblivion.

I felt no strength to the Gabriela beauty, defeated, overwhelmed.

- Very cool wind blows ... rare thing in this month.

Surely it has rained in the mountains .... Are not you cold? I do. Is it because I'm very nervous.
I'll get a coat.

He went to the bedroom.

My eyes followed .... Soon came wrapped in a shawl very wide, Plush silk purple.

- You see - he said, sitting in a rocking chair - close to the castle
we ....

At that moment in front of us rose to fifty feet from the
sidewalk, a tree fire the main piece, which was greeted by jubilant
rogues with shouting.

The disciples of flats returned to the fray with festive polka, 'Harlequin',
much in vogue in the fall of the Empire and popularized by the famous
musicians of the Austrian Legion.

- I wanted to talk to you, Rodolfo.

I have to tell many things I have to give very happy news ....

-
Joyful news?

- Yes, very happy ....

- Let's see what they are.

-
Does not deserve you, my friend, I trust those of my heart.

No, certainly not! You have not been frank with me. Linilla thought you and loved each other,
and I said, I wanted to you had me a friend, a sister who would tell you their joys and sorrows
.... And you, Rodolfo, I told the truth ....

- Well, - he went happily - I do not pay in the same currency. I know that love, true love is shy
and modest, who does not like revealing secrets, that strives to live in hiding .... You deserve apology!
 We have before us the need
of overcoming this separation in education if society is to be truly democratic.

Summary. The philosophic dualism between man and nature is reflected in the division of studies
between the naturalistic and the humanistic with a tendency to reduce the latter to the literary
records of the past. This dualism is not characteristic (as were the others which we have noted)
of Greek thought. It arose partly because of the fact that the culture of Rome and of barbarian
Europe was not a native product, being borrowed directly or indirectly from Greece, and partly
because political and ecclesiastic conditions emphasized dependence upon the authority of past
knowledge as that was transmitted in literary documents.

At the outset, the rise of modern science prophesied a restoration of the intimate connection
of nature and humanity, for it viewed knowledge of nature as the means of securing human progress
and well-being. But the more immediate applications of science were in the interests of a class
rather than of men in common; and the received philosophic formulations of scientific doctrine
tended either to mark it off as merely material from man as spiritual and immaterial, or else
to reduce mind to a subjective illusion. In education, accordingly, the tendency was to treat
the sciences as a separate body of studies, consisting of technical information regarding the
physical world, and to reserve the older literary studies as distinctively humanistic. The
account previously given of the evolution of knowledge, and of the educational scheme of studies
based upon it, are designed to overcome the separation, and to secure recognition of the place
occupied by the subject matter of the natural sciences in human affairs.

1 The Influence of Greek Ideas and Usages upon the Christian Church. pp. 43-44.

Chapter Twenty-two: The Individual and the World

1. Mind as Purely Individual. We have been concerned with the influences which have effected
a division between work and leisure, knowing and doing, man and nature. These influences have
resulted in splitting up the subject matter of education into separate studies. They have also
found formulation in various philosophies which have opposed to each other body and mind, theoretical
knowledge and practice, physical mechanism and ideal purpose. Upon the philosophical side,
these various dualisms culminate in a sharp demarcation of individual minds from the world,
and hence from one another. Come to bed. Nothing is more harmful to health
that this mischievous fashion of Madrid to make the day night and night into day.

- I'm coming - said Agnes.

He continued the housekeeper, who always accompanied her, helped her to undress, and get dressed,
and never away from her at night until she was in bed.

The bedroom of Agnes was set with singular care and cleaning. On the bureau, in a glass case,
they saw a San Antonio de Padua, package, made of clay and painted not vulgar artist. Young Ghost,
glory in Lisbon was very cute face, had good colors, as if life does
not do him penitent dent by the grace of God, and showed ecstatically
happy and contemplating the Child Jesus, who was in his arms and lavished
a thousand gifted favors.

Poor Inesita bed, three chairs and a small table was over which had writing materials were the
same neatness. Completed the furniture a pine cabinet glass doors, within which there were several
books and not a few curiosities and beauties of almost no value, but there were guarded as if
they were the most portentous objects art. There appeared, placed in good order, the wise men
and some shepherds and shepherdesses of a former birth, an angel,
two dolls dressed in a long bath, and several boxes and juguetillos
other witness who gave keeper was thorough and its beautiful owner.

The Inesita linen was in the comfortable, and the dresses and other
finery were kept in a dark little room, immediately to the bedroom,
where he perches, and where covered some indiana old quilts and coconut.

Inesita

first thing he did was hide the letter with the more openly between the pillow his bed and cover.
Then quietly left the housekeeper to help her undress, which was work a few minutes. And he
was finally in bed, her hair gathered no network or cap, but rich and adored loose skein.

Ines said he had no desire to sleep, and asked the housekeeper to let her light to read in
a devotional book for half an hour even. The love, however reluctantly, had to bring veladorcito
to bed and leave him a lighted candle.

During all this was not idle the language of love. Inesita almost always answered in monosyllables,
eager to have ended talk and be alone, but the mistress was in the
mood that night and not just with his thoughts and speeches.

Among other things said:

- Daughter, I can not reach the taste you can have your sister and her husband live in this
maze of the court. How much better we were in our town! Truth is that there salary was more vile,
but ... if there is a penny over here with a hard ... I confess, I'm drowning in these tabuquillos
and cupboard in which we live. How I miss those patios, those corrals of my land! In the kitchen
of Mr. Cure could all this room and too much room! And then ... living so high ... as perched!
Boy, there are steps to get here! And this is not the worst. The worst thing is the little or
no case here to make it. Madrid still I have no person to talk. Back in town, what a delight!
Out me on the street and there was no dog or cat that does not tell me: "God save at his mercy, goodbye,
love Teresa. How do you spend, ma'am? "And other things like that. Here there is no soul I address
the word and give me the good morning. Then everything is expensive, you eat gold or is necessary
dieting, or spend much money eating there. Begin shortly thrushes, and in our land reach up
to five quarters to get a pair. Go you to eat here two as fat as those thrushes. Ya, ya ... I
command you work ... On which there are none ... Y take ... If any, would cost an arm and a leg.
In faith, then you liked you little thrushes!

What eels? How about frog legs? None of this is our scope here but when they ring loud.

- Do not be greedy, love, do not be greedy, do not remember much of pots of Egypt, as I said Monsieur
le Cure, who used to scold you for that vice of gluttony - Ines said laughing.

- It's not gluttony, ungrateful.

I'm sorry for you, not me. I just dish alboronía or a gazpacho.

On the other hand, I'm not mourning only food but also other things.

And I mourn with good reason.

And if not, we are free ... Do you think it is so easy that in Madrid you skip a good boyfriend?

-
Let it ... I did not jump. If I'm not looking forward to having a boyfriend.

- Well, what do you have? What on earth are to have the girls?

- No woman, no ...

- No, miss, it is necessary to skip a good boyfriend and get married. Your sister is great, you
brother is a saint, but you should live life with them and half at
their expense.

Inesita sighed, and continued love:

- In the town, for you, you're a real girl, how he had to miss a rich
landowner, a homeowner or farmer with the kidney well covered, which
aspire to your hand?

But here I find it difficult. The rich go to the Marquesas duped and duchesses, or a thousand rascal
bad breed, who exploit them. What's left for poor girls like you? Nothing ... the cheesy nickname
that usually prodigaros ... and a liquid Don degollante, more shame and hunger more traps than average
living.

- Who knows, loves? - Said Ines -. Do not worry so much about me. God will provide. Goodbye,
and let me alone.

The housekeeper was forced to leave. He kissed his girl, and advised to turn off soon light and
fall asleep, they left the room, carefully closing the door.

Ines was not well in the desert, pulled out of hiding the letter and read as follows:

"My dear lady and dear friend: Despite the respect that I have always treated you, you will not
have noticed the more than brotherly love since you were a little girl teachers. The class difference
between you and me and my lack of fortune, gave me no never mind, while you were here, nor
could I even dream that you expect him to do so I said, accepting my hand. Since you lack the people
God has favored me, bless my work and sleepless nights, and I already
have incomes and means to live here with family, almost as well as
the wealthy.

This change or improvement in my position and the consideration that your sister and her husband
took an honest man and poor, and you should not be any more ambitious
and demanding that she give me after the boldness that I have missed
to the day, and I have to declare that I love and that I should be
the happiest of men if you come to me.

"I know the nobility and generosity of heart to you, and I know I will never marry you by simple
calculation, but I'm not so thoughtlessly enthusiast who does not understand that by giving
important step as the link for all and raise a family, not to be consulted, weighed and measured
the difficulties in life, and the resources that exist to overcome them. For the latter, I tell
you frankly, do not believe that it's offended, I have today Pretty good. From what I can tell
you I own circumstances, his brother and friend My Don Braulio.

"As for me, you know me and decide. I know you do not deserve it, but the love makes me bold,
and implore him to lend me the merits that I need.

"I do not want you to decide at once, but after most careful consideration,
so that not have to repent of lightness.

The life of Madrid must have special attractions for girls. I want to see you in Madrid, and
know and appreciate all these attractions, to renounce them, knowing what waiver, when I give
a yes, if by that I given.

If you would join your fate to mine, would be respected and loved here, and the surround yo
anything that might be pleasing, to the welfare and culture of these places I agree, but you
would have to abandon all idea of ​​returning, were not a step large
cities.

My ambition and all my life plans are coded in care my flow and doing more in this town where I
live also my children, if God's given me. Why put a period to the answer I want, and I beg you not give
me the rush.

My impatience is great, but I restrain my impatience when this is my lifelong happiness, and above
all, of you, I is a thousand times more expensive.

"I have a whim and caprice call him because it would be neat state here the grounds on which is founded:
I have a fancy to you, in full freedom, without anyone to influence
their advice for or against, decide my fate, rejected, or favoring.

"So this statement of mine is a secret to everyone, including his wife's sister you, Dona Beatriz.
Only Don Braulio know the step I take, but he has promised Don Braulio
not advocate for me, and just give you the reports you requested.

"I will wait until within a month, at least. Do not attribute you coldness of my soul this long
wait that I impose.

Atribúyalo the idea so high that I have the solemnity and therefore commitment to induce you
to enter.

"I said to you to, but not you that dude, even despised, will always
admiring your affectionate and loving, Paco Ramirez.

"

Inesita read this letter with very great satisfaction, showing it in the lipstick that animated and
lit his face. No one, however, that would have been in that moment, except for powers supernatural
to read souls, if satisfaction had discovered was just vanity to
be loved, or even love for the person who was determined to woo her.

Read the letter, Inesita rose from bed, opened the top drawer of the dresser and kept the letter
in it locked up.

Then lay down again, turned off the light and placed comfortably to meditate perhaps on content of
that document, and sleep at last.

VI

The next morning, Ines and Don Braulio, while Dona Beatriz, less early bird that , was still in
bed, had a long conversation about the letter undoubtedly Paco Ramírez.

Then they went to church together the two sisters, then all had lunch, and finally, Don Braulio,
not without promise before that night would lead to the two girls of the Gardens Buen Retiro,
went to the Ministry of Finance. Although Sunday, Don Braulio prompted his departure, or gave
an excuse for it, assuming it was extraordinary occupations.

Back in his office, where no one had come over him, Don Braulio, instead of studying records,
long time was sitting with his elbows on his office and hands on the cheeks, studying himself.
This study should not give very satisfactory results.

Don Braulio sighed several times, knit his brows, showed some anger taking some punches, and
eventually relent and shed two tears, slowly sailed her face.

Then, as by way of ease and comfort, Paco Ramírez wrote the following letter:

"Dear Paco: Last night I fulfilled your request with all the requirements and precautions that
you gave me. Beatriz ignored and will ignore the step you have taken. Agnes is very secretive.
As the effect of reading your letter may have had on his mind, I do not know what to say.
This morning I spoke with Agnes, but the heart of a maiden is impenetrable, unfathomable as an
abyss.

Modesty, candor, innocence, all these garments, men believe long, are no longer a thick veil,
but a high, thick wall, which serves to repair heart to not be noticed or read what it mind
reading. Hence the deception men often have more clear, but are not cheating when you no longer have
Remedy: After marrying.

"Inesita seems, and I think that is candid, good, frank, everything you can imagine, but does
not leave you to discover not whether or not, but if your letter has not been flattered and
flattered. That's right: she has been very grateful for the affection and confidence that
inspires you. In terms I infer also told me something very important. If Agnes had thought reflectively
this other thing would be something to censor much thought, but I
think she feels one instinctively, not realizing comprehensive, and
sensible, however, fair. In sum, Agnes does not calculate or thinks,
but feels and perceives that your plan is bad and caused the error.
You will offer to be decided in a month or for the pleasures of this
capital, for the triumphs self-esteem can be here and ambitious hopes
which may be incurred in soul, or for yourself, your love and your
hand. This would be discrete if there were no circumstances it spoils
and has discovered her at once.

"It is this fact of your absence.
Missing you and present all such property, apparent or Real, who has
to leave for you, the game is not the same. Not you who struggle,
but your memory, which, if one side is worth less than the individual,
on the other hand may be worth much more if it beautifies poetry.
In short: Inesita not going to leave this for you, because you prefer,
but for the recollection of you, who has not seen for three years.
The memory also have to be confusing, incomplete, diverse lot, and
it will be completed and transform it with fantasy. She will not be
remembered as a woman remembers a man, as a bride remembers her boyfriend,
but as a young girl remembers her older brother. Has, then add the
imaginary quality of loving and thinking about you other than to now
thought.

"All this and more, you will understand without my saying
so, is stirred in the mind of Agnes. I interpret, perhaps I'm wrong,
but it seems to me that she wonders: "Would I like Paco, when he saw
him in town, as it should like a boyfriend to his girlfriend? "I loved
only brother? And if I liked as a boyfriend, was it because he deserves
it or because the people I had not seen other men who deserve it more?
Do not be happening to me now poetic Paco in my memory, and to find,
when you see him, well under the memory itself? In its own soul, can
not be such a phenomenon? Whatever it is, explain it as want to explain,
it is certain that nothing I said that I loved when we lived together,
and Now, I do not see three years ago, I declared his love and wants
to marry me. What is this? "Agnes does not answer such questions.
It does not solve any doubt that the assault.

Moral philosophies which have started from such premises have developed four typical ways of
dealing with the question. (i) One method represents the survival of the older authoritative
position, with such concessions and compromises as the progress of events has made absolutely
inevitable. The deviations and departures characterizing an individual are still looked upon
with suspicion; in principle they are evidences of the disturbances, revolts, and corruptions
inhering in an individual apart from external authoritative guidance. In fact, as distinct
from principle, intellectual individualism is tolerated in certain technical regions--in subjects
like mathematics and physics and astronomy, and in the technical inventions resulting therefrom.
But the applicability of a similar method to morals, social, legal, and political matters,
is denied. In such matters, dogma is still to be supreme; certain eternal truths made known
by revelation, intuition, or the wisdom of our forefathers set unpassable limits to individual
observation and speculation. The evils from which society suffers are set down to the efforts
of misguided individuals to transgress these boundaries. Between the physical and the moral
sciences, lie intermediate sciences of life, where the territory is only grudgingly yielded
to freedom of inquiry under the pressure of accomplished fact. Although past history has demonstrated
that the possibilities of human good are widened and made more secure by trusting to a responsibility
built up within the very process of inquiry, the "authority" theory sets apart a sacred domain
of truth which must be protected from the inroads of variation of beliefs. Educationally, emphasis
may not be put on eternal truth, but it is put on the authority of book and teacher, and individual
variation is discouraged.

(ii) Another method is sometimes termed rationalism or abstract intellectualism. A formal logical
faculty is set up in distinction from tradition and history and all concrete subject matter.
This faculty of reason is endowed with power to influence conduct directly. Since it deals
wholly with general and impersonal forms, when different persons act in accord with logical
findings, their activities will be externally consistent. There is no doubt of the services
rendered by this philosophy. It was a powerful factor in the negative and dissolving criticism
of doctrines having nothing but tradition and class interest behind them; it accustomed men
to freedom of discussion and to the notion that beliefs had to be submitted to criteria of
reasonableness. It undermined the power of prejudice, superstition, and brute force, by habituating
men to reliance upon argument, discussion, and persuasion. It made for clarity and order of
exposition. But its influence was greater in destruction of old falsities than in the construction
of new ties and associations among men. Its formal and empty nature, due to conceiving reason
as something complete in itself apart from subject matter, its hostile attitude toward historical
institutions, its disregard of the influence of habit, instinct, and emotion, as operative
factors in life, left it impotent in the suggestion of specific aims and methods. Bare logic,
however important in arranging and criticizing existing subject matter, cannot spin new subject
matter out of itself. In education, the correlative is trust in general ready-made rules and
principles to secure agreement, irrespective of seeing to it that the pupil's ideas really
agree with one another.

(iii) While this rationalistic philosophy was developing in France, English thought appealed
to the intelligent self-interest of individuals in order to secure outer unity in the acts
which issued from isolated streams of consciousness. Legal arrangements, especially penal administration,
and governmental regulations, were to be such as to prevent the acts which proceeded from regard
for one's own private sensations from interfering with the feelings of others. Education was
to instill in individuals a sense that non-interference with others and some degree of positive
regard for their welfare were necessary for security in the pursuit of one's own happiness.
Chief emphasis was put, however, upon trade as a means of bringing the conduct of one into
harmony with that of others. In commerce, each aims at the satisfaction of his own wants, but
can gain his own profit only by furnishing some commodity or service to another. Thus in aiming
at the increase of his own private pleasurable states of consciousness, he contributes to the
consciousness of others. Again there is no doubt that this view expressed and furthered a heightened
perception of the values of conscious life, and a recognition that institutional arrangements
are ultimately to be judged by the contributions which they make to intensifying and enlarging
the scope of conscious experience. It also did much to rescue work, industry, and mechanical
devices from the contempt in which they had been held in communities founded upon the control
of a leisure class. In both ways, this philosophy promoted a wider and more democratic social
concern. But it was tainted by the narrowness of its fundamental premise: the doctrine that
every individual acts only from regard for his own pleasures and pains, and that so-called
generous and sympathetic acts are only indirect ways of procuring and assuring one's own comfort.
In other words, it made explicit the consequences inhering in any doctrine which makes mental
life a self-inclosed thing, instead of an attempt to redirect and readapt common concerns.
It made union among men a matter of calculation of externals. It lent itself to the contemptuous
assertions of Carlyle that it was a doctrine of anarchy plus a constable, and recognized only
a "cash nexus" among men. The educational equivalents of this doctrine in the uses made of
pleasurable rewards and painful penalties are only too obvious. (iv) Typical German philosophy
followed another path. It started from what was essentially the rationalistic philosophy of
Descartes and his French successors. But while French thought upon the whole developed the
idea of reason in opposition to the religious conception of a divine mind residing in individuals,
German thought (as in Hegel) made a synthesis of the two. Reason is absolute. Nature is incarnate
reason. History is reason in its progressive unfolding in man. An individual becomes rational
only as he absorbs into himself the content of rationality in nature and in social institutions.
For an absolute reason is not, like the reason of rationalism, purely formal and empty; as
absolute it must include all content within itself. Thus the real problem is not that of controlling
individual freedom so that some measure of social order and concord may result, but of achieving
individual freedom through developing individual convictions in accord with the universal law
found in the organization of the state as objective Reason. While this philosophy is usually
termed absolute or objective idealism, it might better be termed, for educational purposes
at least, institutional idealism. (See ante, p. 59.) It idealized historical institutions by
conceiving them as incarnations of an immanent absolute mind. There can be no doubt that this
philosophy was a powerful influence in rescuing philosophy in the beginning of the nineteenth
century from the isolated individualism into which it had fallen in France and England. It
served also to make the organization of the state more constructively interested in matters
of public concern. It left less to chance, less to mere individual logical conviction, less
to the workings of private self-interest. It brought intelligence to bear upon the conduct
of affairs; it accentuated the need of nationally organized education in the interests of the
corporate state. It sanctioned and promoted freedom of inquiry in all technical details of
natural and historical phenomena. But in all ultimate moral matters, it tended to reinstate
the principle of authority. It made for efficiency of organization more than did any of the
types of philosophy previously mentioned, but it made no provision for free experimental modification
of this organization. Political democracy, with its belief in the right of individual desire
and purpose to take part in readapting even the fundamental constitution of society, was foreign
to it.

3. Educational Equivalents. It is not necessary to consider in detail the educational counterparts
of the various defects found in these various types of philosophy. It suffices to say that
in general the school has been the institution which exhibited with greatest clearness the
assumed antithesis between purely individualistic methods of learning and social action, and
between freedom and social control. The antithesis is reflected in the absence of a social
atmosphere and motive for learning, and the consequent separation, in the conduct of the school,
between method of instruction and methods of government; and in the slight opportunity afforded
individual variations. When learning is a phase of active undertakings which involve mutual
exchange, social control enters into the very process of learning. When the social factor is
absent, learning becomes a carrying over of some presented material into a purely individual
consciousness, and there is no inherent reason why it should give a more socialized direction
to mental and emotional disposition. 

Carare below appears to oppose, also beautiful river, whose sands studded with gold serve of
milk to a gentle stream, deep and clear. And what memories of seeing the mouth of that river! It
was there that Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada, conquistador of the New Kingdom of Granada, entered in
1536, dominating as supreme incredible difficulties and dangers, history, to be fair, you should
consider this issue as the most heroic, the most extraordinary conquistador anyone has ever driven
and accomplished.

If Yélez territories Relief and sent to the Magdalene its beautiful water quota of rivers and Opon
Carare, both browsers and delicious, the highlands of Tunja and Pamplona contribute their wealth
of Sogamoso or Colorado River, which flows near the new port of Barrancabermeja. Here, Magdalena
highly enriched with the wealth of so beautiful rivers, making grandiose proportions that make
it impressive, while the beautiful islands that arise here and there, one very large (the Morales),
give the landscape, beautifully lit, an incredible resemblance to the lower Danube, judging
from the I've sailed.

Below the State of Antioquia Sogamoso contribute (in addition to the Honey and Nare rivers) with
the romantic and beautiful river of the Scimitar, which recalls the eternal storms prevailing minerals
in the hills of a ridge of the same name that separates the region of Antioquia those of Simití
and Majagual. The rowers have concerns that a thousand bizarre hidden river bed of gold dust
and dark and impenetrable woods, and have many legends, making the sign of the cross on the dangerous
metal seekers who, having gone to within the course of the river, have not gone back to look
more in Mompos. The inhabitants of Saint-Paul village situated at a short distance from the confluence
of the Scimitar, to make responsible Mohan or Huan, terrible god of the caves and the great wells
of rivers, of the misdeeds committed by the jaguars, snakes and solid blacks to the detriment
of the unwary seekers gold. HOWEVER, I must state that the Mohan such a character does not strike
me as absurd as belief, if you notice that the bottom line is the Devil, but a devil poetic, highly
romantic, and therefore superior, under the artistic point of view
and spiritual, the mundane and vulgar devil sends us believe the Holy
Mother Church.

Saint-Paul (and incidentally there to say that almost all people below are sanctified by a name)
is a funny little town, very poor and humble, but a picturesque local color. First is the red
cliff overlooking the Magdalena, dotted with huts fishermen of the strangest forms, then the
village, consisting of two straight roads 40 or 50 very whitewashed thatched cottages, all separated
and the shade of a multitude coconut, mango and orange trees, behind the dark gray strip of dense
jungle, and ultimately term the distant mountains that separate western
Antioquia state of immense valley Magdalena. In the second place, there are variations of point of view,
of appeal of objects, and of mode of attack, from person to person. When these variations are
suppressed in the alleged interests of uniformity, and an attempt is made to have a single
mold of method of study and recitation, mental confusion and artificiality inevitably result.
Originality is gradually destroyed, confidence in one's own quality of mental operation is
undermined, and a docile subjection to the opinion of others is inculcated, or else ideas run
wild. The harm is greater now than when the whole community was governed by customary beliefs,
because the contrast between methods of learning in school and those relied upon outside the
school is greater. That systematic advance in scientific discovery began when individuals were
allowed, and then encouraged, to utilize their own peculiarities of response to subject matter,
no one will deny. If it is said in objection, that pupils in school are not capable of any
such originality, and hence must be confined to appropriating and reproducing things already
known by the better informed, the reply is twofold. (i) We are concerned with originality of
attitude which is equivalent to the unforced response of one's own individuality, not with
originality as measured by product. No one expects the young to make original discoveries of
just the same facts and principles as are embodied in the sciences of nature and man. But it
is not unreasonable to expect that learning may take place under such conditions that from
the standpoint of the learner there is genuine discovery. While immature students will not
make discoveries from the standpoint of advanced students, they make them from their own standpoint,
whenever there is genuine learning. (ii) In the normal process of becoming acquainted with
subject matter already known to others, even young pupils react in unexpected ways. There is
something fresh, something not capable of being fully anticipated by even the most experienced
teacher, in the ways they go at the topic, and in the particular ways in which things strike
them. Too often all this is brushed aside as irrelevant; pupils are deliberately held to rehearsing
material in the exact form in which the older person conceives it. The result is that what
is instinctively original in individuality, that which marks off one from another, goes unused
and undirected. Teaching then ceases to be an educative process for the teacher. At most he
learns simply to improve his existing technique; he does not get new points of view; he fails
to experience any intellectual companionship. Hence both teaching and learning tend to become
conventional and mechanical with all the nervous strain on both sides therein implied.

As maturity increases and as the student has a greater background of familiarity upon which
a new topic is projected, the scope of more or less random physical experimentation is reduced.
Activity is defined or specialized in certain channels. To the eyes of others, the student
may be in a position of complete physical quietude, because his energies are confined to nerve
channels and to the connected apparatus of the eyes and vocal organs. But because this attitude
is evidence of intense mental concentration on the part of the trained person, it does not
follow that it should be set up as a model for students who still have to find their intellectual
way about. And even with the adult, it does not cover the whole circuit of mental energy. It
marks an intermediate period, capable of being lengthened with increased mastery of a subject,
but always coming between an earlier period of more general and conspicuous organic action
and a later time of putting to use what has been apprehended.

When, however, education takes cognizance of the union of mind and body in acquiring knowledge,
we are not obliged to insist upon the need of obvious, or external, freedom. It is enough to
identify the freedom which is involved in teaching and studying with the thinking by which
what a person already knows and believes is enlarged and refined. If attention is centered
upon the conditions which have to be met in order to secure a situation favorable to effective
thinking, freedom will take care of itself. The individual who has a question which being really
a question to him instigates his curiosity, which feeds his eagerness for information that
will help him cope with it, and who has at command an equipment which will permit these interests
to take effect, is intellectually free. Whatever initiative and imaginative vision he possesses
will be called into play and control his impulses and habits. His own purposes will direct
his actions. Otherwise, his seeming attention, his docility, his memorizings and reproductions,
will partake of intellectual servility. Such a condition of intellectual subjection is needed
for fitting the masses into a society where the many are not expected to have aims or ideas
of their own, but to take orders from the few set in authority. It is not adapted to a society
which intends to be democratic.

Summary. True individualism is a product of the relaxation of the grip of the authority of
custom and traditions as standards of belief. Aside from sporadic instances, like the height
of Greek thought, it is a comparatively modern manifestation. Not but that there have always
been individual diversities, but that a society dominated by conservative custom represses
them or at least does not utilize them and promote them. For various reasons, however, the
new individualism was interpreted philosophically not as meaning development of agencies for
revising and transforming previously accepted beliefs, but as an assertion that each individual's
mind was complete in isolation from everything else. In the theoretical phase of philosophy,
this produced the epistemological problem: the question as to the possibility of any cognitive
relationship of the individual to the world. In its practical phase, it generated the problem
of the possibility of a purely individual consciousness acting on behalf of general or social
interests,--the problem of social direction. While the philosophies which have been elaborated
to deal with these questions have not affected education directly, the assumptions underlying
them have found expression in the separation frequently made between study and government and
between freedom of individuality and control by others. Regarding freedom, the important thing
to bear in mind is that it designates a mental attitude rather than external unconstraint of
movements, but that this quality of mind cannot develop without a fair leeway of movements
in exploration, experimentation, application, etc. A society based on custom will utilize individual
variations only up to a limit of conformity with usage; uniformity is the chief ideal within
each class. A progressive society counts individual variations as precious since it finds in
them the means of its own growth. Hence a democratic society must, in consistency with its
ideal, allow for intellectual freedom and the play of diverse gifts and interests in its educational
measures.

Chapter Twenty-Three: Vocational Aspects of Education

1. The Meaning of Vocation. At the present time the conflict of philosophic theories focuses
in discussion of the proper place and function of vocational factors in education. The bald
statement that significant differences in fundamental philosophical conceptions find their
chief issue in connection with this point may arouse incredulity: there seems to be too great
a gap between the remote and general terms in which philosophic ideas are formulated and the
practical and concrete details of vocational education. There will win
a little more.

- I fear one thing ....

- What?

Do not serve the purpose?

- Yes ... What I mean things of the field!

-
Learn, boy.

Do not be shy, because you'll never do letter.

You'll be very happy there.

Fernandez is a very fine person. Treat your employees well. And if you do not, you obliged not
to miss .... Farewell, my boy! I have around a sick amount gravity, a rancher, who is flying
to another world.

Tendióme hand, adding:

- Nothing to say that Castro Pérez employment in Santa Clara.

Huh? Already warned. Hush! Do not grieve to see your aunt. That's nothing!

The patient was quiet, access had happened. However, the night was painful. Angelina and my aunt passed
it straight. From my room I heard them coming and going.

Then I realized all the devotion of the maiden. He took care of the old sweet and kindly, daughter
affectionately.

Thin and kind to all, with her extreme her delicacies. The pampered; all their wishes were
commands to Angelina, and suffered resigned dislikes and reprimands, capricious evil sick
humor, that nothing is happy, and are impatient without reason.

- This girl - I talked Aunt Pepa - is an angel, I think that's why they got Angelina. No have
restful sleep, every night up two or three times to see Carmen and give food and medicine.
I do not like it, because it has an obligation to ensure your aunt. It's my turn. I already said,
but she would not, for anything in the world, I got up I at the wrong time. The other day,
as I said I was going to watch Carmen, I said a little Mohina as impatient and annoyed, "No,
ma'am. If I do it gladly! You no longer is for that. By day you have a lot to work. No, no,
the day that I do not want to do, I do not. " Look, Rorra: I think Angelina has to stop at Sister
of Charity. One day we talked about that came out saying: "Yes, ma'am, why not?" And it is very
capable of being a model Sisters of Charity to teach the same children, to care for ill. Mr.
Cura said the other day, at Don Roman, who is not at Conferences San Vicente another member as
Angelina. It is now secretary of the Conference of the Parish and everyone is very happy. I
do not know if Angelina will be born to be married, but the truth,
Rorra, if you marry Angelina to give me pleasure, much, much, yes,
because I love as much as you, as she deserves, because it would all
be at home, because that girl I regard it as something we, as a person
of the family.

XXI

Villaverde rejoices from time to time, and has its festivals and popular rides. No always be sad
and moody.

On May 3 the villaverdinos come to the grassy mall Santa Catalina. Pass morning in the alleys of brush,
walk around the neighborhood gather at the "solar" and there they will eat the traditional turkey mole,
tamales and beans, in the shadow of orange and 'jinicuil "murmuring.

In the afternoon, men and women, old and young and children up to the hill of brush, where an old
drunk, and half mad by the spirits, and well known of my countrymen, drives a large wooden cross
on a rock on the eastern slope, to the sound of music, the bursting
of firecrackers and firing of Morteretes.

But the most beautiful promenade is the second of November, in a small
town located near the edge left of the Barranca de Mata Thick, not
far from the point where rapid and foaming plunges the Stony, forming
picturesque waterfall.

Run through the streets that day and you will see empty Villaverde. Everyone is on tour; the poor as
well as the rich.

They leave their families early in the morning, before the hot sun after hearing two or three Masses
for the dead.

There in the damp, wooded streets of Old Town, you will find all villaverdinos: some on horseback,
wearing the quarrelsome and well caparisoned horse, tight pants, hat El Zarape sumptuous and multi-colored,
others old and rickety carriages, the more, gentlemen steed in San Francisco.

From the village entrance principle positions - the "vintages" as they say in Villaverde -
the inns and taverns, improvised under a canopy of cloth, or the shade of an arbor. For fruit
vendors everywhere, towers, peanuts, of "tepache" biscuits and candy. Ice cream, soft drinks,
spirits, everything is out there. Are there things to all tastes. From afar mole perceive the smell
of boiling in large pots, and I will stunned the incessant shouting of the vendors, kids screaming,
and singing bacchanalian of the craftsmen who have taken the "fox."

The villagers, indigenous vicious and lazy, their homes are invaded by the crowd, and scared
to walk indizuelillos the coffee or poke through the fences of grass to watch the passersby. Call
them, and immediately start running like deer pursued.

In the thickets smell copal burned, and the street to the door of the cabins a trail of "cempaxóchiles"
will lead you to where he was the "offering" dedicated to the souls of those who left this forever
world of pain.

It is curious to note that my countrymen, Buddhists villaverdinos never rejoice and rejoice in a day
so dreary and so painful memories. Could not be otherwise in the city of the "sad souls."

I
sighed at the College for that party and that walk! So to see Aunt Carmen While I was headed
for Old Town. The evening was splendid, a beautiful autumn afternoon, fresh and bright. The crowd
swarmed on the wide street, doors and windows were curdled of pretty girls, and it meant a
series of festive and happy people, so picturesque and beautiful, you do not ever forget. Some who
were loud and talkative, sometimes returning tired, penitent, carrying the basket of food. Waiters dazzled
by alcohol, who stopped to woo the girls, honest parents who were scrambling to maximum offspring, while
the wife was bringing in arms to rebel brat crybaby. Further, an old man of black coat before
and now litmus de la Vela Perpetua brother, brother of the Third Order of St. Francis, the baker
brand blue shirt, purple sash, white fringe, and hat to the calves,
some ranchers, very smug with Calzonera corduroy hat and braid; a
laundry, a hurricane that made noise with stiff petticoats, a gachupincillos,
vendors clothing or dependent on "El Puerto de Vigo", dupes, newcomers,
rough feet, looking at all with protective breeze, a half dozen villaverdinos
fops, riders on good horses, and at last, alone in the overo finished
shopping, the mayor's son.

That afternoon you can admire the beauty of the cutest girls in Villaverde. Simple dress modestly
beyond the fashions and costumes for Paris modosita, shy, prudish, sad, as if at fifteen began to be old, big
girls, which I thought no illusions no hope, and for whom the world was reduced to quiet hometown.
The most aristocratic, - which Villaverde aristocracy also - moved slowly. Not go to Old Town
or would visit the waterfall, it would be half way into the house
of any friend, there are would seat, and installed in the curb lawn
carpeted with amused passersby.

The carriages went tumbling fatal, and the riders taking sparks the
pavement, the Escarce snails cavalry.

Here and there, a porter, a craftsman or some tacky Pasadita the fort, giving mayatazos.

Not a cloud in the sky. The beautiful blue sky, the sun setting behind the hill the brush,
and magnificent mountains to the northwest, the snowy foot of Citlaltépetl.

I wore entertained with the sight of that merry crowd, when discerned
Castro Pérez.

Came very tired, weary, like a dog panting, leaning on cane gold
cuff, rolled on his shoulders the Spanish cloak, thrown his hat into
the neck cup.

Had gone for a walk through the alleys of Old Town prosopeya their
fluffy.

When he saw me he stopped:

- Friend: are you going to where all is not it? I come half dead!

- Did you get to the waterfall?

- Heaven forbid! I did not pass the door, and I can not with my humanity.

He lies back, and looking over the glasses added:

- Yesterday I wrote
to Lopez .... I will be glad to give you the job.

I like young people like you. We'll see! We'll see if I find in my new clerk what I want and I searched
ever: a young "smart, active and useful ..."

- Tomorrow I will take you there.

- Well! Well! At nine .... At nine o'clock! ... I really like the accuracy.

I was going to follow the conversation, but the lawyer interrupted me abruptly, holding out
Hand said:

- Goodbye! That you have fun!

As soon as I left Castro Pérez, when I heard a noise behind me to
light wagon.

It sounded as other vehicles Villaverde, as rickety old car or diligence. Rang with that white noise,
compact, sumptuous train, we do feature women beautiful and Privanza. I looked and found an
open carriage, new, brand, high-wheeled and light where the sun shone.

They occupied the car a gentleman of noble appearance, gray beard
and a young lady who drew the looks of the crowd for its beauty and
elegance of his suit.

He was wearing dark colored and had his head covered with a lace cap upon which highlighted a
rose Alexandria. Galanos A group of riders stopped to say hello. Was Gabrielita. The car flashed.
I paused for a moment, and continued with a curious look lovely miss,
sometimes dazzled by the reflection of the setting sun that sparkled
in the bright carriage wheels.

XXII

I went punctually to the appointment of counsel. I waited in the corner near the appointed hour,
sound and watch it in the parish I went to the office. The jurist, a great early riser, had
returned from Mass and the customary walk around the mall Santa Catalina, or Forest Pancracio
de la Vega, and very set in his easy chair awaiting the arrival of his new clerk.

- Go ahead, young man - he said aloud .-- Go! Well! Well! I place the accuracy! Take your seat.
I'll tell you what their obligations here. There is much work here, but it is good to know you,
my friend, not here wasting time!

- You can order what you like ...-- said, sitting in a chair in the
eye of partridge, very old and wavering.

- Will you come at eight
o'clock, sharp, as now.

At eight ... You know what I mean? In point! Will you at one, time
to go eat. In the afternoon, at three o'clock.

In point three! We will work till five. At that time you can withdraw. When we have something extraordinary
work to complete. But this only happens from time to time. Do you agree? Yes? Well, stay fixed! If
you go to get closed dispatch signal is still not back or I'm taking
a nap.

Then you ask the keys to the girls, and opens you.

Now, at another point. Do not want to reward work you and others, in a way eventually, to fall.
So it was with others, but with you is another thing. I consider him to you and your family, and I
am pleased to protect youth and future ready, so I decided to bring to you a fixed salary. So no you
will be exposed to harmful contingencies to their interests.

He paused, looked at me up and down, adding:

- Will you fifteen dollars a month. I think that to begin is an amount ... Very decent! ...

It was a misery, no doubt, but given my circumstances, I found that
the award amount fat.

In more polite terms replied that he appreciated the favor, and would try to match to trust that
I dispensed.

Pérez Castro interrupted me

- Boy: I promise to find in you what I have so desired, which until
now could not get: a scribe active, intelligent and useful.

Do not waste your time. In this room find you need to write. We will send, before beginning to reach
customers. You'll see. This is outrageous! Not stop all day. This looks like a Jubilee.

He got up and went to the next room.

- Take your seat. In fascist! I will dictate a letter.

I put in "fascist."

Pérez Castro pulled his green velvet cap embroidered with gold, so of fez, with a large tassel
hanging back and swung like a pendulum. My man consisted glasses, and his hands behind, hidden
under the skirts of his greasy coat, began to walk, while I, with
paper and ready before the boom, I was about to write.

After long silence, during which the jurist picked up his ideas, and
coughed and blew with the huge bandanna, spoke in very emphatic tone:

-
City Judge .... Two points!

And going and coming, Castro Perez gave lengthy argument, style heavy, diffuse, truly tiring, paved
with Latin phrases and quotes from the games, (my man he knew them by heart) and full of a thousand
beauties and wonders of legal jargon.

Pérez Castro boasted of being a "dictator" of first force, as Caesar, Elizabeth, Napoleon and
the Archbishop Munguia. It is true that dictated smoothly and without hesitation, without was
necessary to repeat the previous sentence, but he echoed the clerk, whispering hissed the last syllable
of the final word, but what went well. Sorry for all unhappy heart to judge who would have to
take to the doublet the indigestible hodgepodge, and I feared boredom that judgments against
those sponsored by Castro Perez.

I read aloud the allegation. My man was satisfied.

- Well! Well, "- said .-- Many logic!

See these Latins.

Do not put them beyond reproach. Then I did observe very carefully, that he had escaped a Galician
agreement, one of those matches for which we so often punished Don
Roman.

- No, young man, - said Castro Pérez upset - that's right!

In that amendment, that no me the flat, my friend. That's right! So it should be! Remind yourself
that the Nebrija Reglita ....

And not said.

My man went on:

- Friend: You know that stuff that I do not fear anyone, not even
his teacher López you it's worth, it is true that the picky grammar!

Scholars had long controversy him and me. Wrote more than Tan. Roman said he should say "villaverdino
', I, who we say 'vilarverdino. " The victory was for me.

Indeed, in Villaverde all said and wrote "villaverdino" until, at the wrong time, occurred to
a journalist question the successful formation of the buzzword.

It ruffled roost: left to contest the "pomposísimo ', came to the fore Castro Pérez, Charles the
teachers to the taste, the thing came to City Hall, and aldermen were subject to several sessions.
Villaverde was divided into two camps, "villaverdinos" one, "vilaverdino"
the other, and armed of God is Christ.

The schoolmaster and the lawyer said a thousand dirty tricks, the reporter went hut, and the Buddhist
city was long entertained by the controversy.

Finally, the State Government put an end to disputes. Issued a circular that fell as a pump
in Villaverde. With this circular the Executive endorsed the opinion of Castro Perez.

Since then, my beloved hometown everyone says and writes "vilaverdino" less Romao not give up.

Lawyer
signed his plea, he took off his embroidered fez, took his hat and
cane, and went to the street.

I just left the lawyer came to examine the office. It was the typical
office provincial law.

Two pieces. In one, which was intended to scribe, some shelves with papers and files dusty, moth-eaten,
pamphlets and newspapers in bundles tied with string Campeche, a
secular table covered with green cloth folder, inky, big inkwell lead,
a marmajera of the same metal cabinet two feathers worthy of an archaeologist,
and a black cashmere scrap to clean the feathers, coming undoubtedly
some pants old lawyer.

Opposite the table, a bench and three rickety chairs convent for customers waiting audience.
The whitewashed walls, floor brick dirty. What need were there a spittoons!

Looked better Pérez Castro's cabinet. Walls, floor and ceiling equal to those of another piece.
Neat, as was possible, given the negligence of its owner, the cabinet may deserve my attention.

Was
cold, cold polar feel they lose a lawsuit, and ruined, and stay to ask for bread because of
an employer ignorant, stupid or slothful.

Furniture: two shelves of cedar, with chicken wire, filled with old books, folios monumental
aged scrolls that nobody played, none of whom put in hand, and that
would be made dust.

And that, he told me one day Castro Pérez, worth much, much, much!

- No, young man - the lawyer repeated stroking the abdomen .-- In these books there is science.
All that now deprives you find it there.

In those tomes that you see there, so neglected by scholars to violet, is where today's scholars
drink whatever is good in brand new theories, which is low. And then we present their latest,
most pompous and paid self! This is very hair that said a famous musician an innovator. In
all these wisdoms Today's lawyers need not new, neither good .... But ... Neither good is new,
or New is good!

Yes, young man should not be taken as a joke or with the things my conceit old: in those heavy
volumes is science, true science.

Almost in the center of the cabinet, a table, a large table covered
with green baize, which fell to near the ground, revealing the feet
of furniture, a lion's claws or tap water spherules paths that they
stuck in the burgeoning nails, as wretched famished hawk prey.

Loaded with bundles and tomes, that table did not feature in the wide open space surface. Lavish
detail of that mountain of papers, valuable silver inkstand, (no use, because Castro Perez served
as a lead) a true colonial inkwell of Judge Rich, next canon or a bishop, with a bell that served
as a lid.

In between that range of forgotten records, of which up to its owners had long forgotten, and there
by clusters of illustrious Papiniano stubborn procrastination villaverdino,
from among that heap of paper yellowing and dusty rose a crucifix
a Christ-size, made in Guatemala, in the words of Don Juan.

The divine image, fixed in tree with four silver brads, I felt like,
in that place, appropriate sign of resignation.

Factions haggard, pale face, bruised temples, sharp nose, dull eyes, lips parted in agony,
it seemed that way to the tomes cast into oblivion, painful look
strangely compassionate mercy.

The only modern furniture that was there was a mahogany armchair,
a gift from a client grateful. It sprawling legal expert with the
severity of the bishop in pontifical mass.

Near the window, on a
pale carpet, two "butaque" medellineros, leather resobado and glossy,
and a great armchair, incomparable to nap. The curtains of the window,
at one time white, were now wet ash color, and its folds were visible
ravages of the moth.

Fronting the window, on a table between two
porcelain vases, a clock crystal a lyre, with the gold and copper
sphere of blue glazed figures, under whose broken beacon parties were
caught with paper wool. The way to remember the hobbies that clock
poetic legal expert. Standing, always silent, always pointing the
same time, it seemed scary as eternity.

Between a shelf and the wall
was another clock weights, in long, narrow box ebony always walk,
always fixed. Before a low growl of his bowels of copper, let go a
hundred bells chiming in high-pitched, dissonant, and then with profound
gravity given time: ton! Ton! Ton! ...

For me, seeing those clocks
would say, one for customers, the weight, the other is the glass for
sir.

On the right, next to the window, a painting attributed to Cabrera:
San Juan Nepomuceno, clothing Angelopolitana as a canon, presenting,
gripped with the thumb and forefinger of his right hand a little thing,
red as strawberry summer bloody tongue, acabadita cutting. The face
martyr's causing me laugh, it was a silly face, pale and smiling,
no majesty, no nobility, without the words corresponding to August
this illustrious saint.

On the left, in a gilt frame, under glass
and bordered with gold-green on a black background a portrait of Don
Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna, in full uniform, neck cross Guadalupe.

One
well was in my house. The good of my Aunt Pepa relegated him to fourth
in the bathroom.

- There is good! - Say, when did you notice the
desecration .-- There, there is good! In this damn old we all our
misfortunes!

At about ten customers began arriving. The
problem is not that of making the schools an adjunct to manufacture and commerce, but of utilizing
the factors of industry to make school life more active, more full of immediate meaning, more
connected with out-of-school experience. The problem is not easy of solution. There is a standing
danger that education will perpetuate the older traditions for a select few, and effect its
adjustment to the newer economic conditions more or less on the basis of acquiescence in the
untransformed, unrationalized, and unsocialized phases of our defective industrial regime.
Put in concrete terms, there is danger that vocational education will be interpreted in theory
and practice as trade education: as a means of securing technical efficiency in specialized
future pursuits. Education would then become an instrument of perpetuating unchanged the existing
industrial order of society, instead of operating as a means of its transformation. The desired
transformation is not difficult to define in a formal way. It signifies a society in which
every person shall be occupied in something which makes the lives of others better worth living,
and which accordingly makes the ties which bind persons together more perceptible--which breaks
down the barriers of distance between them. It denotes a state of affairs in which the interest
of each in his work is uncoerced and intelligent: based upon its congeniality to his own aptitudes.
It goes without saying that we are far from such a social state; in a literal and quantitative
sense, we may never arrive at it. But in principle, the quality of social changes already accomplished
lies in this direction. There are more ample resources for its achievement now than ever there
have been before. No insuperable obstacles, given the intelligent will for its realization,
stand in the way.

Success or failure in its realization depends more upon the adoption of educational methods
calculated to effect the change than upon anything else. For the change is essentially a change
in the quality of mental disposition--an educative change. This does not mean that we can change
character and mind by direct instruction and exhortation, apart from a change in industrial
and political conditions. Such a conception contradicts our basic idea that character and mind
are attitudes of participative response in social affairs. But it does mean that we may produce
in schools a projection in type of the society we should like to realize, and by forming minds
in accord with it gradually modify the larger and more recalcitrant features of adult society.
Sentimentally, it may seem harsh to say that the greatest evil of the present regime is not
found in poverty and in the suffering which it entails, but in the fact that so many persons
have callings which make no appeal to them, which are pursued simply for the money reward that
accrues. For such callings constantly provoke one to aversion, ill will, and a desire to slight
and evade. Neither men's hearts nor their minds are in their work. On the other hand, those
who are not only much better off in worldly goods, but who are in excessive, if not monopolistic,
control of the activities of the many are shut off from equality and generality of social intercourse.
They are stimulated to pursuits of indulgence and display; they try to make up for the distance
which separates them from others by the impression of force and superior possession and enjoyment
which they can make upon others.

It would be quite possible for a narrowly conceived scheme of vocational education to perpetuate
this division in a hardened form. Taking its stand upon a dogma of social predestination, it
would assume that some are to continue to be wage earners under economic conditions like the
present, and would aim simply to give them what is termed a trade education--that is, greater
technical efficiency. Technical proficiency is often sadly lacking, and is surely desirable
on all accounts--not merely for the sake of the production of better goods at less cost, but
for the greater happiness found in work. For no one cares for what one cannot half do. But
there is a great difference between a proficiency limited to immediate work, and a competency
extended to insight into its social bearings; between efficiency in carrying out the plans
of others and in one forming one's own. At present, intellectual and emotional limitation characterizes
both the employing and the employed class. While the latter often have no concern with their
occupation beyond the money return it brings, the former's outlook may be confined to profit
and power. The latter interest generally involves much greater intellectual initiation and
larger survey of conditions. For it involves the direction and combination of a large number
of diverse factors, while the interest in wages is restricted to certain direct muscular movements.
But none the less there is a limitation of intelligence to technical and non-humane, non-liberal
channels, so far as the work does not take in its social bearings. And when the animating motive
is desire for private profit or personal power, this limitation is inevitable. In fact, the
advantage in immediate social sympathy and humane disposition often lies with the economically
unfortunate, who have not experienced the hardening effects of a one-sided control of the affairs
of others.

Any scheme for vocational education which takes its point of departure from the industrial
regime that now exists, is likely to assume and to perpetuate its divisions and weaknesses,
and thus to become an instrument in accomplishing the feudal dogma of social predestination.
Those who are in a position to make their wishes good, will demand a liberal, a cultural occupation,
and one which fits for directive power the youth in whom they are directly interested. To split
the system, and give to others, less fortunately situated, an education conceived mainly as
specific trade preparation, is to treat the schools as an agency for transferring the older
division of labor and leisure, culture and service, mind and body, directed and directive class,
into a society nominally democratic. Such a vocational education inevitably discounts the scientific
and historic human connections of the materials and processes dealt with. To include such things
in narrow trade education would be to waste time; concern for them would not be "practical."
They are reserved for those who have leisure at command--the leisure due to superior economic
resources. Such things might even be dangerous to the interests of the controlling class, arousing
discontent or ambitions "beyond the station" of those working under the direction of others.
But an education which acknowledges the full intellectual and social meaning of a vocation
would include instruction in the historic background of present conditions; training in science
to give intelligence and initiative in dealing with material and agencies of production; and
study of economics, civics, and politics, to bring the future worker into touch with the problems
of the day and the various methods proposed for its improvement. Above all, it would train
power of readaptation to changing conditions so that future workers would not become blindly
subject to a fate imposed upon them. This ideal has to contend not only with the inertia of
existing educational traditions, but also with the opposition of those who are entrenched in
command of the industrial machinery, and who realize that such an educational system if made
general would threaten their ability to use others for their own ends. But this very fact is
the presage of a more equitable and enlightened social order, for it gives evidence of the
dependence of social reorganization upon educational reconstruction. It is accordingly an encouragement
to those believing in a better order to undertake the promotion of a vocational education which
does not subject youth to the demands and standards of the present system, but which utilizes
its scientific and social factors to develop a courageous intelligence, and to make intelligence
practical and executive.

Summary. A vocation signifies any form of continuous activity which renders service to others
and engages personal powers in behalf of the accomplishment of results. The question of the
relation of vocation to education brings to a focus the various problems previously discussed
regarding the connection of thought with bodily activity; of individual conscious development
with associated life; of theoretical culture with practical behavior having definite results;
of making a livelihood with the worthy enjoyment of leisure. In general, the opposition to
recognition of the vocational phases of life in education (except for the utilitarian three
R's in elementary schooling) accompanies the conservation of aristocratic ideals of the past.
But, at the present juncture, there is a movement in behalf of something called vocational
training which, if carried into effect, would harden these ideas into a form adapted to the
existing industrial regime. This movement would continue the traditional liberal or cultural
education for the few economically able to enjoy it, and would give to the masses a narrow
technical trade education for specialized callings, carried on under the control of others.
This scheme denotes, of course, simply a perpetuation of the older social division, with its
counterpart intellectual and moral dualisms. But it means its continuation under conditions
where it has much less justification for existence. For industrial life is now so dependent
upon science and so intimately affects all forms of social intercourse, that there is an opportunity
to utilize it for development of mind and character. Moreover, a right educational use of it
would react upon intelligence and interest so as to modify, in connection with legislation
and administration, the socially obnoxious features of the present industrial and commercial
order. It would turn the increasing fund of social sympathy to constructive account, instead
of leaving it a somewhat blind philanthropic sentiment.

It would give those who engage in industrial callings desire and ability to share in social
control, and ability to become masters of their industrial fate. It would enable them to saturate
with meaning the technical and mechanical features which are so marked a feature of our machine
system of production and distribution. So much for those who now have the poorer economic opportunities.
With the representatives of the more privileged portion of the community, it would increase
sympathy for labor, create a disposition of mind which can discover the culturing elements
in useful activity, and increase a sense of social responsibility. The crucial position of
the question of vocational education at present is due, in other words, to the fact that it
concentrates in a specific issue two fundamental questions:--Whether intelligence is best exercised
apart from or within activity which puts nature to human use, and whether individual culture
is best secured under egoistic or social conditions. No discussion of details is undertaken
in this chapter, because this conclusion but summarizes the discussion of the previous chapters,
XV to XXII, inclusive.

Chapter Twenty-four: Philosophy of Education

1. A Critical Review. Although we are dealing with the philosophy of education, DO definition
of philosophy has yet been given; nor has there been an explicit consideration of the nature
of a philosophy of education. This topic is now introduced by a summary account of the logical
order implied in the previous discussions, for the purpose of bringing out the philosophic
issues involved. Afterwards we shall undertake a brief discussion, in more specifically philosophical
terms, of the theories of knowledge and of morals implied in different educational ideals as
they operate in practice. The prior chapters fall logically into three parts.

I. The first chapters deal with education as a social need and function. Their purpose is to
outline the general features of education as the process by which social groups maintain their
continuous existence. Education was shown to be a process of renewal of the meanings of experience
through a process of transmission, partly incidental to the ordinary companionship or intercourse
of adults and youth, partly deliberately instituted to effect social continuity. This process
was seen to involve control and growth of both the immature individual and the group in which
he lives.

This consideration was formal in that it took no specific account of the quality of the social
group concerned--the kind of society aiming at its own perpetuation through education. The
general discussion was then specified by application to social groups which are intentionally
progressive, and which aim at a greater variety of mutually shared interests in distinction
from those which aim simply at the preservation of established customs. Such societies were
found to be democratic in quality, because of the greater freedom allowed the constituent members,
and the conscious need of securing in individuals a consciously socialized interest, instead
of trusting mainly to the force of customs operating under the control of a superior class.
The sort of education appropriate to the development of a democratic community was then explicitly
taken as the criterion of the further, more detailed analysis of education.

II. This analysis, based upon the democratic criterion, was seen to imply the ideal of a continuous
reconstruction or reorganizing of experience, of such a nature as to increase its recognized
meaning or social content, and as to increase the capacity of individuals to act as directive
guardians of this reorganization. (See Chapters VI-VII.) This distinction was then used to
outline the respective characters of subject matter and method. It also defined their unity,
since method in study and learning upon this basis is just the consciously directed movement
of reorganization of the subject matter of experience. From this point of view the main principles
of method and subject matter of learning were developed (Chapters XIII-XIV.)

III. Save for incidental criticisms designed to illustrate principles by force of contrast,
this phase of the discussion took for granted the democratic criterion and its application
in present social life. In the subsequent chapters (XVIII-XXII) we considered the present limitation
of its actual realization. They were found to spring from the notion that experience consists
of a variety of segregated domains, or interests, each having its own independent value, material,
and method, each checking every other, and, when each is kept properly bounded by the others,
forming a kind of "balance of powers" in education. We then proceeded to an analysis of the
various assumptions underlying this segregation. On the practical side, they were found to
have their cause in the divisions of society into more or less rigidly marked-off classes and
groups--in other words, in obstruction to full and flexible social interaction and intercourse.
These social ruptures of continuity were seen to have their intellectual formulation in various
dualisms or antitheses--such as that of labor and leisure, practical and intellectual activity,
man and nature, individuality and association, culture and vocation. In this discussion, we
found that these different issues have their counterparts in formulations which have been made
in classic philosophic systems; and that they involve the chief problems of philosophy--such
as mind (or spirit) and matter, body and mind, the mind and the world, the individual and his
relationships to others, etc. Underlying these various separations we found the fundamental
assumption to be an isolation of mind from activity involving physical conditions, bodily organs,
material appliances, and natural objects. Consequently, there was indicated a philosophy which
recognizes the origin, place, and function of mind in an activity which controls the environment.
Thus we have completed the circuit and returned to the conceptions of the first portion of
this book: such as the biological continuity of human impulses and instincts with natural energies;
the dependence of the growth of mind upon participation in conjoint activities having a common
purpose; the influence of the physical environment through the uses made of it in the social
medium; the necessity of utilization of individual variations in desire and thinking for a
progressively developing society; the essential unity of method and subject matter; the intrinsic
continuity of ends and means; the recognition of mind as thinking which perceives and tests
the meanings of behavior. These conceptions are consistent with the philosophy which sees intelligence
to be the purposive reorganization, through action, of the material of experience; and they
are inconsistent with each of the dualistic philosophies mentioned.

2. The Nature of Philosophy. Our further task is to extract and make explicit the idea of philosophy
implicit in these considerations. We have already virtually described, though not defined,
philosophy in terms of the problems with which it deals: and that thing nor even to the aggregate
of known things, but to the considerations which govern conduct.

Hence philosophy cannot be defined simply from the side of subject matter. For this reason,
the definition of such conceptions as generality, totality, and ultimateness is most readily
reached from the side of the disposition toward the world which they connote. In any literal
and quantitative sense, these terms do not apply to the subject matter of knowledge, for completeness
and finality are out of the question. The very nature of experience as an ongoing, changing
process forbids. In a less rigid sense, they apply to science rather than to philosophy. For
obviously it is to mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, anthropology, history, etc. that
we must go, not to philosophy, to find out the facts of the world. It is for the sciences to
say what generalizations are tenable about the world and what they specifically are. But when
we ask what sort of permanent disposition of action toward the world the scientific disclosures
exact of us we are raising a philosophic question.

From this point of view, "totality" does not mean the hopeless task of a quantitative summation.
It means rather consistency of mode of response in reference to the plurality of events which
occur. Consistency does not mean literal identity; for since the same thing does not happen
twice, an exact repetition of a reaction involves some maladjustment. Totality means continuity--the
carrying on of a former habit of action with the readaptation necessary to keep it alive and
growing. Instead of signifying a ready-made complete scheme of action, it means keeping the
balance in a multitude of diverse actions, so that each borrows and gives significance to every
other. Any person who is open-minded and sensitive to new perceptions, and who has concentration
and responsibility in connecting them has, in so far, a philosophic disposition. One of the
popular senses of philosophy is calm and endurance in the face of difficulty and loss; it is
even supposed to be a power to bear pain without complaint. This meaning is a tribute to the
influence of the Stoic philosophy rather than an attribute of philosophy in general. But in
so far as it suggests that the wholeness characteristic of philosophy is a power to learn,
or to extract meaning, from even the unpleasant vicissitudes of experience and to embody what
is learned in an ability to go on learning, it is justified in any scheme. Because I see no remedy for it,
answered. I have been the more affluent neighboring village Derlback, near Babylon; with the
help of my wife to the best curds of the empire, who liked to infinity to queen Astarte and
the famous minister Zadig. Speech delivered to both of hundred houses curd: I went one day to
Babylon to pay me, and I knew that night it had Zadig and queen disappeared. I ran to the house
of Mr. Zadig, whom I had never seen and found great Desterham sheriffs, with a role of the king
in his hand stole very orderly and calm throughout the house. I went down in a twinkling in
the kitchen of the Queen, some of scholarship gentlemen told me that had died, others were imprisoned,
and others said that he had escaped, but all estava answer that I can not pay my curds. We went
with my wife to the house of Mr. Orcan, who was one of my parishioners, he ask for his protection
in our grief, and given to my wife, and me not. It was my wife more white curds that were
the source of my misery, and do not even shine purple Tyro that encouraged having white color,
so he put it Orcan, and gave me his home. I wrote to my wife desperate letter, and responded
to the bearer: Yeah, yeah, I know who I writes, I have talked about it, they say that makes curds
excellent: I am bringing, and they are paid.

I wanted to go to court in my misery.

Quedábanme six ounces of gold was necessary to give two the legal expert I consulted, two to
the attorney who handled my case, and two to scribe the first judge. This done, had not yet
started my pleyto, and I had been more spent money than my curds and my wife were worth the bargain.
I returned to the people with the intention of selling my house for my wife to recover. Valia
is about sixty ounces of gold; but I Vian poor, and in haste to sell. The first to whom I
spoke gave me thirty the second twenty, and the third ten, and was going to take for this price,
according was blind. Wine At the time, a prince of Babylon to Hircania, ravaging the whole country
through which he passed, the qual ransacked my house, and then put fire. Having thus lost
money, wife and home, I retired to the country where you see me, trying to earn my living by
fishing. The fish do teasing me just as the men drew no, and I'm starving, and without you, dildo
August, was about to jump into the River.

No fisherman told his story without many pauses, and to every one was telling Zadig, robbed and out
of it: With what you know nothing of the fate of the Queen? No, sir, "replied the fisherman; I
know, is that neither the queen nor Zadig has paid me my curds that I have stolen my wife,
and I'm desperate. I hope, 'said Zadig, that you have not lost all your money. I've heard of
that Zadig, as an honest man and if he returns to Babylon, but what should I give you, but for
what you do to your wife, who is not honest, aconsejoos prevent you from doing errands to get back
to it. Take my advice, go to Babylon, where before I'll get to you because you are going to walk
and I am going to horse veos the illustrious Cador, tell that you have found his friend, and
wait for me at home: go in peace, that maybe you will not be provided unhappy.

Orosmades powerful, followed me to comfort you have earned this man: who you valdréis to give
me comfort? So said the fisherman giving half of all money brought from Arabia, and the fisherman
kissed the stunned and confused's Friend Cador plants, and we last name his guardian angel.

Zadig
news did not stop to ask, and shed tears.

What, sir, "said the fisherman, You are also unhappy to be beneficial? Hundred times more unhappy
than you, "replied Zadig. How may be, he said the good man, that is the one who gives more to
be pitied than to receive? Because your great misfortune, "replied Zadig, was the need, and
mine depends on the coraron. Would you Orcan stolen to your wife? 'said the fisherman. This
question he brought to mind Zadig all his adventures, and made him go through the list of all
their woes, starting with queen bitch until arrival at the house of the bandit Arboga. Ha,
'said the fisherman, Orcan is worthy of punishment, but these are usually men who are in Privanza
destination. Anyway, go to the house of Mr. Cador, and wait. Separáronse with this: the fisherman
it was giving thanks to his star, and constantly cursing Zadig yours.

CHAPTER XVIII.

The basilisk.

Zadig came to a beautiful meadow, where he saw a crowd of wives who were looking for caring
thing that had seemed lost. He approached one of them, and asked if I wanted that help them find
what they wanted to find. God forbid, said the Syria, what we we can touch only the women. Rare is
it, 'said Zadig: do me please tell me what it is that the women can only touch it? A basilisk,
"she said. A basilisk lady! Why what are you looking for a basilisk? For our lord and master Ogul,
whose palace are watching the banks of the river, and within this field, who are his most humble
slaves. Mr. Ogul is bad, and your doctor has prescribed a basilisk eat boiled in water roses,
and as is very rare animal, and that only the women are catching dexamethasone, has promised Mr. Ogul
to choose for his beloved wife to bring him a basilisk that well
dexádmele look, that you see how much I would lose if one of my colleagues
before I could Topara.

I leave this Zadig to Syria and to all others who seek their basilisk, and continued on his way
the prairie. On reaching the bank of a creek, he found another lady lying on lawns, not looking
for anything. It seemed majestic stature, although he had covered his face a veil. Head was tilted
to Anoy; exhaled from time to time deep sobs and held in his hand a wand with the qual was
esciibiendo letters in a fine sand between lawns and courage mediated. Zadig wanted to see
what he wrote: arrimóse, and saw a Z, then an A, and wondered: then read a D, and gave her heart
skip a beat, but never was both his astonishment, as the two rearward Quando read letters in his
name. Remained motionless for a while, finally breaking the silence, unsure, voice, said: "Generous
Lady, forgive to a hapless foreigner who dares to ask why anything strange encounter here the
name of Zadig, by thy divine hand writing? On hearing this voice and these words, lifted with trembling
hand the lady her veil, myth Zadig, uttered a cry of Temur, wonder and joy, and surrendering
to the various emotions that together embatian his soul fainted in arms. Was Astarte, was the
queen of Babylon, the same as Zadig idolized, and whose love his conscience accused him, those
whose fate had cost so many tears. He spent some time deprived of the use of their senses, and when
their eyes Cluver's eyes slowly Astarte opened again between faint, confused, loving, O immortal
powers! exclaimed, "Restitais me to my Astarte? What time, what site, around to see what state?
Hincóse knees before Astarte, bowing his fiente Baxo dust of your feet. Lift it up the Queen
of Babylon, and I feel it themselves on the banks of the stream, a thousand times enxugar eyes
always bathed in fresh tears. Twenty times ci knotted thread of reasons that blocked her moans; doeth
questions about anything that had gathered, and did not rise to that respond to new questions,
beginning to tell their misfortunes, and wanted to know those Zadig. Having finally both a
little calm the tumult of his breast, he said in brief Perhaps why Zadig was in this meadow. But as
I am, or respectable queen and unfortunate, in this deviant site, dressed in a slave and other
slaves who accompanied looking for a basilisk, for boiling, under a doctor's prescription, in
rose water?

While they are looking for their basilisk, I shall inform you, 'said the fair Astarte, all I
have suffered, and forgive the sky once you get to see you. You know that the king My husband
took it amiss that you were the kindest of all men, and perhaps for this reason took a night
to send you the determination to hang, and give me a tósigo, and also know that compassionate
heaven disposed to let me know my dwarf silent orders of his sublime Majesty. No sooner had I pointed
the faithful Cador to obey and depart, she dared to penetrate by a side door in my fourth at
midnight, I pulled out of the palace, and took me to temple of Orosmades, where I locked her
brother magician into a colossal statue which is based rests on the foundation of the temple,
and the head touches the roof. This was like buried as the magician who served me made sure
that I shall not want. At break of day, entered my quarto of His Majesty the chemist with a
potion of henbane, opium, hemlock, black hellebore, and anapelo, and another officer went to your
house with a blue silk cord; Nias found no to anyone. For more deceive the king, Cador him a false
complaint against two of us, pretending you wore you the way to India,
and mine in Memphis, and sent people in our trackers.

I knew the messengers who were looking fight, because it seldom had shown me face, unless it was
to you, before my husband and by his order. Chasing Ibanme by signs that they had given me, and found
the line of Egypt with other my height itself, and that perhaps was more beautiful. I was in
tears, and walked heedless, so that they did not doubt that she was the queen of Babylon,
and to Moabdar conduxéron. Wroth King violently by mistake, but after having covered more closely
to this woman, saw that it was very beautiful, and was comforted. Missouf was called, a name which,
according to later I am told, means the beautiful Egyptian, capricious, and it was indeed,
but were not in behind their gear to their cravings, while having to Moabdar liked him so
captivated who declared his lawful wife. Manifestóse then frankly its kind, giving unchecked
to all the extravagances of his imagination. Wished to stress the high magician, old and gout,
to which Bayle in his presence, and having refused this, he was haunted by death. In the Horse
I ordered a sweet cake, and since it was not represented baker, all was in vain: he had to make
the cake, and let him go because he was so toast. The office of the Horse was given to his
dwarf, and a page to him tax advice: ruled in this way to Babylon. Llorábame around the world,
and the king, until he had sent me hang and poison had been pretty good, I leave that his virtues
runners to shipwreck on his love of beautiful fanciful. The day of the sacred fire came to the
temple, and I saw him implore the gods for Missouf, prostrate before the statue where I was stuck.
Then raising voice, I said to him: "The Gods dismiss the pleas of a king became a tyrant, and
has wanted to take the life of a woman on trial for marrying a crazy woman. "put these words Moabdar
on such a confusion to which he was the head. In oracle I had pronounced and the tyranny of Missouf
had plenty to lose his reason, and with effect in a few days went crazy.

This madness, which was attributed to punishment from heaven, was the signal for rebellion: amotinóse
the people and took weapons, Babylon, where queen into a pier as long idleness, became theater
of a horrific civil war. They pulled me out of the hole of my statue; They put forward of a party,
and Cador was running to Memphis, to bring him to Babylon. News of such fatal New Prince of Hircania
came with his army to form third party in Chaldea and came to attack the king met him with
his blundering Egyptian. Moabdar died, pierced by a thousand cuts, and fell in the hands of the
victor Missouf. It was my misfortune that I also was caught by a band of guerrillas Hyrcanus, Condux
me into the presence of the prince, at the same time it took to Missouf. Surely ye shall know
that I had the satisfaction for more beautiful than the Egyptian, but shall not be less feeling
for what you say you I devoted to his harem, saying without beating about the bush, then to
conclude a military expedition to qual was scheduled to leave, would come to me. Imagine qual
was my grief: Broken links with Moabdar shook me, could be Zadig, and fell in the irons of a
barbarian. I replied with all the pride that my high large hierarchy inspired me and my affections,
having heard that all my life that people of my dignity of the heavens had endowed of such greatness,
with a word and a look of eyes mingled in the dust of the blue to quanta were reckless daring
to depart from a point in the most reverent obedience. Spoke as Queen, but I was treated like
a maid of pitcher: the Hyrcanus, without even deigning to answer, he said to his black eunuch
that I was swearing, but he seemed nice. Ordered him to me take care and give me the treatment to those
who were in his favor, that I became the colors, and were more worthy of his touch on the day
it seemed appropriate to honor them. Dixel would kill me, and I replied laughing that none
were killed by these things and was used to such niceties, and went as a xilguero dexándome cage.
What situation for the first reyiia of the universe, and more for a heart that was Zadig!

And
he knelt down to hear these reasons, watering with tears plants Astarte. Alzola this affectionately,
and went on to say: Viamed in the hands of a barbarian, and competition
with a crazy who was locked.

Contour Missouf his adventure in Egypt, and for painting that you did, by time, by the dromedary
in ye were mounted, and the other circumstances came to the attention of Zadig was who had fought
in their defense; and no doubt you were in Memphis, I determined to take refuge in this city.
Bella Missouf, I said to him, "you are much more comely than I, and looking for fun rather Hyrcanian
Prince: procuradme means of escape; reynaréis you alone, and you will make me happy, librándoos of
a rival. Missouf helped me to make my flight, and I departed secretly with an Egyptian slave.

Already
played with Saudi, when a robber stole my very name, called Arboga, the qual I sold to some merchants
that they brought me to this palace, where he lives, Mr. Ogul, which I bought without knowing
who I was. This is a glutton, who thinks only of binge well, and
believes that God has put the world to enjoy a bueu table.

He is so excessively fat, which every moment seems he is going to burst. Your doctor is with
him little influx Quando makes good digestion, but when they have high-handedly sends ahitera
and now has made believe that he had to heal with a basilisk boiled in rose water. Has promised
to give hand to the slave that traxere a basilisk, and you see me I leave they deserve the very
high honors, having never been less willing to bump the basilisk that since they have heaven wanted
to come back to see you.

Astarte and Zadig Dixéronse quanto then the most generous and passionate breasts could countered
inspire affection so long and so much love and so much misery, and geniuses that love led preside
reasons of both in the sphere of Venus.

He turned about a fifth of the women Ogul without having found anything.

Zadig was introduced to him, and said to him: the sky Descend the immortal Hygia to dilate
your years. I am a doctor; I've been having heard of your illness, and I am bringing a basilisk
in boiling water Rose, not because I aspire to marry you, I ask only the freedom of a young
slave Babylon, which I sold a few days ago, and I acquiesced to remain a slave in his place, if
I have the joy of healing the magnificent Mr. Ogul.

The proposal was accepted, and went to Babylon, Astarte in the company of Zadig's servant, promising
that he would ship out immediately a messenger to inform had quanto happened. No less than his
recognition were loving their vouchers, because, as written in the great book of Zenda, the two
most solemn times of life is the moment we meet again, and that we parted. Zadig to the Queen
wanted as much as he swore, and Zadig loved the queen more than what he said.

Zadig spoke in this way to Ogul, Lord, my basilisk not eat, that all virtue is you must enter
through the pores, I've put in a good swollen wineskin wind and covered with a fine leather,
it is necessary that such wineskin empujeis towards me in the air with all your strength, and
that I will throw it often, and with a few days and this Diet Exercicio will see the effectiveness
of my art. The first day it was to drown Ogul, and believed that was about to breathe the
soul, the latter is less tired and slept most good: at last the eight days regained all the
strength, health, lightness, and good humor of his most florid years. Zadig said to him: Have
you played at the ball, and you have not had enough: know that there is no basilisk in the
world, that a sober man and always makes Exercicio healthy lives, and how imagined amalgamation
is the art of gluttony with health as the Sorcerer's Stone, judicial astrology, and theology of
the Magi.

Knowing the quan Ogul first doctor of medicine was dangerous for such a man, collide with the
apothecary to send for guild basilisks to the other world: so that having been punished for
their good deeds always, was to die for having given health to a man gluttonous. Convidáronle
to a feast, where he ought to poison the second service, but still in the first, received a
part of the beautiful queen, and rose from the table, splitting without delay. He who is loved
by a beautiful, says the great Zoroaster, everything goes well in
this world.

CHAPTER XIX.
The fair.

Received the Queen was in Babylon with that joy with which
we always welcome a princess beautiful and unhappy. Truth exists ready-made somewhere. Study is then the process by which an individual
draws on what is in storage. On the other hand, learning means something which the individual
does when he studies. It is an active, personally conducted affair. The dualism here is between
knowledge as something external, or, as it is often called, objective, and knowing as something
purely internal, subjective, psychical. There is, on one side, a body of truth, ready-made,
and, on the other, a ready-made mind equipped with a faculty of knowing--if it only wills to
exercise it, which it is often strangely loath to do. The separation, often touched upon, between
subject matter and method is the educational equivalent of this dualism. Socially the distinction
has to do with the part of life which is dependent upon authority and that where individuals
are free to advance. Another dualism is that of activity and passivity in knowing. Purely empirical
and physical things are often supposed to be known by receiving impressions. Physical things
somehow stamp themselves upon the mind or convey themselves into consciousness by means of
the sense organs. Rational knowledge and knowledge of spiritual things is supposed, on the
contrary, to spring from activity initiated within the mind, an activity carried on better
if it is kept remote from all sullying touch of the senses and external objects. The distinction
between sense training and object lessons and laboratory exercises, and pure ideas contained
in books, and appropriated--so it is thought--by some miraculous output of mental energy, is
a fair expression in education of this distinction. Socially, it reflects a division between
those who are controlled by direct concern with things and those who are free to cultivate
themselves.

Another current opposition is that said to exist between the intellect and the emotions. The
emotions are conceived to be purely private and personal, having nothing to do with the work
of pure intelligence in apprehending facts and truths,--except perhaps the single emotion of
intellectual curiosity. The intellect is a pure light; the emotions are a disturbing heat.
The mind turns outward to truth; the emotions turn inward to considerations of personal advantage
and loss. Thus in education we have that systematic depreciation of interest which has been
noted, plus the necessity in practice, with most pupils, of recourse to extraneous and irrelevant
rewards and penalties in order to induce the person who has a mind (much as his clothes have
a pocket) to apply that mind to the truths to be known. Thus we have the spectacle of professional
educators decrying appeal to interest while they uphold with great dignity the need of reliance
upon examinations, marks, promotions and emotions, prizes, and the time-honored paraphernalia
of rewards and punishments. The effect of this situation in crippling the teacher's sense of
humor has not received the attention which it deserves.

All of these separations culminate in one between knowing and doing, theory and practice, between
mind as the end and spirit of action and the body as its organ and means. We shall not repeat
what has been said about the source of this dualism in the division of society into a class
laboring with their muscles for material sustenance and a class which, relieved from economic
pressure, devotes itself to the arts of expression and social direction. Nor is it necessary
to speak again of the educational evils which spring from the separation. We shall be content
to summarize the forces which tend to make the untenability of this conception obvious and
to replace it by the idea of continuity. (i) The advance of physiology and the psychology associated
with it have shown the connection of mental activity with that of the nervous system. Too often
recognition of connection has stopped short at this point; the older dualism of soul and body
has been replaced by that of the brain and the rest of the body. But in fact the nervous system
is only a specialized mechanism for keeping all bodily activities working together. Instead
of being isolated from them, as an organ of knowing from organs of motor response, it is the
organ by which they interact responsively with one another. The brain is essentially an organ
for effecting the reciprocal adjustment to each other of the stimuli received from the environment
and responses directed upon it. Note that the adjusting is reciprocal; the brain not only enables
organic activity to be brought to bear upon any object of the environment in response to a
sensory stimulation, but this response also determines what the next stimulus will be. See
what happens, for example, when a carpenter is at work upon a board, or an etcher upon his
plate--or in any case of a consecutive activity. While each motor response is adjusted to the
state of affairs indicated through the sense organs, that motor response shapes the next sensory
stimulus. Generalizing this illustration, the brain is the machinery for a constant reorganizing
of activity so as to maintain its continuity; that is to say, to make such modifications in
future action as are required because of what has already been done. The continuity of the
work of the carpenter distinguishes it from a routine repetition of identically the same motion,
and from a random activity where there is nothing cumulative. What makes it continuous, consecutive,
or concentrated is that each earlier act prepares the way for later acts, while these take
account of or reckon with the results already attained--the basis of all responsibility. No
one who has realized the full force of the facts of the connection of knowing with the nervous
system and of the nervous system with the readjusting of activity continuously to meet new
conditions, will doubt that knowing has to do with reorganizing activity, instead of being
something isolated from all activity, complete on its own account.

(ii) The development of biology clinches this lesson, with its discovery of evolution. For
the philosophic significance of the doctrine of evolution lies precisely in its emphasis upon
continuity of simpler and more complex organic forms until we reach man. The development of
organic forms begins with structures where the adjustment of environment and organism is obvious,
and where anything which can be called mind is at a minimum. As activity becomes more complex,
coordinating a greater number of factors in space and time, intelligence plays a more and more
marked role, for it has a larger span of the future to forecast and plan for. The effect upon
the theory of knowing is to displace the notion that it is the activity of a mere onlooker
or spectator of the world, the notion which goes with the idea of knowing as something complete
in itself. For the doctrine of organic development means that the living creature is a part
of the world, sharing its vicissitudes and fortunes, and making itself secure in its precarious
dependence only as it intellectually identifies itself with the things about it, and, forecasting
the future consequences of what is going on, shapes its own activities accordingly. If the
living, experiencing being is an intimate participant in the activities of the world to which
it belongs, then knowledge is a mode of participation, valuable in the degree in which it is
effective. It cannot be the idle view of an unconcerned spectator.

(iii) The development of the experimental method as the method of getting knowledge and of
making sure it is knowledge, and not mere opinion--the method of both discovery and proof--is
the remaining great force in bringing about a transformation in the theory of knowledge. The
experimental method has two sides. (i) On one hand, it means that we have no right to call
anything knowledge except where our activity has actually produced certain physical changes
in things, which agree with and confirm the conception entertained. Short of such specific
changes, our beliefs are only hypotheses, theories, suggestions, guesses, and are to be entertained
tentatively and to be utilized as indications of experiments to be tried. (ii) On the other
hand, the experimental method of thinking signifies that thinking is of avail; that it is of
avail in just the degree in which the anticipation of future consequences is made on the basis
of thorough observation of present conditions. Experimentation, in other words, is not equivalent
to blind reacting. Such surplus activity--a surplus with reference to what has been observed
and is now anticipated--is indeed an unescapable factor in all our behavior, but it is not
experiment save as consequences are noted and are used to make predictions and plans in similar
situations in the future. The more the meaning of the experimental method is perceived, the
more our trying out of a certain way of treating the material resources and obstacles which
confront us embodies a prior use of intelligence. What we call magic was with respect to many
things the experimental method of the savage; but for him to try was to try his luck, not his
ideas. The scientific experimental method is, on the contrary, a trial of ideas; hence even
when practically--or immediately--unsuccessful, it is intellectual, fruitful; for we learn
from our failures when our endeavors are seriously thoughtful.

The experimental method is new as a scientific resource--as a systematized means of making
knowledge, though as old as life as a practical device. Hence it is not surprising that men
have not recognized its full scope. For the most part, its significance is regarded as belonging
to certain technical and merely physical matters. It will doubtless take a long time to secure
the perception that it holds equally as to the forming and testing of ideas in social and moral
matters. He stopped and made Zadig
a deep bow, to which corresponded the hermit so gentle and so noble that Zadig to her curiosity
came to reason with him. Was asked what book he read. The book destination, he said the hermit:
you want to read any piece? He placed in his hands, but even Zadig was Vorse in many languages,
could not find a single letter, so qual is increased their curiosity. You seem very sad, the
good father said to him. I have much reason to be! said Zadig. If you give me leave to accompany
you, "replied the old man, perhaps I can serve you something, that sometimes I have baxar comfort
the souls of the unfortunate. The trace, beard and the book of the hermit command respect in
Zadig, and their conversation found top lights. The hermit talked of fate, justice, morality,
the highest good, of human weakness, of the virtues and vices so lively and penetrating eloquence,
which Zadig by an irresistible delight was attracted to him and he prayed earnestly that no dexara
him until they were back in Babylon. That same please I beg you, swear to me by Orosmades,
that whatever it is what you see me do, you have to separate you from me few days. Jurólo
Zadig, and together they followed their path.

That same afternoon they arrived at a magnificent villa, and asked the hermit hosting plans
for themselves and the boy who accompanied him. Introdúxolos at home, with an air of contemptuous
generosity a janitor who seemed like a great lord, and presented a servant principal, who
taught the chambers of his master. Him down at the end of the table, without condescending to
the owner of that Palace of honor at a glance, but the serve, as to all others, with opulence
and sensitivity. Then they gave water to hand in a basin of gold, studded with emeralds and
rubies, brought him to lie down to a sumptuous room, and the next morning he brought the servant
to every one a gold coin, and then sent them off.

The master of this house, 'said Zadig on the way, I think it is generous, although somewhat arrogant,
and exercising himself with nobility hospitality. With these words, said that it seemed stiff and
swollen with a kind of very long costal brought the hermit, and saw within the basin gold studded
with precious stones, that he had stolen.

Dared not say anything, but I was confused and perplexed.

When noon came the hermit at the door of a very miserable hut where lived an old miser, and asked where
it was produced by a few crying. Received him with harsh face a shabby old servant, and took
them to the hermit Zadig to the stable, where they served Aceytuno some bad, some brown bread,
and wine vinegar. The hermit ate and drank with such a good mood as the day before, and then
addressing the old servant who did not remove the view of each other because they stole nothing,
and gave them haste to go, and they gave him the two gold coins he had received that morning, and
thanking him for his courtesy, said: I beg to allow me to talk to your master. Stunned the
servant introduced the two travelers. Superb sir, 'said the hermit, I can not but give the
most surrendered by the noble entertainment with us you welcomed deign to admit that gold basin
short pay my gratitude. Very nearly fainted with joy the miser, and the hermit without giving
him time to return to his astonishment, he broke all haste to his young companion. Father, Zadig
said to him, what do you say what I'm seeing? seems to me that you do not semejais in all others:
have robbed a gold basin adorned with precious stones to a man that you stay with magnificence,
and the dais to a miser who indignantly you about! Son replied the old man, the great man only out
of vanity, and flaunt their wealth, host to the foreigners, will become more sane, and exercising himself
to learn the miserly hospitality. Do not give anything amazement, and follow me. Zadig still
could not manage if he went to the craziest or the most Men's sane, but such was the domain that
Granger had his mind the hermit which also required by his oath he
could not but follow.

That evening they came to a house neat, but simple, and where nothing breathed prodigality or parsimony.
He was a philosopher, retired owner of drudgery in the world, cultivated in peace wisdom and
virtue, and never bored. Had particularly liked this building remote lodge, where he received
the strangers with a dignity that resembled nothing ostentation. The same went out to meet
the two walkers, rested on a very comfortable room, and shortly after he came in person to invite
them to a banquet neat and well served during the qual spoke very good sense to the latest
revolutions in Babylon. Heart seemed addicted to the Queen, and wished that Zadig had been
found among competitors to the crown, but men do not deserve, he added, have a king as Zadig. I
felt embarrassed that grow your pain. In the conversation was all that consistent in that were
not always the things of this world to like the wise, but living the hermit we did not know the
ways of Providence, and that it was mistake in men fail on of a whole,
when Vian no more than a tiny part.

Tratóse passions. Quan is deadly! 'said Zadig. Son, "replied the hermit, winds to swell the sails
of the ship, sometimes you are immersed, but without them you can
not navigate.

The bile makes angry, and causes disease, but no one could not live bile. On earth everything
is dangerous, and all necessary.

Tratóse of Deleyte, and tested the hermit that was a gift of divinity, because man, he said,
for himself can not have feelings or ideas: everything in it is borrowed, and the penalty and the
delight will come from another, as their very being.

Zadig Pasmábase that a man who had committed so many blunders, runs with both success. Finally
after a conversation no less pleasant than instructive, led his guest to the two walking into
a room, giving thanks to heaven that he had sent two men so wise
and virtuous.

Brindóles with money from a naive and noble so that he could not upset: rehusóle the hermit,
and told him that he said goodbye to him, because to be assumed to mind Babylon before dawn. Their
separation was affectionate, and specialty Zadig remained esteem and affection penetrated so
kind to host.

Quando was with the hermit in his place, did both a pompous eulogy of his guest. At daybreak,
awakened his old comrade. Come on, told him, I however, whilst sleeping around the world, to this
good man dexar proof of my esteem and my affection. Saying this, he took a torch and set fire
to the house. Zadig got frightened cries, and she wanted clogging who commits such a horrendous,
but was carried along with it with superior strength the hermit. Ardia the house, and the hermit
who with her partner and was diverted, the burn looked very quietly.

Thank God, he said, is already home to my good host burnt to the ground, do man so happy!
At these words he came to temptations Zadig releasing laughter, say a thousand pranks Reverend
Father, to give clubs, and escape, but the repressed all, always dominated by the superiority of
the hermit, and he continued until the last day.

Alojáronse the house of a charitable and virtuous widow, had a nephew qual fourteen year-old
boy hilarious, and that was their only hope. Agasajólos as best he could in home, and the next
day ordered his nephew who was accompanying the two walkers to a bridge that had recently broken
into, and it was a dangerous step. Solicitous Precedíalos the boy, and when they had arrived
on the bridge, the hermit told him, 'Come, my son I want to express my thanks to your aunt, and
grabbing the hair you pull the river. Boy falls, nothing for a moment above the water, and power
leads. O monster or the most evil man of men! said Zadig. Have you had given me more patience
word, "interrupted the hermit know that vnder the rubble of the house to which Providence on
fire, its owner has found a huge treasure, know that this young man
Providence had drowned by murdering his aunt in about a year and within
two to you same.

Who told you, inhuman? cried Zadig, "and even Quando'd read that event in your book of destinies,
what right have you to drown a boy who made you no harm?

He was still talking about the Babylonian, when warned that he had no beard and the elderly,
and his face is rejuvenated. Then he disappeared his hermit's garb, and four beautiful wings
covered majestic and radiant body. O auditorium of heaven or heavenly angel cried prostrate Zadig
with you baxado of Empyrean to teach a weak mortal to which is subject to their eternal decrees!
Humans, he said the angel Jesrad, unaware of anything failing of all: between all mortals that
you were the more you deserve to be illustrated. Zadig entreated her permission to speak,
and said: I do not trust my understanding, but if I must be bold to beg you to dispel a question
of mine, tell me if it was better to have amended this boy, and made him virtuous, that drown?
Had he been virtuous and lived Jesrad said, was his fate to be killed with the woman with whom
he had married, and the son of this marriage was to be born. How it is essential, he said Zadig,
who has atrocities and misfortunes, and that these recaygan in the virtuous? The bad, said Jesrad,
always unhappy, and serve to try a small number of just planted on the face of the earth, with
no evil where not be an asset. But he said Zadig, "if you only had assets without mixture
of evil? Land then replied Jesrad was other land, the chain of events another order of knowledge;
and this order, which would be perfect, just at the mansion of the Supreme Being, where there
can be none evil can exist. Millions of worlds has raised, and no two that may seem one to
another, that this immense variety is an attribute of their immense power. There is on earth
two leaves of a tree, or the endless sky fields entirely like two balloons; and quanto see
in the tiny atom where you were born of necessity, had to exist in its time and place, according
to the immutable order of that all-embracing. People think that this child has just died accidentally
fallen in the river and that the house was burned by accident, but no chance, it's all trial
or punishment, remuneration or providence. Remember that fisherman who had the most unfortunate
mortals, and Orosmades sent you to move your luck. Dexa, weak mortal, to dispute against what
you worship. But he said Zadig .... As he said though, since he directed the angel its rapid flight
to the tenth sphere. Zadig on his knees worshiped Providence, and
submitted.

From the top of cycles shouted the angel: Take the road to Babylon.

CHAPTER XXI.

Riddles.

Zadig beside himself as one who has seen them drop near him lightning, walking heedless. Came
to Babylon the day to hit the riddles and answer the questions of the high magician were assembled in
the main courtyard of the palace had all fought in quanta palenque, and had come all the supporters
of the fair, minus the green arms. As he entered Zadig in the city, crowded around him people,
without being tired eyes looking at him, his tongue to give blessings, nor his heart to wish that
cinese the crown. The envious that saw him go dodged spiteful, and it took the crowd on wings the
assembly site. The queen, whom he told about his arrival stirred fears hesitated and hope and full
of anxiety could not understand why Zadig came unarmed, or as Itobad carrying the weapons. Alzose
so a confused murmur to descry Zadig: all were stunned and filled with joy to see him, but only
those knights who had fought was entitled to present at the meeting
.-- I also have struggled, he said, but another has usurped my arms,
and until I have the honor of accredit, I beg leave to present myself
hitting riddles.

Voted, and was so recorded in all minds, even the reputation of probity, which was unanimously
accepted.

The first question proposed was the chief magician: qual is the longest and shortest of all things
in the world, the shorter and slower, the more divided and more extensive, the most widely
wasted and have lost more you cry, without which nothing can be done, that swallows all I mean,
and gives life to everything great? Itobad played to respond, and said he did not understand guessing,
and that was enough to have been victorious lance in hand. They said it was about wealth, other than
the earth, and other than light. Zadig he said it was time. There is nothing longer, he said,
measuring eternity, or shorter, as needed for all our plans: and slower for those who wait,
no more fast for one who enjoys it extends infinitely to large, and
divided to the infinitely small, neither does appreciate it, and everybody
cries loss without him nothing is done, buried in oblivion quanto
is unworthy of posterity, and actions makes the glans immortal.

The assembly Zadig admitted that he was right.

Then asked: What do we receive no grateful we enjoy without knowing how, we to others without knowing
where we are, and lose without him out of view? Each one said to his thing, just Zadig was the
life he knew that, and just as easily hit the other enigmas. Itobad was saying at last that there
was something easier, and with the greatest ease he would have given it, if wanted to take
the job.

Question About Propusiéronse course of justice, supreme good, the art of reign, and the responses
of Zadig is known for the most robust. Pity is, they said all that sugeto so much talent be
so bad rider.

Ladies and Gentlemen, 'said Zadig finally, I have had the honor of
winning in the arena, I am which had the weapons.

Mr. Itobad took on them while I was sleeping, thinking that surely do him rather than the green.
I challenge you to prove before you all with my gown and my sword against all their gleaming
white armor I have removed, it was me who had the honor of winning the brave Otama.

Itobad conceded the match with confidence, not doubting that with his helmet, his armor and
bracelets, she would find a champion that was presented with his robe and cap sleep. Zadig bared
his sword after making a courtesy to the Queen, which stirred fears and joy watching him; Itobad
desenvaynó away without greeting anyone, and rushed to Zadig as who had nothing to fear. Ibal
to cleave the head of a sword, when the Zadig stopped coup, making the sword of his adversary
pegase false, and hiciese pieces. Hugging Then with his enemy threw her down, and placing the tip of
the sword between Shell and the back: DEXA disarm, he said to him, if you want to lose your life.
Itobad stunned, as usual, of the misfortunes that a man as it happened, no resistance was to Zadig,
who much to his taste took his magnificent helmet, his superb cuirass, his beautiful bracelets, his lucid
purses, and thus armed went to bow to Astarte plants. Easily Cador proved that the weapons belonged
to Zadig, the qual was taken up by unanimous consent king, with great appreciation of Astarte, who,
after many misadventures enjoyed the satisfaction of seeing her lover worthy of her husband in sight
of the universe. He went to his house Itobad them to be called His Excellency. Zadig was king
and happy, not forgetting he had taught quanto Jesrad angel, and remembering the grain of sand turned
into diamond, and he and the queen adored Providence. Zadig I leave the world to run through the
beautiful capricious Missouf; sent and called the bandit Arboga, whom he gave an honorable
post in the army, promising that he would advance until the first military honors if he behaved
as a brave soldier, and he would send hanged if to thieving. Setoc, called the interior of
Arabia, came with Almona beautiful, and was appointed superintendent of trade in Babylon. Cador,
placed and appreciated as they deserved their services, was a friend of the king, and this
was the only monarch on land that had a friend. Zadig did not forget the dumb, or the fisherman,
whom gave a very beautiful house.

Orcan was condemned to pay a large sum of money, and to restore his wife, but the fisherman, who
had made man wise, but that would not money.

The beautiful Semira consoles could not have been persuaded that Zadig had one eye, Azora gorge
or to mourn for wanting to cut off their noses. The king calmed her
pain with gifts, but fell dead envious of regret and shame. Enjoyed
the rule of peace, glory and wealth, and this was the most flourishing
century world, governed by love and justice. All blessed Zadig, and
Zadig blessed Heaven. There is one continuous behavior,
proceeding from a more uncertain, divided, hesitating state to a more overt, determinate, or
complete state. The activity at first consists mainly of certain tensions and adjustments within
the organism; as these are coordinated into a unified attitude, the organism as a whole acts--some
definite act is undertaken. We may distinguish, of course, the more explicitly conscious phase
of the continuous activity as mental or psychical. But that only identifies the mental or psychical
to mean the indeterminate, formative state of an activity which in its fullness involves putting
forth of overt energy to modify the environment.

Our conscious thoughts, observations, wishes, aversions are important, because they represent
inchoate, nascent activities. They fulfill their destiny in issuing, later on, into specific
and perceptible acts. And these inchoate, budding organic readjustments are important because
they are our sole escape from the dominion of routine habits and blind impulse. They are activities
having a new meaning in process of development. Hence, normally, there is an accentuation of
personal consciousness whenever our instincts and ready formed habits find themselves blocked
by novel conditions. Then we are thrown back upon ourselves to reorganize our own attitude
before proceeding to a definite and irretrievable course of action. Unless we try to drive
our way through by sheer brute force, we must modify our organic resources to adapt them to
the specific features of the situation in which we find ourselves. The conscious deliberating
and desiring which precede overt action are, then, the methodic personal readjustment implied
in activity in uncertain situations. This role of mind in continuous activity is not always
maintained, however. Desires for something different, aversion to the given state of things
caused by the blocking of successful activity, stimulates the imagination. The picture of a
different state of things does not always function to aid ingenious observation and recollection
to find a way out and on. Except where there is a disciplined disposition, the tendency is
for the imagination to run loose. Instead of its objects being checked up by conditions with
reference to their practicability in execution, they are allowed to develop because of the
immediate emotional satisfaction which they yield. When we find the successful display of our
energies checked by uncongenial surroundings, natural and social, the easiest way out is to
build castles in the air and let them be a substitute for an actual achievement which involves
the pains of thought. So in overt action we acquiesce, and build up an imaginary world in,
mind. This break between thought and conduct is reflected in those theories which make a sharp
separation between mind as inner and conduct and consequences as merely outer.

For the split may be more than an incident of a particular individual's experience. The social
situation may be such as to throw the class given to articulate reflection back into their
own thoughts and desires without providing the means by which these ideas and aspirations can
be used to reorganize the environment. Under such conditions, men take revenge, as it were,
upon the alien and hostile environment by cultivating contempt for it, by giving it a bad name.
They seek refuge and consolation within their own states of mind, their own imaginings and
wishes, which they compliment by calling both more real and more ideal than the despised outer
world. Such periods have recurred in history. In the early centuries of the Christian era,
the influential moral systems of Stoicism, of monastic and popular Christianity and other religious
movements of the day, took shape under the influence of such conditions. The more action which
might express prevailing ideals was checked, the more the inner possession and cultivation
of ideals was regarded as self-sufficient--as the essence of morality. The external world in
which activity belongs was thought of as morally indifferent. All the guys from here go to shrift! Best! Best! Marquesitas Who sends
love! Well seen, who are lovers? Eddie ... Eddie only! The fool, as you have money, like his father is
rich, sure will listen.

My countrymen were quick to warn that late afternoon I spent hours listening to me play to Gabrielita.
One night, he entered the pharmacy, I heard talk of Miss Fernandez and saying something about
me. I soon learned that in all the corridors, in all the gossip in every house, they said and
repeated that I was in love, I drank the wind by the daughter the wealthy owner of Santa Clara.

XV

One
afternoon I received a note from Don Roman, a note very punticomada,
gracefully written, with the excellent letter that Palomares years
ago that my teacher gave skilful reputation hangers.

"My dear disciple and friend

"Like you I offered yesterday, last night I was to visit Mr. Mr. Castro
Perez to speak about you, and how useful it could be in the office.

As I told him I thought it appropriate: I told him of your good qualities, your good character,
your hardworking nature, your statement strong and targeted, and the difficulty that I was to
continue the studies and career started so brightly, and the need that you looked to find something
productive. Oyome of goodwill (which I thought was a good omen) and I promised to take in the
matter at the earliest. I judge it necessary to make a visit as soon as possible and I recommend
you try my friend (who was also very close, the Lord your grandfather) your great and characteristic
kindness, courtesy makes you unique. Castro Pérez is paid much of externalities, and to have
you flatter environment is necessary. It's manic, and slightest thing goes against him. And
leave you prepared the field. Up to you to rest.

"Come over here. The liver is me since yesterday, annoying and 'achicopalado.
"

Come, talk, and you show you something you'll like it much, some hexameters I forged last night
against those "wise men" of "The Shadow" and "The Voice."

"You know how much you want this your teacher and friend

Román López.

     

He gave me a bad feeling the esquelita my master teacher. Of course I thought I was going to
try a man of bad character. This got me upset. I figured it was a Castro Pérez of those lawyers
old peritísimos Court issues, but otherwise few out-and-out ignorant, a village matron, paid
his fame and his science, those who long for everything old, and are always unwilling to everything
new, a phantoms angry, grumpy, those who view with suspicion by young people, and are pleased
at all hours censored encyclopedic education these days, which, while not bulk produce non-breeding
wise fools, like so many old people I knew, fenced in his learning scenario, very arrogant
and cocky with his science, science meager and mean that conquer them in the popular vile fans
and acolytes of that pass as they say amen Socrates of the village, so they loose the biggest
blunder. In a word, I figured Castro Pérez was one of those old lawyer, replete with Latin
phrases, which are known memory the items that are allowed to push in canon, and who write
miss with 'h', 'cape theologians' as they were called "in illo tempore"; experts in the legal shenanigans,
but vacuous by everything else habilis to hide their ignorance and dismissive of what they
do not understand; watching everyone with an air of protection, and to appear serious and brainy,
showing inaccessible and go for a few wonders sullen and come to be, in towns and cities like Villaverde,
lords of life and property.

Nothing you will draw from them if you appear humble, submissive, hardcore fans their people.
Woe to you if you approach such lofty gentleman, pretending that expect all of them! Woe outcasts
who do not give up! Surely, nothing will, of fixed all will answer in monosyllables, and leave
there angry and desperate.

I hated to follow the advice of my teacher. I understood very well what it meant to me by saying,
"I recommend that you treat my friend with your great and feature goodness"; but it shocked
me introduce myself as a shy and meticulous donated pretending estimate that did not happen
to me the limits of a vulgar and common respect, as we give all for reasons of politeness and
courtesy. What to do? I started to follow the advice of "Pomposísimo Cicero ', and late afternoon,
just before it rang the Angelus, I went to Pérez Castro's house.

He lived behind the parish, in a dilapidated and gloomy mansion.

When I reached the hallway I was tempted to go back and go talk to
Don Procopio.

I bite the bullet and walked to the door of the office.

- Inside!
- Said a high-pitched voice.

- "Mr. Castro Perez?

- Inside! - Repeated
falsetto.

It was the scribe. Bad impression made me very sensitive little person. It was a pale boy, haggard,
bloodless and consumed by work, a wretch condemned, no doubt, to life imprisonment in that
world of files and tomes, always bent over that table covered with
a green baize table in front of that lead inkwell filled with ink
born thick.

- "Mr. Castro Perez?

- In the other room! - He said
the clerks.

- I can go?

- Go you.

I slipped the rundown.

My man, almost lying on an armchair near the window, looking through
a file.

Joined to feel upset, left the seat, and went to close the door, perhaps so that the clerk could
not hear us.

- What sent you? - I said, frowning.

- My teacher, Mr. Don Roman Lopez, has recommended me ....

Pérez
Castro's face changed expression.

- Come on, girl, - muttered getting
up and offering me a seat, - here you have a chair.

My man returned to his armchair, and then over his glasses, looked at me from head to toe.

- What is available? Ah! Now I remember! Are you the young clerk that you want to enter this house?

-
Yes, sir.

- Well .... We will see, see if you are useful. Here we have a lot of work. You know: My customers
are numerous, and therefore do not need task. If you want to work ....

- It's what I want ...-- muttered, looking down, while the lawyer
looked me straight in the eye.

- Well, I want it, trabajadorcito.

Ten clerks have changed this year, and that Indeed, none has left me happy. Best not worth
three snails!

- Do not pretend to be worth much, but ... procure, under such right
direction, learn in a short time as necessary.

Pérez Castro smiled, and two hands clasping the thumb and the index
is composed glasses, and then patting the abdomen, and fell back and
stopped me.

- None of flattery, young man!

Nothing worthy of what they say about me ....

He spoke slowly and calmly, hearing.

- You are by far modest ...--¡ Here! - I said .-- Here the incense!
- Who is not aware the talents of you, your profound knowledge of
his reputation, his honesty purge?

They praise me blushed.

- Well!

Well! We'll see if you get what you want. Are you effectively recommended Roman. He tells me you
was his pupil, and the more advanced ....

- The Lord my teacher loves me, and me too lenient.

I want to work, and I sure to advance to next person so recommended.

Who does not know that you are the first Counsel for the State of Veracruz!

Pérez Castro swelled up like a turkey, rocked in the chair, pretended to blush, and said:

- To the Point! To the Point!

Do you know the industry?

- No, sir.

- Well then, how are you applying for a job that is unknown? I have good news you. Roman and
I said you're a smart boy, who can you make nice verses .... But it is well known: they are the
best employees who go around all day consonants to hunt ....

I wanted
to strangle the old man.

- Sir, - I said - it is true that I make
verses, but do not live so pleasantly delivered to occupation.

Also, I have understood you ... usually make ... And very beautiful!

-
Thanks, girl!

Remains of my hobbies youth!

In truth that poetry tends to captivate, but only from time to time.

Well, well, well!

This was his crutch.

- I hope you in memory of my grandfather .... Romao and would speak
of the circumstances where I am.

I can not return to Mexico, I can not continue their studies, and I am obliged get me a piece
of bread ....

- Well! Well! Well! So does a young delicate.

We will see, see if you serve me.

But I must warn you ... up within a week I can not solve.

Tomorrow I'll see if I can reconcile several things. Come back here,
Friday or Saturday .... Y.. you say.

Do you have good lyrics?

- Regular, sir.

- Come on. There you have what is necessary.

Obscured. On the table was a candlestick with a candle.

- Do not you see? Then light the candle and write down what you like.

Obeyed. I took the pen and wrote: "If Mr. Castro Perez Bachelor receive me worthy home, will
try to serve him with all faithfulness. "

I went to the lawyer, taking the blade and spark plug. My man sat in his armchair, was composed
with both hands, glasses, and read what was written.

- Well!

Well! Well! According! I prefer the old and gallant Spanish lyrics .... But end, you is clear
and beautiful. The English lyrics so mannered and smug!

And after a pause:

- You know: Friday or Saturday ....

- I'll come over here ....

-
No, I'll call you.

I understand that there will Pérez Castro fell ill. That told me two days later the worthy Don
Roman.

- The thing is for sure, boy. You nailed a pike in Flanders!

XVI

We were in late October, mediated the fall, and the fields were green again by rain show off
their foliage. The morning was crystal clear, fresh, prodigal of light, and sunsets short,
splendid, incomparable.

I was happy to wander around Villaverde. A hundred times I traveled the banks of the Stony,
and many others saw, from the top of Brush Hill, sunset.

My Site favorite, where I went every evening, was almost flat rock, which appeared collapsed the last
peak, and sideways on a rock, gave me a comfortable seat that surrounded buvardias coral, soft
Cebadillas fragrance, wonderful and flowing grasses ferns which floated
on the wind, scattered the brown feathers of ripe ears.

What a beautiful picture! At my feet the first streets of the city, as extended in yellow plush carpeting,
the mall Santa Catalina, buildings crowding in proportion as they
approached the Plaza, the town divided by the river, and along it
Franciscan Monastery, grim and sombre, desolate and sad, like crying
absence of beggars.

North side, the hills of San Antonio, the pastures of the brush, the shacks of Barrio Alto, hidden
in the thicket of jinicuil and orange groves.

To the east, the most picturesque in the valley. Right and left the mountains of Mata-Thick, covered
with the lush vegetation of the lowlands, the hill of the Otates that seen from the point where
I was, like a camel lying on the sand awaiting the breath scorching deserts.

Between these heights the darkened plain, the sky split in two parallel horizontal strips: upper
waxy and transparent bottom tinted violet. About this area profiles were drawn soft rolling of distant
mountains, and the haughty dome Church of Christ, and presumed correct
dome, topped by a cross of iron, around which endless circling swallows
a few dozen stragglers.

     In the snowy peak fringe of silver clusters; celajes tulle, tattered
gauze burned by Light west, remnants of burning red brocade, pearly
ribbons, birds of fire dyer snakes twisting and stretched, skiffs
candlelight lace, which rowed like swans in the huge high sea sapphirine.

The
sun was hiding in a slow, majestic golden abyss, the mountains of
brilliant clouds, through which passed the last gusts rose miss divergent
in the spaces, or down to illuminate with uncanny clarity the solitary
purple pastures, the Gramal slopes, the cane plantations of saccharin,
the ashes of reeds river, the trees which divide the fields, and the
dense woods of a nearby village, which newly whitewashed bell came
from the thicket as a pillar ruin.

And here and there, and beyond,
and everywhere, in sheets, strands and weeds, golden twinkle of yellow
flowers, forerunners of the grim and gloomy days of the first week
November.

The last fires of the dying sun shone in the quiet city
on the tiles domes, and steeples, stained glass and mirrors, and shiny
silver-lend at Stony. Swift birds returning to their nests, thousands
of birds singing in the bushes of the hill, and the wind whispered
in the grass.

I plunged me in the contemplation of the spectacle
charming. They woke up in my mind sweet memories, and my heart shudder
feelings and tenderness of first love. My escaped his lips the most
beautiful verses of my favorite poet, my hand traced on earth red
a beloved name, and the shadows that descended in droves to the plain
I thought see the figure to grace the gentle maid.

In such delusions
- delusions that were, and nothing more - happened in my soul some
painful melancholy sighs and I tore my eyes moistened. And I sought
among the thousands of houses Villaverde the humble home of my aunts.
There were the good old wanted me so much, there was Angelina, the
poor orphan object of my love. Quietly, very quietly, fearing that
any hear me, I said the name of the sweet girl, as if she were near
me and could I would listen and tell: Angelina, I love you I love
you! Love me! Are you unhappy? I also I am unhappy. Live for each
other, we, as the poet says:

Two souls with one mind and heart throbbing
chord. Every time a man sits on
a chair rather than on a stove, carries an umbrella when it rains, consults a doctor when ill--or
in short performs any of the thousand acts which make up his daily life, he proves that knowledge
of a certain kind finds direct issue in conduct. There is every reason to suppose that the
same sort of knowledge of good has a like expression; in fact "good" is an empty term unless
it includes the satisfactions experienced in such situations as those mentioned. Knowledge
that other persons are supposed to know something might lead one to act so as to win the approbation
others attach to certain actions, or at least so as to give others the impression that one
agrees with them; there is no reason why it should lead to personal initiative and loyalty
in behalf of the beliefs attributed to them.

It is not necessary, accordingly, to dispute about the proper meaning of the term knowledge.
It is enough for educational purposes to note the different qualities covered by the one name,
to realize that it is knowledge gained at first hand through the exigencies of experience which
affects conduct in significant ways. If a pupil learns things from books simply in connection
with school lessons and for the sake of reciting what he has learned when called upon, then
knowledge will have effect upon some conduct--namely upon that of reproducing statements at
the demand of others. There is nothing surprising that such "knowledge" should not have much
influence in the life out of school. But this is not a reason for making a divorce between
knowledge and conduct, but for holding in low esteem this kind of knowledge. The same thing
may be said of knowledge which relates merely to an isolated and technical specialty; it modifies
action but only in its own narrow line. In truth, the problem of moral education in the schools
is one with the problem of securing knowledge--the knowledge connected with the system of impulses
and habits. For the use to which any known fact is put depends upon its connections. The knowledge
of dynamite of a safecracker may be identical in verbal form with that of a chemist; in fact,
it is different, for it is knit into connection with different aims and habits, and thus has
a different import.

Our prior discussion of subject-matter as proceeding from direct activity having an immediate
aim, to the enlargement of meaning found in geography and history, and then to scientifically
organized knowledge, was based upon the idea of maintaining a vital connection between knowledge
and activity. What is learned and employed in an occupation having an aim and involving cooperation
with others is moral knowledge, whether consciously so regarded or not. For it builds up a
social interest and confers the intelligence needed to make that interest effective in practice.
Just because the studies of the curriculum represent standard factors in social life, they
are organs of initiation into social values. As mere school studies, their acquisition has
only a technical worth. Acquired under conditions where their social significance is realized,
they feed moral interest and develop moral insight. Moreover, the qualities of mind discussed
under the topic of method of learning are all of them intrinsically moral qualities. Open-mindedness,
single-mindedness, sincerity, breadth of outlook, thoroughness, assumption of responsibility
for developing the consequences of ideas which are accepted, are moral traits. The habit of
identifying moral characteristics with external conformity to authoritative prescriptions may
lead us to ignore the ethical value of these intellectual attitudes, but the same habit tends
to reduce morals to a dead and machinelike routine. Consequently while such an attitude has
moral results, the results are morally undesirable--above all in a democratic society where
so much depends upon personal disposition.

4. The Social and the Moral. All of the separations which we have been criticizing--and which
the idea of education set forth in the previous chapters is designed to avoid--spring from
taking morals too narrowly,--giving them, on one side, a sentimental goody-goody turn without
reference to effective ability to do what is socially needed, and, on the other side, overemphasizing
convention and tradition so as to limit morals to a list of definitely stated acts. As a matter
of fact, morals are as broad as acts which concern our relationships with others. And potentially
this includes all our acts, even though their social bearing may not be thought of at the time
of performance. For every act, by the principle of habit, modifies disposition--it sets up
a certain kind of inclination and desire. And it is impossible to tell when the habit thus
strengthened may have a direct and perceptible influence on our association with others. Certain
traits of character have such an obvious connection with our social relationships that we call
them "moral" in an emphatic sense--truthfulness, honesty, chastity, amiability, etc. But this
only means that they are, as compared with some other attitudes, central:--that they carry
other attitudes with them. They are moral in an emphatic sense not because they are isolated
and exclusive, but because they are so intimately connected with thousands of other attitudes
which we do not explicitly recognize--which perhaps we have not even names for. To call them
virtues in their isolation is like taking the skeleton for the living body. The bones are certainly
important, but their importance lies in the fact that they support other organs of the body
in such a way as to make them capable of integrated effective activity. And the same is true
of the qualities of character which we specifically designate virtues. Morals concern nothing
less than the whole character, and the whole character is identical with the man in all his
concrete make-up and manifestations. To possess virtue does not signify to have cultivated
a few namable and exclusive traits; it means to be fully and adequately what one is capable
of becoming through association with others in all the offices of life.

The moral and the social quality of conduct are, in the last analysis, identical with each
other. It is then but to restate explicitly the import of our earlier chapters regarding the
social function of education to say that the measure of the worth of the administration, curriculum,
and methods of instruction of the school is the extent to which they are animated by a social
spirit. And the great danger which threatens school work is the absence of conditions which
make possible a permeating social spirit; this is the great enemy of effective moral training.
For this spirit can be actively present only when certain conditions are met.

(i) In the first place, the school must itself be a community life in all which that implies.
Social perceptions and interests can be developed only in a genuinely social medium--one where
there is give and take in the building up of a common experience. Informational statements
about things can be acquired in relative isolation by any one who previously has had enough
intercourse with others to have learned language. But realization of the meaning of the linguistic
signs is quite another matter. That involves a context of work and play in association with
others. The plea which has been made for education through continued constructive activities
in this book rests upon the fact they afford an opportunity for a social atmosphere. In place
of a school set apart from life as a place for learning lessons, we have a miniature social
group in which study and growth are incidents of present shared experience. Playgrounds, shops,
workrooms, laboratories not only direct the natural active tendencies of youth, but they involve
intercourse, communication, and cooperation,--all extending the perception of connections.

(ii) The learning in school should be continuous with that out of school. There should be a
free interplay between the two. This is possible only when there are numerous points of contact
between the social interests of the one and of the other. A school is conceivable in which
there should be a spirit of companionship and shared activity, but where its social life would
no more represent or typify that of the world beyond the school walls than that of a monastery.
Social concern and understanding would be developed, but they would not be available outside;
they would not carry over. The proverbial separation of town and gown, the cultivation of academic
seclusion, operate in this direction. So does such adherence to the culture of the past as
generates a reminiscent social spirit, for this makes an individual feel more at home in the
life of other days than in his own. A professedly cultural education is peculiarly exposed
to this danger. An idealized past becomes the refuge and solace of the spirit; present-day
concerns are found sordid, and unworthy of attention. But as a rule, the absence of a social
environment in connection with which learning is a need and a reward is the chief reason for
the isolation of the school; and this isolation renders school knowledge inapplicable to life
and so infertile in character.

A narrow and moralistic view of morals is responsible for the failure to recognize that all
the aims and values which are desirable in education are themselves moral. Discipline, natural
development, culture, social efficiency, are moral traits--marks of a person who is a worthy
member of that society which it is the business of education to further. There is an old saying
to the effect that it is not enough for a man to be good; he must be good for something. My poet and some other escort us. It is necessary to put on airs.
No is a matter of coming here two girls and two adventurous.

- Much
I have to thank - said Beatriz.

- No, my child, do not thank me anything.

I do it for selfishness.

Here among us, vanity I'm not blind, I still and cotorrona. I have no love, or jealousy, or aspire
to nothing, and I need friendship and company of young women like you. My house is a casino,
of which I am president with skirts, but I'm tired of doing this role. Want to share with me?
Will you help me to chair my gathering?

- I do not know if Braulio willing and able ...

- How not to love?

It seems affable, cheerful, good sir, and discreet. And recognize that their Women should not
always be stuck at home. When married with a child like you would by all this. No shock will take
him.

- Yes ... it is true ...-- Beatriz said - but Braulio has compelling
reasons.

Why I feel ashamed to say to you? We are poor ... How do you spend on clothes? ...

- And why the costumes? In my house ... We confidently ... You can go as you ... now, less luxurious
yet ... and until the work can take you there ... You'll see how you get distracted there at
night. Your sister will be distracted too, because they provided chickens home their age and
will know more when she goes. As for your husband ... is not a requirement indispensable to accompany
you always. That would be ridiculous for several reasons, because it would suspect he was a
zealous suspicious, which would be in contempt of yours, or because it would presume that was
a man incapable bare, he had no business in what used, but in Finally, even when your husband was
often at my house, I am certain that, far from weigh is happy. There are quite a few subjects
of their position. Would be released, win friends and talk policy,
finance, science, everything, looking so much to say that you know
... and until the present, that is in peace and without getting angry,
it has not helped. Both of these separations are overcome in an educational scheme where learning
is the accompaniment of continuous activities or occupations which have a social aim and utilize
the materials of typical social situations. For under such conditions, the school becomes itself
a form of social life, a miniature community and one in close interaction with other modes
of associated experience beyond school walls. All education which develops power to share effectively
in social life is moral. Setoc informed business with Zadig's who had become his counselor. What
condition is your debtor? Zadig said to him. The condition of a scoundrel, "replied Setoc. What
I wonder is whether I live or phlegmatic, reckless or discrete.

