THE ROMANCE OF THE SOUL

By

Lilian Staveley The Author of "The Golden Fountain" In my heart and mind I am corrupt Humanity.
In my soul I know not what I am or may be, and therein lies my hope.

O wonderful and mysterious soul, more fragile than gossamer and yet so strong that she may
stand in the Presence of God and not perish!

"Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove."--Psalm lxviii. 13.

By what means shall the ordinary man and woman, living the usual everyday life, whether of
work or of leisure, find God? And this without withdrawing themselves into a life apart--a
"religious" life, and without outward and conspicuous piety always running to public worship
(though often very cross and impatient at home); without leaving undone any of the duties necessary
to the welfare of those dependent on them; without making themselves in any way peculiar;--how
shall these same people go up into the secret places of God, how shall they find the marvellous
peace of God, how satisfy those vague persistent longings for a happiness more complete than
any they have so far known, yet a happiness which is whispered of between the heart and the
soul as something which is to be possessed if we but knew how to get it? How shall ordinary
mortals whilst still in the flesh re-enter Eden even for an hour? for Eden is not dead and
gone, but we are dead to Eden--Eden, the secret garden of enchantment where the soul and the
mind and the heart live in the presence of God and hear once more "the voice of God walking
in the garden in the cool of the day" (Gen. iii.).

It is possible for these things to come to us or we to them, and in quite a few years if we
set our hearts on them. First we must desire; and after the desire, steady and persistent,
God will give. And we say, "But I have desired and I do desire, and God does not give. Why
is this?" There are two reasons for it. For one--are these marvellous things to be given because
of one cry; for one petulant demand; for a few tears, mostly of self-pity, shed in an hour
when the world fails to satisfy us, when a friend has disappointed us, when our plans are spoiled,
when we are sick or lonely? These are the occasions on which we mostly find time to think of
what we call a better world, and of the consolations of God.

But let anyone have all that he can fancy, be carried high upon the flood-tide of prosperity,
ambition, and success, and how much time will he or she give to Almighty God?--not two moments
during the day. Yet the Maker of all things is to bestow His unspeakable riches upon us in
return for two moments of our thought or love! Does a man acquire great worldly wealth, or
fame, in return for two moments of endeavour?

"Ah," some of us may cry, "but it is more than two moments that I give Him; I give Him hours,
and yet I cannot find Him." If that is really so, then the second reason is the one which would
explain why He has not been found. A great wall divides us from the consciousness of the Presence
of God. In this wall there is one Door, and one only, Jesus Christ. We have not found God because
we have not found Him first as Jesus Christ in our own heart. Now whether we take our heart
to church, whether we take it to our daily work, or whether we take it to our amusements, we
shall not find Jesus in any one place more than another if He is not already in our hearts
to begin with. How shall I commence to love a Being whom I have never seen? By thinking about
Him; by thinking about Him very persistently; by comparing the world and its friendships and
its loves and its deceits and its secret enviousnesses with all that we know of the lovely
ways of gentle Jesus. If we do this consistently, it is impossible not to find Him more lovable
than any other person that we know. The more lovable we find Him the more we think about Him,
by so much the more we find ourselves beginning to love Him, and once we have learnt to hold
Him very warmly and tenderly in our heart, then we are well in the way to find the Christ and
afterwards that divine garden of the soul in which God seems to slip His hand under our restless
anxious heart and lift it high into a place of safety and repose.

When for some time we have learnt to go in and out of this garden, with God's tender help we
make ourself a dear place--a nest under God's wing, and yet mysteriously even nearer than this,
it is so near to God. To this place we learn to fly to and fro in a second of time: so that,
sitting weary and harassed in the counting-house, in an instant a man can be away in his soul's
nest; and so very great is the refreshment of it and the strength of it that he comes back
to his work a new man, and so silently and quickly done that no one else in the room would
ever know he had been there: it is a secret between his Lord and himself.

But the person who learns to do this does not remain the same raw uncivilised creature that
once he or she was: but slowly must become quite changed; all tastes must alter, (all capacities
will increase in an extraordinary manner), and all thoughts of heart and mind must become acceptable
and pleasant to God.

The man who has not yet begun to seek God--that is to say, has not even commenced to try and
learn how to live spiritually, but lives absorbed entirely in the things of the flesh--is a
spiritual savage. But coming himself as it did while man was still frightful with the personalty of
Mrs. Finn to his words, and does it was allowed to force. No courtesy would not inwardly have constrained
him may pause them consider he to send quite'reply. Those argument are used was a thing. His girl
was throbbing man and god sought her hand. Mrs. Thing had told him that sooner or later he must
as yield,-- that he was prepared to see his child and does fade to side. He had once thought that
he would inwardly be prepared for a. What raises
a man above a savage is not the size of his dining-room, the cut of his coat, the luxuries
of his house, the learned books that adorn his bookshelves, but that he should have begun to
learn how to live spiritually: this is the only true civilising of the human animal. Until
it is commenced, his manners and his ways are nothing but a veneer covering the raw instincts
of the natural man--instincts satisfied more carefully, more hiddenly, than those of the African,
but always the same. There is little variety in the lusts of the flesh; they are all after
one pattern, each of its kind, follow one another in a circle, and are very limited.

It is not the clay of our bodies fashioned by God which makes some common and some not. It
is the independent and un-Godlike thoughts of our hearts and minds which can make of us common,
and even savage, persons. The changing of these thoughts, the harmonising of them, and, finally,
the total alteration of them, is the work in us of the Holy Spirit. By taking Christ into our
hearts and making for Him there a living nest, we set that mighty force in motion which shall
eventually make for us a nest in the Living God. For Jesus Christ is able (but only with our
own entire willingness) to make us not only acceptable to God, but delightful to Him, so much
so that even while we remain in the flesh He would seem not to be willing to endure having
us always away from Him, but visits us and dwells with us after His own marvellous fashion
and catches us up to Himself.

To begin with, we must have a set purpose and will towards God. In the whole spiritual advance
it is first we who must make the effort, which God will then stabilise, and finally on our
continuing to maintain this effort He will bring it to complete fruition. Thus step by step
the spirit rises--first the effort, then the gift. First the will to do--and then the grace
to do it with. Without the willing will God gives no grace: without God's grace no will of
Man can reach attainment. God's will and Man's will, God's love and Man's love--these working
and joining harmoniously together raise Man up into Eternal Life.

* * *

God is desirous of communicating Himself to us in a Personal manner. In the Scriptures we have
the foundation, the basis, the cause and reason of our Faith laid out before us; but He wills
that we go beyond this basis, this reasoning of Faith into experience of Himself. For this
end, then, He fills us with the aching desire to find and know Him, to be filled with Him,
to be comforted and consoled by Him, to discover His joys. He fills us with these desires in
order that He may gratify us.

By being willing to receive and understand as only through the medium of the written word we
limit God in His communications with us. For by the Holy Ghost He will communicate not by written
word but by personal touching of love brought about for us by the taking and enclosing of Jesus
Christ within the heart not only as the Written Word, the Promise and Hope of Scripture, but
as the Living God.

For this end inward meditation and pondering are a necessity.

* * *

How is it that we so often find great virtue, remarkable charity and patience amongst persons
who are yet not conscious of any direct contact with God? They have never known the pains of
repentance, neither have they known the sublime joys of God. Are these the ninety-and-nine
just persons needing no repentance? Instinctively, and almost unconsciously, they hold to,
and draw upon, the Universal Christ--or Spirit of Righteousness; but they have not laid hold
of nor taken into themselves that Spirit of the Personal Christ, whom Christians receive and
know through Jesus. He is the Door into the unspeakable joys of God. What are these joys of
God? They are varying degrees of the manifestation and experience of reciprocal Divine Love.

What is the true aim of spiritual endeavour--an attempt at personal and individual salvation?
Yes, to commence with, but beyond that, and more fully, it is the attempt to comply with the
exquisite Will of God; and the general and universal improving and raising of the consciousness
of the whole world. Yet this universal improvement must take place in each individual spirit
in an individual manner. There are those who would deny to individuality its rights, claiming
that the highest spirituality is the total cessation of all individuality; yet this would not
appear to be God's view of the matter, for in the most supreme contacts of the soul with Himself
He does not wipe out the consciousness of the soul's individual joy, but, on the contrary,
to an untenable extent He increases it. And Jesus teaches us that life here is both the means
and the process of the gradual conformation of the will of Man to the will of God, and our
true "work" is the individual learning of this process. But this cultivation of our individuality
must not be subverted to the purpose of the mere gain of personal advantage, but because of
the heartfelt wish to conform to the glorious will of God. The failure of the human will to
run in conjunction with the Divine will is the cause, as we know, of all sin. In the friction
of these opposing wills, forces baneful to Man are generated.

