But the haunting thing in the bishop's memory was the face and gesture of the little boy. That
grubby little finger stabbed him to the heart.

"Oh, God!" he groaned. "The meanness of it! How did I bring myself--?"

He turned out the light convulsively, and rolled over in the bed, making a sort of cocoon of
himself. He bored his head into the pillow and groaned, and then struggled impatiently to throw
the bed-clothes off himself. Then he sat up and talked aloud.

"I must go to Brighton-Pomfrey," he said. "And get a medical dispensation. If I do not smoke--"

He paused for a long time.

Then his voice sounded again in the darkness, speaking quietly, speaking with a note almost
of satisfaction.

"I shall go mad. I must smoke or I shall go mad."

For a long time he sat up in the great bed with his arms about his knees.

(5)

Fearful things came to him; things at once dreadfully blasphemous and entirely weak-minded.

The triangle and the eye became almost visible upon the black background of night. They were
very angry. They were spinning round and round faster and faster. Because he was a bishop and
because really he did not believe fully and completely in the Trinity. At one and the same
time he did not believe in the Trinity and was terrified by the anger of the Trinity at his
unbelief.... He was afraid. He was aghast.... And oh! he was weary....

He rubbed his eyes.

"If I could have a cup of tea!" he said.

Then he perceived with surprise that he had not thought of praying. What should he say? To
what could he pray?

He tried not to think of that whizzing Triangle, that seemed now to be nailed like a Catherine
wheel to the very centre of his forehead, and yet at the same time to be at the apex of the
universe. Against that--for protection against that--he was praying. It was by a great effort
that at last he pronounced the words:

"Lighten our darkness, we beseech Thee, O Lord ...."

Presently he had turned up his light, and was prowling about the room. The clear inky dinginess
that comes before the raw dawn of a spring morning, found his white face at the window, looking
out upon the great terrace and the park.

CHAPTER THE SECOND - THE WEAR AND TEAR OF EPISCOPACY

(1)

IT was only in the last few years that the bishop had experienced these nervous and mental
crises. He was a belated doubter. Whatever questionings had marked his intellectual adolescence
had either been very slight or had been too adequately answered to leave any serious scars
upon his convictions.

And even now he felt that he was afflicted physically rather than mentally, that some protective
padding of nerve-sheath or brain-case had worn thin and weak, and left him a prey to strange
disturbances, rather than that any new process of thought was eating into his mind. These doubts
in his mind were still not really doubts; they were rather alien and, for the first time, uncontrolled
movements of his intelligence. He had had a sheltered upbringing; he was the well-connected
son of a comfortable rectory, the only son and sole survivor of a family of three; he had been
carefully instructed and he had been a willing learner; it had been easy and natural to take
many things for granted. It had been very easy and pleasant for him to take the world as he
found it and God as he found Him. Indeed for all his years up to manhood he had been able to
take life exactly as in his infancy he took his carefully warmed and prepared bottle--unquestioningly
and beneficially.

And indeed that has been the way with most bishops since bishops began.

