Poor Emily! she had grown a great deal older in those six years.  At eighteen she had implicitly
believed in her mother.  Mrs. Deerhurst had been so good all those years of striving not to
frighten my father, that she had been perfection in her daughter's eyes.  Emily had believed
with all her heart in her apparent disinterestedness, and her hopes and sympathy for us were
real; and so, when the crash really came, and she told the poor girl with floods of tears that
it was impossible, and a thing not to be thought of, for a right-minded woman to unite herself
to a man of such birth.  And poor Emily, with the conscious ignorance of eighteen, believed,
and was the sort of gentle creature who could easily be daunted by the terror that her generous
impulses to share the shame and namelessness were unfeminine and wrong. The utter silence had
been the consequence of her mother assuring her, with authority, that the true kindness was
to betray no token of feeling that could cherish hope where all was hopeless, and that he would
regret her less if she commanded herself and gave him no look.

It had been terrible, calm self-command, and obedience to abused filial confidence in her mother's
infallibility.

And then Mrs. Deerhurst had been sinking ever since in her daughter's esteem, as Emily could
not but rise higher from the conscientious struggle and self-denying submission, and besides
grew older and had more experience; while Mrs. Deerhurst, no doubt, deteriorated in the foreign
wandering life, and all her motives made themselves evident when she married the younger daughter.

Emily had thought for herself, and seen that advantage had been taken of her innocence, and
that her betrothed had rights, which, if she had been older, she would not have been persuaded
to ignore.  But coming home, two years later, and meeting my cold eyes and Fulk's ceremonious
bow, and hearing on all parts that he had accepted his position and had a hard struggle to
maintain his two sisters; she, knowing herself to be portionless, could but suffer, and be still.

Of course every attempt of her mother's to get her to marry advantageously, and, even more,
Mrs. Deerhurst's devotion to Lady Hester, tore away more and more of the veil she had tried
to keep over her eyes; and as her youngest sister grew up into bloom, and into the wish for
society, Emily had been allowed more and more to go her own quiet way in the religious and
charitable life of Shinglebay, where she had peace, if not joy.

And then came the Dayman affair, when all the old persecution revived again, and Emily's foremost
defence against him, her blushing objection to his birth, was set aside as a mere prudish fancy
of a young girl.

The gentle Emily had been irate then, and all the more when her mother tried to cover her inconsistency
by alleging that everybody knew of Lord Torwood's fall, whereas no one knew or cared who Francis
Dayman was, or where he came from.  Henceforth Emily's shame at the usage of Fulk had been
double--or rather it turned into indignation. Reports that he was to marry a rich grazier's
daughter had no effect in turning her in pique to Dayman.  She had firmly told her mother that
if it were wrong for her to take the one, it must be equally so to take the other.

This Mrs. Deerhurst had concealed from poor Mr. Dayman; nor would Emily's modesty allow her
to utter the objection to the man's own face. So Mrs. Deerhurst encouraged him, and trusted
to London reports of the grazier's daughter, and persevering appeals to that filial sense of
duty which had been strained so much too far.

And now, how did it stand?

When I, secure in knowing that Alured was safe at home, thinking it abominable nonsense in
Miss Deerhurst to have bothered about scarlet fever, Hester herself had said so.  When I could
hear Fulk's happiness, and try to analyse it, what did it amount to?

Why, that they knew they loved one another still, and never meant to cease.  And with what
hopes?  Alas! the hopes were all for some time or other.  Emily would do nothing in flat disobedience,
and there was little or no hope of her mother's consent to her marrying Farmer Torwood.  She
meant to tell her mother thus much, that she had seen him, and that they loved each other as
much as ever; and as Mrs. Deerhurst had waived the objection to Dayman, it could not hold in
the other case.  It would be, in fact, a tacit compact--scarcely an engagement--with what amount
of meeting or correspondence must be left for duty and principle to decide, but the love that
had existed without aliment for six years might trust now.  And "hap what hap," there never
was a happier man than my Fulk that evening.

He was too joyous not to be universally charitable.  Nay, he called it a blessed fancy of Emily's
that brought her here, as it was Emily's, and had brought him such bliss he could not quite
scorn it, but he did not, could not believe in it as we did.  It was culpable carelessness
in Hester, but colonial people had been used to such health that they did not care about infection.
But it was a glorious act of Emily's! In fact the manly mind could believe nothing so horrible
of any woman.

CHAPTER VII.

HUNTING.

Emily told Mr. Dayman the whole truth.  Poor fellow! he could not face Fulk again, and went
back to Canada.

No doubt Emily went through a great deal, but we never exactly knew what.

Fulk wrote to Mrs. Deerhurst, stating that he hoped in four years' time to be able to purchase
the farm, of which he had the lease, and without going into the past, asking her sanction to
the engagement.

She sent a cold letter in answer, to desire that the impertinence should not be repeated.

And Emily wrote that her mother would not hear of the engagement, and she knew Fulk would not
wish her to deceive or disobey, "And so we must trust one another still; but how sweet to do that!"

And when any of us met her there were precious little words and looks, and Fulk meant to try
again after the four years.  In the meantime he was much respected, and had made himself a
place of his own.  It chafed Hester to perceive that though she had pulled us down she could
not depress us after the first.  She had lowered her position, too, by her marriage.   At first
Perrault was on his good behaviour, and made a favourable impression among the second-rate
Shinglebay society Hester got round her; but as the hopes of the title coming to her diminished,
he kept less within bounds, did not treat her well at home, and took to racing and gambling.

I never could get Fulk to share my alarms about Alured, but he did not think Perrault's society
fit for the boy, told Alured so, and forbade him to go to Spinney Lawn.  But though Alured
was much improved as to obedience, it was almost impossible to enforce this command.  Hester
had some strange fascination for him.  She would fiercely caress him at times, and he knew
she was his sister, and could not see why, when she was often alone, he should not be with
her.  The passion for Trevor was in full force, too, and the boys could not be content only
to meet at the farm.  We tried sending Alured to make visits from home in the holidays, but
he did not like it, and he was not happy; his heart was with his home, and with Trevor.  We
tried having a tutor for the spring holidays before he went to Eton, but it did not answer.
He was not a sensible man, did not like dining in the keeping-room with the household, and
though he did it, he showed that he thought it a condescension.

Moreover, instead of attending to Alured, he was always trying to flirt with Jaquetta, infinitely
disturbing Arthur Cradock's peace; and the end of it was, that Alured was a great deal more
left to his own devices than ever he had been before, and exasperated besides.

He was in that mood, when one day, as he was riding along the lanes, he met Perrault and Trevor
coming in from hunting.

Alured had a very pretty pony, but he was growing rather large for it, and Fulk had promised
that, if he worked well at Eton, he should have a lovely little Arab, that was being trained
by a dealer he knew; and that another year, Fulk himself would go out hunting with him.

Perrault began to pity him for having missed the run.  Why did not his brother take him out?
Fulk's old mare was a sort of elephant, and it was not convenient to get another horse just
then.  That Alured knew and explained, but he was pitied the more for being kept back, and
Perrault ended by saying that if on the next hunting day he could meet them at the corner of
the park, a capital mount should be there for him.

The hour was attainable if Alured made haste with his studies, and he accepted gladly, and
without compunction.  Fulk had never in so many words forbidden him, and besides, Fulk had
delegated his authority to the hateful tutor.

But the next morning, before Alured was up Trevor was in his bedroom. "You won't go, Trevorsham?"

"Yes, I shall; I'm not such a muff as to stay for that fellow."

But I need not try to tell what passed, as of course I did not hear it; I never so much as
knew of it till long after, only Trevorsham was determined, and Trevor tried all round the
due arguments of principle, honour, and duty; but Alured had worked up a schoolboy self-justification
on all points, and besides had the stronghold of "I will," and "I don't care."

Then Trevor told him, under his breath, he was sure it was not a safe horse.  But my high-spirited
boy laughed this to scorn.  "And perhaps he'll play you some trick," added Trevor.  But Trevorsham
was still undaunted in his self-will, till Trevor resolutely announced his determination, if
nothing else would stop it, of going at once to Fulk, and informing him.

The boy endured all the rage and scorn that a threat so contrary to all schoolboy codes of
honour and friendship might deserve.  I believe Alured struck him, but at any rate Trevor Lea
gained his point, though at the cost of a desperate quarrel.

Alured held aloof and sulked at him for the remaining fortnight at home, and only vouchsafed
the explanation to us that "Lea was a horrid little sneak, and he had done with him."

They did not make it up till they met in the same house at Eton, and then, though Trevor was
placed far above Alured, they became as friendly as ever.  In fact, I believe, Alured, having
imprudently denominated himself by his full title, was having it kicked out of him, when the
fortunate possessor of the monosyllabic name came and stood by him and made common cause, to
the entire renewing of love.

Poor Trevor! his was a dreary home.  His mother loved him passionately, but she was an anxious,
worn, disappointed woman, always craving, restless and expectant of something, and Perrault
was always tormenting her for money.  He was deeply in debt, and though he could not touch
the bulk of her fortune--neither, indeed, could she, as it was conveyed to trustees--he was
always demanding money of her, and bullying her; while matters grew worse and worse, and they
were in danger of having to let Spinney Lawn and go to live abroad.

As to keeping Trevor at Eton that was becoming impossible.  At Christmas the tutor consulted
Fulk about how he should get Lea's bills paid, and intimated that he must not return unless
this were done.

And poor Trevor himself had little comfort except with us.  We encouraged him to come to us,
for we had all come to have a very real love for the dear lad himself, and we saw he was unhappy
at home; besides that, it was the only way of keeping Alured contented.

Trevor had entirely left off inviting Alured to Spinney Lawn. Partly, he was too gentlemanly
and good a boy not to be ashamed of the men who hung about the stables; and besides, we now
perceive that the same awful impression that was on Emily Deerhurst was upon him, and that
he had a sense that Trevorsham was regarded in a manner that made his presence there a peril.

He was but a boy, and it was an undefined horror, and he never breathed a word of it; but oh,
there was a weight on that young brow, an anxious look about the face, and though now and then
he would be all joy and fun, still there was the older, more sorrowful look about him.

We thought he was grieving at not going back to Eton, and Fulk was living in hopes of an answer
to the letter he had written to Francis Dayman about it, but that was not all.  One day--Christmas
Eve it was--Mr. Cradock, on coming into the church to look at the holly wreaths, found Trevor
kneeling on his father's gravestone in the pavement, sobbing as if his heart was breaking,
and heard between the sobs a broken prayer about "Forgive"--"don't let them do it"--"turn mother's
heart."

Then Mr. Cradock went out of hearing, but he waited for the boy outside, and asked if he could
do anything for him.

"No."  Trevor shook his head, thanked him, and grew reserved.

CHAPTER VIII.

DUCK SHOOTING.

Alured's thirteenth birthday was on the 10th of January, and he had extracted a promise from
Fulk, to take him duck-shooting to the mouth of our little river.

Nothing can be prettier than our tide river by day, with the retreating banks overhung with
trees, the long-legged herons standing in the firs, looking like toys in a German box; while
the breadth of blue water reflects the trees that bend down to it.

But, on a winter's night, to creep in perfect silence and lie still under an overhanging bank,
not daring to make a sound, till you could get a shot at the ducks disporting themselves in
the moonlight, on the frozen mud on the banks!  Such an occupation could only be endurable
under the name of sport.

However, Fulk and Bertram had had their time, and now Alured was having the infection in his
turn; but Trevor was driven over to spend the day, much mortified that he had a bad broken
chilblain, which made his boots unwearable, and it was the more disappointing, that it was
a very hard frost, and there was a report that some wild swans had been seen on the river.

But in the course of the day Jaquetta routed out a pair of India rubber boots which, with worsted
stockings beneath, did not press the chilblains at all, and after having spent all the day
in snow-balling and building forts, Trevor declared himself far from lame, and resolved not
to lose the fun.  He had not come equipped, so Alured put him into an old grey coat and cap
of his own, and merrily they started in the frosty moonlight, with dashes of snow lying under
the hedges, and everything intensely light.  Fulk grumbling in fun at being dragged away from
his warm fire, and pretending to be grown old, the boys shouting to one another full of glee,
all the dogs in the yard clamouring because only the wise old retriever, Captain, was allowed
to be of the party; Arthur Cradock making ridiculous mistakes on purpose between the uncle
and nephew, Trevorsham and Sham Trevor, as he called them.

Alas!  Nay, shall I say alas, or only be thankful?

They had been gone some time when we heard a rapid tread coming towards the porch.  Something
in the very sound thrilled Jaquetta and me at once with dismay.  We darted out, and saw Brand,
the head gamekeeper in the park.

"Never fear, my lady; thank God," he said, "my lord is quite safe. It is poor Master Lea who
is hurt; and Mr. Torwood sent me up for some brandy, and a mattress, and a lantern, and some
cloths."

That assured us that he was alive, and we ran to fulfil the request in the utmost haste, without
asking further questions, and sending off Sisson to ride for the poor mother, and to go on
to Shinglebay for the doctor, though, to our comfort, we knew that Arthur had almost finished
his surgical education, and was sure to know what was to be done.

"A stray shot," we said again and again to each other; and we called Nurse Rowe, and made up
a bed in Alured's old nursery, and lighted a fire, and were all ready, with hearts beating
heavy with suspense before the steps came back--my poor Alured first, as we held the door open.
How pale his face looked! and his brows were drawn with horror, and his steps dragging, saying
not a word, but trembling, as he came and held by me, with one hand on my waist, while Fulk
and Sisson carried in the mattress, Arthur Cradock at the side, and Perrault, who had joined
them, walking behind with the flask.

Dear Trevor lay white with sobbing breath and closed eyes, the cloths and mattress soaked through
and through with blood.  They put him down on the keeping-room table, and Arthur poured more
brandy into his mouth.

I said something of the room being ready but Arthur said very low "He is dying--internal bleeding;"
and when Jaquetta asked "Can nothing be done?" he answered, "Nothing but to leave him still."

"Trevorsham," murmured the feeble voice, and Alured was close to him; "Ally! you are all right!"
and then again, as Alured assured him he would be better-- "No, I shan't; I'm so glad it wasn't
you.  I always thought he'd do it some day, and now you're quite safe, I want to thank God."

We did not understand those words then; we did soon.

The weak voice rambled on, "to thank God; but oh, it hurts so--I can't--I will when I get there."
Then presently "Mother!"

"She'll come very soon," said Alured.

"Mother! oh, mother! Trevorsham, don't let them know.  O Trev, promise, promise!"

"Promise what?  I promise, whatever it is!  Only tell me," entreated Alured.

"Take care of her--of mother.  Don't let--" and then his eyes met Perrault's, and a shudder
came all over him, which brought the end nearer; and all another spoonful of brandy could do
was to enable him to say something in Alured's ear, and then a broken word or two--"forgive--glad--pray;"
and when we all knelt and Fulk did say the Lord's Prayer, and a verse or two more, there was
a peaceful loving look at Fulk and Jaquetta and me, and then the whisper of the Name that is
above every name, as a glad brightness came over the face, and the eyes looked upwards, and
so grew set in their gaze, and there was the sound one never can forget.

Nurse Rowe laid her hand on Alured's neck, as he knelt with his head close to Trevor's.  Fulk
and I looked at each other, and we knew that all was over.

They had tried in vain to check the bleeding.  No one could have done more than Arthur had
done, but a main artery had been injured, and nothing could have saved him.  He had said nothing
after the first cry, except when he saw Alured's grief.  "Never mind; I'm glad it was not you."
And once or twice, as they carried him home, he had begged to be put down, though they durst
not attend to the entreaty, and Arthur did not think he had suffered much pain.

It jarred that just as we would have knelt for one silent prayer, Perrault's voice broke on
us.  "Ah! poor boy, it is better than if it lasted longer!  I saw that half-witted  fellow,
Billy Blake about. So I don't wonder at anything; but of course it was a mere accident, and
I shall not press it."

