When the train arrived at its destination, a couple of carriages conveyed the travellers on
the next stage of their journey, and with their arrival at the little fishing village came
the first hitch in the programme.  Arthur had written in advance to ask that two of the best
boats should be reserved for his party, and that a fisherman should be in readiness to go in
each, so that his friends need not exert themselves more than they felt inclined.  It is one
thing, however, to despatch an order to the depths of the country, and quite another to find
it fulfilled.  As a matter of fact, the letter was even now lying unopened in the village post-office,
and Arthur was confronted with the intelligence that men and boats had departed en masse to
attend a regatta which was taking place some miles along the coast. The Serranito took after the sticks, and as the public
saw him in the middle of the square, applauded.

- Smell your mare, salt!

Room also wanted them, but it happened once because the bull would not start. Again quartering
and returned to spend for the same reason. Again he went to the bull, and again happened. Then there
was some forward movement in the public heard a whistle, this was the bane of the poor lad.
Wounded his pride, rushed to the res-blind and wanted to stab him the flags at all costs, the bull,
which had not moved, you'll be hooked below arm and flipped. There was a cry of horror in the
square. The entire crews rushed on the animal, trying to take it, but to no avail. Cigarette
unnecessarily jumping heroically in front of the horns, by putting the cloth over the eyes; vain
Lagartijo Gordo and he also threw coats, exposing them to die, the bull, as if he had any Baldomero
unfortunate grievance, not listen to anything, and picked it up again and again threw air. Then
the cigar, last inspiration, dropped the coat, clutched tightly the tail of the beast and
began colearla; took many turns, at last fell sick, the Gordo took the coat away. In this the Serranito
had stood and smiled forcibly the public as the gladiator who wants to die with grace, touched
his chest and fell again, releasing jets of blood from wounds. Two Wise Monkeys picked him up and
took him to nursing, while others ran at once to cover the blood
with sand.

The president, who must have been shocked and upset as everyone in the audience, gave the death signal,
without considering that the bull had been placed not more than a couple of flags, and it was
dangerous for the sword that was so full of death. This was it! The public, who likes to show
good heart after the misfortunes that have happened, rose en masse,
becoming angry against the President, as if he was he had hit the
horns to Serranito.

- Barbarian, savage, murderer!

Frantic waving fists and batons against the president's box, his eyes blazing, blackness faces
anger. No one respected or even remember the majesty was at his side: the shouting the most vulgar
insults. But the president, though he was repented, and must be, judging from the confusion
that was reflected in his countenance, could not revoke the order, his dignity would not let him. Then
the crowd went to the cigar, who had taken the stuff, and shouted:

-
Do not kill, do not kill!

I kill that murderer!

The Cigarette shrugged her shoulders and prepared to go looking for the answer. At that moment
a bullfighter who came running said something in his ear, and the sword was terribly pale. The
public knew he had bad news Serranito. The killer took off his cap, passed his hand across
his brow with gloom, put it back and went toward the bull.

The cries went out instantly, mournful silence reigned in the square.

- He killed his brother! Killed his brother! - They said the audience's ear.

And all inexplicable anxiety felt a deep sympathy for the unfortunate
cigar.

He moved slowly, hesitant step towards the bull. But do not stop until stop drop cloth on the same
horns.

- Ole! - Roared the square silence reigned.

The bull jumped as if she felt a spur, and stirred immediately, furious. The sword gave him a
chest pass, above.

- Ole! - Roared back the square.

And again there was silence.

Other countries followed this natural and round, given as short and with such skill, that the public
wanted to go crazy. The matador's feet barely moved out of a circle or very narrow, but this circle
seemed sacred and insurmountable; the bull's horns passed rubbing
the old man's jacket matador without doing the slightest harm. Finally,
the beast both stirred and fed up with fruitless attack, stopped panting.
The bull and the bullfighter looked, wipe it quietly rolled, threw
the sword to the face and cited with the foot to receive. Came the
beast, furious, and she stuck the sword to the hilt. There repressed
a scream of excitement in the square. The bull stood motionless for
a moment against torero, threw a faint moo collapsed and fell on his
arms.

No one can represent what happened then: a delusion, a massive
nervous breakdown, ten or twelve thousand lunatics screaming at the
top of his lungs, a cloud of cigar, cigarette and hats flying through
the air and black carpeting instantly the white sand.  They
were all there, with tiny little pink-lined shells, and pebbles of marvellous transparency
which must surely, surely, be worth taking to a lapidary to examine! What cries of delight
followed the landing, what hasty summoning of the whole party to witness some fresh discovery;
what trippings on slippery stones, and splashing of fresh white dresses!  Then, too, the long-
checked pangs of hunger asserted themselves, and would no longer be restrained, and the men
were hardly allowed time to fasten the boat, go imperiously were they hurried on shore with
the precious freight of hampers.

Lunch was spread beneath the tree, and was no sooner finished than Mellicent inquired, "When's
tea?" a request which the hearers felt bound to deride, though in reality it found an echo
in every heart. Astonishing as it may appear, a picnic lunch invariably seems to create a longing
for the cup which cheers, and on this occasion the sea air had a sleepifying influence which
increased that desire.

"I re-ally think we had better have it soon. 

* * *

Toledo is a great album architecture, where each century has
placed its stone page.

See Toledo is read at the same moment in the history of Spain and the history of architecture.

Most
Arabs are rich in monuments Cordoba, Seville and Granada in Merida
and Segovia Roman works, in Gothic kingdoms of León and Castilla la
Vieja, but no city like it holds Toledo everything, nothing like it
can hold together great works of all time and all periods of art.

And is that Toledo is a city ten times historic ten times have risen from the ashes, which has been
corona crown on his forehead, reaching After all to be vested with all the grandeur of our national
history.

Its foundation, lost in the night's epic tale like everything is for a work of Hercules for others
it back to the source of authentic day, the Jewish people.

And just as the religion and paganism is the dispute, see how struggling after all invaders of Spain
by honorable .....

Ah! not all: that while it is true that the northern barbarians respected
fifteen centuries ago, is no less true that the nineteenth-century
French burned and destroyed their palaces and temples.

Either way, Toledo was the beloved city ever. The old Carpetania between their peoples account
patriarchal Rome from its colonies, including their slaves the Alans, among queens the Goths. It
seeks refuge in the nascent Christianity, and the renowned Toledo Councils exalt his fame in
all the towns visited by the Apostolic Men. Rodrigo settle into it after his corrupt court, and after
the Arabs overran ..... But Toledo will not have died yet. Even the big league will Alfonsos,
under the wandering Jews, home of Queen Isabella and Carlos I of Spain, home, finally, the
first dawn of freedom in time of Castilla.

Well, all this greatness, all this power, all this fortune is written on their many monuments. On more
than one tower dismantled, to which formed the foundation ruins of domination Rome, there are mullioned
window was first Arab, then Gothic warhead, then niche Renaissance and is now decorated with flowers to
a balcony that overlooks the daughter of the sexton. It deleted see the daffodils and canopies,
you notice the trail Stalactitic arc, seeing a rest ye lay Greco-Roman frieze, and perhaps
you find any Churriguera bizarre delusion, a mess and patched, but all eloquent and revealing past
destinations.

The Cathedral, above all, is the funerary urn of Spanish greatness. Every period of civilization
has his name engraved on it, every generation has left the dust of his heroes come across .-- melancholy
pride that museum in all of our artists have carved a column posted a picture or a saint carved
wood, where each has placed the flags conquistador of his army and won trophies taken to the army,
where kings have sought burial and poets and powerful, where a left her jewels, another your
library, this one sword and armor, that the works of his genius. It seems the Cathedral, considered
this Thus, an ancient matron, a venerable grandmother, to which everyone has told their sorrows,
entrusted their secrets, the legacy his glory, asked for advice in adversity and because a sentence
at the hour of death.

Enrique de Trastamara sleep there, the king fratricidal there saints and archbishops war against
the Moors, there on the same architects who, for many centuries, they built the cathedral, there D.
Álvaro de Luna, the proud enemy of feudalism and D. Suffering Henry III, and D. John I, and famous
queens, and princes and prelates, and ladies beautiful, who reigned in famous tournaments, there
are flags to the Hagrites caught in a hundred battles, and pearls and diamonds accumulated
by the Jews, and fresh Jordan and Berruguete sculptures, gates and a hundred authors, all of a
merit amazing and a thousand relics, votive thousand, a thousand
treasures authentic historical palaeography, art.

We repeat: the Cathedral is a museum, an archive, a vast library,
where the artist the poet, archaeologist, historian, all who love
the past, will find endless treasures.

For if we believe and as a building, as a work of architecture, like Gothic church, which new
wonders, what richness, what grandeur, what sublimity !.....

There is the whole history of the Gothic style from the Gothic, prior to the invasion of barbarian,
funny and pure until the thirteenth century. There are covers more beautiful than those of Notre
Dame and the very elegant in the cathedrals of Burgos and Seville,
there vaults bold, colorful roses, air canopies, studded with statues
coffers miniature stained glass that gently filters the light of heaven,
and thousands upon thousands of frames and archivolts that entertain
the eye and the imagination by their endless variety.

The original church was founded by St. Eugene, and she boarded the Moors a great mosque. Reconquered
the city, San Fernando did not want at the Cathedral of Toledo had not even traces of the infidels,
and destroyed to the ground, putting on that same place the foundation
stone today.

Two hundred and fifty years it took to build, and even today are still working on details of
ornamentation .....

But I am not able to continue, nor did I have time to sketch, as I would like, other Toledo monuments
.....-- This rapid review has been published in two hours, and compositors are removing me
from their hands that write pages as first intention.

He left them for when you slow down, assuming they ever become pregnant, describe The church and
cloister of San Juan de los Reyes ....., especially the cloister, which seems a stone garden,
half destroyed by a storm .....--¡ Ah, French !..... How not to die of shame, thinking that
destroys those artistic beauties?

I also feel unable to talk at length much of Caesarean Alcazar serves
as crown Wall to Toledo, then rising above the highest peak of the
city.

Suffice it to say that it is a work worthy of Charles V, Alonso de Covarrubias and Juan de Herrera.
The Great Emperor ordered to be built in that eminent place, where he lay in ruins that inhabited
the old fortress .....; Alfonsos large and it is known that, if down or up the monumental staircase,
stood on its high plateau and said: - "Only here I truly believe the Emperor."

In short: a whole volume would not suffice to summarize all there to do in Toledo, since is discovered,
stepped straight into that sort of peninsula or promontory big encircled by the deep Tajo,
and begins to climb the rugged hill, and passed the venerable Puente de Alcántara, and enters the
beautiful and historic Door Hinge, until that is traversed maze of crooked streets Arabic,
and down the opposite side, and becomes to take the field for the San Martín Bridge .-- synagogues,
mosques, minarets serve Christian churches, towers, doors as remarkable as that of Cambron,
which epitomizes Toledo's history, as have her hand in Wamba, the Moors and Charles V, ennobling
more and more with each restoration, ruins of palaces as interesting, respectively, those who
lived D. Pedro the Cruel and D. Enrique de Trastamara; walls of time D. Rodrigo; Bath of the Cava,
the Mozarabic Chapel of the Cathedral, the great arms factory, where
continue forging and tempering swords which earned us many victories
on other days; El Cristo de la Vega of the legend of Zorrilla, the
romantic Zocodover Square, the Inn Blood, a contemporary of Don Quixote,
I do not know how many things have excited me for my stay in Toledo
!.....

I will quote only, in conclusion, my last emotions will call
our eternal city.

It was time to return to Madrid, the world of politics and business .....

The afternoon was stormy ..... Black clouds and thunder threatened to remote to the Toledo a big
storm.

I had decided beforehand that it would be my last visit to the Cathedral, where he had been at least
eight times in the space of two days I wanted to say goodbye .....-- TOLEDO there solemnly.

My
traveling companion and dear friend, the distinguished musician D. Mariano Vázquez me at the
great Basilica, quite alone, sitting in front of the magnificent organ called the Dean, ripping
its deep bosom .-- solemn and pathetic moans played the funeral march
in the death of a Hero, written by Beethowen the day she learned that
Bonaparte had "fallen to the point being crowned Emperor ".-- The
clerk had also been provided to hold the office that was his own,
taking care of the bellows .....

The vaults of the cathedral trembled
before this storm of harmony that launched the powerful instrument.

The lights last week penetrated by flagging pierced rosettes, fantastic giving contours to the
figures painted on the glass .-- Down in the temple, was I just .....

Is the song of glory and death that exuded the body, fell on many
graves on such grandeur faded on much pride humiliated, as a franchise
or as a curse ?..... I do not know!

I lost in the shadow of those cold and lonely chapels, believed that
the dead hero Beethowen the composition was the Spanish honor.

In the distance I seemed to hear the laughter of the modern court of Spain, confused with laughter
of contempt of riffeños, the Mexican and Gibraltar holders. Up I thought I felt slapped-cheek
noise, and new laughter, and creaking bones that were removed indignant under slabs from the graves!

"Foreigners
!.....»-- insult us shouted a voice in the air .....

The court was
silent.

I lifted the front, and wanted to run away ..... But it was dark,
darkness around me .-- Here came my friend and me out of the Cathedral.

A

furious storm was dumping on Toledo ..... But the hour of departure the train and had to leave to escape
from the hail and hurricane, as souls to be carried the devil.

Three hours later I was in Madrid Swiss coffee.

June 1858.

ECLIPSE OF THE SUN 1860

I attest to having seen with my own eyes, yesterday to July 18, two to three in the afternoon,
from the venerable ruins of Sagunto, I mean from the top of Castle Murviedro.

To this end only the day before had left the village and court of Spain in the mail train. Passing
Valencia loved me, as was agreed, some poets of the banks Turia, with an old friend who joins
me and together we arrived at the castle one hour before the announced the schedule for the start
of the celestial tragedy.

In this historic place, where the area began to be fully visible catastrophe, was not constituted
any committee of astronomers, armed with instruments, to to do an autopsy to astro-king after
his death ....., and that is why we determined my friends and I set
up our observatory there poetic tiding of experience in solemn moment
all the emotions and religious drama of innocence or ignorance .....--
We were, then, alone with the tragic chorus, and the tragic chorus
consisted of peasants in the country ..... From those peasants who
rarely rise to the ancient fortress, but always to honor and glory
of Spain!

So I thought I saw the actual people from the village Saguntine up to the citadel. Thought on
the day their ancestors went through those same ramps carved into the rock, and not went down
again, but who died heroically and voluntarily, giving the Carthaginian hero the greatest
show of patriotism in recorded history, or remembered that other day most of our time, the troops
of Napoleon were dashed again and again against this dilapidated
fortress, guarded by a handful of brave, they had left the plow to
go up to defend his life at the expense of the old wall (Murviedro).

In truth, these historical considerations were very appropriate prologue to the epic event that
waited. This was Homeric dimensions, and as the sky, land and sea unfolded before our eyes were
the same twenty-two centuries ago, there were times I lost all consciousness
of time, or they mistook the past with the present, and even with
future, it was the eclipse .....

At my feet I saw the one hand, the
imposing ruins of the Roman Amphitheater, on the other, the village
present, around a green plain populated by carob, olive and mulberry
trees, and further the Mediterranean blue, or soft mountain ranges
delineating, so to speak, a magnificent and bright horizon.

The day was calm and warm. The sun light flooded the loneliness of space, encouraging and enlarging
the vast landscape.

Long, monotonous hum of cicadas and other insects lived in the air flying a dull and sleepy
murmur, which invite to nap. Callahan birds, lulled by the heat, and men too silent, attentive to
deicide that prepared in heaven.

On the left, and precisely where they began to pile up some ashen
clouds, we could see a break in the mountains, they told me gave way
to the Desert Palms .-- There as in other places on the Peninsula,
thousands of human beings, oblivious to the turmoil and narrow interests
of this life, they were like us in anticipation of the celestial phenomenon;
one born of love of science, others of worship to wonder, who's afraid,
who of mere curiosity.

As for myself, I felt at that moment the human race in a way that not had never considered: not as a
privileged species that meets these or those destinations in the world, not as actors in the great
theater of the universe, not as the main characters the long drama we call history, but only as
spectators housed in a small planet, as mere inhabitants of our globe,
as accidents of creation, as witnesses mysterious march of a thousand
worlds.

Science, politics, philosophy, hatred, ambition, love, war, woe, all that constitutes our everyday
life, had lost interest at that time. All men were equal. A power higher, the irresistible force
that governs the orbs, I was thinking about bigger things that society and civilization. What
were, what could be human powers when whole worlds appear as fragile pods lost in the infinite
space, and are browse saw at the mercy of powerful wind that pushes for their mysterious paths?

It
was already announced two time ....., and so long awaited by astronomers.

The eclipse had begun but not yet perceived any alteration in the sunlight.

At about half past two clouds began to fade, while the sea was growing increasingly bleak.

The sunlight was white as the moon, and the shade of black hard bodies,
but vague outlines.

The sky was clear, the clear atmosphere. The sun was at noon, and no But the night is approaching!

Our
faces were getting livid ..... Clarity funeral, which was not like
to the moon, but to the electric light, beautifully lit city and the
ruins Amphitheatre.

The clouds took a gray as ash. The darkening sea continued .....

And none of this seemed the evening !..... It was impressive to see that there, in regions upper
sky was still daylight, while the unfortunate land and atmosphere darkness was rife. Ie the light
of heaven and came to earth!

Moreover, to the naked eye could not tell yet any alteration in the sun's disk. Indeed, most of it was
eclipsed, but the light still perceived limbo, radiated glare enough
to hide our weak eyes to the great shadow that threatened and burial.

We, therefore, that the sun shimmered on the zenith, the sky, or is
the space to which no reached the shadow of the moon, was flooded
with light as before the phenomenon, and that without But the night
fell over the earth, suddenly, rapidly and without gradation or twilight
as if our planet had been very light and could blow off the Maker
suddenly.

In this - (and say everything that happened in less than a second) - in it instantly expires the
last glow, change their appearance all things look sort are two stars near the star dying:
make a terrible wind, cold, are the clouds ennegrécese sea; walking
in the shade at our feet, it seems that unhinges the sky, like when
you move a Shopping in the theater, the sun dies and replace it .....,
never seen a star, a meteor funeral and grand, more beautiful than
anything imagined by man !.....

A cry of terror comes a thousand
breasts.

  Think of some way by which we can
get back."

Rob looked at her fixedly, and his lips smiled, but his eyes were grave and steady.

"I'll try, Peggy," he said, "I'll do my best.  There is nothing I would not do for Mrs Asplin
and--you!  Remember always, whatever happens, that nothing you could have done for me to-day
would have made me so happy as asking my help in your trouble."  He turned away as he spoke
the last word, for the rest of the party were now approaching along the sands, bearing with
them a branch of a tree, and the table-cloth which had been used for lunch.  It had occurred
to Arthur that if a flag could be erected at this particular spot, it might possibly catch
the eyes of the fishermen, and attract them to call at the island on their way to the shore,
and the idea had been enthusiastically welcomed by his friends.  It is astonishing how speedily
the charms of a situation are minimised when that situation becomes a necessity instead of
a choice. Before the discovery of the missing boat, the island had seemed all that was charming
and romantic; now it seemed suddenly to have become chilly and forsaken, a bank of sand in
a waste of water; a prison-house rather than a pleasure-ground.  Eunice began to shiver, Mrs
Bryce felt certain that the grass was damp, and the professor was full of anxiety about his
fiancee.  One and all they were thankful for the occupation of erecting the flagstaff, and
Arthur had no lack of assistants in his task.  The hole was dug out to the proper depth with
the assistance of such motley tools as the ferrules of sticks and parasols, and the stones
which were scattered along the beach, while the cloth was sewed to the stick by the careful
Esther, who never by any chance travelled about without a needle full of cotton in her pocket,
in company with such other usefuls as sticking-plaster, hair-pins, and camphor pills.  The
camphor pills were brought forth now, and received a very different welcome from that which
would have been afforded them an hour before. Oh
      Rome! In your greatness, your beauty, Fled
    what was firm, and only It remains
    a fugitive and hard. "

We had our horses tied to the sturdy trunks of the orange aforesaid, we set the climb up the
ramp, which led us to the living gazebo, stay truly delicious more reminiscent of an Italian
villa or a Granada carmen that of a monastery hidden in the withdrawals
and diversions of a mountain in Extremadura.

There are four large arches that put the gazebo in direct relation to the rich environment and
vegetation that amenísimo magnificent gorge. Two of them give to the part where we climbed, serving
the one entrance to the ramp, and the other as a balcony, from which touched hand the fruits of
the orange vermilion of the compass, and discovers, through its branches, an elegant angle of
the adjacent church, perfect Gothic style, whose gentle warheads
erect slender reeds and needles, all in a sturdy golden stone for
ever infuse the spirit, in the midst of these abandoned ruins, arrogant
ideas of immortality.

The other two arches overlooking the south, and since they enjoy the peaceful contemplation la Huerta
and the forest of elms and all soft charms of that brief and peaceful horizon. Of that Huerta
climb, as noted, to penetrate through the arches in this room, parietal roses and climbers vines
with its elegant bell, not yet had closed that morning, also two large balconies determined by
both arches have the parapet on the inner face of the mighty or the wall, allowing for the full
width of it to two large beds or wall units that grew Carlos V, and is now also grown carefully.
Geraniums, roses and carnations pitiminí, all flowers, as I said we were in May, saw us in those
two little gardens as gracefully imagined and willing .-- When a little later came the Administrator
and his wife knew it, Madrid purebred aficionadísima, therefore, to pots, was the author of the
miracle that continue to dedicate to Flora the two beds that once cared Carlos de Austria.

I've described two sides of the room, gazebo, well I still have to say, between the arch that
communicates with the ramp and an adjoining, there is a stone bench, two bodies, much wider the bottom
than the top, which was built there to mount his horse Carlos V more
comfortably .....

Indeed, as reported by Fr Prudencio Sandoval in
his History of the Emperor, the horses Yuste it used in caesarean
section had nothing or martial, as derived from a jaquilla rather
small and old mule .-- As I was finishing forces that so often Europe
had traveled on horseback!

But because of this we have come to talk, listen to the same historian describe how as horse riding
last century the hero of heroes, the winner of thousand battles,
the iron man.

Since the jaquilla «....., only took three or four steps when he began
to cry that will go down, fading, and as I was surrounded by his servants,
and then removed, and from then never got in a horse.

"

Consider now how many thoughts will not come to mind when contemplating
this stone bench, terrible monument that proves all the weakness and
rapid obsolescence of that our machine human, so reckless, impetuous
and presumed in the few hours of youth, if by chance lends wings .....--
But fortune continue our description.

The north wall which is only notable for abutting the wall of the church and because one side
of the room-viewing is a pretty little fountain, carved in the shape
and style of which adorn the public parks or the palace gardens.

This source will have about two and a half yards high, and consists
of a round pillar of center of which a stout stem leaves or tree,
which then becomes funny group of children, very well sculpted, all
in a single piece of stone is quite similar to marble; kind of granite.

  An
hour ago Peggy had been the most agitated of the party, and had showed a terror inconsistent
with her character, yet now, when there seemed an even greater need for anxiety, she was calm
and quiet, a little white image of composure.

"Peggy," she whispered softly, "aren't you frightened?  Do you think he will--get there, Peggy?
Do you think he will be--safe?"

"I know he will be safe, Mellicent."

"But they say it is so dangerous!  They say it is a risk.  He might be drowned!"

"He will be safe, Mellicent.  I am quite sure of it."

"But, oh, Peggy, how can you tell?  How can you be sure?"

Peggy's eyes came round with a flash, and stared full in Mellicent's face.

"Because I love him, Mellicent!  Because we belong to one another, Rob and I, and I cannot
live without him.  Because I have asked God to take care of him for me, and I know He will do it!"

Mellicent shrank back aghast. In this, the charanga
sang real progress with energy, all faces turned to the regional viewpoint which appeared Queen Elizabeth:
Some clapped, others said 'hush, hush, "because the political atmosphere was then overcast with some
clouds who downloaded not long after. Made the signal, after all, the teams entered the arena
to the sound of the running of the zarzuela Pan y toros: out, as usual, forming three rows in front
of each was the respective sword. To see a prolonged burst of applause. Severe across the
square, firm, rhythmic, listening to the shouting that his appearance had raised with the utmost
indifference; its rich costumes and bright Capellaro live firing flares that pleases the eye.

- Mial, mial old! ... That is, to the left ... Mial which side has ... Le zumba the soul to this
guy! .. In Spain there is no longer bulls who receives more than he ...

All attention was concentrated on the plaza cigarette cases, despite the fact that also killed
Laurel and lizards, which was then beginning to be the darling of the public. But for the Madrid
fan, to see receive a bull is one of those dreams that never made although they live constantly
in the heart stand taken by several bullfighters, but receive receive
what is called truth, they have not done more than the ancient heroes
of bullfighting.

Uniform saluted with a gesture to the chair, and broke ranks, pulling layers gala friends in
the stands, who were responsible for their care with more pride than if they were the Ark of the
Covenant. The president took out his handkerchief, blew the bugle, the door opened pen: the first
bull appeared. Miura was a chestnut, chorreao, ribbon, thin and beautiful film, raised long
horn. Volunteer showed himself noble in the sticks, holding six Shiv of round picks. But to get to
the sticks began to fight back. However, the Serranito couple stabbed a superb room with fine
and clean, pleasantly surprised the public: in Madrid did not know, as in Seville, Baldomero was
a boy who would much to speak. Hake was passed once and then hung a stick room as well. He turned
Serranito to pick up the sticks, and after trying in vain to hang on the bias, put them breaking
with cleaning and expertise. There was a frenzy of clapping in the square, her slender figure and the unique
correctness and delicacy of her features, captivated the audience, the women you greedily dug
twins, triumphantly walked around the square to receive the applause
of smiling lines.

It was his turn to Cigarette: severely advanced to the presidency, took off his hat and he
croaked a few words that nobody could understand, then went straight to bull, which had marked tendency
to flee. Persiguiole some time unsuccessfully expectant curiosity through the square. Finally,
thanks to the efforts of the crew, could fret, and did pretty tight, giving some good passes,
the crowd applauded and the promised very happy. But amid the slaughter, the right-hander suffered
a strained and lost entirely aplomb, gave three or four passes without trust and broken, and
fast and running, without being either square the animal, rolled the cloth away and threw
quite a step of flags. The thrust was a dip in the most evil thing he had never seen. It's indescribable
anger that gripped the audience. Had it been another bullfighter had gone through a whistle,
large or small, but have conceived the hope of seeing a former teacher bullfighting by Montes
system and come to the square to witness that shame, this put out of his fans. What shouting, good
heavens! How insulting! I'm sorry!

It seemed that everyone had just robbed him the honor of his daughter.

- Morral, thief, big pig! So you hang by your feet! Are you the one who received the bulls?
A prison with that rascal! Mr. President, how soon would you have Civil Guard?

And amid the clutter, oranges, empty bottles and even a few stones,
flying the square, and right-hander hurt miracle. This advanced, pale,
embarrassed, to the presidency. Tended to reach near where they were
Enrique and Miguel, an orange accurate him in the face and drew blood. Truth to tell, he did not, for the mind
has a more powerful influence over the body than many of us suspect, and the last hour had
revealed a secret which made it seem impossible ever again to feel tired or discouraged.  Peggy
loved him!  The doubts of the past weeks had been but ugly dreams, and he was awake once more,
and in the sunshine. Throughout the drive to the station and the railway journey home, he kept
intentionally apart, not trusting himself to speak to her in the presence of strangers; but
if he seemed neglectful, Arthur abundantly made up for his absence by hanging lovingly round
his little sister, and waiting upon her with a persistency which seemed to betray some inner
remorse. The Serranito and Hake, who were with him, greeted further
expansion.

- Gave me a pair, is not it, Baldomero? - Shouted Henry.
- Ute not, and many ugly: to this young lady so that yeva remonísima
ute to the edge - answered Serranito. When it concluded, Baldomero sent a smile to his brother and handed him hand and
said to work:

- My little ones ...

- Loses cudiao, Baldomero - said the old man's voice and her hand knotted heart .-- Your child
will be mine.

At that moment there came a great shout in the square.

It was the people, who greeted the entry the fifth bull.

The cigar dropped sobbing in the arms of Michael.

- What a sadness, D. Miguelito gun, what sadness!

X

Quite a few ups and downs took the advent of Independence, "liberal
daily in the morning."

Our friend Mendoza nearly lost the right to run the streets clean. From the press the paper
store, hence the wording, the writing home of Rivers, and so the whole part of the day and night.
Most of the writers was appointed by the count, some were children
of regular commentators, other journalists who had starved to loose
some laudatory.

Finally, the first issue. Great was the surprise of Michael to read
under the title another short rengloncito said: "Director: Don Pedro
Mendoza and Pimentel. She could not suppress a sense of outrage.

-
But this fool, what will come to bear? - Whispered clutching the newspaper.
Y after a while, looking into panting, sweat running down his forehead
to Brutandor, he faced with him saying:

- Listen, Perico, are you
strong enough to guide me in the arduous tasks of journalism?  So
now, Peggikins, I have made my confession, and I don't know that I should have done it even
to you, but that my conscience upbraided me for having treated you shabbily to-day."

