MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS BY CHARLES DICKENS

Contents:

The Agricultural Interest Threatening Letter to Thomas Hood from an Ancient Gentleman Crime
and Education Capital Punishment The Spirit of Chivalry in Westminster Hall In Memoriam--W.
M. Thackeray Adelaide Anne Procter Chauncey Hare Townshend On Mr. Fechter's Acting

THE AGRICULTURAL INTEREST

The present Government, having shown itself to be particularly clever in its management of
Indictments for Conspiracy, cannot do better, we think (keeping in its administrative eye the
pacification of some of its most influential and most unruly supporters), than indict the whole
manufacturing interest of the country for a conspiracy against the agricultural interest. 
As the jury ought to be beyond impeachment, the panel might be chosen among the Duke of Buckingham's
tenants, with the Duke of Buckingham himself as foreman; and, to the end that the country might
be quite satisfied with the judge, and have ample security beforehand for his moderation and
impartiality, it would be desirable, perhaps, to make such a slight change in the working of
the law (a mere nothing to a Conservative Government, bent upon its end), as would enable the
question to be tried before an Ecclesiastical Court, with the Bishop of Exeter presiding. 
The Attorney-General for Ireland, turning his sword into a ploughshare, might conduct the prosecution;
and Mr. Cobden and the other traversers might adopt any ground of defence they chose, or prove
or disprove anything they pleased, without being embarrassed by the least anxiety or doubt
in reference to the verdict.

That the country in general is in a conspiracy against this sacred but unhappy agricultural
interest, there can be no doubt.  It is not alone within the walls of Covent Garden Theatre,
or the Free Trade Hall at Manchester, or the Town Hall at Birmingham, that the cry "Repeal
the Corn-laws!" is raised.  It may be heard, moaning at night, through the straw-littered wards
of Refuges for the Destitute; it may be read in the gaunt and famished faces which make our
streets terrible; it is muttered in the thankful grace pronounced by haggard wretches over
their felon fare in gaols; it is inscribed in dreadful characters upon the walls of Fever Hospitals;
and may be plainly traced in every record of mortality.  All of which proves, that there is
a vast conspiracy afoot, against the unfortunate agricultural interest.

They who run, even upon railroads, may read of this conspiracy.  The old stage-coachman was
a farmer's friend.  He wore top-boots, understood cattle, fed his horses upon corn, and had
a lively personal interest in malt.  The engine-driver's garb, and sympathies, and tastes belong
to the factory.  His fustian dress, besmeared with coal-dust and begrimed with soot; his oily
hands, his dirty face, his knowledge of machinery; all point him out as one devoted to the
manufacturing interest.  Fire and smoke, and red-hot cinders follow in his wake.  He has no
attachment to the soil, but travels on a road of iron, furnace wrought.  His warning is not
conveyed in the fine old Saxon dialect of our glorious forefathers, but in a fiendish yell.
He never cries "ya-hip", with agricultural lungs; but jerks forth a manufactured shriek from
a brazen throat.

Where is the agricultural interest represented?  From what phase of our social life has it
not been driven, to the undue setting up of its false rival?

Are the police agricultural?  The watchmen were.  They wore woollen nightcaps to a man; they
encouraged the growth of timber, by patriotically adhering to staves and rattles of immense
size; they slept every night in boxes, which were but another form of the celebrated wooden
walls of Old England; they never woke up till it was too late--in which respect you might have
thought them very farmers.  How is it with the police?  Their buttons are made at Birmingham;
a dozen of their truncheons would poorly furnish forth a watchman's staff; they have no wooden
walls to repose between; and the crowns of their hats are plated with cast-iron.

Are the doctors agricultural?  Let Messrs. Morison and Moat, of the Hygeian establishment at
King's Cross, London, reply.  Is it not, upon the constant showing of those gentlemen, an ascertained
fact that the whole medical profession have united to depreciate the worth of the Universal
Vegetable Medicines?  And is this opposition to vegetables, and exaltation of steel and iron
instead, on the part of the regular practitioners, capable of any interpretation but one? Is
it not a distinct renouncement of the agricultural interest, and a setting up of the manufacturing
interest instead?

Do the professors of the law at all fail in their truth to the beautiful maid whom they ought
to adore?  Inquire of the Attorney- General for Ireland. He is conscientious. He has a keen sense
of his responsibilities. He has unusual common sense.'And he named other similar virtues,'Well,'I asked
him,'What is his defect?'' Oh,'he replied,'the only trouble with Warren is that he lacks mentality.'"The
story, like most stories, exaggerates.

The President has the average man's virtues of common sense and conscientiousness with rather more
than the average man's political skill and the average man's industry
or lack of industry.

His mentality is not lacking; it is undisciplined, especially in its higher ranges, by hard effort.
There is a certain softness about him mentally. It is not an accident that his favorite companions
are the least intellectual members of that house of average intelligence, the Senate. They remind
him of the mental surroundings of Marion, the pleasant but unstimulating mental atmosphere of the
Marion Club, with its successful small town business men, its local storekeepers, its banker
whose mental horizon is bounded by Marion County, the value of whose farm lands for mortgages
he knows to a penny, the lumber dealer whose eye rests on the forests
of Kentucky and West Virginia.

The President has never felt the sharpening of competition. He was a local pundit because he
was the editor. He was the editor because he owned the Republican paper of Marion. There was
no effective rival. No strong intelligence challenged his and made him fight for his place.
He never studied hard or thought deeply on public questions. A man who stays where he is put
by birth tends to accept authority, and authority is strong in small
places.

The acceptance of authority implies few risks.

It is like staying in Marion instead of going to New York or even Cleveland. It is easier, and
often more profitable than studying hard or thinking deeply or inquiring
too much.

And Mr. Harding's is a mind that bows to authority. What his party says is enough for Mr. Harding.
His party is for protection and Mr. Harding is for protection; the arguments for protection
may be readily assimilated from the editorials of one good big city newspaper and from a few
campaign addresses.

His party is for the remission of tolls on American shipping in the Panama Canal and Mr. Harding
is for the remission of tolls. Mr. Root broke with his party on tolls and Mr. Harding is as
much shocked at Mr. Root's deviation as the matrons of Marion would be over the public disregard
of the Seventh Commandment by one of their number. His party became somehow for the payment
of Colombia's Panama claims and Mr. Harding was for their payment.

A story tells just how Senator Kellogg went to the President to oppose the Colombia treaty. After
hearing Mr. Kellogg Mr. Harding remarked," Well, Frank, you have something on me. You've evidently
read the treaty.

I haven't. "A mind accepting authority favors certain general policies. It is not sufficiently
inquiring to trouble itself with the details. Mr. Harding is for all sorts of things but is
content to be merely for them. A curious illustration developed in Marion, during the visits
of the best minds. He said to the newspaper men there one day," I
am for voluntary military training.

"" What
would you train, Mr. President, "asked one of the journalists," officers
or men?

"The President hesitated. At last he said," I haven't thought of
that.

"" But, "said one of his interlocutors," the colleges are training
a lot of officers now.

"This brought no response.

Another who had experience in the Great War remarked," In the last war we were lacking in trained
non-coms; it would be a good idea to train a lot of them.

"" Yes, "rejoined Mr. Harding eagerly," That would be a good idea.

"A more inquiring mind would have gone further than to be" for voluntary military training. "A
quicker, less cautious, if no more thorough mind would have answered the first question," What
would you train, officers or men? "by answering instantly" Both.

"In that colloquy you have revealed all the mental habits of Mr. Harding. He was asked once, after
he had had several conferences with Senator McCumber, Senator Smoot, Representative Fordney,
and others who would be responsible for financial legislation," Have you worked out the larger
details of your taxation policy?

"" Naturally not! "was his reply.

That" naturally "sprang I suppose from his habit of believing that somewhere there is authority.
Somewhere there would be authority to determine what the larger details of the party's financial
policy should be.

Now, this authority is not going to be any one man or any two men. The President, his friends
tell us, is jealous of any assumption of power by any of his advisers.

He is unwilling to have the public think that any other than himself is President. A man as handsome
as Harding, as vain of his literary style as he is, has an ego that is not capable of total
self-effacement. He will bow to impersonal authority like that of the party, or invoke the anonymous
governance of" best minds, "calling rather often on God as a well
established authority, but he will not let authority be personal and
be called Daugherty, or Lodge or Knox or whomever you will.

The President's attitude is rather like that of the average man during the campaign. If you
said to a voter on a Pullman," Mr. Harding is a man of small public experience, not known by
any large political accomplishment, "he would always answer optimistically," Well, they will
see to it that he makes good. "Asked who" They "were he was always vague and elusive, gods on the
mountain perhaps. There is an American religion, the average man's faith: it is" Them. "" They
"are the fountain of authority.

As Mr. Harding knew little competition in Marion so he has known little competition in public
life which in this country is not genuinely competitive. Mr. Lloyd George is at the head of
the British government because he is the greatest master of the House of Commons in a generation
and he is chosen by the men who know him for what he is, his fellow members of the House of Commons.
An American President is selected by the newspapers, which know little about him, by the politicians,
who do not want a master but a slave, by the delegates to a national convention, tired, with
hotel bills mounting, ready to name anybody in order to go home. The presidency, the one great prize
in American public life, is attained by no known rules and under
conditions which have nothing in them to make a man work hard or think
hard, especially one endowed with a handsome face and figure, an ingratiating
personality, and a literary style.

The small town man, unimaginative and of restricted mental horizon does not think in terms of
masses of mankind. Masses vaguely appall him. They exist in the big cities on which he turned
his back in his unaudacious youth. His contacts are with individuals. His democracy consists
in smiling upon the village painter and calling him" Harry, "in always nodding to the village cobbler
and calling him" Bill, "in stopping on the street corner with a group, which has not been invited
to join the village club, putting his hand on the shoulder of one
of them and calling them" Fellows.

"Politics
in the small town is limited to dealing with persons, to enlisting the support of men with a following
at the polls.

Mr. Harding once drew this picture of his idea of politics."

If I had a policy to put over I should go about it this way, "he said." You all know the
town meeting, if not by experience, by hearsay. Now if I had a program that I wanted to have adopted
by a town meeting I should go to the three or four most influential men in my community. I should
talk it out with them. I should make concessions to them until I had got them to agree with me.
And then I should go into the town meeting feeling perfectly confident
that my plan would go through.

Well it's the same in the nation as in the town meeting, or in the whole world, if you will.
I should always go first to the three or four leading men.

"Mr. Harding thinks of politics in this personal way. He does not conceive of it as the force
of ideas or the weight of morality moving the hearts of mankind. Mankind is only a word to him,
one that he often uses,-- or perhaps he prefers humanity, which has two more syllables-- a large
loose word that he employs to make his thought look bigger than it
really is, something like the stage device for making an ordinary
man seem ten feet tall.

Thus he will never try to move the mass of the people as his predecessors have. He will not" go
to the country. "He will not bring public opinion to bear as a disciplinary force in his household.
He will treat the whole United States as if it were a Marion, consulting endless" best minds,
"composing differences, seeking unity, with the aid of his exceptional
tact.

This attitude has its disadvantages. If you have a passion for ideas and an indifference for
persons you can say" yes "or" no "easily; you may end by being dictatorial
and arrogant, as Mr. Wilson was; but you will not be weak.

If, on the contrary, you are indifferent to ideas and considerate of persons you find it hard
to say" Decided "to any question. And somewhere there must be authority, the passing of the final
judgment and the giving of orders.

But he compensates for his own defects. Almost as good as greatness is a knowledge of your own
limitations; and Mr. Harding knows his thoroughly. Out of his modesty, his desire to reinforce
himself, has proceeded the strongest cabinet that Washington has seen in a generation. He likes
to have decisions rest upon the broad base of more than one intelligence and he has surrounded
himself for this purpose with able associates. His policies will lack imagination, which is
not a composite product, but they will have practicality, which is the greatest common denomination
of several minds; and he, moreover, is himself unimaginative and
practical.

Whatever superstructure of world organization he takes part in, behind
it will be the reality, a private understanding with the biggest man
in sight; for this reason the fall of Lloyd George and the succession
of a Labor government in England will disconcert him terribly.

The democratic passion for equality, which dogs the tracks of the great, he mollifies by reminding
the nation always that he is" just folks, "by opening the White House
lawn gates, by calling everyone by his first name.

So constant is his aim to appease it that I wonder if he is not sometimes betrayed into addressing
his Secretary of State as" Charley.

"WOODROW WILSON The explanation of President Wilson will be found
in a certain inferiority.

When all his personal history becomes known, when his papers and letters have all been published
and read, when the memoirs of others have told all that there is
to be told, there will stand clear something inadequate, a lack of
robustness, mental or nervous, an excessive sensitiveness, over self-consciousness,
shrinking from life, a neurotic something that in the end brought on
defeat and the final overthrow. He was never quite a normal man with
the average man's capacity to endure and enjoy but a strange, impeded,
self-absorbed personality.

History arranged the greatest stage of all time, and on it placed a lot of little figures," pigmy
minds "-- all save one, and he the nearest great, an unworldly person
summoned from a cloister, with the vision of genius and the practical
incapacity of one who has run away from life, hating men but loving
all mankind, eloquent but inarticulate in a large way, incapable of
true self expression in his chosen field of political action, so self-centered
that he forgot the world's tragedy and merged it into his own, making
great things little and little things great, one of" life's ironies,
"the everlasting refutation of the optimistic notion that when there
is a crisis fate produces a man big enough to meet it.

The world finds it hard to speak of Mr. Wilson except in superlatives. A British journalist
called him the other day," the wickedest man in the world. "This was something new in extravagance.
I asked," Why the wickedest? "He said," Because he was so unable to forget himself that he brought
the peace of the world down in a common smash with his own personal fortunes. "On the other
hand General Jan Christian Smuts, writing with that perspective which distance gives, pronounces
it to be not Wilson's fault but the fault of humanity that the vision of universal peace failed.
Civilization was not advanced enough to make peace without vindictiveness possible. This debate
goes on and on.

Mr. Wilson is either the worst hated or the most regretted personality of the Great War. The
place of no one else is worth disputing.

Lloyd George is the consummate politician, limited by the meanness of his art. Clemenceau is the
personification of nationality, limited by the narrowness of his view. Mr. Wilson alone had his hour
of superlative greatness when the whole earth listened to him and
followed him; an hour which ended with him only dimly aware of his
vision and furiously conscious of pin pricks.

You observe this inadequacy in Mr. Wilson, this incapacity to endure, at the outset of his career.
It is characteristic of certain temperaments that when they first face life they should run away
from it as Mr. Wilson did when, having studied law and having been
admitted to the bar, he abandoned practice and went to teach in a
girls'school.

That
was the early sign in him of that sense of unfitness for the more arduous contacts of life which
was so conspicuous a trait during his presidency. He could not endure meeting men on an equal
footing, where there was a conflict of wills, a rough clash of minds, where no concession was made
to sensitiveness and egotism.

Some nervous insufficiency causes this shrinking, like the quick retreat from cold water of an inadequate
body. Commonly a man who runs away from life after the first contact with it hates himself for
his flight and there begins a conflict inside him which ends either
in his admission of defeat and acknowledgment of his unfitness or
in his convincing himself that his real motive was contempt of that
on which he turned his back.

If he admits to himself that he is really a little less courageous, a little more sensitive, a little
less at home in this world, then he is gone. If he does satisfy himself that he is superior,
has higher ideals, worthier ends, despises the ordinary arts of success he becomes arrogant, merely in self
defense. Mr. Wilson's" intellectual snobbism "was this kind of arrogance, acquired for moral
self preservation, like that of the small boy who when his companions refuse
to play with him says to himself that he is smarter than they are,
gets higher marks in school, that he has a better gun than they have
or that he, when he grows up, will be a great general while they are
nobody.

Almost everyone who feels himself unequal in some direction can satisfy himself that he exceeds in
others. It is a common and human sort of arrogance, and Mr. Wilson
had it inordinately.

He hated and contemned the law, in which life had given him his first glimpse of his frailty. He would have
no lawyers make the peace or draft the covenant of the league of
nations.

Lawyers were pitiful creatures,-- he kept one of them near him, Mr.
Lansing, admirably chosen, to remind him of how contemptible they
were, living in fear of precedents, writing a barbarous jargon out
of deeds and covenants, impeding the freedom of the imagination with
their endless citations.

He despised politicians, he despised business men, he despised the whole range of men who pursue
worldly arts with success. He despised the qualities which he had not himself, but like all
men who are arrogant self protectively he was driven to introspection and analyzed himself pitilessly.
The public got glimpses of these analyses.

Sometimes he called that something in him which left him less fit for the world than the average, a little
regretfully," his single track mind. "Sometimes it leaped to light as an object of pride, his arrogance
again, a pride that was" too great to fight, "like the common run of men,-- in the law courts
or on the battlefields. He kept asking himself the question," Why
am I not as other men are?

", and sometimes his nature would rise up in protest and he would exclaim that he was as other
men were and would pathetically tell the world that he was" misunderstood,
"that he was not cold and reserved but warm and genial and kindly,
only largely because the world would see him as he was.

But
always the one safe recourse, the one assurance of personal stability
was arrogance. Contempt was the most characteristic habit of his mind.
Out of office he is no sage looking charitably at the fumbling of
his successor. A friend who has seen him since his retirement describes
him as watching" with supreme contempt "the executive efforts of Mr. Harding.
Washington gossip credits him with inventing the phrase," the bungalow
mind, "to describe the present occupant of the White House.

Another remark
of his about the new President is said to have been" I look forward
to the new administration with no unpleasant anticipations, except those
caused by Mr. Harding's literary style. "There is always his contrast of others
with himself to their disadvantage, mentally or morally, as writers,
or leaders, or statesmen.

So
full a life as Mr. Wilson led in the last dozen or more years ought to have
made him less self-conscious. A robuster person would have hated with a
certain zest, continued with a certain gaiety, laughed as he fought,
found something to respect in his foes, seen the curtain fall upon
his own activities with a certain cheerfulness. They who are too
ragged, wretched, filthy, and forlorn, to enter any other place:  who could gain admission
into no charity school, and who would be driven from any church door; are invited to come in
here, and find some people not depraved, willing to teach them something, and show them some
sympathy, and stretch a hand out, which is not the iron hand of Law, for their correction.

Before I describe a visit of my own to a Ragged School, and urge the readers of this letter
for God's sake to visit one themselves, and think of it (which is my main object), let me say,
that I know the prisons of London well; that I have visited the largest of them more times
than I could count; and that the children in them are enough to break the heart and hope of
any man.  I have never taken a foreigner or a stranger of any kind to one of these establishments
but I have seen him so moved at sight of the child offenders, and so affected by the contemplation
of their utter renouncement and desolation outside the prison walls, that he has been as little
able to disguise his emotion, as if some great grief had suddenly burst upon him.  Mr. Chesterton
and Lieutenant Tracey (than whom more intelligent and humane Governors of Prisons it would
be hard, if not impossible, to find) know perfectly well that these children pass and repass
through the prisons all their lives; that they are never taught; that the first distinctions
between right and wrong are, from their cradles, perfectly confounded and perverted in their
minds; that they come of untaught parents, and will give birth to another untaught generation;
that in exact proportion to their natural abilities, is the extent and scope of their depravity;
and that there is no escape or chance for them in any ordinary revolution of human affairs.
Happily, there are schools in these prisons now.  If any readers doubt how ignorant the children
are, let them visit those schools and see them at their tasks, and hear how much they knew
when they were sent there.  If they would know the produce of this seed, let them see a class
of men and boys together, at their books (as I have seen them in the House of Correction for
this county of Middlesex), and mark how painfully the full grown felons toil at the very shape
and form of letters; their ignorance being so confirmed and solid.  The contrast of this labour
in the men, with the less blunted quickness of the boys; the latent shame and sense of degradation
struggling through their dull attempts at infant lessons; and the universal eagerness to learn,
impress me, in this passing retrospect, more painfully than I can tell. 

When PILCH went a-slogging, and CLARKE Was a-studying slow underhand lobs? Hooray for that evergreen
spark, The veteran Guard, MOSES NOBBS!

[1] Why, MOSES, thus bring to a close Your fifty-six years on the road? Do you yearn, after
all, for repose, Who with zeal half-a-century glowed? The Muse makes her moan at your loss, And Sentiment
silently sobs. Ah! Time, friend, will play pitch-and-toss With all
of us, even a NOBBS!

One sees your Mail-Coach all a-blaze, A masterly hand on the rein,
In those rollicking, railway-less days, Which never shall greet us
again.

That tootling tin-horn one can hear; The old buffers, with breeches and fobs, One can picture;
they doubtless were dear To the bosom of brave MOSES NOBBS.

That blunderbuss, too! Good old Guard! At what Knight of the Road has it shot? And do you remember
the bard Who gave us "The Tantivy Trot?" Mr. EGERTON WARBURTON's gone, No longer the Highwayman
robs; And silence now settles upon The Last of the Guards-- MOSES
NOBBS!

Yet oblivion shall not descend On that name till a stave hath been sung. The Muse is antiquity's
friend, And in praise of the past will give tongue.

If CRACKNALL, the Tantivy Whip, Claimed song, they're but parvenu snobs Who say that the lyre
should let slip The memory of stout MOSES NOBBS.

The Mail-Coach, my NOBBS, is no more What it was when you put on the man; We've Mail Trains, all
rattle and roar, And that portent, the Packet Post Van. A Pullman, and not the Box-seat, Is
the aim of our modern Lord BOBS; But the old recollections are sweet;
And Punch drinks to your health, MOSES NOBBS!

[Footnote 1: The Telegraph gives the gentleman's name both as "NOBBS" and "NOGGS." As "NOBBS"
comes first, Mr. Punch adopts it, he hopes without misnaming the
illustrious veteran.]********** CONFESSIONS OF A DUFFER.

IV.-- THE DUFFER AS COLLECTOR.

I may be a Duffer, but I hope I am neither an idiot nor a cad.

I have never collected postage-stamps, nor outraged common humanity
by asking people to send me their autographs.

With these exceptions I have failed as a collector of almost everything.

To succeed you need luck, and a dash of unscrupulousness, and careful attention to details, and a sceptical
habit of mind.

Even as a small boy I used to waste my shillings at a funny little curiosity-shop, kept by a
nice old lady who knew no more about her wares than I did. Here I acquired quite a series of
old coppers, which Mrs. SOMERVILLE said were ancient Bactrian. We asked where Bactria was,
and she replied that it was a "country beyond Cyrus." We answered that Cyrus was not a territorial
but a personal name, "A fellow, don't you know, not a place," but the old lady's information stopped
there. I wonder where my Bactrian Collection is now. Certainly I never sold it; indeed, I never
sold anything; not only because nobody would buy, but because, after all, one is a Collector,
not a tradesman. Birds'eggs I would have collected if I could, but you had first to find the bird's
nest (almost an impossible quest for a born Duffer), and to blow
the eggs, which, let me tell you, needs nicety of handling.

I did once find a thrush's nest, and tried blowing an egg, but it was not wholly a success, and
the egg (the contents of which I accidentally absorbed) was not wholly fresh. Then it is awkward when
you are at the top of a tall tree, with an egg in your mouth, for safety, if the other boys make
you laugh, as you try to come down. It is the egg which,-- but enough! Everyone who has been in that
position will understand what is meant. It is not difficult to collect shells on the seashore,
but it is extremely difficult to find out what shells they are, after you have collected them. Conchology
is no child's play. As to collecting marine animals for an aquarium,
the trouble begins when you forget your acquisitions, and carry them
about for some time in the pockets of your jacket. That jacket is apt
to be dusted by the bigger boys, who also interfere with your affections
for toads, lizards, snakes and other live stock dear to youth.

The common ambition of boyhood is to be a great rabbit-grower,
but, somehow, my rabbits did not thrive. The cats got at them, and, in
shooting at the cats with a crossbow, I had the misfortune to break
several windows, and riddle a conservatory. The chief objects of my later
ambition have been rare old books, gems, engravings, china, and so forth.
All these things, if they are to be collected, demand that you shall have your
wits about you; and the peculiarity of the Duffer is that his wits
are always wool-gathering.  I made the attempt; and have heard no more of the subject from that hour. 

The old Mr. Hughes, or the new Mr. Hughes? "for he has had, as the literary critics would say, his
earlier and his later manner.

But it is chiefly manner, a smile recently achieved, a different way of wearing the beard, a
little less of the stern moralist, a little more of the man of the
world.

A connoisseur of Hughes, who has studied him for nearly twenty years, after a recent observation,
pronounced judgment:" It's the same Hughes, a trifle less cold, but just as dry. "And the Secretary
of State himself, when one of the weeklies contained an article on" The New Mr. Hughes, "remarked,"
People did not understand me then, that is all.

"These two eminent authorities being substantially agreed for the first time during many divergent
years, there must be something in it. Mr. Hughes must be a gradually emerging personality. You
take that new warmth, recently detected; Mr. Hughes himself knows it was always there. It
is like the light ray of a star which has needed a million years to reach the earth; it was
always there but it required a long time to get across.

Then the beard:-- when Mr. Hughes was" handing the government back to the people "in New York, it
was a preacher's beard; you might have encountered its like anywhere among the circuit riders.
Now it is a foreign secretary's beard; you might encounter it in any European capital,--
a world statesman's beard. The change of beard reveals the smile, which was probably always there,
and the splendid large teeth. The nose, standing out in bolder relief, is handsomer and more
distinguished. You see more of Mr. Hughes than you used to and you
gain by the improved vision.

Something has dropped from him, however, beside the ends of the whiskers. I met him first when he
was about to run for President in 1916. An icy veil, like frozen
mist, seemed to hang between us.

We talked through it ineffectively.

When I saw him again as Secretary of State, that chill barrier had fallen away; to recur to my
figure, he gradually emerges.

Mr. Hughes of the later manner is, however, I am persuaded after long
familiarity with his career, more truly Hughesian than the Hughes
of the earlier manner; just as the Henry James of the later manner
is more explicitly Jamesian than the James of the earlier manner,
and the Cabot Lodge of the present is much more irretrievably Cabotian
than the Cabot Lodge who years ago stood with reluctant feet where
the twin paths of scholarship and politics meet,-- and part.

I should say that Mr. Hughes was Bryan plus the advantages, which Mr. Bryan never enjoyed,
of a correct Republican upbringing and a mind.

The Republican upbringing and the mind have come of late years to preponderate. Looking at
Mr. Hughes to-day, you could not tell him from a Republican, except perhaps by his mind, though
such esoteric Republicans as Brandegee, Cabot Lodge, and Knox profess
an ability to distinguish.

But
when he was" handing the government back to the people "in New York, there was too much Bryan
about him. The Republicans would have none of him, except as a choice of evils,-- the greater
evil being defeat. They called him ribald names. They referred to him scornfully as" Wilson
with whiskers, "when they ran him, reluctantly, for the Presidency in 1916. His opponent being also
of the Bryan school, and a minister's son at that, Hughes striving for an issue, failed to
make it clear which was which, a doubt that remained until the last vote from California was
finally counted after the election. This was the Mr. Hughes of the
earlier manner.

Latterly, Mr. Hughes has succeeded in establishing the distinction which he did not succeed in
making during that campaign. When he confronted the task of Secretary of State, he carefully studied
the international career of Woodrow Wilson, as a sort of inverse
Napoleon, a sort of diplomatic bad example."

This, "he said to himself," was a mistake of Wilson, "and he noted it." And this, "he observed
thoughtfully," was another mistake of Wilson. I shall avoid it. "" This, "he again impressed on
his memory," was where Lloyd George and Clemenceau trapped him. I
shall keep out of that pit.

"His
head, like a book of etiquette, is full of" Don'ts, "diplomatic" Don'ts, "all deduced from the
experience of Wilson.

The former President met Europe face to face. Mr. Hughes thanks his stars for the breadth of
the Atlantic. The former President put his League of Nations first on his program. Mr. Hughes
puts his League of Nations last, to be set up after every other question
is settled.

The former President tried to sell the Country pure idealism. Now as a people we have the habit of
wars in which we seek nothing, but after which, in spite of ourselves, a little territory,
a few islands, or a region out of which we subsequently carve half a dozen States, is found
adhering to us. Mr. Wilson offered us a war in which, of course, we sought nothing and found,
at the end of it, not the customary few trifles of territory, but the whole embarrassing, beggarly
world adhering to us. The thumbscrew and the rack could not wring from Mr. Hughes the admission
that we are after anything more lofty than our interests.

One of the present Secretary's" Don'ts "of similar derivation is" Don't have a fight with the
Senate unless you make sure first that you have the public with you.

"Mr. Hughes does not run away from fights; he likes them. But believing God to be on the side with
the most battalions, and intending scrupulously to observe this last" Don't, "in order to secure
the necessary popular support, he is as Secretary of State," handing the government back to
the people, "just as he did when governor,-- a little less self-consciously, perhaps, a little
less noisily, but still none the less truly.

He is the most democratic Secretary of State this Country has ever had, and this includes Bryan
to whose school, as has just been remarked, he originally belonged. If we are ever to have democratic
control of foreign relations, it will be by the methods of Mr. Hughes, because of the training
and beliefs of Mr. Hughes, and as a consequence of the most undemocratic control of foreign
relations which our Constitution attempted to fasten upon us.

A successful foreign policy requires public understanding and support. The makers of the Constitution
established in our government a nice balance of powers between the various departments, beautifully
adjusted until someone thought of putting a stone into one side of the balance. That stone is the
people. The Fathers of the Constitution had not noticed it. The executive put it into its
end of the balance some years ago, and the legislative has been kicking
the beam ever since.

One nice bit of balancing was that between the Senate and the Executive on treaty making.
In foreign relations, the President can do everything, and he can do nothing without the approval
of two thirds of the Senate. It is a nice balance, which broke the heart of John Hay, frittered
away the sentimentalities of Mr. Bryan, and destroyed Mr. Wilson.

No one ever thought of putting the stone into it until the Senate did so two years ago, by discussing
the Versailles treaty in the open, right before the public. The people got into the scale,
and Mr. Wilson hit the sky.

Mr. Hughes observed what happened.

He is determined that the stone this time shall go in on his end of the balance. He talks to
the country daily. He takes the people into his confidence, telling all that can be told and as
soon as it can be told. He makes foreign relations hold front pages with the Stillman divorce
case. He makes no step without carrying the country with him. He comes as near conducting a daily
referendum on what we shall do for our" interests "as in a country so big as ours can be done;
and that is democratic control of foreign relations, initiated by
the Senate, for its own undoing.

Into
that balance where he is placing the stone, he will put more of mankind's destinies than any
other man on earth holds in his hands to-day. His has been a long way up from the shy, sensitive
youth that one who knew him when he was beginning the law describes to me. He was then unimaginably
awkward, incapable of unbending, a wet blanket socially. An immense effort of will has gone
into fashioning the agreeable and habitual diner-out of to-day, into
profiting by the mistakes of the New York governorship, of the campaign
of 1916.

One sees still the traces of the early stiffness; the face is sensitive; the eyes drop, seldom
meeting yours squarely; when they do, they are the mild eyes of the Church! I suppose the
early experiences of the Church help him.

His attitude toward Colonel Harvey's and other of the President's diplomatic appointments takes
its color from his good father's attitude toward the problem of evil. God put evil in the
world, and it is not for man to question.

The President sends the Harveys abroad; they are not Mr. Hughes', but his own personal representatives.
It is not for Mr. Hughes to question.

He grows a better Republican every day. And the Republicans of the Senate are not reconciled.
They feel like the man who saw the hippopotamus: If he should stay
to tea, I thought, There won't be much for us.

There won't be much for them.

Enthusiasm grows among them over his admirable fitness for reinterment
on the Supreme Bench.

EDWARD M. HOUSE The nature of Colonel Edward M. House was fully revealed
by a story of his youth, which he told me at Paris in the concluding
moments of the Peace Conference.

He was elated and confident. The compromises in which he delighted had been made. The gifts had
all been bestowed-- of territory which men will have to fight for to keep, of reparations which
will never be paid, of alliances which will never be carried out, of a League of Nations which the
Colonel's own Nation will never enter. Looking the work over with that blindness with which men
are struck who are under the dominion of another and stronger man's mind, his gentle soul was flooded
with happiness.

He was as near boasting as one of his modest habits could be, as his mind turned to the wisdom
of his youth which had brought forth this excellent fruit." I got my first real sight of politics,
"he said," when I was a boy in Cornell University. My great chum there was young Morton, a son
of the Republican war governor of Indiana.

The Hayes-Tilden contest over the Presidency was being decided. Morton and I used to run away
from Ithaca to Washington during that absorbing fight. By reason of his father's position in the Democratic
party, he could get in behind the scenes as few young men could;
and he took me with him.

I saw the whole amazing thing. I made up my mind then and there that only three or four men in
this country counted, and that there was little chance of rising to be one of those three or four
by the ordinary methods. "He was, when he said this, at the apex of his career, behind the scenes
of the greatest World Congress ever held, following the greatest War the world had ever known.
And he had been behind the scenes as had no other man, in Europe
as a privileged onlooker with both belligerents, and in America as
the confidant of tremendous events.

He was there, as in his college days, at the Hayes-Tilden contest, by grace of a friend whose influence
had been sufficient to secure him his opportunities. The parallel was in his mind, and he regarded
it with self-approval. He had chosen his course and chosen it wisely. It had led him to the greatest
peace-making in history.

There was a little more self-revelation. He and Morton had prepared
for college with Yale in view. But Morton had flunked his entrance
examinations at Yale and afterward succeeded in passing the Cornell
tests.

House had gone to Cornell to be with his friend, an early indication of a capacity for self-effacement,
for attachment to the nearest great man at hand who could take him
behind the scenes.

The mystery of Colonel House is that he has been possessed all his life, almost passionately, with
that instinct which makes boys run to fires. His fastening upon the favorably placed, whether
it was Morton in his youth, or Wilson in his maturity, was not ordinary self-seeking, not having for
its object riches or power or influence. It was merely desire to see for the pure love of seeing.
His is a boundless curiosity about both men and events.

His eyes are the clue to his character. Boardman Robinson, with the caricaturist's gift for catching
that feature which exhibits character, said to me one day during the War," I just passed Colonel House
on the street. The most wonderful seeing eyes I ever saw! "Nature had made Colonel House all eyes--
trivial in figure, undistinguished, slightly ludicrous, almost shambling,
shrinking under observation so that he gained a reputation for mystery,
with only one feature to catch your attention, a most amazingly fine
pair of eyes.

It
was as if nature had concentrated on those eyes, treating all the puny rest of him with careless indifference.
They are eyes that delight in seeing, eyes to seek a place in the first row of the grand stand
of world events, eyes that turn steadily outward upon objective reality.
Not the eyes of a visionary-- House got his visions of the brotherhood
of man and the rest of it at second-hand from Wilson-- eyes that glow
not with the internal fires of a great soul, but with the intoxication
of the spectacle.

And with the eyes nature had given House an unerring instinct for
getting where, with his small figure, he could see.

The ego of the passionate spectator is as peculiar as that of the book collector or the curiosity hunter.
Given a shoulder tall enough the diminutive House perches upon it, like
a small boy watching a circus parade from his father's broad back,
whether the shoulder be Morton's in his youth, or Wilson's in his
maturity.

Some have tried to explain House by saying that he had the vanity of loving familiarity with the great;
but I doubt if House cared for kings, as kings, any more than a bibliomaniac cares for jade.
He wanted to see; and kings were merely tall objects on which to perch and regard the spectacle.
He remained simple and unaffected by his contacts with Europe, did none of the vulgar aping
of the toady, coming away from the Peace Conference an unconscious provincial, who said" Eye-talian
"in the comic-paper way, and Fiume pronouncing the first syllable
as if he were exclaiming"

Fie! for shame! "-- an unspoiled Texan who must have cared as little what kings and potentates
thought of him as a newsboy watching a baseball game cares for the accidental company of a bank president.
The world has been good to Colonel House, according to his standards. He has realized his ambition
to the fullest. Life has given him all he wanted, the privilege of seeing, more abundantly than
to any other in his generation, perhaps in all time; for he is history's
greatest spectator.

He is glad. His heart is full. He wishes to give in return. He is
the kindest-hearted man who has ever had empires at his disposal. He
wants to give, give, give. He wants to make happy.

He was the fairy godmother of Europe, the diplomatic Carnegie, who
thought it a disgrace to die diplomatically rich.

For
many months I saw him almost daily at Paris. His was a heart of gold, whether in personal or international
relations; but a heart of gold does not make a great negotiator. Perverse and nationalistic races
of men, incredulous of the millenium, keep their hearts of gold at home when they go out to deal
with their neighbors. It was difficult for Colonel House to say no. He might go so far as to utter
the first letter of that indispensable monosyllable; but before he
accomplished the vowel, his mind would turn to some happy" formula
"passing midway between no and yes.

He
was fertile in these expedients. Daily he would talk of some new" formula, "for Fiume, for Dantzig,
for the Saar Valley, for the occupation of the Rhine, for Shantung, always happily, always hopefully.
The amiable William Allen White hit off his disposition perfectly when he
said House's daily prayer was," Give us this day our daily compromise.

"When he split a hair between the south and southwest side, it was not for logistic pleasure; it was
to divide it with splendid justice and send each of two rival claimants away happy in the possession of
exactly half of the slender filament, so that neither would be empty handed.
I never saw a man so overjoyed as he was one day late in April or
early in May when M. Clemenceau had left his rooms in the Hotel Crillon
with the promise of Franco-American defensive alliance."

The old man, "he said," is very happy. He has got what he has been after. I can't tell you just
now what it is. But he has got it at last. "He had been the donor, for Mr. Wilson, of the exact southwest side
of a hair, the promise to submit, without recommendations, an alliance to the United States Senate,
which had little prospect of ever being accepted by this country.

The sight of the French Premier's happiness made him radiant. It was not merely because representatives
of foreign governments found Colonel House easy to see when they could
not gain access to President Wilson that kept a throng running to
his quarters in the Crillon; it was because there they found the line
of least resistance. There was the readiest sympathy. There was the greatest
desire to accommodate. He sought always for a formula that would satisfy
the claims of all. A man so ready to compromise is actuated by no
guiding principle. Mr. Scott, the editor of the" Manchester Guardian
", said when President Wilson was in England;"

Yes, Lloyd George is honestly for the League
of Nations. But that won't prevent him from doing things at Paris
which will be utterly inconsistent with the principle of such a league.
It isn't intellectual dishonesty; but Lloyd George hasn't a logical
mind. He doesn't understand the implications of his own position.
"Neither did Colonel House at Paris. The League of Nations was an
emotion with him, not a principle. It was a tremendous emotion. He spoke of
it in a voice that almost broke.

I remember his glowing eyes and the little catch
in his throat as he said, at Paris," The politicians don't like the
League of Nations.

And if they really knew what it would
do to them, they would like it still less. "But, for all that naive faith
in the wonders it would do, Colonel House had not thought out the League
of Nations, and was quite incapable of thinking it out, for he is
not a man of analytical mind; and what mental power he had was inhibited
by the glow of his feelings.

His temperature was
above the thinking point. Thus, like Mr. Lloyd George, he could make
compromises that played ducks and drakes with his general position,
since he had no real understanding of the League, which was not an intellectual
conviction with him, arduously arrived at, but which possessed his soul
as by an act of grace, like an old-fashioned religious conversion.
He was loyal at heart to Mr. Wilson and to everything that was Mr.
Wilson's, his mind being absorbed into Mr. Wilson's, and having no
independent existence.  "It cannot be egotism", he reasonably observes, "that prompts a man to speak
of himself in connection with Newgate."

"Whoever will undergo the pain," says Mr. Wakefield, "of witnessing the public destruction
of a fellow-creature's life, in London, must be perfectly satisfied that in the great mass
of spectators, the effect of the punishment is to excite sympathy for the criminal and hatred
of the law. . . I am inclined to believe that the criminals of London, spoken of as a class
and allowing for exceptions, take the same sort of delight in witnessing executions, as the
sportsman and soldier find in the dangers of hunting and war. . . I am confident that few Old
Bailey Sessions pass without the trial of a boy, whose first thought of crime occurred whilst
he was witnessing an execution. . . And one grown man, of great mental powers and superior
education, who was acquitted of a charge of forgery, assured me that the first idea of committing
a forgery occurred to him at the moment when he was accidentally witnessing the execution of
Fauntleroy.  To which it may be added, that Fauntleroy is said to have made precisely the same
declaration in reference to the origin of his own criminality.

But one convict "who was within an ace of being hanged", among the many with whom Mr. Wakefield
conversed, seems to me to have unconsciously put a question which the advocates of Capital
Punishment would find it very difficult indeed to answer.  "Have you often seen an execution?"
asked Mr. Wakefield.  "Yes, often."  "Did it not frighten you?"  "No.  Why should it?"

It is very easy and very natural to turn from this ruffian, shocked by the hardened retort;
but answer his question, why should it? Should he be frightened by the sight of a dead man?
We are born to die, he says, with a careless triumph.  We are not born to the treadmill, or
to servitude and slavery, or to banishment; but the executioner has done no more for that criminal
than nature may do tomorrow for the judge, and will certainly do, in her own good time, for
judge and jury, counsel and witnesses, turnkeys, hangman, and all.  Should he be frightened
by the manner of the death?  It is horrible, truly, so horrible, that the law, afraid or ashamed
of its own deed, hides the face of the struggling wretch it slays; but does this fact naturally
awaken in such a man, terror--or defiance?  Let the same man speak.  "What did you think then?"
asked Mr. Wakefield. "Think?  Why, I thought it was a--shame."

Disgust and indignation, or recklessness and indifference, or a morbid tendency to brood over
the sight until temptation is engendered by it, are the inevitable consequences of the spectacle,
according to the difference of habit and disposition in those who behold it.  Why should it
frighten or deter?  We know it does not. We know it from the police reports, and from the testimony
of those who have experience of prisons and prisoners, and we may know it, on the occasion
of an execution, by the evidence of our own senses; if we will be at the misery of using them
for such a purpose.  But why should it?  Who would send his child or his apprentice, or what
tutor would send his scholars, or what master would send his servants, to be deterred from
vice by the spectacle of an execution? If it be an example to criminals, and to criminals only,
why are not the prisoners in Newgate brought out to see the show before the debtors' door?
Why, while they are made parties to the condemned sermon, are they rigidly excluded from the
improving postscript of the gallows?  Because an execution is well known to be an utterly useless,
barbarous, and brutalising sight, and because the sympathy of all beholders, who have any sympathy
at all, is certain to be always with the criminal, and never with the law.

I learn from the newspaper accounts of every execution, how Mr. So- and-so, and Mr. Somebody
else, and Mr. So-forth shook hands with the culprit, but I never find them shaking hands with
the hangman.  All kinds of attention and consideration are lavished on the one; but the other
is universally avoided, like a pestilence.  I want to know why so much sympathy is expended
on the man who kills another in the vehemence of his own bad passions, and why the man who
kills him in the name of the law is shunned and fled from?  Is it because the murderer is going
to die?  Then by no means put him to death.  Is it because the hangman executes a law, which,
when they once come near it face to face, all men instinctively revolt from?  Then by all means
change it.  There is, there can be, no prevention in such a law.

It may be urged that Public Executions are not intended for the benefit of those dregs of society
who habitually attend them.  This is an absurdity, to which the obvious answer is, So much
the worse. If they be not considered with reference to that class of persons, comprehending
a great host of criminals in various stages of development, they ought to be, and must be.
To lose sight of that consideration is to be irrational, unjust, and cruel.  All other punishments
are especially devised, with a reference to the rooted habits, propensities, and antipathies
of criminals.  And shall it be said, out of Bedlam, that this last punishment of all is alone
to be made an exception from the rule, even where it is shown to be a means of propagating
vice and crime?

But there may be people who do not attend executions, to whom the general fame and rumour of
such scenes is an example, and a means of deterring from crime.

Who are they?  We have seen that around Capital Punishment there lingers a fascination, urging
weak and bad people towards it, and imparting an interest to details connected with it, and
with malefactors awaiting it or suffering it, which even good and well- disposed people cannot
withstand.  We know that last-dying speeches and Newgate calendars are the favourite literature
of very low intellects.  The gallows is not appealed to as an example in the instruction of
youth (unless they are training for it); nor are there condensed accounts of celebrated executions
for the use of national schools.  There is a story in an old spelling-book of a certain Don't
Care who was hanged at last, but it is not understood to have had any remarkable effect on
crimes or executions in the generation to which it belonged, and with which it has passed away.
Hogarth's idle apprentice is hanged; but the whole scene--with the unmistakable stout lady,
drunk and pious, in the cast; the quarrelling, blasphemy, lewdness, and uproar; Tiddy Doll
vending his gingerbread, and the boys picking his pocket--is a bitter satire on the great example;
as efficient then, as now.

Is it efficient to prevent crime?  The parliamentary returns demonstrate that it is not.  I
was engaged in making some extracts from these documents, when I found them so well abstracted
in one of the papers published by the committee on this subject established at Aylesbury last
year, by the humane exertions of Lord Nugent, that I am glad to quote the general results from
its pages:

"In 1843 a return was laid on the table of the House of the commitments and executions for
murder in England and Wales during the thirty years ending with December 1842, divided into
five periods of six years each.  It shows that in the last six years, from 1836 to 1842, during
which there were only 50 executions, the commitments for murder were fewer by 61 than in the
six years preceding with 74 executions; fewer by 63 than in the six years ending 1830 with
75 executions; fewer by 56 than in the six years ending 1824 with 94 executions; and fewer
by 93 than in the six years ending 1818 when there was no less a number of executions than
122.  But it may be said, perhaps, that in the inference we draw from this return, we are substituting
cause for effect, and that in each successive cycle, the number of murders decreased in consequence
of the example of public executions in the cycle immediately preceding, and that it was for
that reason there were fewer commitments.  This might be said with some colour of truth, if
the example had been taken from two successive cycles only.  But when the comparative examples
adduced are of no less than five successive cycles, and the result gradually and constantly
progressive in the same direction, the relation of facts to each other is determined beyond
all ground for dispute, namely, that the number of these crimes has diminished in consequence
of the diminution of the number of executions.  More especially when it is also remembered
that it was immediately after the first of these cycles of five years, when there had been
the greatest number of executions and the greatest number of murders, that the greatest number
of persons were suddenly cast loose upon the country, without employ, by the reduction of the
Army and Navy; that then came periods of great distress and great disturbance in the agricultural
and manufacturing districts; and above all, that it was during the subsequent cycles that the
most important mitigations were effected in the law, and that the Punishment of Death was taken
away not only for crimes of stealth, such as cattle and horse stealing and forgery, of which
crimes corresponding statistics show likewise a corresponding decrease, but for the crimes
of violence too, tending to murder, such as are many of the incendiary offences, and such as
are highway robbery and burglary.  But another return, laid before the House at the same time,
bears upon our argument, if possible, still more conclusively.  In table 11 we have only the
years which have occurred since 1810, in which all persons convicted of murder suffered death;
and, compared with these an equal number of years in which the smallest proportion of persons
convicted were executed. In the first case there were 66 persons convicted, all of whom underwent
the penalty of death; in the second 83 were convicted, of whom 31 only were executed.  Now
see how these two very different methods of dealing with the crime of murder affected the commission
of it in the years immediately following.  The number of commitments for murder, in the four
years immediately following those in which all persons convicted were executed, was 270.

"In the four years immediately following those in which little more than one-third of the persons
convicted were executed, there were but 222, being 48 less.  If we compare the commitments
in the following years with those in the first years, we shall find that, immediately after
the examples of unsparing execution, the crime increased nearly 13 per cent., and that after
commutation was the practice and capital punishment the exception, it decreased 17 per cent.

"In the same parliamentary return is an account of the commitments and executions in London
and Middlesex, spread over a space of 32 years, ending in 1842, divided into two cycles of
16 years each.  In the first of these, 34 persons were convicted of murder, all of whom were
executed.  In the second, 27 were convicted, and only 17 executed.  The commitments for murder
during the latter long period, with 17 executions, were more than one half fewer than they
had been in the former long period with exactly double the number of executions.  This appears
to us to be as conclusive upon our argument as any statistical illustration can be upon any
argument professing to place successive events in the relation of cause and effect to each
other.  How justly then is it said in that able and useful periodical work, now in the course
of publication at Glasgow, under the name of the Magazine of Popular Information on Capital
and Secondary Punishment, 'the greater the number of executions, the greater the number of
murders; the smaller the number of executions, the smaller the number of murders. The world had
accepted him. Fate had led him far from those paths of defeat and obscurity into which his sensitiveness
and shyness had turned him as a youth.

He was elated and confident. He looked marvelously fresh and young, his color warm and youthful,
his eye alive with pleasure.

He talked long and well, answered questions freely, told stories of his associates at the peace
table, especially of one who never read the memoranda his secretaries prepared, who was so deaf that
he could not hear a word spoken in conference and who spoke so loudly that no one could interrupt him.
"What could one do," Mr. Wilson asked, "to penetrate a mind like that?" M. Clemenceau, who unlike
this other commissioner, had eyes and saw not, had ears and neither would he hear, had said
to him once, in response to a firm negative, "You have a heart of steel!" "I felt like replying
to him," flashed Mr. Wilson, "I have not the heart to steal!"

So well poised, so sure of himself he felt that he could do an extraordinary thing. He could
laugh off a mistake. Robuster natures accept mistakes as a child accepts tumbles. Mistakes
for Mr. Wilson were ordinarily crises for his arrogancy.

You may judge, then, how confident he was at that supreme moment.

He could brush aside a great mistake lightly. Someone asked him, "What about the freedom of
the seas?"

"The freedom of the seas!" he answered, "I must tell you about that. It's a great joke on me.
I left America thinking the freedom of the seas the most important issue of the Peace Conference.
When I got here I found there was no such issue.

You see the freedom of the seas concerns neutrals in time of war.

But when we have the League of Nations there will be no neutrals in time of war. So, of course,
there will be no question of the freedom of the seas. I hadn't thought
the thing out clearly."

From
that moment the decline began. Mr. Wilson had unwisely chosen to have his victory first and his
defeats afterward, always bad generalship.

Compromise followed compromise, each one destructive. The fourteen points were impaired until
Mr. Wilson hated to be reminded of them by Lloyd George, in the case of Dantzig and the Polish
corridor. The dawn of a better world grew dubious. The ardor of mankind cooled. They were at first
incredulous, then skeptical.

The President saw only slowly the consequences of that chaffering to which Mr. Lloyd George
and M. Clemenceau led him. He was a poor merchant. He dealt in morals and could cast up no daily
balance. He was busy with details for which his mind had no sufficient curiosity or energy.
Mr. Keynes, in his remarkable description of Mr. Wilson making peace,
says that his mind was slow.

Doubtless it was slow in political trading about the council table, just as a philosopher may
be slow in the small talk of a five o'clock tea.

Mr. Wilson was out of his element in the conference; Mr. Lloyd George
and M. Clemenceau were in theirs.

Gradually the conviction entered Mr. Wilson's soul that what was being destroyed at Paris was
Mr. Wilson. The figure of Senator Lodge began to rise across the Atlantic, malevolent and
evil, the Lodge against whom he had wanted to appeal to the American
people.

The strain was telling upon him. He had to sit beside his destroyers with that smiling amiability
which Mr. Lansing records in his book. He had to deal with men on a basis of equality, a thing
which he had run away from doing in his youth, which all his life had made too great demands upon his
sensitive, arrogant nature.

One whose duty it was to see him every night after the meetings of the Big Three reports that
he found him with the left side of his face twitching. To collect his memory he would pass
his hand several times wearily over his brow. The arduousness of the labor was not great enough
to account for this. M. Clemenceau at nearly eighty stood the strain and an assassin's bullet
as well. Mr. Lloyd George thrived on what he did. But the issue was not personal with them.
Neither was assisting, with difficult amiability, at his own destruction. The time came when
he might have had back some of the ground he had given. Mr. Lloyd George offered it to him. He
would not have it. What it was proposed to amend was not so much the peace treaty as Mr. Wilson
himself, and he could not admit that he needed amendment.

The issue had become personal and Mr. Lodge, upon Mr. Wilson's return, with malevolent understanding,
kept it personal. The Republicans made their fight in the one way that made yielding by the President
impossible. They made it nominally on the League but really on Mr. Wilson. The President might
have compromised on the League, but he could not compromise on Mr. Wilson. Of such involvement
in self there could be only one end.

Like a poet of one poem, Mr. Wilson is a statesman of one vision, an inspiring vision, but one
which his own weakness kept him from realizing. His domestic achievements are not remarkable,
his administration being one in which movements came to a head rather than one in which much
was initiated.

He might have cut the war short by two years and saved the world much havoc, if he had begun
to fight when the Lusitania was sunk. Once in the war he saw his country small and himself large;
he did not conceive of the nation as winning the war by sending millions of men to France;
he saw himself as winning the war by talking across the Atlantic. At the Peace Conference he
did not conceive of his country's winning the peace by the powerful position in which victory
had left it; he saw himself as winning the peace by the hold he personally had upon the peoples
of Europe. Like Napoleon, of whom Marshal Foch wrote recently, "Il oublia qu'un homme ne peut
etre Dieu; qu'au-dessus de l'individu, il y a la nation," he forgot that man can not be God;
that over and above the individual there is the nation.

In politics he knew at first better than any other, again to quote Foch, that "above men is
morality." This knowledge brought him many victories. But at critical junctures, as in his
1918 appeal to the voters and in the treaty fight, he forgot that morality was above one man,
himself. He excelled in appeals to the heart and conscience of the nation, a gift Mr. Harding has
not; the lesser arts of the politician, tact and skill in the handling and selecting of men,
were lacking.

He forgot in his greatness and aloofness the national passion for equality; which a more brilliant
politician, Mr. Roosevelt, appeased by acting as the people's court
jester, and which a shrewder politician, Mr. Harding, guards against
by reminding the country that he is "just folks"; and in the end the
masses turned upon him, like a Roman mob on a defeated gladiator.

GEORGE HARVEY There is something inscrutably ludicrous in the anxiety,
bordering upon consternation, that lurks in the elongated and grotesque
shadow that George Harvey casts upon Washington.

The Republican fathers, who now feel a sense of responsibility, after a lapse of many years, for
the future of party and country, do not yet know how to take him. As a campaign asset his value could be
expressed in intelligible terms. But as a party liability, or asset,-- many a good Republican wishes he knew
which,-- he remains an enigma.

There is not one of the array of elders of either political persuasion who, while laughing at his
satirical sword-play, does not watch him covertly out of the corner
of the eye, trembling at the potential ruin they consider him capable
of accomplishing.

With all his weaknesses,-- principally an almost hilarious political irregularity,-- but two
Republican hands were raised against him in the Senate when he was nominated for the Court of
Saint James.

When he rather unbecomingly filliped John Bull on the nose in his maiden speech as the premier ambassador,
incidentally ridiculing some of his own countrymen's war ideals, President Harding and Secretary
Hughes, gravely and with rather obvious emphasis, tried to set the matter aright as best they
could. But there was no hint of reprimand; only a fervent hope that the mercurial Harvey would
remain quiescent until the memory of the episode passed. The quondam
editor, now the representative of his country on the Supreme Council,
in which capacity he is even more important than as Ambassador, represents
a new strain in American politics.

His mental habits bewilder the President, shock the proper and somewhat conventional Secretary
of State, and throw such repositories of national divinity as Senators
Lodge and Knox into utter confusion.

Harvey plays the game of politics according to his own rules, the underlying principle of which is
audacity. He knows very well that the weak spot in the armor of nearly all politicians of the
old school is their assumption of superiority, a sort of mask of benignant political venerability.
They dread satire. They shrink from ridicule. A well-directed critical outburst freezes them.
Such has been the Harvey method of approach.

Having reduced his subjects to a state of terror, he flatters them, cajoles them, and finally makes
terms with them; but he always remains a more or less unstable and uncertain quantity, potentially
explosive. There is not much of the present Harvey to be gleaned from his earlier experiences, except
the pertinacity that has had much to do with his irregular climb up the ladder. He was born in
Peacham, Vermont, where as a boy after school hours he mounted a stool in his father's general
store and kept books. At the end of the year his accounts were short a penny. Because of this
he received no Christmas gift not, as he has said, because his father
begrudged the copper more than any other Vermont storekeeper, but
because he was meticulously careful himself and expected the younger
generation to be likewise.

This experience must have been etched upon Harvey's memory; no one can be more meticulous when
his interest is aroused. To money he is indifferent, but a misplaced word makes him shudder. Writing
with him is an exhausting process, which probably accounts for the fact that his literary output
has been small. But the same power of analysis and attention to detail have been most effective
in his political activities. In these his divination has been prophetic and in his manipulation of
contending elements he shows a dexterity that has baffled even the professional politicians. Harvey
began his journalistic career upon the Peacham Patriot.

Thence, with a borrowed ten dollar bill, he went to Springfield, serving his apprenticeship on
the Republican, the best school of journalism in the country at that time. Later, on the Chicago
Evening News, on the staff of which were Victor Lawson, Eugene Field, and Melville Stone, he completed his
training. When he joined the staff of the New York World at the age of twenty-one he was a competent,
if not a brilliant newspaper man. His first important billet was the New Jersey editorship.
This assignment across the river might very easily have been the
first step toward a journalistic sepulcher, but not for Harvey.

He made use of the post to garner an experience and knowledge of New Jersey politics that were to have
an important bearing upon the career of Woodrow Wilson later. At the same time he attracted the attention
of Joseph Pulitzer who appointed him managing editor of the World before he was thirty. While
directing the World's policy during the second Cleveland campaign,
Harvey met Thomas F. Ryan and William C. Whitney, the financial backers
of the Democratic party.

This prepared the way for his step from Park Row to Wall Street after his break with Pulitzer.
But the ways of Wall Street were not for Harvey. Nevertheless he was cautious enough to help
himself to some of the profits that were forthcoming in those days of great amalgamations. With commendable
foresight, however much he might have despised the methods then prevalent in the fields of high
finance, he acquired enough to make him independent, to follow his own bent, and strangely enough,
in the acquiring he came to the conclusion that the Republic could not survive if the plundering
of the people by the "interests" continued as it was proceeding at
that time.

He withdrew from the Street and eventually purchased The North American Review. In the meantime
J. P. Morgan and Company had underwritten the bonds of the Harper publishing house and the
elder Morgan asked Harvey to take charge of the institution.

This he agreed to do with the understanding that he should be permitted to direct the policy
of Harper's Weekly, one of the assets of the firm, without interference from the bankers.
With his peculiar faculty for detecting the weaknesses of financiers and politicians, Harvey
now had before him an opportunity which was not afforded by the sedate
old North American Review and he promptly took advantage of it. He
had seen enough of the union of finance and politics to place little
faith in either of the old parties. One was corrupt and powerful; the other
was weak and parasitical.

In both organizations money was a compelling consideration. Not being accustomed to think in terms
of party allegiance Harvey decided that the only remedy for a very bad situation was a militant
Democracy. He had the organ; next he needed the leader. About this time, quite accidentally, he was present
at Woodrow Wilson's inauguration as president of Princeton University. The professor appealed to the
editor,-- why, one can only conjecture.

Perhaps it was a common abhorrence of machine politics, a passion for phrase turning, for there
is a similarity in the methods of the two which separates them from the rank and file of ordinary
politicians. Harvey scrutinized Wilson more carefully, making a political diagnosis by a careful
examination of his works, and decided that he was the man to turn the trick. But the gap between
the presidency of Princeton and the Presidency of the United States
was too wide to be taken at one leap.

Harvey concluded that the governorship of New Jersey must be the intermediate step. The Democratic
year of 1910 provided the opportunity. The New Jersey politicians did not care about the college professor. They
had already chosen a candidate, but Harvey induced them to change
their minds.

How this was accomplished is an absorbing political tale, too long to be narrated here. The New Jersey
political leaders of that period will tell you that if Mr. Wilson's "forward-looking" men had
controlled the convention he never would have been nominated. They will also tell you how Joseph
Patrick Tumulty opposed the nomination. They will even whisper that the contests were settled rather
rapidly that memorable evening. After the nomination was announced, Mr. Wilson's managers escorted him to the
convention hall where he addressed a group of delegates who were
none too enthusiastic.

As they motored back to the hotel Mr. Wilson is reported to have asked: "By the way, gentleman, what
was my majority?" To which Mr. Nugent replied cryptically: "It was enough." The question,
at least in the presence of these gentlemen, it is said was never
asked again.

Much has been said about the break between Mr. Harvey and Mr. Wilson. The published correspondence gives
a fairly accurate picture of what happened at the Manhattan Club on the morning of the parting. I
do not believe that Mr. Wilson dropped Colonel Harvey because he feared he was under Wall Street
influence. The Harvey version sounds more plausible. According to
this the erstwhile university professor had learned the technique
of political strategy.

He no longer felt that he was in need of guidance. "I was not surprised at the excuse he gave a little
later when the break came," said Harvey. "I would not have been surprised at any excuse he
offered." Mr. Harvey retired from the campaign. Harper's Weekly had been wrecked, whether or not by
the espousal of the Wilson cause, and he sold
it to Norman Hapgood who buried it in due course. George Harvey
might or might not have had visions of an appointment to the Court
of St. James at that time.

It is at least
certain that his disappointment was keen, taking a form of vindictiveness
which will survive as a distinct blot upon his career.

In the preconvention campaign
he aligned himself with the Champ Clark forces, but it was too late
to undo the work he had done.

This
episode is necessary to an understanding of what happened later. His
transfer from the Democratic to the Republican party was a characteristically
bold move. How genuine his later allegiance may be is a question which
more than one Republican would like to have answered, but there is no
doubt of the success of his coup. He is, at least where he wanted to be, occupying
the post which he considers, in point of importance, next to the presidency
itself, Mr. Hughes notwithstanding.

When
the United States entered the war Harvey found himself in the secluded
position of editor of the North American Review. This did not suit
his disposition at all and he was very unhappy.

He was too old to fight and it was not likely that he
would be invited to Washington. In the meantime stories of mismanagement
in the conduct of the war began to trickle out of the capital in devious
undercurrents. The press, in a passive spirit of patriotism, was silent.
Here was the opportunity. In January, 1918, the first edition of the "North American
Review War Weekly" appeared. Its editor announced that its purpose
was to help win the war by telling the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth. He defied the Creels, the Daniels, and the Burlesons,
adopting the motto, "To hell with the censors and bureaucrats."

The journal was an instant success. Not only was
it read with avidity but the Washington politicians were flabbergasted
at the audacity of a man who dared to print what the press associations and
the dailies would not touch. I do not think there can be any doubt
of the genuineness of Harvey's motives at this time. His journal was
rigidly non-partisan. He spared no one whom he considered as an encumbrance
in the winning of the war. The most striking evidence of his attitude
toward the Republican party at this time is found in the edition
of the "Weekly" of March 9, 1918.  In Bombay, during the Recordership of Sir James
Macintosh, there were fewer crimes in seven years without one execution, than in the preceding
seven years with forty-seven executions; notwithstanding that in the seven years without capital
punishment, the population had greatly increased, and there had been a large accession to the
numbers of the ignorant and licentious soldiery, with whom the more violent offences originated.
During the four wickedest years of the Bank of England (from 1814 to 1817, inclusive), when
the one-pound note capital prosecutions were most numerous and shocking, the number of forged
one-pound notes discovered by the Bank steadily increased, from the gross amount in the first
year of 10,342 pounds, to the gross amount in the last of 28,412 pounds.  But in every branch
of this part of the subject--the inefficiency of capital punishment to prevent crime, and its
efficiency to produce it--the body of evidence (if there were space to quote or analyse it
here) is overpowering and resistless.

I have purposely deferred until now any reference to one objection which is urged against the
abolition of capital punishment:  I mean that objection which claims to rest on Scriptural
authority.

It was excellently well said by Lord Melbourne, that no class of persons can be shown to be
very miserable and oppressed, but some supporters of things as they are will immediately rise
up and assert--not that those persons are moderately well to do, or that their lot in life
has a reasonably bright side--but that they are, of all sorts and conditions of men, the happiest.
In like manner, when a certain proceeding or institution is shown to be very wrong indeed,
there is a class of people who rush to the fountainhead at once, and will have no less an authority
for it than the Bible, on any terms.

So, we have the Bible appealed to in behalf of Capital Punishment. So, we have the Bible produced
as a distinct authority for Slavery. So, American representatives find the title of their country
to the Oregon territory distinctly laid down in the Book of Genesis.  So, in course of time,
we shall find Repudiation, perhaps, expressly commanded in the Sacred Writings.

It is enough for me to be satisfied, on calm inquiry and with reason, that an Institution or
Custom is wrong and bad; and thence to feel assured that IT CANNOT BE a part of the law laid
down by the Divinity who walked the earth.  Though every other man who wields a pen should
turn himself into a commentator on the Scriptures--not all their united efforts, pursued through
our united lives, could ever persuade me that Slavery is a Christian law; nor, with one of
these objections to an execution in my certain knowledge, that Executions are a Christian law,
my will is not concerned.  I could not, in my veneration for the life and lessons of Our Lord,
believe it.  If any text appeared to justify the claim, I would reject that limited appeal,
and rest upon the character of the Redeemer, and the great scheme of His Religion, where, in
its broad spirit, made so plain--and not this or that disputed letter--we all put our trust.
But, happily, such doubts do not exist.  The case is far too plain.  We know that the law of
Moses was delivered to certain wandering tribes in a peculiar and perfectly different social
condition from that which prevails among us at this time.  We know that the Christian Dispensation
did distinctly repeal and annul certain portions of that law.  We know that the doctrine of
retributive justice or vengeance, was plainly disavowed by the Saviour.  We know that on the
only occasion of an offender, liable by the law to death, being brought before Him for His
judgment, it was not death.  We know that He said, "Thou shalt not kill".  And if we are still
to inflict capital punishment because of the Mosaic law (under which it was not the consequence
of a legal proceeding, but an act of vengeance from the next of kin, which would surely be
discouraged by our later laws if it were revived among the Jews just now) it would be equally
reasonable to establish the lawfulness of a plurality of wives on the same authority.

Here I will leave this aspect of the question.  I should not have treated of it at all in the
columns of a newspaper, but for the possibility of being unjustly supposed to have given it
no consideration in my own mind.

In bringing to a close these letters on a subject, in connection with which there is happily
very little that is new to be said or written, I beg to be understood as advocating the total
abolition of the Punishment of Death, as a general principle, for the advantage of society,
for the prevention of crime, and without the least reference to, or tenderness for any individual
malefactor whomsoever.  Indeed, in most cases of murder, my feeling towards the culprit is
very strongly and violently the reverse.  I am the more desirous to be so understood, after
reading a speech made by Mr. Macaulay in the House of Commons last Tuesday night, in which
that accomplished gentleman hardly seemed to recognise the possibility of anybody entertaining
an honest conviction of the inutility and bad effects of Capital Punishment in the abstract,
founded on inquiry and reflection, without being the victim of "a kind of effeminate feeling". At
one of the most critical periods Senator Borah appealed to Senator Knox to wrest the leadership
from the Massachusetts Senator, with intimations that he would have the support of the "bitter
enders" at the forthcoming convention at Chicago. Mr. Knox does not love Mr. Lodge but he refused
to consider the proposal. He was indifferent. His last great political
opportunity went glimmering.

As
I have said Mr. Knox can be very charming but I doubt that he sincerely admires any of the public
men with whom he has been associated, or can call any of them, from the purely personal viewpoint,
his friends, with the possible exception of Andrew Mellon, whom he caused to be appointed Secretary
of the Treasury. Of course, he likes many of his colleagues, after a fashion, especially those
who admire him, but that is another matter.

The intimacy usually implied in the term friendship does not enter
into such relations.

For some of the more important men he has known, he has shown a very distinct dislike. It is
said of him that he thought President Harding overlooked a real opportunity when he failed to
invite him to become Secretary of State, but his disappointment was
somewhat mollified by the fact that Mr. Root was not asked to take
the post.

Mr. Knox prefers to look upon Mr. Root as a lucky lawyer who has taken to himself much of the
credit of John Hay's great work. He shows an even less regard for Mr. Lodge's talents. And
he is doubtful of Mr. Hughes.

His attitude towards the Secretary of State dates back to the insurance scandals. At that time
Mr. Frick asked Mr. Knox to make an investigation and suggest a course of action to avert a
national disaster. This Mr. Knox did in his thorough and painstaking way. A little later, when
Mr. Hughes was appointed to make a public inquiry, the Knox report
was laid before him, and according to the author of it, he followed
precisely the lines therein indicated creating for himself a national
reputation and laying the foundation of a public career.

Credit was not given Mr. Knox. It has been suggested that the incident might have been an illustration
of two great minds seeking the same channel. Mr. Knox does not think
so.

In spite of his disappointments and failures, the dignified little Senator from Pennsylvania
who has been so many times on the verge of greatness, seems to think that he could have done
just a little better than any of those who have achieved it, had circumstance given him the
opportunity. Perhaps he might. It is a compliment that few men merit
to be called merely indifferent.

ROBERT
LANSING He who believes in luck should study the career of Robert
Lansing.

Mr. Lansing probably thinks that the goddess of chance played him a scurvy trick, after having
admitted him to the Olympian heights, to break him as suddenly as she made him. Robert Lansing's real misfortune
was not knowing how to play his luck.

It is curious the fear men have of death. The former Secretary of State's only hope of immortality
was to commit political suicide, and he lacked the courage or the vision to fall upon his sword. When
Woodrow Wilson was elected President for the first time he appointed
Mr. Bryan Secretary of State.

The opinion Mr. Wilson entertained of Mr. Bryan we all know. Mr. Wilson was not given to letting his thoughts
run wild, but on one occasion, with pen in hand, he permitted himself the luxury of saying what
he thought and expressed the pious hope that somebody would knock the distinguished Nebraskan into
a cocked hat and thus dispose of the perpetual candidate who was the Old Man of the Sea to the
Democratic Party. Circumstances alter cases; Mr. Wilson as a private citizen could say and
think what he pleased; as President he was compelled to make Mr.
Bryan Secretary of State.

As Mr. Bryan knew nothing of history and less of European politics and had a superb disdain of
diplomacy-- diplomacy according to the tenets of Bryanism being an unholy and immoral game in
which the foreign players were always trying to outmaneuver the virtuous and innocent American-- he
was provided with a political nurse, mentor, and guardian in the person of John Bassett Moore,
who had a long and brilliant career as an international lawyer and diplomatist. Mr. Bryan busied
himself with finding soft jobs for deserving Democrats, preaching and inculcating the virtues of grape
juice to the diplomatic corps, and concocting plans whereby the sword was to be beaten into
a typewriter and war become a lost art. Meanwhile Mr. Moore was doing the serious work of the Department.
No two men were more unlike than Mr. Bryan and Mr. Moore; Mr. Bryan a bundle of loosely tied emotions
to whom a catchy phrase or an unsound theory is more precious than
a natural law or the wisdom of the philosopher; Mr. Moore an intellect
who has subordinated his emotions, and to whom facts are as important
as mathematics to an engineer.

It was an incompatible union; it could not last. Mr. Moore became impatient of his chief's vagaries and,
about a year later, returned to the dignified quiet of Columbia University. This was early in
1914. Now for the random way in which chance weaves her skein. Mr. Moore went out of the Department
and left the office of Counselor vacant, an office, up to that time,
so little known that the public, if it gave the matter any thought,
believed its occupant was the legal adviser of the Department, while,
as a matter of fact, he is the Under Secretary, which is now the official
designation.

At this stage of his career Mr. Lansing was connected with the Department as an adviser on international
affairs and had represented the United States in many international
arbitrations.

He was known to a small and select circle of lawyers specializing in international law, but
to the public his name meant nothing. He had always been a good Democrat, although he was
married to the daughter of the late John W. Foster, who wound up a long and brilliant diplomatic
life as Secretary of State in President Harrison's Cabinet after Mr. Blaine's resignation. Mr.
Lansing had made Washington his home for many years, and when the
new Democratic Administration came into power he believed his services
to the party entitled him to recognition, and he sought the appointment
of Third Assistant Secretary of State.

The Third Assistant Secretary is the official Social Secretary of the Government. When royalty or other
distinguished persons come to this country as the guests of the nation
the Third Assistant Secretary is the Master of Ceremonies.

He has to see that all the forms are properly complied with and nothing happens to mar the
visitors'enjoyment; he sends out invitations, in the name of the State Department, to the
funerals of Ambassadors or the inauguration of the President. But for some reason Mr. Lansing's
praiseworthy ambition was defeated. Mr. Moore had knowledge, learning,
and experience, but he was denied the gift of divination.

Had
he known that a few months later a half crazed youth in an unheard of place was to be the unconscious
agent to set the whole world aflame, undoubtedly he would have put up with Mr. Bryan's curious ideas and peculiar
methods and stuck to his desk at the State Department, and Mr. Lansing would never have been heard of.
But at the turning point in Mr. Moore's career his luck deserted
him and Mr. Lansing became the beneficiary.

Mr. Lansing, who would have been satisfied with the appointment of Third Assistant Secretary of
State, a minor place in the hierarchy, was appointed by Mr. Wilson Counselor of the Department
of State. The appointment created no excitement. In March, 1914, foreign affairs had little interest
for the American people. There was Mexico, of course, and Japan; there were the usual routine
questions to form the customary work of the department; but the skies
were serene; murder, rape, and sudden death no one thought of; Lloyd's,
which will gamble on anything from the weather to an ocean tragedy,
would have written a policy at a ridiculously low premium on the maintenance
of the peace of Europe; any statesman rash enough to have predicted
war for the United States within three years would have aroused the
concern of his friends and the professional solicitude of his physician.

Apparently Mr. Lansing had tumbled into an easy and dignified post which would not unduly tax his
physical or mental strength. He could congratulate himself upon his good fortune. A few months
later the situation changed. The State Department became not only the center about which the whole
machinery of the Government revolved but on it was focused the attention of the country and
the thoughts of Europe. The Counselor of the Department was lifted out of his obscurity; despatches
to the belligerents signed "Lansing" were published in the newspapers, statements were issued by
him, he was interviewed; he received Ambassadors, and when an Ambassador visited the State Department
the nerve centers of the whole world were affected.

Again, a few months later, in June, 1915, Mr. Bryan kindly accommodated Mr. Wilson by knocking
himself into a cocked hat, and Mr. Lansing was appointed Secretary of State. Few men had risen
so rapidly. He had no reason to complain of his luck. Mr. Wilson made some extraordinary appointments--
a close observer has said he could read motives but not men-- and his appointment of Mr.
Lansing at a time of crisis would have been inexplicable were it not logical as Mr. Wilson reasoned. Mr.
Wilson did not invite as his associates his intellectual equals or
those who dared to oppose him; it was necessary that the State Department
should have a titular head, but Mr. Wilson was resolved to be his
own Secretary of State and take into his own hands the control of
foreign policy.

No great man, no man great enough to be Secretary of State when the world was in upheaval, would
have consented to that indignity; no man jealous of his own self-respect
could have remained Mr. Wilson's Secretary of State for long.

A Secretary of State or any other member of the Cabinet must of course subordinate his judgment
to that of the President, for the President is the final court of
appeal.

But Mr. Wilson went further than that; he heaped almost unparalleled
affront upon Mr. Lansing; he made the great office of Secretary of
State ridiculous, and he invested its incumbent with no greater authority
than that of a copyist. Perhaps Mr. Wilson reads men better than
his critics believed; perhaps Mr. Wilson had fully taken the measure
of Mr. Lansing and knew how far he could go.

Nature never intended Mr. Lansing to be a leader of men, to fight for a
great cause, or to engage in physical or intellectual combat. His
life has been too soft for that, and he is naturally indolent.

He is fond of, and has more than the amateur's appreciation for,
music, painting, poetry, and the classics of literature.

He has dabbled in verse, he sketches and he has written, but without brilliancy. Accident made him
a lawyer, but he was really intended to be an artist; he would have produced no masterpiece, for genius
is not in him, but he would have been happy in his work and perhaps have given inspiration to men of
greater talent. Without being a fanatic or dogmatic, he is strongly religious; religion to
him has a meaning and is not merely a convention; he has a code which he has always observed and
ideals which he has preserved; he is charitable in his judgments and has never allowed his prejudices
to influence his actions; he is, to use a word so often misapplied, a gentleman, and his motto
is Noblesse oblige. Typical of the standard he sets for himself was
the admirable restraint he showed after his abrupt dismissal from
the Cabinet.

He neither sought vindication through the newspapers, nor posed as a victim, nor soothed his feelings
by denunciations of the President; he did not make a nuisance of himself by inflicting the recital
of his grievances upon his friends or hinting darkly at revelations. He kept quiet and went
about his affairs as a gentleman should. Why, it may be asked, should a man with so many fine qualities
have cut such a sorry figure?

The answer perhaps is that he suffers from the defects of his qualities, fine as we must admit them to
be; too fine, perhaps, for a coarser world.

When a weak and somewhat easy-going man, immensely pleased with his own exalted position, has to
deal with a man of iron will, ruthless in his methods, he is necessarily at a disadvantage.
Considering Mr. Lansing's temperamental defects and the effect of his training, his failure
is no mystery. Until Mr. Lansing became Secretary of State he had never known responsibility. Practically
his entire life had been spent as a subordinate, carrying out with zeal and intelligence the tasks
assigned to him, but always in obedience to a stronger mind. Nothing more weakens character or intellect
than for a man habitually to turn to another for direction or inspiration; always to play the part
of an inferior to a mental superior. For years Mr. Lansing had been
connected with many international arbitrations which, theoretically,
was a magnificent training for a future Secretary of State, and actually
would have destroyed the creative and administrative usefulness of a much
stronger man than Robert Lansing. In the whole mummery of international
relations there is nothing more farcical than an international arbitration.

It is always preceded by great popular excitement. A ship is seized, a boundary is run a few degrees
north or south of the conventional line, something else equally trivial fires the patriotic
heart. The flag has been insulted, the offending nation is a land grabber, national honor must be vindicated.
Secretaries of State write notes, ambassadors are instructed, the press becomes rabid, speeches
are made; the public is advised to remain calm, but it is also assured
there will be no surrender.

After a few weeks the public forgets about the insult or the way in which it has been robbed; but
the responsible officials who have never allowed themselves to become excited, continue the
pleasing pastime of writing notes.

Months, sometimes years, drag on, then a new Secretary of State or a Foreign Minister, to clean
the slate, proposes that the childish business be ended by an international arbitration. More weeks, more
often months, are spent in agreeing upon the terms of reference,
and finally the dispute goes before an "impartial arbitral tribunal."

Both
sides appoint agents and secretaries, an imposing array of counsel, technical experts; and as the
counsel are always well paid they have a conscientious obligation to earn their fees. More months
are required to prepare the case, which frequently runs into many printed volumes; and the more volumes
the better pleased everybody is, as size denotes importance. The arbitrators, although they are
governed by principles of law, know what is expected of them, and they rarely disappoint. Almost invariably
their decision is a compromise, so nicely shaded that while neither side can claim victory neither
side suffers the humiliation of defeat. As by that time both nations have long forgotten the original
cause of the quarrel their people are quite content when they are
told the decision is in their favor.

As junior counsel Mr. Lansing's name appears in many international arbitrations, and it was precisely
the work for which he was fitted. If Mr. Lansing had been a man of more robust fiber, he would have
returned his portfolio to Mr. Wilson as early as 1916, for the President was writing notes
to the belligerents and did not, even as a perfunctory courtesy, consult his Secretary of State;
he made it only too patent he did not consider his advice worth asking.

Mr. Lansing was too fond of his official prominence to surrender it easily, and that is another
curious thing about the man. Somewhat vain, holding himself in much higher estimation than the world
did, few men have so thoroughly enjoyed office as he. But he remained the quiet and unassuming
gentleman he had always been; and he certainly could not have deluded himself into believing that
there was a still higher office for him to occupy.

Mr. Lansing could not screw up his courage to resign in 1916.  She complied, and became a regular and frequent contributor.  Many letters
passed between the journal and Miss Berwick, but Miss Berwick herself was never seen.

How we came gradually to establish, at the office of Household Words, that we knew all about
Miss Berwick, I have never discovered. But we settled somehow, to our complete satisfaction,
that she was governess in a family; that she went to Italy in that capacity, and returned;
and that she had long been in the same family.  We really knew nothing whatever of her, except
that she was remarkably business-like, punctual, self-reliant, and reliable:  so I suppose
we insensibly invented the rest.  For myself, my mother was not a more real personage to me,
than Miss Berwick the governess became.

This went on until December, 1854, when the Christmas number, entitled The Seven Poor Travellers,
was sent to press.  Happening to be going to dine that day with an old and dear friend, distinguished
in literature as Barry Cornwall, I took with me an early proof of that number, and remarked,
as I laid it on the drawing-room table, that it contained a very pretty poem, written by a
certain Miss Berwick.  Next day brought me the disclosure that I had so spoken of the poem
to the mother of its writer, in its writer's presence; that I had no such correspondent in
existence as Miss Berwick; and that the name had been assumed by Barry Cornwall's eldest daughter,
Miss Adelaide Anne Procter.

The anecdote I have here noted down, besides serving to explain why the parents of the late
Miss Procter have looked to me for these poor words of remembrance of their lamented child,
strikingly illustrates the honesty, independence, and quiet dignity, of the lady's character.
I had known her when she was very young; I had been honoured with her father's friendship when
I was myself a young aspirant; and she had said at home, "If I send him, in my own name, verses
that he does not honestly like, either it will be very painful to him to return them, or he
will print them for papa's sake, and not for their own.  So I have made up my mind to take
my chance fairly with the unknown volunteers."

Perhaps it requires an editor's experience of the profoundly unreasonable grounds on which
he is often urged to accept unsuitable articles--such as having been to school with the writer's
husband's brother-in-law, or having lent an alpenstock in Switzerland to the writer's wife's
nephew, when that interesting stranger had broken his own--fully to appreciate the delicacy
and the self-respect of this resolution.

Some verses by Miss Procter had been published in the Book of Beauty, ten years before she
became Miss Berwick.  With the exception of two poems in the Cornhill Magazine, two in Good
Words, and others in a little book called A Chaplet of Verses (issued in 1862 for the benefit
of a Night Refuge), her published writings first appeared in Household Words, or All the Year
Round.  The present edition contains the whole of her Legends and Lyrics, and originates in
the great favour with which they have been received by the public.

Miss Procter was born in Bedford Square, London, on the 30th of October, 1825.  Her love of
poetry was conspicuous at so early an age, that I have before me a tiny album made of small
note-paper, into which her favourite passages were copied for her by her mother's hand before
she herself could write.  It looks as if she had carried it about, as another little girl might
have carried a doll.  She soon displayed a remarkable memory, and great quickness of apprehension.
When she was quite a young child, she learned with facility several of the problems of Euclid.
As she grew older, she acquired the French, Italian, and German languages; became a clever
pianoforte player; and showed a true taste and sentiment in drawing. But, as soon as she had
completely vanquished the difficulties of any one branch of study, it was her way to lose interest
in it, and pass to another.  While her mental resources were being trained, it was not at all
suspected in her family that she had any gift of authorship, or any ambition to become a writer.
Her father had no idea of her having ever attempted to turn a rhyme, until her first little
poem saw the light in print.

When she attained to womanhood, she had read an extraordinary number of books, and throughout
her life she was always largely adding to the number.  In 1853 she went to Turin and its neighbourhood,
on a visit to her aunt, a Roman Catholic lady.  As Miss Procter had herself professed the Roman
Catholic Faith two years before, she entered with the greater ardour on the study of the Piedmontese
dialect, and the observation of the habits and manners of the peasantry.  In the former, she
soon became a proficient.  On the latter head, I extract from her familiar letters written
home to England at the time, two pleasant pieces of description.

A BETROTHAL

"We have been to a ball, of which I must give you a description. Last Tuesday we had just done
dinner at about seven, and stepped out into the balcony to look at the remains of the sunset
behind the mountains, when we heard very distinctly a band of music, which rather excited my
astonishment, as a solitary organ is the utmost that toils up here.  I went out of the room
for a few minutes, and, on my returning, Emily said, 'Oh!  That band is playing at the farmer's
near here.  The daughter is fiancee to-day, and they have a ball.'  I said, 'I wish I was going!'
'Well,' replied she, 'the farmer's wife did call to invite us.'  'Then I shall certainly go,'
I exclaimed.  I applied to Madame B., who said she would like it very much, and we had better
go, children and all. When the casting off of House became, later, in this country unmistakable,
I inquired regarding it of the friend and adviser of the President whom I have just mentioned,
and he repeated to me, forgetting that he used them before, the exact words he had said at
Paris, "The most insidious influence at the Peace Conference was
the social influence."

The most insidious influence with Colonel House was the kindness of his own heart. He had too
many friends. His view of international relations was too personal. Principles will make a man
hard, cold, and unyielding, and Colonel House had no principles, or had them only parrot-like from
Mr. Wilson. He was the human side of the President, who for those contacts which his office
demanded had found a human side necessary and accordingly annexed
the amiable Texan.

Wilson's human side had offended him, and he cut it off, accordingly to the scriptural injunction
against the offending right hand. The act was cruel, but it was just, as just as the dismissal of
Mr. Lansing; for House failed Wilson at Paris, being one of Wilson's greatest sources of weakness
there. His excessive optimism, his kindheartedness, his credulity, his lack of independence of
mind, his surrender of his imagination to a stronger imagination, his conception of politics
not as morals but as the adjustment of personal differences, left Wilson without a capable critical
adviser at the Conference.

When House talked to Wilson, it was a weaker Wilson talking to the real Wilson. Colonel House
in retirement and since the breach, is still Colonel House, kindhearted and unobtrusive. He has
seen, and he is satisfied. He has a fine and perhaps half-unconscious loyalty to the great man
from whose shoulders he surveyed the world. His is an ego that brushes itself off readily after
a fall and asks for no alms of sympathy.

He does not, like Mr. Lansing, fill five hundred octavo pages with "I told you so," and you can
not conceive of his using that form of self-justification.

I hope to see him some day playing Santa Claus in a children's Christmas celebration at a village
church!

HERBERT HOOVER One reads in the press daily of Hughes and Hoover,
or Mellen and Hoover, or Davis and Hoover, or Wallace and Hoover.

If it is a question of foreign relations, it is the Secretary of State and Hoover. If it has
to do with using our power as a creditor nation to compel the needy foreigners to buy here, in
spite of the tariff wall we are going to erect against their selling here, it is the Secretary
of the Treasury and Hoover. If strikes threaten, it is the Secretary
of Labor and Hoover. If the farmers seek more direct access to the markets,
it is the Secretary of Agriculture and Hoover.

It is always "and Hoover."

What Mr. Hughes does not know about international affairs-- and that is considerable-- Mr. Hoover
does.

What Mr. Mellen does not know about foreign finance-- and that is less-- Mr. Hoover does. What Mr.
Davis does not know about labor-- and that is everything-- Mr. Hoover does. What Mr. Wallace
does not know about farm marketing-- and that is nothing-- Mr. Hoover does. Herbert Hoover is the
most useful supplement of the administration. He possesses a variety of experiences, gained
in making money abroad, in administering the Belgian relief, in husbanding
the world's food supply after our entrance into the War, in helping
write the peace treaty, which no one else equals.

He is as handy as a dictionary of dates or a cyclopedia of useful information, invaluable books,
which never obtain their just due; for no one ever signs his masterpiece with the name of its
coauthor, thus, by "John Smith and the Cyclopedia of Useful Information." A bad particle to
ride into fame behind, that word "and," begetter of much oblivion! Who can say what goes after
the "and" which follows the name McKinley, or Hayes, or Cleveland, or even Roosevelt? Who has sufficient
"faith in Massachusetts" to remember long the decorous dissyllable
connected by "and" with the name Harding?

The
link, "and," is not strong enough to hold. You recall the "and"; that is all; as in the case of
that article of food, origin of many "calories," to use Mr. Hoover's favorite word, in the
quick-serve resorts of the humble, where it supplements ably and usefully, but without honorable
mention, slender portions of beef, pork, and ham. To describe briefly, in a phrase, what has happened
to Hoover; two years ago, it was "Hoover"; to-day, it is "and Hoover." Why the connective?
Because, to put it bluntly, however great his other gifts are-- and they are remarkable-- he lacks
political intelligence. He reminds one now of a great insect caught
in the meshes of a silken web.

He struggles this way and that. He flutters his wings, and the web of politics fastens itself
to him with a hundred new contacts.

Facing possible elimination from public life, he accepted a dull and unromantic department under
President Harding. He was told that he could "make something of it." Modern Greeks bearing
gifts always bring you an opportunity which "you, and you alone, can make something of." He is
trying to make something of it, something more than Mr. Harding and
the party advisers intended when they gave him the Secretaryship of
Commerce.

He is trying to dramatize some turn of fate and be once more a "big
figure." He is tireless.

He arrives at his office fabulously early. Clerks drop in their tracks before he leaves at
night. He has time to see everyone who would see him; for he can never tell when "the man
with the idea" will knock at his door. Unlike the British naval officer charged with the duty
of examining inventions to win the War, who is described by Guedalla as sitting like an inverted
Micawber "waiting for something to turn down," he is waiting for something to turn up. He does more
than wait; he works twenty hours a day trying to turn something up. And he will turn something
up. The chances are that he will do as much for the infant foreign trade of this country as Alexander
Hamilton did for the infant finances of this country. He promises to be the most useful cabinet officer
in a generation. But this is less than his ambition. If he were an unknown man, it would be
enough; but you measure him by the stature of Hoover of the Belgian Relief. Like the issue of great
fathers, he is eclipsed by a preceding fame.

As well be the son of William Shakespeare as the political progeny of Hoover, The Food Administrator!
The War spoiled life for many men; for Wilson, for Baruch, for Hoover.
After its magnificent amplifications of personality, it is hard to
descend to every day, and be not a tremendous figure, but a successful
secretary of an unromantic department.

He might concentrate with advantage to his future fame. A brief absence from front pages, under
the connective "and," would cause the public heart to grow fonder when he did "make something"
of his own department.

But two disqualifications stand in his way;-- his lack of political intelligence, and his consequent
inability to make quick decisions in a political atmosphere.

His present diffusion of his energies springs, I think, from indecision; for in politics he
can not make up his mind, as he can in business, where the greatest profit lies. I first heard of
this weakness of his when he was Food Administrator in Washington,
and when other members of the Wilson War Administration, equal in
rank with him and having to cooperate with him, complained frequently
of his slowness.

He had able subordinates, they said, the leading men in the various food industries, and they had
to make up his mind for him. I set this charge down, at the time, to jealousy and prejudice, Mr.
Hoover being always an outsider in the Wilson administration; but
the long delay and immense difficulty he made over deciding, although
all his life a Republican, whether he was or was not a Republican
in the campaign of 1920, seemed all the proof of indecision that was
needed.

It sounds like heresy about one who has been advertised as he has; but remember that we know little
about him except what the best press agents in history have said
of him.

He achieved his professional success in the Orient, far from observation, and his financial success
far from American eyes.

His public career in the relief of Belgium and in the administration
of food was the object of world-wide good will. And, moreover, indecision
in politics is common enough among men who are strong and able in other
activities.

Mr. Taft was a great judge but wrecked his administration as President by inability to make up
his mind. Senator Kellogg was a brilliantly successful lawyer; but in public life he is so hesitant
that Minnesota politicians speak of him as "Nervous Nelly," and even Mr. Taft, during the Treaty fight, rebuked
him to his face for lack of courage. Mr. Hoover's face is not that
of a decisive character. The brow is ample and dominant; there is
vision and keen intelligence; but the rest of the face is not strong,
and it wears habitually a wavering self-conscious smile.

This smile, as if everybody were looking at him, makes him remind one as he comes out of a Cabinet
meeting of a small boy in a classroom carrying a bouquet of flowers
up to his teacher.

He has, moreover, a strain of pessimism in his nature, which may account
for his indecision. You catch him in moods of profound depression.

He was in one just before his appointment to the Cabinet, when his European
relief work was not going to his liking, and when the politicians,
he felt, were forcing him into a position of little scope and opportunity.

In politics, he has enough vanity and self-consciousness to be aware
constantly of forces opposed to him, covert, hostile, unscrupulous,
personal forces-- forces that he does not understand.

Give him a mining problem, he can reckon with the forces of nature that have to be overcome.
Give him a problem of finance, he knows the enmities of finance.

He is in his element. In politics he is not. He is baffled. An illustrative
incident occurred in the spring of 1920, when both parties were talking
of him as their candidate for President and he was uncertain whether
he was a Republican or not.

Mr. Hearst, in his newspapers, published an attack upon him, saying that he was more Briton
than American, and to prove it printed a list of British corporations of which he was a director.
All his suspicions were aroused over this everyday occurrence of
politics.

Where had Mr. Hearst obtained the unfortunate information? He saw plots and treachery. Someone in
his confidence must have betrayed him for money. A careful investigation
was made, and it was discovered that the editor had drawn upon "Who's
Who," to which Mr. Hoover himself had furnished the information before
he began thinking of the Presidency.

The politicians tricked him so completely in the preconvention campaign of 1920 that he has
the best reasons for distrusting himself.

He was always, during that campaign, a candidate for the Republican nomination to the Presidency.
At the very time when his spokesman, Julius Barnes, was saying for him that he could not choose
between the two parties until he had seen their candidates and read
their platforms, and when the Democrats were most seriously impressed
with his availability, the manager of his paper in Washington said
to me, "This talk of Hoover for the Democratic nomination is moonshine.

He won't take it." "Why not," I asked him. "Because," he replied, "he does not think it is worth having,"
a quite practical reason which differed wholly from the official explanation that Mr. Hoover was
waiting to see which party was progressive so that he might oppose reaction. His subsequent
support of the more conservative candidate and the more conservative party bore out the truth of
what his newspaper manager had said.

And in reality, Mr. Hoover is as conservative as Mr. Harding himself, being a large capitalist
with all the conservatism of the capitalist class. A little while ago, Mr. Roosevelt had
made it unfashionable to admit that you were conservative. You wished it to be understood that you
were open-minded-- "forward looking," as Mr. Wilson, who turned reactionary
at the test, called it; that you were broad, sympathetic, free from
mean prejudices, progressive, in short.

Our
very best reactionaries of to-day all used to call themselves progressive. Some still do. The
young editor of a metropolitan newspaper, born to great wealth, and imbibing all the narrowness of the
second generation, once asked me in those bright days when everybody was thrilling over his "liberality,"
"Would you call me a radical, or just a progressive?" He was "just a
progressive."

In a somewhat similar sense, Mr. Hoover was quite unconsciously "just a progressive"-- a belated follower
of a pleasant fashion, having lived abroad too long when he made his announcement to note the subtle
changes that had taken place in our thinking-- the rude shock that Russia had given to our "liberality."
But living abroad, it is only fair to add, has created a difference between his conservatism and
that, let us say, of Judge Gary. He has grown used to labor unions and even to labor parties, so
that they do not frighten him. His is conservatism, none the less, definite conservatism, if more
enlightened than the obscurant American variety.

His hesitation and indecision in the spring of 1920 thus did not
spring from doubt of the Republican party's progressiveness.

He always desired the Republican nomination; but his vanity would suffer by the open seeking of it and
the defeat which seemed likely; and his sensitiveness would suffer from the attacks, like that of Mr.
Hearst, which an open candidacy would entail; for he is at once vain
and thin-skinned.

Springing thus from reluctance to make up his mind, the announcement was received as the evidence
of a very large mind. Among the public, Mr. Hoover was taken for a man who cared more for principle
than for party or for politics. Among the politicians, he assumed the proportions of a portent,
with a genius for politics second only to that of Roosevelt himself,
who in a difficult situation could take the one position and say the
one thing that might force his nomination.

The Democrats pricked up their ears. Mr. Wilson, sick and discouraged, began to entertain hopes
of a candidate who would save the Democracy from ruin. Homer Cummings, National Chairman of Mr. Wilson's
party, began to regard Mr. Hoover's possible nomination favorably. The
Republican managers became alarmed.

They knew from Mr. Hoover's friends that he, as his Washington newspaper
manager had said, thought the Democratic nomination not worth having;
but they feared lest by the course he was pursuing he might make it
worth having, might take it, and might rob them of the election which
they felt safely theirs.

If they could induce him to declare his Republicanism, the Democrats would drop him, the public would
cease to be interested in him as a dramatic personality too big for party trammels, and they themselves
could ignore him. It was decided to have him read out of the Republican party as a warning to him of
how he was imperiling his hopes of the only nomination he valued, and at the same time have Republican
leaders go to him or his friends and advise him and them that if he would only declare his
Republicanism, a popular demand would force his nomination at Chicago. Senator Penrose was
chosen as the Republican whose pontifical damnation would most impress
Mr. Hoover.

The late W. Murray Crane, whom I have heard described at Mr. Roosevelt's dinner table as "the Uriah
Heap of the Republican party," was the emissary who would advise Mr. Hoover to confess the error
of his ways and seek the absolution of Penrose. A diary kept at Republican National Headquarters
in New York reveals the visits there at the time the plan was made
of Mr. Crane and others who took part in the enterprise.

Mr. Penrose got up from a sick bed and thundered: under no circumstances would he permit the nomination
of Mr. Hoover. The plot succeeded. In a few days, Mr. Hoover declared that he would not take
the Democratic nomination. The Democrats dropped him. The public was bewildered by his finding out
that he was a Republican after saying that he could not tell whether he was one or not until
he had seen the Republican candidate and the platform. I have seen the same play with the same part otherwise acted, and in exact degree
as the love became dull and earthy, the heroine descended from her pedestal.

In Ruy Blas, in the Master of Ravenswood, and in the Lady of Lyons-- three dramas in which
Mr. Fechter especially shines as a lover, but notably in the first--this remarkable power of
surrounding the beloved creature, in the eyes of the audience, with the fascination that she
has for him, is strikingly displayed. Enough to account for a smile in marble, bronze, or in
whatever metal the human face is made of.

Take the miracle of the War Administration. It was not vanity but humility, the kind of humility
that would have saved Wilson, that served Mr. Baruch there. He came to Washington out of Wall
Street and Wall Street is always anathema. More than that he came out of that part of Wall Street
which is beyond the pale; he did not belong to the right monied set there; which is to be anathema
with that part of the community to which Wall Street itself is not anathema; moreover he had
been unjustly accused in connection with the famous Wall Street "leak." And he entered an administration
which was the center of much prejudice and hatred. Yet he was modest enough, however, to assume
that his personality did not count, that it was the work to be done which mattered, and that
he could depend upon the friendliness both of the Republicans and
of the great industrial interests of the country to that work if it
should be properly done.

The belief Mr. Wilson has and a much lesser man, Hiram Johnson, has, that men are thinking
exclusively about them personally and not about the causes they advocate or the measures they
propose is a more dangerous form of vanity than the habit of admiring oneself audibly. It
requires colossal egotism to imagine the existence of many enemies and Mr. Baruch is genuinely
humble in the matter of enmity. After watching him during the war, in an administration which was
enemy mad, I fancy he counts his genuine foes on the fingers of one hand. Moreover he was quite
impersonal about his task. He did not do everything himself on the theory that no one else was
quite big enough to do it. There is no practical snobbism about him. His knowledge of the industries
of the country was that of the speculator; it was not that of the
practical industrialist, and he knew it.

He surrounded himself with
the best men he could find.

The foregoing use of the word "ferociously" reminds me to remark that this artist is a master
of passionate vehemence; in which aspect he appears to me to represent, perhaps more than in
any other, an interesting union of characteristics of two great nations,--the French and the
Anglo-Saxon.  Born in London of a French mother, by a German father, but reared entirely in
England and in France, there is, in his fury, a combination of French suddenness and impressibility
with our more slowly demonstrative Anglo-Saxon way when we get, as we say, "our blood up",
that produces an intensely fiery result. You might as well collect shares in the Great Montezuma
Gold Mine, and expect to derive benefit from the investment.

Gems are among the things that the Duffer may most wisely collect, for the excellent reason
that, in this country, he very seldom indeed finds any for sale. He cannot come to much sorrow,
for lack of opportunities. In Italy it is different. How many beautiful works of Art I have acquired
in Florence, at considerable ransoms, all of them signed in neat, but illegible Greek capitals.
I puzzled over them with microscopes. The names seemed to end in [Greek: ICHLÊS]. I thought myself
a rival of BLACAS, or Lord KILSYTH, or the British Museum. Then my friend, WILKINS, came in. "Pretty
enough pastes of the last century I see," he remarks. "Pastes!-- last century!" I indignantly
exclaim; "why they're of the best period: Sards, all of them signed, but I can't make out the artist's
name." "It is PICHLER," says WILKINS, "he usually signed, for fear his things should be sold
as antiques."

I had to give in about PICHLER (which certainly does not sound very Greek); "but here," I
said, "you can't call this paste, you can't scratch the back of it." "I know I can't," says WILKINS,
examining the ring, "for a very good reason, because a thin layer of sard has been inserted behind.
But it's paste, for all that."

"Well," I say, "here's a genuine ancient ring, old gold, and a lovely
head of Prosperine in cornelian."

"Well,
this is odd," says WILKINS, "I know the setting is genuine, I have seen it before. But then
it had a rubbishy late bit of work in it, and I was in the atelier when a gem-cutter shaved
away the top of the stone, and copied your head of Prosperine on it from a Sicilian coin. I can
show you a coin of the same stamp in my collection."

And he showed me it, otherwise I might have remained incredulous. "These scarabs," he went on,
"are from Birmingham, I know the glaze. That gold Egyptian ring, Queen TAIA's do you say, is Coptic,
Cairo is full of them. That head of CÆSAR is a copy from the one
in the British Museum."

"Why, it is rough with age," I said.

"Ay, they've stuffed it down a turkey's crop, and it has got rubbed up in the gravel with which the ingenious
bird assists the process of digestion. A man who could swallow that
gem is a goose."

I am presenting my esteemed collection of ancient engraved stones to my nephew at school, who
shows all the character of the collector. He may swop them for bats, or tarts, or he may learn
wisdom from the misfortunes of his uncle.***** IN THIS STYLE, SIX-AND-EIGHTPENCE.

Mr. Badgerer, Q. C. (rising to cross-examine).

Then you assert that the golden dinner-service which we are inquiring
about was in your possession on the evening of July 26th at half-past
eight o'clock?

Plaintiff. I do. Mr. Badgerer, Q. C. And that when you went to take them out of the strong-box
at 9: 15 for your party they had disappeared? Plaintiff. Quite so. Mr. Badgerer, Q. C. Pardon
my suggesting such a thing, but I am instructed to ask you whether,
when you paid£ 800 to the rate-collector for arrears of rates on the
very next day, you had not obtained that sum by selling a portion
of this gold plate yourself?

The Judge.

Really, Mr. BADGERER, this won't
do at all. "Legal bullying" is a thing of the past, and I shall have
to commit you for contempt if you make these unworthy suggestions
to the Witness.

Mr. Badgerer, Q. C. But, m'Lud, the whole point of the defence is
that the Plaintiff himself sto-- The Judge (hastily interposing).--
Sh!

You must not talk like that.
Remember that "the floor of the Court is not the same thing as the
interior of a coal-barge." Mr. Badgerer, Q. C. (sulkily). Very well.
But I really don't know how I am to conduct my case if your Ludship
intervenes to check me.

(To Witness.) I can ask you this at any
rate. Did you or did you not run up to Town by an early train the morning
after the robbery? Plaintiff. Certainly I did.  I do not remember whether he wore his hair crisply
curled short, as if he were going to an everlasting dancing-master's party at the Danish court;
but I do remember that most other Hamlets since the great Kemble had been bound to do so. 
Mr. Fechter's Hamlet, a pale, woebegone Norseman with long flaxen hair, wearing a strange garb
never associated with the part upon the English stage (if ever seen there at all) and making
a piratical swoop upon the whole fleet of little theatrical prescriptions without meaning,
or, like Dr. Johnson's celebrated friend, with only one idea in them, and that a wrong one,
never could have achieved its extraordinary success but for its animation by one pervading
purpose, to which all changes were made intelligently subservient.  The bearing of this purpose
on the treatment of Ophelia, on the death of Polonius, and on the old student fellowship between
Hamlet and Horatio, was exceedingly striking; and the difference between picturesqueness of
stage arrangement for mere stage effect, and for the elucidation of a meaning, was well displayed
in there having been a gallery of musicians at the Play, and in one of them passing on his
way out, with his instrument in his hand, when Hamlet, seeing it, took it from him, to point
his talk with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. 

The Republicans had a bare majority in the Senate and if any of them deserted the organization
it might mean Democratic control. The leaders were disturbed and tried to mollify the defiant
Senator from Idaho with every means at hand even giving assurance that the Senator from Pennsylvania
would vote against the Peace Treaty and the League of Nations which was supposed to represent
his vital interest at that time. He refused to compromise and announced
that Penrose must go.

Footnotes:

{1}  Cornhill Magazine

