Sweeping by the cape, the canoe sometimes standing on end, and sometimes buried in the deep
hollow of the sea, we sunk the light on St. Thome soon out of sight and stood on with flowing
sheet. The wind on the following day settled into regular south-east "trades," and our cedar
canoe skipped briskly along, over friendly seas that were leaping toward home, doffing their
crests onward and forward, but never back, and the splashing waves against her sides, then
rippling along the thin cedar planks between the crew and eternity, vibrated enchanting music
to the ear, while confidence grew in the bark that was HOMEWARD BOUND.

But coming upon coral reefs, of a dark night, while we listened to the dismal tune of the seas
breaking over them with an eternal roar, how intensely lonesome they were! no sign of any living
thing in sight, except, perhaps, the phosphorescent streaks of a hungry shark, which told of
bad company in our wake, and made the gloom of the place more dismal still.

One night we made shelter under the lee of the extensive reefs called the Paredes (walls),
without seeing the breakers at all in the dark, although they were not far in the distance.
At another time, dragging on sail to clear a lee shore, of a dark and stormy night, we came
suddenly into smooth water, where we cast anchor and furled our sails, lying in a magic harbour
till daylight the next morning, when we found ourselves among a maze of ugly reefs, with high
seas breaking over them, as far as the eye could reach, on all sides, except at the small entrance
to the place that we had stumbled into in the night. The position of this future harbour is
South Lat. 16° 48', and West Long, from Greenwich 39° 30'. We named the place "PORT LIBERDADE."

The next places sighted were the treacherous Abrohles, and the village of Caravellas back of
the reef where, upon refitting, I found that a chicken cost a thousand reis, a bunch of bananas
four hundred reis; but where a dozen limes cost only twenty reis--one cent. Much whaling gear
lay strewn about the place, and on the beach was the carcass of a whale about nine days slain.
Also leaning against a smart-looking boat was a grey-haired fisherman, boat and man relics
of New Bedford, employed at this station in their familiar industry. The old man was bare-footed
and thinly clad, after the custom in this climate. Still, I recognized the fisherman and sailor
in the set and rig of the few duds he had on, and the ample straw hat (donkey's breakfast)
that he wore, and doffed in a seaman-like manner, upon our first salute. "Filio do Mar do Nord
Americano," said an affable native close by, pointing at the same time to that "son of the
sea of North America," by way of introduction, as soon as it was learned that we, too, were
of that country. I tried to learn from this ancient mariner the cause of his being stranded
in this strange land. He may have been cast up there by the whale for aught I could learn to
the contrary.

Choosing a berth well to windward of the dead whale--the one that landed "the old man of the
sea" there, maybe!--we anchored for the night, put a light in the rigging and turned in. Next
morning, the village was astir betimes; canoes were being put afloat, and the rattle of poles,
paddles, bait boxes, and many more things for the daily trip that were being hastily put into
each canoe, echoed back from the tall palm groves notes of busy life, telling us that it was
time to weigh anchor and be sailing. To this cheerful tune we lent ear and, hastening to be
underweigh, were soon clear of the port. Then, skimming along near the beach in the early morning,
our sails spread to a land breeze, laden with fragrance from the tropic forest and the music
of many songsters, we sailed in great felicity, dreading no dangers from the sea, for there
were none now to dread or fear.

Proceeding forward through this belt of moderate winds, fanned by alternating land and sea
breezes, we drew on toward a region of high trade-winds that reach sometimes the dignity of
a gale. It was no surprise, therefore, after days of fine-weather sailing, to be met by a storm,
which so happened as to drive us into the indifferent anchorage of St. Paulo, thirty miles
from Bahia, where we remained two days for shelter.

Time, three days from Caravellas; distance sailed, 270 miles.

A few fishermen lounged about the place, living, apparently, in wretched poverty, spending
their time between waiting for the tide to go out, when it was in, and waiting for it to come
in, when it was out, to float a canoe or bring fish to their shiftless nets. This, indeed,
seemed their only concern in life; while their ill-thatched houses, forsaken of the adobe that
once clung to the wicker walls, stood grinning in rows, like emblems of our mortality.

We found at this St. Paulo anything but saints. The wretched place should be avoided by strangers,
unless driven there for shelter, as we ourselves were, by stress of weather. We left the place
on the first lull of the wind, having been threatened by an attack from a gang of rough, half-drunken
fellows, who rudely came on board, jostling about, and jabbering in a dialect which, however,
I happened to understand. I got rid of them by the use of my broken Portuguese, and once away
I was resolved that they should stay away. I was not mistaken in my suspicions that they would
return and try to come aboard, which shortly afterward they did, but my resolution to keep
them off was not shaken. I let them know, in their own jargon this time, that I was well armed.
They finally paddled back to the shore, and all visiting was then ended. We stood a good watch
that night, and by daylight next morning, Aug. 12th, put to sea, standing out in a heavy swell,
the character of which I knew better, and could trust to more confidently than a harbour among
treacherous natives.

Early in the same day, we arrived at Bahia do todos Santos (All Saints' Bay), a charming port,
with a rich surrounding country. It was from this port, by the way, that Robinson Crusoe sailed
for Africa to procure slaves for his plantation and that of his friend, so fiction relates.

At Bahia we met many friends and gentle folk. Not the least interesting at this port are the
negro lasses of fine physique seen at the markets and in the streets, with burdens on their
heads of baskets of fruit, or jars of water, which they balance with ease and grace, as they
go sweeping by with that stately mien which the dusky maiden can call her own.

CHAPTER XIII

     At Bahia--Meditations on the discoverers--The Caribbees.

At Bahia we refitted, with many necessary provisions, and repaired the keel, which we found,
upon hauling out, had been damaged by the encounter with the whale at Frio. An iron shoe was
now added for the benefit of all marine monsters wishing to scratch their backs on our canoe.

Among the many friends whom we met at Bahia were Capt. Boyd and his family of the bark H. W.
Palmer. We shall meet the Palmer and the Boyds again on the voyage. They were old traders to
South America and had many friends at this port who combined to make our visit a pleasant one.
And their little son Rupert was greatly taken with the "Riberdade," as he called her, coming
often to see us. And the officials of the port taking great interest in our voyage, came often
on board. No one could have treated us more kindly than they.

The venerable Administradore himself gave us special welcome to the port and a kind word upon
our departure, accompanied by a present for my wife in the shape of a rare white flower, which
we cherished greatly as coming from a true gentleman.

Some strong abolitionists at the port would have us dine in an epicurean way in commemoration
of the name given our canoe, which was adopted because of her having been put afloat on the
thirteenth day of May, the day on which every human being in Brazil could say, "I have no master
but one." I declined the banquet tendered us, having work on hand, fortifying the canoe against
the ravaging worms of the seas we were yet to sail through, bearing in mind the straits of
my great predecessor from this as well as other causes on his voyage over the Caribbean Seas.
I was bound to be strengthened against the enemy.

The gout, it will be remembered, seized upon the good Columbus while his ship had worms, when
both ship and admiral lay stranded among menacing savages; surrounded, too, by a lawless, threatening
band of his own countrymen not less treacherous than the worst of cannibals. His state was
critical indeed! One calamity was from over-high living--this I was bound to guard against--the
other was from neglect on the part of his people to care for the ship in a seaman-like manner.
Of the latter difficulty I had no risk to run.

Lazy and lawless, but through the pretext of religion, the infected crew wrought on the pious
feelings of the good admiral, inducing him at every landing to hold mass instead of cleaning
the foul ship. Thus through petty intrigue and grave neglects, they brought disaster and sorrow
on their leader and confusion on their own heads. Their religion, never deep, could not be
expected to keep Terredo from the ship's bottom, so her timbers were ravished, and ruin came
to them all! Poor Columbus! had he but sailed with his son Diego and his noble brother Bartholomew,
for his only crew and companions, not forgetting the help of a good woman, America would have
been discovered without those harrowing tales of woe and indeed heartrending calamities which
followed in the wake of his designing people. Nor would his ship have been less well manned
than was the Liberdade, sailing, centuries after, over the same sea and among many of the islands
visited by the great discoverer--sailing, too, without serious accident of any kind, and without
sickness or discontent. Our advantage over Columbus, I say, was very great, not more from the
possession of data of the centuries which had passed than from having a willing crew sailing
without dissent or murmur--sailing in the same boat, as it were.

A pensive mood comes over one voyaging among the scenes of the New World's early play-ground.
To us while on this canoe voyage of pleasant recollection the fancied experience of navigators
gone before was intensely thrilling.

Sailing among islands clothed in eternal green, the same that Columbus beheld with marvellous
anticipations, and the venerable Las Casas had looked upon with pious wonder, brought us, in
the mind's eye, near the old discoverers; and a feeling that we should come suddenly upon their
ships around some near headland took deep hold upon our thoughts as we drew in with the shores.
All was there to please the imagination and dream over in the same balmy, sleepy atmosphere,
where Juan Ponce de Leon would fain have tarried young, but found death rapid, working side
by side with ever springing life. To live long in this clime one must obey great Nature's laws.
So stout Juan and millions since have found, and so always it will be.

All was there to testify as of yore, all except the first owners of the land; they alas! the
poor Caribbees, together with their camp fires, had been extinguished long years before. And
no one of human sympathy can read of the cruel tortures and final extermination of these islanders,
savages though they were, without a pang of regret at the unpleasant page in a history of glory
and civilization.

