Rising, Beatrice called Dante, Statius, and Matilda to her, and as they walked upon that pleasant
mead, she asked Dante the meaning of his continued silence. She explained the attacks on the
chariot to him, but he declared that he could not understand her language. Then, at Beatrice's
nod, Matilda called him and Statius, and plunged them into Eunoe, whence he rose regenerate,
and prepared to mount to the stars.

THE DIVINE COMEDY.

THE PARADISE.

The Paradise of Dante consists of nine heavens, each a revolving crystalline sphere, enclosed
in another; without them, the boundless Empyrean. The first or innermost heaven, of the Moon,
revolved by the angels, is the habitat of wills imperfect through instability. The second,
of Mercury, revolved by the Archangels, is the abode of wills imperfect through love of fame.
The third, of Venus, revolved by the Principalities, is the abode of wills imperfect through
excess of human love. The fourth, of the Sun, revolved by the Powers, is the abode of the great
intellectual lights, the doctors of the Church. The fifth heaven, of Mars, revolved by the
Virtues, is the abode of the martyrs, warriors, and confessors, and is sacred to the Faith.
The sixth, of Jupiter, revolved by the Dominations, is inhabited by just rulers. The seventh,
of Saturn, revolved by the Thrones, is inhabited by monks and hermits. The eighth, of the Fixed
Stars, revolved by the Cherubim, is inhabited by the apostles and saints. The ninth, or Primum
Mobile, revolved by the Seraphim, is the abode of the moral philosophers. These abodes, however,
are not real, but representative, to illustrate the differences in glory of the inhabitants
of Paradise, for the real seat of each is in the Rose of the Blessed. In the heavens, the saints
appear swathed in cocoons of light; in the Rose they are seen in their own forms. They know
all because they behold God continually. In the Empyrean is the Rose of the Blessed, whose
myriad leaves form the thrones of the spirits, and whose centre of light is the Father himself.
Dividing the Rose horizontally, the lower thrones are held by those who died in infancy; among
them are varying degrees of glory. Above it, are those who died adults. Supposing a vertical
division, the thrones to the left are for those who looked forward to Christ's coming; those
to the right, not yet all occupied, by those who died after Christ's coming. Along the division
lines are the holy women, the Virgin, Eve, Rachel, Beatrice, Sarah, Rebecca, Judith, and Ruth,
Saint Anne and Saint Lucia, and the saints, John the Baptist, John the Evangelist, Adam, Moses,
Saint Francis, Saint Benedict, Saint Augustine, Saint Peter, and in the midst, the Everlasting
Glory of the Universe, whose light so fills the Rose that "naught can form an obstacle against it."

THE STORY OF THE DIVINE COMEDY.

THE PARADISE.

The ascent to Paradise was accomplished by a fixed gaze into Beatrice's eyes, by which Dante,
like Glaucus, was made divine, and by which he was lifted, with incredible swiftness, through
the heavens. As soon as he had fixed his eyes on Beatrice's, who in turn looked towards heaven,
they found themselves in the Heaven of the Moon, whose luminous yet pearl-like light enfolded
them. While Beatrice was explaining to him that the spots on the moon were not caused by the
varying degrees of atmospheric density, as he had supposed, but by the Divine Virtue infused
in divine measure through the angelic dwellers in the first heaven, he met Piccarda, his sister-in-law,
whose brother, Corso Donati, had torn her from her convent to wed her to Rosselin della Tosa,
soon after which she died. Here also was Costanza, daughter of Roger I. of Sicily, grandmother
of that Manfredi whom he had seen in Purgatory. Here Beatrice instructed Dante as to the imperfection
of those wills that held not to their vows, but allowed violence to thwart them.

Another look into the smiling eyes, and the two were in the Heaven of Mercury, where those
wills abide in whom love of fame partly extinguished love of God. One of the thousand splendors
that advanced towards them was the soul of the Emperor Justinian, who reviewed the Empire,
the Church, condemning severely the behavior of the Guelphs and Ghibellines, and told of the
spirits who inhabited the little planet, whose lives were sweetened by living justice, and
whose ears were gladdened by the sweetest harmonies.

Dante was unaware of his ascent into, Venus, where dwelt those souls who were lovers on earth,
until he perceived Beatrice's added beauty. Amid revolving lights Charles Martel of Hungary
appeared, denounced his brother Robert of Sicily, and instructed Dante on the subjects of heredity
and degeneracy; that "sweet seed can come bitter" because the influence of the star under which
the child is born can counteract that of the parent, and because his state is not always adapted
to him by his parents and advisers.

In the sphere of the Sun, consecrated to the great doctors of divinity, Beatrice became still
more beautiful; but so absorbed was the poet in the love for the Eternal Source of all this
splendor that for the first time he forgot her. Out of the whirling lights, shining like precious
jewels, came Saint Thomas Aquinas, who pointed out to Dante his noted companions, Gratian,
Peter Lombard, Solomon, Dionysius, Boethius, and Baeda. Thomas then related the story of Saint
Francis of Assisi and the founding of his order of the Franciscans, upon which Saint Bonaventura
of the Franciscans, from the next flame garland, told of Saint Dominic and the Dominican order.
Alas! while both orders were great in the beginning, both narrators had to censure their present
corruption.

The array of brilliant lights, dividing itself, formed into two disks which, revolving oppositely,
sang the praises of the Trinity. The song of praise finished, Saint Thomas explained that Solomon
was elevated to this sphere for his wisdom and his regal prudence, and warned Dante against
the error of rash judgment.

The splendor of Mars was almost blinding; it was ruddier than the others, and in it dwelt the
souls of the crusaders and martyrs. While Dante's ears were ravished by exquisite music, his
eyes were dazzled by the lights, which had arranged themselves in the form of a cross. From
out the splendor, one star saluted Dante. It was the soul of his ancestor Cacciaguida, who
had waited long for the coming of his descendant. He related to Dante the story of his life,
commenting on the difference between the simple life of the Florentines of his day and the
corrupt practices of Dante's time, and broke to the poet what had already been darkly hinted
to him in Hell and Purgatory,--his banishment; how he must depart from Florence and learn how
salt is the bread of charity, how wearisome the stairs in the abode of the stranger.

As Cacciaguida ceased and pointed out the other well-known dwellers in Mars, each one on the
cross flashed as his name was called,--Joshua, Judas Maccabeus, Charlemagne and Roland, Godfrey
of Bouillon, Robert Guiscard, and others.

In Jupiter, whose whiteness contrasted with the ruddiness of Mars, dwelt the souls of great
rulers, certain of whom arranged themselves first to form the golden letters of Diligite Justitiam
qui judicatis terram ("Love righteousness, ye that be judges of the earth"), and then formed
themselves into the Roman eagle and sang of the justice and mercy that caused their elevation
to this position, and of events about to occur in history.

Had Beatrice smiled as they ascended to Saturn, Dante would have perished as did Semele, from
excess of light. In Saturn dwelt the spirits of the contemplative, the monks and hermits, and
here was Jacob's ladder, up and down whose bars of gold sparkled the spirits of the saints,
silent for the same reason that Beatrice smiled not. By divine election, Saint Peter Damian
descended and spoke with Dante, accusing the churchmen of the time of worldliness and luxury.
"Cephas and our Lord came on earth barefoot and poorly clad, but these men are covered with
gorgeous raiment and ride upon sleek palfreys." As he closed, a thunder cry of approval went
up from the other saints.

Up the wonderful ladder passed Dante and his lady into the eighth heaven of the Fixed Stars,
and looking down saw the little earth and the starry heavens through which they had passed.
Then, as Beatrice paused with her face all aflame, and her eyes full of ecstasy, down came
the hosts of Christ's triumphal march, and within the living light, which dazzled Dante's eyes
until he could not see, also appeared Mary, mother of God, crowned by Gabriel, rising into
the Empyrean. Of those who remained behind, Beatrice asked that Dante be sprinkled with the
waters of the living Fountain; and while they gave their consent, Saint Peter appeared as a
fire whirling ecstatically, and singing a divine song. He examined the trembling poet on faith,
and his questions being answered satisfactorily, encircled him thrice with his light. Saint
James, who next came forth, was likewise pleased with his response on Hope, and he was then
blinded by the effulgence of John, so that for a time he could not see the face of his lady.

Of Love he spoke with John, and then talked with Adam. As he listened to the strains of richest
melody, he noticed one of the lights--Saint Peter--change from white to red, and then, as silence
fell, speak, enraged at the worldliness of the Holy See. "My cemetery has been made a sewer
of blood and stench. When thou returnest to earth, reveal what thou hast heard. Do not thou
conceal what I have not concealed."

Commanded by Beatrice, Dante looked back at earth once more, and as he looked, was carried
up into the heaven of the Primum Mobile, where dwelt the moral philosophers. Here the angelic
spirits circled round the point of intense light, the divine centre. The nearer God was the
circle, the greater virtue it possessed. This order was inverse to that of the heavens, but
Dante learned from Beatrice that the orbs revolved through narrow paths or wide according to
the virtue of their parts, and that a strict agreement of harmony prevailed between the great
and the small. The angel and the heavens were created simultaneously, and, as direct emanations
from God, know no decay. Of this and many things concerning the Creation, did Beatrice enlighten
Dante before the beauty of her smile told him that they were in the Empyrean. "Now shall thou
look upon the mighty hosts of Paradise."

The poet's dazzled eyes saw then a river of light from which issued living sparks sunk down
into the flowers like rubies set in gold. Instructed by Beatrice he drank of the stream and
the river changed into a lake; then he saw the Courts of Heaven made manifest, and the splendor
of God. The ample Rose unfolded its leaves before him, breathing praise and perfume, and as
he gazed into it Beatrice pointed out the radiant spirits and the thronged seats, one of which
was reserved for the Emperor Henry of Luxembourg, from whom Dante expected so much, and who
died before aught was accomplished. As Dante gazed, the hosts with wings of gold and faces
of living flame, singing anthems, alternately sank into the Rose, like a swarm of bees sinking
into summer flowers, and rose again to view the Divine splendor. Turning to question Beatrice
again, Dante found in her place Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, an old man full of the tenderest
pity, who pointed out to him Beatrice in her own place, the third round of the first rank.
As from afar, Dante pleaded with the beautiful lady who had left her place in heaven to go
even unto the gates of hell for his sake, to aid him still; she seemed to smile upon him before
she again turned her gaze upon the Eternal Fountain of Light. Saint Bernard explained to the
poet the divisions of the Rose and the seats of the saints, and then addressed a prayer to
the Virgin, asking that Dante be permitted to look upon the Almighty Father. As he prayed,
Beatrice and all the blessed ones clasped their hands to her who likes so well prayers of divine
fervor. At a gesture from Bernard, the poet looked upward. Then what a radiant vision met his
eyes! Three circles he saw of threefold color and one dimension. As he looked, one seemed to
take our image, and again was lost in the infinite glory of the Light Divine. As he tried to
describe it, imagination failed him, though his will remained, moving on with the even motion
of the sun and stars.

SELECTIONS FROM THE DIVINE COMEDY.

COUNT UGOLINO.

In the frozen lake of Cocytus in the ninth circle of the Inferno, where were punished the traitors
to kindred, country, friends, or benefactors, the poets beheld Count Ugolino, a Guelph, who,
because of his treachery, was taken prisoner by the people with his sons and grandsons and
thrust into a tower, where they were left to starve. Ugolino was frozen in the ice, where he
forever gnawed the head of the Archbishop Ruggieri, his enemy. At the request of Dante he stopped
to tell his story.

                 "Thy will 'tis I renew
    A desperate sorrow that doth crush my heart
    Even before my lips its tale impart.
  But if my words may be a seed that, sowed,
    Shall fruit of infamy to this traitor bear,
    Then, though I weep, speech too shall be my care.

  "Who thou may'st be I know not, nor what mode
    Hath brought thee here below, but then I glean,
    From words of thine, thou art a Florentine.
  That I Count Ugolino was, know thou,
    And this the Archbishop Ruggieri. Why
    I will thee tell we are such neighbors nigh.
  Needs not to say that him I did allow
    A friend's own trusts, but so his treachery wrought;
    That first my liberty, then my life, it sought.

  "But that which thou canst not have hitherto learned
    That is, how cruel was my death, I thee
    Will tell; judge thou if he offended me.
  Within the Mew, a tower which well hath earned
    From me its name of Famine, and where wrath
    Yet others waits, a narrow opening hath,
  Through which of several moons the broken light
    Had strayed, when unto me in sleep was sent
    A dream whereby the future's veil was rent.

  "This ill dream me this man set forth in might:
    He wolf and whelps upon those mounts pursued
    Which Pisa 'twixt and Lucca's domes obtrude.
  Hounds had he with him, lank and shrewd and keen,
    And in their front Gualandi's sword had place,
    Sismondi's lash and sour Lanfranchi's mace.
  Father and sons' undoing soon was seen;
    Methought the sharp fangs on them closed, and tore
    Their flanks, which now the hue of crimson wore.

  "Before the dawn I woke and heard my sons,
    The helpless children with me, in their sleep,
    Cry out for bread, cries pushed from sobbings deep.
  Right cruel art thou, if not e'en now runs
    To tears thy grief at what my heart forbode,
    If tears of thine at misery's tale e'er flowed.
  And then they woke, and came the hour around
    Which had been wont our scanty meal to bring;
    But from our dreams dumb terrors seemed to spring;

  "When from below we heard the dreadful sound
    Of nails; the horrible tower was closed; all dumb
    I let my gaze into my sons' eyes come.
  Weep I did not, like stone my feelings lay.
    They wept, and spoke my little Anselm: 'Pray
    Why lookest so? Father, what ails thee, say?'
  Shed I no tear, nor answered all that day
    Nor the next night, until another sun
    His journey through the wide world had begun.

  "Then came a small ray into our sad, sad den,
    And when in their four faces I beheld
    That carking grief which mine own visage held,
  Mine hands for grief I bit, and they, who then
    Deemed that I did it from desire to eat,
    Stood up each one at once upon his feet,
  And said: 'Father, 'twill give us much less pain
    If thou wilt eat of us: of thee was born
    This hapless flesh, and be it by thee torn.'

  "Myself I calmed that they might not so grieve;
    Mute that day and the next we were; O thou
    Most cruel earth, that didst not open now!
  When we the fourth day's agony did receive
    Stretched at my feet himself my Gaddo threw,
    And said: 'My father, canst thou nothing do?'
  There died he, and, as now sees me thy sight,
    The three I saw fall one by one; first died
    One on the fifth; deaths two the sixth me tried.

  "Then blind, I groped o'er them to left and right,
    And for three days called on their spirits dead;
    Then grief before the power of fasting fled."
             Wilstach's Translation, Inferno. Canto XXXIII.

BUONCONTE DI MONTEFELTRO.

On the second terrace of the Ante-Purgatory, on the Purgatorial Mount, were the spirits of
those whose lives were ended by violence. Among those who here addressed Dante was Buonconte
di Montefeltro, who was slain in the battle of Campaldino, and whose body was never found.

  Another then: "Ah, be thy cherished aim
    Attained that to the lofty Mount thee draws,
    As thou with pity shalt advance my cause.
  Of Montefeltro I Buonconte am;
    Giovanna, and she only, for me cares;
    Hence among those am I whom waiting wears."

  "What violence or what chance led thee so wide
    From Campaldino," I of him inquired,
    "That's still unknown thy burial-place retired?"
  "Oh, Casentino's foot," he thus replied,
    "Archiano's stream o'erflows, which hath its rise
    Above the Hermitage under Apennine skies.
  There where its name is lost did I arrive,
    Pierced through and through the throat, in flight,
    Upon the plain made with my life-blood bright;

  "There sight I lost, and did for speech long strive;
    At last I uttered Mary's name, and fell
    A lifeless form, mine empty flesh a shell.
  Truth will I speak, below do thou it hymn;
    Took me God's Angel up, and he of Hell
    Cried out: 'O thou from Heaven, thou doest well
  To rob from me the eternal part of him
    For one poor tear, that me of him deprives;
    In other style I'll deal with other lives!'

  "Well know'st thou how in air is gathered dim
    That humid vapor which to water turns
    Soon as the cold its rising progress learns.
  The fiend that ill-will joined (which aye seeks ill)
    To intellectual power, which mist and wind
    Moved by control which faculties such can find,
  And afterwards, when the day was spent, did fill
    The space from Protomagno to where tower
    The Mounts with fog; and high Heaven's covering power

  "The pregnant atmosphere moist to water changed.
    Down fell the rain, and to the ditches fled,
    Whate'er of it the soil's thirst had not sped;
  And, as it with the mingling torrents ranged
    Towards the royal river, so it flowed
    That over every obstacle wild it rode.
  The robust river found my stiffened frame
    Near to its outlet, and it gave a toss
    To Arno, loosening from my breast the cross

  "I made of me when agony me o'ercame;
    Along his banks and bottoms he me lapped,
    Then in his muddy spoils he me enwrapped."
           Wilstach's Translation, Purgatorio, Canto V.

BEATRICE DESCENDING FROM HEAVEN.

Dante and Vergil mounted to the Terrestial Paradise, where, while they talked with Matilda,
the Car of the Church Triumphant appeared in the greatest splendor. As it stopped before Dante
it was enveloped in a shower of roses from the hands of a hundred angels.

  I have beheld ere now, when dawn would pale,
    The eastern hemisphere's tint of roseate sheen,
    And all the opposite heaven one gem serene,
  And the uprising sun, beneath such powers
    Of vapory influence tempered, that the eye
    For a long space its fiery shield could try:

  E'en so, embosomed in a cloud of flowers,
    Which from those hands angelical upward played,
    And roseate all the car triumphal made,
  And showered a snow-white veil with olive bound,
    Appeared a Lady, green her mantle, name
    Could not describe her robe unless 't were flame.
  And mine own spirit, which the past had found
    Often within her presence, free from awe,
    And which could never from me trembling draw,
  And sight no knowledge giving me at this time,
    Through hidden virtue which from her came forth,
    Of ancient love felt now the potent worth.
  As soon as on my vision smote sublime
    The heavenly influence that, ere boyhood's days
    Had fled, had thrilled me and awoke my praise,
  Unto the leftward turned I, with that trust
    Wherewith a little child his mother seeks,
    When fear his steps controls, and tear-stained cheeks,

  To say to Vergil: "All my blood such gust
    Of feeling moves as doth man's bravery tame;
    I feel the traces of the ancient flame."
            Wilstach's Translation, Paradiso, Canto XXX.

THE EXQUISITE BEAUTY OF BEATRICE.

While Dante and Beatrice rose from the Heaven of Primal Motion to the Empyrean, the poet turned
his dazzled eyes from the heavens, whose sight he could no longer bear, to the contemplation
of Beatrice.

    Wherefore my love, and loss of other view,
    Me back to Beatrice and her homage drew.
  If what of her hath been already said
    Were in one single eulogy grouped, 't would ill
    Her meed of merit at this moment fill.

  The beauty which in her I now beheld
    B'yond mortals goes; her Maker, I believe,
    Hath power alone its fulness to receive.
  Myself I own by obstacles stronger spelled
    Than in his labored theme was ever bard
    Whose verses, light or grave, brought problems hard;
  For, as of eyes quelled by the sun's bright burst,
    E'en so the exquisite memory of that smile
    Doth me of words and forming mind beguile.

  Not from that day when on this earth I first
    Her face beheld, up to this moment, song
    Have I e'er failed to strew her path along,
  But now I own my limping numbers lame;
    An artist sometimes finds his powers surpassed,
    And mine succumbs to beauty's lance at last.
  And I must leave her to a greater fame
    Than any that my trumpet gives, which sounds,
    Now, hastening notes, which mark this labor's bounds.
            Wilstach's Translation, Paradiso, Canto XXX.

THE ORLANDO FURIOSO.

Ludovico Ariosto, author of the Orlando Furioso was born in Reggio, Italy, Sept. 8, 1474. In
1503 he was taken into the service of the Cardinal Hippolito d'Este, and soon after began the
composition of the Orlando Furioso, which occupied him for eleven years. It was published in
1516, and brought him immediate fame. Ariosto was so unkindly treated by his patron that he
left him and entered the service of the cardinal's brother, Alfonso, Duke of Ferrara. By him
he was appointed governor of a province, in which position he repressed the banditti by whom
it was infested, and after a successful administration of three years, returned to Ferrara
to reside. The latter part of his life was spent in writing comedies and satires, and in revising
the Orlando Furioso. He died in Ferrara, June 6, 1533.

