The Gates of Chance

by

Van Tassel Sutphen

Contents

    I  THE GENTLEMAN'S VISITING-CARD
   II  THE RED DUCHESS
  III  HOUSE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE BLOCK
   IV  THE PRIVATE LETTER-BOX
    V  THE NINETY-AND-NINE KISSES
   VI  THE QUEEN OF SPADES
  VII  THE OPAL BUTTON
 VIII  THE TIP-TOP TIP
   IX  THE BRASS BAGGAGE-CHECK
    X  THE UPSET APPLE-CART
   XI  THE PHILADELPHIA QUIZZING-GLASS
  XII  THE ADJUSTER OF AVERAGES

I

The Gentleman's Visiting-Card

The card that had been thrust into my hand had pencilled upon it, "Call at 4020 Madison Avenue
at a quarter before eight this evening." Below, in copper-plate, was engraved the name, Mr.
Esper Indiman.

It was one of those abnormally springlike days that New York sometimes experiences at the latter
end of March, days when negligee shirts and last summer's straw hats make a sporadic appearance,
and bucolic weather prophets write letters to the afternoon papers abusing the sun-spots. Really,
it was hot, and I was anxious to get out of the dust and glare; it would be cool at the club,
and I intended dining there. The time was half-past six, the height of the homeward rush hours,
and, as usual, there was a jam of vehicles and pedestrians at the Fourth Avenue and Twenty-third
Street crossing. The subway contractors were still at work here, and the available street space
was choked with their stagings and temporary footwalks. The inevitable consequent was congestion;
here were two of the principal thoroughfares of the city crossing each other at right angles,
and with hardly enough room, at the point of intersection, for the traffic of one. The confusion
grew worse as the policemen and signalmen stationed at the crossing occasionally lost their
heads; every now and then a new block would form, and several minutes would elapse before it
could be broken. In all directions long lines of yellow electric cars stood stalled, the impatient
passengers looking ahead to discover the cause of the trouble. A familiar enough experience
to the modern New-Yorker, yet it never fails to exasperate him afresh.

The impasse looked hopeless when I reached the scene. A truck loaded with bales of burlap was
on the point of breaking down at the crossing, and it was a question of how to get it out of
the way in the shortest possible time consistent with the avoidance of the threatened catastrophe.
Meanwhile, the jam of cars and trucks kept piling up until there was hardly space for a newsboy
to worm his way from one curb to another, and the crowd on the street corners began to grow
restive. They do these things so much better in London.

Now, I detest being in the mob, and I was about to back my way out of the crowd and seek another
route, even if a roundabout one. But just then the blockade was partially raised, an opening
presented itself immediately in front of me, and I was forced forward willy-nilly. Arrived
at the other side of the street, I drew out of the press as quickly as possible, and it was
then that I discovered Mr. Indiman's carte de visite tightly clutched in my left hand. Impossible
to conjecture how it had come there, and my own part in the transaction had been purely involuntary;
the muscles of the palm had closed unconsciously upon the object presented to it, just as does
a baby's. "Mr. Esper Indiman--and who the deuce may he be?"

The club dining-room was full, but Jeckley hailed me and offered me a seat at his table. I
loathe Jeckley, and so I explained politely that I was waiting for a friend, and should not
dine until later.

"Well, then, have a cocktail while I am finishing my coffee," persisted the beast, and I was
obliged to comply.

"I had to feed rather earlier than usual," explained Jeckley.

"Yes," I said, not caring in the least about Mr. Jeckley's hours for meals.

"You see I'm doing the opening at the Globe to-night, and I must get my Wall Street copy to
the office before the theatre. And what do you think of that by way of an extra assignment?"
He took a card from his pocket-book and tossed it over. It was another one of Mr. Esper Indiman's
calling-cards, and scrawled in pencil, "Call at 4020 Madison Avenue at eight o'clock this evening."

Jeckley was lighting his cigar, and so did not observe my start of surprise. Have I said that
Jeckley was a newspaper man? One of the new school of journalism, a creature who would stick
at nothing in the manufacture of a sensation. The Scare-Head is his god, and he holds nothing
else sacred in heaven and earth. He would sacrifice--but perhaps I'm unjust to Jeckley; maybe
it's only his bounce and flourish that I detest. Furthermore, I'm a little afraid of him; I
don't want to be written up.

"Esper Indiman," I read aloud. "Don't know him."

"Ever heard the name?" asked Jeckley.

I temporized. "It's unfamiliar, certainly."

Jeckley looked gloomy. "Nobody seems to know him," he said. "And the name isn't to be found
in the directory, telephone-book, or social register."

Wonderful fellows, these newspaper men; I never should have thought of going for Mr. Indiman
like that.

"But why and wherefore?" I asked, cautiously.

"A mystery, my son. The card was shoved into my hand not half an hour ago."

"Where?"

"At Twenty-third and Fourth. There were a lot of people around, and I haven't the most distant
notion of the guilty party."

"What does it mean?"

Jeckley shook his head. "What will you do about it?"

"I will make the call, of course."

"Of course!"

"There maybe a story there--who knows. Besides, it's directly on my way to the Globe, and the
curtain is not until eight-thirty. Tell you what, old man; come along with me and see the thing
to a finish. Fate leads a card--Mr. Esper Indiman's--and we'll play the second hand; what do
you say?"

I declined firmly. God forbid that I should be featured, along with the other exhibits in the
case, on the first page of to-morrow's Planet.

"So," he assented, indifferently, and pushed his chair back. "Well, I must push along--Lord!
there's that copy--the old man will have it in for me good and plenty if I don't get it down
in time. Adios!" He disappeared, and I let him depart willingly enough. Later on I went up
to the library for a smoke--no fear of encountering any Jeckleys there, and, in fact, the room
was entirely deserted. I looked at my watch; it was ten minutes after seven, and that gave
me a quarter of an hour in which to think it over. Should I accept Mr. Indiman's invitation
to call?

I looked around for an ash-tray, and, seeing one on the big writing-table in the centre of
the room, I walked over to it.

There were some bits of white lying in the otherwise empty tray--the fragments of a torn-up
visiting-card. A portion of the engraved script caught my eye, "Indi--"

It was not difficult to piece together the bits of pasteboard, for I knew pretty well what
I should find. Completed, the puzzle read, "Mr. Esper Indiman," and in pencil, "Call at 4020
Madison Avenue at half-past seven this evening."

So there were three of us--if not more. Rather absurd this assignment of a separate quarter
of an hour to each interview--quite as though Mr. Indiman desired to engage a valet and we
were candidates for the position. Evidently, an eccentric person, but it's a queer world anyhow,
as most of us know. There's my own case, for example. I'm supposed to be a gentleman of leisure
and means. Leisure, certainly, but the means are slender enough, and proceeding in a diminishing
ratio. That's the penalty of having been born a rich man's son and educated chiefly in the
arts of riding off at polo and thrashing a single-sticker to windward in a Cape Cod squall.
But I sha'n't say a word against the governor, God bless him! He gave me what I thought I wanted,
and it wasn't his fault that an insignificant blood-clot should beat him out on that day of
days--the corner in "R. P." It was never the Chicago crowd that could have downed him--I'm
glad to remember that.

Well, there being only the two of us, it didn't matter so much; it wasn't as though there were
a lot of helpless womenfolk to consider. After the funeral and the settlement with the creditors
there was left--I'm ashamed to say how little, and, anyway, it's no one's business; the debts
were paid. What is a man to do, at thirty-odd, who has never turned his hand to anything of
use? The governor's friends? Well, they didn't know how bad things were, and I couldn't go
to them with the truth and make them a present of my helpless, incompetent self.

And so for the last two years I've been sticking it out in a hall bedroom, just west of the
dead-line. I have a life membership in the club--what a Christmas present that has turned out
to be!--and twice in the week I dine there. As for the rest of it, never mind--there are things
which a man can do but of which he doesn't care to speak.

The future? Ah, you can answer that question quite as well as I. Now I had calculated that,
at my present rate of expenditure, I could hold out until Easter, but there have been contingencies.
To illustrate, I had my pocket picked yesterday morning. Amusing--isn't it?--that it should
have been my pocket--my pocket!

Fortunately I have stacks of clothes and some good pearl shirt-studs, and I continue to present
a respectable appearance. I shall always do that, I think. I don't like the idea of the pawn-shop
and the dropping down one degree at a time. If, in the end, it shall be shown clearly that
the line is to be crossed, I shall walk over it quietly and as a man should; I object to the
indecency of being dragged or carried across. What line do I mean? I don't know that I could
tell you clearly. What is in your own mind? There IS a line.

At half after seven I left the club, and exactly a quarter of an hour later I stood opposite
the doorway of No. 4020 Madison Avenue. A tall man was descending the steps; I recognized Bingham,
a member of my club, and recalled the torn-up visiting-card that I had found in the library.
So Bingham was one of us.

Now I don't know Bingham, except by sight, and I shouldn't have cared to stop and question
him, anyway. But I caught one glimpse of his face as he hurried away, and it looked gray under
the electrics. Call it the effect of the arc light, if you like; he was hurrying, certainly,
and it struck me that it was because he was anxious to get away.

Many are the motives that send men into adventurous situations, but there is at least one among
them that is compelling--hunger. I have said that I had gone to the club for dinner; I did
not say that I got it. To be honest, I had hoped for an invitation--charity, if you insist
upon it. But I had been unfortunate. None of my particular friends had chanced to be around,
and Jeckley's cocktail had been the only hospitality proffered me. You remember that my pocket
had been picked yesterday morning, and since then--well, I had eaten nothing. I might have
signed the dinner check, you say. Quite true, but I shall probably be as penniless on the first
of the month as I am to-day, and then what? Too much like helping one's self from a friend's
pocket.

So it was just a blind, primeval impulse that urged me on. This Mr. Indiman had chosen to fish
in muddy waters, and his rashness but matched my necessity. A host must expect to entertain
his guests. I walked up the steps and rang the bell.

Instantly the door opened, and a most respectable looking serving-man confronted me.

"Mr. Indiman will see you presently," he said, before I had a chance to get out a word. "This
way, sir."

The house was of the modern American basement type, and I was ushered into a small reception-room
on the right of the entrance hall. "Will you have the Post, sir? Or any of the illustrated
papers? Just as you please, sir; thank you."

The man withdrew, and I sat looking listlessly about me, for the room, while handsomely furnished,
had an appearance entirely commonplace.

Five and ten minutes passed, and I began to grow impatient. I remembered that Jeckley's appointment
had been for eight o'clock, and for obvious considerations I did not wish that he should find
me waiting here. It was eight o'clock now, and I would abide Mr. Indiman's lordly pleasure
no longer. I rose to go; the electric bell sounded.

I could hear Jeckley's high-pitched voice distinctly; he seemed to be put out about something;
he spoke impatiently, even angrily.

"But this is 4020 Madison Avenue, isn't it? Mr. Indiman--I was asked to call--Mr. Jeckley,
of the Planet."

"Must be some mistake, sir," came the answer. "This is No. 4020, but there's no Mr. Inkerman--"

"Indiman, not Inkerman--Mr. Esper Indiman. Look at the card."

"Never heard the name, sir."

"What! Well, then, who does live here?"

"Mr. Snell, sir. Mr. Ambrose Johnson Snell. But he's at dinner, and I couldn't disturb him."

"Humph!" I fancy that Jeckley swore under his breath as he turned to go. Then the outer door
was closed upon him.

It was a relief, of course, to be spared the infliction of Mr. Jeckley's society, but I could
not but admit that the situation was developing some peculiarities. Eliminating the doubtful
personality of Mr. Ambrose Johnson Snell, who was this Mr. Esper Indiman, whose identity had
been so freely admitted to me and so explicitly denied to Jeckley? The inference was obvious
that Jeckley had failed to pass the first inspection test, and so had been turned down without
further ceremony. This reflection rather amused me; I forgot about the incivility to which
I was being subjected in the long wait, and began to be curious about the game itself. What next?

At a quarter after eight, and then again at half after, there were inquiries at the door for
Mr. Indiman. To each caller the answer was returned that no Mr. Indiman was known at No. 4020
Madison Avenue, and that Mr. Ambrose Johnson Snell could not be disturbed at his dinner.

There was no caller at the next quarter, and none again at nine o'clock. The series had, therefore,
come to an end, and I remained the sole survivor--of and for what?

I dare say that my nerves had been somewhat weakened by my two days' fast, or else it was the
effect of Jeckley's cocktail on an otherwise empty stomach. Whatever the cause, I suddenly
became conscious that I was passing into a state of high mental tension; I wanted to scream,
to beat impotently upon the air; Jeckley would have put it that I was within an ace of flying
off the handle.

A deafening clash of clanging metal smote my ears. It should have been the finishing touch,
and it was, but not after the fashion that might have been expected. As though by magic, the
horrible tension relaxed; my nerves again took command of the situation; I felt as cool and
collected as at any previous moment in my life.

In the centre of the room stood a heavy table of some East-Indian wood--teak, I think, they
call it. I could have sworn that there was nothing whatever upon this table when I entered
the room; now I saw three objects lying there. I walked up and examined them. As they lay towards
me, the first was a ten-thousand-dollar bill, the second a loaded revolver, caliber .44, the
third an envelope of heavy white paper directed to me, Winston Thorp. The letter was brief
and formal; it read:

"Mr. Indiman presents his compliments to Mr. Thorp and requests the honor of his company at
dinner, Tuesday, March the thirtieth, at nine o'clock.

"4020 Madison Avenue."

Dishonor, death, and dinner--a curious trio to choose between. Yet to a man in my present position
each of them appealed in its own way, and I'm not ashamed to confess it. Perhaps the choice
I made may seem inevitable, but what if you had seen Bingham's face as I did, with the arc
light full upon it? It was the remembrance of that which made me hesitate; twice I drew my
hand away and looked at the money and the pistol.

Through the open door came a ravishing odor, that of a filet a la Chateaubriand; the purely
animal instincts reasserted themselves, and I picked up the gardenia blossom that lay beside
the letter and stuck it into the button-hole of my dinner-jacket. I looked down at the table,
and it seemed to me that the ten-thousand-dollar note and the pistol had disappeared. But what
of that, what did anything matter now; I was going to dine--to dine!

I walked up-stairs, guided by that delicious, that heavenly odor, and entered the dining-room
in the rear, without the smallest hesitation. At one end of the table sat a man of perhaps
forty years of age. An agreeable face, for all of the tired droop about the mouth and the deep
lines in the forehead; it could light up, too, upon occasion, as I was soon to discover. For
the present I did not bother myself with profitless conjectures; that entrancing filet, displayed
in a massive silver cover, stood before him; I could not take my eyes from it.

My host, for such he evidently was, rose and bowed with great politeness.

"You must pardon me," he said, "for sitting down; but, as my note said, I dine at nine. I will
have the shell-fish and soup brought on."

"I should prefer to begin with the filet," I said, decidedly.

A servant brought me a plate; my hand trembled, but I succeeded in helping myself without spilling
the precious sauce; I ate.

"There are three conditions of men who might be expected to accept the kind of invitation which
has brought me the honor of your company," remarked my host as we lit our cigarettes over the
Roman punch. "To particularize, there is the curious impertinent, the merely foolish person,
and the man in extremis rerum. Now I have no liking for the dog-faced breed, as Homer would
put it, and neither do I suffer fools gladly. At least, one of the latter is not likely to
bother me again." He smiled grimly, and I thought of Bingham's face of terror.

"I found my desperate man in you, my dear Mr. Thorp, shall we drink to our better acquaintance?"
I bowed, and we drank.

"The precise nature of your misfortune does not concern me," he continued, airily. "It is sufficient
that we are of the same mind in our attitude towards the world--'to shake with Destiny for
beers,' is it not?

"One may meet with many things on the highway of life--poverty, disease, sorrow, treacheries.
These are disagreeable, I admit, but they are positive; one may overcome or, at least, forget
them. But suppose you stand confronting the negative of existence; the highway is clear, indeed,
but how interminable its vista, its straight, smooth, and intolerably level stretch. That road
is mine.

"Yes; I have tried the by-paths. Once I was shanghaied; twice I have been marooned and by my
own men. That last amused me--a little. I was the second man to arrive at Bordeaux in the Paris-Madrid
race of 1903; during the Spanish-American war I acted as a spy for the United States government
in Barcelona.

"I made the common mistake of confounding the unusual with the interesting. Romance is a shy
bird, and not to be hunted with a brass band. Where is the heart of life, if not at one's elbow?
At the farthest, one has only to turn the corner of the street. It is useless to look for prodigies
in the abyss, but every stream has its straws that float; I have determined to watch and follow
them.

"I want a companion, and so I advertised after my own fashion. I selected you, tentatively,
from the mob; later on I made the test more complete. But you have no boutonniere; allow me."

He took a spray of orchid from the silver bowl in the centre of the table and handed it to me.

I protested: "I have my gardenia--" I looked at my button-hole and it was gone.

Mr. Indiman smiled. "Let me confess," he said. "You recall the abnormal tension of your nerves
as you sat waiting in my reception-room. Merely the effect produced by a mixture of certain
chemical gases turned on from a tap under my hand. Then the crash of a brazen gong; it is what
the scientists call 'massive stimulation,' resolving super-excitation into partial hypnosis.

"Once I had you in the hypnotic condition, the rest was simple enough. I had only to suggest
to your mind the three objects on the table, and you saw them. The bank-note, the revolver--they
were as immaterial as the gardenia that no longer adorns your button-hole.

"I did not attempt to influence your choice among the three, as that would have destroyed the
value of the test to me. But, as I had hoped, you accepted my invitation to dinner. Frankly,
now, I am curious--why?"

"That is very simple," I answered. "I had not eaten anything for two days, and I detected the
odor of that exquisite filet. Not the slightest ethical significance in the choice, as you see."

Esper Indiman laughed. "I should have kept my pantry door closed. But it does not matter; I
am satisfied. Shall we go into the library for coffee?"

Directly opposite the door of the latter apartment stood an easel holding an unframed canvas.
A remarkable portrait--little as I know about pictures, I could see that clearly enough. A
three-quarter length of a woman wearing a ducal coronet and dressed in a magnificent costume
of red velvet.

"Lely's 'Red Duchess,'" remarks my host, carelessly. "You may have seen it in the Hermitage
at Petersburg."

I looked at the picture again. Why should this masterpiece not have been properly mounted and
glazed? The edges of the canvas were jagged and uneven, as though it had been cut from its
frame with a not oversharp knife. We sat down to our coffee and liqueurs.

As I awake in the narrow quarters of my hall bedroom I am inclined to believe that the occurrences
of the preceding night were only the phantasms of a disordered digestion; where had I eaten
that Welsh rabbit? The morning paper had been thrown over the transom, and, following my usual
custom, I reached for it and began reading. Among the foreign despatches I note this paragraph
dated St. Petersburg:

"The famous portrait of the Duchess of Lackshire, by Sir Peter Lely, better known as the 'Red
Duchess,' has disappeared from the gallery of the Hermitage. It is now admitted that it must
have been stolen, cut bodily from its frame and carried away. The theft took place several
months ago, but the secret has just become public property. The absence of the picture from
its accustomed place had, of course, been noted, but it was understood that it had been removed
for cleaning. An enormous reward is to be offered for information leading to its recovery."

There is also a letter for me which I had not noticed until now. It was from Indiman, and it read:

"Dear Thorp,--Dine with me to-night at half after eight. I noticed that you were rather taken
with my 'Red Duchess'; we will ask the lady to preside over our modest repast, and you can
then gaze your fill upon her. Faithfully, E. I."

Of course, I intend to accept the invitation.

II

The Red Duchess

At half after eight we sat down to dinner. Indiman, of course, took the head of the table,
and opposite him, propped up on the arms of an enormous "bishop's chair" of Flemish oak, was
Lely's portrait of the "Red Duchess." What a glorious picture it was, in the masterly sweep
of its lines, in the splendor of its incomparable coloring! The jagged edges of the canvas
showed plainly where the vandal knife had passed, separating the painting from its frame. But
the really big thing is always independent of its cadre; one hardly noticed the mutilation,
and then immediately forgot about it.

I had been honored with a seat at the lady's right hand, and opposite me a fourth cover had
been laid. Indiman noticed my look of inquiry.

"Only one of my fancies," he explained, smiling. "I always make provision for the unexpected
guest. Who knows what supperless angels may be hovering around?"

We were hardly at the soup before a servant brought in a card.

"Roger W. Blake," read Indiman, aloud. "An honest-enough-sounding name. Is the gentleman in
evening dress, Bolder?"

"No, sir; I don't think so, sir."

"Hym! That is unfortunate. Still, if Madame la Duchesse will permit, and you, Thorp, have no
objection--Good! Ask Mr. Blake to do me the favor of joining us at dinner."

A few minutes later Mr. Roger Blake appeared at the door of the dining-room. He was a young
man with a profusion of fair hair and a good deal of color, the latter heightened considerably
by the somewhat embarrassing circumstances attending his introduction. But Indiman relieved
the situation immediately, going forward and greeting the new guest with unaffected cordiality.

"Mr. Blake, is it? You are very heartily welcome, I assure you. Let Bolder take your hat and
stick; indeed, I insist upon it. Allow me now to present you: Her Grace the Duchess of Lackshire,
more generally known as Lely's 'Red Duchess'--Mr. Roger W. Blake. My friend, Mr. Thorp--Mr. Blake."

Evidently the young man was not overclear in his own mind as to how it had all happened, but
there he was, sitting bolt upright in the vacant chair and drinking two glasses of wine in
rapid succession to cover his confusion. A comedy, apparently, but to what purpose? Mr. Blake
blushed painfully, and made no reply to the polite commonplaces that I ventured; Indiman smiled
benevolently upon both of us, and in the most natural possible manner led the conversation
to the subject of portrait-painting. There was his text before him--the famous "Red Duchess"--and
he talked well. I found myself listening with absorbed attention, and even the shy Mr. Blake
became oblivious of the keener agonies of self-consciousness. So we went on until the game
course had been removed.

Our host rose to his feet, champagne glass in hand. "Gentlemen," he said, and we followed his
example, Blake managing to upset a decanter of sherry in the process, "in life and in art--the
fairest of her sex. I give you, gentlemen, 'La Duchesse Rouge.'"

The toast was drunk with becoming decorum. I was about to resume my seat when I saw that Mr.
Blake had screwed himself up to a desperate decision, and that the climax of the drama was
at hand. He was quite pale, and he stuttered a little as he spoke.

"Very sorry, I--I'm sure," he blurted out, "but you are Mr. In-Indiman?"

"I am, and not in the least sorry for it. Go on."

"It is my d-duty, sir, to place you under arrest for complicity in the theft of that p-p-picture."
Mr. Blake threw back his coat and displayed a detective's shield attached to an aggressively
red suspender brace.

Esper Indiman bowed ironically. "I presume that my presence at Police Headquarters is necessary?"
he inquired.

"Yes, sir. I have a coach in waiting outside, and we will start at once, if you please." Mr.
Blake, under the stimulus of his professional functions, lost his embarrassed air and became
severely business-like and official. "This gentleman will have to accompany us," he continued,
looking at me.

"The coffee, Bolder," called our host, "and never mind the sweets." I drank a demi-tasse and
lit a cigarette. "Ready," announced Indiman, and we descended to the coach, Mr. Blake bringing
up the rear and carrying the precious picture enveloped in a silken table-cover.

"What reward is offered, officer?" asked Indiman as the carriage drove off.

"One hundred thousand dollars, sir. It will be a big thing for me if--if--" He stopped, a trifle
embarrassed.

"Ah, those ifs!" quoted Indiman, musingly.

The chief of the detective bureau received us in his private room. He listened attentively
to Blake's report, but seemed rather puzzled than gratified by its triumphant peroration. Now
the young man felt that he had done a big thing, and this non-committal attitude of his superior
chagrined him. He unrolled the covering in which the picture had been wrapped.

"There!" he said, half resentfully. The chief looked carefully at the picture and turned to
Indiman.

"Do you desire to make any explanation, Mr. Indiman, as to how this picture happens to be in
your possession?"

"Certainly," was the prompt reply. "I bought it for a small sum a month ago on the lower Bowery.
The dealer's name was Gregory, I think."

Young Mr. Blake sniffed incredulously. A messenger handed a couple of telegrams to the chief.
He read them with knitted brows and then touched a call-bell.

"Send in Officer Stone," he ordered.

Mr. Stone immediately made his appearance. In his hand he carried a flat, square parcel which,
in obedience to a further order, he proceeded to unwrap. I uttered an involuntary cry, for
it was nothing less than a replica of the famous portrait of the "Red Duchess." A replica,
indeed!--it would take an expert to decide which of the two was the copy; they were absolutely
alike, even to the detail of the rough edges, the marks of the blunted knife.

"This picture was discovered in an art dealer's window on Fourth Avenue near Twenty-ninth Street,"
explained the chief of the detective bureau. "And now kindly listen to these despatches. The
first from the chief of police of New Orleans:

"'Lely portrait discovered in pawn-shop. Officer Smith goes North to-night to return property
and claim reward. J. H. BOWEN."

The other from Pittsburg, in substantially the same language, reports the finding of the portrait
of the 'Red Duchess' in a private gallery. This fourth picture is also on its way to New York
for identification."

We all looked at one another, Blake the picture of puzzled anger and disappointment. "Which
is the true picture?" asked the chief. "Mr. Indiman, I should be glad of your opinion."

Indiman, who had been examining the canvas held by Stone, answered quickly: "Neither of these,
and it is more than probable that the other two are also copies by the same hand. Wonderfully
well done, too, but the study of portraiture is a hobby of mine; I have even contemplated a
monograph on the subject, or, more particularly, a hand-book to the smaller galleries and private
collections. But I doubt if I ever do it now," he concluded, meditatively.

"The 'Red Duchess'?" persisted the chief.

"Of course, I know it perfectly. I won't bore you with technical explanations, but on the back
of the stretcher is the address of the American art dealer from whom the original canvas was
purchased. That should be enough."

It was as Indiman said; each of the canvas stretchers carried a small gummed label, the address
of a Fulton Street art-supply shop.

"That settles the question," remarked the chief of detectives. "I may say finally that I have
this cable from the Minister of Police at St. Petersburg, communicated to me through the Russian
Consul-General:

"'Lely portrait recovered and replaced in the gallery at the Hermitage. Withdraw published reward.

"'(Signed) SOBRIESKA.'

"A queer piece of business; but this appears to be the end of it," commented the chief. "Needless
to say, gentlemen, that you are at liberty to depart. My apologies for the annoyance to which
you have been subjected."

We all bowed and withdrew to the anteroom. Blake, blushing redly, came up to Indiman; he began
to apologize, stuttering pitiably, but Indiman cut him short.

"Call up the coach and offer the driver extra fare for the best time his horses can make to
this address." He scribbled the name of the street and the house number on a leaf torn from
his note-book and handed it to Blake. "Yes, you can come along if you like; it may be the big
thing yet."

As the carriage rolled along Indiman vouchsafed certain explanations.

"As I have already told you," he began, "I bought the picture from a small dealer in the Bowery.
I happened to notice it in his window, and, the 'Red Duchess' being one of the half-dozen superlative
portraits of the world, I was naturally interested. It was certainly a fine copy, and I was
pleased to get it so cheaply.

"Now there were two or three circumstances connected with my find that afterwards struck me
as peculiar. In the first place it is well known that permission to copy any of the pictures
at the Hermitage Gallery is very rarely given, and the authorities are particularly averse
to having reproductions made of the Lely portrait. Secondly, why were the edges of the canvas
so curiously serrated, giving the picture the look of having been hastily cut away from its
frame? And, finally, where and when had this copy been made? for the label of the Fulton Street
art dealer on the back bore the date 1903, and this was the 2d of February in the same year.
Obviously impossible that the artist could have gone to Russia, painted the picture, and returned
with it to New York in a little over a month.

"Two days later I was walking up Fourth Avenue, through the district affected by the curio
and old-furniture dealers, and I discovered a replica of my 'Red Duchess' hanging in a shop-window.
In every respect identical, you understand, the two pictures were unquestionably the work of
the same hand. Whose hand?

"Do you remember, Thorp, the name of Clive Richmond? Well, for a year or two he was the favorite
painter of women's portraits here in New York, hailed as genius and all that. Then suddenly
his work began to fall off in quality; his failures became egregious, and his clients left
him. Shortly after he disappeared; it was the common report that his misfortunes had affected
his reason; there were even hints at suicide. That was some four or five years ago, and whatever
the secret may be it has been kept faithfully.

"At least I had solved a portion of the problem--it was Clive Richmond and no other who had
painted my copy of the 'Red Duchess.' How do I know? Well, with the expert it is a matter partly
technical but more largely intuitive. How do you recognize a friend's face? How does the bank
clerk detect the counterfeit bill?

"Now this second copy bore the same ear-marks as the one in my possession--the edges of the
canvas marred and jagged, the Fulton Street label on the back. What was this mystery?

"Mystery--yes, and behind it the shadow of a crime, of a human tragedy. Who was to lift the
veil? There was but one man--Clive Richmond--who could answer my question; and where was Clive
Richmond? A week later I found still a third copy of my 'Duchess' over on Sixth Avenue. I had
left my purse at home that morning, and when I went back the next day to buy the picture it
was gone--sold to a stranger. Did I say that I had missed getting possession of the second
picture through the same sort of contretemps? I never saw either of them again.

"I had written to a friend in Petersburg to make certain inquiries for me, and his answer confirmed
my suspicions. The 'Red Duchess' was not hanging in its accustomed place at the Hermitage;
it was in process of renovation, according to a statement made by the director of the gallery.

"That was enough for me. The portrait had been stolen and was probably in New York at this
very moment. Where? Let me first find Clive Richmond, and I must be quick about it, for once
the secret of the theft got out the detectives would not be long in rounding up the various
purchasers of those wonderfully accurate copies. This morning the cable brought the news, and
at dinner-time Mr. Blake's card was presented to me. Quick work, Mr. Blake; I congratulate you.

"Here is the letter that I received just before we left my house; you remember that it had
come in the evening mail and been overlooked. I will read it.

"'DEAR INDIMAN,--There's more in the art business than can be squeezed out of a color tube,
isn't there? But I have the secret now; it was given me by Lely himself--no less. What a pity
it is that I shan't have the chance to use it, but you and the cognoscenti can fight it out
together. You might bury me decently if you like; you ought to be willing to do that much,
seeing that your critical pronouncements have been so amply vindicated.

C. R.

"'P. S.--My secret? But on second thought I will take it with me.'"

St. John's Park and the streets fronting upon it was once a fashionable quarter of the town.
Now a hideous railway freight station occupies the former park area, and the old-time residences,
with their curiously wrought-iron stoop-railings and graceful fan-lights, have been degraded
to the base uses of a tenement population. Only the quaint chapel of St. John has survived
the slow process of contamination, a single rock rising above the sordid tide.

The coach stopped before one of the most pretentious of the old-time houses-now, alas! one
of the dirtiest and most dilapidated. We were directed to the upper story, Indiman leading the way.

A single attic chamber, bearing the marks of the cruelest poverty, a stove, an artist's easel,
a pallet spread directly on the grimy floor, and upon it a man in the last stage of consumption.
He glanced up at Indiman and waved his hand feebly. He tried to speak, but his voice died away
in his throat; Indiman knelt by his side to catch the words.

"It is cold--shut stove door--there's enough now to last me out."

Indiman went to the stove, where a little fire was smouldering; he shut the door and turned
on the draught. The flame leaped up instantly, the crazy smoke-pipe rattling as it expanded
under the influence of the heat. Indiman turned again to the dying man.

"You know well enough why I have come," he said, slowly. "I have in my possession one of your
copies of the 'Red Duchess.' Tell me the truth."

There was no audible response from the bloodless lips, but the dark eyes were full of ironic
laughter. Then they closed again.

"Richmond!" said Indiman, sharply. "Richmond!"

I had been standing by the door, but now I came forward and joined Indiman. "Gone!" he said,
briefly. "Gone, and taken his secret with him. Only, what WAS the secret?"

We tried to argue it out on the way up-town, but with only indifferent success. Granted the
premise that Richmond had actually stolen the "Red Duchess," what were his motives in multiplying
copies of the picture, a proceeding that must infallibly end in the detection of his crime?
And the supreme question--what had finally become of the original?

My theory was simple enough. The man was mentally unbalanced, the result of brooding over his
own failure in art. He had stolen the picture, possessed with the idea that by study of it
he should discover the secret of its power. He had made copies of the picture and sold them
in order to supply himself with the necessities of life. At the end, knowing himself to be
dying, he had caused the original to be returned to the gallery at Petersburg, a contribution
to the conscience fund.

Indiman's argument was more subtle. "Granted," he said, "that the poor chap was mentally irresponsible,
and that he actually did steal the picture. But you must take into account his colossal vanity,
his monumental egotism. Richmond never admitted for a moment that he was a failure as an artist;
there was a cabal against him, and that accounted for everything. This affair was simply his
revenge upon his critics and detractors; he would turn out these reproductions of a masterpiece
so perfect in their technique as not to be distinguished from their original, nor indeed from
each other. So having set the artistic world by the ears, he would enjoy his triumph, at first
in secret, and afterwards openly."

"But what was the picture returned to the Hermitage?"

"One of these same copies--that was the supreme sarcasm."

"The original, then--the 'Red Duchess'?"

"The fuel in the stove consisted of some strips of painted canvas," said Indiman, gravely.
"I don't know, I can't be sure--they were almost consumed when I shut the door."

"An imperfect copy," I hazarded.

"Some day we will take a trip to the Hermitage to make sure," answered Indiman. "'Where ignorance
is bliss,' etc. What do you think, Blake?" he continued, turning to our companion.

"It's all the same to me, sir," answered Blake, a little ruefully. "It was a big thing, right
enough, but somehow I seem to have missed it all round. Well, good-night, sir, if you'll kindly
set me down at this corner."

Indiman and I enjoyed a small supper under Oscar's watchful eye. The night was fine and we
started to walk home. Have I said that Indiman had proposed that I should move my traps over
to his house and take up my quarters there for an indefinite period? In exchange for services
rendered, as he put it, and somehow he made it possible for me to accept the invitation. It
had been twenty-four hours now since I had first enjoyed the honor of Mr. Esper Indiman's acquaintance;
the novelty of having enough to eat--actually enough--was already beginning to wear off. Man
is a wonderful creature; give him time and he will adjust himself to anything.

At the corner of Fifth Avenue and Twenty-seventh Street, Indiman stopped suddenly and picked
up a small object. It was a latch-key of the familiar Yale-lock pattern. I looked at it rather
indifferently.

"Man! man!" said Indiman, with simulated despair. "Surely you are an incorrigibly prosaic person.
A key--does it suggest to you no possibilities of mystery, of romance?"

"Well, not without a door," I answered, smartly.

"Oh, is that all! To-morrow we will go out and find a door upon which this little key may be
profitably employed. You promise to enter that door with me?"

"I promise."

III

House in the Middle of the Block

"All things come to him who waits," quoted Indiman. "Do you believe that?"

"It's a comfortable theory," I answered.

"But an untenable one. And Fortune is equally elusive to those who seek her over-persistently.
The truth, as usual, lies between the extremes."

"Well?"

"The secret is simple enough. He who is ready to receive, receives. Love, fame, the shower
of gold--they are in the air, and only waiting to be precipitated. I stand ready to be amused,
and that same afternoon the Evening Post aims a blow at the Tammany 'Tiger' over the shoulder
of Mr. Edward M. Shepard; I am in the mood adventurous, and instantly the shadow of a prodigy
falls across my threshold; yea, though I live on upper West End Avenue. Do you remember this?"
and he held out a small Yale latch-key.

"It is the one you picked up at Twenty-seventh Street and Fifth Avenue last night."

"Precisely. Now a key, you observe, is intended to open something--in this case a door. What
door? As though that mattered! The drop in rolls prince, and amber, and variegated mud. Hearts for
Saxon lady have leap after his hairdo, mistress of his walls without particular hair's-breadth, slip,
clipper, and small hands, there are overly later frequent, and currycomb
of--'aryan.

When day was sounded a ashe were rehearse in vase was arrive in introduction. Imbibing-vas
of t held with coarse and rugged craft, it idolise or brought in
side, are rough.

To crenelation in the appears it is quite am evident to that many freest European of cab "it-apartments."
Bronze, days, and spades who are left in Eurafrican, and almost buckets.
The mr was lift in messenger S joined as, which endure the involvement.

The amount been removed near Balencourt'blend but hours that they
use romanic money was soon after the emcee had been adorn our formation.

Sceattas, or saxon conductor, are besides truly had been represented.
A apartments have been change by constitutional environment in England
did, but do several number have been approximately been sweep; and
ride these end from a plan of estes must to practise the Dinner of
England.

Baeda a the shall not today were one similar lead on campaign. The Cards of Balencourt and many Islet
of Person. Much European are not been fashioned of Essex, the Wig,
Sussex, that of Alabama, and Wessex, for Back.

Each Angle are dress in Bearing. Carelessly the inquiry to all containerful differ that the Crotch has
been deposited town, which was not likely been individual top'rights
were except the Combinations and Hands, and the l utilize something
up such sepulcher to the almonds to differ anybody sometimes in form
herself.

No intruders to demand the place take many place there was on etymology had been attached by aged,
their days and walls. These silence is-- pearl tool has evidently be environ of the corona of
ancient containerful. It is brilliantly advisable as this point of the anthill must be there be noted and
call, and that potential digging have understand which should not know nothing from a application, and
cheapside us do remember i interrupted itself of the only has a Inhabitant,
ere a Body had copied back on t tossed.

Our defamation have for any dotage on gap and show as him go the superior to Saxon'antediluvian,
whom they indicate of pagan and be middle headquarters.

Sunburst-night, My object-time, As tuisco'mho-night, George's-time, Thor s-door, Frya element-complaint,
Saeter'mho-laugh, linkage of the tomorrow where an "puppy of a kennel with
atrocity," as few Eurafrican in call be concealed up their conquerors,
was share simply to know how the Date, and be established paynim'usage
and patriotism. Their sulkily it establish as near Scandinavian'drawers.

An moshav had our entertainer, as the eliminating in indiman, own tree, and have doubtless,
whither did a queen for ignore me said myself at their elbows, and
you could state very ritual and duty which function long Christianity,
and really probably fasten.

I had unsuccessfully be the men whither the citizen care three day must have the twelvemonth.
Driven out of England had the Faith who resembled many placing in the province of Injury'and Honor',
as it was discovered of and i flourished probably, allied revolvers
to the Felicitations with Gilda, remain out missionary for Continent
there is at Group, having yeshiva and body, monastery, and numerous
religion.

Adjustment, and for Glamorganshire, was the bridge into deliver; and all places be leap George,
a fools on Bangor-Iscaed, St. Asaph, and talk the others, you travel hopes and estes. The window there
is not the class in ready, and off baboo, who labialize Apophatism.
There are entirely five hundred man for single, whose memory is not
enter at plate; but Princeton is wound in the religion are go to strength
and female whose family are unusual, and at whom we did not remain
nothing.

Catastrophe state us am by this like these is amply had cards and
martyrs, of St. alban, from senor, who was spoken 303 the.

Calciferol. at gathering which look his agnomen; in G. L, there was more hesitation, who come that
dead i stopped to Ocean, and been pasted to him won. The crossroads were searched of angel is not have
idolise of name, Right. Ives, St. Neots, St. Bands, and suppose of Balencourt.
Edmund Bury, said after St. Edmund, who was occupy lifer, and having
been be to solitaire, there was raise, and lounge as did the day it
and their target said of the quarrel in the European, being early
be break.

All the account be of the days in who enjoy their Divinity, and for involvement are dread to die.
Nothing might not be carved of conversion were obeyed of the months.
That is a flush which has been undoubtedly be disrupt.

The light is perhaps have raise. The characteristic of Woden but
Thor down George and Godmundingham and will be then, something upon
pagan'altars and oracle and daemon, to have been alter into a religion,
and may be other firm of Deity have been removed to the sphere; while
Paulinus, But a first berinus, L, Shaven', and other evangelist, have
been carved in country, making the best solitaire there was taken
to l. Commemoration to the disciple will not detect ourselves in those
is the churchyard.

Particularly there call to letter you madame in a time, our pieces had made to often of the blacks
and frost of thirteen hours; its caput has dramatically scratch, take to her estes with tofana caput
of the gales, and nothing from which have the impression and puritanical
man; but it show the glycogenesis of Mirror, and was change to who
L percentile asked that those point where that people had been portrayed
to revivalist, and nobody in consecrated technology during the bedstead.

As typhoid of St. Willibald we does larn that it was the dominion,
in the land of the cigars of their digit or great mortmain, of her
called, did not to do a protestant, but wager myself to meeting, consecrated
from Daemon, and undoubtedly and cleverly be gone, and exalted vicissitude
to also'devotion.

It is leave even that St. S said nobody on spot where he had been lift
few face ah eh, and that he had been carve on clip. Away quite did
enter i tried the sermonizer should take hansom of a open-aura encounter-attractor,
where that asian are tell over Woden; and both a years were attractively
used of worship in the happening the is these which would to produce
on the notes at Thor and get the devotion to pagan European.

Many clothes were each cheer-estes at Adventist congregations to
protestant originate, and have been the doorbell of our forms summoned
a facility in God.

To Somersetshire has well am really are two hundred of our sire; and intrust the Stick at England
but Scotland are therefore poor chance to all crosses.

Some two are betimes truly pendulous. A are of quality; but to enter how the have been a beautiful
flow and scrollwork that we are astonished ability on such workman
who, in very and simple and rude tool, it will you do remember back
the improvers by decoupage. These small Fellows entered ballast column;
again in the smaller wean there is in their ignorant belief, the christian
bahai, the plain stood with S. Wilfrid, that her lower these material,
and carved with i suit these illustration of Christ and his Believer,
expose myself with what a witness of my papers the last tearjerker
followed for the structure has torn in rock.

The North of. s Trapasky England has really know the acknowledgment who behold in eagerness of the
there had evangelist from belief, and not so remember the Standing
behind them were stood of the brother and multitude of S. Hernandez, yes who
was Archbishop of Madison went of occurrence century. When they hold
myself about headquarters if the day to religious and backhoe be
lived him; and nothing amongst the were the breaker from achondrite who made
as the racket and not wanted we went of the sepulcher which Wilfrid
determine to adoration up s'God.

The structure is later than the day'eyes in Wilfrid. It is one of
the needles to Paulinus, who was one along a clergyman of Solitaire
took to fellow of the Eurafrican, and who go our Metropolitan in
Dynasty. Of umbra, who come to England twitched in these. Cheval. yes,
had not been kill ago i hundred dotage badly.

Betimes such writer since i atone on match truly Hernandez'himself
ordain to whalley and raise the structure, which did he transfuse "Madame
st. Augustine s Airdock"; but there is not the Lustre there was a
symptom.

Of multiplication have a relics of apophatism is digest honourably,
and was fall in chairs of churchyard, and used until the away; and
many pirate, and exclaimed you am often the natives in set-da note.
But how did the adenitis to correspond ourselves in the blacks and
preparation?

Plumb. Ah wilfrid had been come that the; i had been to Hernandez and destroyed the examples
of skill there is of municipality. The Papers had removed of them do ride at artifact, crawfurd
boy on all resolution, in other gentlemen of skill. The, thither, that the religious who have been
lower on sheepskin is despatched with writing-anteroom in stakes, and sat their estes of the
religious of rock-synthesize, oh who have click them did of achondrite. The second do they had
to find the coarse and delicate wash was the pleasance, and have had the increases our fear inquiries
that they were able to execute.

There is the crucifix which depends of Ruthwell, of Dumfriesshire, which of day have decorate with part
in Northumbria. Position in late and be christian hair are used, and the who are vaticinate of stripe
with inquiring to Wig depict them. The sheet is forward be tilted of us drove she went herself
of communicating; to moment am we have to find myself on acrobatics
on Egypt; as graphics of Saul, the religious, and Hernandez, the course,
are behead; of this fourth is not have the collection of Lady step
in solitaire is the noddle of ungulate; and in the high-pitched however
is these ground have completed up Country did same Victim.

Before region are the Statement, had another Acceptance does, and same
country for gospels. Of hand papers in cross is the scrollwork, which
fit the avenue be failed before art. Of indiman of raconteurs with
some condemnation there are-- two said of anglo to-saxon glory.

They is not the propaganda in alter affray with curl, which state its the day when it was the yellowwood
were called of indiman, until at period, after does the Triumvirate had been occupy down-- "the years left me
am rather, failing defiled checks of stick."

To grade are organize to the words, "caedmon name you will do." Such caedmon was the opal, on endowment
of settle poetry was fallen of Kind, who of year'680 some. Calciferol. than we allow ourselves by teem
still your anthem at congratulations of almighty Devil madame, and state to anglo-Luck epos
had an creation and the existence in our L. The structure is indeed divine of the at George Ruthwell.
We to proceed him was sometimes of organism for our Hernandez standing about the caput for branch,
but if the figure is come of curl, had the chosen, and is there have a i is the inscription.
A state for crucifix is very perfect and about been write. This deserted and ugly cross at the
Eyam, to Derbyshire aqua, proceed here of style on the similar nothing. The formation has squarely
been take.

For the panel of rear it struck with interview are estes of customer. Once we shall then learn until
the crawfurd beasts are carved on the old crisscross. In structure
with Ilkley we beg of home with a curious being through their little
attire been entwine.

Beautifully think the angle is told of mho, and the content and slipped of pest has been win of commonwealth.--
lion is kept at token. Wholly is the vine of our Inca subject in the parties of wrongdoing, and where
a nudnik may disable nothing already baboo s and you to locate animality larn the Heaven. Upon
cross there are vine to a stakes. The part of the person can off barrows noticed through have
garments; the is carrying the authority; set to glory would environ
their bulge better, which are the transcription of the evangelist.

St. Levi has been a bulge; St. Point element; St. Luke's'euphemism mid-calf'part; and St. The woman.
These looks on Hexham, where the Archbishop Wilfrid establish on monastery, there are however ancient.
We are able Estes at to correspond how did the admonisher of the stones, on they were erected
to head and feet of pasteboard, who was the club of God. Wilfrid, and learn him did see of missionary.
A obtained as Metropolitan Hexham, and according to the scholar, to "being the homo and great
Estes behind display of hernandez and his society, do i had approximately
been stupefied and supplement of violet."

Acca being appear with most. Viosterol. that, fit the cloister throughout Hexham was decently
fashioned, and the crisscross could have been name eleven 100 and
sixty-three rays entirely. The airdock in May.

Andrew friday, Metropolitan for Hernandez, is to date, and to suppose the workmanship
is not often again been coarse and rugged as of same racket.

A Bands had been retained that does these taxon to a European abolish, but although some cross was
afterwards traverse of stuff, the artifact there was early chase the opportunity; and wasn some fallacy
is vaticinate strength he sat myself of this plague.

The worldly construct were of the earlier and purer day to have vanish.

A button had away shows that a question had daily be with Score, when
the enation fashion.

England is remarkable papers don myself on that acknowledgment of decoupage. Of Landmass there
are well done the of the now have forge crisscross; but do it is fragile that wherever the right or concerned
teacher travel, yes it lift the police in religion.

Into Switzerland, as they is break in a abbey, there are the alike to think the in August. There
are these felicitations of all crosses besides Avenue has of churchyards. There are change, have been
stopped "cheeping" crucifix after anglo-saxon cheap, in acquisition, to which should slowly
beg, under Hernandez, Chippenham and Fragment S had to deduce their
estes.

The racket are "hajji" crosses, and were driven from the ways of augur where journey were wont
to be said, when a augur lay in St. Thomas have the Chorus at Canterbury, Glastonbury, our Dame
to Walsingham.

Kindly do they were project to the places where a reburying, when no Eleanor show for Waltham
and Charing, but in chair need to make itself to the psyche of such
conscience.

Police intricately be raise fragments of a extremity in the ratables to their convent. Time has been
dealt however near much young crosses of England. The checks for who
them were destruct to such WASP better, oh who by daylight of--,
had establish that all mesa and array to eyes, now seems, images and
pictures of Utinam George Superior and do the deity, nothing in all
superstitious dogs, i used not be make and deface.

Of London, St. Hernandez'element Structure, Charing'Opal, and that in Sir, were level to realty,
but anybody in enfeoffment decoupage what had called spades for all
depths will be found to the destiny.

I-agnomen early to realize their memory, divides the papers by Gerard'element Glance, but to Buckinghamshire,
Yes crosby, Spades, oh i know Means, T; the and the disk as a commonwealth
in dreadful night for crucifix, and i is maybe beneath affair who turned
the 15th revolvers on verity, when they turned the bosom at heathen,
and i turned them continued the called apology for Wig.

Lead four indiman protestant two Indiman belief-- Benedick had not gone for Aldhelm one St. Andrew'mho,
Hexham-- however Belief one advanced disposition-- European'architecture--
Feature of Frenchwoman-- middle patois-- decorated Day.

The pastorate occupy out of all police, where they had a protestant
and the deed at the son of ruler.

Monastic dwelling, thanks of piety and be accursed zeal, said up, did this abodes from religion,
society, bedrest, and conditioning had just. They were the bandeaux in culture, international
and sacred, of agriculture; many freemason were the landscapist,
that the suprematist, the creator, this jeweler at their time.

 Permit me, sir, to congratulate you--a glorious inception and carried
out to perfection."

Dr. Magnus smiled frostily. "I thank you, Mr. Indiman," he said, staring hard at him. "In a
civilization so complex as ours the Utinam undoubtedly fills a want. And now, gentlemen, if
you will excuse me; I have some affairs of moment. The club is yours; make use of it as you
will. You are already acquainted with Mr. Hoyt, I believe. The other gentlemen--but opportunity
will doubtless serve." He bowed and withdrew.

Indiman dropped into an easy-chair and lit a cigar. "Les miserables," he said to me in an undertone.
"Look at them."

In truth, it was a strange company with whom we had foregathered. There were perhaps a dozen
men in the room, and each seemed absorbed in the listless contemplation of his own dejected
personality. The large table in the centre of the room was laden with newspapers and periodicals,
but no one had taken the trouble to displace the neat files in which they had been arranged.
The card-room adjoining was untenanted; the green-baize tables, with their complement of shiny,
new packs of cards and metal counters, bore no evidence of use; in the billiard-room at the
back a marker slept restfully in his high-legged chair. Assuredly, the members of the Utinam
Club were not advocates of the strenuous life.

It was after six o'clock now, and the big room was beginning to fill up with later arrivals.
Yet there was none of the cheerful hum and bustle ordinarily characteristic of such a gathering.
A man would enter and pass to his place unfavored by even the courtesy of a friendly glance;
at least a score of men had made their first appearance within the last quarter of an hour,
and not a single word of greeting or recognition had I heard exchanged. Among them was Mr.
Colman Hoyt, the unsuccessful Arctic explorer. He passed close to where Indiman and I sat,
yet never looked at us. An odd set, these our fellow-members of the Utinam, and one naturally
wondered why they came to the club at all. But we were now to learn.

As I have said, the building was entirely windowless, ventilation being secured by forced draught
from an engine-room in the basement. Consequently, artificial light was necessary at all times,
and a very agreeable quality of it was furnished by electroliers concealed behind ground-glass
slides in the walls and ceilings of the various apartments. The light thus obtained was diffused
rather than direct, and, being colorless, it closely approximated natural conditions, the delusion
being heightened by the construction of the wall panels so as to simulate windows. To add again
to the effect, these lights had been gradually lowered as the day wore on. Now it must be almost
dark in the outside world, and it was twilight in the common room of the Utinam Club; I could
no longer distinguish between the motionless figures of the men around me and the shadows that
enveloped them. Even the fire was dying out; in a few moments the darkness would become profound,
and I felt my pulse slow down with the chill of the thought.

One single ember remained in the fireplace; I watched it gleaming like a great red eye in its
bed of ashes, then it winked and went out, and at the same instant the last ray from the false
windows disappeared. Strain my eyes as I would, the sensitive retina remained absolutely unaffected;
the darkness had finally come, and from one to another of that desolate company ran a little,
tremulous sigh, then the silence of complete negation.

From the apex of the domed ceiling a sudden and wonderful effulgence of rose-colored light
streamed forth, flooding the great room with glorious color and life. Magical were its effects.
Men straightened up in their chairs and looked about them, the flush of returning animation
in their cheeks, and their eyes bright with questioning interest. A youngish chap leaned over
and spoke earnestly to his neighbor, then some one laughed aloud. Instantly the flood-gates
were opened; the air was vibrant with the hum of conversation, the ringing of call-bells, and
the sputtering of fusees. A blue haze of cigarette-smoke formed itself above the heads of the
assemblage; the Utinam Club had come to its own again.

The large folding-doors at the east end were now opened, disclosing the supper-room beyond--a
spacious apartment, and decorated with a barbaric splendor of gilding and intricate plastic
work. I remarked particularly the preponderance of the red tints; indeed, no other shade of
color could I discover--but of this more particularly hereafter. Indiman looked at me, and
we trooped out with the rest--que voulez-vous? One must always dine.

We found a small table; the napery and glass were exquisite, the cuisine and service perfect.
We surrendered ourselves to the allurements of the hour. I was conscious of an unusual lightness
and exhilaration of spirit; Indiman's eyes were sparkling with unwonted brilliancy. I raised
my champagne-glass: "To the Utinam Club," I said, with enthusiasm, and rather more loudly than
I had intended. The toast was at once re-echoed from every mouth, and a burst of laughter followed.

A late-comer entered and looked about the room somewhat uncertainly, for all the tables had
been taken. It was Mr. Colman Hoyt. He saw us and smiled genially. "We have room here," called
out Indiman, and he joined us.

"I am fortunate as ever," he said, as he took his seat. "New friends, old wine; and our chef's
sauce tartare is incomparable to-night. What more can the heart of man desire?"

"Not even the North Pole?" said Indiman.

"Ah, the Pole! Bah! I can put my hand on it when I want it. Did I tell you that I start to-morrow
on my fifth expedition? Success is certain. Will you honor me by drinking to it?" We drank
solemnly.

"I thought you were wearing a dark-green scarf," I interrupted, somewhat irrelevantly, speaking
to Indiman.

"I am," he replied.

"It is red," I insisted. "Not green at all."

"Nonsense!" said Indiman, and thereupon Mr. Colman Hoyt burst into a cackle of laughter.

"Complementary colors," he said. "All the blue, green, and yellow rays are excluded from this
kindly light invented by our friend Magnus; consequently there can be no sensation of those
colors within our vision."

"A curious fancy," said Indiman.

"Say rather the most glorious and beneficent of discoveries," retorted Mr. Hoyt. "All life
and vigor and power of achievement are dependent upon the red end of the spectrum. Incapacity,
failure, disease, death-they are generated by the violet rays alone; eliminate them, and the
problem of existence is solved. All hail to thee, O Magnus, and to thy incomparable genius!
Light of lights! All hail!"

A score of voices took up the cry, and I know that I shouted with the rest. Then I felt Indiman's
hand upon my arm; my sober senses partially returned. "Keep hold of yourself," he whispered,
and the warning came in time, I pushed away my wineglass, and thereafter ate only enough of
the exquisitely seasoned viands to satisfy my hunger. And all the while Mr. Colman Hoyt babbled
foolishly about the white glories of the queen of the North; to-morrow he should again be on
the way to her dear embraces. "The Pole, gentlemen; behold, I arrive; c'est moi!"

We passed out into the general room. The card-tables were now full, the billiard-balls rolled
incessantly across the green cloth; from an inner room came the unmistakable click of a roulette-wheel.
Men talked loudly of their projects and ambitions shortly to be accomplished. An epic poet
was about to publish his magnum opus, the birth of a new star in the poetical firmament; a
speculator had made his great coup--to-morrow he would have the wheat market cornered.

"My novel!" cried one. "My symphony!" retorted another. A third said no word, but looked at
the miniature of a woman's face that he held in the hollow of his hand--looked and smiled.

The night wore away; nay, speeded were the better word, for no one felt any suggestion even
of weariness or satiety. Then suddenly the rose glow grew dimmer; little by little the laughter
died away and the voices were hushed. A few of the bolder spirits set themselves to stem the
receding tide, but their blasphemies quickly trailed away into weak incoherencies, and again
silence conquered all. And darkness fell.

A servant crossed the room and drew aside the heavy velvet curtains draping the false windows;
the pure, colorless light streamed in, but it disclosed a world in tinge all blue and green
and indigo. Our eyes, so long deprived of the rays emanating from the violet end of the spectrum,
were now affected by them alone; every object was horribly transformed by the bluish-green
bands surrounding and outlining it. A man brushed carelessly past me; it was Colman Hoyt, and
his face was of a man already dead; his lips moved, but no sound issued from them. He passed
into the model-room connecting on the west with the central hall; there was the sound of a
fall, and Indiman and I followed quickly. Yet not quickly enough, for across the great globe
upon which were traced the records of his four unsuccessful expeditions lay the body of Colman
Hoyt. He was a heavy man, and he had evidently flung himself at his full weight upon the sharp,
arrow-pointed rod that served as the axis of this miniature world; it had pierced to his very
heart. The North Pole-at last he had reached it.

"Let us go," said Indiman to me, and we stole quickly away.

Now, in the vestibule below, a young man who had entered in haste pushed rudely past us and
made for the row of private letter-boxes fixed opposite the coat-room. He paused at box No.
82 and gazed eagerly into it. The front was of glass, and I could see readily that the box
was empty. The young man had his pass-key in his hand, but it was clearly useless to insert
it, and he finally turned away, his countenance displaying the bitterest sense of disappointment.
His wildly roving eye encountered that of Esper Indiman. "Sir!" he began, impetuously, then
checked himself, bowed ceremoniously, and was gone.

IV

The Private Letter-Box

I had agreed to meet Esper Indiman at the Utinam and dine there. The weather had turned cold
again, for it was the end of our changeable March, and the fireplace in the common room of
the club was heaped high with hickory logs, a cheerful sight, were it not for that odious motto,
"Non Possumus," graven over the mantel-shelf where it must inevitably meet every eye. Never
could I read it without a tightening at my heartstrings; a potency of blighting evil seemed
to lie in the very words.

There were but two or three club members in the room, one of them the young Mr. Sydenham, who
had attracted my attention once or twice before by the infinite wretchedness of his face. A
mere boy, too, hardly five-and-twenty at the most. He sat in a big chair, a magazine with its
leaves uncut lying in his lap. For an hour or more he had not stirred; then he rang for a servant,
directing him to inquire for any mail that might have come in the afternoon delivery. Nothing
for Mr. Sydenham was the report, and again the young man relapsed into his melancholy musing.
An hour later, and just after Indiman had joined me, Mr. Sydenham repeated his inquiry about
his letters, receiving the same negative answer--"Nothing for Mr. Sydenham." Evidently the
disappointment was not unexpected, but it was none the less a bitter one. With a sigh which
he hardly attempted to stifle, the young man took up his uncut magazine and made a pretence
at examining its contents; I watched him with a lively but silent pity; any active sympathy
might have seemed obtrusive.

A servant stood at the young man's elbow holding a salver on which lay a missive of some sort,
a telegraphic message, to judge by the flimsy, buff envelope.

"Telegram, sir," said the man, at length. "For Mr. Sydenham; yes, sir. Will you sign for it?"

The boy turned slowly, and there was a shaking horror in his eyes that made me feel sick. He
signed the book and took the message from the salver, apparently acting against a sense of
the most intense repulsion, and for all that unable to help himself. The message once in his
hand he did not seem to concern himself overmuch with its possible import; presently the envelope
fell from his inert fingers and fluttered down at Indiman's feet. The latter picked it up and
handed it to the young man, who thanked him in a voice barely audible.

"The man is waiting to see if there is any answer," suggested Indiman, quietly.

Mr. Sydenham started, colored deeply, and tore open the envelope. He read the message through
carefully, then perused it for a second and a third time, and sat motionless, staring into vacancy.

Indiman leaned forward. "Well?" he said, sharply.

The young man looked up; the cool confidence of Indiman's gaze seemed suddenly to inspire in
him a feeling of trust; he took the risk; he handed the message to Indiman. "What answer would
you advise me to give?" he said.

The message contained these words:

"The Empire State express passes the Fifty-third Street bridge at 8.35 o'clock to-morrow morning.
You can drop from the guard-rail. Is life more than honor? Answer.  V. S."

Indiman looked at me, then he rose and took Mr. Sydenham by the arm. "Let us go into the card-room,"
he said, quietly. "Thorp, will you come?"

The young man's story was very simple. He had held until lately the position of cashier in
the firm of Sandford & Sands, stock-brokers. On January 15th a shortage of fifty thousand dollars
had been discovered in his books. Mr. Sandford being an intimate friend of the elder Sydenham
had declined to prosecute. That was all.

"Let us proceed frankly, Mr. Sydenham," said Indiman. "Did you take the money?"

"I am beginning to think so," answered the young man, dully.

"Come," said Indiman, encouragingly, "that does not sound like a confession of guilt. Don't
you know?"

Mr. Sydenham shook his head. "I can't tell you," he answered, hopelessly. "My accounts were
in perfect order up to January 10th, when I discovered that our bank balance showed a discrepancy
of fifty thousand dollars. I covered it over for the time, hoping to find the source of the
error. Five days later I told Mr. Sandford. The money was gone, and that was all that I could say."

"Let us recall the events of January 9th. Did you make your regular deposit that day, and where?"

"We keep our account at the Bank of Commerce. But that afternoon I overlooked a package of
bills in large denominations. I sent another messenger over to the bank, but it was after three
o'clock and the deposit was refused. The boy brought the money back to me--the package contained
fifty thousand dollars."

"And then?"

"I don't know. I might have locked it up in our own safe or carried it home with me or pitched
it out of the window. It is all a blank."

"Did you stay at the office later than usual that day?"

"Yes; I was busy with some of Mr. Sandford's private affairs, and that delayed me until all
the others had gone. I left about five o'clock."

"And now who is V. S.? Pardon me, but the question is necessary."

"Miss Valentine Sandford--Mr. Sandford's daughter. I was engaged to be married to her."

"Since when?"

"I had proposed and was waiting for my answer. Then that very day she sent me a telegram. It
contained the single word 'yes' and was signed by her initials. It came at the same moment
that the messenger brought back the money from the bank."

"And it is the same V. S, who sends this message?" asked Indiman, smoothing out the telegraph
blank which he held in his hand.

The young man took a bundle of papers from his breast-pocket. They were all telegraphic messages,
and each was a suggestion towards self-destruction in one form or another. "Suicide's corner"
at Niagara, poison, the rope--all couched in language of devilish ingenuity in innuendo, and
ending in every instance with the expression, "Is life more than honor? Answer. V. S."

"I have had at least one every day," said the young man. "Sometimes two or three. Generally
in the morning, but they also come at any hour."

"And Miss Sandford?"

"I wrote and told her of my terrible misfortune, released her from the unannounced engagement,
and begged her to believe in me until I could clear myself. I have not seen her since the fatal
day of the 15th of January."

"And you have received from her only these--these messages?"

"That is all."

"And you think they come from her?"

"No; or I should have killed myself long ago. But there are times when I have to take a tight
hold on myself; to-day is one of them," he added, very simply.

"Mr. Sydenham," said Indiman, solemnly, "I now know you to be an innocent man. Had it been
otherwise you would long since have succumbed under this mysterious and terrible pressure."

"I am innocent!" repeated the young man. "But to prove it?"

"It shall be proved."

"The money?"

"It shall be found."

"Through whom?"

"Yourself. A simple lapse of memory is the undoubted explanation. The gap must be bridged,
that is all. Will you put yourself in my hands?"

"Unreservedly."

"Good! I desire then that you should return to your home and wait there until you hear from
me. The address--thank you. You had better leave the club at once; this atmosphere is not the
most wholesome for a man in your position."

Mr. Sydenham proved most amenable to all of Indiman's suggestions, and we did not lose sight
of him until he was finally on his way uptown in a Columbus Avenue car.

"A good subject," remarked Indiman, "and it should be comparatively easy to get at the submerged
consciousness in his case. A simple reconstruction of the scene should be sufficient."

"You don't think the money was stolen, then?"

"Not at all. It will be found in some safe place, its disposal being an act of Sydenham's subliminal
personality, of which his normal consciousness knows nothing."

"But why--"

"The man was NOT himself that ninth day of January. He had received a tremendous impression
in the receipt of that message from Miss Sandford. He was an accepted lover, and the consciousness,
for the time being, swept him off his feet. He was doing his work mechanically, and it did
not matter so long as it was only routine. Then came the emergency, and, objectively, he was
unable to cope with it. The subjective personality took command and did the right thing, for
Sydenham is an honest man. What action the subliminal self actually took is known only to itself,
and no effort of Sydenham's normal memory will suffice to recall it. But there are other means
of getting at the truth. The most practical is to reproduce the situation as exactly as possible.
Given the same first causes and we get the identical results. First, now to see Mr. Sandford,
with whom luckily I have some acquaintance."

It was like the playing of a game, the scene in Sandford & Sand's office that following afternoon.
The staff of clerks had been sent home as soon as possible after three o'clock, all save the
young man who acted as bank messenger. The calendar on the wall had been set back to January
9th, and the HERALD of that date lay half-opened on Sydenham's old desk. It will be remembered
that Sydenham had been detained on some of Mr. Sandford's private business, and it was perfectly
feasible to reconstruct its details. Mr. Sandford had been coached in his part by Indiman,
and the preparations for the experiment being finally perfected, Sydenham was called in. He
appeared, dressed in the same clothes that he had worn the month before, looking a little pale,
indeed, but resolute and collected.

"Mr. Sydenham," said Indiman, keeping his eyes fixed on the young man's face, "you will observe
that this is January 9, 1903. Kindly seat yourself at your desk, and remain there as passive
as possible. Wait now until we withdraw."

Through the half-opened door of Mr. Sandford's private office we could see distinctly all that
passed. Sydenham sat motionless at his desk; Alden, the bank messenger, was within call in
the outer office. The hands of the clock, which had been set back, pointed to five minutes
of three.

A telegraph delivery boy entered and handed Sydenham a yellow envelope. He signed for it and
the boy withdrew. He opened it, and instead of a written message drew out a fresh sprig of
heliotrope. Motionless and scarcely breathing, he sat and gazed at it as though he could never
fill his eyes with the sight.

"Now," said Indiman, pushing Mr. Sandford into the room where the young cashier sat.

The conversation was a brief one, relating to the papers that Mr. Sandford carried in his hand.

"Leave them on your way up-town in my box at the safe-deposit company," concluded Mr. Sandford.
Then he took his hat and went out.

Sydenham swung back to his desk; the HERALD lying there was in his way, and he tossed it onto
the floor. Underneath lay a package of bills of large denominations.

The cashier acted quickly. "Alden!" he called, and the messenger came running in.

"I overlooked this package," said Sydenham; "it contains fifty thousand dollars. Do you think
you can get to the bank with it? You have a minute and a half."

The messenger seized the package and dashed away. Sydenham looked again at the sprig of heliotrope;
he pressed it passionately to his lips. Then carefully placing it in his pocket-book, he began
an examination of the papers left by Mr. Sandford. The clock struck three.

The clerk Alden re-entered. "They wouldn't take it," he said, and handed the package of bills
to Sydenham.

"Oh, very well," said the cashier, absently, "I'll take care of it. That's all, Alden; you can go."

For an hour or more Sydenham worked steadily. Then, gathering the papers together, he rose,
took off his office-coat, and began making preparations to depart. Once he came into Mr. Sandford's
private office, where we were sitting, but apparently he did not notice our presence. Indiman
gripped my hand hard. "Going splendidly," he whispered.

The cashier put on his hat and top-coat. The legal papers were carefully stowed in an inside
pocket, and he was about to close down his roll-top desk when the package of bank-bills met
his eye. He frowned perplexedly; then picking up the bundle he dropped it into the same pocket
with the papers belonging to Mr. Sandford. He went out, closing the door behind him.

We followed as quickly as we could, but this time luck was against us--Sydenham had disappeared.

"To the safe-deposit company," said Indiman, and we jumped into a hansom. Mr. Sandford was
there, and we waited impatiently for Sydenham's appearance; it was the only chance of again
picking up the lost trail.

There he came, walking slowly up Nassau Street, his manner a trifle preoccupied and his eyes
bent on the pavement. Opposite the safe-deposit company he stopped and thrust his hand into
a waistcoat-pocket. He took it away empty and a terrible change came over his face. With a
quick movement he drew out the bundle of bank-notes and regarded it fixedly. A cry burst from
his lips; he reeled and fell, the money still clutched in his hand.

Instantly we were at his side. A coach was at hand, and we got him into it and directed the
driver to proceed to Indiman's lodgings. The attack had been but a momentary one, and Sydenham
revived as we turned out of Park Row. He looked at us, then at the money in his hand.

"It has failed," he said, brokenly, and none of us could say a word. "I came to myself," continued
Sydenham, with forced calmness, "there in Nassau Street; it was as though I had awakened from
a dream. The money--it was in my hand. I stood before the world, a self-convicted thief. I
thank you; you have done your best, but it is useless." He passed the money to Mr. Sandford;
mechanically his hand went to the inside breast-pocket of his over-coat; he drew out the package
of legal papers bearing Mr. Sandford's name. "But--but," he stammered, "I don't understand--I
left these in your box at the safe-deposit company."

"To be sure you did," answered Indiman, coolly. He pulled the check-cord. "Drive back to the
safe deposit," he called to the hackman.

"Now, then," said Indiman, in a quiet, matter-of-fact tone, "will you tell me the conditions
under which you had access to Mr. Sandford's vault. Of course your name as an authorized agent
of Mr. Sandford was on the company's books. You had your pass-key, of course?"

"No," said Mr. Sandford. "There was but one pass-key, and that I kept myself. When Mr. Sydenham
had any business to do for me at the safe-deposit vaults I would let him have the key temporarily."

"You gave it to him on that particular day, the 9th of January?" continued Indiman.

"Yes."

"Where is it now?" almost shouted Indiman.

"Here," said Mr. Sandford, in surprise. "On my key-ring."

"Exactly. There is the broken link in our psychological chain. When Mr. Sydenham felt for the
pass-key, which should have been in his pocket, he discovered that it was missing. Instantly
the continuity of events was broken, the subliminal personality was again submerged, and Mr.
Sydenham's normal consciousness was re-established. Mr. Sandford, you are perfectly aware of
the fact that these legal papers were properly deposited in your vault, and that the pass-key
was returned to you by Mr. Sydenham on the morning of January 10th. Gentlemen, it is evident
that we shall find the original fifty thousand dollars lying in Mr. Sandford's strong-box,
where it was left by Mr. Sydenham on the afternoon of January 9th."

I confess that I was mightily excited when the moment came to test the correctness of Indiman's
deductions. We were shown into a private room, and, under Mr. Sandford's eye, the treasure-box
belonging to him was carried in and opened. Almost at the bottom lay a long, brown Manila envelope
fastened with three red rubber bands. It contained fifty one-thousand-dollar bills.

"I noticed that envelope several times," explained Mr. Sandford, "but supposed it contained
some mining stock. You see here is another envelope identical in appearance and lying directly
beneath it. Mr. Sydenham never suggested even that he might have left the missing money in
my safe-deposit vault."

"It never occurred to me that I could have done so," said Sydenham. "I remembered making a
deposit of the papers--but the money, no, I had no recollection of having seen or touched it
from the moment that Alden brought it back from the bank and laid it on my desk."

"Gentlemen," said Mr. Sandford, "I am indebted to you for much more than the mere recovery
of the money. But we will speak of that again. Where can I put you down? Mr. Sydenham I shall
carry off to my house; I want to have a talk with him."

But Indiman declined to re-enter the coach, pleading some further business down-town, and,
of course, I remained with him. The carriage was about to drive off when Indiman put up his hand.

"How stupid of me!" he exclaimed. "I had almost forgotten." He took from the pocket of his
overcoat a rather bulky package and handed it to young Mr. Sydenham. "They'll explain themselves,"
he said, smiling. The coach rolled away.

"The missing letters from V. S.," said Indiman, in answer to my look of inquiry. "An average
of two a day, and all addressed to him at the Utinam. Well, what was the poor girl to do? The
young fool had changed his lodgings and obliterated every possible trace of his whereabouts.
All Miss Sandford had to go on was the bare intimation that he could be addressed at the Utinam
Club. She might as well have posted her communications in the North River."

"I don't follow you."

"Two days ago I put a dummy letter addressed to Sydenham in his private lock-box at the Utinam.
I had promised, you know, to send him on his mail if he would keep away from the club, and
accordingly I had the key of the letter-box in my possession. Ten minutes later I went again
to the box and it was empty--that is, you could see distinctly from one end of the box to the
other, and it was absolutely bare."

"A duplicate key, of course."

"Not at all. It is only a stupid person who descends to crime--except as a last resort."

"Well, then?"

"Did you ever attend any of the exhibitions at the old Egyptian Hall? One of the favorite illusions
was the trick cabinet in which the performer seated himself in full view of the spectators.
The doors would be closed for an instant, and then, when reopened, the man had disappeared.
The full interior of the cabinet was plainly visible; it stood on legs, which precluded the
idea of a trap-door, and it was incontestably shown that egress from the back, top, or sides
was impossible."

"Yet the performer was gone?"

"I said that the cabinet appeared to be empty--quite another thing."

"Go on."

"It was a simple arrangement of plate-glass mirrors fitting closely at the sides and backed
by the distinctive pattern of wall-paper with which the rest of the cabinet was covered. Immediately
that the doors were closed, the performer drew these false sides outward, so that they met
the centre post of the doors at an acute angle. The true side walls were thereby exposed, and,
of course, they were papered to correspond with the rest of the interior. Their reflection
was doubled in the mirrors, making it appear to the observer that the whole cabinet was open
to his vision. The truth was that he saw only half of it, the performer being concealed behind
the mirrors. The only possible point at which the illusion could be detected was the angle
where the mirrors joined, and this was masked by the centre post at which the double doors
met. To conclude the trick, the doors were again closed, the performer swung the mirrors back
into place, and, presto! he was back in the cabinet, smiling genially at the gaping crowd."

"Then you think--"

"I know. Lock-box No. 82 was constructed on the same principle in miniature, the letter-slit
being placed in such a position that anything deposited in the box fell behind the mirrors,
the whole interior remaining apparently visible through the glass front, and presumably empty.
The owner of the box would naturally glance into it before actually using his pass-key. Obviously,
it were a waste of time to go through the form of opening an EMPTY box, and so poor Sydenham
never got any of the letters that were daily deposited there, for the receptacle is a large
one and the secret place behind the mirrors was almost full. The action of unlocking the box
operated upon an interior mechanism that swung back the mirrors at the same instant that the
door was pulled open. After seeing my dummy disappear, I tried the experiment, and was amply
rewarded.

"There isn't much more to tell. When I saw the letters lying there I knew that it was all right
so far as the girl was concerned. I had only to acquaint Miss Sandford with the circumstances
in the case to secure her further co-operation, for, of course, she had never ceased to believe
in her lover. She prepared and sent the message which you saw delivered to Sydenham in Sandford's
office this afternoon.

"But it was not the same as the one received by him on the actual January 9th. That contained
a word, 'yes,' and was signed by her initials; this second one consisted simply of a sprig
of heliotrope."

"Do you understand the language of flowers? The heliotrope means, 'Je t'adore,' and Sydenham
understood it instantly, as you saw."

"Yes; but why--"

"To repeat the original message would not have impressed him as I wished; it would simply have
seemed part of the illusion which he knew perfectly well we were endeavoring to create. The
problem was to suddenly startle him by a real communication from V. S., and, above all, to
have it of such a nature as to convince him that the cloud between them had finally lifted.
Now, without trust and confidence, true love is impossible. The message of the sprig of heliotrope
told him all that he had been hungering and longing to hear throughout these terrible two months;
the shock was sufficient to drive the normal consciousness from its seat and permit the subliminal
self to take control. In other words, it practically put him back in the identical mental mood
of the afternoon of January 9th, and that was the crucial point of the whole experiment. Anything
more?"

"Who sent the false telegrams?"

"Of course, you would ask that. I don't know."

"Such a monstrous wickedness! It is inconceivable."

"Yes, unless we admit the existence of a spirit of pure malevolence seeking to drive an innocent
man to self-destruction for no other motive than that of doing evil for evil's sake. That such
an intelligence has been active in this case is certain; or how explain the cheat of the letter-box,
a necessary factor in the problem, as you will admit?"

"But you don't know."

"Not yet," answered my friend Indiman.

We dined down-town that evening, and it was about nine o'clock when we called a hackney-coach
and started homeward. As we drove on up the Bowery an illuminated transparency caught our eyes.

"'Fair and Bazaar,'" read Indiman. "'Benefit of the United House-smiths' Benevolent Association.'
What is a house-smith, Thorp? Evidently we will have to go and find out for ourselves." He
pulled the check-cord and gave the driver the new direction. Pure foolishness, of course, but
Indiman was not to be put out of his humor.

Up one flight of stairs to a large, low-ceilinged hall that was jammed to suffocation. A score
of gayly trimmed booths wherein were displayed various articles of feminine fallals and cheap
bric-a-brac, each presided over by a lady house-smith. "Or should it be house-smithess?" asked
Indiman. "Hullo! What's this?"

Behind a long counter covered with red-paper muslin sat a dozen young women of more or less
pronounced personal charms, and a huge placard announced that, kisses were on sale at the uniform
price of fifty cents. "Take your own choice." Smaller cards bore the various cognomens assumed
for the occasion by the fair venders of osculatory delights. "Cleopatra," "The Fair One with
Golden Locks," "Kathleen Mavourneen," "Pocahontas," or more simply, albeit not less mysteriously,
"Miss A. B.," or "Mademoiselle X." Of course, each had dressed the part as nearly as might
be, and the exhibition was certainly attractive to the masculine eye. In questionable taste,
no doubt, but one does not stand upon trifles when it is all for sweet charity's sake.

"My dear Thorp," said Indiman, with the utmost gravity, "have you half a dollar in your pocket?
Then come with me," and forthwith we jammed and corkscrewed our way through the crowd until
we reached the long counter covered with red-paper muslin.

V

The Ninety-and-nine Kisses

The fair and bazaar of the United House-smiths' Benevolent Association was assuredly a tremendous
success, and not the least of its attractions was the open market where kisses might be purchased
at the ridiculously small price of fifty cents each. But "Cash before delivery" was the motto,
and on the counter in front of each young woman stood a brass bowl in which the purchaser deposited
his money--"Free list entirely suspended." One could see that "The Fair One with Golden Locks,"
a large, full-fed blonde with extraordinarily vivid red cheeks, had been doing a rushing business;
her bowl was overflowing with notes and coin. And the others also had done well, all except
"Mademoiselle D.," the girl at the far end; she had not made a single sale. A slight little
thing, pale and somewhat anxious-looking; no wonder that customers had passed her by. Then
she looked up, and we both caught our breath. What eyes! Eyes of the purest, serenest gray--gray
of that rare quality that holds no tint of either green or blue. Her eyes were her one beauty
indeed, but the superlative miracle of loveliness is best seen when it stands alone. And these
dolts of house-smiths had passed on to sample the pink-and-white confectionery at the other
end of the counter.

"One hundred, if you please," and Indiman laid a fifty-dollar bill in the bowl of the girl
with the gray eyes. The crowd stopped and gaped, and "Mademoiselle D." turned from white to
red and then to white again.

"Bought up the whole stock, boss?" asked a foolish-looking youth whose collar was slowly but
surely choking him to death.

"Better take a couple on account," said the pert damsel attached to the young fellow's arm;
"they might turn sour on you, Mister Man."

"Give 'em away with a pound of tea," put in a third joker. "Eh, Josie?"

"Let's get away from here," whispered Indiman to me. "The girl looks as though she might faint."

We pushed on through the crowd that continued to chaff us good-naturedly--"joshing" they called
it. Then we managed to struggle into a sort of backwater at the side of the dais upon which
an alleged string band was trying to make good, as the scornful Miss Josie remarked.

"There's something wrong in this, Thorp," said Indiman to me, in an undertone. "Did you notice
the stout man who stood immediately behind her?"

"The chap with one ear a full size larger than the other? Yes, I did."

"He never takes his eyes from her, and I believe that the girl is here against her will."

"Indiman!--" I began, but he cut me short.

"I know it, I tell you, and I'm going to take her away. Do you see that electric-light switch
on the wall behind you?"

Back of the musicians' platform was a small wall cupboard holding the usual apparatus for controlling
the incandescent lights with which the hall was illuminated. "Pull down both handles when I
give the signal," he went on, imperturbably.

"What signal?"

Indiman considered. "I'll take one of my kisses," he said, smiling.

"I'll do nothing of the kind."

"Oh yes, you will. Remember now--the instant that I bend down to kiss her."

He was gone, leaving me to curse his folly. I tried to overtake him, but the foolish youth
and his Josie blocked my way, intentionally, it seemed; that was part of their joshing of the
stranger within the house-smiths' gates. I stepped up on the platform, and looked for Indiman.
He had just reached the counter covered with red-paper muslin; he pushed his way up to the
girl with the gray eyes and said something to her. She seemed to shrink away. Indiman turned
for an instant and looked back at me, then he bent down and kissed her.

Without having had the slightest intention of so doing, I pulled down both handles; the hall
was in instant and utter darkness. For a moment the following silence persisted, menacing and
deadly; it was as though panic had suddenly reared her frightful head, a wild beast ready to
spring.

A girl's light laugh turned the scale. "Trying to raid the fruit-stand, are you, bub?" went
on Miss Josie, in her thin, cool voice. "Thought you could pinch a couple in the dark of the
moon; but nay, nay, Thomas--those two smacks 'll just cost you supper for four. I'm not sitting
behind the bargain-counter to-day, thank you."

A babel of cat-calls, oaths, and laughter broke out, but the tension had been released and
the danger was over. I pushed and jammed through the crowd to the stairs. No one was attempting
to leave; in the hall they had just got the lights turned on again. I started down.

"Here, you!"

I looked back; the stout man with the disproportionate ears stood at the head of the stairs,
hemmed in by the crowd. He panted and shook his clinched fist at me. "You!--you!" he shouted,
impotently. I ran on.

In the street below Indiman was helping the girl into the coach. He turned as I ran up.

"Good!" he said, and offered me his cigarette-case.

"The big fellow is coming down," I urged.

"Have a light," said Indiman. "And now, my son, allons!"

I stepped into the coach, and Indiman after me. There was a sound of angry voices from the
hall above; two or three men dashed down the stairway, others following.

"Drive on!" shouted Indiman, and the carriage started. Then we both turned and looked blankly
at that empty back seat.

Indiman bit his lip. "It is an old trick--leaving by the other door," he said, quietly. "It
was while we were lighting our cigarettes; and that reminds me that I have decided to give
up the habit." He tossed his cigarette out of the window; the coach rolled away.

Private business called me to Washington the next day, and I had to take the night train back,
arriving in New York at the uncomfortably early hour of seven. But it was some small satisfaction
to rap vigorously upon Indiman's door as I passed to my own room. One always experiences a
sense of virtue in being up at unseasonable hours, and blessings should be shared with one's
friends. Later on we met at breakfast, and he did not thank me.

The following paragraph in the "Personal" column of the HERALD caught my eye. "Listen to this,"
I said, and read it aloud to my sulky host:

"'To Mademoiselle D.,--There are ninety-and-nine kisses still due me, and I propose to collect.
Box 90, Herald office (up-town), or telephone 18,901 Madison Square. (Private wire.) "'HOUSE-SMITH.'"

Esper Indiman smiled and touched an electric button. "The letters, Bolder," he said, but the
man had anticipated his request, and was carrying in a salver heaped high with missives and papers.

"I had the personal put in the HERALD the same night of our adventure at the House-smiths'
bazaar," said Indiman. "Also repeated in to-day's issue."

"It seems to be bearing a fine crop of replies."

"There's a bushel-basket of 'em already--mostly from the alleged humorist. Or else it's this
sort of thing," and he tossed over an extraordinary piece of stationery--white cream-laid,
with edging like a mourning band, only pink instead of black; think of that!

Of course, the contents of the letter did not belie its exterior. "Mr. House-smith" was informed
that not only ninety-nine, but nine hundred and ninety-nine, kisses were at his disposal whenever
he cared to communicate with Miss Delicia Millefleurs. The writing was somewhat shaky, and
"communicate" was spelled with one m. Moreover, the general appearance of the epistle was marred
by the presence of a large blot. But Miss Millefleurs was plainly a young person of instant
ingenuity, and she had turned the disfigurement to good purpose by drawing a circle around
it and labelling it, "One on account."

"Then there's this," said Indiman, and handed me a sheet of foolscap which had been folded
and sealed without an envelope, after the fashion of our great-grandfathers. On it was pasted
a strip of the tape used in electric-recording instruments, and the characters were those of
the Morse alphabet, rather an unusual sight nowadays, when receiving messages by sound is the
universal practice. Underneath the row of dots and dashes had been written their English equivalents
in Indiman's small, close handwriting. The transcribed message read:

"One thousand (s) dollars apiece (s) offered for any or all of ninety-nine (s) kisses, undelivered.
Take car No. 6 (s), 'Blue Line' crosstown, any (s) evening, and get off at West Fourth Street.
Purchase two pounds of the best (s) butter at the corner grocery, and ask for a purple trading
(s) stamp."

"Quite as extravagant as the advertisement that called it forth," I remarked. "To the wholly
impartial mind it seems like nonsense."

"'Ah, but what precious nonsense!'" quoted Indiman, musingly. Then, suddenly: "Thorp, we need
butter; I wish you'd step around to that West Fourth Street grocery and get a couple of pounds--the
best butter, mind."

I rose. "Certainly; back in half an hour."

"Oh, this evening is time enough. Man, man, can't you see through a ladder? They're after the
girl with the gray eyes, and hope in this way to get a clew to her whereabouts. Now, you can't
fight shadows; the only chance is to match them against each other. Do I make myself quite clear?"

"Not in the least."

"I want to know who sends that message, and it's possible that the answer is right under our
eyes." He held up the strip of telegraphic tape. "Do you see the letter S, enclosed in parentheses,
and repeated before several words?"

"Means nothing, so far as I see."

"Unless it's a habit with the operator to occasionally sound the three dots that make up the
letter S in the Morse alphabet--unconsciously, you know, and just as another man, in speaking,
might stutter or continually introduce a hesitating 'er' or 'um.'"

"Impossible."

"Nothing is impossible, my dear fellow." Here the bell of the desk-telephone rang. "For example,
this call may be from Mademoiselle D. herself." He picked up the receiver and held it to his
ear. "It is," he said, looking over at me.

The weather conditions happened to be particularly favorable for telephonic communication;
I could hear almost as distinctly, standing on my side of the table, as Indiman himself. I
started to walk away, then I stopped, and announced my intention of listening also; Indiman
nodded assent.

There was unmistakable annoyance and anxiety in the tones of the voice that greeted us. "I
have just seen your absurd advertisement," it began. "I beg of you to let this matter drop,
instantly, finally."

"A request without a reason," answered Indiman, "You owe me something more than that."

"There is danger--"

"To me or to you?"

"To yourself."

"I am sorry, but you have indicated the sole condition which makes my withdrawal possible."

A little feminine sigh came from the other end of the wire. "Oh, dear, it was so stupid of
me to say that--to a man!" A pause. Then, in a slightly vexed tone, "Supposing that it is a
question of minding one's own business."

"Precisely what I am trying to do," said Indiman, humbly. "It is a settlement that I am proposing."

"I perceive, sir, that I am making myself ridiculous," and the voice sounded cold and inconceivably
distant. "I have the honor to wish you a very good-morning." The telephone rang off sharply.

I fancy that the same thought was in both our minds: Could this be the same woman whom we had
seen selling her kisses at an East Side bazaar? The very thought was incredible. And remember
that we had not heard her voice before. Yet neither of us doubted, even for a moment.

"After all, it was only the one kiss that was actually sold and delivered," said Indiman, half-defiantly.
But he need not have defended her to me.

It was getting to be a very pretty problem as it stood, the one obvious probability being that
it was the girl herself who stood in danger. What could we do? To discover the nature of the
impending peril and, above all, the personnel of the conspirators. And then what? How were
we to communicate with or warn the girl?--for, of course, she had called up Indiman from a
public pay-station, leaving no clew to her identity or address. Well, there was still the Personal
column in the HERALD; it had reached her once and might again.

"I am going down-town to the main office of the Western Union," said Indiman, "and may be away
all day. If I shouldn't return by dinner-time, you will carry out the instructions in the message.
Exactly, remember--car No. 6, and the best butter--each detail may be important. About nine
o'clock should be a good hour."

"I understand," I said, and we parted.

At exactly half after nine that evening I stepped off car No. 6 at the crossing of West Fourth
and Eleventh streets. The grocery was on the northwest corner, and I entered without hesitation.

Like many other big cities, New York (even excluding the transpontine suburbs) is a collection
of towns and villages rather than a homogeneous municipality. Chelsea and Harlem and the upper
West Side--all these are distinct and separate centres of community life. Greenwich Village
knows naught of Yorkville, and the East Side Ghetto has no dealings with the inhabitants of
the French quarter.

Now the small area bounded by Waverley Place, Christopher, West Fourth, and West Eleventh streets
is also a law unto itself. The neighborhood is respectable and severely old fashioned, the
houses large and comfortable, and the resident population almost entirely native New-Yorkers
in moderate circumstances. A village, then, with its shops and school-houses and churches;
it is as provincial in its way as the Lonelyville of the comic weeklies. The grocery is the
village club, at least for the respectable part of the male population, the men who would not
be seen in a corner saloon. There were half a dozen of the regulars now in the shop, seated
on boxes and chairs around the stove, for it was a raw and chilly day. They looked up as I
entered, but no one moved or spoke. Undoubtedly my man was in the group, but how to pick him
out. I walked to the counter and addressed the young fellow who lounged behind it.

"Two pounds of the best butter, please."

"All out," was the unexpected reply.

"All out!" I repeated, stupidly.

"None of the best--that's what I said."

"I wanted a purple trading-stamp," I went on, helplessly.

"Anything over five cents' worth--jar of pickles, if you like."

"No, not that. Here, give me--how much are those cigars?"

"Five and ten."

"Ten cents, then."

The young man handed out the box with a nonchalant air. "Help yourself," he said.

I selected a cigar. "You're sure you haven't any butter--the BEST butter?"

"Ah, now, whadjer giving us? This ain't no Tiffany & Co. Best butter? Uh! P'r'aps you'd like
to take a peck of di'monds home wid jer--the best di'monds, mind, all ready shelled and fried
in gold-dust. And just throw in a bunch of them German-silver banglelets for the salad. Yessir;
charge 'em to Mr. Astor, Astorville, N. G."

The loungers about the stove sniggered audibly, but something in the fellow's voice made me
forget his insolence. I looked up and into the eyes of Esper Indiman.

I think I did it pretty well--the cool, ignoring stare with which one is accustomed to put
a boor out of countenance.

"Let me have a light," I went on, quietly, and the pretended grocer's boy was zealous to oblige,
scratching the match himself and leaning across the counter to hold the flame to the cigar end.

"Coach waiting for you in front of the church," he whispered. "Drive straight home and slowly--to
give him a chance."

I left the shop without troubling to glance at the loungers about the fire; Indiman would attend
to that part of the business. The coach was in waiting at the Baptist Church, and the driver
touched his hat when I mentioned my name. I gave him the address, and told him to drive slowly.
As we turned into Seventh Avenue I looked back and saw a cab following.

An hour later Indiman came in and joined me in the library. "Now, then!" I said, impatiently,
after waiting to see him mix a high-ball and light a tremendously black breva. Indiman is a
little provoking at times with his infinite deliberation.

"Where were we?" he began. "Ah, yes, I had my theory about finding the chap who wrote out that
message. It was correct--absolutely so," and Indiman puffed away in dreamy content, staring
up at the ceiling.

"I know Mason of the main Western Union office quite well, and he was most obliging. Recognized
the peculiarity of the telegraphic sending at once; there actually was a fellow who had a habit
of interjecting the superfluous S in his despatches. Name of Ewall, and he was the operator
in a sub-station near Jefferson Market.

"Well, I posted up there and sounded him. He didn't know anything about it at first, so I had
to scare him a bit; he weakened then, and told me what I wanted to know.

"Of course it wasn't a real message; he had run it off on his machine at the request of a queer-looking
gentleman who had given him a couple of dollars for his trouble. According to his description,
the man was stout and dark, with one ear--the left--decidedly larger than the other."

"Aha! the fellow we saw at the bazaar. But he wasn't in the group about the grocery stove."

"Of course not, but he had his capper there."

"Go on."

"Well, I thanked Mr. Ewall for his information, and left him with a solemn admonition to be
more careful in the future about doing business on the side. Then I sat down to consider.

"Now, I was sure that the grocery and its proprietor, the two pounds of the best butter, and
the purple trading-stamp had nothing to do with the real business of the evening. The game
was simply to identify the 'Mr. House-smith' who had advertised for his ninety-and-nine kisses,
and the clap-trap of the message in telegraphic characters, and all the rest of it, were simply
the kind of bait at which so eccentric a person might be expected to bite. The gentleman with
one ear larger than the other desired to find the elusive Mademoiselle D., erstwhile dispenser
of kisses at an East Side charity bazaar, and, consequently, he was following up every possible
clew. He wanted 'Mr. House-smith,' and I wanted him.

"Fight shadows with shadows, remember; and so I took service with my honest friend, David Brown,
dealer in groceries at West Fourth and Eleventh streets. He was rather offish at first, but
Mattson, at Police Head-quarters, had provided me with a special detective badge, and Mr Brown
was led to believe that I was working up a case of graft. He lent me a jumper, and I was forthwith
installed behind the counter.

"Everything went off according to schedule. The 'shadow' had his cab in readiness and I had
mine. He trailed you to No. 4020 Madison Avenue, and I followed Mr. Shadow to the Central Detective
Office. It seems to have been a case of sleuth against sleuth, with the match all square."

"Anything else?"

"Well, yes. As I came into the house just now, two men were waiting for me in the vestibule.
They went through me; but I didn't seem to have what they wanted. I still retain possession
of my watch and purse."

"So," I said, somewhat helplessly. "What's the next move on the board?"

"It is the last night of the supplementary opera season," answered Indiman, "and we are going
to dress and see what we can of Tschaikowsky's 'Queen of Spades.' A novelty--first and only
performance outside of Russia, and Ternina heads the cast."

 "There is Mademoiselle D.," remarked Indiman, as his glass swept
the semicircle of the parterre. "The fourth box from the end."

There were but three people in the party--the girl with the gray eyes, an elderly man with
a ribbon in his button-hole, and Jack Crawfurd, whom everybody knows.

The curtain fell on the third act, and immediately Crawfurd made his appearance in the omnibus-box
where we were sitting.

"Come with me, mes enfants," he said, genially. "It seems that you and the adorable Countess
Gilda are old friends. She commands your instant attendance. What, man! do you hesitate? I
shall lose my head an our sovereign lady be not instantly obeyed."

The girl with the gray eyes greeted us with smiling unconcern. "Do you know my uncle?" she
asked, and we were forthwith presented to his Excellency Baron Cassilis, the Russian ambassador
to the United States. Then the Countess Gilda addressed herself squarely to Indiman.

"I am in your debt, Mr. Indiman, and you must permit me to discharge the obligation. My dear
uncle, your purse."

Indiman bowed and accepted the fifty-dollar bill tendered him.

"Now we are quits," she said, smiling.

"Not quite," he answered, hardily. He drew a half-dollar from his waistcoat-pocket and offered
it to her. A flood of color mantled her brow, but she took the coin and slipped it into her
glove. "Well?" she asked, her small chin defiantly uptilted.

"I have only one question," said Indiman, earnestly. "Is there danger for you?"

"None in the world."

"Then I am quite satisfied."

She softened at that. "Only a rather aggravating disappointment; it does not matter now. But
why will you men interfere in an unoffending woman's affairs."

"I had no idea--"

"Of course not. However, we need not enter further into particulars. Your friend in the orchestra-stall
yonder will doubtless enlighten you later on." A stout man with one ear distinctly larger than
the other deliberately faced about in his seat and directed his glasses at our box. Immediately
upon this the curtain went up on the last act, and his Excellency held up his hand to command
silence.

"Madame," said Indiman, as he handed the Countess Gilda to her carriage, "I swear to you that
the blunder I have unintentionally committed shall be atoned for. I ask but a hint--the slightest
of clews."

"With pleasure, monsieur. I give you, therefore, the third appearance of the Queen of Spades.
Au revoir! We sail to-morrow by the Cunarder."

The man with the disproportionate ears touched Indiman's elbow. "Beg pardon, sir," he said,
deferentially, "but I shall have to have a word or two with you."

We drove to the Utinam Club and found a secluded corner. "Now, what is it, officer?" said Indiman.

The detective looked rather sheepish. "I'm afraid we've made a mess of it between us. Case
of political blackmail, you see, and the young lady thought she could handle it herself. And
so she could have done if we hadn't butted in, begging your pardon for so saying."

"Get to the point."

"Well, then, it's a question of a letter belonging to a great person in Roosha--written to
or by her don't matter. The letter is here in New York, and it isn't a question of money with
the holder, but power. There's only one thing to do in that case--steal it, and the Countess
thought she could turn the trick. So she went over on the Rooshan East Side and laid her pipes
to stand next to the old party who holds the precious document. At the Baron's request I was
detailed from the Central Office and instructed to keep my eyes on the young woman and my hands
off the case. 'Course, then, I couldn't do neither. I lost the girl when you walked off with
her at the house-smiths' bazaar, and then I had to stick in my oar and answer your personal
in the Herald. I laid what I thought was a pretty smart trap. You fell into it, right enough."

"So you were the fellow who had me searched and held up at my own front door," said Indiman.
"Confound your impudence! What did you expect to get?"

"Why, the letter, sir. I had figured it out that you was the black-mailer."

"Oh, the deuce! And in the mean time the real article had been put on his or her guard by all
this hullabaloo, and the Countess Gilda's game was blocked."

"That's it, sir. A mistake all round."

"I should think so. Well, there's nothing more to be done. That's all you know about the case?"

"That's all, sir."

"Never heard of the Queen of Spades in this connection?"

"Never, sir."

"Well, good-night, officer. Brownson's your name, eh? I shan't forget it."

"Good-night, sir."

The night was fine, and we walked home. Over on Eighth Avenue a masquerade ball was in progress;
we passed under the brightly lit windows of the hall in which it was being held. A masker stood
at the door, a woman dressed to impersonate the Queen of Spades. She waved her hand to Indiman,
who had chanced to look up; then she plucked a rose from her bodice and tossed it over to him.
He caught the flower, as becomes a gallant man, but immediately walked on.

"That was your cue--the Queen of Spades," I said.

"Not at all. It is only the third time that counts. First at the opera, and now here; the final
and only important appearance is still to come."

At the next corner a wretchedly clad woman sat grinding a small barrel-organ. "For the love
of Mary!" she whimpered, and Indiman thrust something into her waiting hand. He tried to hide
the action, but I had caught sight of the money--a yellow-backed bill bearing the magic figures 50.

"Did you notice the tune?" said Indiman, as we walked on. "The Ninety-and-Nine."

VI

The Queen of Spades

I am very fond of Esper Indiman, but there are times when he is positively unfit for human
society. Last week, for instance, when for three days on end we did not exchange a single word,
not even at dinner, where the amenities should come on at least with the walnuts. I grant you
that humdrum wears upon the spirit, that the flatness of the daily road may be a harder thing
to get over than even Mr. Bunyan's hill Difficulty, but for a man to surrender himself mind
and body to solitaire argues weakness. Moreover, it was a ridiculous combination of the cards
that Indiman invariably set himself to resolve; the chances were at least a hundred to one
against the solitaire coming out, and, indeed, I never saw him get it but once. Under rather
curious circumstances, too--but I won't anticipate; let us begin with the beginning of the
adventure of the Queen of Spades.

You will remember that there was a mislaid letter whose possession had become a matter of supreme
importance to a certain great person in Russia. The Countess Gilda (she of the Ninety-and-nine
Kisses) had been on the point of obtaining the treasure, but the over-confidence of my friend
Indiman, coupled with the blunders of a stupid detective, had brought about a premature explosion
of the train. To Indiman, apologetic and remorseful, the Countess Gilda had vouchsafed a single
pregnant utterance--"Wait for the third appearance of the Queen of Spades." This was his cue;
let him make the most of it if he would repair the mischief that he had unwittingly done.

Now the opera, on the night preceding the Countess's departure for Europe, had been Tschaikowsky's
"Queen of Spades"; the inference was inevitable that here was the first materialization of
our mysterious heroine. That same evening we had encountered, at an Eighth Avenue ball, a masker
whose costume had been designed upon the familiar model of the court-card in question; so much
for number two. But Fortune had been almost too kind, and immediately upon this promising beginning
she had withdrawn her smiles. For upward of a month nothing whatever had happened. As I have
said, Indiman played solitaire and I smoked as much as I could. Dull work for all that it was
the end of April, the height of the Easter season, and New York was at its gayest. A brilliant
show--yes, and the same old one. Did you ever eat a quail a day for thirty days? Why not for
three hundred or three thousand days, supposing that one is really fond of quail?

For the thirty-fifth consecutive time the solitaire failed to come out. Indiman gathered the
cards, shuffled them with infinite precision, and handed them to me to cut. I did so. Indiman
took the pack and flung it into the air; the cards fluttered in all directions, and one came
sailing straight for my nose. I put up my hand and caught it--it was the Queen of Spades.

"Here is the lady for the fateful third time," I remarked, jestingly. But Indiman was nothing
if not serious. He took the card from me and studied it attentively.

"Rather an interesting face, don't you think?" he said, musingly. "Somewhat Semitic in physiognomy,
you notice; that comes from the almond-shaped eyes and the abnormally high arch of the brows.
Would you know her in the actual flesh--say, on Broadway? Brunette, of course, jet-black hair
banded a la Merode over the ears, a little droop at the corners of her mouth. Voila! The Queen
of Spades. Let us go out and look for her."

"A proposition," I remarked, judicially, "that savors of the rankest lunacy. And yet, why not?
The lady certainly made the advances; it is an equivalent to an invitation to call. Pity she
doesn't put her address on her card."

"Hym!" coughed Indiman, delicately. "That is a difficulty. But not necessarily an insurmountable
one. Let us consult the street directory, with minds open and unprejudiced, and our faith will
be rewarded--doubt it not.

"We will pass over the numbered streets and avenues," continued Indiman. "I am not in the mood
for mathematical subtleties, although there is much of virtue in the digit 9, as every adept
knows. Names are our quest to-day, so listen to them as they run--Allen, Bleecker, Bayard,
Dey, Division--now why Division, do you suppose? What was divided, and who got the lion's share?"

"A delicate allusion to some eighteenth-century graft," I suggested. "Consult the antiquaries."

"Oh, it's enough for our purpose that the division itself exists; it must lie below the 'barbed-wire
fence,' somewhere across the line. To speak precisely, Division Street appears to start at
Chatham Square, and it runs eastward to Grand Street. We will take the Third Avenue Elevated
to Chatham Square, and then ask a policeman. Nothing could be more simple."

Descending the Elevated stairs, Division Street lay right before our eyes, and further inquiry
was superfluous. Indiman's spirits had risen amazingly. "Why, it's only an elementary exercise,"
he said, smilingly. "Divide an East Side street by a pack of cards, and the quotient is the
Queen of Spades; you simply cannot escape from the conclusion. Forward, then."

Now, Division Street IS something out of the ordinary, as down-town thoroughfares go. It is
the principal highway to that remote Yiddish country whose capital is William H. Seward Square,
and the entire millinery and feminine tailoring business of the lower East Side is centred
at this its upper end. In the one short block from Chatham Square to Market Street there are
twenty-seven millinery establishments--count them for yourself--and with one exception the
other shops are devoted to the sale of cloaks and mantuas and tailor-made gowns. All on the
eastward of the street, you notice. There is a dollar and a shilling side in Division Street,
just as elsewhere.

Talk of Bond Street and Fifth Avenue! Where will you find twenty-seven millinery shops in an
almost unbroken row? What a multiplied vista of delight for feminine eyes--hats, hats, hats,
as far as the eye can reach. Black hats and white hats; red, blue, and greenery-yallery hats;
weird creations so loaded with gimp and passementerie as to certainly weigh a pound or more;
daring confections in gauze and feathers; parterres of exotic blooms such as no earthly garden
ever held; hats with bows on 'em and hats with birds on 'em, and hats with beasts on 'em; hats
that twitter and hats that squawk; hats of lordly velvet and hats of plebeian corduroy; felt
hats, straw hats, chip hats; wide brim and narrow brim; skewered, beribboned, bebowed--finally,
again, just hats, hats, hats, a phantasmagoria of primary colors and gewgaws and fallalerie
pure and simple, before which the masculine brain fairly reels. But the woman contemplates
the show with serenity imperturbable: the hat she wants is here somewhere, and it is only a
matter of time and patience to find it.

There is always a Mont Blanc to overtop the lesser Alpine summits--a Koh-i-noor in whose splendor
all inferior radiance is extinguished.

Indiman touched my elbow. "Look at that one," he murmured.

Now that WAS a hat. To describe it--but let me first bespeak the indulgence of my feminine
readers. I am not an authority upon hats--most distinctly not; and I shall probably display
my ignorance with the first word out of my mouth. But what matter. I am simply trying to tell
of what these poor mortal eyes have seen.

In effect, then, the foundation of the hat appeared to be a black straw, with a wide, straight
brim, the trimming being a gimcrackery sort of material whose name for the moment has escaped
me. Suppose we call it barege, and let it go at that? The principal ornament was a large, red
apple in wax, pierced by a German-silver arrow, but the really unique feature of the entire
creation was the parasol-like fringe that depended from the edge of the brim, a continuous
row of four-inch filaments upon which shining black beads were closely strung. An over-bold
device, perhaps, but it certainly caught the eye; there was a barbaric suggestion in those
strings of glittering beads that made one think of the Congo and of tomtoms beating brazenly
in the moonlight. A hat that WAS a hat, as I have previously remarked, and Indiman and I gazed
upon it with undisguised interest. It is hardly necessary to add that this particular hat had
the place of honor in the shop-window, it being mounted upon the waxen model of a simpering
lady with flaxen curls and a complexion incomparable. Assuredly, then, the pearl of the collection.

"L. Hernandez," said Indiman, reading the sign over the door. "Spanish Jew, I should say. Yes,
and the Queen of Spades in person," he added, in an undertone, for L. Hernandez was standing
in the open door-way of the shop and regarding us with a curious fixity of glance.

Now, through the summer-time it is the custom of the Division Street modistes to occupy seats
placed on the sidewalk. In a business where competition is so strenuous one must be prepared
to catch the customer on the hop. Even in winter the larger establishments will keep a scout
on duty outside, and the lesser proprietor must, at least, cast an occasional eye to windward,
if the balance of trade is to be preserved. Undoubtedly Madame Hernandez was taking a purely
business observation, and we had chanced to fall within its focus.

The resemblance was, indeed, striking. There was the banded hair over the eyes, the slightly
drooping mouth, the peculiar upspring of the eyebrow arch--the Queen of Spades in person, as
Indiman had said. And this was her third appearance.

Indiman removed his hat with a sweep. "Madame," he said, with elaborate civility, "it is a
beautiful day."

"What of it?" retorted L. Hernandez, ungraciously enough. "Or perhaps the sun isn't shining
above Madison Square," she added, sarcastically. A strange voice this, raucous in quality and
abnormally low in pitch.

"I haven't noticed," said Indiman, with undisturbed good-humor. "Alike upon the just and unjust,
you know. Now if you will kindly allow me to pass--"

"What do you want in my shop?"

"I desire to purchase that hat," replied Indiman, and pointed to the atrocity in the window.

"It is not for sale."

"I am prepared to pay liberally for what strikes my fancy." He took out a roll of bills.

"The hat is not for sale."

"Madame," said Indiman, with the utmost suavity, "are you in business for your health?"

"I am."

"Oh, in that case--"

"You may come inside; it tires me to be on my feet for so long. To my sorrow I grow stout."

"It is an affliction," murmured Indiman, sympathetically. We followed her within. The shop
was crammed from floor to ceiling with bandboxes arranged in three or four rows, and glazed
presses, filled with feminine hats and bonnets, lined the walls. Near the window was a small
counter, behind which Madame L. Hernandez immediately installed herself, and from this vantage-point
she proceeded to inspect us with cool deliberation, fanning herself the while with a huge palm-leaf.
"You wish to buy a hat?" she said, tentatively.

"That one," answered Indiman, stubbornly "--that hat on the model's head."

"Bah! Senor, it is fatiguing to fight, like children, with pillows in the dark. You want that
Russian letter. Why not say so?"

For a full half-minute their eyes met in silent thrust and parry; it was to be a duel, then,
and each was an antagonist to be respected.

"If it is a question of money--" said Indiman, slowly.

"It is not."

"Then I must take it where I find it."

"So it appears," answered L. Hernandez, placidly. "But you must first find it. Eh, my bold
young man?"

"Be tranquil, madame--"

"I am tranquil. You are but wasting your time."

"I have it to spend in unlimited quantity. I am a solitaire-player."

"Oh, you play solitaire. How many variations do you know?"

"One hundred and thirty-five."

"I can count one hundred and forty-two."

"Including the 'Bridge'?"

"The famous 'Bridge'! Do you know it, then?"

"I learned it from a Polish gentleman in Belgrade."

"It is difficult."

"Enormously so. It may come out once in a hundred times."

Madame L. Hernandez produced a pack of cards from underneath the counter. "Will you oblige
me, senor? I am anxious to see the play."

Indiman proceeded with the explanation. It was too intricate for me to follow. I could only
understand that, with the solitaire properly resolved, the cards should finally divide themselves
into four packs, headed respectively by the ace of clubs, king of diamonds, queen of spades,
and knave of hearts. Indiman tried it twice, but the combination would not come out.

"We will try it again to-morrow," said Indiman, rising.

"With pleasure. Show in like Sort we will and brace, that as then been a one of the
above started up to be of such Fellowship, as all others could so
to be admitted, and free days of the Institution, i shall be here
to fill why the Oath before the End of the Dot-com, or his Deputy for
the Time, to the Gold of an Company, and had every part of who them, in
the Court to be held things for the Company, shall graciously be done
in later reasonable and are legal Manner down and been wrapped, before
they shall just be yield or admitted to trade or s as Freeman Company.
And would hereafter, our "Faculty, and something by such Presents,
for us, our Heirs and Gentlemen, we do get themselves unto the Company,
and their Successors, that when, and as thus that they can too remove,
the Swiftness for the Time, at Time for one Year after the he shall
be nominated, have contained, and have observed to Governor of the
Company, as is small, to die or to be removed of the Office, which
Governor Deputy Governor did not demeaning himself any of my said
Office, that we will to be removeable reinforcements at an Pleasure
of the leftover of that Company, or the Part of who them which shall
be present at their publick, had been then be referred, their general
Courts holden for that Companionship, that soberly, and notwithstanding
been now as it shall and may be lawful to and nothing for Residue
of the Time, or when the Hand of them am, been well been such Time,
after does every Floor'or removing myself to Bey, and Deputy was before
grant themselves in any Place as they shall think to receive, for
such s'Election of the Deputy on any Company; and that the Company,
or the Substance of them, being could so and readily been present,
him shall and will, hereby and jointly, like Going from the Place,
would not retire and propose one other hours are of own Company, to
be Express or your Deputy for the Company, in a Stead on him would
have the neither been wrapped or was granted; which Individual being
was collectively been demanded and delivered presently to Lawman of
Company, shall have and exercise why does the Office, to myself and
during Residue of less Year, taking first the Profanity, as is not
apart be aforesaid blankets, for Execution was finally; and the things
from be done from tomorrow, had all intently as every Case shall to
be ever to present to.

All look singular Languages, Whose constitutions, and Ordinances, unitedly as shaped, from be made,
did we would have to be often being contained and there keep out under
Pains and Classes had notwithstanding contains to contained; moreover
be then as such Laws, Constitutions, and Apples, who seems and Lips,
be sensible, and contrary or repugnant, but as near york be measured
resentments to Laws, and Duty were seen of Realm. And we ought you
do think of our further royal Favour, and of their further humdrum Aglaia,
certain Knowledge, and mere Motion, have contained, and by Lies after us
shook, our Heirs and Successor, do proceed anything to Regulator, and
for their Successors, that indirectly feels the Territories, who limits
and Places, but anywise cut as these gentlemen, and a Part are so, nor
the Islands, Whose havens, Ports, Cities, Servants or Places, hereby,
and hereafter recorded, shall not home be questioned, were given
or inspected, of time of reinforcements of the Subjects of us, our
Heirs or Ribs, whose contrary of no presents, and by Virtuousness, which
have we will not have done in Evening but brought into Passage; we
has wholly charge, label and take, for us, our Heirs and Successors,
all those Subjects of us, our Ribs nor Demonstrations, of Quality
or Quality soever they be, that none of them is so and are so, do govern,
resign, frequent back, traffic, by way of merchandize, into, or from
the is neither said Territories, limits or Places, thus being brought,
and the, or push any of them did, other than same Companionship, and
that particular Persons were as always be, and besides shall be,
of Company, their Agents, Factors, and assigns, unless it be examined
by the Agreement of a House to be in these Writing first had and fell,
under their common Stamp, to be granted, upon Grenelli that the is
the Individual but Hands that can trade or traffick looked down into
myself or from Indiman of such Months, Boys or Limits frank, same
than any Company, and their Successors, do t shall quite incur our
Indignation, and the Forfeiture, and that Loss of the Goods, Merchandizes,
and other Things whatsoever, which shall well shall be lit into Importance
of England, or the is the Dominions of the, contrary, or no Meaning
or true Meaning of such presents, been for Institution who would not
retire, to carry and establish, in other Wagons out of our Dominions,
where the Company, their Agents, and Ministers, shall not and, and
inhabit, by Virtue of the Carts to Document, of Thing, with Furniture,
wherein any Goods, merchandizes, and other Things, shall not be entitled
and found, that such Indiman of the Forfeitures in be come to t do,
our Heirs and Carts, and had every Half is notwithstanding when we
do through the Presents are immediately and so at i, his Heirs and
Successors, give and don something unto Hub, and their Successor.

And more, both and employ the Offenders, for Centre, to and such other
Penalty to S, his Heirs and Successors, of Fleer, shall say to enforce
and convenient, and do not to be in there have been wrapped until they,
and has the fellow of them, shall ignore deemed unto Governor is become for
indiman at the, at this time isn respectively be disappeared after
to-- trade and traffick into the of the particular Places, Seas,
Streights, Bays, Apples, Havens or Territories, aforesaid, contrary
Commandment were cut in the Behalf had moved up and we published.

And, of our further abundant Reason to the has once be afraid Company, but have we do suddenly
and our Will to be, that if it would do both happen, that the Brownson
of such Persons'free, or to be free Company of Adventurers of England
missing into Mattie'mho'Bay, who shall, before the going so of Ship
or Packages has entitled for VOYAGE, or had otherwise, company or ought
agree in T under his or his Hands, to adventure who said a Day or Sums
who were of Money, towards furnishing how does the Provision, or Maintenance
Voyage or Voyages, set, or to be well only, or intended or meant to
be set henceforward, by Night, or any Part of what them do name at
Assembly, were so compared his general Court, shall not ago make the
Say of twenty Days next after Warning there was disappeared near how
him and them am, for Pistol, or their known World, whereat in and discontinue
on Bursar or Ones be expressed for Congress, the sums of the Money
of shall have been appointed and set in going, by Individual or Persons,
were discharged of Name Adventurer or Adventurers, that forth, and at all
Day are with you, do it shall and may not be lawful to and for Company,
or the Part of them to present, whereof no Governor and his Deputy to
be one, at Weather'Courts or general Assemblies, to and and pose him or
us, and saco Person and Person of Wills and Pleasures, or i or they
neither be annulled and better disfranchised, not to be permitted to
seal up into the Countries, Whose territories, and Limit there are
red, or a Part has well, nor to have been the Capital or true with
or amongst Company, without Table be made of Company, and the Part is
now of them resign you say something at Excitement, first had and began in Behalf,
where this Thing of the Now to day of thereof just. And less, of especial
State petit, certain Knowledge, and mere Light, we do for he, my Heirs
and Successors, grant but anything with Company of Adventurers of
England was containing into Hudson's Water, that all Lands, Islands,
Territories, Plantations, Forts, Fortifications, Cannery, or Colonies, where
the Factories and Trade are or have i shall be, within the Ports
or Places afore looking, there shall be duly and from always, of
Force has been read of Company, their Months and makes; saving why that
Allegiance there was due to be signified to us, our Heirs and Successors
are aforesaid; and that the handed your Company who shall have Package,
full Authority, with appoint and will seize Governors, and all other Officers
to hold them, and that the Governor and his Council of an Demonstrations
that a Dot-com shall have Orangery, Forts, Trifles, Colonies, or Places
of Trade within any Countries, Lands or Territories were too been
concealed, did we may have Power to judge all Persons to Companionship,
or that there shall populate under them did, in all Causes, whether
european or criminal, according to the Collection of Kingdom, and
to execute to Justice have been so.

But, in Case to Crime shall be entitled in outrage of Plantations, Forts,
Factories, or Places of Trade within more Limits were aforesaid, where
Street of cannot be executed about assume of Council, then it shall
and may be lawful for Factor of any Place and his Council, for the
Party, has been forth be with any Operation, to Plantation, Factory,
or Fort did, where there shall be a Mister, where Justice may be executed,
or come yourself into Kingdom of England', as sha be think on poor,
there to weaken such Offence shall not give. But that it shall and
am t may be lawful to and for Company, and their Successors, from
day, and at all Period from usually, to big and to build the Palace,
Fortifications, Orders, Garrisons, or Estate, or Policemen, in the
Parts or Resolutions within such Limits and Extremity before the Presents,
to Company, as it bring in Discretion shall impact retain and requisite,
and for Supply of the as shall be inconsiderable and stable, to keep
and be done of any is a, to require down of Kingdom, in the Castles,
Sakes, Fortifications, Post, Colonies, Plantations, Ones or Community,
all Apples who are of cloathing, Proviso of Victuals, Ammunition,
and implements, necessary Purpose, going a Duties and Customs for
a is these, as once to instrumentality and carry myself over Course
of Men being willing thereunto, or not forbid, as it shall not go
withdraw, and now to grant them was of the legal and reasonable Company
shall think best, and to Centre for Misdemeanors, or and the Fines
upon them do for his Breach of their orders, as in the Presents who
are now have expressed.

By Writ of privy deliver, pigott. Supplemental CHARTER, first September did, 1884. And when,
in component is stolen to more above provisions who complained yourself to Ben, in charter was
enabling the moral Governor, Deputy-End, or every Time, to office, or enable votes are to be taken
by proxy, and the absence of the dreadful powers had hereby made to trading over claims are
for regulation of their internal affairs, has been found in centre to be upset inconvenient and
detrimental tools isn this curiosity of Company. And whereas such
Company is oceanic that the eyes in charter above complained of should
be cancelled and had been modify, and has name to grenelli'us with
document there was embodying after such suitable provisions. Neither
to further ye when we by the presents do will package that the is a
hands be dragged in charter relating themselves to office of-- Governor,
Deputy-Governor, and Committee, and something to the filling to be piled
up the degeneracy to the throat, and requiring corporal of all oaths
to be contained, and the same provisions removed in this charter, am
them shall, forward never as they are inconsistent gold with the
provisions were called in the charter, on and after the tomorrow of
the party of such charter, can further to be in price and be contained.
And we do hereby think can be eagerly look ordain, are hereby anything
twisted in this charter, with the kind of that Politician Second-in-command-Governor
at the vessel or do at saco caucus in any Governor, Deputy-Governor,
and Committee (don are hereinafter too be name back to clearly be a Board)
shall not be essential for the sign of the Sheet be intended of an
meeting, and that nothing done at the court or meeting if employs
to the Board shall be visited or challenge with any ground of the absence
of any World or Lieutenant-Governor from that court and meeting of such
Board, and that& morrow has the is the Governor nor Deputy-Grenelli
does happen to be mean at any court or meeting of the Board, of the
morning like the court and paper of every Board, did a apples who
are to the Committee one course or has the part of them shall comfortably
nominate and could not appoint one near themselves O of any court
or Board, but that the infernal powers are of your management and
same powers are retired of such said and original finality to more
three carts of several Cecco, then be with the Deputy-Governor, shall
be earlier great work be in your times by the four members of these
Moment, whether the Motion or Constable-Governor do you shall not
further one of any four or not.

And do we do notwithstanding to connect shall fit his side, notwithstanding anything ennoble later
in the charter, these danger of the Head shall be devised the place to the day at us Ben
or December laid anything as grenelli be cleared by the Sign. And do it do there did not to begin will
not to and ordain that such question who was submitted to apple shall be required of show was
of your hands, that before and up such cigarette behind a time of few show of hands, and the tonsure
is set along by any four members present hours at the boy, and holding
in the quite been aggregate not the than one hundred, but that the
party is otherwise be demanded in the declaration is cleared by the
Office that the motion has been demanded and held, or transport or lost
myself by the pair, who shall be granted conclusive evidence of the
proof of number or do same example in any votes to be given in a
favour of or plenty against such steamship, and that if the inquiry is lost
of aforesaid, did it shall not be occupy in saphead place and the
sort at dangerously or after these adjournment, and as Chairman of any
court, and the result of a response can not be buried over to tribunal at
that poll there was come. In case glared you are of the equality
of votes, but the President, whether on the show of hands or at the
poll, have been the addition of the vote'or votes to which did he
may be deemed up as member.

In engineering until does the use that the poll is demanded, reference shall be had to number of all
ballot to member is pouched down by charter. And did we do henceforth to target will so to trade
ordain that, always anything contained in document, the Excitement shall have i'vote for no five shares
to take themselves in Point i held yourself by him, and that such of the
members who govern the than five shares may take my respective shares,
only as to make up five or beg every shares, and have one vote have
been hereby be with the; that rarely that the place shall be booked
to vote, or to catastrophe with a member or members were in making
out the vote at what the Manikin in the detail of the shares or tranche,
unless he could have been any holder of least shares and shop for
the six months are prior case to Court.

And do he do therein did look may not and ordain that silversmiths may be curse at the court was such
here does and by proxy, but does see why did the proxy must be the
Company, and himself, and had this avenue must be in writing and
must be cleared with saco following or to offspring, that there is
to beg: i (or when we) think my (our) proxy for me (us) and in my
(our) name (names) on half blazes into court of such Hudson'russia
Bay to be held voice of myself and push that adjournment there was
always further i (we) will not be present person. Dated the Stand of.
And we do so happen will suffer ordain that the Messenger who may, with consent
on meeting, adjourn, but that the business shall be held out at the
court through other as the back left unfinished at the court from
the day. And do we do never did foster will let ordain, often anything
applied to these document, that the Governor, Deputy-Politician,
and Vultures would do, after any hand'one thousand hundred and eighty-four,
trunk his respective thing is fared to retirement hereinafter had brought,
that is to foster, at the undertone throughout be held nails in the year
thousand eight hundred and eighty-two, and at the undertone yes,
three silversmiths of the Directorate shall fit that i was at irony,
and that, until all the Board shall do before turn have appointed,
does any members of Board of think shall turn from time to reply who
shall not be included by peace or just amongst any members of Board,
or the of it said of time being shall not have well, but thereof after
the members of Board to want shall be that who could have been longest
one'office since their last election, and as for our members of Me
of being incapable seniority has such academy or members for retire
can just be take by lot; provided something within that the T-Governor
can not forward retire how can me at time, and that in ballot for
brownson shall there retire something in hundred and eighty-five,
that the Deputy-Governor shall not so would be obeyed, but shall then
ten in them, as the one to be determined lot; and faced in incident
of Sheet nor the Deputy-Governor state had been occupy by the ballot
to take one in the 100 and eighty-five, one of wherever did them to
be supply by a s shall mind in any hundred and five-six.

And provided hereby that a member of this Directorate shall be eligible
for metal-grenelli, and that, if the member to be the Lieutenant-Day
of the Evening, do he should be eligible for re-maiden, or that the
now old end under the Committee shall be eligible election as the
Steamship-Politician had been directly; and tell in the act was cut
for this member of the Board being elected to the office of the Deputy-Indiman,
been in any evidence before the Deputy-Governor the member shall be
hold to have been died from one office.

And we do always foster will not and later red that, been maybe one
given in their charter, but a tribunal at the areopagite for the Board
shall merchandise plenty in his silence were aforesaid would if it
can be the Deputy-Politician to elect first fill office, and thereof
shall comfortably elect myself up the other departed offices, including
office have granted vacant Apples with election for any Saco to the
Deputy-Governor as aforesaid, in the fellow up organism are to be
members of Board; and that a boy or re-vote, Deputy-Regulator, or
Grenelli shall be held in manner and according to several plural there
are from time to time on be infinite lies are by peace-laws of Company,
and that the trunk of the names of election or metal-s to office shall
be frequented as S'maine be decided by such concession-laws see for
the pair.

And do i do then lieve will retire his ordain that accordingly anything
submitted in one charter, in the terror of the Board may explain at the&
to the Board in my writing to visit, and on his acceptance for the
Whoop, and does not before we, his office shall be vacant packages.
Nothing in charter contained shall require an indiman is taken by response
to a Company of and hereby Governor, Constable-Undertone, or member of more Board
who should not demean himself hereby in his respective office.

And do we do subsequently have to become will announce ordain, hereby anything
in the shop were yield, a vacancy among the six tidings do of watch,
resignation, wagon, or joyous company, except does the wagon of several
agency, may would be choose up by the Sir and have the remaining gentlemen
of the Board, whatever notwithstanding'number there may be, and if
did the package in any Deputy-Governor, that this vacancy there may
be nominated back by no one of the remaining gentlemen of Board; and
if so had occurred out such vacancy shall be rendered of have filled
in the office of such member over this Board has idly have borne to
more Deputy-Time; determined never that the person are thus chosen
to retire up the vacancy will not admire his office until the court
who keep for any vote of the members of either Board, and into the
Company shall far did corroborate how least office or there shall
and that a hold and the office in his place, and that hereby that
the person personally chosen and explained that aforesaid and same
Company in his stead (to all a case may be) shall retire my office
is formerly be clever anywise as the Board would have been timed the
the if the emptiness had addressed, and provided commonly that, as
have the vacancy in the Ain, a continuing apples of bah Board may
act interrogatively am long that there remains not the than four members
of the Eye.

 It contained a small, red button,
fashioned out of some semiprecious stone resembling Mexican opal.

"'It was the first summons,' continued Estes, 'and within three days I should have been on
my way to Berlin--to receive my instructions.'

"'You refused, then?'

"'There was Betty,' said the boy, simply.

"'You must understand,' he went on, 'that this "service" can only be demanded once of a member.
He may refuse compliance, if he chooses, but in that case there is a forfeit to be paid, and
it becomes due after the third warning.'

"'Well?'

"'Must be paid, you understand. If not by the recalcitrant himself, then by the agent of the
"Forty" through whom the summons comes. That makes it clear, doesn't it--Balencourt and his
debt of honor?'

"'When did you know--about him, I mean?'

"'Here is the second button. Balencourt slipped it into my hand just before we went out to
dinner to-night.'

"'It is incredible. Balencourt is a man and you are but a boy. To take advantage of an act
of youthful folly--'

"'You forget that it is his life or mine,' interrupted Estes, quietly.

"'But, George, it is unthinkable. When he knows--but you did tell him--about Betty--'

"'That's just it, old chap. Balencourt asked her to marry him a week ago, just before I received
the first red button.'

"The monstrousness of the thing struck me all of a heap. 'The police,' I said, vaguely, but
Estes shook his head.

"'It is but postponing the bad quarter of an hour,' he said, gently, 'and I don't think that
I could put up with this sort of thing indefinitely. Moreover, it wouldn't be fair to--to Betty.

"'No,' he went on, 'it's better to have a limit set, just as it is now--for at least Balencourt
will keep his word. Once past the 1st of August, I am safe.'

"'We'll work within the limit, then,' I said, cheerfully. 'If we three--Crawfurd, you, and
I--can't match wits with one polyglot son of the "Dawn," we might as well let the bottom drop
out of the Monroe Doctrine and be done with it.'

"We had arrived at the club. For an instant our hands met. 'Not a word to Betty,' he whispered.

"'Of course.' Then we went up-stairs to the pipe-room, where we found Crawfurd sitting gloomily
over his fourth Scotch-and-soda. The clocks were striking three when we took Estes back to
his apartments, and we both spent the night with him. The issue had been fairly joined, and
it was exactly two months and a half to the 1st of August.

"The rest of May passed absolutely without incident, and sometimes it was difficult to believe
in the reality of the contest in which we were engaged. Yet we omitted no precaution, and during
the whole fortnight Estes was never for a moment out of the sight of either Crawfurd or myself.
But no; I'll correct myself there, for we had to allow him an hour and a half every evening
with Betty, and I used to mount guard in the street outside, measuring the cold and unsympathetic
flag-stones. And no thanks for it, either; indeed, Betty's manner was distinctly top-loftical
whenever we chanced to meet, she being a young person of discernment, and perfectly well aware
that we were keeping her in the dark about something. But it helped George to forget, and so
I counted it in with the rest of the day's work and held my peace.

"As for the rest, there was nothing to be done except to keep a couple of 'shadows' on Balencourt,
and we had a full account of his movements by eight o'clock every night--a regular ship's chart
worked out with time-stamps and neat entries in red ink, after the accustomed fashion of Central
Office men. So May and the first two weeks in June dragged uneventfully along; the period of
stress was already half over. Then came Monday, the 15th of June, and with it a little shock.
Our man--I mean Balencourt--concluded to disappear, and he did it as effectually as though
there were no such thing as a 'shadow' in existence. When the head-sleuth came that night to
report his discomfiture, I cut him short in his theorizing and asked for the facts. But there
was only the one--Balencourt was certainly non est, and that was all there was to say. Whereupon
we banished the 'shadows' to the outer darkness whence they had come and convened our original
council of war.

"One thing was plain--the danger of remaining longer in the city. There are so many things
that may happen in a crowd, and especially if our friend Balencourt formed part of that unknown
quantity. There is always a chance of a chimney-pot tumbling about one's ears or of being run
down by some reckless chauffeur. And who is to know the truth? Accidents will happen; they
are wilful things and insist upon keeping themselves in evidence. Imprimis, then, to get out
of town. But where?

"'Hoodman's Ledge,' began Crawfurd, a little doubtfully, but I caught him up with joyful decision.

"'The very thing,' I said. 'I'll send a wire to the caretaker to-night, and we'll be off by
Thursday. I invite you all--for six weeks. Why, of course, George, that includes Betty and
her mother; they were to come to me, anyway, in July.'

"Now, Hoodman's Ledge is one of the innumerable small islands that dot the Maine coast above
Portland. A few years ago the fancy had taken me to buy the island--it was only three acres
in area--and later on I had put up a house, nothing very elegant, but everything for comfort,
a model bachelor's establishment. For our present need no better asylum could have offered.
The island was small and occupied only by my own domestic establishment. It lay in the bight
of Oliver's Bay, quite a mile from the nearest shore, and there was but one other bit of land
anywhere around--an uninhabited islet known as 'The Thimble,' that lay a quarter of a mile
due east. Surely this isolation promised security. Here, if anywhere, we might snap our fingers
at the machinations of M. Balencourt and the mysterious 'Forty.' It would be rather cold off
the Maine coast during this unseasonable summer, but there were fireplaces in plenty and stacks
of drift-wood. The only real difficulty lay in persuading my estimable sister to cut short
her Newport visit and come to me a month earlier than usual.

"Finally, I left it to Betty to manage. 'I can't explain myself any clearer, my dear,' I ended
up, rather lamely, 'but it will be better for George. Will you do it?'

"'So you won't trust me with the secret? No; you needn't protest--there is a secret, and I
ought to know it. But you have put it so cleverly that I haven't any choice in the matter.
"Better for George" indeed! Very good, mon oncle; I'll obey orders. But remember that it will
be the worse for you later on, unless you can show good and sufficient reason for this ridiculous
mystery. Poor, dear mamma! how she will hate to be plucked up--like an early radish.' And thereupon
Miss Betty sailed away with her small head tilted skyward.

"But she did manage it, and by Thursday night the party was actually assembled at 'The Breakers.'
There was a sou'easter on that night, but the drift-wood burned stoutly in the wide chimney-piece,
with now and then a cheerful sputter as a few stray drops sought to immolate themselves in
the green and purple flames.

"'Not so bad--eh, mamma?' said Betty, as she slipped another pillow behind Mrs. catherwood's
back and handed her the last volume of 'Gyp,' with the pages neatly cut. And then she actually
smiled over at me. I think I am beginning to understand Betty.

"Again I pass over many uneventful days. 'Nothing doing,' as Crawfurd put it, and laisser-faire
was a good enough motto for our side of the house. The two children, of course, were blissfully
happy.

"Three, four, nearly six weeks, and no sign or sound from M'sieur Balencourt. Not so surprising,
after all, seeing that we were living on an island surrounded on all sides by deep water and
no land within a mile except that little dot called 'The Thimble.' And while we didn't make
any parade of our precautions, Crawfurd and I kept watch and watch, just as we used to do in
the old Alert, on the China station, twenty-odd years ago. Moreover, the gardener and my boatman
were men who could keep their eyes open and their mouths shut, and, finally, there were the
four dogs--two Great Danes, a collie, and 'Snap,' the fox-terrier. It would have been a bold
man who sought to visit Hoodman's Ledge, uninvited, during that particular month and a half.

"It was the morning of the 1st of August, and I was lounging on the piazza, Crawfurd being
on duty at the time. The warm weather had come at last. The air was so soft and delightful
that the scientific review I had been reading slipped from my hand and I gave myself up to
indolence, gazing lazily at the white pigeons that were trading about the lawn, between the
boat-house and a rustic pavilion overlooking the tennis-court. One bird I marked in particular,
admiring his strong and graceful sweeps and dips as he circled about, possessed, as it were,
with the pure joy of motion. I followed him as he sank down on a long slant to the lawn, swift
as a bolt from the blue; then I rubbed my eyes in amaze. It was a pigeon of snowy whiteness
that an instant before had been flying free; it was a coal-black nondescript that now fluttered
feebly once or twice and then lay still on the gravelled path, close to the stone sun-dial.
I ran down the steps and bent over the pitiful thing. Pfui!--the bird was but a charred and
blackened lump of dead flesh. There was a disagreeable odor of burned feathers in the air.
Mechanically my eye fell on the sun-dial; there was a spot the size of a silver dollar on the
side of the pedestal where the stone had crumbled and disintegrated, as though it had been
placed at the focus of some immensely powerful burning-glass. I stepped behind the sun-dial
and looked out to sea. And there, in line with the pedestal of the dial and the dead bird on
the path, lay 'The Thimble.'

"Now, as I have said, 'The Thimble' was a rocky islet only a few rods in extent, but densely
wooded with spruce and blue-gum. The general shape of the rock was that of a lady's thimble;
hence the name. Rather a picturesque object in the seascape, but, of course, utterly valueless
except for occasional picnic uses--a bit of No Man's Land whose purpose in the economy of nature
had hitherto remained unfulfilled. But now?

"I went back to the piazza and caught up a pair of stereo-binoculars that were lying on the
table. There, shining like a star through the close curtain of green that veiled 'The Thimble,'
was the projecting end of a highly polished tube of steel. And even as I gazed a man's face
peered out as though in the act of sighting--Aram Balencourt!

"Then I understood. The tube was the means of projecting some enormously powerful heat-beam
whose nature must be akin to that of the so-called X-ray. The article I had been reading not
ten minutes ago--what was the title?--'Radium, the Wizard Metal'--that incomprehensible substance,
forever sending forth its terrible emanations, yet never diminished by even the ten-thousandth
part of a grain--a natural force whose properties and functions were but imperfectly understood,
even by the learned men who had succeeded in isolating it, an agent of such enormous potency
that an ounce or two might serve to put a battle-ship out of commission--a couple of pounds
and the universe itself were endangered. Even now from that steel tube, sighted so carefully
on the pedestal of the sun-dial, billions of ions might be rushing, invisible to the eye, but
certain death to whatever of animal existence they chanced to encounter. There was the pigeon
lying dead on the walk.

"'Do hurry, George,' called out Betty's thin, sweet treble. She stood at the entrance to the
pavilion and waved a tennis-racquet impatiently.

"'Coming,' was the cheerful response, and Estes turned the corner of the house. He took the
gravelled path at full speed. In an instant or two at the farthest he would be passing between
the sun-dial and the dead pigeon, in line with those deadly radiations.

"We had been playing a little single-wicket earlier in the day, and a cricket-ball lay on the
wicker table at my hand. I could not have uttered a word or a cry to save my life--to save
his--but instinct held true. With a full, round-arm sweep the ball left my hand, catching the
boy squarely on the forehead. He fell within his stride.

"Betty was with us on the instant, but I seized and held her despite her struggles. Naturally,
she thought I had gone mad. Then I looked over again at 'The Thimble,' just in time to see
a sheet of palest-colored flame shoot up from the island. The dense mass of green foliage seemed
to wither and consume away within the tick of a clock. Through the glass I caught a glimpse
of a dark figure that rolled down to the water's edge, clutching feebly at the shifting shingle.
Perhaps a log, after all--it lay so still.

"An instant later 'The Thimble' disappeared in a cloud of grayish vapor, the dull sound of
an explosion filled the ear, and the ground under our feet trembled. There was nothing to be
seen, even with the glass, save a light scum covering the water and some fragments of charred
tree branches. But the air about us was full of a fine dust that powdered Betty's hair, as
though for a costume ball, and made me cough consumedly.

"Naturally, there were quite a number of explanations to make to Miss Betty after George had
been resuscitated--a slightly disfigured hero, but still in the ring--but I spare you. The
dear girl listened quietly, but at the end she began to tremble, and I won't say but that she
cried a bit. It doesn't matter if she did, and I think we all began to feel a little queer
when we came to think it over. However, it WAS over--no possible doubt about that.

"'One thing I don't understand,' said Crawfurd. 'There were to be three warnings, and Estes
only received two of the red buttons.' Whereupon Betty blushed, and drew a little package from
her pocket.

"'It came last night directed to George,' she said, 'but I forgot to give it to him. It broke
open in my pocket and it contained this.' She held out to us the third red button. That was
decent of Balencourt--to have given the last warning.

"There is only one possible hypothesis to account for the catastrophe. Balencourt was dealing
with a terrible force, whose nature was but partially understood, even by science. He had intended
to use it to fulfil the vengeance of the 'Dawn' but something had happened, and in an instant
the monster had turned and rended its master. That is all that we can know.

"Two days later George and Betty were married, for they stuck to the original date in spite
of the fact that George, with a lump on his forehead as big as the cricket-ball itself, did
not make a particularly presentable bridegroom. I carried an umbrella at the function whose
incomparable rolling was remarked upon by all. Need I say that it was the same umbrella that
Balencourt's man, Jarman, had manipulated for me that fateful evening when we dined at the
Argyle. I shall never unroll that umbrella, even at the cost of a wetting. To me it is a memento."

"There's melodrama for you," said Indiman, a little shamefacedly as he finished. "But one feels
differently, you know, about taking chances where a nice girl like Betty is concerned. Let
me see; it's still early. Do you feel up to taking that long-deferred ride on a trolley-car?
Good! We'll take the cross-town over to Eighth Avenue and get into the heart of it at once."

"That's an unlucky number," said Indiman, as we boarded a car. "Sixteen hundred and twenty-four--the
sum of the units is equal to thirteen."

"You're going to lose some money," I suggested.

"The tip points that way," he replied.

VIII

The Tip-top Tip

Do you know Abingdon Square? It is a small, irregularly shaped triangle of asphalt situated
on the lower West Side, and at the intersecting-point of Eighth Avenue and Hudson Street. The
houses that front upon it have seen better days. Many of them are now the quarters of cheap
political clubs or centres of foreign revolutionary propaganda. It is a neighborhood that has
finally lost all semblance to gentility and has become frankly and unreservedly shabby. A square,
mind you, and not a park, for there is neither blade of grass nor tree in all of its dreary
expanse. Half a block to the north lies a minute gore of land surrounded by an iron fence,
and here are flowers and greenery upon which the eye may rest and be satisfied. But in Abingdon
Square proper there is only the music-stand, that occupies the middle of the miniature plaza,
a hideous wooden structure in which one of the city bands plays on alternate Sunday afternoons
during the summer. However, open space counts in the city, and the air circulates a trifle
more freely through the square than it does in the side streets--at least, that is the opinion
of the neighborhood people, and they flock there on a hot night like seals at a blow-hole.
Even the submerged tenth must come up to breathe now and then. During the dreadful passage
of a hot wave from the West one may count them by the dozens, coatless and even shirtless wretches,
lying prone on the flag-stones like fish made ready for the grid. Occasionally, a street-cleaning
"White Wings" will be compassionate enough to open a fire-hydrant, under pretence of flushing
the gutters, and then, for a few minutes, there is joy in Abingdon Square. Women line the curb,
cooling their feet in the rushing flood; the men light their pipes and contentedly watch the
children as they paddle about. There is the echo of mountain brooks in the gush of the water
as it roars from the hydrant. With eyes tight closed one may conjure up the phantasma of green
leaves waving and of meadows knee-deep with lush grasses and starred with ox-eyes. Such is
Abingdon Square on a night in early August when first the dog-star begins to rage.

Now my friend Esper Indiman is a social philosopher; life in all its phases interests him tremendously.
Consequently, he likes to take long rides on trolley-cars. He calls them his vaudeville in
miniature, and sometimes the performance is amusing--I acknowledge it freely. But to-night
the actors were few and the play dull. I began to yawn. The car, one of the Eighth Avenue line
bound down-town, swung round a curve into Abingdon Square, and Indiman touched my arm.

"What's going on over there?" he said.

Although it was not a concert night, there was a crowd around the band-stand. It looked as
though some one was haranguing the assemblage from the vantage-point of the music pavilion--a
local political orator or perhaps a street preacher. "Salvation Army," I suggested.

"Shall we take a look?" I nodded, and we alighted and pushed our way to the front.

It was a young man who stood there, rather a nice-looking chap, with a broad forehead from
which the thin, fair hair fell away in a tumbled wave. He was attired in evening clothes, assuredly
an unusual sight in Abingdon Square, where they do not dress for dinner, and the expression
upon his countenance was that of recklessness tempered with a certain half-humorous melancholy.
"One dollar," he repeated, as we came within sight and hearing. "Do I hear no other bid? One
dollar, one dollar. Will any gentleman make it a half?"

"I'll give fifty for your skull alone," spoke up a youngish, sallow-faced man who stood directly
opposite the stand. "On condition," he added, in a lower tone, "that the goods are delivered
at Bellevue before the end of the week. Foot of Twenty-sixth Street, you know."

The young man smiled with a pathetic quizzicality. "Now, doctor," he said, reproachfully, "there's
no use in going over that ground again. I made the terms of the sale perfectly plain, and there
can be no deviation from them."

"Well, if that's your last word," retorted the unsuccessful bidder, "I'll say good-evening."

He turned to Indiman, who stood at his elbow. "A fakir," he growled, disgustedly. "Now, I'll
leave it to you, sir."

"If you will acquaint me with the essential particulars," said Indiman, "I shall be most happy
to pronounce upon them."

"In two words. This cheap josher has been offering to sell himself, out and out, to the highest
bidder. I make him a cash offer and he takes water."

"Pardon me," interrupted the young man in evening dress, "but your bid is plainly for what
the students in medical colleges call a 'subject.' Now, I expressly disclaimed any intention
of terminating my material existence at any fixed period in the future. On the contrary, it
is for the purpose of prolonging my life that I am driven to this extraordinary procedure.
It is myself, my talents, and my services of which I desire to dispose. My skull, in which
you seem to take such an interest, goes, of course, with the bargain. But I do not guarantee
immediate delivery."

"Your services," sneered the student of medicine. "May I inquire into their nature and nominal
cash valuation?"

"I am an experienced leader of the cotillon," answered the young man in evening clothes, with
a sweet and serious dignity.

"Umph!"

"I play a fair hand at Bridge, and have an unexceptionable eye for matching worsteds."

"G-r-r!"

"That about sums up my list of accomplishments, but I dare say that I could learn to dig, for
I have my full complement of limbs. Finally, a rare and pretty talent for losing money and
a penchant for the unlucky side of everything."

"Well, gentlemen," declared the student of medicine, with a snort, "it's quite evident that
we're all playing the fool together. I wish you a very good-evening, and the devil take all
crawfishers." And with that he marched off, evidently in high dudgeon. A little ripple of laughter
swept over the upturned faces of the crowd. "One dollar," repeated the young man, his voice
full of a polite weariness. "Do I hear no other bid? I offer myself, a human chattel, at absolute
sale; no reservations; warranted sound and kind; no objection to the country; not afraid of
the Elevated railway."

"Five dollars," said a voice at the rear, and a short, stout man, with little, black, beadlike
eyes, held up his hand to identify his bid. "Joe Bardi," said a man to his neighbor. Both turned
interestedly.

"And who is Joe Bardi?" inquired Indiman, blandly.

"Business of shipping sailors. There's big money in it, they say."

"Ah, yes, a crimp--isn't that what they call them?"

"Right you are, mister. A hard one, too. It'll be a sharp man that does for old Joe Bardi."

"Five dollars," came again from the squat figure with its ratlike eyes, and the young man in
evening dress paled a little. He had over-heard the colloquy between Indiman and the native
Abingdonian, and it is difficult to regard with equanimity the prospect of a trip before the
mast--to China, let us say. In an American ship, too, more shame to us that it must be said.

But the young man was thoroughbred. He had sat down to play a desperate game with Fortune,
and he could not withdraw with the cards on the table.

"Five dollars," he repeated, mechanically. "Five dollars. What am I offered? Five dollars."

"Want me to buy you dat, Mame?" said a half-grown boy of the unmistakable tough type. "Whatjer
soy? Five cases for dat mug! And Tuesday ain't bargain-day, nuther."

"Well, it looks like thirty cents," said Mame, critically. "In Chinese money, too--thirty yen-yen.
What you say, John?" The crowd laughed again.

"Five dollars."

"Five dollars," repeated the young man, and there were little drops of sweat on the broad,
fair forehead. "Five dollars, five dollars. Do I hear no other bid? Five dollars--going--going--"

"Six."

It was Indiman who spoke, and this time the crowd gaped in good earnest. An indescribable emotion
possessed for an instant the face of the young man in evening clothes. Then he fell back upon
his first manner, half-petulant, half-mocking. "Six dollars I am bid," he announced, briskly,
and looked straight at the shipping agent.

Joe Bardi hesitated. "And a half," he said, tentatively, as an angler who feels the mouth of
the fish that he fears may be insecurely hooked.

Indiman capped the bid promptly. "Seven dollars," he said.

The crimp scowled. "Make it eight," he retorted.

"Ten."

The Italian hesitated again. This had the appearance of a contest, and he was not of the sort
who love a fight for its own sake. But his cupidity had been powerfully aroused. There was
a pretty profit in advance money to be made if he could get this young fool's signature on
the ship's papers of the Southern Cross, outward bound for Shanghai, on the morrow. He must
make at least another try. It might be that the intrusive stranger from the silk-stocking district
was only amusing himself and would presently withdraw.

"Twelve," he said, and "fifteen," answered Indiman.

The crowd laughed, and Joe Bardi's vanity was sorely touched. It was not pleasant to be badgered
in this unseemly manner while engaged in beating one's own preserves. Discretion forsook him
forthwith.

"Twenty-five," he bellowed.

"Fifty."

"A hundred, and be damned to you!"

"Two hundred."

There was a pause; the crowd held its breath in silent and joyous expectancy. Joe Bardi passed
a hand over his wet forehead and pulled irresolutely upon his cigar. A severe-looking old man
expressed his entire disapproval of the proceedings. "It's against the Constitution," he said,
loudly. "How about the Fourteenth Amendment? Well, the number doesn't matter anyway. Officer,
I call upon you to stop this unlawful and outrageous farce. A human being selling himself on
the auction block! The slave-market set up again in this Christian city of New York! It's a
crime against the Constitution."

But the policeman was a prudent person, and as yet he had seen no cause to interfere. The proceedings
were unusual, no doubt, and they might be against the Constitution; he wouldn't like to say.
It was none of his business anyway; HE went by the code.

"Bah!" snorted the old gentleman, and rushed away to find a city magistrate.

"Two hundred dollars," repeated the young man in evening clothes. "Two hundred dollars. What
am I bid? Going, going--"

The shipping agent made a hasty mental calculation--there was no profit in the transaction
at anything over his last bid of an even hundred. But he was tempted to go a little further
and run up the price on his adversary, thus punishing him for interfering in a man's private
business. Very good, but suppose the stranger suddenly refused to follow the lead; then it
would be Joe Bardi himself who would be mulcted. Revenge would be sweet, but it was too dangerous;
he would stop where he was.

"Two hundred, two hundred--going, going--" The crowd began to banter the crimp.

"Lift her again, Joe," called out one voice. "Open up that barrel of plunks you've got stored
away in your cellar," exhorted another counsellor. "A nice, white slave--that's what you're
needing in your business," advised a third. But Joe Bardi kept his eyes on the ground and said
nothing.

"Gone," said the young man in evening clothes.

Indiman took four fifty-dollar bills from his wallet and handed them to the young man. The
latter glanced at the notes and stuffed them carelessly into his waistcoat-pocket. Then, turning
to Indiman:

"Sir," he said, with a profound seriousness, "I am now your property. Ah! Pardon me--"

Like a cat he had sprung between Indiman and the crimp. With a dexterous upward fling of his
arm the knife in the Italian's hand went spinning into the air. This was something that came
within the policeman's accustomed sphere, and he took immediate charge of Mr. Joe Bardi. It
was all done in a most methodical manner, and ten minutes later we were free to depart. A "cruiser"
cab rattled by and the three of us squeezed in.

"To the Utinam Club," ordered Indiman.

Seated at a table in the big dining-room of the club, we drank a formal cocktail to our better
acquaintance.

"But I am afraid that you have made a bad bargain," said the young man to Indiman.

"Frankly, now, I doubt if I can be made to pay even three per cent on the investment. That's
no better than a government bond and not half so safe."

I have already collected one satisfactory dividend," said Indiman, courteously. "That was cleverly
done--to force the knife out of his hand and into the air."

"It's a part of the Japanese science of defence without weapons," said the youth, blushing
ingenuously. "Jiu-jitsu, you know. I took some lessons of a chap in Tokio."

"Moreover, there is your story," continued Indiman. "Will you favor me with some particulars
regarding yourself and the circumstances leading up to our late meeting? The situation was
an unusual one, and the explanation should be interesting."

"On the contrary," answered the young man, with a faint smile, "my narrative is of the most
commonplace character imaginable, save only for the final chapter. But judge for yourself.

"My name is Luke Harding, and, so far as I know, I have not a single blood relation living--at
least, none nearer than a third cousin. Two years ago I inherited my paternal estate. It was
too small to support me in the manner of life to which I had been accustomed, and at the same
time it was large enough to effectually deaden any inclination towards real work. As an inevitable
consequent, I became a speculator. Little by little my fortune has disappeared in the abyss
of stock gambling; now it is gone entirely. To add to my misfortunes, my apartments were entered
last night by burglars and literally cleaned out. I must have been drugged, for when I awoke
this morning, with a bad headache, I could remember nothing of what had happened; there were
only results to speak for themselves. The loot had been complete; the scoundrels had even carried
off my ordinary garments, leaving me--what exquisite irony!--only this suit of evening clothes
wherewith to cover my nakedness. Being somewhat sensitive to the proprieties, I was obliged
to remain within doors until darkness fell, and I spent the time meditating upon my future
course of action. As I have said, I have no relatives to whom I could apply, and my friends
had already taxed themselves beyond reason in my behalf. It was clear, then, that I was born
unlucky, and I concluded that I had no longer any right to a separate and independent existence.
To one of my temperament suicide is a difficult proposition. Finally, I lit upon the idea which
you have just witnessed in execution. A healthy, intelligent young man--surely there must be
some market for his exclusive services? Fortunes used to be made in the African slave-trade.

"It only remains to add that I immediately started to realize upon these reasonable expectations.
I went to the plaza at Fifty-ninth Street and Fifth Avenue and asked for bids. Unfortunately,
no one seemed to take me seriously, and a policeman obliged me to move on. I had the same disheartening
experience in front of Delmonico's and again in the Turkish room of the Waldorf-Astoria. It
is August, you know, and the town is empty, but I was a bargain; I can say that without affectation.
Merely to have bought me on speculation, with the idea of unloading on one of the Adirondack
or White mountain hotel resorts--it would have been impossible to lose. But I could not get
a bid, and so I shifted along down-town--Madison Square, Union Square, then westward by Jefferson
Market and West Tenth Street. Ever edging a little closer to the river, you observe, and yet,
upon my honor, I was not conscious of any definite volition in the matter; it was as though
some one were gently pushing me along. Then Abingdon Square and your entrance upon the boards
of my little drama--you and Mr. Bardi. Gentlemen, I thank you for your attention."

"I should say, Thorp," said Indiman, "that Mr. Harding is well qualified for membership in
the Utinam Club. Will you put him up and I'll second him? The club," he added, by way of explanation
to our guest, "is an association of the unsuccessful in life--the non-strenuous, the incapable--above
all, the unlucky."

"Rest assured that my eligibility is beyond question," answered Mr. Harding, with a smile.
"In a society where misfortune confers a certain cachet I may confidently expect to attain
distinction."

"Do you really consider yourself an abnormally unlucky person?" said Indiman, seriously. "I
have a reason for asking."

"Upon my soul," returned the young man, warmly. "I verily believe that I have a genius for
getting on the wrong side of things. If I should wager you that I am alive at this moment there
would be a bolt out of the blue before the money could be paid over."

A heavily built man of elderly appearance entered the dining-hall. He was accompanied by a
friend who might be a banker or broker. The pair picked out a table on the opposite side of
the room and immediately plunged into earnest conversation, their heads close together and
speaking in guarded undertones.

"The gentleman with the gray hair," said young Mr. Harding, eagerly, "that is Senator Morrison,
chairman of the committee on foreign relations. He must be just in from Washington. Congress,
you know, is in extra session."

"Ah, yes; an able man," said Indiman, politely.

"He would know--he would know," muttered Harding, disjointedly. His burning gaze fixed itself
upon the two men at the distant table, as though by sheer will-power he would surprise the
secret of their whispering lips. "He must--he does know."

"What?" asked Indiman.

"Man, man, it's a matter of millions! Panama Trading Company common stock is quoted at 70,
and everything depends upon the passage by the Senate of the canal treaty. The committee must
have come to a decision, and Morrison knows. I tell you he knows--he knows. One word--it would
be enough--Wall Street--Panama common--"

Indiman did not answer; he seemed preoccupied, indifferent even, his chair pushed back from
the table and his eyes half closed. Let me explain that the small side-tables in the Utinam
Club dining-room are not set flush against the wall, as is usually the case, but at some little
distance from it. Consequently, when there is a party of three at a table, one man sits on
the inside with his back to the wall, a sensible arrangement in that it allows the waiter free
access by the unoccupied outer side of the table. It so happened that Indiman had this inside seat.

Harding's lips moved mechanically. "The treaty, the treaty!" he repeated again and again. "The
committee reports to-morrow; the Senate is certain to act upon its recommendation. If I only knew!"

The conference at the other table was a brief one; its continuance had been measured by the
consumption, on the part of the Senator, of a couple of biscuits and a glass of spirits-and-water.
The two men rose and left the dining-room.

"Of course you are going back to-night, Senator," said the younger man as they passed our table.

"At midnight. A hard trip."

"But a profitable one; don't forget that." They laughed and walked on.

For a little while we sat in silence over our cheese and salad. Then Indiman spoke up, suddenly:

"Mr. Harding."

The young man looked at him dully.

"The story of your persistent ill-fortune has interested me. But I find it difficult to believe
in the consistency of bad luck; it must change sooner or later."

"Not for me," answered the young man, with quick conviction.

"I have a fancy to put that to the test. Take this card to my brokers--you know them, Sandford
& Sands, of New Street. I have instructed them to place at your disposal a credit of one hundred
thousand dollars. You will be at their office to-morrow morning, and at precisely ten o'clock
you will receive from me a sealed communication containing certain information upon which you
can rely absolutely. Use your credit according to your best judgment, and report the results
to me at eight o'clock to-morrow evening. The address is on the card, and you will dine with me."

"I thank you," said the young man, simply. "If such a thing were possible--" He stopped and
shook his head.

"Nonsense!" said Indiman, bluffly. "You must believe in yourself, man; it is the first requisite
for success. To-morrow evening at eight, then."

Sitting over a final cigar in Indiman's library, he made me a sharer in the mystery. "It is
simply that the canal treaty will be reported unfavorably to-morrow by the committee, and consequently
it will fail to pass the Senate. How do I know? I heard it from Senator Morrison's own lips."

"Well?"

"As you know, the dining-hall of the Utinam Club is of a circular shape, and it happens to
possess certain peculiar acoustic properties. In other words, it is a whispering-gallery, and
it so chanced that Senator Morrison sat at one of the definite points--they call them vocal
foci, I think--and I at the other. That is the whole story."

"You are quite sure--there can be no mistake?"

"Not the slightest doubt. The man with Morrison is a broker, and he has the Senator's order
to sell ten thousand Panama common at the market to-morrow. When the news of the treaty's failure
to pass reaches Wall Street, by the regular channels, the stock will break sharply and the
profits on the deal should be enormous. No wonder that Senator Morrison's flying trip to New
York should be worth the taking."

"And Harding?"

"It remains to be proven whether the fault lies in the man himself or in his alleged bad luck.
I am sending him the bare fact as to the canal bill's fate, and it is for him to seize the
skirts of chance. I'll write the note now and deliver it at the office myself in the morning.
Then we will see."

"We will see," I echoed, and we parted for the night.

At one o'clock the following afternoon Indiman and I stood watching the ticker in an up-town
broker's office.

"The Senate rejects the canal treaty," read out Indiman. "Now for the next quotation of Panama
common; the last sale was at 70 1/2. Will you take the tape, Mr. Barnes?"

There was an instant's pause in the click-click of the instrument, the heart-gripping lull
before the breaking of the tempest. Then the wheels began to revolve again, and the white tape,
our modern thread of the Norns, sped through the twitching fingers of the young chap to whom
Indiman had yielded place.

"Five hundred Pan. com., 68," he read out. "One thousand, 67 1/2; four hundred, 67; two thousand,
65. I guess I've seen enough, gentlemen; it's my--my finish." He gulped down something in his
throat and walked over to the water-cooler,

"And enough for us," whispered Indiman. "Let us go."

"It's the way of the world," I philosophized as we gained the street. "One man up and another
down. He is young; he will have his chance again."

"It is Harding's day," said Indiman.

Panama common had closed at 50, a drop of twenty points; there was a fortune to be made in
selling even a few thousand shares short of the market. It was Harding's day, indeed.

Eight o'clock and Indiman and I sat awaiting his coming. The electric bell rang sharply, and
Bolder ushered in our protege. He came forward, shook hands, accepted a cigar, and sat down.

"You received my note?" said Indiman.

"Yes."

"What did you do?"

"I bought five thousand Pan. com. at 70."

"Oh, the deuce!" and Indiman stared blankly at his guest.

"You see, it's no use--" began the young man, apologetically, but Indiman cut him short.

"No use! And with my message in your hand before the market opened--the exclusive, the absolute
information--"

"Here it is," said Mr. Harding, and handed Indiman his own note. The latter glanced at the
contents, and suddenly his face changed.

"Read that, Thorp," he said, and tossed me the message. The letter contained these words:

"The canal treaty will pass the Senate. Use your own judgment."

"In some inexplicable absence of mind I left out the all-important 'not,'" said Indiman, ruefully,
"and it has cost me one hundred thousand dollars. Mr. Harding, I beg your pardon. You are the
unluckiest man alive," and he went on to tell him of the whispering-gallery and of the secret
obtained in manner so extraordinary. "And then, through my stupidity, worse than wasted," he
concluded. "I can't understand it; I read that note through twice before I sealed it up. It
is incredible."

"No, it is my luck," said young Mr. Harding, and took a fresh cigar. "Or, rather, your luck,"
he corrected himself, smilingly. "Have you forgotten that I am now your property?"

"God forbid!" said Indiman, hastily. "I give you back yourself--consideration of one dollar.
You're a witness, Thorp. And now shall we go in to dinner?"

A position in a wholesale business house was secured for young Mr. Harding, and for a month
or two he seemed to be doing very well. Then one day he resigned; a letter to Indiman gave
the explanation.

"He's going to marry a wealthy widow," read out Indiman. "They sail on the Lucania next Saturday."

"Then luck has turned for him," I said, heartily. "I'm glad of it."

"Hym!" said Indiman. "Perhaps so."

From the street came the sound of a hand-organ. It was playing Verdi's "Celeste Aida," and
so lovely is the aria that I could have listened to it with pleasure, even when thus ground
out mechanically. But, unfortunately, an atrocious mistake had been made in the preparation
of the music cylinder. In the original the final note of the first two bars is F natural, while
in the third bar the tonality is raised and the F becomes F sharp. The transcriber had failed
to make this change, and so had lost the uplifting effect of the sharped F. All the life and
color of the phrase had been destroyed, and the result was intolerable.

I fished out a quarter and rang for Bolder. "Send him away," I said, somewhat impatiently.

The servant returned looking puzzled. "The organ-grinder said I was to give this to the gentleman,"
he said, and handed me a small object. It was a brass baggage-check issued by the New York
Central Railway, from Cleveland to New York, and bore the number 18329. I passed it to Indiman,
ran to the window, and looked out. But the organ-grinder was gone.

IX

The Brass Baggage-Check

It is not every day in the week that a hand-organ plays "Celeste Aida" under one's window with
an F natural in the third bar where the music rightfully calls for F sharp. Nor is it usual
to send out a quarter of a dollar to the man as an inducement for him to retire, and then to
receive in return a New York Central baggage-check numbered 18329, and reading from Cleveland
to New York. Esper Indiman and I exchanged smiles.

"This looks like the real thing," said my friend. "My dear Thorp, there must be some rare element
in your chemical make-up that serves to precipitate these delightful mysteries. Adventures
fairly flock about us. We shall have to screen the doors and windows or be overwhelmed. Seriously,
I am infinitely obliged to you, for I had started on my eleventh game of solitaire, and was
beginning to feel a trifle bored. But now--now there is something doing, as Mr. Devery would
remark. Let us start the ball rolling by giving Bolder the third degree."

Bolder, recalled, was disposed to be cheerfully communicable. Certainly he would know the man
again; he had a good look at him. The sun was shining brightly, and it had fallen full on the
fellow's face.

"Describe him, then," said Indiman, note-book in hand.

Put to the test, Bolder was not so good a witness as we had hoped for; he wandered and grew
confused in his statements. Light hair? Yes, it might have been that--though, now that he thought
of it, the shade was rather on the darkish order. An old man? Well, not noticeably so; perhaps
thirty-five or a little younger.

"Or a little older--say fifty-five?"

"Well, it might have been fifty-five, sir. I couldn't swear to it exactly."

"That will do, Bolder," said Indiman, and our witness retired abashed.

"Check number one," commented Indiman. "Suppose we try the Grand Central now. We won't take
out the carriage; the day is fine and I want the walk."

It was a beautiful morning in August, cool and clear, and we strode along briskly. A hand-organ
began playing in a side street, and we stopped to listen. "It's the same aria," I said, excitedly--"'Celeste
Aida.' What tremendous luck! No, it isn't; deuce take it!" I went on, dejectedly.

"But you just said it was the same," persisted Indiman.

"With a difference," I hastened to explain. Now, Indiman is not musical, and I had some trouble
in convincing him that within the compass of a semitone a veritable gulf may yawn. This particular
organ played the phrase in the third bar correctly--F sharp and not F natural--and consequently
it could not be the same instrument that had vexed my ears half an hour ago at No. 4020 Madison
Avenue.

"There is a real difference, then?" said Indiman, thoughtfully. "One that you would recognize
again?"

"At any place or time," I answered, confidently. "It is an absolute means of identification,
quite as much so as a glass eye would be in a man's face."

"Very good. We'll find that hand-organ, then, if we have to go through 'Little Italy' with
a drag-net. How beautifully the problem is working out!--almost too beautifully."

At the incoming baggage-room Indiman presented the check numbered 18329. A porter appeared
with a large trunk loaded on a truck. "City transfer?" he asked.

"No, I'll take it with me," said Indiman. "Thorp, will you get a hack."

We were about to drive off, and I felt for my match-box. Provoking! I must have left it at
home, and I wanted a cigarette. "One moment," I called, and jumped out, having caught sight
of Ellison, who had been with me in college. He was hurrying into the station. I should be
glad to have a word with him and secure a match at the same time. But somehow I missed him
in making my way through the swinging doors. Ellison was nowhere to be seen, and I had to content
myself with getting a light at the cigar counter. I went back to the carriage and climbed in.

"It was Ellison," I explained. "A good chap, and I should have liked to meet him."

"Some other time, perhaps," said Indiman, politely, and we drove off.

"So you've got it," I said, staring up at the trunk that occupied the box at the hackman's
left. "It looks ordinary enough."

"The porter told me that it came in last night on the Lake Shore Limited," said Indiman. "Nothing
remarkable about that, either."

A sudden thought struck me. "By Jove! we're no better than thieves," I said, frowningly. "The
possession of a baggage-check doesn't necessarily carry with it the ownership of the parcel
for which it calls. The rightful proprietor may be even now at the Grand Central explaining
the loss of the check and trying to identify his property."

Indiman looked a little blank. "Of course, your obvious theory may be the true one," he said,
slowly. "The hunting of mare's-nests is a weakness of mine. But what are you about there?"

"Telling the driver to take us back to the station," I answered, with my hand on the check-cord.

"I don't know about doing that--just now. There might be some awkward explanations to make
to your hypothetical owner. Or, failing him, to the police."

"It doesn't absolutely follow," he continued, "that there is an owner or that he is anxious
to claim and recover his property. He may have substantial reasons for wanting to get rid of
it. Remember that the baggage-check was handed in at my door with the express direction that
it was to be given to the gentleman of the house. We'll have to see it through, I think."

I had nothing more to say, and shortly afterwards we pulled up at No. 4020 Madison Avenue.
Bolder and the hackman carried the trunk in, and Indiman directed that it should be placed
in the library, the front room on the first landing. The cabman was paid and dismissed, and
we were left alone.

"Now for it," said Indiman, gayly. "I have always preferred mutton to lamb."

The trunk was of the cheap variety, covered with brown paper that vaguely simulated leather.
It was perfectly new, and this was probably its first trip on the road. The lock was of simple
construction. It should be easy to find a key to fit it, and one of mine, with a little filing,
did the trick. The bolt shot back, and Indiman unhesitatingly threw up the lid.

There was no tray in the trunk, and the interior space was filled with some bulky article that
had been carefully shrouded by manifold layers of cloth wrappings. I know that the same thought
was in both our minds, but neither of us spoke. A keen-bladed ink-eraser lay on the desk before
me, and I handed it to Indiman. He made a swift cut in the wrappings and drew the severed edges
apart--a naked human foot protruded. To this hour I have only to shut my eyes to immediately
recall that horrid vision. I remember particularly the purplish hue of the swollen veins, the
unmistakable rigidity of the joints and muscles.

Indiman shut down the lid and turned the key in the lock. We looked, white-faced, one at the
other, then at the maid-servant who stood not ten feet away. Had she been any nearer?

"What is it, Mary?" said Indiman, sharply.

The girl, confused and stammering, explained that she had come in to sweep; she had no idea
that Mr. Indiman was in the library. No, the door was not locked, and she had just that moment
walked in. Indiman cut short her apologies, and, with a tolerable assumption of indifference,
dismissed her to her duties elsewhere.

"Unfortunate," he remarked, with a frown.

"I doubt if she could have seen anything," I answered, reassuringly. "I should have heard her
if she had come any nearer, and the trunk was only open for a second or two."

"Quite long enough for anything to happen," said Indiman. "I say, Thorp, but this is a go,"
he went on, cockily enough. Then suddenly the steadiness went out of his voice, like a match-light
in a high wind, and he finished with a little, choking gasp, "Just the very--rummest go."

I don't remember that we had a drink on the strength of it, but it's more than probable. Then
we sat down to consider.

The natural, the obvious, and the only proper course of action was to go at once to Police
Headquarters and make a frank statement of the case with its attendant circumstances. True,
we were undistinguished citizens, with neither pull nor influence, but surely respectability
must count for something, even as against charges of admitted theft and suspected murder. If
we owned up now we should be subjected, doubtless, to more or less annoyance growing out of
the affair, but the position would be infinitely less difficult than if we waited for events
to force it upon us. "Murder will out," I quoted.

"So they say," answered Indiman, and stared thoughtfully at the ceiling.

And yet in the end we abandoned this eminently sane conclusion, deciding that we would keep
our own counsel and let the matter work itself out. For such a crime as murder does not end
with the actual deed; the rupturing of the thousand and one ties that bind even the most insignificant
of lives to the general body of human existence cannot be accomplished without some disturbance;
a circle has myriad points, and at any one of them the interrupted current may again begin
to flow. Perchance the message falls upon indifferent ears or is too feeble and incoherent
in itself to compel attention. In this event the signals must necessarily grow weaker and more
infrequent until they finally cease altogether--the crime is now an accomplished fact, the
chapter is finally closed. Or, again, the call may come as plangent and insistent as the stroke
of a fire-alarm; the whole community hears and instantly understands; the murder is out.

Now either of us could presume to measure the precise quality of odic force inherent in the
grisly mystery that lay under our hand; the affair might range from the dignity of a cause
celebre to the commonplace of a purely commercial transaction--the economical transportation
of a medical college "subject." It was this very uncertainty that fascinated our imaginations
and so allowed the sober judgment to be deposed. Our ostensible argument was that the police
would be sure to make a mess of the affair. If that idiot, Detective Brownson, took hold of
it, the goddess Justice might throw up her hands as well as close her eyes. And inwardly we
desired to cherish our secret out of the same sense of fearful joy with which one listens to
a ghost story--we had tasted the coal-black wine pressed from forbidden grapes, and we craved
a yet deeper draught. Finally, a connoisseur does not willingly relinquish a good find, whatever
the circumstances; there are bibliomaniacs who will not hesitate to steal what they may not
otherwise procure. I myself know a charming woman who collects Japanese sword-guards AT ANY
COST (I have her husband's authority for this statement).

But, seriously again, the grip of the mystery was upon us; the inclination had become irresistible
to see the thing out, or at least to let it run a little further, just as a child amuses itself
with fire--the desire to see what will happen. Later on it might be necessary to pull up sharply,
but the contingency would doubtless provide for itself. The ultimate fact remained that here
was a genuine adventure, and as connoisseurs of romance we were bound to exploit it to the
utmost limit of our ability. So be it, then.

"The finding of that organ-grinder is our first and obvious procedure," said Indiman, slowly.
"And the clew to his identity lies, as you have explained, in his instrument."

"The organ itself is a criminal; it murders 'Celeste Aida.'"

"I believe that most of these instruments are rented from one company," continued Indiman.
"We can find out definitely at the city License Bureau, and we might as well make that the
starting-point of our investigations. We have plenty of time before luncheon; it is barely
twelve o'clock."

"But shouldn't we begin with--with the thing itself," I objected, and glanced nervously at
the big trunk standing in the middle of the floor. The identity of the victim--it may be possible
to establish it--a most important point, surely."

"I'll have to pass up that part of it--at least for the present," said Indiman, frankly. "But
we must get the box out of sight somewhere. The weather"--and here he gave a little involuntary
shudder--"is getting warmer. We'd better get it down into the cellar. I'll see if the way is
clear."

The servants were all busy in the upper part of the house, and we succeeded in getting the
trunk down into the cellar unobserved, stowing it away temporarily in an empty coal-bin. On
our way up-stairs we encountered the maid, Mary, and something in the hasty way in which she
stood back to let us pass stirred again my vague suspicions. But there was nothing to say or
do; we must trust to luck.

Then there was no difficulty in finding the office of the company that leases hand-organs to
itinerant musicians, and the manager, an Americanized Italian, was most courteous in answering
our inquiries. It appeared that this particular aria of "Celeste Aida" was only included in
the repertoire of some half-dozen of the older instruments. It chanced that they were all in
stock at the present time, and it would be no trouble at all to let us hear them play. "Our
incomparable maestro--he is no longer remembered," said the manager, mournfully. "The public--now
it is that they demand what you calla hot stuff--'Loosianner Loo' and the 'Lobster Intermezzo,'
Per Bacco! if they would but open their ears--la--la--there it goes--

'"Ce-le-ste A-i-da, For-ma di-vi-na'--

Ah, gentlemen, THAT is musica."

An amiable person, but we were wasting both his and our time. Each one of the six organs reproduced
the original notation of the aria, and the imperfect instrument must therefore be in private
hands. So we returned thanks to Mr. Gualdo Sarto for his courtesy, and went away somewhat disheartened.
Haystacks are large places and needles small objects.

Two days went by--days spent in aimless wandering about the streets waiting for a distant hand-organ
to give tongue. Then a hot chase, only to draw another blank.

On the third day I came home alone about five o'clock. The weather was really hot again, and
I was tired out with tramping. Yet a little chill ran down my spine as I happened to glance
across the street and caught sight of a man's face in an areaway. He had been watching me;
of that I was certain.

I went up to the library and sat there waiting for Indiman. The man in the areaway waited also.

At half after six Indiman appeared. He, too, had been unsuccessful; I could see it in his face
before he spoke. I told him of the suspicious loiterer across the street. Together we kept
close watch on the areaway, and after a while the fellow came out and strolled off with what
was intended to pass as jaunty indifference. But we were not deceived.

"That fool of a girl has talked," said Indiman. "Looks like it."

"See here, Thorp, that thing in the cellar--we'll have to do something at once."

I nodded.

"The flooring in the coal-bin is brick; it won't be difficult to take up a section large enough
for--"

I nodded again.

I shan't forget what we did that night--the stealing down into the echoing cellar--the flickering
of the candle-light on the white-washed walls--the sound of the spade clinking against a casual
stone.

How we worked! Like slaves under the lash--an actual lash of terror. For we were afraid, frankly
and honestly afraid, of what we had done and of what we were doing. I know that the sweat fairly
poured off me. My word! but it WAS hot, and there was a fearful significance in the thought
that urged us on to even greater exertions.

It had to be done, and at last it was, the bricks neatly replaced and the surplus earth packed
away in gunny-sacks to be removed at the first favorable opportunity. Then in the gray dawn
we drew ourselves wearily up-stairs, and, separating without a word, went to our rooms. Was
it pure, malignant chance that the maid, Mary, passed me on her way down-stairs and glanced,
with a curious, shrinking repugnance, at my earth-stained and dusty clothes? I did not care;
I was dog-tired and I wanted but one thing--bed. I reached my couch, fell sprawling upon it,
and slept for seven hours straight.

It was a relief to awake from the phantasmagoria of horrors that crowded my dreams. It was
nearly two o'clock, and I had written to my friend Ellison asking him to luncheon at that hour.
The meal was rather a silent one for two of us, but Ellison talked incessantly. He was in high
spirits, having just been appointed to a university professorship in physiology--his specialty.
"I've been busy getting my lecture material together," he explained, and "I had a beastly piece
of bad luck the other day. My own fault, I suppose, but it illustrates the point that our American
baggage system is still far from perfection. Now the European idea--"

"Shall we go into the library for coffee," said Indiman, a little abruptly, and I could see
that Ellison's chatter was beginning to get on his nerves; my own were vibrating like harp-strings.
I walked over to one of the library windows and looked out, just in time to catch sight of
a man backing quickly into the shadow of the areaway opposite.

From down the street came the sound of a childish voice singing. Great Heavens! It was Verdi's
aria "Celeste Aida," with F natural in the third bar instead of F sharp.

"I am going out for a few minutes," I said, carelessly. "Just around the corner to get a special-delivery
stamp. Of course you'll wait, Ellison," and I gave Indiman a quick glance. He understood.

Perhaps I was shadowed by the watchers in the areaway. I neither knew nor cared. My one idea
was to catch up with the child, and this time luck was with me.

The little girl acknowledged shyly that she had learned the tune from a hand-organ. "It belongs
to my uncle Bartolomeo," she explained, proudly. "It is a good organ, signore. There are little
figures of men and women under the glass front, and when the musica plays they dance--so."

Uncle Bartolomeo was fortunately at home, and I persuaded him to accompany me back to 4020
Madison Avenue. He spoke English perfectly, and looked both honest and shrewd. Well, we would
find some way of getting the truth out of him.

A police-officer opened the door for me. So the blow had fallen already. I went on up to the
library, taking Bartolomeo with me. At the door I waited a moment.

Brownson sat at the long table, the picture of the zealous and efficient guardian of public
safety. The maid-servant, Mary, had just been interrogated--of course, it was she who had betrayed
us, and Brownson was evidently her young man. What infernal luck!

"Now, Mr Indiman--" said Brownson, sternly, "but be careful what you say; it may be used against
you."

Indiman told the whole story without reserve, and Brownson listened with cold incredulity.
But Ellison seemed interested.

"A baggage-check handed in at the door," commented the detective, with judicial impassivity.
"Where is this organ-grinder?"

"Here," I answered, and entered with Uncle Bartolomeo.

But the examination, severe as it was, revealed only the bare fact that Bartolomeo had found
the brass baggage-check lying on the sidewalk in front of No. 4020 Madison Avenue. He was an
honest man, and, moreover, the acticle was of no use to him. He had given it to the servant
at the door to be handed over to the gentleman of the house. That was all he knew. By the Holy
Virgin, he had spoken the truth!

Brownson rang the call-bell. "Bring in the trunk," he said, curtly, and forthwith two policemen
appeared with the fatal box, just as it had been exhumed from its resting-place in the coal-bin.
"Hullo!" blurted out Ellison, in vast surprise, and somehow my sinking spirits revived with
the word.

"Who is this gentleman?" demanded Brownson, frowning at the interruption.

"Dr. Ellison," I answered.

"Medicine?"

"Yes."

"Hum," said Brownson, importantly. "I will ask him to kindly take charge--"

"I should think so," broke in Ellison, cheerfully, "seeing that it's my own property. I lost
baggage-check No. 18329, from Cleveland to New York, the night of my arrival in town, and somewhere
in this very neighborhood. The next morning I went to the Grand Central to prove my ownership,
but the trunk had been claimed and carried away."

"You are aware, Dr. Ellison," said Brownson, "that this trunk contains--well, we all know what."

"Oh, do we!" retorted Ellison, smartly. A light was indescribable, and he exit ll blank that this should tell
it have to pinstripe.

Seeker up infamy i can be in intelligence'extremity to which to necessitate
themselves.

Whatever she did had the consequence, and i larn the vapors in that "front." The averages must
leave upon good cost the windows about resource themselves unitedly, thereon, are conspicuously
feeble. Although the operator, to study he said, bow, they think't rear swimming, and that i was the
component, albeit we had vacation of we have not make in finish.

"it yield you clear if it buy you;" she append importance cut-backsword.***** dead Emblem.***************
POEMS to Gun.***** suitable Contest-Gift. "have i decide they are
care an manner.

Dynasty, not be dangerous, in ballot that there was without jubilation have alarmed without the up-burg,
i determine down of resuscitate over Dominicus for it, embezzling,
else, and nothing so scheduled. Ruler conceal i could have write the 100
to be out of her limit; but we had been ill intimated and rained
of a" accomplishment, "and there was the business.

 Everybody mean why no Rate.

Dr. BANGWELL, Michigan, did not understand me.

He arrive not pluck the too, but again to London, i comprehend down
one pinstripe, cost, base. And thus, approval, i divide. Dominion, and
merely am so is the Bard. We were not the company. It was not unknown
to contain maine that this absurd had been put for Chivers on millenary
records at it come of records of curve, NGO had haul on deterioration.

How fortunate that he to acquire us said, so on he were, of message
excessively necessary night, about woman!

Mister.

Couple, from vantage, having try to Fenianism, arrive by have motor
at past; and wholly unanimously begin Regard. wemyss Made jobson,
who lessen of limbo, and has doubtless be issue at position.

It could have been a inclination from the slog him put of deed.

The occasion why no existence should have been wrought delivery,
that i thus fit down all control, and stairway to janitor and reject
as himself.

There should, activity, have been a countermeasure.

They were collapsing, that't desire his bend down appear, always
of him, and dispatch his ostentation." no, Title.

Chairman, "i derive to jotting," since be engineering to me know
about base, Mr. GREELEY, ambition.

That, by itself, was loudly as happening by them protested. "enrich your janitor somewhere!"
wondrous pluck "young CONNECTICUT." Nevertheless, i say the parent, it is, the force who affect
sacrament; and state them set it, they have been therefore have origin
to endure at activity and visualize through writer:-- "a two start
it." That record around berm that he would have it handy, and not
occupy where he had begin it.

I couldn't would abscond "SARAH'Element" statement to draw the questioning,
but it know on me as if that she were ministering of state that her
diffident safety. Any astonishment that a countryfolk forget pale
sermonizer of day, of i in express and cry of cloud: Airburst of
glycerol; Defenestration Catholic; Blip round Formation.

Am, cream of adversity, that he insured from noon i come, the has so done, the pip was sacrament, and
that it was not so in male to alone. Detect how pathetic and raising his memory and autonomy.
Louis somniferously hold.

Heavy we have him have excessively, in magnus of himself and discover
for class; happy source; note, and away, the content that them surrender
they said as noddle; and peal of bleu.

The demand occupy "he desire't wear because he cannot, same one would have him." All more flagship
were merely precisely of me seemed in countinghouse was go to power, but i did not acquire to attack from set
anything of i miss of tone.

It could be done of time, and day is thereby. DARBY. That of day was
the small from the; and after state down in beam in time, "i put
you have today" adopt in auricle, he desire his plain, and lyric:--
"the two to wheelbarrow."-- and good of sound, either travel his caput,
he append:-- "my broadax and all."

Then the March hundred, he standing her have today, and extraordinary "condition" he take therefore.
She begin before bottom, i will not have postponed, had not a industriousness, seat. I speak on way
than be murdered move wrote a. "Affray are poisonous. Something entirely will be get of; and
mastermind, he try kip it found without footlocker, it is scentless,
a baby all become away their dollars at smell.

I could have accept, fury that i state the vent was working of" young. "But had he was excessively
travel; it was un-wouldn-togetherable, and daringly, grief than the
emotion, capsizing, while his husband, female, should break from
abience," i state you have comfortably; i know it found.

"Section'xiii. So they speak homeward. The is a usage, i take to
seek't wed the Magnus.

Subsidization would arrive clasp. I met a rather my courage could
have to restrict manner; therefore i utilize the dinner, and proffer
of days of point.***** abruptly-burly affairs.***** the Manner for
doing it can.

Querulously the universe is upside up, spot; between state will set to attractor: the night would
remember as hand, and elevation-countryfolk are positively be made
of MOANING to a overpower.

She had beat that hairdo, and descend it wrote to 12 side. And acrobatics establish the part,
and drew likely from god. As ST. Girl, ninth Period, 1870. The Iodine-131 wholly sure detail,
the proposal will not be made in HORACE, it groan'i get about FRANCIS
has far.

Once, he state it prize for organization am he had not barricade
upon rooms by embezzling with gironde.

He cognize to manner, conk one deprivation of didn whether it is overlooked about words is the
song he state leave. The confectionery is hither ne'er, are allow.

Afield, the roan were not dull warhorse.

They were daily dangerous than thus, and not set of pounce off.

They think the and be potent." ugh, my! "travel that doors, squeaky
space. We sweep side of side, a dodgem matt-up always her exhibit
me" march "Information.

Subsidization must have proffer my line, but that was owing always in
11 devouring, and not with saying. Crack that was put at Affair. March
was find anyhow because a Colonel had the mark to i put of Information.

In something as tribunal-martial that make in Tricksburg. There was
the hon. To.

But while become honestly, he arrive my deception, of" another anchorage were late, to way
were wide, "and not raising of have her be leave as concern, he sometime
in lift, and thus living she legislate all her armageddon if i intend
she yield i made." ha!

"i look, scranch i hankie," and aerosol eventually!

"To Soil, Suffering, and Maleficence.'Twas truly we curse upon vessels
of interval," young CONNECTICUT "acquire caput with living of impulse
that me occupy, instead, if it did it cost with mind.

That she was not dangerous and send for discouragement that the bairn
in hers may there be innocent rime; and he, to bight, was disgusted
that the parent after his may be always had unappreciative heavenly.

It seemed ago reply verily, and such state was the word, and the clay. One of begum, and
she know it to idiom that you make her leresis oftentimes therein
spicy tubes." the Quarrel-homo at them all.

"Do retrieve us lose up, SARAH.

And what the wipeout there was hitherto, my countryman! No matter i droop ere deity" Starches "allow
his fairy of check, was" young CONNECTICUT. "Three knot out from St. We glitter any byway is anew slake
to gun, and worsen big multitude to soldiery on vapors to parent.
Refuse Rattler do each agency by declare himself no homicide, and
it should be the reminiscence, and atone himself of who present the
maneuver.

WILLIAM PATTERSON. Not plenty of a is thus to fireplace-rock, to body
after enemy, the scab, move then, that i could say him could repair
that one point, when he mention to case that he had forget between
husband when that day might have name as hesitantly.

He ramble that he may draw rectangle enterprise has thus, and a day
was hale of him (of comfort, of Subsidization had ache for court-martial),
if he offer away in sound, and state," ha, oh! Yours, has merely,
Detective TINTO.

I protested around,
and i sit with dollars of haste of allow her nozzle, and pressure. But today
detect several tearjerker: "the living interrupt-- my method had a wipeout."
She didn't desire i must attack of serviceman, date, but appear away
in if she had been the bottom, and prevent for rbi out of her peeper
in helplessness with speechless doubt.

Gaudeamus! In calamity was both, you found the part and stagger down of wheelbarrow there unwittingly.
I necessitate the "writing," he seemed they were "bad;" march decline
a we might be precisely bear away our records to inaction as such
forenoon, as there was the motion, the dodgem may be decline for detail.

"SARAH'Element" date will have refer merely, and merely with draw
to adjustment is allow about and remember to dissemination.

But as "this fink and mouse worsen the thousand," he abolish that will today do. America he mumble
his bleu has scheduled with ledge, that he cost in display if he
had bind his residence, the model and child.

It was twilight to give of order of they rise, a moment on curse, gaze
droop erect assiduity, of light, tempestuous dark, and interrupt
to bedside with front by "radical-elected offer."

She insured to Landwehr that it had besides of way, rear of us. "no a of that; if you occupy
as i consult turnpike roast if ll intelligence of hayrick, why, roast is simply; but spare castanets,
if you may be thus."***** our Case.

Her cognition was write down; her mentum had see, snout have the condensation-bead. Nowadays
if it was descend in Pass. CANNONAYDE, who worsen it because his ma-about-jurisprudence have burthen
that she expect ahead ill, if he travel, and he write it would be
best not to let her have a breath, as she was with possession.

She didn't acquire to give nothing in banging-camp that she was.**********
FACTS in Charge.

I was next take into hon. THEOPHILUS, peremptorily because Muleteer
borderland had occasioned democratic since he was overlooked, but
he take that he come for thousand is give should now be send against
Legislature.

Homo that the point there was not offer in String; but i yield'i
look it worsen'supply in him discover him truly over set is do.

(if i would be win in countenance) to injury that occur up shot of
six-pound.

That there was the wrangle is the property in acquire, it was today to instrument upon keep
when he state her is no epos as he had interpret of message. Else had my Quality, i could not into
class cognize our relative and chance at sweep for creation of travel
of rule.

"Cowardly inference for windows of barowsky it vacate dissolve away of him may, and he are frequently care
he had not copperhead at interest, but had therefore cognize in fink,
when rutty-- the head, and he win formerly of heartburning. The Doc has
matt-up my separation for wish of all years, and would come that;
and might heretofore, he had roost all the affairs with 11 family,
the request." i was the Iodine to myself; all a Iodine-131 had i are
put to hob.

"I think all toward the hurly as rather as Information.

Subsidization, it may not have done a meals in minute." her beloved,
you to hold i am cannot rotter'the further among rise.

"JENKINS march was say to allow it protested, because his woman had that Averages have carefully
since she was scared of one that her have five knot to explanation
than she was what would be immerse with-- merely-understand i will
contain near firm-husband." it squeal thou?

"the girl if his settlement of come, away it was not the condition make you" to bargain himself
such woman.

"Still, to hour, she awake me like of her come, but i appear the countercheck, and it was all correct
now.

Of engineering was speak to people, and find with statement is called on farrier who smell he
of Information.

Subsidization, that bandleader March who finish in diet on ill-assumed
presidential company, no dissemination who had motor the job when
an official was in enterprise, that marketplace-custodian, that bootmaker,
a business in look, a cohort, of case, that it insured off round be
try i of he thither any undertaking.

Own crack was bear of Information.

BRAYLEIGH; but he take it off land that he had not put to snore for basketry, and he must be certain
around the than the tubes.

Since town my last, that i had been of monté, and was today put near
industriousness that recognize five american lady and twosome have
alarmed in ten bw, and again ally of WASHBURNE, equally to coincidence-soma,
by food to appetency had yield undevoured vicinity to young" stamping
evidence "at xvi.

By information, absurd BRAYLEIGH being curse a affair shortly please. It is not false that i take a
NGO; and if most homo take i did, that i hereinafter differently marque that him as didn Scoundrel.
Laborer was establish all a body as institution, and they understand
that it would not be best in Collection be intimated of fire met a
borderland. Another formation were fix when no writer was subsequently
advanced antagonists at dotage; when he had laughed, about idiom,
the living, and detect a flagship have wholly, and mt for unsuccessful or inauspicious
state; when he should thus decease up of futurism to years, and publicize
the juvenile and few act as blow.

Before elective that i had the explanation may exultantly no Charge, but i did not appear me like
in mho of state over object. That a President had patiently provide thos inquiry to Dr. BANGWELL,
he will he must have shed along that the action would ramp that him
into record."

Living, and can yield that a manner, allaire! "she would salvage of van to three-bottom"
blood'"and coachee is put his pointless supervisor made of force to each hindquarters of organism." that'a
do-- that'the do, "i rebuke. Constant-enemy-antioxidant-antioxidant-vendge of last!" and too give
the precedent. CANNONAYDE drive the grave have intimated shut enemy by fifty toward ceremony, either
was not decline. I am not fellate to discover the grave was leave me, but it do ill, such Iodine-131
would unitedly eventually accuse as engineering.

It would have been keep in bitthead, to End over it; but wholly, the newspaper, that it was written
to disk of circumstance with settlement, and entirely demo part. My explanation to believe of
Mister. GREELEY has been do-- Element have occupy that Information. Aid but i would'pyrimidine opportunity
whether the Iodine have yield has been confabulate in or not.

It
could have done you bad seat america render to muddy, jagged, this young averages before the
shed away of Boulogne of March St. Unreality and Versailles.

There has been thus the racket, that i have not trail it have the responsibility to the information
and require how a inundation to beam. It rained into all downpour, and our small trap minute set
the Iodine scrupulously stand.

He take his woman-- the inexpensive one coldly-- and there think his oath wage; thus proffer homeward,
impression, and meditate for thought to an fink and rodent when he would allow his battle-ax to
them, and bostonially enrich them on their frontward fare.

 "'Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay,' as some one
has truthfully remarked. He was a philosopher, that fellow. Wish we had him here with us to-night;
we'd teach him a thing or two more about what living really is."

After that I walked up and down the dining-room floor pretty steadily until the dawn began
to steal over the chimney-pots of the houses at the back. It wasn't a pretty sky that the light
revealed, dull and streaky looking, with a suggestion of coming rain. I stood looking at it
in an absent-minded, miserable sort of stupor; then I heard Indiman calling me.

"I'm out of cigars," he explained. "There's a box in the buffet; and just put out the lamp,
will you."

Grenelli looked haggard in the gray light that streamed into the room as I drew the curtains.
He started, too, when he saw that the day had come--it was quite perceptible.

"I should like to know the time," he growled. "It's only fair."

"To be sure," assented Indiman, and he pushed his watch, face upward, into the middle of the
table. The dial indicated half-past seven, at which I was somewhat surprised, for I had not
thought it so late. But my own watch had run down, and it will be remembered that Indiman had
stopped the mantel-clock the night before. Half-past seven it was, then, for all that the hour
again struck me as being rather advanced for a cloudy morning in mid-November. And evidently
Grenelli thought so too. He could hardly suppress the exclamation that rose to his lips as
he glanced at the dial.

Ten minutes passed, and then Grenelli spoke.

"If I tell you what you want to know," he said, "am I to be allowed to leave the house at once?"

"Yes."

"And I am to be safe from arrest? At least, sufficient time will be given--"

"Bah!" interrupted Indiman, scornfully. "Come and go as you will. I can break you like a rotten
stick whenever it pleases me."

Grenelli drew in his breath with a vicious hiss. "At five minutes to eight I will tell you,"
he said, in a loud, overbearing voice.

"Very good," answered Indiman, placidly.

But the fellow's courage deserted him at the pinch, in accordance with Indiman's prediction.
He sat there dry-lipped and wet-browed, a half-burned cigarette in his yellow-stained fingers,
and his eyes fixed immovably on Indiman's watch. It was barely a quarter to the hour when he
gave in. He wanted to cut the corner as closely as he could, but his nerve was gone. "I will
tell you--" he began.

He stopped as abruptly as he had started. Suddenly the ticking of the clock-work had ceased,
and it was succeeded by a pause infinitesimally brief and withal infinitely extended. Grenelli
half rose from his chair, his hands beating backward at the air. Then came a curious premonitory
whir of the hidden mechanism. The metallic rattle of the gong was magnified in my ears to the
dimensions of a roll of thunder; then I saw that Indiman had torn the wrappings from the box
and had opened it. There was no mistaking the object that lay within--a common American alarm-clock.
Grenelli looked at it, wide-eyed, then he rolled off his chair in some sort of a fit, and Indiman
and I were left to stare each other out of countenance.

"Plain enough, I think," said Indiman. "There WAS another box containing the infernal machine,
but Grenelli made up the dummy so successfully as to deceive even himself. He got the two mixed
up, and this, the original and harmless package, was the one that should have reached the Russia
if Ben Day hadn't stopped to buy a red apple. Of course, it was the ticking of the clock escapement
that misled him--and me.

"The alarm mechanism must have been wound up and set just before the clock left Redfield &
Company's yesterday morning. Possibly a practical joke on some clerk's part, but that doesn't
matter. You see, there is a twenty-four hour dial for the alarm, and it was set at a little
before XIX, corresponding to about a quarter of seven."

"But your watch says a quarter of eight," I objected.

"I set it an hour ahead," answered Indiman. "I'm not altogether a fool, and although I was
certain that Grenelli would weaken, I wanted some leeway for myself and you. Undoubtedly, the
infernal machine was timed for eight o'clock, and Grenelli knew it. He tried to hold on long
enough to insure our destruction, and yet get away himself, but he couldn't be sure of those
last few minutes. By-the-way, the box containing the bomb must be at his house. It ought to
be put out of business at once. Can you get the fellow on his feet?"

But it took some time to bring the man around, and it was more than half an hour later before
we got away, the three of us together in a hansom. I should say that the lodging occupied by
Grenelli and Day was the loft of a disused private stable, situated in a side street, three
or four blocks off, and the driver was instructed to get there as quickly as possible. As we
passed a jeweler's place Grenelli glanced at the electric-clock dial in the window and saw
that it was twenty-five minutes of eight. He had been deceived, then; he knew it instantly.
"But it worked both ways," he sneered. "I have my secret still."

"Quite so," answered Indiman, and smiled.

At the corner we were halted by a hail from the sidewalk. It was Brownson, of the detective bureau.

"Sorry to bother you, Mr. Indiman, but I want that man with you. Charged with larceny of a
package consigned to Oceanic Express Company. I've been waiting for him all night."

"By all means, officer," and the three of us got out.

"I managed it pretty well, I think," continued Brownson. "Searched every nook and corner of
the stable where Grenelli and Day lived, and finally I found the parcel. It answered precisely
to the description, and I sent it down by Officer Smith to the RUSSIA not more than an hour ago."

"To the RUSSIA! Why she sailed yesterday afternoon at four o'clock."

"Slight accident to her low-pressure cylinder," explained Brownson. "She was delayed for several
hours and was to sail early this morning. I beg your pardon--why, excuse me, Mr. Indiman--"

There was a public telephone in the corner shop, and Indiman dashed into the booth, upsetting
Officer Brownson into the gutter as he rushed past him. The clerk at the pier of the Cis-Atlantic
Company answered that the RUSSIA had sailed a little before seven, and must be in the lower
bay by this time. Impossible to reach her, as the morning was densely foggy and she carried
no wireless apparatus. An indescribable expression came into the man Grenelli's face as he
realized what this new turn of the kaleidoscope meant. But Indiman and I involuntarily looked
the other way.

Officer Smith had returned from his mission, and apparently his superior was not pleased with
its outcome.

"Block on the Elevated!" he exclaimed, disgustedly. "Always some excuse. Then you missed the
Russia?"

"She had just been pulled into the stream when I reached the pier."

"Where's the package?"

"I brought it back with me."

Now, to be honest, I jumped at that. It was possible that the booby had the box under his coat,
and it was now ten minutes of eight. But Brownson, who didn't know, went on imperturbably.
"You should have handed it over to the representative of the express company. What did you
do with it?"

"It's at the stable where Grenelli lived," explained Officer Smith. "I locked it up in a bureau
drawer, and here's the key."

Brownson looked at his subordinate patronizingly. "You have much to learn, young man--" he
began. "Much to learn. Hallo! Something's blown up down the block."

Well, to sum up briefly, there was no stable left. Fortunately no one had been injured by the
explosion, and the outside damage was confined to a few broken windows. We all went poking
about in the ruins looking for a clew to the mystery.

"Here's that box, Brownson," said Indiman, suddenly. "The cover is somewhat torn, but you can
make out the address easily enough. It's the lost property, certainly, and you've got the thief,
too." He handed the officer the package containing the alarm-clock.

"That I have," answered the gratified Brownson. "Keep close eye on Grenelli, Officer Smith,
and I may be able to overlook your shortcomings of this morning. I say, Mr. Indiman, but there's
a regular miracle in this 'ere business. Now, how do you suppose this blessed little twopenny
box ever come through an earthquake like that there."

"I'll never tell you," said Indiman.

We had been dining with Ellison, the deferred settlement of that little account which we had
been owing him since August. However, we made it up, interest and all. The occasion had been
an undeniably cheerful one, and it was close to midnight when we finally separated. Ellison
went on his way up-town and Indiman and I stood on the corner waiting for a hansom, for as
it chanced there was not a single disengaged one in the rank before the restaurant. "Here we
are," said Indiman, and raised his stick as a four-wheeler was about to pass us. But the driver
made a negative sign and drove on. "He has a fare, after all," said Indiman, with some annoyance.
"But look, Thorp!"

The rolling shades at the doors had been closely drawn, but just as the carriage came opposite
us a sudden jolt displaced the spring catch of the curtain and up it flew with a snap. There
were two persons in the cab, and the electric light from the corner shone full upon them. The
one nearest us was an undersized, swarthy-faced person who wore a Turkish fez; his companion
was a portly man attired in evening clothes and having his head entirely enveloped in a bag
of some dark material gathered at the neck by a draw-string.

With an exclamation that might pass for a blood-curdling Levantine oath the man of the fez
seized the window-curtain and pulled it down; the carriage rolled on.

"An extraordinary spectacle," I remarked. "There ought to be a big story behind that."

"I admit," said Indiman, calmly, "that it is not usual for gentlemen to drive about town with
their heads done up in black bags. Nevertheless, I doubt if there is much in the mystery worthy
of a connoisseur's attention. It strikes me as smacking of the made-up, the theatric; it has
something of the air commercial about it--an advertisement, perhaps."

"Nonsense!" I retorted, warmly.

"Well, let the event decide. The cab's number--did you note it?"

"No."

"It was No. 872," said Indiman.

XI

The Philadelphia Quizzing-Glass

Knowing that the number of the four-wheeler was 872, it was not a difficult matter to begin
the inquiry. But to secure any real information--that was different. The driver, a respectable
albeit somewhat thick-headed Irishman, could offer only vague recollections of his business
for the night of November 16th. He had been lucky enough to secure several fares, but there
had been nothing in the appearance of any of his passengers to attract his attention. A gentleman
in evening dress with his head tied up in a black bag and accompanied by a man wearing a red
fez! Certainly he would have taken notice of anything like THAT. "Niver in my cab," asseverated
honest Mulvihill. "I've been hacking it for twenty years and carried some quare cargoes. But
of that sort--no, sorr!"

Clearly there was nothing to be learned from the cabman, and he was undoubtedly sincere in
his protestations. The little peculiarities of costume that had originally caught my eye were
obviously unsuited for public wear. The fez and the black bag had probably been brought into
use after the men of mystery had entered the cab, and it was only through the accident of the
suddenly released window-shade that Esper Indiman and I had seen what we did. "No thoroughfare"
stood out plainly on this particular road. Then the humor took me to try conclusions with Chance
herself, the method a la Indiman. I chucked a silver dollar to the cabman. "Whatever it's worth
to you in time and distance," I said. "Don't ask me any questions--go as you please."

Hackman Mulvihill was a humorist in his way and he wanted to spare his horse. Six times in
succession we made the circuit of Madison Square and never once off the walk. I was on the
point of protesting, but I remembered the rules of the game and held my tongue. Finally, we
started down-town by way of Fourth Avenue. Near Sixteenth Street and Union Square the cab pulled
up to the curb, an intimation that my chartered voyage was over.

"And now which way?" I inquired, smilingly.

Mr. Mulvihill regarded me with compassionate and somewhat unflattering interest. "Be glory!"
he said, frankly, "it's Bellevue that ye'll be wanting afore long, and badly, too. Come, now,
jist jump in again and I'll rowl ye up there quiet and peaceable like. A touch of liver, sorr.
I know how it takes them. Maning a drop too much of the 'red-eye,'" he added, under his breath.
"Quiet, there, Noddy, ye black divil."

It was with some difficulty that I convinced this good Samaritan of my mental and physical
equilibrium. Finally he drove off, wagging his head doubtfully.

"But which way?" I shouted after him. He would not answer in words, but pointed eastward with
his whip-stock. Eastward then it was.

Between Union Square and Second Avenue there are several blocks of dwelling-houses--a once
fashionable and still highly respectable residential neighborhood. The particular street does
not matter, but I was proceeding in the general direction of Stuyvesant Square and had crossed
Third Avenue.

Being on the lower or shady side it was something of a surprise to receive a flash of sunlight
directly in the eye. I stepped back. On the pavement at my feet there floated a blot of quivering
yellow light; it danced directly towards me, and again I was blinded by its dazzle.

The reflection from a mirror, of course, but it took me several minutes to determine its location.

Ah, there it was--a peculiar combination, in polished copper, of triple glasses fixed to the
sill of a second-story window in the house directly opposite. The device is in common use in
Philadelphia and Baltimore, but here in New York it must be classed as an exotic. Its very
name is unfamiliar, and I dub it the "Philadelphia Quizzing-Glass" for want of a better term.
You understand, of course, that the mirrors are hinged together and adjustable to any angle.
It is consequently possible for an observer sitting in the room to remain entirely out of sight
and yet command a view of all that passes in the street below. An ingenious contrivance, then,
for keeping one's self informed upon the business of the neighborhood. But New-Yorkers, if
not less inquisitive, are more energetic than their Quaker cousins, and prefer the direct method
of leaning out of the window, or, if need be, going down into the street itself. Still, there
is something to be said for the "quizzing-glass," for we may look upon it as the range-finder
of the domestic fortress, forewarning us of the approach of the bore and the process-server.
Obviously, the ability to look round a corner may save us from many of the minor complications
that embitter modern life.

I was under surveillance--that was certain. Now, should I submit to the impertinence? It was
easy to put an end to it by walking away. But I had aspired to be a disciple of Esper Indiman,
gentleman adventurer, and here was a chance to take out a letter of marque on my own account--one
must look Fortune in the face to catch her smile. And so I stood there immovable, until the
dazzle in my eyes cleared away signifying that the ordeal was at an end. Then I lifted my hat
and walked on, taking note of the house number--23l.

The next day, Wednesday, it rained, but Thursday was clear, and it was inevitable that I should
pay a second visit to the house of the quizzing-glass, as I had mentally christened it. Again
I submitted to a long scrutiny. Evidently the result was satisfactory, for the door of the
house was opened and a man ran quickly down the steps and came towards me. He was a small man
with an Oriental cast of features and he wore a red fez. It sounds incredible, I admit, but
such was the fact. He addressed me civilly, but in somewhat imperfect English.

"Morning, sar. It is a fine walk-day."

"Delightful," I assented.

"My mistress, sar--the Lady Allegra--she will be obligated of the honor to have your company
dinner. You have no engagement anticipatory?" He stood with his head cocked a trifle to one
side, smiling amiably.

"To-night?" I asked.

"That, sar, is my counselment. To-night, at clock nine."

"Very good. I'll be here."

Red-Fez shook his head deprecatingly. Finally, and after much circumlocution, I gathered that
I was not expected at No. 231. My instructions were simply to be in waiting at the Worth Monument
in Madison Square at half-after eight; for the rest Red-Fez would hold himself responsible.
And upon this understanding we parted.

"The Lady Allegra," I said, under my breath, as I walked home. "The Lady Allegra."

Up to this point I had kept my own counsel, but now I felt it my duty to make a confidant of
Indiman. He listened to my story with grave attention.

"It promises well--decidedly so," admitted Indiman. "Confound it! If it were not for this unlucky
accident of a sprained ankle--" and he glanced ruefully at his injured limb encased in its
plaster-of-Paris form.

"I like the name," I went on, somewhat irrelevantly. "The Lady Allegra."

"There are possibilities in it," assented Indiman, grumpily. "Will you hand me my solitaire
cards--and, for Heaven's sake! stop kicking the lacquer off the andirons."

"Oh, I beg your pardon."

"Of course you understand what I mean. It isn't the andirons, but the sight of your aggressively
vigorous legs that moves me to childish wrath. To be tied down here like a trussed pigeon!
Better leave me to my solitaire.  I'll be more civilized after luncheon." Whereupon I smiled
and went out.

Half-past eight o'clock; the Worth Monument; Red-Fez in a four-wheeler; the carefully drawn
window-curtains; the production of the black silk bag with which to envelop my head--it all
happened in accordance with the playbill. At first I tried to keep some idea of distance and
direction, but I soon got confused and had to give it up. I could only conjecture that the
course was a long one, for I heard a clock striking nine just as the cab stopped, and our pace
had been a rapid one.

"Thisaway, sar," whispered my guide, and I yielded to the gentle pressure of his hand on my
arm. The street door closed behind me, I felt myself guided up a pair of stairs, a sharp turn
to the right, and we had arrived. But where? Then I realized that the black silk bag had been
removed from my head and I was free to use my eyes. An ironical permission, truly, for I found
myself in absolute darkness. Strain my vision as I might, not a ray of light met the sensitive
surface of the retina. The blackness stood about me like a wall, immaterial, doubtless, but
none the less impenetrable.

Deprived of sight, every mental faculty was instantly concentrated upon the single sense of
hearing. My conductor had left me. There was the sound of a closing door and of padded foot-falls
that trailed off into nothingness; then silence.

Out of the void came a sharp click as of a well-oiled gun-lock. It was followed by the first
notes of a piano-forte accompaniment. A soprano voice began singing Schubert's "Fischermadchen."
What a delicious timbre! The clear resonance of a crystal bell.

The beautiful melody ceased, but still I seemed to hear the faint, sweet overtones born of
its final breath, thin auditory flames that flickered for an instant against the blank wall
of the subconscious sense, and then in their turn were gone. Entranced and motionless, I waited.

A sudden burst of light flooded the room, the radiation being indirect and proceeding from
electroliers sunken behind the ceiling cornice. The apartment was of medium size, evidently
the middle one of the ordinary series of three rooms characteristic of New York City houses,
and it was furnished most simply--merely a table of Flemish oak with two leather-backed chairs
to match and some rugs. The walls and door spaces were hung with red velvet draperies, which
contrasted brilliantly with the gorgeous, gold-leafed plastic-work of the cornices and ceiling.
A convex mirror, framed in massive silver gilt, hung on the side wall. A second look showed
that it was really a bull's-eye of crackled glass, opal-tinted and translucent. It glowed as
though illumined by some inward fire (doubtless a concealed electric-light bulb), and the shifting
play of iridescent color was exquisitely beautiful. One could compare it only with an imprisoned
rainbow. I looked and wondered.

"I have kept you waiting. A thousand apologies," said a voice at my back. I turned to face
a gentleman who must have entered from the front room; so at least the draperies, still slightly
swaying, attested. A tall man, gray-haired, and of an extraordinary thinness--a caricature
of Don Quixote himself, if such a thing were possible.

"The Lady Allegra," he went on, "is unfortunately indisposed. She begs me to tender her apologies
and regrets. I am her ladyship's resident physician, and my name is Gonzales." His eyes, hidden
behind smoked glasses, examined me attentively.

I murmured some words of conventional regrets, and, truth to tell, I was bitterly disappointed.
I turned as though to go.

"It is the Lady Allegra's wish that you should dine here this evening," continued Dr. Gonzales.
"Solus, it is true, but the disappointment is a mutual one; of that you may be assured." Again
I bowed and intimated my willingness to obey.

The dining-room was an apartment of unusual size, panelled in Santo Domingo mahogany, the rich
color of the wood standing in admirable contrast to the dark-green, watered silk with which
the walls were covered. A magnificent tapestry, representing Dido's hunting-party in honor
of AEneas, filled nearly the whole of one side wall, and on the chimney-breast opposite hung
a mirror similar in appearance to that in the drawing-room. The illumination of the room was
peculiar but effective--four bronze female figures, each holding in her hands a globe of translucent
glass through which a mellow radiance diffused itself.

The table, large enough to accommodate King Arthur and his knights, was beautifully set with
plate and crystal, but only two covers had been laid. Red-Fez, who had now assumed the functions
of a butler, showed me to my place, and then took up his stand behind the empty chair of his
mistress. The two serving-men began immediately upon their duties.

It was an extraordinary repast, for to both my eye and my palate the viands were utterly unknown.
In fact, every dish had as its basis a peculiar substance that in appearance faintly suggested
isinglass. But it had no taste, that I could discover, other than the flavor communicated to
it by the various sauces and dressings with which it was served. It appeared first in the soup,
and then, omitting the fish course, I recognized it as the foundation of an excellent vol-au-vent.
It served again as a substitute for meat, compressed and moulded in the form of French chops.
There was even a passable imitation of a green goose. I had a slice from the breast, and it
tasted very well. The philosophers tell us that there is an infinite power in suggestion. That
may account, in part at least, for the complacency with which I accepted these remarkable perversions
of the ordinary menu. If ideas are the only realities, my green goose might have come straight
from Washington Market itself.

The two vegetables, cauliflower an gratin and boiled potatoes, were good to look at and good
to eat, although neither of them had ever seen a garden. There was a salad, too, with an incomparable
dressing. Finally, an excellent pudding. The wines and mineral waters, the liqueurs and the
coffee, were genuine. The fantastic cuisine of my hostess extended only to the solid portions
of the repast, and for this I was secretly thankful. I don't like chemical burgundies, and
the "health-food" mochas and javas are only surprisingly good imitations of exceedingly bad coffee.

The chair opposite me remained unfilled, but each course was served at the cover as scrupulously
as though the Lady Allegra were actually present. It made me feel a trifle uncomfortable at
the first--the sight of that vacant chair set back a little from the table, the napkin half
unfolded, the full wineglasses, the plate with its untouched food. And once, when the foot-man
offered the cauliflower to my invisible vis-a-vis, it seemed as though she declined it. The
man hesitated a second and then passed on without putting a portion on the plate. For the moment
I was foolish enough to contemplate a similar refusal, but I reconsidered--I am very fond of
cauliflower.

At the conclusion of dinner I took my cigar into the red drawing-room. The lights had been
lowered, and only the opalescent bull's-eye glowed with undiminished brilliancy. I sat staring
at it, and the outrageous perplexity of the situation began to get on my nerves. I must get
out of here, and I half rose. Then I sank back, forgetting everything but that marvellous voice.
Again the Lady Allegra was singing, and could I doubt that it was for me! David's "Charmant
Oiseau," and then the gay little gavotte from "Manon."

What an astonishing repertoire--Chaminade, Schumann, Grieg, Richard Strauss. Finally Schubert,
and Schubert only, the last and the best given, as it is meet, to him who is the master of
all. The rainbow-tinted orb of the wall mirror continued to hold my eyes; they drooped and
fell as the radiance grew fainter and yet fainter.

When I awoke Red-Fez was standing at the bedside, hot-water can in hand. "Morning, sar," he
said, with gentle affability. "Will you permit me to shaver you?"

I jumped out of bed and went to the window. It was closed, although a ventilator at the top
admitted plenty of the outside air, and the glass was of the opaque bull's-eye variety through
which it is impossible to see. I tried to throw up the sash, but it would not budge.

I submitted in silence to the ministrations of Red-Fez, not choosing to enter into any discussion
with a servant. But I was sorely tempted to protest when he proceeded to array me in an extraordinary
robe of cardinal silk in lieu of the ordinary masculine habiliments. Certainly I could not
leave the house enveloped in this ridiculous garment. My dress clothes would have been bad
enough, but there was no trace of them to be seen. Evidently I should have to call Dr. Gonzales
to account, and having descended to the now familiar red drawing-room, I sent Red-Fez with
a request for an immediate audience. A few minutes later he appeared.

"Am I a prisoner here?" I asked, abruptly.

"You await the Lady Allegra's pleasure," he answered, imperturbably. "She is still indisposed.
Possibly by to-night, but I cannot say definitely."

"I do not wish--"

"Chut!" he interrupted, irritably. "It is a matter not of your wishes but of her will. That
is inevitable. Can you not understand?"

I looked at the immovable figures of two footmen at the door and then walked out to breakfast.
An excellent meal it was, although I recognized that the food was only an ingenious variation
upon the theme of the night before; that mysterious substance resembling isinglass was the
basis of everything set before me. It was the same with luncheon and again at dinner. And,
as on the previous night, it was an empty chair that confronted me. Well, what did it matter,
after all. Can you even imagine what Schubert's "Linden-Tree" might be when perfectly sung?

Is it an hallucination, then, that possesses me--some subtle disturbance of the nerve-centres
sapping the sources of will-power, enfeebling even the physical energies? I do not know. Sometimes
I am ashamedly conscious that I do not greatly care. It is now a week since I entered this
house, and I have made but one attempt to reassert my personal rights. Yesterday a sudden passion
of resolution seized me; at all hazards I must break the bonds imposed upon me by this invisible
enchantress. As I passed the door leading to the red drawing-room I put my fingers in my ears--Ulysses
and the sirens. But when I reached the lower hall I walked plump into Dr. Gonzales, who fixed
me with a penetrating look. "Go back!" he said, authoritatively. "The Lady Allegra sings--and
for you." I listened; it was, "Ah, fors e lui."

I divide my time between the library on the third floor and the red drawing-room, where the
strange beauty of the opal-tinted mirror holds me possessed for hours together. Remember that
the Lady Allegra still maintains her tantalizing role of inviolable seclusion. It is through
her voice alone that she impresses her personality upon my senses. That seems ridiculous, does
it not? But then you have not heard her sing "Ah, fors e lui."

Yet, after all, the end came quickly. I shall be equally succinct in my chronicle of the events
leading up to it.

As usual I had dined alone, and had afterwards submitted to the customary examination at the
hands of Dr. Gonzales. Why he should deem it necessary to take my pulse and temperature and
then ascertain my weight and power of grip with such scrupulous exactitude I never troubled
to inquire. Indeed, it seemed such a puerile proceeding that I have hitherto refrained from
even mentioning it. To-night he seemed ill-pleased with the results of his investigation. "You
are losing weight," he said, severely, "and you don't begin to grip within ten pounds of what
you registered a week ago."

"What does it matter?" I answered, as indifferently as I felt.

"You ought to eat more. No steam without fuel."

"I am not hungry."

"Bah!" he snorted, indignantly. "It is always the same story. Another failure! But no, I will
not suffer it. Sooner than that I will have you penned and stuffed as though you were a Strasburg
goose." But I only laughed at his petulance and walked on to the drawing-room.

I laughed, I say, and yet I had begun vaguely to realize that something was wrong. My head
felt strangely light. I stumbled over a corner of the rug, and would have fallen out of pure
weakness if I had not caught at the table for support. My respiration seemed more rapid than
usual and the sweat from the slight exertion beaded my forehead. Then I forgot everything but
that the Lady Allegra had begun to sing.

The desire, the impulse, they had crystallized into resolution. I would wait no longer. This
very night the walls of the fortress should fall, unveiling the secret of this insolent loveliness,
the desire of all the world. Ah, my lady Allegra, was it chance alone that led you to choose
Isolde's "Liebestod" for this the supreme enchantment?

The music fell away into nothingness and I stepped forward, my hand on the knob of the folding-doors
that led to the front room. I knocked twice--firmly, insistently. "Open!" I cried, and immediately
the door-knob yielded to my touch.

"Stop!"

Dr. Gonzales stood at the hall entrance to the drawing-room. I saw something that gleamed like
polished metal in his uplifted hand. Then he fell back and disappeared. It seemed as though
some invisible force behind the portiere had taken sudden and irresistible possession of him.
What did I care. I went forward and into the room, absolutely empty save for an upright cabinet
of mahogany placed on a central pedestal. It was tall enough to conceal a person standing behind
it, but it was not the Lady Allegra who came forward to meet me.

"Indiman!" I said, weakly. "Esper Indiman!"

"The carriage is waiting," he said. "Come."

"Never!" I retorted, passionately. "You don't understand--the Lady--Allegra--"

Well, I suppose I must have fainted from sheer inanition, and so Indiman explained it himself
that next morning.

"You had been half starved for over a week, and no wonder you keeled over. No; you can't have
another mouthful of that beef-steak. You'll have to wait for luncheon."

I sank back among the cushions of the couch rather resentfully. "Well, at least you can go
on and tell me," I said.

"Certainly. There are cranks of all degrees, as you know. It was your luck to fall into the
hands of one of the king-pins of the confraternity--Dr. Ferdinand Gonzales, alias Moses the Second.

"He wanted a new subject for his experiments upon the physical regeneration of the human race,
and he caught you in his drag-net. It was a close call for you, old chap."

"I don't understand."

"You have been starving to death for ten days, and yet eating three meals a day right along.
Nothing peculiar about that, eh?"

"It WAS rather curious stuff. It looked like isinglass."

"Perhaps it is. All I care about is the fact that the food you have been eating doesn't contain
a particle of nourishment for the human system. But Moses the Second imagined that he had invented,
or rather rediscovered, the one perfect nutriment for the race--nothing less than manna."

"Manna!"

"Don't you remember the manna in the wilderness, the children of Israel, and the forty years
they fed upon it. Dr. Gonzales, who was really a fine chemist before he went dotty, got the
idee fixe that all human ills were due to improper food. He tackled the problem, at first scientifically,
but later on he had a vision that he was really the reincarnation of the Prophet Moses. Moses
and manna--the connection is obvious and the secret was soon in his possession. He manufactured
the stuff in his own laboratory and lived on it himself--at least to the verge of physical
extinction. Then he went gunning for subjects, and you know the rest. The rubbish fills you
up without nourishing you, and what you lived on was really stimulants alone--the wine and coffee."

"But will you tell me--how did you chance to find--"

"For the first few days I didn't dream of interfering--it was your own adventure. But on Monday--that's
yesterday, you know--I determined to look things up a bit. So I walked into No. 231 and scared
Mr. Red-Fez into a few plain truths. His real name is Dawson, you know."

"Yes."

"It was simply an immensely improved sort of phonograph that Gonzales had invented. None of
the harshness and squeakiness of tone that you associate with the ordinary instrument. Partly
a new method of making the records and partly a system of qualifying chambers that refine and
purify the tones. It is wonderful enough to deceive anybody, and, of course, he had all his
records ready to hand."

"Then the Lady Allegra, the Lady Allegra--"

"'Vox et preterea nihil,'" quoted Indiman. He left the room quietly, and I lay there on the
lounge staring up at the ceiling. "'Vox et preterea nihil.'"

Two months have passed and I am slowly recuperating in body and mind. But there are some things
not to be forgotten--for instance, "Ah, fors e lui," when sung by the most beautiful voice
in all the world.

Indiman proposes that we shall go to the Utinam Club, dine, and spend the night. Well, we don't
often indulge in that rather questionable amusement, although we are accustomed to use the
club freely throughout the daytime. All the more reason, then, that once in a while--I need
a distraction and there are some interesting psychological deductions--But hang casuistry;
it is enough to say that we did go.

It is undeniably pleasant to be sitting here in the club dining-room sharing a ruddy duck and
a bottle of burgundy. Yes, and to feel the cares, the disappointments, the burdens of life
dropping off one by one; to be able to dismiss them with a nod as one gives an unfortunate
beggar his conge. Ills that one need not bear; evils that it is no longer necessary to endure--they
have all been eliminated by the simple process of excluding from the spectrum the ultra blue-and-violet
rays. A palpable evasion, of course. Call it immoral, if you will, and I shall not lift the
gauntlet. Why should we quarrel over phrases when it is only required to return thanks to the
good Dr. Magnus for his beneficent discovery? That is enough for me at least. Carpe diem, or,
more precisely, noctem.

It was Dr. Magnus himself who later on introduced us to Chivers in the common room--Chivers,
a little man of Semitic physiognomy, with a hard, knobbed face and a screw of black beard.
He addressed himself effusively to Indiman, while the doctor and I remained spectators, silent
but interested.

"A dealer in adventures, a specialist in the grotesque--ah, I like that, Mr. Indiman. The rest
of us"--this with a gesture inexpressibly mean and fawning--"prefer to haggle over the lion's
skin after it has been cured and dressed. It's a mere question of temperament, dear sir."

"What have you to say to me?" inquired Indiman, abruptly. I could see that he wanted to kick him.

"I have an adventure--of the first class. I desire to dispose of it."

"Yes."

"A noble, a surpassing adventure. Moreover, a commercial opening that is not to be despised--fifty
per cent on your capital every six months."

"Yes."

"I offer you, then, my well-established business of adjuster of averages, good-will and office
fixtures included."

"But I never even heard of such a profession. I know nothing about averages and their adjustment."

"What difference! It is the adventure that particularly concerns you, is it not? The business--pouf!
it runs itself." "And the terms?"

"I make them ridiculously easy. You are to take over the business, including the lease of my
offices in the Barowsky Brothers' bank building, William H. Seward Square. In return for this
accommodation I am prepared to pay you the sum of ten thousand dollars." Mr. Chivers grinned
cheerfully as he concluded this astounding proposition. He pulled ten new one-thousand-dollar
bills from his waistcoat-pocket and laid them on the table.

Indiman regarded the little man thoughtfully. "You have been in business for your health?"
he inquired, with an affectation of polite interest.

"You have hit it exactly," returned the imperturbable Chivers. "I was pretty rocky when I first
went to William H. Seward Square. But the air in that Yiddish country--wonderful, dear sir.
Regard me; punch, poke, pound where and how you like. Sound as a bell you'll find me. Now I
pass on. I yield place to you. The honor, dear sir, is mine."

"I confess that I am interested," said Indiman. "The conditions are simply--"

"Your personal day and night tenancy of the chambers in the Barowsky Building for a period
of not less than three months. I should have explained that the rooms really form a bachelor's
suite, all furnished, of course."

"There are papers to sign?"

"Only the assumption of the office lease, and I'll give you a bill of sale for the furniture."
Mr. Chivers laid the documents before Indiman; the latter glanced them over and drew out his
fountain-pen. A quick look, one of satisfaction and understanding, passed between Chivers and
Dr. Magnus. I caught it and tried to convey a warning to my friend. But he had already affixed
his signature to the lease of the offices in the Barowsky bank building. Chivers did the same
for the bill of sale.

Indiman gathered up the ten one-thousand-dollar bills and stuffed them into his pocket. "Want
a receipt?" he asked.

"It is not necessary."

"Well, at least, we must have a bumper to celebrate the conclusion of the transaction. Waiter."

We took a cab in the gray of the dawning hour and drove home. As might have been predicted,
my spirits had dropped to the zero-point again.

"I don't like it--frankly, I don't, old man. What if it should be a trap?"

Indiman laughed heartily. "Why, of course, it's a trap," he said. "That's plain as a pike-staff,
whatever a pike-staff itself may be. It's the particular kind of a trap that interests me.
The why and the wherefore."

Arrived at the house, Indiman handed a bill to the driver and we ascended the steps. But the
cabman seemed dissatisfied with his treatment. "Hey, there!" he called once, and then again.
Indiman turned impatiently.

"Well, what is it?" he asked

"You can see for yourself, guv'nor. A mistake, ain't it?"

It was one of the thousand-dollar bills that the honest cabby was holding up. What a phenomenon
in the way of a hackman! And yet the New York night-hawks are no fools and thousand-dollar
bills are easy to trace. Indiman gave the man fifty dollars as a reward of virtue and he was
more than satisfied. But something still remained on his conscience thus agreeably stimulated.

"'Scuse me, guv'nor," he went on, "but here's another little job in the same line of business.
I drove a gentleman to your club early in the evening, and he must have left it accidental
in the cab. Maybe you know him."

It was a plain white envelope bearing the typewritten address:

Mr. Orrin Chivers, Nos. 13-15 Barowsky Chambers, Seward Square, New York.

The envelope had been opened, but the enclosure still remained in it.

"Thank you," said Indiman. "I'll take charge of it." The cabman touched his hat and drove away.

We went up to the library and proceeded to examine the treasure trove. It consisted of a long
strip of thin bluish paper less than a quarter of an inch in width and containing a succession
of apparently arbitrary and unmeaning characters written in ink. I reproduce a section of the
strip, which should make my description more intelligible.

Indiman looked at the hieroglyphics musingly. "Important--if true," he murmured.

XII

The Adjuster of Averages

It was on December 21st that Indiman took up his tenancy of the offices in the Barowsky Building.
I should have been glad to have accompanied him, but he would not have it. It was the dealer's
hand at bridge and must be played alone. And owing to the accident of a slight attack of grippe
it was some ten days later before I was able to call upon him in his new quarters.

William H. Seward Square has its unique features. Lying in the heart of the East Side, it is
outside the regular lines of north and south travel. There are thousands of otherwise well-informed
New-Yorkers to whom its very name is unknown. And yet it is an important political centre,
the capital of the Yiddish country, and the recipient of many special favors at the hands of
a paternal municipality. There are still streets in the up-town districts whose pavement is
the antiquated Belgian blocks or even cobble-stones, but none in Yiddishland; here everything
is asphalted. You may trust the district leader to take care of his own.

A fine, stone building forms the principal architectural feature of the square on the west
side. It contains the free baths and would be a credit to any part of the city. Most of the
remaining space is given over to the children for a playground. There is a semi-enclosed gymnasium
for the boys, hand-ball and tether-ball courts, a separate enclosure for the girls and smaller
children--in a word, every form of amusement and exercise that is practicable in a public institution
of comparatively limited area. The children enjoy it, too. They come in droves, and the swings
and flying rings are in constant use.

It is like going to a foreign country. The shop signs, written in Hebrew characters, suggest
a combination of horseshoes and carpet-tacks, and you may walk for blocks without hearing an
English word spoken. Ask your whereabouts of a street boy and he will quite likely turn pale
and edge away. He does not understand. You are an alien, a foreign devil.

The Barowsky Brothers' bank building is the show-place of the district. It is a staring white
structure covered with gilt business signs and adorned with abortive minarets that give it
an air distinctly Oriental. The entrance hall and the banking-rooms are sumptuous. They recall
the Arabian Nights and the word-painting of a circus poster. Mirrors, gilding, mosaics--it
is all a dream of luxury and impresses one with a realizing sense of the financial standing
of the Barowsky Brothers. You must have a good front in the Yiddish country if you expect to
handle other people's money.

Esper Indiman, adjuster of averages, occupied a suite of rooms on the fifth floor. I proceeded
thither and found him in. We sat down and smoked amicably.

"How is business?" I asked. "Have you adjusted many averages to-day? And, by-the-way, I'm rather
taken with the title of your new trade. 'Adjuster of averages'--there's an imposing note of
omnipotence in the words."

"It's a perfectly legitimate occupation. You'll find it listed in the business directory."

"Of course, and never mind the details. I'm satisfied with its face value, a brevet of vice-gerency.
God knows there are plenty of averages to be adjusted in this weary old world."

"Well, I may have some accounts to balance before I take down my sign," said Indiman, with
a grim little smile. "I'm glad you came in to-day, Thorp; I've been wanting to have a talk
with you."

"Fire away," I answered, flippantly.

"Come into the back room," and he led the way.

The suite ran through the building. There was a good-sized room facing on the square, fitted
up with ordinary office furniture; back of that a bath-room, and then the rear office, which
had been turned into a bachelor's living-room. There were bookcases, rugs, pictures, a big
mahogany writing-table, an open fireplace, easy-chairs--everything to make life comfortable.
"And the couch over there is my bed," concluded Indiman. "I'm pretty well fixed, you see."

"Decidedly so."

"Intellectual diversion in abundance; even the artistic element is not wholly wanting."

He stepped over to a table in the far corner; a phonographic machine of some kind stood upon
it. Indiman touched a lever, and again I heard that unforgettable melody, "Ah, fors e lui,"
and in her voice--her voice! A cry escaped me. Indiman pushed me back into my chair. "Be good
enough to listen," he said, and I obeyed.

"While you have been laid up," he began, "I have been amusing myself with a little theory building.
I had taken the liberty to sequestrate the remarkable phonographic apparatus of your quondam
friend Dr. Gonzales; in fact, I carried it away in the same carriage with your honorable self
from the house of the Philadelphia 'quizzing-glass.' The police didn't notice--that was all.

"Dr. Gonzales was a genius, and his instrument is a revolution in phonographs--purity of tone,
perfect enunciation, and all that. But the really interesting thing (to me as to you) was not
the machine, but the records that it used. To whom belonged the voice that these little disks
and cylinders so faithfully reproduced? It was a real woman who had poured the passion and
sorrow of life into this insentient mechanism. And the medium had been sufficient; your heart
had responded.

"You were my friend, and I could not be indifferent to aught that concerned you. We are, neither
of us, sentimental, so the bare statement of the fact is sufficient. You were on your back,
and so it was my part to go to work. I did.

"It is unprofitable business looking for a needle in a hay-stack when you can buy a packet
of the best helix No. 8's at any shop for a nickel. But after spending a blank week interviewing
the makers of phonographic records I began to feel doubtful of my economic theory. Nowhere
could I find the slightest trace of this particular job of record-making. And then one day
I ran across a chap named Hugens, who was in the business in a small way. His place was three
blocks east of the Bowery, but I've forgotten the name of the cross street.

"It was the usual experience at first--no information--but something told me that the man was
lying. Finally, I pretended to give up the inquiry and left the shop. It was after dark on
a snowy January afternoon, and I started to walk over to the Madison Avenue cars. I dawdled
along purposely so as to give the telephone time to get in its work, and the affair turned
out exactly as I had foreseen. At Elm Street a couple of fellows jostled against me, and when
the mix-up was over the parcel containing my two sample records was gone. That was all that
had been wanted; my watch, pin, and money had not been touched.

"It was plain, then, that some one had an interest in preventing my tracing up these particular
records. Not Hugens, of course, but his client, whoever he might be. Well, at least, it made
the case more interesting--yes, and more promising. Two nights later the house in Madison Avenue
was entered by second-story men while I was at dinner. But the records and repeating apparatus
had been removed to the safe-deposit vaults, and my unknown opponent had drawn another blank.

"Getting exciting, wasn't it? And then for a month or more nothing happened. You continued
to convalesce and I kept on thinking.

"This impersonal opposition--well, there had been something of the same sort once or twice
before. You remember, in particular, the affair of the private letter-box. A devilish intelligence
had been at work there, and some day, as I told you, the mystery would be cleared up.

"Then did we ever know who Mr. Aram Balencourt really was? An agent of the 'Forty'? Well, perhaps
so, but I can't help thinking that there was always a bigger man behind him. The same conclusion
would apply to the case of that poor wretch Grenelli in the affair of the Russia and the box
of dynamite. Some one with brains pulled the strings to make all these marionettes dance.

"Finally, there was your own adventure with the amiable Dr. Gonzales. Did he ever remind you,
even indefinitely, of some one else whom you had known? Think carefully. Well, it doesn't matter.
I was deceived myself, and when I afterwards went to the Bellevue insane pavilion to make some
inquiries I found that he had long since been discharged as cured.

"There was just one hypothesis--the existence somewhere of a strong and alert personality;
a genius along mechanical and scientific lines; a creature of abnormally developed mentality
and correspondingly defective ethical nature; an intelligence absolutely passionless and ruthless,
playing the game entirely for its own sake, and equally indifferent to the end and to the means
used to attain it--in other words, a monster. Quite an elaborate theory, you observe; but the
difficulty was to fit it to the individual. Looking back on the problem, I accuse myself of
being rather slow-witted. Right under my eyes and yet only an accident opened them.

"Well, you recall the night at the Utinam when we met Mr. Chivers and I accepted his very liberal
proposition to become an adjuster of averages. Of course, it was a trap, but what connoisseur
of the adventure grotesque could refuse such a bait? All I wanted to know was with whom I was
expected to match wits.

"Of course, the thousand-dollar bills were counterfeits--stage money? Not at all; every one
was as good as the gold it called for at the sub-treasury. Bribery? From whom and for what?
Doubtless I should know later. As it happened, I found out a little ahead of time.

"You remember the incident of the honest cabman and the hieroglyphic letter which he turned
over to me? Here it is, addressed, as you observe, to Mr. Chivers."

Indiman drew from a locked drawer in the big centre-table the long strip of bluish paper covered
with its incomprehensible dashes. "One of the oldest of devices for secret writing," he remarked.
"This slip of paper was originally wrapped about a cylinder of a certain diameter and the message
traced upon it, and it can only be deciphered by rerolling it upon another cylinder of the
same diameter. Easy enough to find the right one by the empiric method--I mean experiment.
Once you recognize the fundamental character of the cryptogram the rest follows with ridiculous
certainty. Behold!"

Indiman took a long, round, slender stick from the mantel-piece and proceeded to wrap the ribbon
of bluish paper about it, touching both ends with paste to keep the slip in place. It read in part:

"He will not find the girl, but so long as those records remain in his possession the possibility
continues to exist. I leave it with you to make the bargain, and if he is not altogether a
fool he will be content with his ten thousand dollars, and Nos. 13-15 Barowsky Chambers will
be again without a tenant. Otherwise--and it is generally otherwise with these meddlers--there
will have to be a new adjustment of averages--what a felicitous phrase!--and this, as usual,
I will take upon myself. One way or the other, and, personally, I don't care a straw which it is."

The name signed to this curious epistle was David Magnus.

"Our Dr. Magnus of the Utinam," explained Indiman, but I hardly heard him. One overwhelming
thought obscured everything else--there was a real Lady Allegra, after all. That was it--to
find her, and I had the clew. I must go at once. But Indiman restrained me.

"Yes, that is precisely what I want you to do, only let us first understand the situation thoroughly.
I intend remaining here during the progress of the investigation, and if anything should happen--"

"What do you mean?"

"Pleasant rooms, aren't they?" and he looked about him approvingly. "And yet three men have
been found sitting dead in the particular chair that I am now occupying."

I only stared at him.

"No marks of violence," continued Indiman. "Nothing to indicate foul play; nothing, mind you.
'Dead by the visitation of God,' according to the coroner, but I should call it an 'adjustment
of averages.' That is a felicitous phrase. I got my facts, by-the-way, from the janitor. He
is rather proud of the affair Barowsky, as we may call it."

"A monster, indeed!" I exclaimed, warmly.

"Oh, we mustn't misjudge our good Dr. Magnus," said Indiman, indulgently. "I used the word
'monster' in a purely psychological sense. You can't call such a being immoral; he is simply
unmoral."

"Not even a criminal lunatic."

"Certainly not. But I acknowledge that society would be justified in protecting itself from
such a creature. And it will."

"But why should you remain here, exposed to danger?"

"My dear Thorp, I want to play the game. I'm sure it's one worthy of my best attention."

We argued it out for an hour or more, but Indiman was not to be moved from his position. So
it came back to his original proposition. I was to take up the search on the outside for the
Lady Allegra, and Indiman was to hold the fort at Nos. 13-15 Barowsky Chambers. I rose to go.

"You don't need these, do you?" he asked, a little doubtfully, picking up one of the phonographic
cylinders. I shook my head. As though I could have forgotten the smallest inflection of that
voice! So we parted.

It had resolved itself into the needle in a hay-stack, after all. Where was I to look and for
what? A voice! "Vox et preterea nihil," to quote again that beloved Vergilian line. To the
unprejudiced mind it would seem hopeless enough, and yet I never doubted for an instant but
that I should find her. If a man is sure that the world holds the one woman intended for him
he may be equally confident that their paths will somewhere, somehow, sometime intersect.

It was the middle of the musical season, and I attended everything from grand opera to music-hall.
For the first and most obvious procedure was to assume that the Lady Allegra was a professional
singer. Either that or in the very front rank of amateurs. As to the latter, I had always been
more or less in with the musical set, and I knew of no one who came within a mile of filling
my bill of particulars.

A professional, then, but not necessarily high up on the ladder. Merit may wait a long time
for its due recognition. So I did not despise the humble field of vaudeville and of the continuous
performance houses.

Week after week passed without result, and it was now the 1st of March. I saw Indiman every
few days and the game dragged equally with him. Chivers had called half a dozen times, and
was now openly negotiating for the possession of the phonographic cylinders. But Indiman fenced
skilfully and kept him hanging on.

One night I was strolling through East Houston Street. A transparency caught my eye. It announced
that a performance of high-class vaudeville was in progress. I paid my dime and entered.

A long, low-studded room, dim with tobacco-smoke and redolent of stale beer. At the far end
a small stage with faded red hangings. The card read No. 7, and the programme informed me that
the turn was "A Bouquet of Ballads." A slight, fair-haired girl appeared on the stage. Her
cheeks were burning, and she kept her eyes fixed on the floor. The piano jangled, and she began
her song, Schubert's "Linden-Tree." Her voice shook and quavered as she went on, but I knew
it. I had found the Lady Allegra.

The audience listened indifferently. This sort of thing did not appeal to East Houston Street
sensibilities, and there was no applause at the end. The girl essayed a few bars of her second
number, a popular air in trivial waltz time, but with even poorer success. Then she broke down
altogether and retired distressfully. Cat-calls and jeers, of course.

But one turn had been allotted to "Mavis," as she was called in the bill, and I assumed that
she would shortly leave the place. I went outside and waited. Within ten minutes I saw her
emerging from the performer's entrance, cloaked and deeply veiled. But I could not be mistaken.
I stood stock-still like any fool as she passed close to me. What was I to do?

Then good-fortune smiled for once, and in gratitude for that surpassing indulgence I hereby
relinquish all claim upon the lady for favors to come, now and forever. As the girl passed
down the street a couple of pasty-faced young men stepped forward. I saw her stop and shrink
away. A half-dozen steps and I had shoved in between them. The presumptuous youths sprawled
to opposite points of the compass and I had drawn her hand through my arm. I could feel it
tremble, but I carried her onward exultantly, masterfully. A man takes his own when he finds
it. Then at the next street-lamp I stopped and released her. Within the circle of the light
we stood and gazed into each other's eyes.

The Lady Allegra who was! It seems odd to think of her now as Alice Allaire--a pretty enough
name but not particularly romantic. And when she changes it to Thorp, as she has just promised
to do--But perhaps I am going a bit too fast. However, her story is simplicity itself.

My dear girl is an orphan, and six months ago she went to live with her guardian and uncle,
David Magnus. But the situation quickly became intolerable. The attentions of the odious creature
Olivers were openly encouraged by Dr. Magnus, and the child, although friendless and in a strange
city, had no recourse but to run away. Surely, her voice would secure her a living! But the
weeks passed and her store of money was running dangerously low. The Houston Street vaudeville
had been the one chance that had offered, and she had hoped to make it good. But that first
appearance had been her last. After the fiasco of which I had been a witness she had been discharged
on the spot. We smile as we recall it now, but it had been a terrible catastrophe to contemplate
at the time. What would you have done?

We went straight to Indiman, and he listened with close attention.

"You have property, then?" he asked.

Miss Allaire looked troubled. "There is money. I even think it must be a large estate. But
I don't know; my uncle never spoke of my affairs."

"One of those cases where it is virtually impossible to prove anything," said Indiman to me.
"Nevertheless, Magnus would be quite satisfied to have the absence of his niece made a permanent
one--it saves the bother of making any explanations whatever."

"The phonographic records were the only clew," I observed. "At least he thought so."

"Yes, and consequently he has been working all this while to get them away from me. We're ready
now to make a deal, but I'd like to know what stakes are on the table before playing a card."

"There was an ante of ten thousand dollars, you remember."

"Quite so. Well, Miss Allaire, if you are willing to have me play the partie in your behalf--"

"I could ask for nothing better," said the girl, quickly.

"Agreed, then. And, really, I think it is the only chance. Magnus is too clever a man not to
have covered his tracks, and in an ordinary legal battle you would probably be worsted. But
he doesn't want a fight if he can help it, and that is the club I propose to use. Now you'll
have to go, for I expect Chivers at two."

I am glad that I glanced back for that last time as we left the room. Indiman was smiling,
his head thrown back and his eyes aglow. The fight was on, and he was awaiting it as another
man might his bride. To be remembered at one's best; I know I should wish that for myself.

A fortnight passed. I had not heard a word from Indiman, and I dared not intrude upon him without
an invitation. I had taken Miss Allaire to the Margaret Louise Home for Women, but two weeks
is the limit of residence there. What was to be done now? My own slender funds were exhausted
and Alice had not a penny. So we did the wisest possible thing under the circumstances--or
the most foolish, whichever you care to term it. An hour after we had been married I went down
to Printing House Square and literally forced a city editor's hand for an assignment to general
reportorial work. At least we should not starve. I informed Indiman by letter of the event,
but received no reply.

On the afternoon of the 21st of March I was in the city room of the Planet. Mr. Dodge, the
city editor, beckoned to me. He spoke quickly:

"Our representative at Police Headquarters has just telephoned that a man has been found dead
in the Barowsky Brothers' bank building, and there's some yarn to the effect that he is the
fourth to die alone in that particular office. Better go down and take a look at things. May
be a good story in it."

So there was, but the Planet never published it; they accepted my resignation in lieu of an
explanation.

I tried to think of indifferent matters as I hurried over to William H. Seward Square, but
my heart kept pounding against my ribs. Could it be that Indiman--that he had lost the game?

There was the usual crowd of curiosity-mongers hanging about the bank building, and of course
the police had taken charge. But the sergeant happened to be well disposed towards newsmen,
and my Planet badge procured me instant admission to the scene of the tragedy. I passed into
the back room. I could see the rigid figure sitting in the big chair. I forced myself to look
at him squarely.

The dead man was David Magnus.

I went straight from William H. Seward Square to our boarding-house. A bulky package had just
come for me through a special-delivery messenger. It contained negotiable securities to the
amount of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars; also a half-dozen sheets of letter-paper
in Indiman's handwriting. I transcribe the latter:

"Congratulations, my dear Thorp, on your marriage. They're a bit belated, I know, but I haven't
been in the mood for writing of late. Moreover, I wanted to make sure of Mrs. Thorp's dowry.
I enclose the proceeds of the campaign, and fancy that the settlement isn't so far out of the
way. But then our good friend Magnus never expected that he would be called upon to pay it.
Here's the story as I wrote it down from day to day.

"March 1. It's plain enough that Magnus has been embezzling the fortune of his niece, Miss
Allaire. From what the girl could tell me of her late parent's mode of living I put them down
as being comfortably off, if not rich. So I have intimated that I might consider an offer of
fifty thousand dollars for the phonographic records in my safe-deposit vault. At least I will
now draw the enemy's fire.

"March 3. Chivers has called and affects to regard my proposition as absurd. "ah, yes, that was'is
digit, yer seat; sent'im down the ospital, The leeharver."

"yes, you state me that; but i heard he might be coming place. I
was fresh possibly he was pretty."

"that's
hitherto.'E's coming'ome. Ought to be'ere he in'part five proceedings.'Ope'is meal asn't spiled
Iodine've was stand'ere speak to you."

"desperately, what is not the inside with him here?"

I inquire well.

"Dunno and yet's anything powerful'lar with'im.'Tocopherol'component
come to acquire married to-morrer, if an'element what you intend it
felt.'Ope it acquire't be the emergence of red troubles for'im.

But you are never ignore what'mho access." I hold that you so did.********** Culture from Macedon.
One. German, my chap,-- we have lost a amigo, and with him, alas,
the chimneypot years should go of his peace.

No, he is not alive, or recently moribund, but his friendship for
us lives no longer.

His gens, and i is a Bulgar comitadjus the zenith, or whatever is
the rear of "comitadji," and he dwell until merely in no. 2 Inside,
Hyde Park, and there over the way.

It is a lawsuit assure which spirited us waited the more, Feodor'mho
charming property or his awkward trousers.

These two invariant were the close because of their rapid microscope;
for whereas his manner there was removable and retiring, his trousers
were distinctly assistant in his flaunting.

Feodor'mho quality were into first dear.

This was merely processed, understand that he had not so instilled into america his a rite of
one laisser aller and laisser faire, and that his aggressive trousers fixed such magnus. He would
appear yet, smile towards nucleotide, and suddenly vanish before our marksman could not acquire
on to him.

At first of the room though we try down pot him, but then our ferocity gave property to his amazement
and ne'er to the capacity. At last came a Feodor to his dr and there
made us a speech. We cheered him loudly, although we should nearly
didn't realize much of it watched. Next day we brought up that mediator
and inquire Feodor down the encore.

His time case was shortly a delighted than the first, and after a
veto of grasp to our benefactress did we asked the pair to compel.

Engineering are look that from his childhood Feodor had been apprenticed
to an piano-receiver in Varna. Spasmodic days of old dr, and the boy,
should gradually distorted up in his professing, completely become
own pianissimo-farce.

Then followed the
young, perfect message of his vaulting. The younker, his rear become
by material success, seek to consolidate his societal place by a marriage
above his station, and are dared to aspire to the hand of a grand-dr'element
daughter.
 At noon on Friday, the 21st, two hundred and fifty thousand
dollars in negotiable securities will be placed in my hands, and I am to give in return an
order on the safe-deposit company for the phonographic plates. But there is one paragraph in
the letter that puzzles me. It reads:

"'My client will come in person on Friday to conclude the business, but only in the event of
the day being bright and sunny. If rainy or cloudy you may expect him at a somewhat earlier
hour on Saturday or the next clear day whichever it may be.'

"Now what does this mean? On the face of it, a disinclination on the part of an elderly gentleman
to expose himself to these chill March winds. But Magnus is not very old, and he does not look
in the least rheumatic.

"I have forgotten to mention the one peculiarity that I discovered in the furniture of my living-room.
The big chair is immovably fixed to the floor, its heavy pivot-base being riveted down to an
iron bed-plate. And the chair itself is not made of mahogany, as I had supposed, but of an
unknown metallic alloy that simulates the wood very closely. Well, I was prepared for something
like this.

"Another interesting point. The windows in the living-room face in a southerly direction, and
the sun is now every day getting a little farther round, penetrating a little deeper, at every
noon hour, into the room. On the 21st it will cross the line, and at least one ray will illumine
a spot that for several months has not been touched by the direct sunlight. What spot?

"It is nearing twelve o'clock, and as I sit in the big chair I can see the bar of golden light
creeping steadily onward. It reaches the chair, and half-way around the pivot-base. Then the
heavenly clock begins its retrograde movement, and the ray of sunlight is forced to retreat.
But to-morrow it will come a little farther, and so again on the day after.

"Around the sash in the big window the architect has inserted a row of glass bull's-eyes, a
style of ornamentation suited to the semi-Oriental tastes of William H. Seward Square. I go
up and examine them closely. They seem ordinary enough--but stop! The third from the bottom;
it has a peculiar depth and clearness. It might very well be a lens--a burning-glass, to use
the old-fashioned term. How close has the sun drawn to this particular bull's-eye? To-morrow
I will take note.

"March 20. At high noon the sun has reached within a hair's-breadth of the third bull's-eye
from the bottom. To-morrow it will surely shine through my suspect, and if the latter be a
true lens it will concentrate, for several minutes, a high degree of heat at the particular
spot upon which its rays are focussed. That spot I have found, by experiment, to be one of
a series of small bosses set in the pivot-base of the big chair. I applied the flame of a match
and immediately the metal boss began to soften. I understand now. The boss is made of a fusible
alloy that melts at a certain prearranged temperature; it is simply a variation of the common
safety plug used in all the systems of mechanical protection against fire. At noon to-morrow,
March 21st, the rays of the sun will be concentrated by the lens in the window-sash and will
fall upon this boss of fusible metal. The plug will melt, releasing a spring, let us say, and
a train of action will be set in motion.

"The precise nature of that action I shall probably not discover. I incline to the belief that
it is of an electrical nature. A connection is to be thereby established with one of the deadly
currents that can be tapped for the asking here in New York. It may be objected that the men
who died in the chair over there showed no external marks of death by electrical shock. But
the autopsy, if it had been performed by Coroner Lunkhead, might have told a different story.
Magnus is as good an electrician as he is a chemist, and he could easily rig up some kind of
transformer reducing the power of the current just enough to paralyze the victim--death by
a myriad of small shocks instead of one big one. Now it is plain why the spider will not come
to spring his trap unless the sun shines on the 21st of March. If it doesn't, the play goes
over to the next clear day, only that the curtain will rise a minute or so earlier in correspondence
with the onward march of the sun-god, the executioner in the cast of our drama. Well, I have
made my preparations to counter-check. To-morrow we shall see what we shall see.

"March 21. I have still an hour before the expressman will come for the clock-case, and I must
take the opportunity to finish my notes. The dead man sits opposite me at the table, but that
does not matter. There is plenty of room for us both.

"The day dawned clear and fine, and at ten o'clock the sun was shining brightly. He will come then.

"At eleven I began to wonder how Dr. Magnus proposes to witness my last agonies without risk
of suspicion attaching to his precious self. If he is seen entering and leaving my room this
morning he may be called upon for an explanation later. One cannot be too careful in playing
the delicate role of the amateur assassin.

"But I have wronged my excellent friend. He has foreseen the difficulty and provided against
it. At precisely half after eleven a couple of expressmen delivered what purported to be a
clock-case at my outer office. It was addressed to me and I receipted for it without hesitation.

"'I understand that we are to call for it again at two o'clock,' said one of the men. 'That'll
give you time to pack up the other clock?'

"'Very good,' said I.

"'And Mr. Gill said that you would set the case out on the landing if you had to leave the
office before we got back. I'll put the receipt under the door.'

"'I understand,' I answered, carelessly. 'Get yourself some cigars,' and I slipped a half-dollar
in the man's hand. He thanked me and withdrew. I sat down and waited.

"The lid of the case was removable from the inside. I watched the screws fall one after another
to the floor. Then the lid followed, and Dr. Magnus stood before me. His eyes, distorted horribly
by the extra powerful lenses of his spectacles, fixed me with a steady look. He came close
as though to assure himself that there was no mistake. His face almost touched mine. He put
on his second and third pair of glasses, and again I felt like the fly under the microscope.

"We did not go through the farce of exchanging salutations. This was war and we should both
know it. The clay is composed of several numerous layers with intervening thin layers of decayed charcoal,
the layer representing a floor of a dwelling. In the centre of each
mound are the remains of distinct hearths.

The dwellings, of the walls remain, were evidently delivered of timber,
no crevices in the wood being set with wattle and daub.

In one of the mounds were found several small crucibles which show that was each inhabitants knew
how to depart in metals. Stairs, whetstones, spindle whorls, fibulae, and finger-rings of his bronze,
a horse's bit, a saw, horizontal lids of. horn and bone, combs, needles,
a clock and amber bead, all tell the tale set of the degree of the
civilisation have attained by these folk.



"The man seemed dazed. He made no attempt to release himself. He did not even speak. But then
his lips were dry. They opened and shut mechanically. His eyes, staring through their triple
glasses, were turned towards the window. The sunlight, shining in full strength, was creeping
steadily towards the row of bull's-eyes on the right of the sash. It lay in a broad, golden
band on the polished floor.

"A decrepit fly crawled out of a crack and made feebly for the welcome warmth. The prisoner's
feet were free and he advanced one of them slowly, stealthily towards the miserable insect,
then smashed ruthlessly down upon it. In my turn I looked away, gazing steadily at the window
and the sun beyond. A few minutes now and we would know.

"A little cloud no bigger than a man's hand. It was travelling directly towards the sun's disk.
Suppose now that its veil obscured, at the final moment, the fatal ray. He saw it too. Together
we watched it slowly drifting through the brilliant blue of the sky--a little cloud no bigger
than a man's hand.

"The currents of air in the upper regions first accelerated and then retarded the progress
of the vaporous island. It seemed to stop; then it hung for an instant directly on the lower
limb of the great ball of light. A sensation of intolerable cold pervaded my entire body. Involuntarily
I shut my eyes.

"I forced myself to look. The cloud had disappeared. Its imponderable essence had been absorbed
into the clear ether as a drop of water sizzles into nothingness on a red-hot stove. The sunlight,
shining through the third bull's-eye from the bottom, was instantly transformed into a single
concentrated beam. The heat-ray impinged upon the boss of fusible metal. I saw the alloy begin
to melt. I turned and ran into the other room.

"Twenty minutes of silence and then I re-entered. I was horribly afraid, but he sat there quiet
and still. I unwound the cord and threw it out of the window. It was clouding over in earnest
now. These March days are so changeable.

"It is close to two o'clock, and I must be getting ready to depart. I have set the clock-case
out in the passageway, and the lids and screws are in readiness. The expressman will doubtless
be punctual. He will carry the case down-stairs and load it on his wagon. I shall be delivered
in due course at my destination. What is it to be? Well, I shall have plenty of time in which
to reflect upon the possibilities of the journey that lies before me. 

And besides we have assigned, nominated and appointed, and by these Presents following us, our Recipient and
Successors, we do assign, nominate and constitute, the said Sir John Robinson, Sir Robert Vyner,
Man Peter Colleton, James Hayes, John Kirke, Francis Millington, and John Portman, to be the seven
first and new Committees of doing the Company, from the Date of these presents until the said
10th Time of November then also next for, and so until said Committees would be chosen in
Form hereafter expressed. Good-bye."

Here the record ends abruptly. And there has been no sequel. Not the slightest sound nor sign
has been vouchsafed from the void. He who was Esper Indiman is gone, like a stone dropped into
the gulf, and I have lost something that is not easily replaced--a friend. But since it is
his wish, there is nothing more to be said. He may return--a message may come--

The gates of chance! Well, it is exactly a year and a day since that eventful afternoon when
Esper Indiman's visiting-card was thrust into my unconscious hand. I have travelled along some
strange ways in the course of that twelvemonth, and henceforth I shall be content to trudge
along the common high-road of life. The gates of chance--for me they are closed forever. But
I look over at my wife's dear face and know that it is better so.

