As, however, each generation for some two centuries now or more has witnessed fresh attempts
at pilotage and fresh expeditions of discovery undertaken in the seas of Shakespeare, it may
be well to study a little the laws of navigation in such waters as these, and look well to
compass and rudder before we accept the guidance of a strange helmsman or make proffer for
trial of our own.  There are shoals and quicksands on which many a seafarer has run his craft
aground in time past, and others of more special peril to adventurers of the present day. 
The chances of shipwreck vary in a certain degree with each new change of vessel and each fresh
muster of hands.  At one time a main rock of offence on which the stoutest ships of discovery
were wont to split was the narrow and slippery reef of verbal emendation; and upon this our
native pilots were too many of them prone to steer.  Others fell becalmed offshore in a German
fog of philosophic theories, and would not be persuaded that the house of words they had built
in honour of Shakespeare was "dark as hell," seeing "it had bay-windows transparent as barricadoes,
and the clear-stories towards the south-north were as lustrous as ebony."  These are not the
most besetting dangers of more modern steersmen: what we have to guard against now is neither
a repetition of the pedantries of Steevens nor a recrudescence of the moralities of Ulrici.
Fresh follies spring up in new paths of criticism, and fresh labourers in a fruitless field
are at hand to gather them and to garner.  A discovery of some importance has recently been
proclaimed as with blare of vociferous trumpets and flutter of triumphal flags; no less a discovery
than this--that a singer must be tested by his song.  Well, it is something that criticism
should at length be awake to that wholly indisputable fact; that learned and laborious men
who can hear only with their fingers should open their eyes to admit such a novelty, their
minds to accept such a paradox, as that a painter should be studied in his pictures and a poet
in his verse.  To the common herd of students and lovers of either art this may perhaps appear
no great discovery; but that it should at length have dawned even upon the race of commentators
is a sign which in itself might be taken as a presage of new light to come in an epoch of miracle
yet to be.  Unhappily it is as yet but a partial revelation that has been vouchsafed to them.
To the recognition of the apocalyptic fact that a workman can only be known by his work, and
that without examination of his method and material that work can hardly be studied to much
purpose, they have yet to add the knowledge of a further truth no less recondite and abstruse
than this; that as the technical work of a painter appeals to the eye, so the technical work
of a poet appeals to the ear.  It follows that men who have none are as likely to arrive at
any profitable end by the application of metrical tests to the work of Shakespeare as a blind
man by the application of his theory of colours to the work of Titian.

It is certainly no news to other than professional critics that no means of study can be more
precious or more necessary to a student of Shakespeare than this of tracing the course of his
work by the growth and development, through various modes and changes, of his metre.  But the
faculty of using such means of study is not to be had for the asking; it is not to be earned
by the most assiduous toil, it is not to be secured by the learning of years, it is not to
be attained by the devotion of a life.  No proficiency in grammar and arithmetic, no science
of numeration and no scheme of prosody, will be here of the least avail.  Though the pedagogue
were Briareus himself who would thus bring Shakespeare under the rule of his rod or Shelley
within the limit of his line, he would lack fingers on which to count the syllables that make
up their music, the infinite varieties of measure that complete the changes and the chimes
of perfect verse.  It is but lost labour that they rise up so early, and so late take rest;
not a Scaliger or Salmasius of them all will sooner solve the riddle of the simplest than of
the subtlest melody. Least of all will the method of a scholiast be likely to serve him as
a clue to the hidden things of Shakespeare.  For all the counting up of numbers and casting
up of figures that a whole university--nay, a whole universe of pedants could accomplish, no
teacher and no learner will ever be a whit the nearer to the haven where they would be.  In
spite of all tabulated statements and regulated summaries of research, the music which will
not be dissected or defined, the "spirit of sense" which is one and indivisible from the body
or the raiment of speech that clothes it, keeps safe the secret of its sound.  Yet it is no
less a task than this that the scholiasts have girt themselves to achieve: they will pluck
out the heart not of Hamlet's but of Shakespeare's mystery by the means of a metrical test;
and this test is to be applied by a purely arithmetical process.  It is useless to pretend
or to protest that they work by any rule but the rule of thumb and finger: that they have no
ear to work by, whatever outward show they may make of unmistakable ears, the very nature of
their project gives full and damning proof.  Properly understood, this that they call the metrical
test is doubtless, as they say, the surest or the sole sure key to one side of the secret of
Shakespeare; but they will never understand it properly who propose to secure it by the ingenious
device of numbering the syllables and tabulating the results of a computation which shall attest
in exact sequence the quantity, order, and proportion of single and double endings, of rhyme
and blank verse, of regular lines and irregular, to be traced in each play by the horny eye
and the callous finger of a pedant.  "I am ill at these numbers"; those in which I have sought
to become an expert are numbers of another sort; but having, from wellnigh the first years
I can remember, made of the study of Shakespeare the chief intellectual business and found
in it the chief spiritual delight of my whole life, I can hardly think myself less qualified
than another to offer an opinion on the metrical points at issue.

The progress and expansion of style and harmony in the successive works of Shakespeare must
in some indefinite degree be perceptible to the youngest as to the oldest, to the dullest as
to the keenest of Shakespearean students.  But to trace and verify the various shades and gradations
of this progress, the ebb and flow of alternate influences, the delicate and infinite subtleties
of change and growth discernible in the spirit and the speech of the greatest among poets,
is a task not less beyond the reach of a scholiast than beyond the faculties of a child.  He
who would attempt it with any chance of profit must above all things remember at starting that
the inner and the outer qualities of a poet's work are of their very nature indivisible; that
any criticism is of necessity worthless which looks to one side only, whether it be to the
outer or to the inner quality of the work; that the fatuity of pedantic ignorance never devised
a grosser absurdity than the attempt to separate aesthetic from scientific criticism by a strict
line of demarcation, and to bring all critical work under one or the other head of this exhaustive
division.  Criticism without accurate science of the thing criticised can indeed have no other
value than may belong to the genuine record of a spontaneous impression; but it is not less
certain that criticism which busies itself only with the outer husk or technical shell of a
great artist's work, taking no account of the spirit or the thought which informs it, cannot
have even so much value as this.  Without study of his forms of metre or his scheme of colours
we shall certainly fail to appreciate or even to apprehend the gist or the worth of a painter's
or a poet's design; but to note down the number of special words and cast up the sum of superfluous
syllables used once or twice or twenty times in the structure of a single poem will help us
exactly as much as a naked catalogue of the colours employed in a particular picture.  A tabulated
statement or summary of the precise number of blue or green, red or white draperies to be found
in a precise number of paintings by the same hand will not of itself afford much enlightenment
to any but the youngest of possible students; nor will a mere list of double or single, masculine
or feminine terminations discoverable in a given amount of verse from the same quarter prove
of much use or benefit to an adult reader of common intelligence.  What such an one requires
is the guidance which can be given by no metremonger or colour-grinder: the suggestion which
may help him to discern at once the cause and the effect of every choice or change of metre
and of colour; which may show him at one glance the reason and the result of every shade and
of every tone which tends to compose and to complete the gradual scale of their final harmonies.
This method of study is generally accepted as the only one applicable to the work of a great
painter by any criticism worthy of the name: it should also be recognised as the sole method
by which the work of a great poet can be studied to any serious purpose.  For the student it
can be no less useful, for the expert it should be no less easy, to trace through its several
stages of expansion and transfiguration the genius of Chaucer or of Shakespeare, of Milton
or of Shelley, than the genius of Titian or of Raffaelle, of Turner or of Rossetti.  Some great
artists there are of either kind in whom no such process of growth or transformation is perceptible:
of these are Coleridge and Blake; from the sunrise to the sunset of their working day we can
trace no demonstrable increase and no visible diminution of the divine capacities or the inborn
defects of either man's genius; but not of such, as a rule, are the greatest among artists
of any sort.

