As soon as Mr. Beaver left, they quarreled among themselves as to which one would take his
place and be the "big chief." There was no one capable of taking services, because such things
had always been in the hands of Mr. Beaver and his paid workers, who now were gone. None of
the elders or deacons had ever preached a sermon in his life. Some tried, but their efforts
did not draw the crowds, and attendance soon dwindled to almost nothing. Then quarrels about
the property began. True, it belonged not to them, but to the mission board; but surely it
was up to the church to look after it while the missionary was gone! Several so-called Christian
families moved into the empty buildings, with or without the agreement of the deacons and elders;
but then, thought they, the buildings should be occupied, and of course these people will pay
us rent! (They never did.) Church services gradually ceased. A few faithful Christians remained
true to the Lord, and met in a home for occasional services; but since none had been trained
to lead meetings, all they could do was sing, read the Bible, and pray.

But what had happened at the other station? There the case was far different. They had gone
through the sorrows of war, but they had done so with the Lord at their side. Continuing the
work of the church was no problem--they had been doing it themselves all along. Money was hard
to get, and many young men had to go to war; but the hearts of the people were open as never
before, and they had baptisms once and again. They missed Mr. Trainer very much; but they were
driven more than ever to the Lord, and found Him sufficient for their every need.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is easy to say that one man was right and the other was wrong. But how many of us would
not have followed in the footsteps of Mr. Beaver if we had not been warned? And how many of
us missionaries today, even though warned, are not still in danger of making ourselves the
little center around which the mission station revolves?

"It's all very well to say that the Christians should take the responsibility from the very
beginning," we think; "but here it is impossible. These people are too poor! And they are too
ignorant! No, they certainly would do everything wrong if I let them take the lead!" And so
we go on telling everyone what he ought to do, and seeing that he does it; and in the eyes
of the young believers the Christian life becomes simply a matter of doing what the missionary
says.

That is not the way that Paul built churches. Great and dynamic character that he was, he so
taught and led his groups of young Christians that when after a few months or a year or two
he left them they were able to carry on by themselves, and even to grow. He did not put up
church buildings for them, nor schools, nor give them "grants." He brought them to the place
where they could function as living churches, in direct union with the Head, and not centered
upon himself. His efforts were directed to building up churches that would be able to stand
alone, because they stood in the strength of the One who upheld Paul.

