Many, many years before Wendell Phillips lived there was another boy. He worked in the temple.
He was a youthful assistant to the minister. I suppose he ran errands for him, and performed
any and every service about the temple the minister desired. One night, as usual, the boy went
to bed and fell asleep. As he slept he heard a voice calling him. Now he was an obedient boy,
and though it was hard for him to rouse himself from a sound sleep and leave his comfortable
bed he did so. He ran to the minister saying, "Here I am, you called me, what do you want?"
The minister said, "No, my boy, I did not call you, go back to bed." The boy returned to his
bed and again went to sleep. A second time, and even a third time he was called. Each time
the faithful, obedient lad leaped from his couch and ran to the minister. The third time it
dawned on the mind of the minister that the voice the lad heard was the voice of God, calling
him to himself and to his special service. Being a wise and loving man he said to the boy,
"Return to your bed, and if you hear the call again, say, 'Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth.'"
The boy did as instructed and that night was forever memorable in his life, for that was the
night God called Samuel and Samuel answered.

MEMORY HYMN [674]

    "Hushed was the evening hymn."

A HAPPY HOME

This morning, the first thing, my boy said to me, "Tell me a story." This is the story I told
him. Once upon a time, it was a long, long time ago, so long ago that we can scarcely realize
how long, more than twenty-five hundred years ago. Well, once upon a time there was a home--homes
then were quite the same in most ways as homes are now--there were children in that home. They
played and were happy. And too, I suppose they had their misunderstandings, and sometimes the
children quarreled. One day the children heard music. Looking up the street they saw a great
company of men marching right toward them. They were soldiers. There were thirty thousand of
them. In the center of the marching army were some oxen. The oxen were harnessed to a fine,
new cart. On the cart was a chest, most beautifully carved and decorated. On the soldiers came.
What was the amazement of the boys and girls when they stopped right in front of their house!
Then the king, majestic in his bearing and gorgeously arrayed, came to their father and said,
"I want to leave this chest here in your house. Take good care of it." The king's men brought
the wonderful chest within, set it down, went out, and the army marched away. From that hour
the home was a different home. There was joy, and peace, and an utter absence of quarreling.
Three months passed by. Then one day the king came again and took the chest away. But peace
and happiness did not depart with the chest. The home was as happy and peaceful and free from
bickering through all the coming months as through the three when the wonderful chest was in
the house. What was the chest? It was not the king's chest; it was the ark of God. You will
find this true story in Second Samuel, the sixth chapter.

Memory Verse, II Samuel 6: 11

    "And the ark of the Lord continued in the house of Obededom the
    Gittite three months; and the Lord blessed him, and all his
    household."

MEMORY HYMN [671]

    "O happy home, where thou art loved the dearest."

SYSTEM

Here are three books. I put them down like this, one beside the other, that is system. I throw
them down carelessly, that is not system, it is not orderly.

Here is a little box. Inside are letters, such as you see on the sign in front of the Church.
Each letter has a space all its own. Now if A were put down at M, M at Z, and E at X, what
a task it would be to pick out the letters and make a sign!

