But there proved to be little to tell, and Sharon gradually wearied from the effort of evoking
this little. Yes, there had been fights. Big ones, lots of noise, you bet! The food was all
right. The Germans were good fighters. No; he had not been wounded; yes, that was strange.
The French were good fighters. The British were good fighters. They were all good fighters.

"But didn't you have any close mix-ups at all?" persisted Sharon.

"Oh, now and then; sometimes you couldn't get out of it."

"Well, my shining stars! Can't you tell a fellow?"

"Oh, it wasn't much! You'd be out at night, maybe, and you'd meet one, and you'd trade a few
punches, and then you'd tangle."

"And you'd leave him there, eh?"

"Oh, sometimes!"

"Who did win the war, anyway?" Sharon was a little irritated by this reticence.

The other grinned.

"The British say they won it, and the last I heard the French said it was God Almighty. Take
your choice. Of course you did hear other gossip going round--you know how things get started." 

We were also now in calm water, so could give vent to our excitement
without fear of consequences.

We had indeed had a terrible time of it since we left Scotland: even the captain acknowledged
that the voyage had been unusually rough. Dear me, Suz! I should think as much!"

On the crest of a hill overlooking a wide sweep of valley farmland the driver stopped the car
in shade and scanned the fields of grain where the green was already fading.

"There's the Home Farm," said Sharon. "High mighty! Some change since my grandad came in here
and fit the Injins and catamounts off it. I wonder what he'd say if he could hear what I'm
paying for farm help right now--and hard to get at that. I don't know how I've managed. See
that mower going down there in the south forty? Well, the best man I've had for two years is
cutting that patch of timothy. Who do you guess? It's my girl, Juliana. She not only took charge
for me, but she jumped in herself and did two men's work.

"Funny girl, that one. So quiet all these years, never saying much, never letting out. But
she let out when the men went. I guess lots have been like her. You can see a woman doing anything
nowadays. Why, they got a woman burglar over to the county seat the other night! And I just
read the speech of a silly-softy of a congressman telling why they shouldn't have the vote.
Hell! Excuse me for cursing so."

Unconsciously Wilbur had been following with his eyes the course of the willow-bordered creek.
He half expected to hear the crisp little tacking of machine guns from its shelter, and he
uneasily scanned the wood at his left. It was the valley of the Surmelin, and yonder was the Marne.

"I keep thinking I'll be shot at," he explained.

"You won't be. Safe as a church here--just like being in God's pocket. Say, don't that house
look good to you?" He cocked a thumb toward the dwelling of the Home Farm in a flat space beyond
the creek. It was the house of dull red brick, broad, low, square fronted, with many windows,
the house in a green setting to which they had gone so many years before. Heat waves made it
shimmer.

"Yes, it looks good," conceded Wilbur.

"Then listen, young man! You're to live there. It'll be your headquarters. You're going to
manage the four other farms from there, and give me a chance to be seventy-three years old
next Tuesday without a thing on my mind. You ain't a farmer, but you're educated; you can learn
anything after you've seen it done; and farming is mostly commonsense and machinery nowadays.
So that's where you'll be, understand? No more dubbing round doing this and that, printing
office one day, garage the next, and nothing much the next. You're going to settle down and
take up your future, see?"

"Well, if you think I can."

