Candide, driven from terrestrial paradise, walked a long while without knowing where, weeping,
raising his eyes to heaven, turning them often towards the most magnificent of castles which
imprisoned the purest of noble young ladies. He lay down to sleep without supper, in the middle
of a field between two furrows. The snow fell in large flakes. Next day Candide, all benumbed,
dragged himself towards the neighbouring town which was called Waldberghofftrarbk-dikdorff,
having no money, dying of hunger and fatigue, he stopped sorrowfully at the door of an inn.
Two men dressed in blue observed him.

"Comrade," said one, "here is a well-built young fellow, and of proper height."

They went up to Candide and very civilly invited him to dinner.

"Gentlemen," replied Candide, with a most engaging modesty, "you do me great honour, but I
have not wherewithal to pay my share."

"Oh, sir," said one of the blues to him, "people of your appearance and of your merit never
pay anything: are you not five feet five inches high?"

"Yes, sir, that is my height," answered he, making a low bow.

"Come, sir, seat yourself; not only will we pay your reckoning, but we will never suffer such
a man as you to want money; men are only born to assist one another."

"You are right," said Candide; "this is what I was always taught by Mr. Pangloss, and I see
plainly that all is for the best."

They begged of him to accept a few crowns. He took them, and wished to give them his note;
they refused; they seated themselves at table.

"Love you not deeply?"

"Oh yes," answered he; "I deeply love Miss Cunegonde."

"No," said one of the gentlemen, "we ask you if you do not deeply love the King of the Bulgarians?"

"Not at all," said he; "for I have never seen him."

"What! he is the best of kings, and we must drink his health."

"Oh! very willingly, gentlemen," and he drank.

"That is enough," they tell him. "Now you are the help, the support, the defender, the hero
of the Bulgarians. Your fortune is made, and your glory is assured."

Instantly they fettered him, and carried him away to the regiment. There he was made to wheel
about to the right, and to the left, to draw his rammer, to return his rammer, to present,
to fire, to march, and they gave him thirty blows with a cudgel. The next day he did his exercise
a little less badly, and he received but twenty blows. The day following they gave him only
ten, and he was regarded by his comrades as a prodigy.

Candide, all stupefied, could not yet very well realise how he was a hero. He resolved one
fine day in spring to go for a walk, marching straight before him, believing that it was a
privilege of the human as well as of the animal species to make use of their legs as they pleased.
He had advanced two leagues when he was overtaken by four others, heroes of six feet, who bound
him and carried him to a dungeon. He was asked which he would like the best, to be whipped
six-and-thirty times through all the regiment, or to receive at once twelve balls of lead in
his brain. He vainly said that human will is free, and that he chose neither the one nor the
other. He was forced to make a choice; he determined, in virtue of that gift of God called
liberty, to run the gauntlet six-and-thirty times. He bore this twice. The regiment was composed
of two thousand men; that composed for him four thousand strokes, which laid bare all his muscles
and nerves, from the nape of his neck quite down to his rump. As they were going to proceed
to a third whipping, Candide, able to bear no more, begged as a favour that they would be so
good as to shoot him. He obtained this favour; they bandaged his eyes, and bade him kneel down.
The King of the Bulgarians passed at this moment and ascertained the nature of the crime. As
he had great talent, he understood from all that he learnt of Candide that he was a young metaphysician,
extremely ignorant of the things of this world, and he accorded him his pardon with a clemency
which will bring him praise in all the journals, and throughout all ages.

An able surgeon cured Candide in three weeks by means of emollients taught by Dioscorides.
He had already a little skin, and was able to march when the King of the Bulgarians gave battle
to the King of the Abares.[2]

III

HOW CANDIDE MADE HIS ESCAPE FROM THE BULGARIANS, AND WHAT AFTERWARDS BECAME OF HIM.

There was never anything so gallant, so spruce, so brilliant, and so well disposed as the two
armies. Trumpets, fifes, hautboys, drums, and cannon made music such as Hell itself had never
heard. The cannons first of all laid flat about six thousand men on each side; the muskets
swept away from this best of worlds nine or ten thousand ruffians who infested its surface.
The bayonet was also a sufficient reason for the death of several thousands. The whole might
amount to thirty thousand souls. Candide, who trembled like a philosopher, hid himself as well
as he could during this heroic butchery.

At length, while the two kings were causing Te Deum to be sung each in his own camp, Candide
resolved to go and reason elsewhere on effects and causes. He passed over heaps of dead and
dying, and first reached a neighbouring village; it was in cinders, it was an Abare village
which the Bulgarians had burnt according to the laws of war. Here, old men covered with wounds,
beheld their wives, hugging their children to their bloody breasts, massacred before their
faces; there, their daughters, disembowelled and breathing their last after having satisfied
the natural wants of Bulgarian heroes; while others, half burnt in the flames, begged to be
despatched. The earth was strewed with brains, arms, and legs.

Candide fled quickly to another village; it belonged to the Bulgarians; and the Abarian heroes
had treated it in the same way. Candide, walking always over palpitating limbs or across ruins,
arrived at last beyond the seat of war, with a few provisions in his knapsack, and Miss Cunegonde
always in his heart. His provisions failed him when he arrived in Holland; but having heard
that everybody was rich in that country, and that they were Christians, he did not doubt but
he should meet with the same treatment from them as he had met with in the Baron's castle,
before Miss Cunegonde's bright eyes were the cause of his expulsion thence.

He asked alms of several grave-looking people, who all answered him, that if he continued to
follow this trade they would confine him to the house of correction, where he should be taught
to get a living.

The next he addressed was a man who had been haranguing a large assembly for a whole hour on
the subject of charity. But the orator, looking askew, said:

"What are you doing here? Are you for the good cause?"

"There can be no effect without a cause," modestly answered Candide; "the whole is necessarily
concatenated and arranged for the best. It was necessary for me to have been banished from
the presence of Miss Cunegonde, to have afterwards run the gauntlet, and now it is necessary
I should beg my bread until I learn to earn it; all this cannot be otherwise."

"My friend," said the orator to him, "do you believe the Pope to be Anti-Christ?"

"I have not heard it," answered Candide; "but whether he be, or whether he be not, I want bread."

"Thou dost not deserve to eat," said the other. "Begone, rogue; begone, wretch; do not come
near me again."

The orator's wife, putting her head out of the window, and spying a man that doubted whether
the Pope was Anti-Christ, poured over him a full.... Oh, heavens! to what excess does religious
zeal carry the ladies.

A man who had never been christened, a good Anabaptist, named James, beheld the cruel and ignominious
treatment shown to one of his brethren, an unfeathered biped with a rational soul, he took
him home, cleaned him, gave him bread and beer, presented him with two florins, and even wished
to teach him the manufacture of Persian stuffs which they make in Holland. Candide, almost
prostrating himself before him, cried:

"Master Pangloss has well said that all is for the best in this world, for I am infinitely
more touched by your extreme generosity than with the inhumanity of that gentleman in the black
coat and his lady."

The next day, as he took a walk, he met a beggar all covered with scabs, his eyes diseased,
the end of his nose eaten away, his mouth distorted, his teeth black, choking in his throat,
tormented with a violent cough, and spitting out a tooth at each effort.

IV

HOW CANDIDE FOUND HIS OLD MASTER PANGLOSS, AND WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM.

Candide, yet more moved with compassion than with horror, gave to this shocking beggar the
two florins which he had received from the honest Anabaptist James. The spectre looked at him
very earnestly, dropped a few tears, and fell upon his neck. Candide recoiled in disgust.

"Alas!" said one wretch to the other, "do you no longer know your dear Pangloss?"

"What do I hear? You, my dear master! you in this terrible plight! What misfortune has happened
to you? Why are you no longer in the most magnificent of castles? What has become of Miss Cunegonde,
the pearl of girls, and nature's masterpiece?"

"I am so weak that I cannot stand," said Pangloss.

Upon which Candide carried him to the Anabaptist's stable, and gave him a crust of bread. As
soon as Pangloss had refreshed himself a little:

"Well," said Candide, "Cunegonde?"

"She is dead," replied the other.

Candide fainted at this word; his friend recalled his senses with a little bad vinegar which
he found by chance in the stable. Candide reopened his eyes.

"Cunegonde is dead! Ah, best of worlds, where art thou? But of what illness did she die? Was
it not for grief, upon seeing her father kick me out of his magnificent castle?"

"No," said Pangloss, "she was ripped open by the Bulgarian soldiers, after having been violated
by many; they broke the Baron's head for attempting to defend her; my lady, her mother, was
cut in pieces; my poor pupil was served just in the same manner as his sister; and as for the
castle, they have not left one stone upon another, not a barn, nor a sheep, nor a duck, nor
a tree; but we have had our revenge, for the Abares have done the very same thing to a neighbouring
barony, which belonged to a Bulgarian lord."

At this discourse Candide fainted again; but coming to himself, and having said all that it
became him to say, inquired into the cause and effect, as well as into the sufficient reason
that had reduced Pangloss to so miserable a plight.

"Alas!" said the other, "it was love; love, the comfort of the human species, the preserver
of the universe, the soul of all sensible beings, love, tender love."

"Alas!" said Candide, "I know this love, that sovereign of hearts, that soul of our souls;
yet it never cost me more than a kiss and twenty kicks on the backside. How could this beautiful
cause produce in you an effect so abominable?"

Pangloss made answer in these terms: "Oh, my dear Candide, you remember Paquette, that pretty
wench who waited on our noble Baroness; in her arms I tasted the delights of paradise, which
produced in me those hell torments with which you see me devoured; she was infected with them,
she is perhaps dead of them. This present Paquette received of a learned Grey Friar, who had
traced it to its source; he had had it of an old countess, who had received it from a cavalry
captain, who owed it to a marchioness, who took it from a page, who had received it from a
Jesuit, who when a novice had it in a direct line from one of the companions of Christopher
Columbus.[3] For my part I shall give it to nobody, I am dying."

"Oh, Pangloss!" cried Candide, "what a strange genealogy! Is not the Devil the original stock
of it?"

"Not at all," replied this great man, "it was a thing unavoidable, a necessary ingredient in
the best of worlds; for if Columbus had not in an island of America caught this disease, which
contaminates the source of life, frequently even hinders generation, and which is evidently
opposed to the great end of nature, we should have neither chocolate nor cochineal. We are
also to observe that upon our continent, this distemper is like religious controversy, confined
to a particular spot. The Turks, the Indians, the Persians, the Chinese, the Siamese, the Japanese,
know nothing of it; but there is a sufficient reason for believing that they will know it in
their turn in a few centuries. In the meantime, it has made marvellous progress among us, especially
in those great armies composed of honest well-disciplined hirelings, who decide the destiny
of states; for we may safely affirm that when an army of thirty thousand men fights another
of an equal number, there are about twenty thousand of them p-x-d on each side."

"Well, this is wonderful!" said Candide, "but you must get cured."

"Alas! how can I?" said Pangloss, "I have not a farthing, my friend, and all over the globe
there is no letting of blood or taking a glister, without paying, or somebody paying for you."

These last words determined Candide; he went and flung himself at the feet of the charitable
Anabaptist James, and gave him so touching a picture of the state to which his friend was reduced,
that the good man did not scruple to take Dr. Pangloss into his house, and had him cured at
his expense. In the cure Pangloss lost only an eye and an ear. He wrote well, and knew arithmetic
perfectly. The Anabaptist James made him his bookkeeper. At the end of two months, being obliged
to go to Lisbon about some mercantile affairs, he took the two philosophers with him in his
ship. Pangloss explained to him how everything was so constituted that it could not be better.
James was not of this opinion.

"It is more likely," said he, "mankind have a little corrupted nature, for they were not born
wolves, and they have become wolves; God has given them neither cannon of four-and-twenty pounders,
nor bayonets; and yet they have made cannon and bayonets to destroy one another. Into this
account I might throw not only bankrupts, but Justice which seizes on the effects of bankrupts
to cheat the creditors."

"All this was indispensable," replied the one-eyed doctor, "for private misfortunes make the
general good, so that the more private misfortunes there are the greater is the general good."

While he reasoned, the sky darkened, the winds blew from the four quarters, and the ship was
assailed by a most terrible tempest within sight of the port of Lisbon.

Half dead of that inconceivable anguish which the rolling of a ship produces, one-half of the
passengers were not even sensible of the danger. The other half shrieked and prayed. The sheets
were rent, the masts broken, the vessel gaped. Work who would, no one heard, no one commanded.
The Anabaptist being upon deck bore a hand; when a brutish sailor struck him roughly and laid
him sprawling; but with the violence of the blow he himself tumbled head foremost overboard,
and stuck upon a piece of the broken mast. Honest James ran to his assistance, hauled him up,
and from the effort he made was precipitated into the sea in sight of the sailor, who left
him to perish, without deigning to look at him. Candide drew near and saw his benefactor, who
rose above the water one moment and was then swallowed up for ever. He was just going to jump
after him, but was prevented by the philosopher Pangloss, who demonstrated to him that the
Bay of Lisbon had been made on purpose for the Anabaptist to be drowned. While he was proving
this à priori, the ship foundered; all perished except Pangloss, Candide, and that brutal sailor
who had drowned the good Anabaptist. The villain swam safely to the shore, while Pangloss and
Candide were borne thither upon a plank.

As soon as they recovered themselves a little they walked toward Lisbon. They had some money
left, with which they hoped to save themselves from starving, after they had escaped drowning.
Scarcely had they reached the city, lamenting the death of their benefactor, when they felt
the earth tremble under their feet. The sea swelled and foamed in the harbour, and beat to
pieces the vessels riding at anchor. Whirlwinds of fire and ashes covered the streets and public
places; houses fell, roofs were flung upon the pavements, and the pavements were scattered.
Thirty thousand inhabitants of all ages and sexes were crushed under the ruins.[4] The sailor,
whistling and swearing, said there was booty to be gained here.

"What can be the sufficient reason of this phenomenon?" said Pangloss.

"This is the Last Day!" cried Candide.

The sailor ran among the ruins, facing death to find money; finding it, he took it, got drunk,
and having slept himself sober, purchased the favours of the first good-natured wench whom
he met on the ruins of the destroyed houses, and in the midst of the dying and the dead. Pangloss
pulled him by the sleeve.

"My friend," said he, "this is not right. You sin against the universal reason; you choose
your time badly."

"S'blood and fury!" answered the other; "I am a sailor and born at Batavia. Four times have
I trampled upon the crucifix in four voyages to Japan[5]; a fig for thy universal reason."

Some falling stones had wounded Candide. He lay stretched in the street covered with rubbish.

"Alas!" said he to Pangloss, "get me a little wine and oil; I am dying."

"This concussion of the earth is no new thing," answered Pangloss. "The city of Lima, in America,
experienced the same convulsions last year; the same cause, the same effects; there is certainly
a train of sulphur under ground from Lima to Lisbon."

"Nothing more probable," said Candide; "but for the love of God a little oil and wine."

"How, probable?" replied the philosopher. "I maintain that the point is capable of being demonstrated."

Candide fainted away, and Pangloss fetched him some water from a neighbouring fountain. The
following day they rummaged among the ruins and found provisions, with which they repaired
their exhausted strength. After this they joined with others in relieving those inhabitants
who had escaped death. Some, whom they had succoured, gave them as good a dinner as they could
in such disastrous circumstances; true, the repast was mournful, and the company moistened
their bread with tears; but Pangloss consoled them, assuring them that things could not be
otherwise.

"For," said he, "all that is is for the best. If there is a volcano at Lisbon it cannot be
elsewhere. It is impossible that things should be other than they are; for everything is right."

A little man dressed in black, Familiar of the Inquisition, who sat by him, politely took up
his word and said:

"Apparently, then, sir, you do not believe in original sin; for if all is for the best there
has then been neither Fall nor punishment."

"I humbly ask your Excellency's pardon," answered Pangloss, still more politely; "for the Fall
and curse of man necessarily entered into the system of the best of worlds."

"Sir," said the Familiar, "you do not then believe in liberty?"

"Your Excellency will excuse me," said Pangloss; "liberty is consistent with absolute necessity,
for it was necessary we should be free; for, in short, the determinate will----"

Pangloss was in the middle of his sentence, when the Familiar beckoned to his footman, who
gave him a glass of wine from Porto or Opporto.

After the earthquake had destroyed three-fourths of Lisbon, the sages of that country could
think of no means more effectual to prevent utter ruin than to give the people a beautiful
auto-da-fé[6]; for it had been decided by the University of Coimbra, that the burning of a
few people alive by a slow fire, and with great ceremony, is an infallible secret to hinder
the earth from quaking.

In consequence hereof, they had seized on a Biscayner, convicted of having married his godmother,
and on two Portuguese, for rejecting the bacon which larded a chicken they were eating[7];
after dinner, they came and secured Dr. Pangloss, and his disciple Candide, the one for speaking
his mind, the other for having listened with an air of approbation. They were conducted to
separate apartments, extremely cold, as they were never incommoded by the sun. Eight days after
they were dressed in san-benitos[8] and their heads ornamented with paper mitres. The mitre
and san-benito belonging to Candide were painted with reversed flames and with devils that
had neither tails nor claws; but Pangloss's devils had claws and tails and the flames were
upright. They marched in procession thus habited and heard a very pathetic sermon, followed
by fine church music. Candide was whipped in cadence while they were singing; the Biscayner,
and the two men who had refused to eat bacon, were burnt; and Pangloss was hanged, though that
was not the custom. The same day the earth sustained a most violent concussion.

Candide, terrified, amazed, desperate, all bloody, all palpitating, said to himself:

"If this is the best of possible worlds, what then are the others? Well, if I had been only
whipped I could put up with it, for I experienced that among the Bulgarians; but oh, my dear
Pangloss! thou greatest of philosophers, that I should have seen you hanged, without knowing
for what! Oh, my dear Anabaptist, thou best of men, that thou should'st have been drowned in
the very harbour! Oh, Miss Cunegonde, thou pearl of girls! that thou should'st have had thy
belly ripped open!"

Thus he was musing, scarce able to stand, preached at, whipped, absolved, and blessed, when
an old woman accosted him saying:

"My son, take courage and follow me."

VII

HOW THE OLD WOMAN TOOK CARE OF CANDIDE, AND HOW HE FOUND THE OBJECT HE LOVED.

Candide did not take courage, but followed the old woman to a decayed house, where she gave
him a pot of pomatum to anoint his sores, showed him a very neat little bed, with a suit of
clothes hanging up, and left him something to eat and drink.

"Eat, drink, sleep," said she, "and may our lady of Atocha,[9] the great St. Anthony of Padua,
and the great St. James of Compostella, receive you under their protection. I shall be back
to-morrow."

Candide, amazed at all he had suffered and still more with the charity of the old woman, wished
to kiss her hand.

"It is not my hand you must kiss," said the old woman; "I shall be back to-morrow. Anoint yourself
with the pomatum, eat and sleep."

Candide, notwithstanding so many disasters, ate and slept. The next morning the old woman brought
him his breakfast, looked at his back, and rubbed it herself with another ointment: in like
manner she brought him his dinner; and at night she returned with his supper. The day following
she went through the very same ceremonies.

"Who are you?" said Candide; "who has inspired you with so much goodness? What return can I
make you?"

The good woman made no answer; she returned in the evening, but brought no supper.

"Come with me," she said, "and say nothing."

