That night the glare of a big fire inside the harbour showed that Drucour felt too weak to
hold the Royal Battery. Unlike his incompetent predecessor, however, he took away everything
movable that could be turned to good account in Louisbourg; and he left the works a useless
ruin. The following day he destroyed and abandoned the battery at Lighthouse Point. Thus two
fortifications were given up, one of them for the second time, before a single shot had been
fired either from or against them. Time, labour, and expense had all gone for worse than nothing,
as the positions were at once used by the enemy on each occasion. The wasted expense was of
the usual kind-one half spent on inferior construction, the other pocketed by the Louisbourg
officials. Drucour himself was not at all to blame, either for the way the works were built
or the way in which they had to be abandoned. With odds of more than three to one against him,
he had no men to spare for trying to keep the British at arm's length.

Amherst pitched his camp in a crescent two miles long, facing Louisbourg two miles off. His
left overlooked the French squadron in the south-west harbour next to Louisbourg at the distance
of a mile. His right rested on Flat Point. Thus Louisbourg itself was entirely surrounded both
by land and sea; for the gaps left at the Royal Battery and Lighthouse Point were immediately
seized by the British. Wolfe marched round the harbour on the 12th with 1,300 infantry and
a strong detachment of artillery. The guns for the Royal Battery and other points inside the
harbour were hauled into place by teams of about a hundred men each. Those for Lighthouse Point
were sent round by sea, landed, with immense difficulty, more than a mile distant on the rock-bound
shore, hauled up the cliff, and then dragged back over the roughest of ground to the battery.
It was, in fact, a repetition of what the American militiamen had done in 1745. Wolfe worked
incessantly, directing and encouraging his toiling men. The bluejackets seconded his efforts
by doing even harder work. Their boats were often stove, and a catamaran was wrecked with a
brass twenty-four pounder on board. But nothing could stop the perfect co-operation between
the two halves of the single United Service. 'The Admiral and General,' wrote Wolfe, 'have
carried on the public service with great harmony, industry, and union. Mr Boscawen has given
all, and even more than we could ask of him. He has furnished arms and ammunition, pioneers,
sappers, miners, gunners, carpenters, and boats.'

While Wolfe was doing his eight days' work of preparation at the Lighthouse Battery, between
the 12th and the 20th, Amherst, whose favourite precept was 'slow and sure,' was performing
an even more arduous task by building a road from Flat Point to where he intended to make his
trenches. This road meandered over the least bad line that could be found in that country of
alternate rock, bog, sand, scrub, bush, and marshy ponds. The working party was always a thousand
strong, and shifts, of course, were constant. Boscawen landed marines to man the works along
the shore, and bluejackets for any handy-man's job required. This proved of great advantage
to the army, which had so many more men set free for other duties. The landing of stores went
on from sunrise to sunset, whenever the pounding surf calmed down enough. Landing the guns
was, of course, much harder still. It accounted for most of the hundred boats that were dashed
to pieces against that devouring shore.

Thorough and persistent as this work was, however, it gave the garrison of Louisbourg little
outward sign of what was happening just beyond the knolls and hillocks. Besides, just at this
time, when there was a lull before the storm that was soon to burst from Wolfe and Amherst,
both sides had more dramatic things to catch the general eye. First, there was the worthy namesake
of 'the saucy Arethusa' in the rival British Navy, the Arethuse, whose daring and skilful captain,
Vauquelin, had moored her beside the Barachois, or sea-pond, so that he could outflank Amherst's
approach against the right land face of Louisbourg. Then, of still more immediate interest
was the nimble little Echo, which tried to run the gauntlet of the British fleet on June 18,
a day long afterwards made famous on the field of Waterloo. Drucour had entrusted his wife
and several other ladies to the captain of the Echo, who was to make a dash for Quebec with
dispatches for the governor of Canada. A muffling fog shut down and seemed to promise her safety
from the British, though it brought added danger from that wrecking coast. With infinite precautions
she slipped out on the ebb, between the French at the Island Battery and Wolfe's strenuous
workers at the Lighthouse Point. But the breeze that bore her north also raised the fog enough
to let the Juno and Sutherland sight her and give chase. She crowded on a press of sail till
she was overhauled, when she fought her captors till her case was hopeless.

Madame Drucour and the other ladies were then sent back to Louisbourg with every possible consideration
for their feelings. This act of kindness was remembered later on, when a regular interlude
of courtesies followed Drucour's offer to send his own particularly skilful surgeon to any
wounded British officer who might need his services. Amherst sent in several letters and messages
from wounded Frenchmen, and a special message from himself to Madame Drucour, complimenting
her upon her bravery, and begging her acceptance of some West Indian pineapples. Once more
the flag of truce came out, this time to return the compliment with a basket of wine. As the
gate swung to, the cannon roared again on either side. Amherst's was no unmerited compliment;
for Madame Drucour used to mount the ramparts every day, no matter what the danger was, and
fire three cannon for the honour of her king. But the French had no monopoly in woman's work.
True, there were no officers' wives to play the heroine on the British side. But there were
others to play a humbler part, and play it well. In those days each ship or regiment bore a
certain proportion of women on their books for laundering and other work which is still done,
at their own option, by women 'married on the strength' of the Army. Most of the several hundred
women in the besieging fleet and army became so keen to see the batteries armed that they volunteered
to team the guns, which, in some cases, they actually did, with excellent effect.

By June 26 Louisbourg had no defences left beyond its own walls, except the reduced French
squadron huddled together in the south-west harbour. The more exposed ships had come down on
the 21st, after a day's bombardment from Wolfe's terrific battery at Lighthouse Point: 'they
in return making an Infernall Fire from all their Broadsides; but, wonderfull to think of,
no harm done us.' Five days later every single gun in the Island Battery was dumb. At the same
time Amherst occupied Green Hill, directly opposite the citadel and only half a mile away.
Yet Drucour, with dauntless resolution, resisted for another month. His object was not to save
his own doomed fortress but Quebec.

He needed all his resolution. The British were pressing him on every side, determined to end
the siege in time to transfer their force elsewhere. Louisbourg itself was visibly weakening.
The walls were already crumbling under Amherst's converging fire, though the British attack
had not yet begun in earnest. Surely, thoroughly, and with an irresistible zeal, the besiegers
had built their road, dragged up their guns, and begun to worm their way forward, under skilfully
constructed cover, towards the right land face of Louisbourg, next to the south-west harbour,
where the ground was less boggy than on the left. The French ships fired on the British approaches;
but, with one notable exception, not effectively, because some of them masked others, while
they were all under British fire themselves, both from the Lighthouse and the Royal Batteries,
as well as from smaller batteries along the harbour. Vauquelin, who shares with Iberville the
honour of being the naval hero of New France, was the one exception. He fought the Arethuse
so splendidly that he hampered the British left attack long enough to give Louisbourg a comparative
respite for a few hasty repairs.

But nothing could now resist Boscawen if the British should choose to run in past the demolished
Island Battery and attack the French fleet, first from a distance, with the help of the Lighthouse
and Royal Batteries, and then hand-to-hand. So the French admiral, des Gouttes, agreed to sink
four of his largest vessels in the fairway. This, however, still left a gap; so two more were
sunk. The passage was then mistakenly reported to be safely closed. The crews, two thousand
strong, were landed and camped along the streets. This caused outspoken annoyance to the army
and to the inhabitants, who thought the crews had not shown fight enough afloat, who consequently
thought them of little use ashore, who found them in the way, and who feared they had come
in without bringing a proper contribution of provisions to the common stock.

The Arethuse was presently withdrawn from her perilous berth next to the British left approach,
as she was the only frigate left which seemed to have a chance of running the gauntlet of Boscawen's
fleet. Her shot-holes were carefully stopped; and on the night of July 14, she was silently
towed to the harbour mouth, whence she sailed for France with dispatches from Drucour and des
Gouttes. The fog held dense, but the wind was light, and she could hardly forge ahead under
every stitch of canvas. All round her the lights of the British fleet and convoy rose and fell
with the heaving rollers, like little embers blurring through the mist. Yet Vauquelin took
his dark and silent way quite safely, in and out between them, and reached France just after
Louisbourg had fallen.

Meanwhile Drucour had made several sorties against the British front, while Boishebert had
attacked their rear with a few hundred Indians, Acadians, and Canadians. Boishebert's attack
was simply brushed aside by the rearguard of Amherst's overwhelming force. The American Rangers
ought to have defeated it themselves, without the aid of regulars. But they were not the same
sort of men as those who had besieged Louisbourg thirteen years before. The best had volunteered
then. The worst had been enlisted now. Of course, there were a few good men with some turn
for soldiering. But most were of the wastrel and wharf-rat kind. Wolfe expressed his opinion
of them in very vigorous terms: 'About 500 Rangers are come, which, to appearance, are little
better than la canaille. These Americans are in general the dirtiest, most contemptible, cowardly
dogs that you can conceive. There is no depending upon 'em in action. They fall down dead in
their own dirt, and desert by battalions, officers and all.'

Drucour's sorties, made by good French regulars, were much more serious than Boishebert's feeble,
irregular attack. On the night of July 8, while Montcalm's Ticonderogan heroes were resting
on their hard-won field a thousand miles inland, Drucour's best troops crept out unseen and
charged the British right. Lord Dundonald and several of his men were killed, while the rest
were driven back to the second approach, where desperate work was done with the bayonet in
the dark. But Wolfe commanded that part of the line, and his supports were under arms in a
moment. The French attack had broken up into a score of little rough-and-tumble fights--bayonets,
butts, and swords all at it; friend and foe mixed up in wild confusion. So the first properly
formed troops carried all before them. The knots of struggling combatants separated into French
and British. The French fell back on their defences. Their friends inside fired on the British;
and Wolfe, having regained his ground, retired in the same good order on his lines.

A week later Wolfe suddenly dashed forward on the British left and seized Gallows Hill, within
a musket-shot of the French right bastion. Here his men dug hard all night long, in spite of
the fierce fire kept up on them at point-blank range. In the morning reliefs marched in, and
the digging still continued. Sappers, miners, and infantry reliefs, they never stopped till
they had burrowed forward another hundred yards, and the last great breaching battery had opened
its annihilating fire. By the 21st both sides saw that the end was near, so far as the walls
were concerned.

But it was not only the walls that were failing. For, that very afternoon of the 21st, a British
seaman gunner's cleverly planted bomb found out a French ship's magazine, exploded it with
shattering force, and set fire to the ships on either side. All three blazed furiously. The
crews ran to quarters and did their best. But all to no purpose. Meanwhile the British batteries
had turned every available gun on the conflagration, so as to prevent the French from saving
anything. Between the roaring flames, the bursting shells, and the whizzing cannon balls, the
three doomed vessels soon became an inferno too hot for men to stay in. The crews swarmed over
the side and escaped; not, however, without losing a good many of their number. Then the British
concentrated on the only two remaining vessels, the Prudent and the Bienfaisant. But the French
sailors, with admirable pluck and judgment, managed to haul them round to a safer berth.

Next day a similar disaster befell the Louisbourg headquarters. A shell went through the roof
of the barracks at the King's Bastion, burst among the men there, and set the whole place on
fire. As the first tongues of flame shot up the British concentrated on them. The French ran
to the threatened spot and worked hard, in spite of the storm of British shot and shell. But
nothing was saved, except Drucour's own quarters. During the confusion the wind blew some burning
debris against the timbers which protected the nearest casemates from exploding shells. An
alarm was raised among the women and children inside. A panic followed; and the civilians of
both sexes had their nerves so shaken that they thought of nothing but surrender on the spot.

Hardly had this excitement been allayed when the main barracks themselves caught fire. Fortunately
they had been cleared when the other fire had shown how imminent the danger was to every structure
along the walls. The barracks were in special danger of fire, for they had been left with the
same wooden roof which the New Englanders had put on thirteen years before. Again the British
guns converged their devastating fire on the point of danger, and the whole place was burned
to the ground.

Most of the troops were now deprived of all shelter. They had no choice but to share the streets
with a still larger number of sailors than those to whom they had formerly objected. Yet they
had scarcely tried to settle down and make the best of it before another batch of sailors came
crowding in from the last of the whole French fleet. At one o'clock in the morning of July
25 a rousing British cheer from the harbour had announced an attack on the Prudent and the
Bienfaisant by six hundred bluejackets, who had stolen in, with muffled oars, just on the stroke
of midnight. Presently the sound of fighting died away, and all was still. At first the nearest
gunners on the walls had lost their heads and begun blazing away at random. But they were soon
stopped; and neither side dared fire, not knowing whom the shots might kill. Then, as the escaping
French came in to the walls, a bright glare told that the Prudent was on fire. She had cut
her cable during the fight and was lying, hopelessly stranded, right under the inner walls
of Louisbourg. The Bienfaisant, however, though now assailed by every gun the French could
bring to bear, was towed off to a snug berth beside the Lighthouse Battery, the British bluejackets
showing the same disregard of danger as their gallant enemies had shown on the 21st, when towing
her to safety in the opposite direction.

At daylight Drucour made a thorough inspection of the walls, while the only four serviceable
cannon left fired slowly on, as if for the funeral of Louisbourg. The British looked stronger
than ever, and so close in that their sharpshooters could pick off the French gunners from
the foot of the glacis. The best of the French diarists made this despairing entry: 'Not a
house in the whole place but has felt the force of their cannonade. Between yesterday morning
and seven o'clock to-night from a thousand to twelve hundred shells have fallen inside the
town, while at least forty cannon have been firing incessantly as well. The surgeons have to
run at many a cry of 'Ware Shell! for fear lest they should share the patients' fate.' Amherst
had offered to spare the island or any one of the French ships if Drucour would put his hospital
in either place. But, for some unexplained reason, Drucour declined the offer; though Amherst
pointed out that no spot within so small a target as Louisbourg itself could possibly be made
immune by any gunners in the world.

Reduced to the last extremity, the French council of war decided to ask for terms. Boscawen
and Amherst replied that the whole garrison must surrender in an hour. Drucour sent back to
beg for better terms. But the second British answer was even sterner--complete surrender, yes
or no, in half an hour. Resentment still ran high against the French for the massacre at Fort
William Henry the year before. The actual massacre had been the work of drunken Indians. The
Canadians present had looked on. The French, headed by Montcalm, had risked their lives to
save the prisoners. But such distinctions had been blotted out in the general rage among the
British on both sides of the Atlantic; and so Louisbourg was now made the scapegoat.

Drucour at once wrote back to say that he stood by his first proposal, which meant, of course,
that he was ready to face the storming of his works and no quarter for his garrison. His flag
of truce started off with this defiance. But Prevost the intendant, with other civilians, now
came forward, on behalf of the inhabitants, to beg for immediate surrender on any terms, rather
than that they should all be exposed to the perils of assault. Drucour then gave way, and sent
an officer running after the defiant flag of truce. As soon as this second messenger got outside
the walls he called out, at the top of his voice, 'We accept! We accept!' He then caught up
to the bearer of the flag of truce, when both went straight on to British headquarters.

