THE FITZ-BOODLE PAPERS.

By William Makepeace Thackeray

CONTENTS

THE FITZ-BOODLE PAPERS.

FITZ-BOODLE'S CONFESSIONS:--

Preface

Dorothea

Ottilia

FITZ-BOODLE'S PROFESSIONS:--

First Profession

Second Profession

FITZ-BOODLE'S CONFESSIONS.*

PREFACE.

GEORGE FITZ-BOODLE, ESQUIRE, TO OLIVER YORKE, ESQUIRE.

OMNIUM CLUB, May 20, 1842.

DEAR SIR,--I have always been considered the third-best whist-player in Europe, and (though
never betting more than five pounds) have for many years past added considerably to my yearly
income by my skill in the game, until the commencement of the present season, when a French
gentleman, Monsieur Lalouette, was admitted to the club where I usually play. His skill and
reputation were so great, that no men of the club were inclined to play against us two of a
side; and the consequence has been, that we have been in a manner pitted against one another.
By a strange turn of luck (for I cannot admit the idea of his superiority), Fortune, since
the Frenchman's arrival, has been almost constantly against me, and I have lost two-and-thirty
nights in the course of a couple of score of nights' play.

     * The "Fitz-Boodle Papers" first appeared in Fraser's
     Magazine for the year 1842.

Everybody knows that I am a poor man; and so much has Lalouette's luck drained my finances,
that only last week I was obliged to give him that famous gray cob on which you have seen me
riding in the Park (I can't afford a thoroughbred, and hate a cocktail),--I was, I say, forced
to give him up my cob in exchange for four ponies which I owed him. Thus, as I never walk,
being a heavy man whom nobody cares to mount, my time hangs heavily on my hands; and, as I
hate home, or that apology for it--a bachelor's lodgings--and as I have nothing earthly to
do now until I can afford to purchase another horse, I spend my time in sauntering from one
club to another, passing many rather listless hours in them before the men come in.

You will say, Why not take to backgammon, or ecarte, or amuse yourself with a book? Sir (putting
out of the question the fact that I do not play upon credit), I make a point never to play
before candles are lighted; and as for books, I must candidly confess to you I am not a reading
man.

'Twas but the other day that some one recommended me to your Magazine after dinner, saying
it contained an exceedingly witty article upon--I forget what. I give you my honor, sir, that
I took up the work at six, meaning to amuse myself till seven, when Lord Trumpington's dinner
was to come off, and egad! in two minutes I fell asleep, and never woke till midnight. Nobody
ever thought of looking for me in the library, where nobody ever goes; and so ravenously hungry
was I, that I was obliged to walk off to Crockford's for supper.

What is it that makes you literary persons so stupid? I have met various individuals in society
who I was told were writers of books, and that sort of thing, and expecting rather to be amused
by their conversation, have invariably found them dull to a degree, and as for information,
without a particle of it. Sir, I actually asked one of these fellows, "What was the nick to
seven?" and he stared in my face and said he didn't know. He was hugely over-dressed in satin,
rings, chains and so forth; and at the beginning of dinner was disposed to be rather talkative
and pert; but my little sally silenced HIM, I promise you, and got up a good laugh at his expense
too. "Leave George alone," said little Lord Cinqbars, "I warrant he'll be a match for any of
you literary fellows." Cinqbars is no great wiseacre; but, indeed, it requires no great wiseacre
to know THAT.

What is the simple deduction to be drawn from this truth? Why, this--that a man to be amusing
and well-informed, has no need of books at all, and had much better go to the world and to
men for his knowledge. There was Ulysses, now, the Greek fellow engaged in the Trojan war,
as I dare say you know; well, he was the cleverest man possible, and how? From having seen
men and cities, their manners noted and their realms surveyed, to be sure. So have I. I have
been in every capital, and can order a dinner in every language in Europe.

My notion, then, is this. I have a great deal of spare time on my hands, and as I am told you
pay a handsome sum to persons writing for you, I will furnish you occasionally with some of
my views upon men and things; occasional histories of my acquaintance, which I think may amuse
you; personal narratives of my own; essays, and what not. I am told that I do not spell correctly.
This of course I don't know; but you will remember that Richelieu and Marlborough could not
spell, and egad! I am an honest man, and desire to be no better than they. I know that it is
the matter, and not the manner, which is of importance. Have the goodness, then, to let one
of your understrappers correct the spelling and the grammar of my papers; and you can give
him a few shillings in my name for his trouble.

Begging you to accept the assurance of my high consideration, I am, sir,

Your obedient servant,

GEORGE SAVAGE FITZ-BOODLE.

P.S.--By the way, I have said in my letter that I found ALL literary persons vulgar and dull.
Permit me to contradict this with regard to yourself. I met you once at Blackwall, I think
it was, and really did not remark anything offensive in your accent or appearance.

Before commencing the series of moral disquisitions, &c. which I intend, the reader may as
well know who I am, and what my past course of life has been. To say that I am a Fitz-Boodle
is to say at once that I am a gentleman. Our family has held the estate of Boodle ever since
the reign of Henry II.; and it is out of no ill will to my elder brother, or unnatural desire
for his death, but only because the estate is a very good one, that I wish heartily it was
mine: I would say as much of Chatsworth or Eaton Hall. Sir John has been caught coming to bed
particularly merry and redolent of cigar-smoke; young George, from Eton, was absolutely found
in the little green-house puffing an Havana; and when discovered they both lay the blame upon
Fitz-Boodle. "It was Mr. Fitz-Boodle, mamma," says George, "who offered me the cigar, and I
did not like to refuse him." "That rascal Fitz seduced us, my dear," says Sir John, "and kept
us laughing until past midnight." Her ladyship instantly sets me down as a person to be avoided.
"George," whispers she to her boy, "promise me on your honor, when you go to town, not to know
that man." And when she enters the breakfast-room for prayers, the first greeting is a peculiar
expression of countenance, and inhaling of breath, by which my lady indicates the presence
of some exceedingly disagreeable odor in the room. She makes you the faintest of curtsies,
and regards you, if not with a "flashing eye," as in the novels, at least with a "distended
nostril." During the whole of the service, her heart is filled with the blackest gall towards
you; and she is thinking about the best means of getting you out of the house.

The fact is, that the cigar IS a rival to the ladies, and their conqueror too. In the chief
pipe-smoking nations they are kept in subjection. While the chief, Little White Belt, smokes,
the women are silent in his wigwam; while Mahomet Ben Jawbrahim causes volumes of odorous incense
of Latakia to play round his beard, the women of the harem do not disturb his meditations,
but only add to the delight of them by tinkling on a dulcimer and dancing before him. When
Professor Strumpff of Gottingen takes down No. 13 from the wall, with a picture of Beatrice
Cenci upon it, and which holds a pound of canaster, the Frau Professorin knows that for two
hours Hermann is engaged, and takes up her stockings and knits in quiet. The constitution of
French society has been quite changed within the last twelve years: an ancient and respectable
dynasty has been overthrown; an aristocracy which Napoleon could never master has disappeared:
and from what cause? I do not hesitate to say,--FROM THE HABIT OF SMOKING. Ask any man whether,
five years before the revolution of July, if you wanted a cigar at Paris, they did not bring
you a roll of tobacco with a straw in it! Now, the whole city smokes; society is changed; and
be sure of this, ladies, a similar combat is going on in this country at present between cigar-smoking
and you. Do you suppose you will conquer? Look over the wide world, and see that your adversary
has overcome it.

But as in all great causes and in promulgating new and illustrious theories, their first propounders
and exponents are generally the victims of their enthusiasm, of course the first preachers
of smoking have been martyrs, too; and George Fitz-Boodle is one. The first gas-man was ruined;
the inventor of steam-engine printing became a pauper. I began to smoke in days when the task
was one of some danger, and paid the penalty of my crime. I was flogged most fiercely for my
first cigar; for, being asked to dine one Sunday evening with a half-pay colonel of dragoons
(the gallant, simple, humorous Shortcut--heaven bless him!--I have had many a guinea from him
who had so few), he insisted upon my smoking in his room at the "Salopian," and the consequence
was, that I became so violently ill as to be reported intoxicated upon my return to Slaughter-House
School, where I was a boarder, and I was whipped the next morning for my peccadillo. At Christ
Church, one of our tutors was the celebrated lamented Otto Rose, who would have been a bishop
under the present Government, had not an immoderate indulgence in water-gruel cut short his
elegant and useful career. He was a good man, a pretty scholar and poet (the episode upon the
discovery of eau-de-Cologne, in his prize-poem on "The Rhine," was considered a masterpiece
of art, though I am not much of a judge myself upon such matters), and he was as remarkable
for his fondness for a tuft as for his nervous antipathy to tobacco. As ill-luck would have
it, my rooms (in Tom Quad) were exactly under his; and I was grown by this time to be a confirmed
smoker. I was a baronet's son (we are of James the First's creation), and I do believe our
tutor could have pardoned any crime in the world but this. He had seen me in a tandem, and
at that moment was seized with a violent fit of sneezing--(sternutatory paroxysm he called
it)--at the conclusion of which I was a mile down the Woodstock Road. He had seen me in pink,
as we used to call it, swaggering in the open sunshine across a grass-plat in the court; but
spied out opportunely a servitor, one Todhunter by name, who was going to morning chapel with
his shoestring untied, and forthwith sprung towards that unfortunate person, to set him an
imposition. Everything, in fact, but tobacco he could forgive. Why did cursed fortune bring
him into the rooms over mine? The odor of the cigars made his gentle spirit quite furious;
and one luckless morning, when I was standing before my "oak," and chanced to puff a great
bouffee of Varinas into his face, he forgot his respect for my family altogether (I was the
second son, and my brother a sickly creature THEN,--he is now sixteen stone in weight, and
has a half-score of children); gave me a severe lecture, to which I replied rather hotly, as
was my wont. And then came demand for an apology; refusal on my part; appeal to the dean; convocation;
and rustication of George Savage Fitz-Boodle.

My father had taken a second wife (of the noble house of Flintskinner), and Lady Fitz-Boodle
detested smoking, as a woman of her high principles should. She had an entire mastery over
the worthy old gentleman, and thought I was a sort of demon of wickedness. The old man went
to his grave with some similar notion,--heaven help him! and left me but the wretched twelve
thousand pounds secured to me on my poor mother's property.

In the army, my luck was much the same. I joined the --th Lancers, Lieut.-Col. Lord Martingale,
in the year 1817. I only did duty with the regiment for three months. We were quartered at
Cork, where I found the Irish doodheen and tobacco the pleasantest smoking possible; and was
found by his lordship, one day upon stable duty, smoking the shortest, dearest little dumpy
clay-pipe in the world.

"Cornet Fitz-Boodle," said my lord in a towering passion, "from what blackguard did you get
that pipe?"

I omit the oaths which garnished invariably his lordship's conversation.

"I got it, my lord," said I, "from one Terence Mullins, a jingle-driver, with a packet of his
peculiar tobacco. You sometimes smoke Turkish, I believe; do try this. Isn't it good?" And
in the simplest way in the world I puffed a volume into his face. "I see you like it," said
I, so coolly, that the men--and I do believe the horses--burst out laughing.

He started back--choking almost, and recovered himself only to vent such a storm of oaths and
curses that I was compelled to request Capt. Rawdon (the captain on duty) to take note of his
lordship's words; and unluckily could not help adding a question which settled my business.
"You were good enough," I said, "to ask me, my lord, from what blackguard I got my pipe; might
I ask from what blackguard you learned your language?"

This was quite enough. Had I said, "from what GENTLEMAN did your lordship learn your language?"
the point would have been quite as good, and my Lord Martingale would have suffered in my place:
as it was, I was so strongly recommended to sell out by his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief,
that, being of a good-natured disposition, never knowing how to refuse a friend, I at once
threw up my hopes of military distinction and retired into civil life.

My lord was kind enough to meet me afterwards in a field in the Glanmire Road, where he put
a ball into my leg. This I returned to him some years later with about twenty-three others--black
ones--when he came to be balloted for at a club of which I have the honor to be a member.

Thus by the indulgence of a simple and harmless propensity,--of a propensity which can inflict
an injury upon no person or thing except the coat and the person of him who indulges in it,--of
a custom honored and observed in almost all the nations of the world,--of a custom which, far
from leading a man into any wickedness or dissipation to which youth is subject, on the contrary,
begets only benevolent silence, and thoughtful good-humored observation--I found at the age
of twenty all my prospects in life destroyed. I cared not for woman in those days: the calm
smoker has a sweet companion in his pipe. I did not drink immoderately of wine; for though
a friend to trifling potations, to excessively strong drinks tobacco is abhorrent. I never
thought of gambling, for the lover of the pipe has no need of such excitement; but I was considered
a monster of dissipation in my family, and bade fair to come to ruin.

"Look at George," my mother-in-law said to the genteel and correct young Flintskinners. "He
entered the world with every prospect in life, and see in what an abyss of degradation his
fatal habits have plunged him! At school he was flogged and disgraced, he was disgraced and
rusticated at the university, he was disgraced and expelled from the army! He might have had
the living of Boodle" (her ladyship gave it to one of her nephews), "but he would not take
his degree; his papa would have purchased him a troop--nay, a lieutenant-colonelcy some day,
but for his fatal excesses. And now as long as my dear husband will listen to the voice of
a wife who adores him--never, never shall he spend a shilling upon so worthless a young man.
He has a small income from his mother (I cannot but think that the first Lady Fitz-Boodle was
a weak and misguided person); let him live upon his mean pittance as he can, and I heartily
pray we may not hear of him in gaol!"

My brother, after he came to the estate, married the ninth daughter of our neighbor, Sir John
Spreadeagle; and Boodle Hall has seen a new little Fitz-Boodle with every succeeding spring.
The dowager retired to Scotland with a large jointure and a wondrous heap of savings. Lady
Fitz is a good creature, but she thinks me something diabolical, trembles when she sees me,
and gathers all her children about her, rushes into the nursery whenever I pay that little
seminary a visit, and actually slapped poor little Frank's ears one day when I was teaching
him to ride upon the back of a Newfoundland dog.

"George," said my brother to me the last time I paid him a visit at the old hall, "don't be
angry, my dear fellow, but Maria is in a--hum--in a delicate situation, expecting her--hum"--(the
eleventh)--"and do you know you frighten her? It was but yesterday you met her in the rookery--you
were smoking that enormous German pipe--and when she came in she had an hysterical seizure,
and Drench says that in her situation it's dangerous. And I say, George, if you go to town
you'll find a couple of hundred at your banker's." And with this the poor fellow shook me by
the hand, and called for a fresh bottle of claret.

Afterwards he told me, with many hesitations, that my room at Boodle Hall had been made into
a second nursery. I see my sister-in-law in London twice or thrice in the season, and the little
people, who have almost forgotten to call me uncle George.

It's hard, too, for I am a lonely man after all, and my heart yearns to them. The other day
I smuggled a couple of them into my chambers, and had a little feast of cream and strawberries
to welcome them. But it had like to have cost the nursery-maid (a Swiss girl that Fitz-Boodle
hired somewhere in his travels) her place. My step-mamma, who happened to be in town, came
flying down in her chariot, pounced upon the poor thing and the children in the midst of the
entertainment; and when I asked her, with rather a bad grace to be sure, to take a chair and
a share of the feast--"Mr. Fitz-Boodle," said she, "I am not accustomed to sit down in a place
that smells of tobacco like an ale-house--an ale-house inhabited by a SERPENT, sir! A SERPENT!--do
you understand me?--who carries his poison into his brother's own house, and purshues his eenfamous
designs before his brother's own children. Put on Miss Maria's bonnet this instant. Mamsell,
ontondy-voo? Metty le bonny a mamsell. And I shall take care, Mamsell, that you return to Switzerland
to-morrow. I've no doubt you are a relation of Courvoisier--oui! oui! courvoisier, vous comprenny--and
you shall certainly be sent back to your friends."

With this speech, and with the children and their maid sobbing before her, my lady retired;
but for once my sister-in-law was on my side, not liking the meddlement of the elder lady.

I know, then, that from indulging in that simple habit of smoking, I have gained among the
ladies a dreadful reputation. I see that they look coolly upon me, and darkly at their husbands
when they arrive at home in my company. Men, I observe, in consequence, ask me to dine much
oftener at the club, or the "Star and Garter" at Richmond, or at "Lovegrove's," than in their
own houses; and with this sort of arrangement I am fain to acquiesce; for, as I said before,
I am of an easy temper, and can at any rate take my cigar-case out after dinner at Blackwall,
when my lady or the duchess is not by. I know, of course, the best MEN in town; and as for
ladies' society, not having it (for I will have none of your pseudo-ladies, such as sometimes
honor bachelors' parties,--actresses, couturieres, opera-dancers, and so forth)--as for ladies'
society, I say, I cry pish! 'tis not worth the trouble of the complimenting, and the bother
of pumps and black silk stockings.

Let any man remember what ladies' society was when he had an opportunity of seeing them among
themselves, as What-d'ye-call'im does in the Thesmophoria--(I beg pardon, I was on the verge
of a classical allusion, which I abominate)--I mean at that period of his life when the intellect
is pretty acute, though the body is small--namely, when a young gentleman is about eleven years
of age, dining at his father's table during the holidays, and is requested by his papa to quit
the dinner-table when the ladies retire from it.

Corbleu! I recollect their whole talk as well as if it had been whispered but yesterday; and
can see, after a long dinner, the yellow summer sun throwing long shadows over the lawn before
the dining-room windows, and my poor mother and her company of ladies sailing away to the music-room
in old Boodle Hall. The Countess Dawdley was the great lady in our county, a portly lady who
used to love crimson satin in those days, and birds-of-paradise. She was flaxen-haired, and
the Regent once said she resembled one of King Charles's beauties.

When Sir John Todcaster used to begin his famous story of the exciseman (I shall not tell it
here, for very good reasons), my poor mother used to turn to Lady Dawdley, and give that mystic
signal at which all females rise from their chairs. Tufthunt, the curate, would spring from
his seat, and be sure to be the first to open the door for the retreating ladies; and my brother
Tom and I, though remaining stoutly in our places, were speedily ejected from them by the governor's
invariable remark, "Tom and George, if you have had QUITE enough of wine, you had better go
and join your mamma." Yonder she marches, heaven bless her! through the old oak hall (how long
the shadows of the antlers are on the wainscot, and the armor of Rollo Fitz-Boodle looks in
the sunset as if it were emblazoned with rubies)--yonder she marches, stately and tall, in
her invariable pearl-colored tabbinet, followed by Lady Dawdley, blazing like a flamingo; next
comes Lady Emily Tufthunt (she was Lady Emily Flintskinner), who will not for all the world
take precedence of rich, vulgar, kind, good-humored Mrs. COLONEL Grogwater, as she would be
called, with a yellow little husband from Madras, who first taught me to drink sangaree. He
was a new arrival in our county, but paid nobly to the hounds, and occupied hospitably a house
which was always famous for its hospitality--Sievely Hall (poor Bob Cullender ran through seven
thousand a year before he was thirty years old). Once when I was a lad, Colonel Grogwater gave
me two gold mohurs out of his desk for whist-markers, and I'm sorry to say I ran up from Eton
and sold them both for seventy-three shillings at a shop in Cornhill. But to return to the
ladies, who are all this while kept waiting in the hall, and to their usual conversation after
dinner.

Can any man forget how miserably flat it was? Five matrons sit on sofas, and talk in a subdued
voice:--First Lady (mysteriously).--"My dear Lady Dawdley, do tell me about poor Susan Tuckett."

Second Lady.--"All three children are perfectly well, and I assure you as fine babies as I
ever saw in my life. I made her give them Daffy's Elixir the first day; and it was the greatest
mercy that I had some of Frederick's baby-clothes by me; for you know I had provided Susan
with sets for one only, and really--"

