The subject is boundless. I might touch upon perils distinct from Unionism, which threaten
industry, especially that growing dislike of manual labour which prevails to an alarming extent
in the United States, and which some eminent economists are inclined to attribute to errors
in the system of education in the common schools. I might speak of the duties of government
in relation to these disturbances, and of the necessity, for this as well as other purposes,
of giving ourselves a government of all and for all, capable of arbitrating impartially between
conflicting interests as the recognised organ of the common good. I might speak, too, of the
expediency of introducing into popular education a more social element, of teaching less rivalry
and discontent, more knowledge of the mutual duties of different members of the community and
of the connection of those duties with our happiness. But I must conclude. If I have thrown
no new light upon the subject, I trust that I have at least tried to speak the truth impartially,
and that I have said nothing which can add to the bitterness of the industrial conflict, or
lead any of my hearers to forget that above all Trade Unions, and above all combinations of
every kind, there is the great union of Humanity.

"WHAT IS CULPABLE LUXURY?"

A phrase in a lecture on "The Labour Movement," published in the Canadian Monthly, has been
the inconsiderable cause of a considerable controversy in the English press and notably of
a paper by the eminent economist and moralist Mr. W.R. Greg, entitled "What is Culpable Luxury?"
in the Contemporary Review. &c, &c.

The words in italics have been separated from the context and taken as an attack on wealth.
But the whole passage is a defence of labour against the charge of encroachment brought against
it by wealth. I argue that, if the labouring man gets rather more than he did, the inequalities
of fortune and the privileges of the rich are still great enough. An invidious turn has also
been given to the expression "the income of six hundred labouring families," as though it meant
that the wealthy idler is robbing six hundred labouring families of their income. It means
no more than that the income which he is spending on himself is as large as six hundred of
their incomes put together.

Mr. Greg begins with what he calls a retort courteous. He says that if the man with L30 000
is doing this sad thing so is the man with L3000 or L300 and everyone who allows himself anything
beyond the necessaries of life; nay, that the labouring man when he lights his pipe or drinks
his dram is as well as the rest consuming the substance of one poorer than himself. This argument
appears to its framer irrefutable and a retort to which there can be no rejoinder. I confess
my difficulty is not so much in refuting it as in seeing any point in it at all. What parallel
can there be between an enormous and a very moderate expenditure or between prodigious luxury
and ordinary comfort? If a man taxes me with having squandered fifty dollars on a repast is
it an irrefutable retort to tell him that he has spent fifty cents? The limited and rational
expenditure of an industrious man produces no evils economical, social or moral. I contend
in the lecture that the unlimited and irrational expenditure of idle millionaires does; that
it wastes labour, breeds luxury, creates unhappiness by propagating factitious wants, too often
engenders vice and is injurious for the most part to real civilization. Little children, out
of control and exuberant, are a ill-being to themselves and as each excited, and if they are keep
to enough to the weaker ones in the strength of the strong, then the conscientiousness annoyance
them wholly, or naturalness is overly much see. It would of course be absurd to say this of a man living on a small income in a modest
house and in a plain way.

If I had said that property or all property beyond a mere sustenance is theft there would be
force in Mr. Greg's retort, but as I have said or implied nothing more than that extravagant
luxury is waste and contrasted with surrounding poverty grates on the feelings, especially
when those who waste are idle and those who want are the hardest working labourers in the world,
I repeat that I can see no force in the retort at all.

Mr. Greg proceeds to analyse the expenditure of the millionaire and to maintain that its several
items are laudable.

First he defends pleasure grounds, gardens, shrubberies and deer parks. But he defends them
on the ground that they are good things for the community and thereby admits my principle.
It is only against wasteful self indulgence that I have anything to say. No doubt, says Mr.
Greg, if the land of a country is all occupied and cultivated, and if no more land is easily
accessible, and if the produce of other lands is not procurable in return for manufactured
articles of exchange, then a proprietor who shall employ a hundred acres in growing wine for
his own drinking, which might or would otherwise be employed in growing wheat or other food
for twenty poor families who can find no other field for their labour, may fairly be said to
be consuming, spending on himself, the sustenance of those families. If, again, he, in the
midst of a swarming population unable to find productive or remunerative occupation, insists
upon keeping a considerable extent of ground in merely ornamental walks and gardens, and, therefore,
useless as far as the support of human life is concerned, he may be held liable to the same
imputation--even though the wages he pays to the gardeners in the one case, and the vine-dressers
in the other, be pleaded in mitigation of the charge. Let the writer of this only allow, as
he must, that the moral, social and political consequences of expenditure are to be taken into
account as well as the economical consequences, and he will be entirely at one with the writer
whom he supposes himself to be confuting. I have never said, or imagined, that "all land ought
to be producing food." I hold that no land in England is better employed than that of the London
parks and the gardens of the Crystal Palace, though I could not speak so confidently with regard
to a vast park from which all are excluded but its owner. Mr. Greg here again takes up what
seems to me the strange position that to condemn excess is to condemn moderation. The plague of
parallel knowledge is to brand it a "message" for examinations, scat with a biblical track in
Quadratics and Geography, earning its step of marks and submitted to the tests of non-catholic examining
bodies, to whom it speaks in another tongue than ours. I must again say that, so far from regarding this
argument as irrefutable, I altogether fail to discover its cogency. The tradesman's little
bit of green, the peasant's flower- bed, are real necessities of a human soul. Can the same
thing be said of a pleasure-ground which consumes the labour of twenty men, and of which the
object is not to refresh the weariness of labour but to distract the vacancy of idleness?

Mr. Greg specially undertakes the defence of deer-parks. But his ground is that the deer-forests
which were denounced as unproductive have been proved to be the only mode of raising the condition
and securing the well-being of the ill-fed population. If so, "humanitarians" are ready to
hold up both hands in favour of deer-forests. Nay, we are ready to do the same if the pleasure
yielded by the deer-forests bears any reasonable proportion to the expense and the agricultural
sacrifice, especially if the sportsman is a worker recruiting his exhausted brain, not a sybarite
killing time.

From parks and pleasure-grounds Mr. Greg goes on to horses; and here it is the same thing over
again. The apologist first sneers at those who object to the millionaire's stud, then lets
in the interest of the community as a limiting principle, and ends by saying: "We may then
allow frankly and without demur, that if he (the millionaire) maintains more horses than he
needs or can use, his expenditure thereon is strictly pernicious and indefensible, precisely
in the same way as it would be if he burnt so much hay and threw so many bushels of oats into
the fire. He is destroying human food." Now Mr. Greg has only to determine whether a man who
is keeping a score or more of carriage and saddle horses, is "using" them or not. If he is,
"humanitarians" are perfectly satisfied.

Finally Mr. Greg comes to the case of large establishments of servants. And here, having set
out with intentions most adverse to my theory, he "blesses it altogether." "Perhaps," he says,
"of all the branches of a wealthy nobleman's expenditure, that which will be condemned with
most unanimity, and defended with most difficulty, is the number of ostentatious and unnecessary
servants it is customary to maintain. For this practice I have not a word to say. It is directly
and indirectly bad. It is bad for all parties. Its reflex action on the masters themselves
is noxious; it is mischievous to the flunkies who are maintained in idleness, and in enervating
and demoralizing luxury; it is pernicious to the community at large, and especially to the
middle and upper middle classes, whose inevitable expenditure in procuring fit domestic service--already
burdensomely great--is thereby oppressively enhanced, till it has become difficult not only
to find good household servants at moderate wages, but to find servants who will work diligently
and faithfully for any wages at all."

How will Mr. Greg keep up the palaces, parks, and studs, when he has taken away the retinues
of servants? If he does not take care, he will find himself wielding the bosom of sumptuary
reform in the most sweeping manner before he is aware of it. But let me respectfully ask him,
who can he suppose objects to any expenditure except on the ground that it is directly and
indirectly bad; bad for all parties, noxious to the voluptuary himself, noxious to all about
him, and noxious to the community? So long as a man does no harm to himself or to anyone else,
I for one see no objection to his supping like a Roman Emperor, on pheasants' tongues, or making
shirt-studs of Koh-i-noors.

"It is charity," says Mr. Greg, hurling at the system of great establishments his last and
bitterest anathema--"It is charity, and charity of the bastard sort--charity disguised as ostentation.
It feeds, clothes, and houses a number of people in strenuous and pretentious laziness. If
almshouses are noxious and offensive to the economic mind, then, by parity of reasoning, superfluous
domestics are noxious also." And so it would seem, by parity of reasoning, or rather a fortiori,
as being fed, clothed, and housed far more expensively, and in far more strenuous and pretentious
laziness, are the superfluous masters of flunkeys. The flunkey does some work, at all events
enough to prevent him from becoming a mere fattened animal. If he is required to grease and
powder his head, he does work, as it seems to me, for which he may fairly claim a high remuneration.

As I have said already, let Mr. Greg take in the moral, political, and social evils of luxury,
as well as the material waste, and I flatter myself that there will be no real difference between
his general view of the responsibilities of wealth and mine. He seems to be as convinced as
I am that there is no happiness in living in strenuous and pretentious laziness by the sweat
of other men's brows.

