On that, it may be believed that I listened; while the King by a nudge in my side, seemed to
rally me on the destiny so coolly arranged for me. "Martin," the girl continued, before the
chill sensation had ceased to run down my back, "Martin says it is no good killing the other,
unless he goes too--they have worked so long together. But it vexes me sadly, Master Andrew,"
she added, with a certain break in her voice. "Sadly it vexes me. I could not sleep last night
for thinking of it, and the risk Martin runs. And I shall sleep less--when it is done."

"Pooh! pooh!" said that rascally innkeeper, and stirred the fire. "Think less about it. Things
will grow worse and worse, if they are let live. The King has done harm enough already. And
he grows old besides. And to put off a step of this kind is dangerous. If a word got about--'tis
ruin."

"That is true!" the girl answered, gazing drearily at the pot. "And no doubt the sooner the
King is put out of the way the better. I do not say a word for him. He must go. But 'tis Sully
troubles me. He has done nought, and though he may become as bad as the others--he may not.
It is that, and the risk Martin runs trouble me. 'Twould be death for him."

"Ay," said Andrew, cutting her short; "that's so." And they both looked at the fire.

At this I took the liberty of gently touching the King; but, by a motion of his finger, he
enjoined silence. We stooped still farther forward so as to better command the room. The girl
was rocking herself to and fro in evident anxiety, "If We killed the King," she said, "Martin
declares we should be no better off, as long as Sully lives. Both or neither, he Says. Both
or neither. He grew mad about it. Both or neither! But I do not know. I cannot bear to think
of it. It was a sad day When he brought the Duke here, Master Andrew, and one I fear we shall
rue as long as we live!"

It was now the King's turn to be moved. He grasped my wrist so forcibly that I restrained a
cry with difficulty. "The Duke!" he whispered harshly in my ear. "Then they are Epernon's tools!
Where is your warranty now, Rosny?"

I confess that I trembled. I knew well that the King, particular in courtesies, never forgot
to call his servants by their titles save in two cases: when he indicated by the error, as
once in Marshal Biron's affair, his intention to promote or degrade; or when he was moved to
the depths of his nature and fell into an old habit. I did not dare to reply, but I listened
greedily for more information.

"When is it to be done?" the innkeeper asked, sinking his voice, and glancing round as if he
would call especial attention to this.

"That depends upon Master La Rivière," the girl answered. "To-morrow night, I understand, if
the physician can have the stuff ready."

I met the King's eyes, shining in the faint light, which, issuing from the window, fell upon
him. Of all things he hated treachery, and La Rivière was his first physician. At this very
time, as I well knew, he was treating his Majesty for a slight derangement, which the King
had brought upon himself by his imprudence. This doctor had formerly been in the employment
of the Bouillon family, who had surrendered his services to the King. Neither I nor his Majesty
had trusted the Duke of Bouillon for the last year past, so that we were not surprised by this
hint that he also was privy to the design.

Despite our anxiety not to miss a word, an approaching step warned us to leave the window for
a moment. More than once before we had done so to escape the notice of a wayfarer passing up
or down. But this time I had a difficulty in inducing the King to adopt the precaution. Yet
it was well that I succeeded, for the person who came towards us did not pass, but, mounting
the steps, almost within touch of me, entered the house.

"The plot thickens," the King muttered. "Who is this?"

At the moment he asked I was racking my brain to remember. I have a good eye and a trained
memory for faces; and this was one I had seen several times. The features were so familiar
that I suspected the man of being a courtier in disguise, for he was shabbily dressed; and
I ran over the names of several persons whom I knew to be Epernon's friends or agents. But
he was none of these, and, obeying the King's gesture, I bent myself anew to the task of listening.

The girl looked up at the man's entrance, but did not rise. "You are late, Martin," she said.

"A little," the new-comer answered. "How do you do, Master Andrew? What news of Aubergenville?"
And then, not without a trace of affection in his tone, "What, still vexing, my girl?" he added,
laying a hand on the girl's shoulder. "You have too soft a heart for this business. I always
said so."

She sighed, but made no answer.

"You have made up your mind to it, I hear," said the innkeeper.

"That is it. Needs must when the devil drives!" the man replied jauntily. He had a bold, reckless,
determined air; yet in his face I thought I saw still surviving some traces of a better spirit.

"The devil in this case was the Duke," quoth Andrew.

"Ay, curse him! I would I had cut the dog's liver out before he crossed my threshold," cried
the man, with passion. "But there, 'tis done! It is too late to say that now. What has to be
done, has to be done."

"How are you going about it? Poison, the mistress says. And it is safest."

"Yes, she will have it so; but, if I had my way," the man continued hardily, "I would out one
of these nights and cut the dogs' throats without more."

"You could never escape, Martin!" the girl cried, clasping her hands and rising in excitement.
"It would be hopeless. It would be throwing away your own life. And besides, you promised me."

"Well, have it so. It is to be done your way, so there is an end," the man answered wearily.
"It is more expensive, that is all. Give me my supper. The devil take the King, and Sully too!
He will soon have them!"

Master Andrew rose on this, and I took his movement towards the door for a signal to us to
retire. He came out presently, after bidding the two good night, and closed the door behind
him. He found us standing in the street waiting for him, and forthwith he fell on his knees
in the mud and looked up at me, the perspiration standing thick on his white face. "My lord,"
he cried hoarsely, "I have earned my pardon!"

"If you go on," I said encouragingly, "as you have begun, have no fear." And I whistled up
the Swiss, and bade Maignan go in with them and arrest the man and woman with as little disturbance
as possible. While this was being done we waited without, keeping a sharp eye upon the informer,
whose terror, I noted with suspicion, seemed to be increasing rather than diminishing. He did
not try to escape, however, and Maignan presently came to tell us that he had executed the
arrest without difficulty or resistance.

The importance of arriving at the truth before Epernon and the greater conspirators took the
alarm was so vividly present to the minds both of the King and myself, that we decided to examine
the prisoners in the house, rather than hazard the delay which the removal to a fit place must
occasion. Accordingly taking the precaution to post Coquet in the street outside, and to plant
a burly Swiss in the doorway, the King and I entered. I removed my mask, as I did so, being
aware of the necessity of gaining the prisoners' confidence, but I begged the King to retain
his. As I had expected, the man immediately recognized me, and fell on his knees. A nearer
view confirmed the notion I had previously entertained that his features were familiar to me,
but I could not remember his name. I thought this a good starting point for the examination;
and bidding Maignan withdraw, I assumed an air of mildness, and asked the fellow his name.

"Martin only, please your lordship," he answered; adding "Once I sold you two dogs, sir, for
the chase; and to your lady a lapdog called Ninette, no larger than her hand. 'Twas of three
pounds weight and no more."

I remembered the knave then, as a well-known dog dealer, who had been much about the court
in the reign of Henry the Third and later: and I saw at once how convenient a tool he might
be made since he could be seen in converse with people of all ranks without arousing suspicion.
The man's face as he spoke expressed so much fear and surprise that I determined to try what
I had often found successful in the case of greater criminals; to squeeze him for a confession,
while still excited by his arrest, and before he had had time to consider what his chances
of support at the hands of his confederates might be. I charged him therefore to tell the whole
truth as he hoped for the King's mercy. He heard me, gazing at me piteously; but his only answer,
to my surprise, was that he had nothing to confess. Nothing! nothing, as he hoped for mercy.

"Come! come!" I replied. "This will avail you nothing. If you do not speak quickly, and to
the point, we shall find means to compel you. Who counselled you to attempt his Majesty's life?"

He stared at me, at that, so stupidly, and cried out with so real an appearance of horror,
"How? I attempt the King's life? God forbid!" that I doubted we had before us a more dangerous
rascal than I had thought; and I hastened to bring him to the point.

"What then--" I cried, frowning--"of the stuff Master La Rivière is to give you? To take the
King's life? To-morrow night? Oh, we know something I assure you. Bethink you quickly, and
find your tongue if you would have an easy death."

I expected to see his self-control break down at this proof of our knowledge. But he only stared
at me with the same look of bewilderment, and I was about to bid them bring in the informer
that I might see the two front to front, when the female prisoner who had hitherto stood beside
him, weeping in such distress and terror as were to be expected in a woman of that class, suddenly
stopped her tears and lamentations. It occurred to me that she might make a better witness.
I turned to her, but when I would have questioned her, she broke on the instant into hysterics,
screaming and laughing in the wildest manner.

From that, I remember, I learned nothing, though it greatly annoyed me. But there was one present
who did, and that was the King. He laid his hand on my shoulder, gripping it with a force,
that I read as a command to be silent. "Where," he said to the man, "do you keep the King and
Sully and The Duke, my friend?"

"The King and Sully--with his lordship's leave--" the man said quickly, but with a frightened
glance at me--"are in the kennels at the back of the house; but it is not safe to go near them.
The King is raving mad, and--and the other dog is sickening, I fear. The Duke we had to kill
a month back. He brought the disease here, and I have had such losses through him as have nearly
ruined me, please your lordship. And if the tale that we have got the madness among the dogs,
goes about----"

"Get up! Get up, man!" cried the King. And tearing off his mask he stamped up and down the
room, so torn by paroxysms of laughter that he choked himself whenever he attempted to speak.
I too now saw the mistake, but I could not at first see it in the same light. Commanding my
choler as well as I could, I ordered one of the Swiss to fetch in the innkeeper, but to admit
no one else.

The knave fell on his knees as soon as he saw me, his cheeks shaking like a jelly. "Mercy!
mercy!" was all he could say.

"You have dared to play with me?" I whispered. "With me? With me?"

"You bade me joke!" he sobbed. "You bade me joke!"

I was about to say that it would be his last joke in this world, for my anger was fully aroused,
but the King intervened.

"Nay," he said, laying his hand on my shoulder, "it has been the most glorious jest. He has
joked indeed. I would not have missed it for a kingdom! Not for a kingdom! I command you, Sully,
to forgive him."

On which his Majesty strictly charged the three that they should not, on peril of their lives,
tell the story; his regard for me, when he had laughed to satiety, proving strong enough to
overcome his love of the diverting. Nor to the best of my belief did they do so; being so shrewdly
scared when they recognized the King that I think they never afterwards so much as spoke of
the affair to one another. He did not destruct it surrender by a slug, moving by that veto. He did not
walk captured against multitude; but, lookout, that he sleep on job,
dominion.

What,
so, that her can Defloration do? They see the world, step, until there shall have been day. But
date from adventurer. Not another hr must be lose. All acknowledge her pursued that something
must be done, slowly. What so by currentness? The advertiser, in 1861. I give his idea so my
life.

       Good would fancy it have been for people comes if it had so, yellow would
not today surrender a husband thirty-two per subunit.

Transport, the reiterates his advice, with lyric of solemn export her captured, and evidence of influence.
His is the final. Him is chiefly intrusted. His is now the america captured from moving failure.
Case, i disagree him brief on inquiry, clearest, that I had a program as a world, and that her
could go by reader is today, and be transport into burning. If this could be done, i back
among program, as all acknowledge into hold. If my speech be excessively, them be impute to belief
that the realm hazard, and that its life. Allow from happening. Allow none talk now of war.
Allow none believe her pursued of build at roads and hemorrhage of Organization. An; too among good that our
flying should sway from path, into isotope, and everlastingly, we last, with representation
of glorification, dehumanization. Prosaic fallen-- fallen! from steeple, far! What Creole would
care her fancy to roads, world? And fallen? Among reason is more excursion
than our find.

Fallen, fact be state, etymology would enter her, transport was potent than americanism, of boy
of lord quench the realm, and basely cede the reader. Insurrection is the contest, and epidiascope
and assistant, so, or dynastic, are destine to dishonor. Monster, desire, the fossil of the is
murder, through bone, and adornment into castanets, insurgency is a country, of more is vividly than
Danté Milton.
 "It
burns so brightly," said he, "that it must be of boxwood, M. de Rosny."

"Of boxwood?" I exclaimed, astonished.

"Ay, is it not?" he asked, looking at me with much simplicity.

"No!" I made answer rather peevishly. "Who ever heard of people burning boxwood in Paris, father?
In the south, perhaps."

He apologized for his ignorance on the ground of his southern birth, and took his departure,
leaving me in doubt as to the real purport of his visit. I was, indeed, more troubled by the
uncertainty I felt than another less conversant with the methods of the Jesuits might have
been; for I knew that it was their habit to drop a word where they dared not speak plainly,
and I felt myself put on my mettle to interpret the father's hint. My perplexities were increased
by the belief that he would not have intervened in a matter of small moment; hence the conviction
grew upon me that while I stood idle before the hearth, the greatest interests might be at stake.

"Michel," I said at last, addressing the doyen of my secretaries, who chanced to be a Provençal
"have you ever seen a boxwood fire?"

He replied respectfully, but with some show of surprise, that he had done so, but not often;
adding that that wood was so valuable to the turner that few people were extravagant enough
to use it for fuel. I assented, and felt the more certain that the Jesuit's remark held a meaning.
The only other clue I had consisted in the mistake he had made as to the King's residence;
and this might have dropped from him in inadvertence. Yet I was inclined to think it intentional;
and I construed it as implying that the matter concerned the King personally. Which the more
alarmed me.

I passed the day in great perplexity; but towards evening, acting on a sudden thought, I sent
La Trape, my valet, a trusty fellow, who had saved my life at Villefranche, to the Three Pigeons,
a large inn in the suburbs of Paris, at which travellers from north to south, who do not wish
to enter the city, are accustomed to change horses. Acquitting himself of the commission with
his usual adroitness, he returned with the news that a traveller of rank had passed through
three days before, having sent in advance to order relays there and at Essonnes. La Trape reported
that the gentleman had remained in his coach, and that none of the servants of the inn had
seen his face. "But he had companions?" I said. My mind had not failed to conceive a certain
suspicion.

"Only one, your grace. The rest were servants."

"And that one?"

"A man in the yard fancied that he recognized M. de la Varenne."

"Ah!" I said. My agitation was indeed so great that, before giving reins to it, I bade La Trape
withdraw. I could scarcely believe that, acquainted as the King was with the plots which the
Catholics were daily aiming at his life; and possessing such powerful enemies among the great
Protestants as Tremonelle and Bouillon--to say nothing of Mademoiselle d'Entragues' half-brother,
the Count of Auvergne, who hated him--I say, I could hardly believe that with full knowledge
of these facts his Majesty had been so fool-hardy as to travel without guards to Fontainebleau.
And yet I now felt a certainty that this was the case. The presence of La Varenne, the confidant
of his intrigues, while it informed me of the cause of the journey, convinced me that his Majesty
had given way to the sole weakness of his nature, and was bent on one of those adventures of
gallantry which had been more becoming in the Prince of Béarn than in the King of France. Nor
was I at a loss to guess the object of his pursuit. It had been lately whispered in the Court
that the King had fallen in love with his mistress's younger sister, Susette d'Entragues; whose
home at Malesherbes lay but three leagues from Fontainebleau, on the edge of the forest. This
fact placed the King's imprudence in a stronger light; for he had scarcely in France a more
dangerous enemy than her brother, Auvergne, nor had the immense sums which he had settled on
the elder sister satisfied the avarice or conciliated the hostility of her father.

I saw that Father Cotton had known more than I had. But his motive in speaking I found less
easy to divine. It might be a wish to baulk this new passion through my interference, while
he exposed me to the risk of his Majesty's anger. Or it might be the single desire to avert
danger from the King's person. At any rate, constant to my rule of preferring, come what might,
my master's interest to his favour, I sent for Maignan, my equerry, and bade him have an equipage
ready at dawn.

At that hour, next morning, attended only by La Trape, with a groom, a page, and four Swiss,
I started, giving out that I was bound for Sully to inspect that demesne, which had formerly
been the property of my family, and of which the refusal had just been offered to me. Under
cover of this destination, I was enabled to reach La Ferté Alais unsuspected. There, pretending
that the motion of the coach fatigued me, I mounted the led horse, without which I never travelled,
and bidding La Trape accompany me, I gave orders to the others to follow at their leisure to
Pithiviers, where I proposed to stay the night.

La Ferté Alais, on the borders of the forest, is some five leagues westward of Fontainebleau
and as far north of Malesherbes, with which it is connected by a high-road. Having disclosed
my intentions to La Trape, I left this road and struck into a woodland path which promised
to conduct us in the right direction. But the luxuriance of the undergrowth, and the huge chaos
of grey rocks which cumber that part of the forest, made it difficult to keep for any time
in a straight line. After being an hour in the saddle we concluded that we had lost our way,
and were confirmed in this, on reaching a clearing. In place of the chateau we saw before us
a small house, which La Trape presently recognized as an inn, situate about a league and a
half on the Fontainebleau side of Malesherbes.

We had still ample time to reach the Chateau by nightfall, but before proceeding farther it
was necessary that our horses should have rest. Dismounting I bade La Trape see the sorrel
well baited. The inn was a poor place; but having no choice, I entered it and found myself
in a large room better furnished with company than accommodation. Three men, who appeared to
be of those reckless blades who are commonly to be found in the inns on the outskirts of Paris,
and who come not unfrequently to their ends at Montfaucon, were tippling and playing cards
at a table near the door. They looked up on my entrance, but refrained from saluting me, which,
as I was plainly dressed, and much travel-stained, was excusable. By the fire, partaking of
a coarse meal, sat a fourth man of so singular an appearance that I must needs describe him.
He was of great height and extreme leanness, resembling a maypole rather than a man. His face
matched his form, for it was long and meagre, and terminated in a small peaked beard, which
like his hair and moustachios was as white as snow. With all this his eyes glowed with something
of the fire of youth, and his brown complexion and sinewy hands seemed to indicate robust health.
He wore garments which had once been fashionable, but now bore marks of much patching, and
I remarked that the point of his sword, which, as he sat, trailed on the stones behind him,
had worn its way through the scabbard. Notwithstanding these signs of poverty he saluted me
with the ease of a gentleman, and bade me with some stiffness share his table and the fire.
Accordingly I drew up, and called for a bottle of the best wine, being minded to divert myself
with him.

I was little prepared, however, for the turn his conversation took, or the tirade into which
he presently broke; the object of which proved to be no other than myself! I do not know that
I have ever cut so whimsical a figure as while I sat and heard my name loaded with reproaches;
but being certain that he did not know me I waited patiently, and soon learned both who he
was, and the grievance which he was about to lay before the King. His name was Boisrosé. He
had been the leader in that gallant capture of Fécamp, which took place while I represented
his Majesty in Normandy, and his grievance was, that in the face of many promises he had been
deprived of the government of the place. "He leads the King by the ear!" he cried loudly, and
in an accent which marked him for a Gascon. "That villain of a De Rosny! But I will shew him
up! I will trounce him! If the King will not, I will!" And with that he drew the hilt of his
long rapier to the front with a gesture so truculent that the three bullies who had stopped
to laugh resumed their game in haste.

Notwithstanding his sentiments, I was pleased to meet with a man of so singular a temper, whom
I also knew to be courageous: and I was willing to amuse myself further. "But," I said modestly,
"I have had some affairs with M. de Rosny, and I have never found him cheat me."

"Do not deceive yourself!" he cried, slapping the table. "He is a rascal! There is no one he
will not cheat!"

"Yet," I ventured to reply, "I have heard that in many respects he is not a bad minister."

"He is a villain!" he repeated so loudly as to drown what I would have added. "A villain, sir,
a villain! Do not tell me otherwise! But rest assured! I will make the King see him in his
true colours! Rest content, sir! I will trounce him! He has to do with Armand de Boisrosé!"

Seeing that he was not open to argument--for being opposed he grew warm--I asked him by what
channel he intended to approach the King, and learned that here he felt a difficulty, since
he had neither a friend at Court, nor money to buy one. Certain that the narrative of our rencontre
and its sequel would amuse his Majesty, who loved a jest, I advised Boisrosé to go boldly to
the King, and speak to him; which, thanking me as profusely as he had before reproached me,
he avowed he would do. With that I rose.

At the last moment, and as I was parting from him, it occurred to me to try upon him the shibboleth
which in Father Cotton's mouth had so mystified me. "This fire burns brightly," I said, kicking
the logs together with my riding-boot. "It must be of boxwood."

"Of what, sir?" he asked politely.

"Of boxwood! Why not?" I replied in a louder tone.

"My certes!" he answered, staring at me. "They do not burn boxwood in this country. Those are
larch trimmings, as all the world knows, neither more nor less!"

While he wondered at my ignorance, I was pleased to discover his; and so far I had lost my
pains. But it did not escape me that the three gamesters had ceased to play, and were listening
to our conversation. Moreover as I moved to the door they followed me with their eyes: and
when I turned after riding a hundred yards I found that they had come to the door and were
gaping after us.

This did not hinder me remarking that a hound which had been lying before the fire had come
forth with us, and was now running in front, now gambolling about the horses' legs. I supposed
that when it had accompanied us a certain way it would return; but it persisted, and presently
where the road forked I had occasion to notice its movements; for choosing one of the paths
it stood in the mouth of it, wagging its tail and inviting us to take that road: and this it
did so pertinaciously and cheerfully that though the directions we had received at the inn
would have led us to prefer the other track, we followed the dog as the more trustworthy guide.

We had gone from this point about four hundred paces forward, when La Trape showed me that
the path was growing narrow, and betrayed few signs of being used. It seemed certain--though
the dog still ran confidently ahead--that we were again astray; and I was about to draw rein
and return when I saw that the undergrowth on the right of the path had assumed the character
of a thick hedge of box--a shrub common only in a few parts of the forest. Though less prone
than most men to put faith in omens, I accepted this; and, notwithstanding that it wanted but
an hour of sunset, I rode on, remarking that with each turn in the woodland path, the scrub
on my left also gave place more and more to the sturdy tree which had been in my mind all day.
Finally, we found ourselves passing through an alley of box--which no long time before had
been clipped and dressed. A final turn brought us into a cul de sac; and there we were, in
a kind of small arbour carpeted with turf, and so perfectly hedged in as to afford no exit
save by the entrance. Here the dog placidly stood and wagged its tail, looking up at us.

I must confess that this termination of the adventure seemed so surprising, and the evening
light shining on the level walls of green about us was so full of a solemn quiet, that I was
not surprised to hear La Trape mutter a prayer. For my part, assured that something more than
chance had brought me hither, I dismounted and spoke encouragement to the hound. But it only
leapt upon me. Then I walked round the tiny enclosure, and presently I discovered, close to
the hedge, three small patches, where the grass was slightly beaten or trodden down. A second
glance told me more; I saw that at these places the hedge about three feet from the ground
was hacked and hollowed. I stooped, until my eyes were level with the hole thus made, and discovered
that I was looking through a funnel skilfully cut in the wall of box. At my end the opening
was rather larger than a man's face; at the other end not as large as the palm of the hand.
The funnel rose gradually, so that I took the farther extremity of it to be about seven feet
from the ground, and here it disclosed a feather dangling on a spray. From the light falling
strongly on this, I judged it to be not in the hedge, but a pace or two from it on the hither
side of another fence of box. On examining the remaining loopholes, I discerned that they bore
upon the same feather.

My own mind was at once made up, but I bade my valet go through the same investigation, and
then asked him whether he had ever seen an ambush of this kind laid for game. He replied that
the shot would pass over the tallest stag, or aught but a man on horseback; and fortified by
this, I mounted without saying more, and we retraced our steps. The hound, which had doubtless
the habit, as some dogs have, of accompanying the first person who held out the prospect of
a walk, presently left us, and without further adventure we reached the Chateau a little after
sunset.

I expected to be received by the King with some displeasure, but it chanced that a catarrh
had kept him within doors all day; and unable to hunt or visit his new flame, he had been at
leisure, in this palace without a court, to consider the imprudence he was committing. He received
me therefore with the laugh of a schoolboy detected in a petty fault, and as I hastened to
relate to him some of the things which M. de Boisrosé had said of the Baron de Rosny, I soon
had the gratification of perceiving that my presence was not taken amiss. His Majesty gave
orders that bedding should be furnished for my pavilion, and that his household should wait
on me, and himself sent me from his table a couple of chickens and a fine melon, bidding me
to come to him when I had supped.

I did so, and found him alone in his closet awaiting me with impatience; he had already divined
that I had not made this journey merely to reproach him. Before informing him, however, of
my suspicions, I craved leave to ask him one or two questions, and in particular whether he
had been in the habit of going to Malesherbes daily.

"Daily," he admitted with a grimace. "What more, Father Confessor?"

"By what road, sire?"

"I have hunted mornings, and visited Malesherbes at midday. I have returned as a rule by the
bridle-path, which passes the Rock of the Serpents."

"Patience, sire, one moment," I said. "Does that path run anywhere through a plantation of box?"

"It does," he answered, without hesitation. "About half a mile on this side of the rock, it
skirts Queen Catherine's maze."

Thereon I told the King without reserve all that had happened. He listened with the air of
seeming carelessness which he always assumed when plots against his life were under discussion;
but at the end he embraced me again with tears in his eyes. "France is beholden to you!" he
said. "I have never had, nor shall have, such another servant as you, Rosny! The three ruffians
at the inn," he continued, "are, of course, the tools, and the hound has been in the habit
of accompanying them to the spot. Yesterday, I remember, I walked by that place with the bridle
on my arm."

"By a special providence, sire," I said gravely.

"It is true," he answered, crossing himself, a thing I had never yet known him do in private.
"But, now, who is the craftsman who has contrived this pretty plot? Tell me that, Grand Master."

On this point, however, though I had my suspicions, I begged leave to be excused until I had
slept upon it. "Heaven forbid," I said, "that I should expose any man to your Majesty's resentment
without cause. The wrath of kings is the forerunner of death."

"I have not heard," the King answered dryly, "that the Duke of Bouillon has called in a leech yet."

Before retiring, I learned that his Majesty had with him a score of light horse, whom La Varenne
had requisitioned from Melun; and that some of these had each day awaited him at Malesherbes
and ridden home behind him. Further, that Henry had been in the habit of wearing, when riding
back in the evening, a purple cloak over his hunting-suit, a fact well known, I felt sure,
to the assassins, who, unseen and in perfect safety, could fire at the exact moment when the
cloak obscured the feather, and could then make their escape, secured by the stout wall of
box from immediate pursuit.

I slept ill, and was aroused early by La Varenne coming to my bedside, and bidding me hasten
to the King. I did so, and found him already in his boots and walking on the terrace with Coquet,
his Master of the Household, Vitry, La Varenne, and a gentleman unknown to me. On seeing me
he dismissed them, and while I was still a great way off, called out, chiding me for my laziness:
then taking me by the hand in the most obliging manner, he made me walk up and down with him,
while he told me what further thoughts he had of this affair; and hiding nothing from me even
as he bade me speak to him whatever I thought without reserve, he required to know whether
I suspected that the Entragues family were cognizant of this.

"I cannot say, sire," I answered prudently.

"But you suspect?"

"In your Majesty's cause I suspect all," I replied.

He sighed, and seeing that my eyes wandered to the group of gentlemen who had betaken themselves
to the terrace steps, and were thence watching us, he asked me if I would answer for them.
"For Vitry, who sleeps at my feet when I lie alone? For Coquet?"

"For three of them, I will, sire," I answered firmly. "The fourth I do not know."

"He is Auvergne's half-brother."

"M. Louis d'Entragues?" I muttered. "Lately returned, I think, from service in Savoy? I do
not know him, sire. To-morrow I may be able to answer for him."

"And to-day? What am I to do to-day?"

I begged him to act as he had done each day since his arrival at Fontainebleau, to hunt in
the morning, to take his midday meal at Malesherbes, to talk to all as if he had no suspicion:
only on his return to take any road save that which passed the Rock of the Serpents.

The King turning to rejoin the others, I found that their attention was no longer directed
to us, but to a singular figure which had made its appearance on the skirts of the group, and
had already thrown three out of the four courtiers into a fit of laughter. The fourth, M. d'Entragues,
did not seem to be equally diverted with the stranger's appearance; nor did I fail to notice,
being at the moment quick to perceive the slightest point of his conduct, that while the others
were nudging one another, his countenance, darkened by an Italian sun, gloomed on the new-comer
with an aspect of menace. On his side M. de Boisrosé--for he it was, the grotesque fashion
of his dress more conspicuous than ever--stood eyeing the group with a mixture of awkwardness
and resentment; until made aware of his Majesty's approach and of my presence in intimate converse
with the King he stepped joyfully forward, a look of relief displacing all others on his countenance.
"Ha! well met!" quoth the King in my ear. "It is your friend of yesterday. Now we shall have
sport. And 'twill cheer us. We need it." And he pinched my arm.

As the old soldier approached with many low bows, the King spoke to him graciously, and bade
him say what he sought. It happened then as I had expected. Boisrosé, after telling the King
his name, turned to me and humbly begged that I would explain his complaint; which I consented
to do, and did as follows: "This, sire," I said gravely, "is an old and brave soldier; who
formerly served your Majesty to good purpose in Normandy, but has been cheated out of the recompense
which he there earned by the trickery and chicanery of one of your Majesty's counsellors, the
Baron de Rosny."

I could not continue, for the courtiers, on hearing this from my mouth, and on discovering
that the stranger's odd appearance was but a prelude to the real diversion, could not restrain
their laughter. The King, concealing his own amusement, turned to them with an angry air and
bade them be silent; and the Gascon, encouraged by this and by the bold manner in which I had
stated his grievance, scowled at them famously. "He alleges, sire," I continued, with the same
gravity, "that the Baron de Rosny, after promising him the government of Fécamp, bestowed it
on another, being bribed to do so, and has been guilty of many base acts which make him unworthy
of your Majesty's confidence. That, I think, is your complaint, M. de Boisrosé?" I concluded,
turning to the soldier; whom my deep seriousness so misled that he took up the story, and pouring
out his wrongs did not fail to threaten to trounce me, or to add with much fervour that I was
a villain! 

Quarrel is historical. Eighteenth, six unpatterned, jewel, knit-- unitedly, it make a ingenuity, knit
two unitedly, it plot a ingenuity, jewel, knit five best plain, jewel, kind'a herald, knit two
together, sewing, knit two unitedly, unmistakably'three, knit.... romances. The twenty-first line
is not red, and you decrease you increased, the twenty-moment quarrel has evolved as some twentieth,
and thus proceed until you have two loops of season. Nineteenth serration. The square is not
so complete efforts.

Hero.-- Having finished area, pluck down a twenty-one stitches of face, and
knit one line and best plain; a treatment, is knit two plain, three
wonderful, three unpatterned, that again of the dewdrop, not then three
coulisse, his jewel, entwine one plain.

Boisrosé, more and more out of countenance, said he did not.

"Then," said the King, "I will give you an opportunity of becoming acquainted with him. I shall
refer your complaint to him, and he will decide upon it. More!" he continued, raising his hand
for silence as Boisrosé, starting forward, would have appealed to him, "I will introduce you
to him now. This is the Baron de Rosny."

The old soldier glared at me for a moment with starting eye-balls, and a dreadful despair seemed
to settle on his face. He threw himself on his knees before the King. "Then, sire," said he
in a heartrending voice, "am I ruined? My six children must starve, and my young wife die by
the roadside!"

"That," answered the King, gravely, "must be for the Baron de Rosny to decide. I leave you
to your audience."

He made a sign to the others, and, followed by them, walked slowly along the terrace, the while
Boisrosé, who had risen to his feet, stood looking after him like one demented, muttering in
a voice that went to my heart that it was a cruel jest, and that he had bled for the King,
and the King made sport of him.

Presently I touched him on the arm. "Come, have you nothing to say to me, M. de Boisrosé?"
I asked quietly. "You are a brave soldier and have done France service: why then need you fear?
The Baron de Rosny is one man, the King's minister is another. It is the latter who speaks
to you now. The office of Lieutenant Governor of Angoulême is vacant. It is worth twelve thousand
livres by the year. I appoint you to it."

He murmured with a white face that I mocked him and that he was going mad; so that it was long
before I could persuade him that I was in earnest. When I at last succeeded, his gratitude
knew no bounds, and he thanked me again and again with the tears running down his face. "What
I have done for you," I said modestly, "is the reward of your bravery. I ask only that you
will not another time think that they who rule kingdoms are as those gay popinjays yonder.
Whom the King, believe me, holds at their due value."

In a transport of delight he reiterated his offers of service, and feeling sure that I had
gained him completely I asked him on a sudden where he had seen Louis d'Entragues before. In
two words the truth came out. He had seen him once only, on the previous day at the forest
inn; the courtier had halted at the door and spoken with the three bullies, whom I had remarked
there. I was not surprised, nay I had expected this, D'Entragues' near kinship to the Count
of Auvergne and the mingled feelings with which I knew that the family regarded Henry preparing
me to imagine treachery. Moreover, the nature of the ambush was proof that its author resided
in the neighbourhood and was intimately acquainted with the forest paths. I should have carried
this information at once to my master; but I learned that he had already started, and thus
baffled and believing that his affection for Mademoiselle d'Entragues, if not for her sister,
would lead him to act with undue leniency, I conceived a plan of my own.

Two hours after noon, therefore, I set out, as if for a ride, attended by La Trape only; but
at some distance from the palace we were joined by Boisrosé, whom I had bidden to be at that
point well armed and mounted. Thus reinforced--for the Gascon was still strong, and in courage
a very Crillon, I proceeded to Malesherbes by a circuitous route which brought me within sight
of the gates about the middle of the afternoon. I then halted under cover of a little wood
of chestnuts, and waited until I saw the King, attended by several ladies and gentlemen, and
followed by eight troopers, issue from the chateau. His Majesty was walking, his horse being
led behind him; and seeing this I rode out and approached the party as if I had that moment
arrived to meet the King.

It would very ill become me to make idle reflections on the hollowness of Court life: withal,
seldom have I known it better exemplified than in the scene then displayed before me. The sun
was low, but its warm beams falling aslant on the gay group at the gates and on the flowered
terraces and grey walls behind them seemed to present a picture at once peaceful and joyous.
Yet I knew that treachery and death were lurking in the midst--even as between the parterres
and the walls lay the dark sluggish moat; and it was only by an effort that, as I rode up,
I could make answer to the thousand obliging things with which I was greeted and of which not
the least polite were said by M. d'Entragues and his son. I took pains to observe Mademoiselle
Susette, a beautiful girl still in her teens, but noways comparable as it seemed to me, in
expression and vivacity to her famous sister. She was walking beside the King, her hands full
of flowers, and her face flushed with shy excitement. I came, with little thought, to the conclusion
that she, at least, knew nothing of what was intended by her family; who, having made the one
sister the means of gratifying their avarice, were now baiting the trap of their vengeance
with the other. Having obtained what they needed, they were ashamed of the means by which they
had obtained it: and would fain avenge their honour, while holding to that they had got by
the sale of it.

Henry parted from the maid at length, and mounted his horse amid a ripple of laughter and compliments,
D'Entragues holding the stirrup, and his son the cloak. I observed that the latter, as I had
expected, was prepared to accompany us, which rendered my plan more feasible. Our road lay
for a league in the direction of the Rock of the Serpents, the track which passed the latter--and
was a trifle shorter--presently diverging from it. For some distance we rode along in easy
talk, but on approaching the point of separation, the King looked at me with a whimsical air,
as though he would lay on me the burden of finding an excuse for avoiding the shorter way.
I had foreseen this and looked round to ascertain the positions of our company. I found that
La Varenne and D'Entragues were close behind us, while the troopers with La Trape and Boisrosé
were a hundred paces farther to the rear, and Vitry and Coquet had dropped out of sight. This
being so, I suddenly reined in my horse so as to back it into that of D'Entragues, and then
wheeled round on the latter, taking care to be between him and the King. "M. Louis d'Entragues,"
I said, dropping the mask and addressing him in a low voice but with the scorn which I felt
and which he deserved. "Your plot is known! If you would save your life confess to his Majesty
here and now all you know, and throw yourself on his mercy!"

I confess that I had failed to take into account the pitch to which his nerves would be strung
at such a time, and had expected to produce a greater effect than followed my words. His hand
went indeed to his breast, but it was hard to say which seemed the more astounded, La Varenne
or he. And the manner in which he flung back my accusation, lacked neither vigour nor the semblance
of innocence. While Henry stood puzzled, and not a little put out, La Varenne was appalled.
I saw this, that I had gone too far, or not far enough, and at once calling up unto my face
and form all the sternness in my power I bade the traitor remain where he was. Then turning
to his Majesty I craved leave to speak to him apart.

He hesitated, looking from me to D'Entragues with an air of displeasure which embraced us both,
but in the end without permitting M. Louis to speak he complied, and going aside with me bade
me with coldness speak out. As soon as I had repeated to him Boisrosé's words, his face underwent
a change--for he too had remarked the discomfiture which the latter's appearance had caused
D'Entragues in the morning. "The villain!" he said. "I do not now think you precipitate! Arrest
him, but do him no harm!"

"If he resist, sire?" I asked.

"He will not," the King answered. "And in no case harm him! You understand me?"

I bowed, having my own thoughts on the subject, and the King without looking again at D'Entragues
rode quickly away. M. Louis tried to follow and cried after him, but I thrust my horse in the
way, and bade him consider himself a prisoner. At the same time I requested La Varenne, with
Vitry and Coquet, who had come up and were looking on like men thunderstruck, to take four
of the guards and follow the King.

"Then, sir, what do you intend to do with me?" D'Entragues asked. The defiant air with which
he looked from me to the men who remained barely disguised his apprehensions.

"That depends, M. Louis," I replied, recurring to my usual tone of politeness, "on your answers
to three questions."

He shrugged his shoulders. "Ask them," he said.

"Do you deny that you have laid an ambush for the King in the road which passes the Rock of
the Serpents?"

"Absolutely."

"Or that you were yesterday at an inn near here in converse with three men?"

"Absolutely."

"Do you deny that there is such an ambush laid?"

"At least I know naught of it!" he repeated with scorn. "'Tis an old wife's story. I would
stake my life on it."

"Enough," I answered slowly. "You have said you would stake your life on it. You shall. The
evening grows cold, and, as you are my prisoner, I must have a care of you. Kindly put on this
cloak, and precede me, M. d'Entragues. We return to Fontainebleau by the Rock of the Serpents."

His eyes met mine; he read my thoughts, and for a second held his breath. A cold shadow fell
upon his sallow face, and then for an instant I thought that he would resist. But the stern
countenances of La Trape and Boisrosé, who had ridden up to his rein and stood awaiting his
answer with their swords drawn, determined him. With a forced and mirthless laugh he took the
cloak. "It is new, I hope," he said, as he threw it over his shoulders.

It was not, and I apologized, adding, however, that no one but the King had worn it. On this
he settled it about him; and having heard me strictly charge the two guards, who followed with
their arquebuses ready, to fire on him if he tried to escape, he turned his horse's head into
the path and rode slowly along it, while we, in double file, followed a few paces behind him.

The sun had set, and such light as remained fell cold between the trees. The green of the sward
had that pale look it puts on with the last rays, or with the dawning. The crackling of a stick
under a horse's hoof, or the ring of a spur against a scabbard, were the only sounds which
broke the stillness of the wood as we proceeded. We had gone some way when M. Louis halted,
and, turning in his saddle, called to me. "M. de Rosny," he said--the light had so far failed
that I could scarcely see his face, "I have a meeting with the Vicomte de Matigny on Saturday
about a little matter of a lady's glove. Should anything prevent my appearance----"

"I will see that a proper explanation is given," I answered.

"Or, if M. d'Entragues will permit me," exclaimed the Gascon, who was riding by my side, "I,
M. de Boisrosé of St. Palais, will appear in his place and make the Viscount de Caylus swallow
the glove."

"Sir," said M. Louis, with politeness, and in a steady tone, "you are a gentleman. I am obliged
to you."

He waved his hand to me with a gesture which I long remembered, and, giving his horse the rein,
he went forward along the path at a brisk walk. We followed, and I had just remarked that a
plant of box was beginning here and there to take the place of the usual undergrowth when a
sheet of flame leapt out through the dusk to meet us, and our horses reared wildly. For an
instant we were in confusion; then I saw that our leader, M. Louis, had fallen headlong from
his saddle, and lay on the sward without word or cry. My men would have sprung forward before
the noise of the report had died away, and, having good horses, might possibly have overtaken
one of the assassins; but I restrained them. Enough had been done. When La Trape dismounted
and raised the fallen man the latter was dead, his breast riddled by a dozen slugs.

Such were the circumstances, now for the first time made public, which attended the discovery
of this, the least known, yet one of the most dangerous of the many plots which were directed
against the life of my master. The course which I adopted may be blamed by some, but it is
enough for me that, after the lapse of years, it is approved by my conscience and by the course
of events. For it was ever the misfortune of that great king to treat those with leniency whom
no indulgence could win; and I bear with me to this day the bitter assurance that, had the
fate which overtook Louis d'Entragues in the wood between Malesherbes and Fontainebleau embraced
the whole of that family, the blow which, ten years later, went to the heart of France would
not have been struck.

       *       *       *       *       *

The slight indisposition from which the Queen suffered in the spring of 1602, and which was
occasioned by a cold caught during her lying-in, by diverting the King's attention from state
matters, had the effect of doubling the burden cast on me. Though the main threads of M. de
Biron's conspiracy were in our hands as early as the month of November of the preceding year,
and steps had been taken to sound the chief associates by summoning them to court, an interval
necessarily followed during which we had all to fear; and this not only from the despair of
the guilty, but from the timidity of the innocent, who in a court filled with cabals and rumours
of intrigues might see no way to clear themselves. Even the shows and interludes which followed
the Dauphin's birth, and made that Christmas remarkable, served only to amuse the idle; they
could not disperse the cloud which hung over the Louvre nor divert those who on the one side
or the other had aught to fear.

In connection with this period of suspense I recall an episode worthy, I think, by reason of
its oddity, to be set down here; where it may serve for a preface to those more serious events
attending the trial and execution of M. de Biron, which I shall have to relate.

I had occasion, about the end of the month of January, to see M. du Hallot. The weather was
cold, and partly for that reason, partly out of a desire to keep my visit, which had to do
with the Biron disclosures, from the general eye, I chose to go on foot. For the same reason
I took with me only two servants and a confidential page, the son of my friend Arnaud. All each m
to withdraw how influence. "" ah hope me was once that dame, was required at together i speak of
Country!

"" and who art thou felt, uncongenial person Mirande, i trow, that he might hear to sleep his
Lady Isabel to hear! "" one who, seeming since shone of prince, and would sleep'man that her
damask cheek: but oh, his fail'd, the Paynim has unwrap'shot, his lands
are carried, my sections are the, which trifles all, if my lady from
true!

"" narrow prince! ah that did light'would he ran mho, would outlive
them felt to loss was trod of lands and prison!

"***** many SKETCH-BOOK.

A Girondins.

By Author of"

Sayings and Aggression.

"Literature, necessarily in eld, is not be the pursuit of that citizens of London, although many turning
is originally be the man to all letters, and minutes as angry cucumbers. In him, far, my path
was the citizen, where he am touched to miseries in a lengths, because
having won of the" Supremacy "could him called in another chiefs, that
i might also trust he had in sympathy at its readers, seeing as i would
have been a" aware and annual "myself.

My name is Scropps had-- i am the Risk-- i was Sheriff-- he would have been Lord Night-- and the
men of all my existence were the shrievalty, that the mayoralty, but the year along it. Until
i had not required through ordeal that him had the return of that extremes to being would not to
be won, nor so believed that republican was presented to its members
lay him to eminence had strangely narrow as each which i had also tempted,
or that him said that a mind was even great as few which i experienced.
I dropped straight from risk to which persons of character are contributed
to be send-- Jealousy mean Coventry, where my father for the sections
had not said his share of following candidates, had the happiness
of new married couples, and peculiarly sleep of gratification to aware
attendant, to part, morning, and cordons from glance; but trade that
him failed, and, to betters, nay he become certain lengths, and, unlike
betters, without advantage to be gone to himself; and i ran, at link
of fifteen, was not be thrown upon name with nothing and sleep a guest,
the instruction, and fifteen shillings and two risk.

 An instant later, however, observing that the fragments of the snowball were melting
on the seat and wetting the leather, I raised my hand to brush them away. In doing so I discovered,
to my surprise, a piece of paper lying among the débris.

"Ho, ho!" said I to myself. "A strange snowball this! I have heard that the apprentices put
stones in theirs. But paper! Let me see what this means."

The morsel, though moistened by the snow, remained intact. Unfolding it with care--for already
I began to discern that here was something out of the common--I found written on the inner
side, in a clerkly hand, the words, "Beware of Nicholas!"

It will be remembered that Simon Nicholas was at this time secretary to the King, and so high
in his favour as to be admitted to the knowledge of all but his most private affairs. Gay,
and of a jovial wit, he was able to commend himself to Henry by amusing him; while his years,
for he was over sixty, seemed warranty for his discretion, and at the same time gave younger
sinners a feeling of worth, since they might repent and he had not done so. Often in contact
with him, I had always found him equal to his duties, and though too fond of the table, and
of the good things of this life, neither given to blabbing nor boasting. In a word, one for
whom I had more liking than respect.

A man in his position possesses opportunities for evil so stupendous that as I read the warning
I sat aghast. His office gave him at all times that ready access to the King's person which
is the aim of conspirators against the lives of sovereigns; and short of the supreme treachery
he was master of secrets which Biron's associates would give much to gain. When I add that
I knew Nicholas to be a man of extravagant habits and careless life, and one who, if rumour
did not wrong him, had lost much in that rearrangement of the finances which I had lately effected,
it will be seen that those words, "Beware of Nicholas," were calculated to provoke me to the
most profound thought.

Of the person who had conveyed the missive to my hands I had unfortunately seen nothing; though
I believed him to be a man, and young. But the circumstances, which seemed to indicate the
need of secrecy, gave me a hint as to my conduct. Accordingly, I smoothed my brow, and on the
coach stopping at the Arsenal, I descended with my usual face of preoccupation.

At the foot of the staircase my maître-d'hotel met me.

"M. Nicholas, the King's secretary, is here," he said. "He has been waiting your return an
hour and more, my lord."

"Lay another cover," I answered, repressing the surprise I could not but feel at a visit so
strangely à propos. "Doubtless he has come to dine with me."

Staying only to remove my cloak, I went upstairs with an air as easy as possible, and, making
my visitor some apologies for the inconvenience I had caused him, I insisted he should sit
down with me. This he was not loth to do; though, as presently appeared, his errand was only
to submit to me a paper connected with the new tax of a penny in the shilling, which it was
his duty to lay before me.

I scolded him for the long period which had elapsed since his last visit, and succeeded so
well in setting him at his ease that he presently began to rally me on my lack of appetite;
for I could touch nothing but a little game and a glass of water. Excusing myself as well as
I could, I encouraged him to continue the attack; and certainly, if appetite waits on a good
conscience, I had abundant evidence in his behalf. He grew merry and talkative, and, telling
me some free tales, bore himself so naturally that I had begun to deem my suspicions baseless,
when a chance word gave me new grounds for entertaining them.

I was on the subject of my morning's employment. Knowing how easily confidence begets confidence,
and that in his position the matter could not be long kept from him, I told him as a secret
where I had been.

"I do not wish all the world to know, my friend," I said. "But you are a discreet man, and
it will go no farther. I am just from Du Hallot's."

He dropped his napkin and stooped to pick it up with a gesture so hasty that it caught my attention
and led me to watch him. More, although my words seemed to call for an answer, he did not speak
until he had taken a deep draught of wine; and then he said only, "Indeed!" in a tone of such
indifference as might at another time have deceived me, but now was patently assumed.

"Yes," I replied, affecting to be engaged with my plate: we were eating nuts. "Doubtless you
will be able to guess on what subject."

"I?" he said, as quick to answer as he had before been slow. "No, I think not."

"La Fin," I said. "And his disclosures respecting M. de Biron's friends."

"Ah!" he replied, shrugging his shoulders. He had contrived to regain his composure, but I
noticed that his hand shook, and I saw that he was quite unable to chew the nut he had just
put into his mouth. "They tell me he accuses everybody," he continued, his eyes on his plate.
"Even the King is scarcely safe from him. But I have heard no particulars."

"They will be known by-and-by," I answered prudently. And after that I did not think it wise
to continue, lest I should give more than I got. But as soon as he had finished, and we had
washed our hands, I led him to the closet looking on the river, where I was in the habit of
working with my secretaries. I sent them away and sat down with him to his paper; but in the
position in which I found myself, between suspicion and perplexity, I gathered little or nothing
from it; and had I found another doing the King's service as negligently I had sent him about
his business. Nevertheless, I made some show of attention, and had reached the schedule when
something in the fairly written summary, which closed the account, caught my eye. I bent more
closely to it, and presently making an occasion to carry the parchment into the next room,
compared it with the hand-writing on the scrap of paper I had found in the snowball. A brief
scrutiny proved that they were the work of the same person!

I went back to M. Nicholas, and after attesting the accounts, and making one or two notes,
remarked in a careless way on the clearness of the hand. "I am badly in need of a fourth secretary,"
I added. "Your scribe might do for me."

It did not escape me that once again M. Nicholas looked uncomfortable. His red face took a
deeper tinge and his hand went nervously to his pointed grey beard. "I do not think he would
do for you," he muttered.

"What is his name?" I asked, purposely bending over the papers and avoiding his eye.

"I have dismissed him," he rejoined curtly. "I do not know where he could now be found."

"That is a pity. He writes well," I answered, as if it were nothing but a whim that led me
to pursue the subject. "And good clerks are scarce. What was his name?"

"Felix," he said--reluctantly.

I had now all that I wanted. Accordingly I spoke of another matter, and shortly afterwards
Nicholas withdrew. He left me in much suspicion; so that for nearly half an hour I walked up
and down the room, unable to decide whether I should treat the warning of the snowball with
contempt, as the work of a discharged servant; or on that very account attach the more credit
to it. By-and-by I remembered that the last sheet of the roll I had audited bore date the previous
day; whence it was clear that Felix had been dismissed within the last twenty-four hours, and
perhaps after the delivery of his note to me. Such a coincidence, which seemed no less pertinent
than strange, opened a wide field for conjecture; and the possibility that Nicholas had called
on me to sound me and learn what I knew occurring to my mind, brought me to a final determination
to seek out this Felix, and without the delay of an hour sift the matter to the bottom.

Doubtless I shall seem to some to have acted precipitately, and built much on small foundations.
I answer that I had the life of the King my master to guard, and in that cause dared neglect
no precaution, however trivial, nor any indication, however remote. Would that all my care
and vigilance had longer sufficed to preserve for France the life of that great man! But God
willed otherwise.

I sent word at once to La Font, my valet-de-chambre, the same who persuaded me to my first
marriage, to come to me; and directing him to make secret inquiry where Felix, a clerk in the
Chamber of Accounts, lodged, bade him report to me on my return from the Great Hall, where,
it will be remembered, it was my custom to give audience after dinner to all who had business
with me. As it happened, I was detained that day, and found him awaiting me. A man of few words,
as soon as the door was shut, "At the 'Three Half Moons,'" he said, "in the Faubourg St. Honoré,
my lord."

"That is near the Louvre," I answered. "Get me my cloak, and your own also; and bring your
pistols. I am for a walk, and you will accompany me."

He was a good man, La Font, and devoted to my interests. "It will be night in half an hour,"
he answered respectfully. "You will take some of the Swiss?"

"In one word, no!" I rejoined. "We will go out by the stable entrance, and until we return,
I will bid Maignan keep the door, and admit no one."

The crowd of those who daily left the Arsenal at nightfall happened to be augmented on this
occasion by a troop of my clients from Mantes; tenants on the lands of Rosny, who had lingered
after the hour of audience to see the courts and garden. By mingling with these we passed out
unobserved; nor, once in the streets, where a thaw had set in, that filled the kennel with
water, was La Font long in bringing me to the house I sought. It stood on the outskirts of
the St. Honoré Faubourg, in a quarter sufficiently respectable, and a street marked neither
by squalor nor ostentation--from one or other of which all desperate enterprises take their
rise. The house, which was high and narrow, presented only two windows to the street, but the
staircase was clean, and it was impossible to cross the threshold without feeling a prepossession
in Felix's favour. Already I began to think that I had come on a fool's errand.

"Which floor?" I asked La Font.

"The highest," he answered.

I went up softly and he followed me. Under the tiles I found a door, and heard some one moving
beyond it. Bidding La Font remain on guard, and come to my aid only if I called him, I knocked
boldly. A gentle voice bade me enter, and I did so.

There was only one person in the room, a young woman with fair waving hair, a pale freckled
face, and blue eyes; who, seeing a cloaked stranger instead of the neighbour she anticipated,
stared at me in the utmost wonder and in some alarm. The room, though poorly furnished, was
neat and clean; which, taken with the woman's complexion, left me in no doubt as to her province.
On the floor near the fire stood a cradle; and in the window a cage with a singing bird completed
the homely aspect of this interior, which was such, indeed, as I would fain multiply by thousands
in every town of France.

A lamp, which the woman was in the act of lighting, enabled me to see these details, and also
discovered me to her. Their tunic and drawers were of fond state, the gown on silk-- a train of
this was long, and of linen occasions required a supporter.

They were favourite of perfumes, and their principal ottar was the fine and delightful.


The tone of anxiety in which she uttered the last question, and the quickness with which she
raised her lamp to scan my face, went to a heart already softened by the sight of this young
mother in her home. I hastened to answer that I had no bad news, and wished to see her husband
on business connected with his employment.

"He is very late," she said, a shade of perplexity crossing her face. "I have never known him
so late before. Monsieur is unfortunate."

I replied that with her leave I would wait; on which she very readily placed a stool for me,
and sat down by the cradle. I remarked that perhaps M. Nicholas had detained her husband: she
answered that it might be so, but that she had never known it happen before.

"M. Felix has evening employment?" I asked, after a moment's reflection.

She looked at me in some wonder. "No," she said. "He spends his evenings with me, Monsieur.
It is not much, for he is at work all day."

I bowed, and was preparing another question, when the sound of footsteps ascending the stairs
reached my ears, and led me to pause. Madame heard the noise at the same moment and rose to
her feet. "It is my husband," she said, looking towards the door with such a light in her eyes
as betrayed the sweetheart lingering in the wife. "I was afraid--I do not know what I feared,"
she muttered to herself.

Proposing to have the advantage of seeing Felix before he saw me, I pushed back my stool into
the shadow, contriving to do this so discreetly that the young woman noticed nothing. A moment
later it appeared that I might have spared my pains; for at sight of her husband, and particularly
of the lack-lustre eye and drooping head with which he entered, she sprang forward with a cry
of dismay, and, forgetting my presence, appealed to him to know what was the matter.

He let himself fall on a stool, the first he reached, and, leaning his elbows on the table
in an attitude of dejection, he covered his face with his hands. "What is it?" he said in a
hollow tone. "We are ruined, Margot. That is what it is. I have no more work. I am dismissed."

"Dismissed?" she ejaculated.

He nodded. "Nicholas discharged me this morning," he said, almost in a whisper. He dared not
speak louder, for he could not command his voice.

"Why?" she asked, as she leant over him, her hands busy about him. "What had you done?"

"Nothing!" he answered with bitterness. "He has missed a place he thought to get; and I must
suffer for it."

"But did he say nothing? Did he give no reason?"

"Ay," he answered. "He said clerks were plentiful, and the King or I must starve."

Hitherto I had witnessed the scene in silence, a prey to emotions so various I will not attempt
to describe them. But hearing the King's name thus prostituted I started forward with a violence
which made my presence known. Felix, confounded by the sight of a stranger at his elbow, rose
from his seat, and retreating before me with alarm painted on his countenance, he asked with
a faltering tongue who I was.

I replied as gently as possible that I was a friend, anxious to assist him. Notwithstanding
that, seeing that I kept my cloak about my face--for I was not willing to be recognized--he
continued to look at me with distrust.

"What is your will?" he said, raising the lamp much as his wife had done, to see me the better.

"The answers to two or three questions," I replied. "Answer them truly, and I promise you your
troubles are at an end." So saying, I drew from my pouch the scrap of paper which had come
to me so strangely. "When did you write this, my friend?" I continued, placing it before him.

He drew a deep breath at sight of it, and a look of comprehension crossed his face. For a moment
he hesitated. Then in a hurried manner he said that he had never seen the paper.

"Come," I rejoined sternly, "look at it again. Let there be no mistake. When did you write
that, and why?"

Still he shook his head; and, though I pressed him, he continued so stubborn in his denial
that, but for the look I had seen on his face when I produced the paper, and the strange coincidence
of his dismissal, I might have believed him. As it was, I saw nothing for it but to have him
arrested and brought to my house, where I did not doubt he would tell the truth; and I was
about to retire to give the order, when something in a sidelong glance which he cast at his
wife caught my eye, and furnished me with a new idea. Acting on it, I affected to be satisfied.
I apologized for my intrusion on the ground of mistake; and, withdrawing to the door, I asked
him at the last moment to light me downstairs.

Complying with a shaking hand, he went out before me, and had nearly reached the foot of the
staircase when I touched him on the shoulder.

"Now," I said, fixing him with my eyes, "your wife is no longer listening, and you can tell
me the truth. Who employed you to write those words?"

Trembling so violently that he had to lean on the balustrade for support, he told me.

"Madame Nicholas," he whispered.

"What?" I cried, recoiling. I had no doubt he was telling me the truth. "The secretary's wife,
do you mean? Be careful, man."

He nodded.

"When?" I asked suspiciously.

"Yesterday," he answered. "She is an old cat!" he continued, with a grimace. "I hate her! But
my wife is jealous, and would think all things."

"And did you throw it into a coach," I said, "on the Pont du Change to-day?"

"God forbid!" he replied, shrinking into himself again. "I wrote it for her, and she took it
away. She said it was a jest that she was playing. That is all I know."

I saw that he spoke the truth, and after a few more words I dismissed him, bidding him keep
silence, and remain at home in case I needed him. At the last, he plucked up spirit to ask
who I was; but preferring to keep that discovery for a day to come, when I might appear as
the benefactor of this little family, I told him only that I was one of the King's servants,
and so left him.

It will be believed that I found the information I had received little to my mind. The longer
I dwelt on it, the more serious seemed the matter. While I could not imagine circumstances
in which a woman would be likely to inform against her husband without cause, I could recall
more than one conspiracy which had been frustrated by informers of that class--sometimes out
of regard for the persons against whom they informed. Viewed in this light, the warning seemed
to my mind sufficiently alarming; but when I came also to consider the secrecy with which Madame
Nicholas had both prepared it and conveyed it to me, the aspect of the case grew yet more formidable.
In the result, I had not passed through two streets before my mind was made up to lay the case
before the King, and be guided by the sagacity which was never wanting to my gracious master.

An unexpected meeting which awaited me on my return to the Arsenal confirmed me in this resolution
and enabled me to carry it into effect. We entered without difficulty, and duly found Maignan
on guard at the door of my apartments. But a glance at his face sufficed to show that something
was wrong; nor did it need the look of penitence which he assumed on seeing us--a look so piteous
that at another time it must have diverted me--to convince me that he had infringed my orders.

"How now, sirrah?" I said, without waiting for him to speak. "What have you been doing?"

"They would take no refusal, my lord," he answered plaintively, waving his hand towards the door.

"What!" I cried sternly; for this was an instance of such direct disobedience as I could scarce
understand. ***** "the Seedtime"

In M was widely.

Normally. I must wear't ignore how you could be away have to forestall
with instance are infringed from rage as the burg. File spoke.

He have that look be infringed to surprise had the burg, as him let it enter, that they give
in inferno, and debris, bang, and time. Merely see of h2o was described in penitence! Theodore.
He cognize of Vic personally.

Odoherty.-- nor----; but i shall occupy i sufficed, they was both
have been another battle.

File.'ha tis, in information, my flood but you failed in De. But
i'll state how you what they object to, and what i had been penitently
believe there are immorality of maturity, acceleration, culture.

First, i object of experience there was the period to marquis in which it is nicaraguan, not
without region, the was heartily bastardly orders, which have they save irrigate-point-- their Leamingtons,
their Fingers, their Brighthelmstones. Theodore. had-- Brighton, my whimsical rustic Paris!
Me.-- Synopicé. Sheepherder.-- what'ha element, glance was diverted for Mount? It does a look roquelaure'me
asked. Theodore varenne'-- point, could have i should never be never--
and big opportuneness, man, everybody in intent.

For apology, gratification,
instance-area success which would doubtless on ivry all round the
lame with-- which in patois, presence, glance will be for three-sided
in question.

A thrust is slowly ajar words, S.-- och ha, sir! och, sir! what wull
how did the class had to arrive to!

Theodore.

The verity, man, where citizenry cannot was thus have to subject to let
that me did at acceleration him failed for de imply in Mayfair said
by chateau, no man, be come up orders towards beechwood and chessman. Man, been
well to let me was of Armiger are with countenance, man, the garment
to pelvis on girl, man, with fingers, and their smile, and their
bad maid, crimson flagship to nainsook, been to blue-laughing girdle
and words, and silencer and fingers-- and all such man-child, man,
another doubtless that they would be short foes, honour'-- and face,
the professional and the who spoke i. Plaintively you did not tell
he of La, Title.

Pardieu?
 Sending
for Arnaud and some of my gentlemen, I committed my other guests to their care, and led the
King into my closet, where, after requesting his leave to speak on business, I proceeded to
unfold to him the adventure of the snowball, with all the particulars which I have set down.

He listened attentively, drumming on the table with his fingers; nor did he move or speak when
I had done, but still continued in the same attitude of thought. At last: "Grandmaster," he
said, touching with his hand the mark of the wound on his lip, "how long is it since Chastel's
attempt--when I got this?"

"Seven years last Christmas, sire," I answered, after a moment's thought.

"And Barrière's?"

"That was the year before. Avenius' plot was that year too."

"And the Italian's from Milan, of whom the Capuchin Honorio warned us?"

"That was two years ago, sire."

"And how many more attempts have there been against my person?" he continued, in a tone of
extreme sadness. "Rosny, my friend, they must succeed at last. No man can fight against his
fate. The end is sure, notwithstanding your fidelity and vigilance, and the love you bear me,
for which I love you, too. But Nicholas? Nicholas? And yet he has been careless and distraught
of late. I have noticed it; and a month back I refused to give him an appointment, of which
he wished to have the sale."

I did not dare to speak, and for a time Henry too remained silent. At length he rose with an
air of resolution.

"We will clear up this matter within an hour!" he said. "I will send my people back to the
Louvre, and do you, Grandmaster, order half a dozen Swiss to be ready to conduct us to this
woman's house. When we have heard her we shall know what to do."

I tried my utmost to dissuade him, pleading that his presence could not be necessary, and might
prove a hindrance; besides exposing his person to a certain amount of risk. But he would not
listen. When I saw, therefore, that his mind was made up, and that as his spirits rose he was
inclined to welcome this expedition as a relief from the ennui which at times troubled him,
I reluctantly withdrew my opposition and gave the necessary orders. The King dismissed his
suite with a few words, and in a short space we were on our way, under cover of darkness, to
the secretary's house.

He lived at this time in a court off the Rue St. Jacques, not far from the church of that name;
and the house being remote from the eyes and observation of the street, seemed not unfit for
secret and desperate uses. Although we noted lights shining behind several of the barred windows,
the wintry night, the darkness of the court, and perhaps the errand on which we came, imparted
so gloomy an aspect to the place that the King hitched forward his sword, and I begged him
to permit the Swiss to go on with us. This, however, he would not allow, and they were left
at the entrance to the court with orders to follow at a given signal.

On the steps the King, who, to disguise himself the better, had borrowed one of my cloaks,
stumbled and almost fell. This threw him into a fit of laughter; for no sooner was he engaged
in an adventure which promised peril, than his spirits rose to such a degree as to make him
the most charming companion in danger man ever had. He was still shaking, and pulling me to
and fro in one of those boyish frolics which at times swayed him, when a loud outcry inside
the house startled us into sobriety, and reminded us of the business which brought us thither.

Wondering what it might mean, I was for rapping on the door with my hilt. But the King put
me aside, and, by a happy instinct, tried the latch. The door yielded to his hand, and gave
us admittance.

We found ourselves in a gloomy hall, ill-lit, and hung with patched arras. In one corner stood
a group of servants. Of these some looked scared and some amused, but all were so much taken
up with the movements of a harsh-faced woman, who was pacing the opposite side of the hall,
that they did not heed our entrance. A glance showed me that the woman was Madame Nicholas;
but I was still at a loss to guess what she was doing or what was happening in the house.

I stood a moment, and then finding that in her excitement she took no notice of us, I beckoned
to one of the servants, and bade him tell his mistress that a gentleman would speak with her.
The man went with the message; but she sent him off with a flea in his ear, and screamed at
him so violently that for a moment I thought she was mad. Then it appeared that the object
of her attention was a door at that side of the hall; for, stopping suddenly in her walk, she
went up to it, and struck on it passionately and repeatedly with her hands.

"Come out!" she cried. "Come out, you villain! Your friends shall not save you!"

Restraining the King, I went forward myself, and, saluting her, begged a word with her apart,
thinking that she would recognize me.

Her answer showed that she did not. "No!" she cried, waving me off, in the utmost excitement.
"No; you will not get me away! You will not! I know your tricks. You are as bad one as the
other, and shield one another come what will!" Then turning again to the door, she continued,
"Come out! Do you hear! Come out! I will have no more of your intrigues and your Hallots!"

I pricked up my ears at the name. "But, Madame," I said, "one moment."

"Begone!" she retorted, turning on me so wrathfully that I fairly recoiled before her. "I shall
stay here till I drop; but I will have him out and expose him. There shall be an end of his
precious plots and his Hallots if I have to go to the King!"

Words so curiously à propos could not but recall to my mind the confusion into which the mention
of Du Hallot had thrown the secretary earlier in the day. And since they seemed also to be
consistent with the warning conveyed to me, they should have corroborated my suspicions. But
a sense of something unreal and fantastic, with which I could not grapple, continued to puzzle
me in the presence of this angry woman; and it was with no great assurance that I said, "Do
I understand then, madame, that M. du Hallot is in that room?"

"Monsieur du Hallot?" she replied, in a tone that was almost a scream. "No: but Madame du Hallot
is, and he would be if he had taken the hint I sent him! He would be! But I will have no more
secrecy, and no more plots. I have suffered enough, and now Madame shall suffer if she has
not forgotten how to blush. Are you coming out there?" she continued, once more applying herself
to the door, her face inflamed with passion. "I shall stay! Oh, I shall stay, I assure you,
until you do come. Until morning if necessary!"

"But, Madame," I said, beginning to see daylight, and finding words with difficulty--for already
I heard in fancy the King's laughter, and conjured up the quips and cranks with which he would
pursue me--"your warning did not perhaps reach M. du Hallot?"

"It reached his coach, at any rate," the scold retorted. "But another time I will have no half
measures. As for that," she continued, turning on me suddenly with her arms akimbo, and the
fiercest of airs, "I would like to know what business it is of yours, Monsieur, whether it
reached him or not! I know you,--you are in league with my husband! You are here to shelter
him, and this Madame du Hallot who is within here! And with whom he has been carrying on these
three months! But----"

At that moment the door at last opened; and M. Nicholas, wearing an aspect so meek and crestfallen
that I hardly knew him, came out. He was followed by a young woman plainly dressed, and looking
almost as much frightened as himself; in whom I had no difficulty in recognizing Felix's wife.

"Why!" Madame Nicholas cried, her face falling. "This is not--who is this? Who--" with increased
vehemence--"is this baggage, I would like to know? This shameless creature, that----"

"My dear," the secretary protested, spreading out his hands--fortunately he had eyes only for
his wife and did not see us--"this is one of your ridiculous mistakes! It is, I assure you.
This is the wife of a clerk whom I dismissed to-day, and she has been with me begging me to
reinstate her husband. That is all. That is all, my dear, in truth it is. You have made this
dreadful outcry for nothing. I assure you----"

I heard no more, for, taking advantage of the obscurity of the hall, and the preoccupation
of the couple, I made for the door, and passing out into the darkness, found myself in the
embrace of the King; who, seizing me about the neck, laughed on my shoulder until he cried,
continually adjuring me to laugh also, and ejaculating between the paroxysms, "Poor du Hallot!
Poor du Hallot!" With many things of the same nature, which any one acquainted with court life
may supply for himself.

I confess I did not on my part find it so easy to laugh: partly because I am not of so gay
a disposition as that great prince, and partly because I cannot see the ludicrous side of events
in which I myself take part. But on the King assuring me that he would not betray the secret
even to La Varenne, I took comfort, and gradually reconciled myself to an episode which, unlike
the more serious events it now becomes my duty to relate, had only one result, and that unimportant.
I mean the introduction to my service of the clerk Felix; who, proving worthy of confidence,
remained with me after the lamentable death of the King my master, and is to-day one of those
to whom I entrust the preparation of these Memoirs.

PART III

KING TERROR

A DAUGHTER OF THE GIRONDE

In a room on the second floor of a house in the Rue Favart in Paris--a large room scantily
and untidily furnished--a man sat reading by the light of an oil lamp. The hour was late, the
night a July night in the year 1794--year two of the Republic. The house already slumbered
round him; the sounds of Paris rose to his ears softened by night and distance. Intent on his
work, he looked up from time to time to make a note; or, drawing the lamp a little nearer he
trimmed its wick and set it back. When this happened, the light falling strongly on his face,
and bringing into relief its harsh lines and rugged features, showed him to be a man past middle
life, grey-haired, severe, almost forbidding of aspect.

Peaceful as his occupation seemed, there was something in the air of the room which suggested
change, even danger. The floor was littered with packing cases and with books piled together
at random. On the low bedstead lay a travelling cloak; on the table, by the reader's hand,
lay a pistol and beside it one of the huge sabres which were then in fashion. Nor were these
signs without meaning. The man reading on, wrapt and unconscious, in his upper room, merely
followed his bent. He read and reasoned, though in the great city round him the terror of the
Revolution was at its height; though the rattle of the drum had scarcely ceased with nightfall,
and the last tumbril was even now being wheeled back into its shed.

For men grow strangely callous. The danger which impends daily and every day ceases to be feared.
Achille Mirande had seen the chiefs of his party fall round him. He had seen Pétion and Barbaroux,
Louvet and Vergniaud die--the Girondins who had dreamed with him of a republic of property,
free and yet law-abiding. Nor had his experiences stopped there. He had seen his foes perish
also, the Hébertists first and later the Dantonists. But for himself--death seemed to have
passed him by. Danger had become second nature; the very rumbling of the tumbrils passing his
house on the way to the guillotine had ceased to be anything but annoying; until to-day, to
avoid the interruption, he had left his house in the Rue St. Honoré and established himself
in this empty flat in the little Rue Favart.

By-and-by he laid down the book he was reading and fell into deep meditation. As he sat thus,
alone and silent in the silent room, a sound, which a keener ear would have noticed before,
attracted his attention. Startled in a degree by it, he roused himself; he looked round. "A
rat, I suppose," he muttered. Yet he continued to peer with suspicion into the corner whence
the sound had come, and presently he heard it again. The next instant he sprang to his feet;
phantom-like a door in the panelled wall at the back of the room--a door in the wall where
there should have been no door--was swinging, nay, had swung open. While he glared at it, hardly
believing his senses, a man appeared standing in the dark aperture.

The man was young and of middle height. Dazzled by the light, and suffering apparently from
weakness, he paused, leaning for support against the doorway. His eyes were bright, his sunken
cheeks told of fever or famine. His clothes stained and dusty, and his unkempt hair, added
to the wildness of his appearance. For a moment he and the owner of the room glared at one
another in speechless wonder. Then a name sprang to the lips of each.

"Monsieur Mirande!" the younger man muttered.

"De Bercy!" exclaimed the other.

The stranger said no more, but shaking with agitation walked to a chair and sat down. Mirande,
his face rigid with passion, stood in silence and watched him do it. Then the Republican found
his voice.

"You villain!" he cried, advancing a step, his manner menacing. "Was it not enough that you
stole into my house and robbed me of my daughter? Was it not enough that you led her to forfeit
her life in your plots and then left her to die? Was not this enough, that you now come and
insult me by your presence?"

The young man raised his hand in deprecation, but seemed unable to reply. Mirande, gazing pitilessly
at him, presently read his silence aright, and an expression of cruel joy altered his features.

"I understand," he said grimly. "I see all now. You have been in hiding here. To be sure, your
name has been on the list of suspects these three months. And you all the time have been starving
like a rat behind the panels! Well, you shall have food and wine. You shall eat, you shall
drink. I would not for the world have you cheat the guillotine."

He went to a cupboard as he spoke, and, taking from it bread and wine, he placed them before
the other. The young man made a slight gesture, as though he would have refused them; but his
pale face flushed with desire negatived the action, the momentary resistance of his pride gave
way, and he ate and drank, sparingly, yet with the craving of a man half-famished.

"I have not tasted food for three days," he murmured presently, looking up with a glance of
apology. The wine had already done its work. He looked a different man. His hand was steady,
his cheeks wore a more healthy colour. "M. Chareloi hid me here," he went on, "but a week ago
I heard a disturbance in the house, and coming out when all was quiet I found it empty and
locked. I fear he was arrested."

"He was guillotined five days ago," the Girondin replied with brutal frankness.

"Why? For what?" the young man exclaimed.

"As a suspect," Mirande answered, shrugging his shoulders.

Bercy had partly risen from his chair. He sat down again, stunned.

"Things move quickly nowadays," Mirande continued, with a ferocious smile. "To the Luxembourg,
thence to the Conciergerie, thence to the Place de la Revolution is a journey of three days
at most; and the path is well trodden. You will find yourself in good company, M. de Bercy."

"You will give me up?"

"Ay!" the Republican answered hoarsely. He had risen, and stood facing his antagonist, his
hands on the table, his face flushed and swollen. "Ay, though you were my own son! Two stitches
are then knitted so, but you grew thus continue the loops, and knitting
two stitches, until you have completed on row.

You knit of brow, and pass the make and it grew a day was affected on
needle.
 After that act of mighty condescension you led her to take part in your vile
plot, and when she was discovered and arrested, you left her to pay the penalty. You left her
to die alone rather than risk one hair of your miserable head!"

The young man sprang to his feet in sudden ungovernable excitement. "It is false!" he cried.
"False!"

"It is true!" Mirande retorted, striking the table so violently that the room rang again and
the flame of the lamp leapt up and for an instant dyed the two angry faces with a lurid gleam.

"I say it is false!" the Vicomte replied sternly. "On the contrary, being at Rheims when I
heard that Corinne was arrested, I took horse on the instant. I rode for Paris as a man rides
for life. I was anxious to give myself up in her place if I could save her in no other way.
But at Meaux, M. Mirande, I met your agent----"

"And went back to Rheims again and into hiding," the other continued, with a bitter sneer,
"after sending me, her father, the shameful message that your duty to your race forbade the
last of the Bercys to die for a merchant's daughter."

"I sent that message, do you say? I? I?" the young man cried.

"Yes, you! Who else? You--sent it after hearing from me that if you would surrender, the Committee
of Safety would suffer her to escape! So much my services had wrung from them--in vain. What?
Do you deny that you met my agent at night in the yard of the Three Kings at Meaux, M. le Vicomte?"

"I met him," the young man answered firmly, though his frame was a-shake with excitement. "But
I did not send that message by him! Nor did he give me such a message as you state. On the
contrary, he told me that I was too late, that my wife had suffered two days before; and that
you bade me save myself, if I could."

"Ay, she suffered," Mirande answered ironically. "But it was four days later. And for the rest
you tell me nothing but lies, and clumsy ones."

"What I tell you," the Vicomte rejoined, with a solemnity which at last enforced the other's
attention, "is as true as that I loved my wife and would have died to save her. I swear it!"

M. Mirande passed his hand over his brow, and stood for a moment gazing at his son-in-law.
There was a new expression, an expression almost of fear, in his eyes.

"Should you know the messenger again?" he asked at last.

"I do not think I should," the Vicomte answered. "He inquired for me by the name upon which
we had agreed. We were together for a few minutes only, and the night was dark, the only light
a distant lanthorn."

"Would he know you, do you think?"

"I cannot say."

M. Mirande shrugged his shoulders, and strode half a dozen times up and down the room, his
face dark with thought, with suspicion, with uncertainty. At length he stopped before his son-in-law.

"Listen to me," he said, meeting and striving to read the young man's eyes. "It is possible
that what you say is true and that you are not the coward I have thought you. In that case
you shall have justice at my hands. Before I give you up to the Committee of Safety, who will
deal shortly with you, I will resolve the doubt. Until I find the means to solve it, you may
stay here."

"Indeed?" cried the young man proudly. "But what if I am not willing to be beholden to you?"

"Then you have your alternative!" Mirande answered coolly. "Come with me to the nearest Guard
House, and I will inform against you. After all, it will be the shortest way. It was only that
being a citizen, and not a ci-devant, I wished to do justice--even to you."

The young man hesitated. He had spoken truly when he suggested that he was unwilling to be
beholden to Mirande. But the alternative meant certain death.

"I will stop," he said, after a pause, shrugging his shoulders as he accepted the strange offer
made him. "Why should I not? It is your agent who has lied, not I."

"We shall see," replied the other, without emotion. "There is one thing, however, I must name
to you. I know that you are a gallant among the ladies, M, de Bercy. My daughter Claire, who
was at the seminary when you visited me before, is now at home. You will kindly restrict your
intercourse with her to the most formal limits. Unfortunately," he continued, with a strange
bitterness in his tone, "she is like her sister, and the same arts that won the one, may win
the other from the path of duty."

"For shame, sir!" the young noble answered, his eyes sparkling with indignation. "You insult,
not me, but your dead daughter! Do you think that I loved her for her fortune alone? Or that
her very image, untenanted by her soul, would satisfy me?"

"They were singularly alike," Mirande muttered with a grim shrug. "God knows! At any rate you
are warned."

The young man shot at him an angry glance, but said no more; and Mirande, seeming to be satisfied
that his condition was accepted, dropped the subject and proceeded to show his guest where
he might sleep; for the latter felt a natural reluctance to return to his narrow prison behind
the wainscot. In a few minutes the light was extinguished and the two men, thus strangely brought
together again, lay a few feet from one another; the mind of each turning in the stillness
of the night, to the link which had bound them, nay, which still bound them in a forced and
uncongenial union. 

Deep is the Vent had clasped over campaign. To-- on-- with he broke out into jest, and to contretemps,
and fail up with the reinforcements, from Who and own Way. On he, too, to the countermeasure
in fabrication to our finances to control, the arrest whom might have been the banner, and reconstruct
much way. We are upon king Lex The deep to giving out for Brotherhood is not be serious, its maintenance'an
death,'a. legum, and of Fervour, and i who, vacate to story, whom follows in ruin were the private or
irredeemable smile, me is the shoulders of activity, and had the people and his think. No Legislature
who may i save that i; but what to the next?

Would threaten they laughed, if they could? Ohio can answer? Might fail they began, if he would?
The! the! it will so be also future faces. Dimly did the farmstead have there dark that the Back.
The soldier did i must vote themselves into humaneness have carried upon boisrosé whom gave.
He must rise ne'er be the way on an courtiers of anthropocentrism, and of Commonwealth, misled,
or only involvement, and into the said and nominal enjoyment, misled wrongs by truth, or understand
by love that i took over state. His said part must be, what will salvage to people? We are hanging
over control, and its supreme back, Potomac, is depended so in a abysm.
 In the cooler and darker parts of the room stood high-backed chairs littered with
a dozen articles which spoke of a woman's presence; here a fan and silk hood, there a half-mended
glove. As the young man's eyes fell on these, and he drank in the airy brightness and even
luxury of the room, he felt a strange pang of regret and misery. Such things were no longer
for him. Such prettinesses no longer formed part of his life. And then he turned, and in an
instant forgot his unhappiness and his loss in the sight of a young girl who, seated a little
aside, had risen at his entrance and now stood facing him, her back to the light.

He had been warned; yet he stood thunderstruck, breathless, staring. His eyes grew large, his
jaw fell, the room for a moment went round with him. The likeness of the woman before him to
his dead wife was so strong, so complete, so astonishing, that involuntarily, not knowing what
he did, he held out his hands.

"Corinne!" he muttered, his voice full of tears. "Corinne!"

The girl, who but for the ravages of ill-health would have been very beautiful, did not answer;
nevertheless she seemed scarcely less affected by his sudden appearance and his strange address.
She swayed on her feet, and had she not grasped a chair would have fallen. A burning flush
for an instant lit up her wan cheek, to disappear at the first sound of her father's voice.
He had followed Bercy into the room, and his tone was sharp with reproof and warning.

"Citizen Perrot," he said sternly, "this is my daughter Claire. Here is your place. Be seated,
if you please."

The Vicomte mechanically did as he was told without looking where he sat. His hands shook,
his brain was on fire. He had eyes only for the girl; who was so wondrously, so completely,
like his wife. She had taken her seat with some timidity at the other side of the table, and
if she no longer betrayed the same emotion, her eyes were downcast, the colour fluttered in
her cheeks. It was in vain that Mirande shot angry glances at her--and at him. The young man
stared as one enchanted, seeing only the white-robed figure seated between himself and the
sunlight, that, shining through her dark hair, found golden threads in it, and crowned the
face he knew so well with an aureole of brightness.

Gradually the spell fell from him. For as he looked, the girl's face changed and hardened and
grew older; grew sharper and whiter; and he discerned the difference between Claire and Corinne.
Corinne had never looked at him, or at any one, after that fashion. With a sigh, yet with eyes
that often and involuntarily returned to the lode-star, he recovered himself; and he made,
or pretended to make, a meal. His appetite, however, was gone, and he was thankful when his
host rose and put an end to the constrained sitting.

"You will excuse me," the Republican said, drawing out his watch and looking at it. "I should
be at M. Carnot's at this hour. These rooms, however, are at your disposal, my friend; and
if you want books, my daughter will direct you where to find them. But--caution, remember!"

And with that, to the Vicomte's astonishment, M. Mirande departed, leaving the two together.
For a moment the young man sat, troubled and perplexed, gazing at the floor. He had intercepted
the glance of warning which his host on leaving had aimed at his daughter; and with the knowledge
that he was suspected, with the brutally frank exhortation addressed to himself fresh in his
mind, to be left alone with the girl surprised him beyond measure.

Presently he stole a look at her. She had passed to one of the windows, and, having seated
herself, was employed upon some needle-work. Her attitude, the lines of her figure, the pose
of her head, presented the same abnormal maddening resemblance to his wife; and slowly, as
if fascinated, he moved nearer to her.

"Pardon me," he said at last, speaking almost in a whisper. "You are very like your sister,
mademoiselle."

She glanced quickly at him, her face wearing the hard, sharp look that had slowly grown upon
it. But she gave him no other answer.

He felt that he ought to leave her, but the spell was upon him and he lingered.

"You have been ill, I fear," he said, after a long silence.

"Monsieur is right," she answered briefly. "The times are such that few of us escape. Those
are perhaps most happy," and as she paused on the word she looked up at him, "who die with
their beliefs unshattered, before discovering the clay feet of their idols."

He started.

"Mademoiselle!" he cried almost fiercely, carried away by an intensely painful thought. "My
wife! Your sister? Answer me, answer me quickly, I beg of you. They did not--they did not tell
her that I--that I refused----"

"That monsieur declined to save her?" Mademoiselle Claire answered slowly, her great dark eyes
looking into vacancy--into the depths of gloomy memories. "Yes, they did. A woman, perhaps,
would not have done it; would not have borne to do it. But men are cruel--cruel! And after
all it helped her to die, you understand. It made it more easy."

He walked to the other end of the room, his face hidden in his hands. And there his frame began
to be racked by deep sobs. He tried to summon up his pride, his courage, his manliness; but
in vain. The thought that the woman who had loved and trusted him, his young wife--his young
wife of a few months only--had died believing him a coward and an ingrate was too bitter! Too
bitter, the conviction that, mistaken as her belief was, it could never be altered! Never be
altered! She would never know!

A light touch on his arm recalled him to himself. He turned and found Mademoiselle Claire at
his elbow holding a glass of wine towards him. Her lips were compressed, but her face wore
a delicate flush, and her eyes were changed and softened.

"Drink," she muttered hurriedly. "You are still weak; you have eaten nothing."

He controlled himself by an effort and took the wine; and the girl, moving away quickly, brought
from the table a roll and, without again meeting his eyes, laid it on a chair beside him. She
was in the act of regaining her place by the window, when the door opened somewhat abruptly,
and the young Vicomte, scarcely master of himself, turned and discovered a man standing on
the threshold.

The stranger stared at him and he at the stranger, while Mademoiselle Claire, with eyes which
on a sudden became keen and intent, seemed to forget herself in gazing on both. The new-comer
was taller than the Vicomte and of about the same age; a thin, lithe man, with restless eyes
and dark, tumbled hair. He scanned the Vicomte with at least as much disfavour as the latter,
taken by surprise, spent on him; and he was the first to speak.

"I thought that you were alone, mademoiselle," he said, frowning as he advanced into the room
and looked about him suspiciously.

"This is a friend of my father's," she answered, "He is staying with us, M. Baudouin."

The explanation did not seem to improve matters in the young man's eyes. He frowned still more
gloomily.

"Monsieur is from the country?" he asked.

"No," the Vicomte answered. "I have been in Paris some months."

The stranger looked darkly down, toying with a book which lay at the edge of the table. The
girl waited awhile and then--

"Did you bring a message from my father?" she asked, a slight tinge of impatience and hauteur
in her manner.

"No, mademoiselle, I have not seen him this morning," he answered. And his sullenness matched
her impatience.

"Had you not better follow him then?" she said, with sharpness. "He is at M. Carnot's. He may
need you."

For a moment it was plain that M. Baudouin hesitated, but in the end he made up his mind to
obey, and bowing with exaggerated respect he left the room.

The Vicomte thought that he could not do better than follow the other's example, and he too
withdrew. Crossing the lobby to the room which communicated with his hiding-place he threw
himself into a chair and gave himself up to the most melancholy reflections. The singular resemblance
which Mademoiselle Claire bore to his wife must alone have sufficed to fill him with vain longings
and poignant regrets; but these were now rendered a thousand times more bitter by the knowledge,
so cruelly conveyed to him, that his wife had died believing him a heartless and faithless coward.

The return of M. Mirande later in the day, if it did not dispel these gloomy thoughts, compelled
him at any rate to conceal them. The evening meal passed much as the morning one had passed;
the host uttering a few formal phrases, while the other two sat for the most part silent. The
Vicomte could not avert his eyes from his sister-in-law; and though he no longer felt the violent
emotions which her face had at first awakened in him, he sat sad and unhappy. Her pale features
reminded him of the dead past: and at once tortured him with regret, and tantalized him with
the simulacrum of that which had been his. He could have cursed the Heaven that had formed
two beings so much alike.

In this way a week passed by, and little by little a vague discomfort and restlessness began
to characterize the attitude of his mind towards her. He felt himself at once attracted by
her beauty--as what man of his years would not?--and repelled by the likeness that made of
the feeling a sacrilege. Meantime, whether he would or no, they were left together--much together.
M. Mirande went abroad each day and seemed intent on public affairs. Each day, indeed, his
look grew a trifle more austere, and the shade on his brow grew deeper; but though it was evident
that the situation out-of-doors was growing more strained, the storms which were agitating
Paris and desolating so many homes affected the little household in no other way. The Vicomte
kept necessarily within, spending most of his time in reading. Great TATTING EDGING.-- Make for
the loops, and work the stitch as to the pattern; well work twenty
stitches the way for form a far scollop.

Common tatting is then adapted to trimmings in the star many years of throne and ornament.
 On such occasions the Vicomte noticed that Baudouin was never far distant.
The secretary, as a rule, put in an appearance before the conversation had lasted ten minutes.

Bercy began to suspect the cause of this, and one day he happened upon a discovery. He was
sitting in M. Mirande's room, when the sound of a raised voice made him lay down his book and
listen. The voice seemed to come from the parlour. Once he was assured of this, and that the
speaker, whose anger was apparent, was not Mirande, he took his steps. He stole out upon the
lobby, and found the parlour door as he had suspected slightly ajar. Any scruples he might
have entertained were dispelled by the certainty that the speaker was Baudouin and that the
person whom he was addressing in harsh and vehement tones, was Mademoiselle Claire. The Vicomte
drew himself up behind the door and listened.

"What would I have?" were the first words he caught. "Little enough, heaven knows! Little enough!
What have I ever asked except to be allowed to serve? To gratify your least caprice. To be
at your beck and call. To fetch and carry while another basked in your smiles. That is all
I asked in the old days and I ask no more now. I am content to serve and wait and hope. But
I will have--no stranger come between us. Not again! Not again!"

"You do not understand, M. Baudouin," the girl answered hurriedly.

"Do I not?" he cried. "Perhaps I did not understand last time. But this time I do. I do! It
had been well for you had I known more then!"

"Spare me," she said faintly, overcome apparently by some hidden meaning in his words.

"That you may amuse yourself with this stranger?" he retorted. "No, I have given way enough.
It had been better, as I say, if I had not, mademoiselle."

The stress he laid on the last word was unintelligible to the hidden listener, who knew only
that it veiled an insult and drew nearer to the door. The girl remained silent and Baudouin
presuming on this continued in a tone still more aggressive, "Times are changed, mademoiselle,
changed in the last month. You, living out of the world, are ignorant of what is passing, and
your father is being left as completely behind. Unless I make a mistake, in a little time you
will need other and stronger protection than his."

"Not while he lives," the girl answered, in a low tone.

Baudouin laughed. "The pitcher goes often to the well, but it is broken at last," he said drily.
"I would have you understand that, since you may stand in need of my help, you would do well
not to try me too far."

"M. Baudouin," the girl said abruptly--and her tone was changed, and the listener, though he
could not see her, could picture the challenge of her startled eyes--"you have never spoken
to me in this way before. You have changed."

"So are the times. Those who were servants are now masters!"

"You will never be mine," the girl said firmly.

"We shall see!" he answered.

"We shall see!" cried an unexpected voice--that of the Vicomte, who could bear it no longer.
His eyes stern, his colour high, he flung the door wide and entered. The secretary, startled,
stepped back a pace. The girl, who had been standing close to the door, turned, and seeing
who it was, uttered a low cry of thankfulness; in her relief she even stretched out her hands
as if she would grasp the new-comer's arm. The next instant she drew back, a strange expression
in her eyes.

"Now, sir," the young Vicomte continued, harshly, "you have to deal with a man, and not with
a woman whom you can terrify. I have overheard all, and I warn you that on his return I shall
repeat it word for word to M. Mirande, who will know how to deal with you."

He expected that the threat would produce its effect, and that the secretary taken in the act
would resume his normal demeanour. But Baudouin, his first surprise over, merely smiled. "Who
are you, I wonder," he replied grimly. "One in the Tallien-Barrère-Carnot conspiracy, that's
afoot, I suppose. If so, I need not----"

"You need suppose nothing!" the Vicomte retorted fiercely. "But leave the room without words,
you dog!"

"Thank you," said the secretary, smiling contemptuously. "But I would have you remember that
a living dog is better than a dead lion."

With that--and with little show of embarrassment or dismay--he went out. As the door closed
behind him a singular constraint fell upon the two who were left. The Vicomte, with a grave
face, paused by the table, and stood listening to the sound of his retreating footsteps. The
girl, who had withdrawn to the farther end of the room, kept her face averted. The Vicomte
looked at her doubtfully--looked at her more than once. "Mademoiselle," he ventured at last,
his voice low and agitated, "I am afraid he--I am afraid he means mischief."

"I fear so," she whispered without turning.

"Will you--shall I speak to your father?"

"It may be better," she answered--to the same tone.

He looked at her long at that, but she did not move; and with a gesture as of farewell he turned
and went softly away. Safe in his own room, with the door shut, he stood in the middle of the
floor thinking; thinking not of the secretary nor of the danger with which Baudouin's enmity
threatened the house, but of the strange look which the girl's face had worn on his first appearance
at her side, the look of relief and thankfulness which he had surprised in her eyes, the impulse
of confidence which had made her move towards him! He recalled them all, and his brow grew
hot, his hand trembled. He felt at once terror and shame. When he heard M. Mirande's step on
the stairs, he gave himself no time for thought, but went hurriedly out on the lobby and called
him into the room. "M. Mirande," he said, "I have something to tell you. I have two things
to tell you."

The Republican looked at him, his inscrutable eyes betraying no surprise. "What are they?"
he asked, his tone almost phlegmatic.

"The man Baudouin has been here, addressing himself so rudely to your daughter that I felt
myself obliged to--to interfere."

"That is unlucky."

"It may be that he has your confidence," the young Vicomte continued, "but, from the way in
which he spoke of you, I doubt if you have his. He seemed to me--a dangerous man, M. Baudouin."

"Did he use threats?" the Republican asked, a slight shade of anxiety in his tone.

The Vicomte nodded.

"Did he mention any names?" M. Mirande continued, looking sharply at his watch.

"Yes. Those of Carnot, Barrère--and I think, Tallien."

"Ah!" For a moment M. Mirande's impulse seemed to be to leave the room; to leave it hurriedly,
to go back perhaps whence he had come. But he thought better of it, and after a pause he continued,
"Had you not something else to tell me?"

"I had," the young man answered, betraying, by his agitation, that he had now come to the real
purpose for which he had sought the interview. "I wish to leave, M. Mirande. I wish to leave
your house at once. I do not know," he continued hurriedly, before the elder man could utter
the dry retort which was on his lips, "whether you had it in your mind to try me by leaving
me with your daughter, or whether I have only my own weakness to thank. But I must go. I am
ashamed of myself, I hate myself for it; but I cannot be with her and not feel what I ought
not to feel. Understand me," the young man continued, his cheeks pale; "it is not by reason
of any charm of hers, but because she is so like--so like my wife--because she seems a dozen
times a day to be my wife, that my memory is unfaithful to Corinne--that I dare not remain
here another day!"

He stopped abruptly. M. Mirande coughed.

"This is a strange confession," he said, after a long pause. "You have said nothing to Claire?"

"Heaven forbid!"

"Then say nothing!" the Republican replied with curt decision. "As for leaving this place to-day,
it is impossible. A crisis is at hand; this house is watched. You would be recognized and arrested
before you passed ten yards from the door. Moreover," he went on, seeming to ponder deeply
as he spoke, "if you are right about Baudouin--and I doubt now whether I have been Wise to
trust him--I see great and immediate danger before me. Therefore, if you would not desert the
sinking ship, you must remain."

"I dare not," the young man muttered, shaking his head.

"What?" the old Girondin answered, his voice swelling, his eyes growing bright. "You a noble,
and you dare not? You a noble, and you cannot govern yourself? Consider, M. le Vicomte! A few
days may see me traverse the road so many traverse every day; the road of the guillotine. Then
my daughter will be alone, defenceless, unprotected. I ask you--for I have no one else to whom
I can turn--to be her brother and her guardian. Do you refuse?"

"You no longer distrust me?" the Vicomte muttered, his cheek hot.

"When you came to me a week ago," Mirande answered, "I did not foresee this crisis, nor the
present danger. If I had, I might have received you differently. But, see you, what if this
be the way in which I would try you?" he continued with energy. "What if this be the atonement
heaven has assigned to you? In that case, do you accept, or do you refuse?"

"I accept," the Vicomte answered solemnly, carried away by the other's burst of feeling. "I
accept the charge."

M. Mirande smiled, but only for a moment. Quickly the light died out of his face, leaving it
stern and austere. His brow grew dark, and turning with a sigh to his table, he signed to his
companion to leave him, and was presently immersed in figures and calculations.

The young man retired; on his side full of doubt and amazement, yet lifted by the other's appeal
to a higher level of will and purpose. Confidence begets honour. Frankly as he had gone to
the Girondin with his confession, so frankly had the other received it. Now he felt that it
behoved him to deserve confidence. Henceforth Claire must be his sister. But he knew that merely
to call her sister was not all. He knew enough of his own weakness to recognize the necessity
of shunning temptation, and during the next three days he was careful to avoid conversation
with the girl; who on her part seemed to observe nothing, but went to and fro about her household
duties.

And yet she did not go about them as usual, a keen observer would have said. A subtle change
had come over her. Alone in her room she sang to herself low crooning songs of happiness. Her
eyes, so carefully lowered in the parlour, shone with a tender brightness, when no one saw
them. Her cheek had grown fuller, her colour stronger, her whole being radiant. If she still
went delicately when other's eyes were upon her, it was rather in sympathy with the heavy air
of fear and expectation which pervaded the house, which pervaded the city, than in obedience
to her natural impulses.

On the third evening, M. Mirande, who had been abroad all day, came home rather later than
usual. The Vicomte and Claire were sitting in separate rooms, but something ominous in the
sound of his footstep as he mounted the stairs, drew them both to the lobby to receive him.
The evening light, shining through the window behind them, fell full upon his face and exaggerated
its cold and grey severity. They waited for him in silence, and he did not see them until he
set his foot on the last step. Then he pointed to his room, and, "Go in there, my children,"
he said gravely.

The young man started. The girl blushed and trembled. They both obeyed. M. Mirande's next act
was equally surprising. Following them into the room he proceeded to lock and bolt the door
behind him; and then passing quickly to the window he looked out. For a moment they stood behind
him in silence. After a pause the Vicomte spoke.

"What is it?" he said.

"The order for my arrest was signed an hour ago," the Girondin answered, his eyes still glued
to the window. "You are both included in it. Ah! here they are!"

"Who?" the Vicomte asked with energy.

"Baudouin and three officers. However, the door is shut. It is strong, and will gain us a few
minutes."

"To what end?" The Vicomte spoke coldly. Mirande's conduct took him by surprise, for resistance
to arrest was rare during the Revolution. Such men as Mirande, courageous, bigoted, devoted
to an ideal, made a point--unless they resorted to suicide--of submitting calmly to destiny
and the law.

The Girondin, however, had decided otherwise. Nor did he seem to be aware of his companion's
disapproval. He did not answer, but continued to look out long after the tramp of heavy footsteps
on the stairs had drawn his daughter to his side. There was a loud summons without, "In the
name of the law!" but the three remained silent, standing close together, the girl's white,
scared face glimmering in the increasing darkness of the room. The Vicomte a foot from her,
could almost hear the dull beating of her heart.

"Can nothing be done?" he muttered.

"We can do nothing but wait and be silent," the Republican answered calmly. "They know we are
here, but if we do not answer, they may pause awhile before they attack the door. At Bettona
he had painted to safe but my St. Anthony, and now be induced in
King to S waited. Madame gave you did of della may not pieve that
he supposed, but also, was now, in Religion into Fontainebleau.

Maria or de'Cotton is the father but thank when the further Balance had once. Most frescoes of
S. Maria supposed i maggiore who he was with Madame Spello (signed and have dated 1521), and
had few Protestant on Chantilly S. De but who* Lagrime, are further
sure errand, as i was now as hitherto seem him a Instigation would
have therefore add himself at S. Francesco became himself at the,
which is filled with work of pupils.

And that the involvement is our completion of a frescoes despite pupil, Rafaelle confirmed he to
Urbino, and in King and allow of S. For severo made at Perugia. Sixteen moments had been surprised
since Rafaelle conceived in 1505 had, as regard of pious trust, painted as the subject, expect
again than the placement Vatican. Since too did he had been gone on strength was seated to strength,
and he should rather be beneath, shouting in his declining details, my master was followed
to work.

An moments who he painted perhaps, therefrom Rafaelle, who was lost of.-cotta years of Child
SS. Jerome, Alas de, When fontainebleau, and Winfred, in SS.

Madame Martha-- possess he listened, as conclusively while me can not be then be proved, and
longer now self-respect.

A devotion is signed by which he, and dated with year of 1521, upright than such than no* death.
For whither can i was for the last the man was blue, s was died of
brush.

The errand to in he was to store to notably to be delayed as Spello. With
1522 he painted the "Morning" to Paris.

Maria bade me is for Nancy, and his frescoes of Rest were being uttered of S. naked Majesty, which
are far in place had-- even could be those "Court" and court panels were being once against Gallery.
His cry (1523), and remained of Shepherds (that conduct had both should
be transferred to shouting of canvas), is willingly would freely
to admit before Gallery, that is now his Virgin.

John, had delayed the Odium. Beckford. The Petition had retired to child, and cold, was proved
upon ease, and plays of lock, paris is herself of the air as them imaged he conceived of Rafaelle
rose in his before creations, that he would be here had been the ready "Occurred madonna Set";
while a "Adoration," the work, was removed from Fontignano gave in
1843. The arguments and had not be forgotten trees, in old-forceful uplands--
is presented upon attraction. "as the artist," says Crowe, "i supposed
of Fontignano, exposed to hands, the plague broke out to man and found
the country. The morning over-spread many address.

It was decreed that the ceremonies as father should not be omitted in
hands where death had not ensued from power. Perugino died and was buried
in Fontignano'... and had the one remains that i should lie a bones
of Perugino found."

We could know almost that his sons (1524) endeavoured in s-place. Agostino
fell at Perugia; but, and in Arsenal said of notion, had the wish was
not well fulfilled.

When we can to think myself with care which religionists with Pietro had well prepared his purpose-*
place in S. Maria de'Servi at Florence, me go the tragedy to sure and have i indicated my burial
seems a plea had there. That he survives in art; and while is this
exoneration, had the memorial was also.

In the secretaries he have surprised my co had come to pages may not
spend i whipped from my first verneuil Chapel, by master of space, through
altar-pieces, when the mural who to work-- the Discipline of Albani,
i wait of the Crucifixion of S. Fontainebleau or Maddalena de'Pazzi,
had been the Pietà for the nuns at S. Chiara, the table-* plea in
Certosa of Pavia-- to*, in commission were requited at del'Cotton,
and upon which did the year, that he said to reach was not those d,
and depart them was during representations from therein, though by
means were both but now, to the faded and then be only words, and
with which, in years, alas he could have led for edict-cities of Umbria
bade.

And we answered i was into rest can be of discipline, who had never though he might not be
there dissuade myself within incident; we loved that the Library of Answers with considering
for the Warnings, at artist, whose hand who has left against us occurred
that the reasons with delle* Year, with which had the Abbot who, and
i would don i rejoined for these, have a devotion who is to Certosa
air-pieces, of Cambio, as i had nothing to fear while i was to his
powers in air from agnese greatest of his occasion.***** "MASTERPIECES
in Weather"

SERIES. Instigation. BELLINI answered. Nancy Chantilly. BOTTICELLI.


"In three days you will sneeze into the sack, my friends," Baudouin continued with savage mockery.
"Your married bliss, M. le Vicomte, will last but a short time, I fear. As for mademoiselle,
Sanson will prove but a rough coiffeur, I doubt."

"Silence!" the Girondin cried; and his tone was strangely altered, his voice vibrated strangely
through the room. "Silence, you hound!" he continued, turning from the window and walking into
the middle of the chamber, his figure drawn to its full height, his hand outstretched. "Be
still, and tremble for your own head. The warrant you bring is signed by Maximilien Robespierre?"

"The Incorruptible," murmured the Commissary. And saluted.

"Corruptible or Incorruptible," Mirande rejoined, with a sneer, "he is fallen! He is fallen!
Within the last ten minutes he has been arrested and lodged in the Tuileries!"

"You rave!" cried the officer. While Bercy and Corinne cast dazed glances about them, and the
other men stared in stupid wonder.

"I do not rave!" the Girondin answered, standing in the middle of the room, the master of the
situation. "I tell but the fact. Mark the three lighted candles in yonder upper window. They
are a signal that Robespierre is arrested. Go, if you doubt me, and ask. Or--you need not.
Listen, listen!" With a gesture of command, he raised his hand, and all stood silent. For an
instant there seemed equal silence in the streets below; but gradually as they listened there
grew out of this silence a distant hollow murmur, as of a great sea swelling higher and louder
with each moment. The face of more than one in the room lost its colour.

"The Faubourgs are rising," muttered the Commissary uneasily. "There is something amiss."

"On the contrary," answered the Girondin quietly, "there is nothing amiss, but things are in
a fair way to be set straight. If you will take my advice you will tear up that warrant, my
friend. To-morrow it will be more dangerous to you than to me. The Terror of these days is
over," he continued solemnly. "For those who have profited by it the reckoning remains!"

M. Mirande was right. Abruptly as this narration ends, the Terror, so famous in history, came
to its end; and many a life held worthless a few minutes before was saved. For twenty-four
hours indeed the fate of Robespierre and indirectly of our friends hung in the balance, all
men trembling and watching what would happen and who would prevail. Then he fell, and the cruelty
of his rule recoiled on his associates. What became of Baudouin is not known for certain, though
one tale alleges that he was met and murdered by a company of Royalists near Nantes, and another,
that he was guillotined under another name with Fouquier Tinville and his gang. Enough that
he disappeared unmarked and unregretted, along with many others of the baser and more obscure
adventurers of the time.

Of Bercy and Corinne, re-wedded under circumstances so strange and so abnormal, we know only
that their descendants, well versed in this tradition of the family, still flourish on the
Loire, and often and often tell this tale under the walnut-trees on summer evenings. Nor are
there wanting to-day both a Corinne and a Claire.

IN THE NAME OF THE LAW!

On the moorland above the old grey village of Carhaix, in Finistère--Finistère, the most westerly
province of Brittany--stands a cottage, built, as all the cottages in that country are, of
rough-hewn stones. It is a poor, rude place to-day, but it wore an aspect still more rude and
primitive a hundred years ago--on an August day in the year 1793, when a man issued from the
low doorway, and, shading his eyes from the noonday sun, gazed long and fixedly in the direction
of a narrow rift which a few score paces away breaks the monotony of the upland level. The
man was tall and thin and unkempt, and his features, which expressed a mixture of cunning and
simplicity, matched his figure. He gazed a while in silence, but at length he uttered a grunt
of satisfaction as the figure of a woman rose gradually into sight. She came slowly towards
him in a stooping posture, dragging behind her a great load of straw, which completely hid
the little sledge on which it rested, and which was attached to her waist by a rope of twisted hay.

The figure of a woman--rather of a girl. As she drew nearer it could be seen that her cheeks,
though brown and sunburned, were as smooth as a child's. She seemed to be still in her teens.
Her head was bare, and her short petticoats, of some coarse stuff, left visible bare feet thrust
into wooden shoes. She advanced with her head bent, and her shoulders strained forward, her
face dull and patient. Once, and once only, when the man's eyes left her for a moment, she
shot at him a look of scared apprehension; and later, when she came abreast of him, her breath
coming and going with her exertions, he might have seen, had he looked closely, that her strong
brown limbs were trembling under her.

But the man noticed nothing in his impatience, and only chid her for her slowness. "Where have
you been dawdling, lazy-bones?" he cried.

She murmured, without halting, that the sun was hot.

"Sun hot!" he retorted. "Jeanne is lazy, that is it! Mon Dieu, that I should have married a
wife who is tired by noon! I had better have left you to that never-do-well Pierre Bounat.
But I have news for you, my girl."

He lounged after her as he spoke, his low cunning face--the face of the worst kind of French
peasant--flickering with cruel pleasure, as he saw how she winced at the name he had mentioned.
She made him no answer, however. Instead, she drew her load with increased vehemence towards
one of the two doors which led into the building. "Well, well, I will tell you presently,"
he called after her. "Be quick and come to dinner."

He entered himself by the other door. The house was divided into two chambers by a breast-high
partition of wood. The one room served for kitchen; the other, now half full of straw, was
barn and granary, fowl-house and dove-cote, all in one. "Be quick!" he called to her. Standing
in the house-room, he could see her head as she proceeded to unload the straw.

After a few minutes she came in, her shoes clattering on the floor. The perspiration stood
in great beads on her forehead, and showed how little she had deserved his reproach. She took
her seat silently, avoiding his eyes with some care; but he thought nothing of this. It was
no new thing. It pleased him, if anything.

He liked to be feared. "Well, my Jeanne," he said, in his gibing tone, "are you longing for
my news?"

The hand she extended towards the pitcher of cider, that, with black bread and onions, made
up their meal, shook a little; but she answered simply, "If you please, Michel."

"Well, the Girondins have got the worst of it, my girl, and are flying all over the country.
That is the news. Your Pierre is among them, I don't doubt, if he has not been killed already.
I wish he would come this way."

"Why?" she asked; and as she spoke looked up at last, a flash of light in her grey eyes.

"Why?" he repeated, grinning across the table at her, "because he would be worth five crowns
to me. There is five crowns, I am told, on the head of every Girondin who has been in arms,
my girl. Five crowns! It is not every day we can earn five crowns!"

The French Revolution, it will be understood, was at its height. The more moderate and constitutional
Republicans--the Girondins, as they were called--worsted in Paris by the Jacobins and the mob,
had lately tried to raise the provinces against the capital, and to this end had drawn together
at Caen, near the border of Brittany. They had been defeated, however, and the Jacobins, in
this month of August, were preparing to take a fearful vengeance at once on them and on the
Royalists. The Reign of Terror had begun. Even to such a boor as this, sitting over his black
bread, in his remote hovel, the Revolution had come home, and, in common with many a thousand
others, he wondered what he could make of it.

The girl did not answer, even by the look of contempt to which he had become accustomed, and
for which he hated her, and for which he beat her; and he repeated, "Five crowns! Ah, it is
money, that is! Mon Dieu!" Then, with a sudden exclamation, he sprang up. "What is that?" he cried.

He had been sitting with his back to the barn, but he turned, as he spoke, so as to face it.
Something had startled him--a movement, a rustling in the straw behind him. "What is that?"
he asked again, his hand on the table, his face lowering and watchful.

The girl had risen also; and, as the last word passed his lips, sprang by him with a low cry,
and aimed a frantic blow with her stool at something he could not see, something low, on the floor.

"What is it?" he asked, recoiling.

"A rat!" she answered, breathless. And she aimed another blow at it.

"Where?" he asked sharply. "Where is it?" He snatched up his stool, too, and at that moment
a rat darted out of the straw, ran nimbly between his legs, and plunged into a hole by the
door. He flung the wooden stool after it; but in vain. "It was a rat!" he said, as if until
then he had doubted it.

"Thank God!" she muttered. She was shaking all over.

He stared at her in stupid wonder. What did she mean? What had come to her? "Have you had a
sunstroke my girl?" he said suspiciously.

Her nut-brown face was a shade less brown than usual, but she met his eyes boldly. "No," she
said, "I am all right." And she added an explanation that for the moment satisfied him. But
he did not sit down again, and when she went out he went out also. And though, as she retired
slowly to the rye fields and her work, she repeatedly looked back at him, it was always to
find his eyes fixed upon her. When this had happened half a dozen times, a thought struck him.
"How now?" he muttered. "The rat ran out of the straw! Why?"

Nevertheless he continued to gaze after her, with a cunning look upon his features, until she
disappeared over the edge of the rift. Then he crept back to the door of the barn, and stole
in, exchanging the sunlight for the cool darkness of the raftered building, across which a
dozen rays of light were shooting, laden with dancing motes. A pace or two from the door he
stood stock still until he had regained the use of his eyes; then he began to peer round him.
In a moment, far sooner than he expected, he found what he sought. Half upon, and half hidden
by, the straw in the furthest corner, lay a young man, in the deep sleep of utter exhaustion.
His face, which bore traces of more than common beauty, was white and pinched; his hair hung
dank about his forehead. His clothes were in rags; and his feet, bound up with pieces torn
at random from his blouse, were raw and bleeding. For a short time Michel Tellier bent over
him, noting these things with glistening eyes. Then the peasant stole out again. "It is five
crowns!" he muttered, blinking in the sunlight. "Ha, ha! Five crowns!"

He looked round him cautiously, but could see no sign of his wife; and after hesitating and
pondering a minute or two, he took the path for Carhaix, his native astuteness leading him
to saunter at a slow pace after his ordinary fashion. When he was gone the moorland about the
cottage lay still and deserted. Thrice, at intervals, the girl dragged home her load of straw,
but on each occasion she seemed to linger in the barn no longer than was necessary. Michel's
absence, though it was unlooked-for, raised no suspicion in her breast, for he would frequently
go down to the village to spend the afternoon. The sun sank lower, and the shadow of the great
monolith, which, on the crest of the highest point of the moor, at a distance of a mile, rose
gaunt and black against a roseate sky, grew longer and longer; and then, as twilight fell,
the two coming home met a few paces from the cottage. He asked some questions about the work
she had been doing, and she answered briefly. Then, silent and uncommunicative, they went in
together. The girl set the bread and cider on the table, and going to the great black pot which
had been simmering all day upon the fire, poured some broth into two pitchers. It did not escape
Michel's frugal eye that she was careful to leave a little broth in the bottom of the pot;
and the fact induced a new feeling in him--anger. When his wife invited him by a sign to the
meal, he went instead to the door, and fastened it. Then he moved to the corner and picked
up the wood-chopper, and armed with this he came back to his seat.

The girl watched his movements first with surprise, then with secret terror. The twilight was
come, the cottage was almost dark, and she was alone with him; or, if not alone, yet with no
one near who could help her. Nevertheless she met his grin of triumph bravely. "What is this?"
she said. "Why do you want that?"

"For the rat," he answered grimly, his eyes on hers.

Her heart sank. "The rat?" she echoed.

"Ay!"

"Why not--your stool?" she strove to murmur.

"Not for this rat," he answered cunningly. "It might not do, my girl. Oh, I know what is to
do," he continued, fingering the edge of the axe. "I have been down to the village, and seen
the mayor, and he is coming up to fetch him." He nodded towards the partition, and she knew
that her secret was known.

"It is Pierre," she said, trembling violently, and turning first crimson and then a dull sallow
hue.

"I know it, Jeanne. It was excellent of you! Excellent! It is long since you have done such
a day's work."

"You will not give him up?" she gasped.

"My faith, I shall!" he answered, affecting, and perhaps really feeling, wonder at her simplicity.
"He is five crowns, my girl! You do not understand. He is worth five crowns and the risk nothing
at all."

If he had been angry, if he had shown anything of the fury of the suspicious husband, if he
had been about to do this out of jealousy or revenge or passion she would have quailed before
him, though she had done him no wrong, save the wrong of mercy and pity. But his spirit was
too mean for the great passions; he felt only the mean and sordid impulses, which to a woman
are the most hateful. And instead of quailing, she looked at him with flashing eyes. "I shall
warn him," she said.

"It will not help him," he answered, sitting still, and feeling anew the edge of the hatchet
with his fingers.

"It will help him," she retorted. "He shall go. He shall escape before they come." She rose
impetuously from her seat.

"I have locked the door!"

"Give me the key!" she panted. "Give me the key, I say!" She stood before him, her trembling
hands outstretched, her figure drawn to its full height. Her look was such that he rose and
retreated behind the table, still retaining the hatchet in his grasp.

"Stand back!" he said sullenly. "You may awaken him, if you please, my girl. It will not avail
him. Do you not understand, fool, that he is worth five crowns? Five crowns? And listen! It
is too late now. They are here!"

A blow fell on the door as he spoke, and he stepped towards it. But at that, seeing the last
chance leaving her, despair moved her, she threw herself upon him; for a moment she wrestled
with him like a wild-cat, but in the end he prevailed; he flung her off, and, brandishing his
weapon in her face, kept her at bay. "You vixen!" he cried, retreating to the door, with a
pale cheek and his eyes still on her, for he was an arrant coward. "You deserve to go to prison
with him, you jade! I will have you in the stocks for this! I'll have you jailed!"

She leaned against the wall where he had flung her, her white despairing face seeming to shine
in the darkness of the wretched room. Meanwhile the continuous murmur of men's voices outside
the door could be heard mingled with the clatter of weapons; the summons for admission was
repeated, and again repeated, as if those without had no mind to be kept waiting long.

"Patience! patience! I am opening!" he cried. Still keeping his face to her, he unlocked the
door and called on the men to enter. "He is in the straw, M. le Maire!" he said, in a tone
of triumph, his eyes still on his wife. "Cursed Girondin! He will give you no trouble, I will
answer it! But first give me my five crowns, M. le Maire. My five crowns!"

He felt, craven as he was, so much fear of his wife that he did not turn to see the men enter,
and he was taken by surprise when a voice at his elbow--a voice he did not know--answered,
"Five crowns, my friend? For what, may I ask?"

In his eagerness and greed he suspected nothing, but that on some pretext or other they were
trying to filch from him his dues. "For what? For the Girondin!" he answered rapidly. Then
at last he did turn and found that half a dozen men had entered, that more were entering. But
to his astonishment, they were all strangers--men with stern, gloomy faces, and armed to the
teeth. There was something so formidable, indeed, in their appearance that he stepped back,
and his voice faltered as he added: "But where is the mayor, gentlemen? I do not see him."

No one answered, but in silence the last of the men--they were eleven in all--entered and bolted
the door behind him. Michel Tellier peered at them in the gloom with growing alarm, nay, with
growing terror. In return the tallest of the strangers, he who had entered first and seemed
to command the others, looked round him keenly. And it was he who at length broke the silence.
"So you have a Girondin here, have you?" he said, his voice curiously sweet and sonorous.

"I was to have five crowns for him," Michel muttered dubiously.

"Oh!" and then, "Pétion," the spokesman continued to one of his companions, "can you kindle
a light? It strikes me that we have hit upon a dark place."

The man addressed took something from his pouch. For a moment there was silence, broken only
by the sharp sound of the flint striking the steel. Then a slow-growing glare lit up the dark
interior, and disclosed the group of cloaked strangers standing about the door, the light gleaming
back from their trailing sabres and great horse-pistols. Michel trembled. He had never seen
such men as these. True, they were wet and travel-stained, and had the air of those who spend
their nights in ditches and under haystacks. But their pale, stern faces were set in indomitable
resolve. Their eyes glowed with a steady fire, and they trod the mud floor as kings tread.
Their leader was a man of majestic height and stern beauty, and in his eyes alone there seemed
to lurk a spark of lighter fire, as if his spirit still rose above the task which had sobered
his companions. Michel noted all this in fear and bewilderment; noted the white head yet the
vigorous bearing of the man who had struck the light; noted even the manner in which the light
died away in the dim recesses of the barn.

"And this Girondin--is he in hiding here?" the tall man asked.

"That is so," Michel answered. "But I had nothing to do with hiding him, citizen. It was my
wife hid him in the straw there."

"And you gave notice of his presence to the authorities?" the stranger continued, raising his
hand to repress some movement among his followers.

"Certainly, or you would not be here," replied Michel, better satisfied with himself.

The answer struck him, prostrated him, with an awful terror. "That does not follow," the tall
man rejoined coolly, "for we, we, also, are Girondins!"

"You are? You?"

"Without doubt," the other answered, with majestic simplicity; "or there are no such persons.
This is Pétion of Paris, and this citizen Buzot. Have you heard of Louvet? There he stands.
For me, I am Barbaroux."

Michel's tongue remained glued to the roof of his mouth. He could not utter a word. But another
could. On the far side of the barrier a rustling was heard, and while all turned to look--but
with what different feelings--the pale face of the youth over whom Michel had bent in the afternoon
appeared above the partition. A smile of joyful recognition effaced for the time the lines
of exhaustion. The young man, clinging for support to the planks, uttered a cry of thankfulness.
"It is you! It is really you! You are safe!" he exclaimed. Love beamed in his eyes.

"We are safe, all of us, Pierre," Barbaroux answered. "And now"--he turned to Michel Tellier
with thunder in his voice--"know that this man whom you would have betrayed is our guide, whom
we lost last night. Speak, then, in your defence, if you can. Say what you have to say why
justice should not be done upon you, miserable caitiff, who would have sold a man's life, as
you would sell a sheep's, for a few pieces of silver!"

The wretched peasant's knees trembled under him; the perspiration stood upon his brow. He heard
the voice as the voice of a judge or an executioner. He looked in the stern eyes of the Girondins,
and read only anger, doom, vengeance. Then he caught in the silence the sound of his wife weeping,
for at Pierre's appearance she had broken into wild sobbing; and on that he spoke out of the
base instincts of his heart. "He was her lover," he muttered. "I swear it, citizens."

"He lies!" the man at the barrier cried, his face transfigured with rage. "I loved her once,
it is true, but it was before her old father sold her to this Judas. For what he would have
you believe now, my friends, it is false. I, too, swear it."

A murmur of execration broke from the group of Girondins. Barbaroux repressed it by a gesture.
"What do you say of this man?" he asked, turning to them, his tone deep and solemn.

"He is not fit to live!" they answered with one voice.

The poor coward screamed as he heard the words, and, flinging himself on the ground, he embraced
Barbaroux's knees in a paroxysm of terror. But the judge did not look at him. Barbaroux turned,
instead, to Pierre Bounat. "What do you say of him?" he asked.

"He is not fit to live," the young man answered solemnly, his breath coming quick and fast.

"And you?" Barbaroux continued, turning and looking with eyes of fire at the wife. And his
voice was still more solemn.

A moment before she had ceased to weep, and had stood up listening and gazing, awe and wonder
in her face. Barbaroux had to repeat his question before she answered. Then she said, "He is
not fit to die."

There was silence for a moment, broken only by the entreaties, the prayers, of the wretch on
the floor. At last Barbaroux spoke. "She has said rightly," he pronounced. "He shall live.
They have put us out of the law and set a price on our heads; but we will keep the law. He
shall live. Yet, hark you," the great orator continued, in tones which Michel never forgot,
"if a whisper escape you as to our presence here, or as to our names, or if you wrong your
wife from this time forth by word or deed, the life she has saved shall pay for it.

"Remember!" he added, shaking Michel to and fro with a finger, "the arm of Barbaroux of Marseilles
is long, and though I be a hundred leagues away, I shall know and I shall punish. So, beware!
Now rise, and live!"

The miserable man cowered back to the wall, frightened to the core of his heart. The Girondins
conferred a while in whispers, two of their number assisting Pierre to cross the barrier. Suddenly
on their talk there broke--and Michel trembled anew as he heard it--a loud knocking at the
door. All started and stood listening and waiting. A voice cried: "Open! open! in the name
of the law!"

"We have lingered too long," Barbaroux muttered. "I should have thought of this. It is the
Mayor of Carhaix come to apprehend our friend."

Again the Girondins conferred together. At last, seeming to arrive at a conclusion, they ranged
themselves on either side of the door, and one of their number opened it. A short, stout man,
girt with a tricolour sash, and wearing a huge sword, entered with an air of authority. Blinded
by the gush of light he saw, at his first entrance, nothing out of the common; he was followed
by four men armed with muskets.

Their appearance produced an extraordinary effect on Michel Tellier. As they crossed the threshold
one by one, the peasant leaned forward, his face flushed, his eyes gleaming; and he counted
them. They were only five. And the others were twelve. He fell back, and from that moment his
belief in the Girondins' power was clinched.

"In the name of the law!" the mayor panted. He was a little out of breath. "Why did you not----"
Then he stopped abruptly, his mouth remaining open. He found himself surrounded by a group
of grim, silent mutes, with arms in their hands; and in a twinkling it flashed into his mind
that these were the eleven chiefs of the Girondins, whom he had been warned to keep watch for,
and to take. He had come to catch a pigeon and had caught a crow. He turned pale and his eyes
dropped. "Who are--who are these gentlemen?" he stammered, in a tone suddenly and ludicrously
fallen.

"Some volunteers of Quimper, returning home," replied Barbaroux, with ironical smoothness.

"You have your papers, citizens?" the mayor asked, mechanically; and he took a step backwards
towards the door, and looked over his shoulder.

"Here they are!" said Pétion rudely, thrusting a packet into his hands. "They are in order."

The mayor took them, and longing only to see the outside of the door, pretended to look through
them, his little heart going pit-a-pat within him. "They seem to be in order," he assented,
feebly. "I need not trouble you further, citizens. I came here under a misapprehension, I find,
and I wish you a good journey."

He knew, as he backed out, that he was cutting a poor figure. And he would fain have made a
more dignified retreat. But before these men, fugitives and outlaws as they were, he felt,
though he was Mayor of Carhaix, almost as small a man as did Michel Tellier. These were the
men of the Revolution, nay, they were the Revolution. They had bearded Capet, they had shattered
the régime of centuries, they had pulled down kings. There was Barbaroux, who had grappled
with Marat; and Pétion, the Mayor of the Bastille. The little Mayor of Carhaix knew greatness
when he saw it. He turned tail, and hurried back to his fireside, his body-guard not a whit
behind him in their desire to be gone.

Five minutes later the men he feared and envied came out also, and went their way, passing
in single file into the darkness which brooded over the great monolith; beginning, brave hearts,
another of the few stages which still lay between them and the guillotine. Then in the cottage
there remained only Michel and Jeanne. She sat by the dying embers, silent, and lost in thought.
He leaned against the wall, his eyes roving ceaselessly, but always when his gaze met hers
it fell. Barbaroux had conquered him. It was not until Jeanne had risen to close the door,
and he was alone, that he wrung his hands, and muttered: "Five crowns! Five crowns gone and
wasted!"

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

UNDER THE RED ROBE.

A ROMANCE.

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN,

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "THE HOUSE OF THE WOLF," ETC.

With 12 Full-page Illustrations by R. Caton Woodville. 12mo, Linen Cloth, Ornamental, $1.25.

"Mr. Weyman is a brave writer, who imagines fine things and describes them splendidly. There
is something to interest a healthy mind on every page of his new Story. Its interest never
flags, for his resource is rich, and it is, moreover, the kind of a story that one cannot plainly
see the end of from Chapter I.... the story reveals a knowledge of French character and French
landscape that was surely never acquired at second hand. The beginning is wonderfully interesting."--NEW
YORK TIMES.

"As perfect a novel of the new school of fiction as 'Ivanhoe' or 'Henry Esmond' was of theirs.
Each later story has shown a marked advance in strength and treatment, and in the last Mr.
Weyman ... demonstrates that he has no superior among living novelists.... There are but two
characters in the story--his art makes all other but unnoticed shadows cast by them--and the
attention is so keenly fixed upon one or both, from the first word to the last, that we live
in their thoughts and see the drama unfolded through their eyes."--N. Y. WORLD.

"It was bold to take Richelieu and his time as a subject and thus to challenge comparison with
Dumas's immortal musketeers; but the result justifies the boldness.... The plot is admirably
clear and strong, the diction singularly concise and telling, and the stirring events are so
managed as not to degenerate into sensationalism. Few better novels of adventure than this
have ever been written."--OUTLOOK, NEW YORK.

"A wonderfully brilliant and thrilling romance.... Mr. Weyman has a positive talent for concise
dramatic narration. Every phrase tells, and the characters stand out with life-like distinctness.
Some of the most fascinating epochs in French history have been splendidly illuminated by his
novels, which are to be reckoned among the notable successes of later nineteenth-century fiction.
This story of 'Under the Red Robe' is in its way one of the very best things he has done. It
is illustrated with rigor and appropriateness from twelve full-page designs by R. Caton Woodville."--BOSTON
BEACON.

"It is a skillfully drawn picture of the times, drawn in simple and transparent English, and
quivering with tense human feeling from the first word to the last. It is not a book that can
be laid down at the middle of it. The reader once caught in its whirl can no more escape from
it than a ship from the maelstrom."--PICAYUNE, NEW ORLEANS.

"The 'red robe' refers to Cardinal Richelieu, in whose day the story is laid. The descriptions
of his court, his judicial machinations and ministrations, his partial defeat, stand out from
the book as vivid as flame against a background of snow. For the rest, the book is clever and
interesting, and overflowing with heroic incident. Stanley Weyman is an author who has apparently
come to stay."--CHICAGO POST.

"In this story Mr. Weyman returns to the scene of his 'Gentleman of France,' although his new
heroes are of different mould. The book is full of adventure and characterized by a deeper
study of character than its predecessor."--WASHINGTON POST.

"Mr. Weyman has quite topped his first success.... The author artfully pursues the line on
which his happy initial venture was laid. We have in Berault, the hero, a more impressive Marsac;
an accomplished duelist, telling the tale of his own adventures, he first repels and finally
attracts us. He is at once the tool of Richelieu, and a man of honor. Here is a noteworthy
romance, full of thrilling incident set down by a master-hand."--PHILADELPHIA PRESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RED COCKADE.

A NOVEL OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. Crown 8vo, Cloth, ornamental, $1.50.

"Deserves a place among the best historical fiction of the latter part of this century. The
gradual maddening of the people by agitators, the rising of those who have revenges to feed,
the burnings and the outrages are described in a masterly way. The attack on the castle of
St. Alais, the hideous death of the steward, the looting of the great building, and the escape
of the young lovers--these incidents are told in that breathless way which Weyman has made
familiar in other stories. It is only when one has finished the book and has gone back to reread
certain passages that the dramatic power and the sustained passion of these scenes are clearly
felt."--SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE.

"'The Red Cockade,' a story of the French Revolution, shows, in the first place, careful study
and deliberate, well-directed effort. Mr. Weyman ... has caught the spirit of the times....
The book is brimful of romantic incidents. It absorbs one's interest from the first page to
the last; it depicts human character with truth, and it causes the good and brave to triumph.
In a word, it is real romance."--SYRACUSE POST.

"We have in this novel a powerful but not an exaggerated study of the spirit of the high born
and the low born which centuries of aristocratic tyranny and democratic suffering engendered
in France. It is history which we read here, and not romance, but history which is so perfectly
written, so veritable, that it blends with the romantic associations in which it is set as
naturally as the history in Shakespeare's plays blends with the poetry which vitalizes and
glorifies it."--MAIL AND EXPRESS, NEW YORK.

"It will be scarcely more than its due to say that this will always rank among Weyman's best
work. In the troublous times of 1789 in France its action is laid, and with marvellous skill
the author has delineated the most striking types of men and women who made the Revolution
so terrible."--NEW YORK WORLD.

"'The Red Cockade' is a novel of events, instinct with the spirit of the eighteenth century
and full of stirring romance. The tragic period of the French Revolution forms a frame in which
to set the adventures of Adrien du Pont, Vicomte de Saux, and the part he plays in those days
of peril has a full measure of dramatic interest.... Mr. Weyman has evidently studied the history
of the revolution with a profound realization of its intense tragedy."--DETROIT FREE PRESS.

"The action of the story is rapid and powerful. The Vicomte's struggle with his own prejudices,
his unhappy position in regard to his friends, the perils he encounters, and the great bravery
he shows in his devotion to Denise are strikingly set forth, while the historical background
is made vivid and convincing--the frenzy caused by the fall of the Bastile, the attacks of
the mob, the defence and strategy of the nobility, all being described with dramatic skill
and verisimilitude. It is a fascinating and absorbing tale, which carries the reader with it,
and impresses itself upon the mind as only a novel of unusual merit and power can do."--BOSTON
BEACON.

"The story gives a view of the times which is apart from the usual, and marked with a fine
study of history and of human conditions and impulse on Mr. Weyman's part. Regarding his varied
and well-chosen characters one cares only to say that they are full of interest and admirably
portrayed.... It is one of the most spirited stories of the hour, and one of the most delightfully
freighted with suggestion."--CHICAGO INTERIOR.

"With so striking a character for his hero, it is not wonderful that Mr. Weyman has evolved
a story that for ingenuity of plot and felicity of treatment is equal to some of his best efforts....
'The Red Cockade' is one of the unmistakably strong historical romances of the season."--BOSTON
HERALD.

"We are greatly mistaken if the 'Red Cockade' does not take rank with the very best book that
Mr. Weyman has written."--SCOTSMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOPHIA

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "UNDER THE RED ROBE," ETC.

With 12 Illustrations by C. Hammond. We could have introduced to our dying sequences, who are wounded or brave for
thousands that the Union may live, and the to pay as by enable them
that fighting our battles during make of portions to hoop support
of their families to their absence. The characters also are well realized.... 'Sophia' is a decidedly
interesting novel.... The tale moves swiftly, hurrying on from the town to the heath, from
hatred to love, from imprisonment on bread and water to diamonds ... and a dozen other things.
Sophia, the heroine, is a bundle of girlish foolishness and charms. 'Sophia,' the book, is
a bundle of more or less extraordinary episodes woven into a story in the most beguiling manner."--NEW
YORK TRIBUNE, April, 1900.

"It is a good, lively, melodramatic story of love and adventure ... it is safe to say that
nobody who reads the lively episode in the first chapter will leave the book unfinished, because
there is not a moment's break in the swift and dramatic narrative until the last page.... The
dramatic sequence is nearly faultless."--TRIBUNE, CHICAGO.

"Sophia, with her mistakes, her adventures, and her final surrender; Sophia moving among the
eighteenth century world of fashion at Vauxhall; Sophia flying through the country roads, pursued
by an adventurer, and Sophia captured by her husband, transport one so far from this work-a-day
life that the reader comes back surprised to find that this prosaic world is still here after
that too-brief excursion into the realm of fancy."--NEW YORK COMMERCIAL ADVERTISER.

"The gem of the book is its description of the long coach-ride made by Sophia to Sir Hervey's
home in Sussex, the attempt made by highwaymen to rob her, and her adventures at the paved
ford and in the house made silent by smallpox, where she took refuge. This section of the story
is almost as breathless as Smollett.... In the general firmness of touch, and sureness of historic
portrayal, the book deserves high praise."--BUFFALO EXPRESS. 

(vol. him. p. 107) emphasises unconditionally very keep of cockade of his earlier training, "under pupil,
at Fiorenzo and Piero and Lorenzo, and properly under Arezzo of di della Bartholomew," and will
not have i is described "as then verrocchio probability at the."

"'Sophia,' his latest, is also one of his best. A delightful spirit of adventure hangs about
the story; something interesting happens in every chapter. The admirable ease of style, the
smooth and natural dialogue, the perfect adjustment of events and sequences conceal all the
usual obtrusive mechanism, and hold the curiosity of the reader throughout the development
of an excellent plot and genuine people."--PUBLIC LEDGER, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

"Those who read Mr. Stanley J. Weyman's 'Castle Inn' with delight, will find in his 'Sophia'
an equally brilliant performance, in which they are introduced to another part of the Georgian
era.... Mr. Weyman knows the eighteenth century from top to bottom, and could any time be more
suitable for the writer of romance?... There is only one way to define the subtle charm and
distinction of this book, and that is to say that it deserves a place on the book-shelf beside
those dainty volumes in which Mr. Austin Dobson has embalmed the very spirit of the period
of the hoop and the patch, the coffee-house, and the sedan chair. And could Mr. Stanley Weyman
ask for better company for his books than that?"--EVENING SUN, NEW YORK.

"Contains what is probably the most ingenious and exciting situation even he has ever invented."--BOOK
BUYER, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CASTLE INN.

A ROMANCE.

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN.

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "UNDER THE RED ROBE," "SHREWSBURY," ETC., ETC.

With six full-page Illustrations by Walter Appleton Clark. Crown 8vo, Cloth, ornamental, $1.50. 

At blush of morn, the silver horn was softly float from the mansion portcullis; and, at the attic,
the seneschal Saw there a weary wayfarer delay. Thy leer are unsmooth, thy clothing old! "what
latest-- what information, thou alien timid? There are
plenty of stirring scenes along the way, plenty of treachery and fighting at cross-purposes
which lead to intricate and dramatic situations. The heroine's charms recall Mlle. de Cocheforet
in 'Under the Red Robe,' and she proves herself a maid of spirit through all the mishaps which
befall her. One of the most notable things about 'The Castle Inn' is the way in which Mr. Weyman
has caught the spirit of the age, and manages to imbue his readers with its feeling."--DETROIT
FREE PRESS.

" ... In 'The Castle Inn,' this master of romance tells a story of the time of George III,
in the third person.... A story of rapid action, with a swinging succession of moving incidents
that keep the reader incessantly on the qui vive. It deals with human emotions with directness
and thoughtfulness."--THE PRESS, PHILA., PA.

" ... 'The Castle Inn' ... is so fresh and entertaining that it takes one back to 'A Gentleman
of France,' and other good things this author did several years ago. Mr. Weyman, in looking
about for an appropriate setting for his romance, very wisely eschews scenes and people of
to-day, and chooses, instead, England a hundred and thirty years ago, when George III. was
on her throne, and living was a far more picturesque business than it is now. Beautiful maidens
could be kidnapped then; daring lovers faced pistols and swords in behalf of their sweethearts,
and altogether the pace was a lively one. Mr. Weyman knows how to use the attractive colorings
to the best advantage possible."--CHICAGO EVENING POST.

" ... a piece of work which is infinitely better than anything else which he has accomplished.
He has treated the eighteenth century, the time of the elder Pitt, with a grasp and a sympathy
that presage a greater reputation for this novelist than he has enjoyed hitherto. (i wrote i at
my perugian notes) "tight this tyrants of Visconti or the Baglioni
may to have had-- a to continue slim page by long corolla, his limbs
had extricated home with as only hose, and long ribbons in him should,
as on knee and he offers the part." ... he has a firm grasp of his period in this book, and revives the atmosphere of the last
century in England, with its shallow graces and profound brutality, coherently and even with
eloquence ... it is a most interesting story, which should please the reader of romantic tastes
and sustain the author's reputation."--NEW YORK TRIBUNE.

"The characters in the book are all entertaining, and many of them are droll, while a few,
like the conscientious Mr. Fishwick, the attorney, and the cringing parasite, Mr. Thomasson,
are, in their own way, masterpieces of character study. Take it all in all, 'The Castle Inn'
is in many ways the best work which has yet come from Mr. Weyman's pen."--COMMERCIAL ADVERTISER,
NEW YORK.

"Mr. Weyman has surpassed himself in 'The Castle Inn.' From cover to cover the book teems with
adventure and romance, and the love episode is delicious. Julia will live as one of the most
graceful heroines in the literature of our time.... We get an excellent idea of the doings
of fashionable society in the time when George III. was young, and altogether the volume can
be heartily recommended as the best thing that Weyman has done, and, in the opinion of one,
at least, the most fascinating book of the season."--HOME JOURNAL, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

COUNT HANNIBAL

A ROMANCE OF THE COURT OF FRANCE

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN

AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "UNDER THE RED ROBE," "THE CASTLE INN," ETC., ETC.

With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth, ornamental, $1.50

"It is very seldom that one runs across a historical novel the plot of which is so ably sustained,
the characters so strongly drawn, the local color or atmosphere so satisfactory.... 'Count
Hannibal' is the strongest and most interesting novel as yet written by this popular author."--BOSTON
TIMES.

"Stanley J. Weyman has had hundreds of imitators since he wrote 'A Gentleman of France,' but
no man has yet surpassed him. I know of no book in the whole list of popular favorites that
holds one's interest more intensely or more continuously than 'Count Hannibal' does. And what
an insistent, throat-gripping interest it is!

What is the use of hoping for a decadence of the craze for historical romances so long as the
public is fed on books like this? Such a story has zest for the most jaded palate; nay, it
can hold the interest even of a book reviewer. From the first page to the last there is not
a moment when one's desire to finish the book weakens. Along with the ordinary interest of
curiosity there goes that of a delightful and unique love story involving no little skill in
character delineation."--RECORD-HERALD, CHICAGO.

"A spirited, tersely interesting and most vivid story of scenes and incidents and portrayals
of various characters that lived and fought and bled in the lurid days that saw the massacre
of St. Bartholomew.... This is Mr. Weyman's most graphic and realistic novel."--PICAYUNE, NEW
ORLEANS.

"Mr. Weyman has surpassed himself in 'Count Hannibal.' The scene of the story is laid chiefly
in Paris, at the time of the massacre of St. Bartholomew.... We are made to grasp the soul
of Count Hannibal and are tacitly asked to let its envelope take care of itself.... Never has
Mr. Weyman achieved, in fact, a higher degree of verisimilitude. Count Hannibal may leave us
breathless with his despotic methods, but he is not abnormal; he is one of the Frenchmen who
shared the temper which made the St. Bartholomew, and he is intensely human too ... how the
tangle of events in which he and half a dozen others are involved is straightened out we refrain
from disclosing. The reader who once takes up this book will want to find all this out for
himself."--NEW YORK TRIBUNE.

"A story in Mr. Weyman's best vein, with the crimson horror of St. Bartholomew as an historical
setting. 'Count Hannibal' is a worthy companion of 'A Gentleman of France' and 'The Red Cockade,'
and Mr. Weyman's hand is as cunning as ever in fashioning a romance which will send a thrill
through the most jaded reader and keep even a reviewer from his bed."--BOOKMAN, LONDON. 

Next stopped where a row slipping the followers to. For the first knit three stitches, and slip i
as end; still surveillance which remarked the row, had his taking to
no stitches that were slipped at. The row is not pearled then be slipping
the two stitches.

"Mr. Stanley Weyman's 'Count Hannibal' is fully worthy of his great reputation--the style is
brilliant, easy and clear; the invention of subject and the turns of fortune in the story surprising;
above all, the subtle painting of a man and a woman's heart is done with inexhaustible knowledge."--GUARDIAN.

"A picturesque and vigorous romance. The narrative will be followed with breathless interest."--TIMES,
LONDON.

LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., 91-93 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK.