"The cause of this little interruption to the harmony of the evening being removed," resumed
Oaklands, "suppose we see whether its effects may not as easily be got rid of. Every man, I
take it, has a right to express his own opinion, and I think Fairlegh must allow that he was
a little hasty in presupposing, that by so doing an insult was intended. This being the case,
he will, I am sure, agree with me that he ought not to take any notice of Mr. Wilford's remark."

"Yes, to be sure, that's it--all right, eh?" exclaimed Lawless; "come, Fairlegh, as a favour
to me, let the matter end here."

Thus urged, I could only reply, that "I was quite willing to defer to their judgment, and do
whatever they considered right "--and as Wilford (though I could see that he was annoyed beyond
measure at having failed in persuading Lawless to give the toast) remained silent, merely curling
his lip contemptuously when I spoke, here the affair ended.

As soon as the conversation became general Oaklands turned to me with a mischievous smile,
and asked, in an undertone, "Pray, Master Frank, what's become of all the wisdom and prudence
recommended to me this morning? I am afraid you quite exhausted your stock, and have not reserved
any for your own use. Who's the fire-eater now, I wonder?"

"Laugh away, Harry; I may have acted foolishly, as is usually the case where one acts entirely
from impulse; but I could not have sat tamely by and heard Clara Saville's name polluted by
the-remarks of such men as Curtis and Wilford--I should have got into a row with them sooner
or later, and it was better to check the thing at once."

"My dear boy," returned Oaklands, "do not imagine for a moment that I am inclined to blame
you; the only thing that I could not help feeling rather amused at, was your throwing down
the gauntlet to the gentleman opposite, when I recollected a certain lecture on prudence, with
which I was victimised this morning."

"As you are strong, be merciful," replied I; "and, whenever I do a foolish thing, may I always
have such a friend at hand to save me from the consequences."

~170~~"That's a toast I will drink most willingly," said Oaklands smiling; "the more so, as
it reverses the position in which we generally stand with regard to each other, the alteration
being decidedly in my favour; but--" he continued, interrupting himself, "what on earth are
they laughing at, and making such a row about?"

"Oh, it's merely Curtis romancing with the most unmitigated effrontery, about something that
neither he, nor any one else, ever did out hunting," replied Archer; "a tremendous leap, I
fancy it was."

"Do not be too sure that it is impossible," replied I; "a horse once cleared the mouth of a
chalk pit with me on its back, when I was a boy; Lawless remembers it." "Eh! what? Mad Bess!"
returned Lawless; "I should think I did too; I rode there afterwards and examined the place--a
regular break-neck-looking hole as ever I saw in my life. Tell 'em about it, Frank."

Thus called upon, no choice was left me but to commence the recital, which, although there
are few things to which I have a greater objection than being the hero of my own story, I accordingly
did. Several remarks were made as I concluded, but, owing either to my well-known dislike of
exaggeration, or to the air of truthfulness with which I had told the tale, nobody seemed inclined
to doubt that the adventure had occurred in the manner I related, although it was of a more
incredible nature than the feat Curtis had recounted. This fact had just excited my attention,
when Wilford, turning to the man on his right hand, observed: "It's a great pity that some
one hasn't taken notes of this evening's conversation; they would have afforded materials for
a new volume of the adventures of Baron Munchausen".

My only answer to this remark, which was evidently intended for my hearing, was a slight smile,
for I had determined I would not again be betrayed into any altercation with him, and, being
now on my guard, I felt pretty sure of being able to maintain my resolution. To my annoyance
Oaklands replied: "If your remark is intended to throw any discredit upon the truth of the
anecdote my friend has related, I must be excused for observing that Lawless and I, though
not actually eyewitnesses of the leap, are yet perfectly aware that it took place".

"Was that observation addressed to me, Mr. Oaklands?" inquired Wilford, regarding Oaklands
with an insolent stare.

~171~~"To you, sir, or to any other man who ventures to throw a doubt on what Fairlegh has
just stated," replied Oaklands, his brow flushing with anger.

"Really," observed Wilford, with a contemptuous sneer, "Mr. Fairlegh is most fortunate in possessing
such a steady and useful friend: first, when he dictates to Lawless what toasts he is to propose
at his own table, and threatens the company generally with the weight of his displeasure should
they venture to question the propriety of his so doing, Mr. Oaklands kindly saves him from
the consequences of this warlike declaration, by advancing the somewhat novel doctrine, that
his friend, having spoken unadvisedly, ought not to act up to the tenor of his words. Again,
Mr. Fairlegh relates a marvellous tale of his earlier days, and Mr. Oaklands is prepared to
visit the most trifling indication of disbelief with the fire and faggots of his indignation.
Gentlemen, I hope you are all good and true Fairleghites, or you will assuredly be burned at
the stake, to satisfy the bigotry of Pope Oaklands the First."

During this speech I could perceive by the veins on his forehead, swollen almost to bursting,
his firmly set teeth, and his Viands clenched till the blood was forced back from the nails,
that Oaklands was striving to master his passion; apparently he succeeded in a great measure,
for, as Wilford concluded, he spoke calmly and deliberately: "The only reply, sir," he began,
"that I shall deign to make to your elaborate insult is, that I consider it as such, and shall
expect you to render me the satisfaction due to a gentleman".

"No, Harry," exclaimed I, "I cannot permit this: the quarrel, if it be a quarrel, is mine;
on this point I cannot allow even you to interfere. Mr. Wilford shall hear from me."

"No, no!" exclaimed Lawless; "I'm sure you must see, Wilford, that this is not at all the sort
of thing, eh? recollect Oaklands and Fairlegh are two of my oldest friends, and something is
due to me at all events, eh?--Archer--Curtis--this cannot be allowed to go on."

By this time the party had with one accord risen from their seats, and divided into groups,
some collecting round Wilford and Lawless, others about Oaklands and myself, and the confusion
of tongues was perfectly deafening. At length I heard Wilford's voice exclaim: "I consider
it unfair in the extreme to lay all this quarrelling and disturbance to me, and, as it is not
at all to my taste, I beg to wish you a very good evening, Lawless".

~172~~"You will do no such thing," cried Oaklands, and, bursting through the cluster of men
who surrounded him and endeavoured to detain him, he sprang to the door, double-locked it,
and, placing his back against it, added, "no one loaves the room till this affair is settled
one way or other." The action, the tone of voice, and the manner which accompanied them, reminded
me so forcibly of a deed of a somewhat similar nature at Dr. Mildman's, when Oaklands first
heard of the loss of his letter containing the cheque, and began to suspect foul play--that
for a moment the lapse of years was forgotten, and it seemed as though we were boys together again.

