We have also had to face the problem of shipping.  Ships in every part of the world continue
to be sunk by enemy action.  But the total tonnage of ships coming out of American, Canadian
and British shipyards, day by day, has increased so fast that we are getting ahead of our enemies
in the bitter battle of transportation.

In expanding our shipping, we have had to enlist many thousands of men for our Merchant Marine.
These men are serving magnificently. They are risking their lives every hour so that guns and
tanks and planes and ammunition and food may be carried to the heroic defenders of Stalingrad
and to all the United Nations' forces all over the world.

A few days ago I awarded the first Maritime Distinguished Service Medal to a young man--Edward
F. Cheney of Yeadon, Pennsylvania--who had shown great gallantry in rescuing his comrades from
the oily waters of the sea after their ship had been torpedoed.  There will be many more such
acts of bravery.

In one sense my recent trip was a hurried one, out through the Middle West, to the Northwest,
down the length of the Pacific Coast and back through the Southwest and the South.  In another
sense, however, it was a leisurely trip, because I had the opportunity to talk to the people
who are actually doing the work--management and labor alike--on their own home grounds.  And
it gave me a fine chance to do some thinking about the major problems of our war effort on
the basis of first things first.

As I told the three press association representatives who accompanied me, I was impressed by
the large proportion of women employed--doing skilled manual labor running machines.  As time
goes on, and many more of our men enter the armed forces, this proportion of women will increase.
Within less than a year from now, I think, there will probably be as many women as men working
in our war production plants.

I had some enlightening experiences relating to the old saying of us men that curiosity--inquisitiveness--is
stronger among woman.  I noticed, frequently, that when we drove unannounced down the middle
aisle of a great plant full of workers and machines, the first people to look up from their
work were the men--and not the women. It was chiefly the men who were arguing as to whether
that fellow in the straw hat was really the President or not.

So having seen the quality of the work and of the workers on our production lines--and coupling
these firsthand observations with the reports of actual performance of our weapons on the fighting
fronts--I can say to you that we are getting ahead of our enemies in the battle of production.

And of great importance to our future production was the effective and rapid manner in which
the Congress met the serious problem of the rising cost of living.  It was a splendid example
of the operation of democratic processes in wartime.

The machinery to carry out this act of the Congress was put into effect within twelve hours
after the bill was signed.  The legislation will help the cost-of-living problems of every
worker in every factory and on every farm in the land.

In order to keep stepping up our production, we have had to add millions of workers to the
total labor force of the nation.  And as new factories came into operation, we must find additional
millions of workers.

This presents a formidable problem in the mobilization of manpower.

It is not that we do not have enough people in this country to do the job.  The problem is
to have the right numbers of the right people in the right places at the right time.

We are learning to ration materials, and we must now learn to ration manpower.  The major objectives
of a sound manpower policy are:

First, to select and train men of the highest fighting efficiency needed for our armed forces
in the achievement of victory over our enemies in combat.

Second, to man our war industries and farms with the workers needed to produce the arms and
munitions and food required by ourselves and by our fighting allies to win this war.

In order to do this, we shall be compelled to stop workers from moving from one war job to
another as a matter of personal preference; to stop employers from stealing labor from each
other; to use older men, and handicapped people, and more women, and even grown boys and girls,
wherever possible and reasonable, to replace men of military age and fitness; to train new
personnel for essential war work; and to stop the wastage of labor in all non- essential activities.

There are many other things that we can do, and do immediately, to help meet this manpower problem.

The school authorities in all the states should work out plans to enable our high school students
to take some time from their school year, and to use their summer vacations, to help farmers
raise and harvest their crops, or to work somewhere in the war industries. This does not mean
closing schools and stopping education.  It does mean giving older students a better opportunity
to contribute their bit to the war effort.  Such work will do no harm to the students.

People should do their work as near their homes as possible.  We cannot afford to transport
a single worker into an area where there is already a worker available to do the job.

In some communities, employers dislike to employ women.  In others they are reluctant to hire
Negroes.  In still others, older men are not wanted.  We can no longer afford to indulge such
prejudices or practices.

Every citizen wants to know what essential war work he can do the best.  He can get the answer
by applying to the nearest United States Employment Service office.  There are four thousand
five hundred of these offices throughout the nation.  They form the corner grocery stores of
our manpower system.  This network of employment offices is prepared to advise every citizen
where his skills and labors are needed most, and to refer him to an employer who can utilize
them to best advantage in the war effort.

Perhaps the most difficult phase of the manpower problem is the scarcity of farm labor in many
places.  I have seen evidences of the fact, however, that the people are trying to meet it
as well as possible.

In one community that I visited a perishable crop was harvested by turning out the whole of
the high school for three or four days.

And in another community of fruit growers the usual Japanese labor was not available; but when
the fruit ripened, the banker, the butcher, the lawyer, the garage man, the druggist, the local
editor, and in fact every able-bodied man and woman in the town, left their occupations and
went out, gathered the fruit, and sent it to market.

Every farmer in the land must realize fully that his production is part of war production,
and that he is regarded by the nation as essential to victory.  The American people expect
him to keep his production up, and even to increase it.  We will use every effort to help him
to get labor; but, at the same time, he and the people of his community must use ingenuity
and cooperative effort to produce crops, and livestock and dairy products.

It may be that all of our volunteer effort--however well intentioned and well administered--will
not suffice wholly to solve this problem.  In that case, we shall have to adopt new legislation.
And if this is necessary, I do not believe that the American people will shrink from it.

In a sense, every American, because of the privilege of his citizenship, is a part of the Selective
Service.

The Nation owes a debt of gratitude to the Selective Service boards.  The successful operation
of the Selective Service System and the way it has been accepted by the great mass of our citizens
give us confidence that if necessary, the same principle could be used to solve any manpower
problem.

And I want to say also a word of praise and thanks to the more than ten million people, all
over the country, who have volunteered for the work of civilian defense--and who are working
hard at it.  They are displaying unselfish devotion in the patient performance of their often
tiresome and always anonymous tasks.  In doing this important neighborly work they are helping
to fortify our national unity and our real understanding of the fact that we are all involved
in this war.

Naturally, on my trip I was most interested in watching the training of our fighting forces.

All of our combat units that go overseas must consist of young, strong men who have had thorough
training.  An Army division that has an average age of twenty-three or twenty-four is a better
fighting unit than one which has an average age of thirty-three or thirty-four.  The more of
such troops we have in the field, the sooner the war will be won, and the smaller will be the
cost in casualties.

Therefore, I believe that it will be necessary to lower the present minimum age limit for Selective
Service from twenty years down to eighteen.  We have learned how inevitable that is--and how
important to the speeding up of victory.

I can very thoroughly understand the feelings of all parents whose sons have entered our armed
forces.  I have an appreciation of that feeling and so has my wife.

I want every father and every mother who has a son in the service to know--again, from what
I have seen with my own eyes--that the men in the Army, Navy and Marine Corps are receiving
today the best possible training, equipment and medical care.  And we will never fail to provide
for the spiritual needs of our officers and men under the Chaplains of our armed services.

Good training will save many, many lives in battle.  The highest rate of casualties is always
suffered by units comprised of inadequately trained men.

We can be sure that the combat units of our Army and Navy are well manned, well equipped, and
well trained.  Their effectiveness in action will depend upon the quality of their leadership,
and upon the wisdom of the strategic plans on which all military operations are based.

I can say one thing about these plans of ours:  They are not being decided by the typewriter
strategists who expound their views on the radio or in the press.

One of the greatest of American soldiers, Robert E. Lee, once remarked on the tragic fact that
in the war of his day all of the best generals were apparently working on newspapers instead
of in the Army.  And that seems to be true in all wars.

The trouble with the typewriter strategists is that while they may be full of bright ideas,
they are not in possession of much information about the facts or problems of military operations.

We, therefore, will continue to leave the plans for this war to the military leaders.

The military and naval plans of the United States are made by the Joint Staff of the Army and
Navy which is constantly in session in Washington.  The Chiefs of this Staff are Admiral Leahy,
General Marshall, Admiral King and General Arnold.  They meet and confer regularly with representatives
of the British Joint Staff, and with representatives of Russia, China, the Netherlands, Poland,
Norway, the British Dominions and other nations working in the common cause.

Since this unity of operations was put into effect last January, there has been a very substantial
agreement between these planners, all of whom are trained in the profession of arms--air, sea
and land--from their early years.  As Commander-in-Chief I have at all times also been in substantial
agreement.

As I have said before, many major decisions of strategy have been made.  One of them--on which
we have all agreed--relates to the necessity of diverting enemy forces from Russia and China
to other theaters of war by new offensives against Germany and Japan.  An announcement of how
these offensives are to be launched, and when, and where, cannot be broadcast over the radio
at this time.

We are celebrating today the exploit of a bold and adventurous Italian--Christopher Columbus--who
with the aid of Spain opened up a new world where freedom and tolerance and respect for human
rights and dignity provided an asylum for the oppressed of the Old World. Sometimes he comes to me in all honesty but I still
cannot trust him. I regret the way he frequently speaks of only the things he has seen (read)
or heard somewhere, which is my point as you, and, even he, should be able to imagine. He holds
my mind and my talents to be more than the heart, yet my heart is my one pride, so this is
miserable for me. Ah, what can I do?

In my heart I know that I am alone.

On May 25th there was something pressing in my head that I wanted to say: but, nothing comes of
this idea now, so it is just as well left unsaid. I wanted to go to war, the mine I love has long since
been located. That is mainly why I am following the General Prince"s services in ***. While taking
a walk with him I told him my plans and he advised me against the notion of war as he was more interested
in his passion with cricket, if I could not voice more convincing
reasons to him for it.

Then, on June 11th he told me to say what I want but that I should
not stay any longer.

The time had been long and he had kept my company as best as he could. Basically we have nothing
in common with each other. He has intellectual ability and a lot of common understanding, and he
chooses to deal with me no more, preferring for me to keep a well written journal. So, I stay
on eight days before I move back into the confusion. The most important thing I had done while I was here
was my drawing. The prince loved the art and would feel even stronger about it if he had not
been restricted by the nasty nature of the scientific terminology. Sometimes I grind my teeth
as I turn to nature and art and the warm imagination of them.

He thinks quite well of my art and it would be good to mark it with
a stamped coinage. By June 16 I decide I must be a mere wanderer, a
pilgrim on earth! Are you more?

Where do I want to go?

The opening was confidential and I have but fourteen days to stay
here.

I have been led to think that I would like to visit the mines between
there.

But, basically, there was nothing in this idea, I just wanted to get closer to Lotte again, that's
all. I have to laught at my own heart -- and do it his way. July 29th is good, I will be her husband! God,
my life is a constant prayer, and then you prepared this bliss for me. I was not right, please,
forgive me these tears, forgive me these vain wishes - for a wife!

If I hold the dear creature close in my arms under the sun.

I feel a shudder through my whole body. They would be happier with Albert Wilhelm than with me. Why
not, Wilhelm? He is not a many who hopes to fill all of that heart. There is a certain lack of tangibility,
a shortage of it. Take it as you like, his heart was not one of sympathy at the sight of a book,
where my heart and Lotte meet as one!

If in a hundred other acts it happens that our heart responds according
to a third party, dear Wilhelm - although he loves her with all of
his soul and has a love that does not deserve to die - he is an unbearable
man who has interrupted me.


And equally, it must not be hampered by any one individual or by the leaders of any one group
here back home.

I want to make it clear that every American coal miner who has stopped mining coal--no matter
how sincere his motives, no matter how legitimate he may believe his grievances to be--every
idle miner directly and individually is obstructing our war effort.  We have not yet won this
war.  We will win this war only as we produce and deliver our total American effort on the
high seas and on the battle fronts.  And that requires unrelenting, uninterrupted effort here
on the home front.

A stopping of the coal supply, even for a short time, would involve a gamble with the lives
of American soldiers and sailors and the future security of our whole people.  It would involve
an unwarranted, unnecessary and terribly dangerous gamble with our chances for victory.

Therefore, I say to all miners--and to all Americans everywhere, at home and abroad--the production
of coal will not be stopped.

Tonight, I am speaking to the essential patriotism of the miners, and to the patriotism of
their wives and children.  And I am going to state the true facts of this case as simply and
as plainly as I know how.

After the attack at Pearl Harbor, the three great labor organizations--the American Federation
of Labor, the Congress of Industrial Organizations, and the Railroad Brotherhoods--gave the
positive assurance that there would be no strikes as long as the war lasted.  And the President
of the United Mine workers of America was a party to that assurance.

That pledge was applauded throughout the country.  It was a forcible means of telling the world
that we Americans--135,000,000 of us-- are united in our determination to fight this total
war with our total will and our total power.

At the request of employers and of organized labor--including the United Mine Workers--the
War Labor Board was set up for settling any disputes which could not be adjusted through collective
bargaining.  The War Labor Board is a tribunal on which workers, employers and the general
public are equally represented.

In the present coal crisis, conciliation and mediation were tried unsuccessfully.

In accordance with the law, the case was then certified to the War Labor Board, the agency
created for this express purpose with the approval of organized labor.  The members of the
Board followed the usual practice which has proved successful in other disputes. Acting promptly,
they undertook to get all the facts of this case from both the miners and the operators.

The national officers of the United Mine Workers, however, declined to have anything to do
with the fact-finding of the War Labor Board.  The only excuse that they offer is that the
War Labor Board is prejudiced.

The War Labor Board has been and is ready to give this case a fair and impartial hearing. 
And I have given my assurance that if any adjustment of wages is made by the Board, it will
be made retroactive to April first.  But the national officers of the United Mine Workers refused
to participate in the hearing, when asked to do so last Monday.

On Wednesday of this past week, while the Board was proceeding with the case, stoppages began
to occur in some mines.  On Thursday morning I telegraphed to the officers of the United Mine
Workers asking that the miners continue mining coal on Saturday morning. However, a general
strike throughout the industry became effective on Friday night.

The responsibility for the crisis that we now face rests squarely on these national officers
of the United Mine Workers, and not on the government of the United States.  But the consequences
of this arbitrary action threaten all of us everywhere.

At ten o'clock yesterday morning the government took over the mines.  I called upon the miners
to return to work for their government.  The government needs their services just as surely
as it needs the services of our soldiers, and sailors, and marines-- and the services of the
millions who are turning out the munitions of war.

You miners have sons in the Army and Navy and Marine Corps.  You have sons who at this very
minute--this split second--may be fighting in New Guinea, or in the Aleutian Islands, or Guadalcanal,
or Tunisia, or China, or protecting troop ships and supplies against submarines on the high
seas.  We have already received telegrams from some of our fighting men overseas, and I only
wish they could tell you what they think of the stoppage of work in the coal mines.

Some of your own sons have come back from the fighting fronts, wounded.  A number of them,
for example, are now here in an Army hospital in Washington.  Several of them have been decorated
by their government.

I could tell you of one from Pennsylvania.  He was a coal miner before his induction, and his
father is a coal miner.  He was seriously wounded by Nazi machine gun bullets while he was
on a bombing mission over Europe in a Flying Fortress.

Another boy, from Kentucky, the son of a coal miner, was wounded when our troops first landed
in North Africa six months ago.

There is still another, from Illinois.  He was a coal miner--his father and two brothers are
coal miners.  He was seriously wounded in Tunisia while attempting to rescue two comrades whose
jeep had been blown up by a Nazi mine.

These men do not consider themselves heroes.  They would probably be embarrassed if I mentioned
their names over the air.  They were wounded in the line of duty.  They know how essential
it is to the tens of thousands--hundreds of thousands--and ultimately millions of other young
Americans to get the best of arms and equipment into the hands of our fighting forces--and
get them there quickly.

The fathers and mothers of our fighting men, their brothers and sisters and friends--and that
includes all of us--are also in the line of duty--the production line.  Any failure in production
may well result in costly defeat on the field of battle.

There can be no one among us--no one faction powerful enough to interrupt the forward march
of our people to victory.

You miners have ample reason to know that there are certain basic rights for which this country
stands, and that those rights are worth fighting for and worth dying for.  That is why you
have sent your sons and brothers from every mining town in the nation to join in the great
struggle overseas.  That is why you have contributed so generously, so willingly, to the purchase
of war bonds and to the many funds for the relief of war victims in foreign lands.  That is
why, since this war was started in 1939, you have increased the annual production of coal by
almost two hundred million tons a year.

The toughness of your sons in our armed forces is not surprising. They come of fine, rugged
stock.  Men who work in the mines are not unaccustomed to hardship.  It has been the objective
of this government to reduce that hardship, to obtain for miners and for all who do the nation's
work a better standard of living.

I know only too well that the cost of living is troubling the miners' families, and troubling
the families of millions of other workers throughout the country as well.

A year ago it became evident to all of us that something had to be done about living costs.
Your government determined not to let the cost of living continue to go up as it did in the
first World War.

Your government has been determined to maintain stability of both prices and wages--so that
a dollar would buy, so far as possible, the same amount of the necessities of life.  And by
necessities I mean just that--not the luxuries, not the fancy goods that we have learned to
do without in wartime.

So far, we have not been able to keep the prices of some necessities as low as we should have
liked to keep them.  That is true not only in coal towns but in many other places.

Wherever we find that prices of essentials have risen too high, they will be brought down.
Wherever we find that price ceilings are being violated, the violators will be punished.

Rents have been fixed in most parts of the country.  In many cities they have been cut to below
where they were before we entered the war.  Clothing prices have generally remained stable.

These two items make up more than a third of the total budget of the worker's family.

As for food, which today accounts for about another third of the family expenditure on the
average, I want to repeat again:  your government will continue to take all necessary measures
to eliminate unjustified and avoidable price increases.  And we are today taking measures to
"roll back" the prices of meats.

The war is going to go on.  Coal will be mined no matter what any individual thinks about it.
The operation of our factories, our power plants, our railroads will not be stopped.  Our munitions
must move to our troops.

And so, under these circumstances, it is inconceivable that any patriotic miner can choose
any course other than going back to work and mining coal.

The nation cannot afford violence of any kind at the coal mines or in coal towns.  I have placed
authority for the resumption of coal mining in the hands of a civilian, the Secretary of the
Interior. If it becomes necessary to protect any miner who seeks patriotically to go back and
work, then that miner must have and his family must have--and will have--complete and adequate
protection.  If it becomes necessary to have troops at the mine mouths or in coal towns for
the protection of working miners and their families, those troops will be doing police duty
for the sake of the nation as a whole, and particularly for the sake of the fighting men in
the Army, the Navy and the Marines--your sons and mine--who are fighting our common enemies
all over the world.

I understand the devotion of the coal miners to their union.  I know of the sacrifices they
have made to build it up.  I believe now, as I have all my life, in the right of workers to
join unions and to protect their unions.  I want to make it absolutely clear that this government
is not going to do anything now to weaken those rights in the coal fields.

Every improvement in the conditions of the coal miners of this country has had my hearty support,
and I do not mean to desert them now.  But I also do not mean to desert my obligations and
responsibilities as President of the United States and Commander- in-Chief of the Army and Navy.

The first necessity is the resumption of coal mining.  The terms of the old contract will be
followed by the Secretary of the Interior. If an adjustment in wages results from a decision
of the War Labor Board, or from any new agreement between the operators and miners, which is
approved by the War Labor Board, that adjustment will be made retroactive to April first.

In the message that I delivered to the Congress four months ago, I expressed my conviction
that the spirit of this nation is good.

Since then, I have seen our troops in the Caribbean area, in bases on the coasts of our ally,
Brazil, and in North Africa.  Recently I have again seen great numbers of our fellow countrymen--soldiers
and civilians--from the Atlantic Seaboard to the Mexican border and to the Rocky Mountains.

Tonight, in the fact of a crisis of serious proportions in the coal industry, I say again that
the spirit or this nation is good.  I know that the American people will not tolerate any threat
offered to their government by anyone.  I believe the coal miners will not continue the strike
against their government.  I believe that the coal miners as Americans will not fail to heed
the clear call to duty.  Like all other good Americans, they will march shoulder to shoulder
with their armed forces to victory.

Tomorrow the Stars and Stripes will fly over the coal mines, and I hope that every miner will
be at work under that flag.

July 28, 1943.

Today that prophecy is in the process of being fulfilled.  The massed, angered forces of common
humanity are on the march.  They are going forward--on the Russian front, in the vast Pacific
area, and into Europe--converging upon their ultimate objectives:  Berlin and Tokyo.

I think the first crack in the Axis has come.  The criminal, corrupt Fascist regime in Italy
is going to pieces.

The pirate philosophy of the Fascists and the Nazis cannot stand adversity.  The military superiority
of the United Nations--on sea and land, and in the air--has been applied in the right place
and at the right time.

Hitler refused to send sufficient help to save Mussolini.  In fact, Hitler's troops in Sicily
stole the Italians' motor equipment, leaving Italian soldiers so stranded that they had no
choice but to surrender.  Once again the Germans betrayed their Italian allies, as they had
done time and time again on the Russian front and in the long retreat from Egypt, through Libya
and Tripoli, to the final surrender in Tunisia.

And so Mussolini came to the reluctant conclusion that the "jig was up"; he could see the shadow
of the long arm of justice.

But he and his Fascist gang will be brought to book, and punished for their crimes against
humanity.  No criminal will be allowed to escape by the expedient of "resignation."

So our terms to Italy are still the same as our terms to Germany and Japan--"unconditional
surrender."

We will have no truck with Fascism in any way, in any shape or manner.  We will permit no vestige
of Fascism to remain.

Eventually Italy will reconstitute herself.  It will be the people of Italy who will do that,
choosing their own government in accordance with the basic democratic principles of liberty
and equality.  In the meantime, the United Nations will not follow the pattern set by Mussolini
and Hitler and the Japanese for the treatment of occupied countries--the pattern of pillage
and starvation.

We are already helping the Italian people in Sicily.  With their cordial cooperation, we are
establishing and maintaining security and order--we are dissolving the organizations which
have kept them under Fascist tyranny--we are providing them with the necessities of life until
the time comes when they can fully provide for themselves.

Indeed, the people in Sicily today are rejoicing in the fact that for the first time in years
they are permitted to enjoy the fruits of their own labors--they can eat what they themselves
grow, instead of having it stolen from them by the Fascists and the Nazis.

In every country conquered by the Nazis and the Fascists, or the Japanese militarists, the
people have been reduced to the status of slaves or chattels.

It is our determination to restore these conquered peoples to the dignity of human beings,
masters of their own fate, entitled to freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom from
want, and freedom from fear.

We have started to make good on that promise.

I am sorry if I step on the toes of those Americans who, playing party politics at home, call
that kind of foreign policy "crazy altruism "and "starry-eyed dreaming."

Meanwhile, the war in Sicily and Italy goes on.  It must go on, and will go on, until the Italian
people realize the futility of continuing to fight in a lost cause--a cause to which the people
of Italy never gave their wholehearted approval and support.

It is a little over a year since we planned the North African campaign.  It is six months since
we planned the Sicilian campaign. I confess that I am of an impatient disposition, but I think
that I understand and that most people understand the amount of time necessary to prepare for
any major military or naval operation.  We cannot just pick up the telephone and order a new
campaign to start the next week.

For example, behind the invasion forces in North Africa, the invasion forces that went out
of North Africa, were thousands of ships and planes guarding the long, perilous sea lanes,
carrying the men, carrying the equipment and the supplies to the point of attack.  And behind
all these were the railroad lines and the highways here back home that carried the men and
the munitions to the ports of embarkation--there were the factories and the mines and the farms
here back home that turned out the materials--there were the training camps here back home
where the men learned how to perform the strange and difficult and dangerous tasks which were
to meet them on the beaches and in the deserts and in the mountains. A
fool who makes himself to be taught are mottled in the study of the canon, works even much of
the newfangled, moral and critical of Christianity and Reformation Lavater's enthusiasm about
the shrugs, a completely shattered health, and therefore is no joy on God's earth. Such a creature
it was only possible, my walnut trees . To run away You see, I do not come to me! Imagine that make
the falling leaves court her unclean and musty, the trees you take the light of day, and when the
nuts mature , so after that the boys throw stones at, and she falls on the nerves, which interferes
it deep into their considerations when they weighs Kennikot, Semler and Michaelis against each
other. Since I have the people in the village, especially the old saw, so dissatisfied, I said, "why
did you ?"--" it suffered when the mayor wants to land here, "she said," what can you do "- but
one is fairly done. The mayor and the pastor, but also the women of his grilling, to it without
it making the soups, not fat, what would have thought it with each other share, as it was told the
room, and said, "Come here!" for she had some old pretensions on the part of the vicarage,
where the trees grew, and sold them to the highest bidder. They lie! Oh, if I would be Prince! I
wanted the pastor, the mayor and the Chamber - Fuerst - even if I would be Prince, what I care
about the trees in my land!

On 10 October

If I see only her black eyes, I do not have well! See, and what annoys me, is that Albert seems to be not
as happy as he - hoped - I - thought to be - if - I do not like dashes, but here I can not express
different - and me It seems clear enough.  But that is no new experience for that
magnificent fighting force which has made the Germans pay a heavy price for each hour of delay
in the final victory.  The American Seventh Army, after a stormy landing on the exposed beaches
of southern Sicily, swept with record speed across the island into the capital at Palermo.
For many of our troops this was their first battle experience, but they have carried themselves
like veterans.

And we must give credit for the coordination of the diverse forces in the field, and for the
planning of the whole campaign, to the wise and skillful leadership of General Eisenhower.
Admiral Cunningham, General Alexander and Sir Marshal Tedder have been towers of strength in
handling the complex details of naval and ground and air activities.

You have heard some people say that the British and the Americans can never get along well
together--you have heard some people say that the Army and the Navy and the Air Forces can
never get along well together--that real cooperation between them is impossible. Tunisia and
Sicily have given the lie, once and for all, to these narrow-minded prejudices.

The dauntless fighting spirit of the British people in this war has been expressed in the historic
words and deeds of Winston Churchill--and the world knows how the American people feel about him.

Ahead of us are much bigger fights.  We and our Allies will go into them as we went into Sicily--together.
And we shall carry on together.

Today our production of ships is almost unbelievable.  This year we are producing over nineteen
million tons of merchant shipping and next year our production will be over twenty-one million
tons.  And in addition to our shipments across the Atlantic, we must realize that in this war
we are operating in the Aleutians, in the distant parts of the Southwest Pacific, in India,
and off the shores of South America.

For several months we have been losing fewer ships by sinkings, and we have been destroying
more and more U-boats.  We hope this will continue.  But we cannot be sure.  We must not lower
our guard for one single instant. To hear from the mountains, in the howling
of the forest stream, half-blown groans of ghosts from their caves, and the lamentations of
the the wailing girl to death, the four mossy, grassy stones of Edelgefallnen, her lover.


Those few Americans who grouse and complain about the inconveniences of life here in the United
States should learn some lessons from the civilian populations of our Allies--Britain, and
China, and Russia--and of all the lands occupied by our common enemy.

The heaviest and most decisive fighting today is going on in Russia.  I am glad that the British
and we have been able to contribute somewhat to the great striking power of the Russian armies.

In 1941-1942 the Russians were able to retire without breaking, to move many of their war plants
from western Russia far into the interior, to stand together with complete unanimity in the
defense of their homeland.

The success of the Russian armies has shown that it is dangerous to make prophecies about them--a
fact which has been forcibly brought home to that mystic master of strategic intuition, Herr
Hitler.

The short-lived German offensive, launched early this month, was a desperate attempt to bolster
the morale of the German people.  The Russians were not fooled by this.  They went ahead with
their own plans for attack--plans which coordinate with the whole United Nations' offensive
strategy.

The world has never seen greater devotion, determination and self- sacrifice than have been
displayed by the Russian people and their armies, under the leadership of Marshal Joseph Stalin.

With a nation which in saving itself is thereby helping to save all the world from the Nazi
menace, this country of ours should always be glad to be a good neighbor and a sincere friend
in the world of the future.

In the Pacific, we are pushing the Japs around from the Aleutians to New Guinea.  There too
we have taken the initiative--and we are not going to let go of it.

It becomes clearer and clearer that the attrition, the whittling down process against the Japanese
is working.  The Japs have lost more planes and more ships than they have been able to replace.

The continuous and energetic prosecution of the war of attrition will drive the Japs back from
their over-extended line running from Burma and Siam and the Straits Settlement through the
Netherlands Indies to eastern New Guinea and the Solomons.  And we have good reason to believe
that their shipping and their air power cannot support such outposts. I work like slightly
off, and as it stands, it is, so he is able to give me back an essay and say: "He is good, but look
through it, you can always find a better word, a purer particles. "- I would like to be the
devil.to be the
devil.  I give that to them merely as a helpful suggestion.

