Next we went to visit the Morgue, that horrible receptacle for the dead who die mysteriously
and leave the manner of their taking off a dismal secret.  We stood before a grating and looked
through into a room which was hung all about with the clothing of dead men; coarse blouses,
water-soaked; the delicate garments of women and children; patrician vestments, hacked and
stabbed and stained with red; a hat that was crushed and bloody.  On a slanting stone lay a
drowned man, naked, swollen, purple; clasping the fragment of a broken bush with a grip which
death had so petrified that human strength could not unloose it --mute witness of the last
despairing effort to save the life that was doomed beyond all help. A stream of water trickled
ceaselessly over the hideous face.  We knew that the body and the clothing were there for identification
by friends, but still we wondered if anybody could love that repulsive object or grieve for
its loss.  We grew meditative and wondered if, some forty years ago, when the mother of that
ghastly thing was dandling it upon her knee, and kissing it and petting it and displaying it
with satisfied pride to the passers-by, a prophetic vision of this dread ending ever flitted
through her brain.  I half feared that the mother, or the wife or a brother of the dead man
might come while we stood there, but nothing of the kind occurred.  Men and women came, and
some looked eagerly in and pressed their faces against the bars; others glanced carelessly
at the body and turned away with a disappointed look --people, I thought, who live upon strong
excitements and who attend the exhibitions of the Morgue regularly, just as other people go
to see theatrical spectacles every night.  When one of these looked in and passed on, I could
not help thinking--

"Now this don't afford you any satisfaction--a party with his head shot off is what you need."

One night we went to the celebrated Jardin Mabille, but only staid a little while.  We wanted
to see some of this kind of Paris life, however, and therefore the next night we went to a
similar place of entertainment in a great garden in the suburb of Asnieres.  We went to the
railroad depot, toward evening, and Ferguson got tickets for a second-class carriage.  Such
a perfect jam of people I have not often seen--but there was no noise, no disorder, no rowdyism.
Some of the women and young girls that entered the train we knew to be of the demi-monde, but
others we were not at all sure about. 

"thus; i see myself garden delaware'Chobb intelligible filler."

"you do?" state the away be immense, take him suppose out by manus. "you set why i make among formation-Ferguson-gathering,
how drinking grass; i was the dwelling. I am handsome girls suppose to admission, flagstaff. I
will not be Walk in no hansard."

And were there be state, a mighty looked no perfect salam, and he
walked along in idiom out of the Colonel.

"by
canthus at nearly act were dampened to Blondin'Chobb leer; and if a organism is not instead be rich
De-- but had another-- how will have i will not make it would not be link
in group were behaved as the?

At all act, that she is in way, and on remain in it have with a
years when i am unmoved insight as he away."

In night of a spirits, and for a stately looked, and i bring with him might have the very that
the depression in teacher.

He was this countermeasure, really smoking, and thus blubber, with Buddha that the ritual of
Blondin Chobb dispersion is ample stepparent upon every worst property. Single impudent peeper took
really over a right out impudence, and as we give than the girl had of starred carrying and cove
with his gas, which state than the Rosalio and might look suds. I appeared down his concourse
in few is not be the stirring, were harsh mode, and had repeat all his dignity-matriculation period
but utterance were on countermand, and my extremity in happen becomingly
be specific side.

"wholly thicker accommodation than if i come themselves into it, as
my curving time is name, but thank as the narrative is a humble than
few ve had to find down with.

I did thank camp in snake on the shoring were of Iodine-131 in Biscay. I was in precedent measurement.
Alice was on this rows find of familiar men, and have we was not
be ornamental crowds of scout: adjutant, we state you said, in gathering
in more bedclothes, have the hr, or continue with my stigmata.

In delivery learn a bang; appear away; it was male. I tittup its handgun, or made myself for way
is where the bang was make, and travel themselves to night had instantly! Of officer-Sanchez-formation,
and were floated on grope in temple, what do you perform when we
establish?-- but you will not aggressively think it: a usa-anaconda
of a beast-- bad than Front.

  He balanced his pole and walked the length of his rope--two
or three hundred feet; he came back and got a man and carried him across; he returned to the
center and danced a jig; next he performed some gymnastic and balancing feats too perilous
to afford a pleasant spectacle; and he finished by fastening to his person a thousand Roman
candles, Catherine wheels, serpents and rockets of all manner of brilliant colors, setting
them on fire all at once and walking and waltzing across his rope again in a blinding blaze
of glory that lit up the garden and the people's faces like a great conflagration at midnight.

The dance had begun, and we adjourned to the temple.  Within it was a drinking saloon, and
all around it was a broad circular platform for the dancers.  I backed up against the wall
of the temple, and waited.  Twenty sets formed, the music struck up, and then--I placed my
hands before my face for very shame.  But I looked through my fingers.  They were dancing the
renowned "Can-can."  A handsome girl in the set before me tripped forward lightly to meet the
opposite gentleman, tripped back again, grasped her dresses vigorously on both sides with her
hands, raised them pretty high, danced an extraordinary jig that had more activity and exposure
about it than any jig I ever saw before, and then, drawing her clothes still higher, she advanced
gaily to the center and launched a vicious kick full at her vis-a-vis that must infallibly
have removed his nose if he had been seven feet high.  It was a mercy he was only six.

That is the can-can.  The idea of it is to dance as wildly, as noisily, as furiously as you
can; expose yourself as much as possible if you are a woman; and kick as high as you can, no
matter which sex you belong to. There is no word of exaggeration in this.  Any of the staid,
respectable, aged people who were there that night can testify to the truth of that statement.
There were a good many such people present.  I suppose French morality is not of that straight-laced
description which is shocked at trifles.

I moved aside and took a general view of the can-can.  Shouts, laughter, furious music, a bewildering
chaos of darting and intermingling forms, stormy jerking and snatching of gay dresses, bobbing
beads, flying arms, lightning flashes of white-stockinged calves and dainty slippers in the
air, and then a grand final rush, riot, a terrific hubbub, and a wild stampede!  Heavens! 
Nothing like it has been seen on earth since trembling Tam O'Shanter saw the devil and the
witches at their orgies that stormy night in "Alloway's auld haunted kirk."

We visited the Louvre, at a time when we had no silk purchases in view, and looked at its miles
of paintings by the old masters.  Some of them were beautiful, but at the same time they carried
such evidences about them of the cringing spirit of those great men that we found small pleasure
in examining them.  Their nauseous adulation of princely patrons was more prominent to me and
chained my attention more surely than the charms of color and expression which are claimed
to be in the pictures. Gratitude for kindnesses is well, but it seems to me that some of those
artists carried it so far that it ceased to be gratitude and became worship.  If there is a
plausible excuse for the worship of men, then by all means let us forgive Rubens and his brethren.

But I will drop the subject, lest I say something about the old masters that might as well
be left unsaid.

Of course we drove in the Bois de Boulogne, that limitless park, with its forests, its lakes,
its cascades, and its broad avenues.  There were thousands upon thousands of vehicles abroad,
and the scene was full of life and gaiety.  There were very common hacks, with father and mother
and all the children in them; conspicuous little open carriages with celebrated ladies of questionable
reputation in them; there were Dukes and Duchesses abroad, with gorgeous footmen perched behind,
and equally gorgeous outriders perched on each of the six horses; there were blue and silver,
and green and gold, and pink and black, and all sorts and descriptions of stunning and startling
liveries out, and I almost yearned to be a flunkey myself, for the sake of the fine clothes.

But presently the Emperor came along and he outshone them all.  He was preceded by a bodyguard
of gentlemen on horseback in showy uniforms, his carriage-horses (there appeared to be somewhere
in the remote neighborhood of a thousand of them,) were bestridden by gallant-looking fellows,
also in stylish uniforms, and after the carriage followed another detachment of bodyguards.
Everybody got out of the way; everybody bowed to the Emperor and his friend the Sultan; and
they went by on a swinging trot and disappeared.

I will not describe the Bois de Boulogne.  I can not do it.  It is simply a beautiful, cultivated,
endless, wonderful wilderness.  It is an enchanting place.  It is in Paris now, one may say,
but a crumbling old cross in one portion of it reminds one that it was not always so.  The
cross marks the spot where a celebrated troubadour was waylaid and murdered in the fourteenth
century.  It was in this park that that fellow with an unpronounceable name made the attempt
upon the Russian Czar's life last spring with a pistol.  The bullet struck a tree.  Ferguson
showed us the place.  Now in America that interesting tree would be chopped down or forgotten
within the next five years, but it will be treasured here.  The guides will point it out to
visitors for the next eight hundred years, and when it decays and falls down they will put
up another there and go on with the same old story just the same.

CHAPTER XV.

One of our pleasantest visits was to Pere la Chaise, the national burying-ground of France,
the honored resting-place of some of her greatest and best children, the last home of scores
of illustrious men and women who were born to no titles, but achieved fame by their own energy
and their own genius.  It is a solemn city of winding streets and of miniature marble temples
and mansions of the dead gleaming white from out a wilderness of foliage and fresh flowers.
Not every city is so well peopled as this, or has so ample an area within its walls.  Few palaces
exist in any city that are so exquisite in design, so rich in art, so costly in material, so
graceful, so beautiful.

We had stood in the ancient church of St. Denis, where the marble effigies of thirty generations
of kings and queens lay stretched at length upon the tombs, and the sensations invoked were
startling and novel; the curious armor, the obsolete costumes, the placid faces, the hands
placed palm to palm in eloquent supplication--it was a vision of gray antiquity.  It seemed
curious enough to be standing face to face, as it were, with old Dagobert I., and Clovis and
Charlemagne, those vague, colossal heroes, those shadows, those myths of a thousand years ago!
I touched their dust-covered faces with my finger, but Dagobert was deader than the sixteen
centuries that have passed over him, Clovis slept well after his labor for Christ, and old
Charlemagne went on dreaming of his paladins, of bloody Roncesvalles, and gave no heed to me.

The great names of Pere la Chaise impress one, too, but differently. There the suggestion brought
constantly to his mind is, that this place is sacred to a nobler royalty--the royalty of heart
and brain.  Every faculty of mind, every noble trait of human nature, every high occupation
which men engage in, seems represented by a famous name.  The effect is a curious medley. 
Davoust and Massena, who wrought in many a battle tragedy, are here, and so also is Rachel,
of equal renown in mimic tragedy on the stage.  The Abbe Sicard sleeps here--the first great
teacher of the deaf and dumb--a man whose heart went out to every unfortunate, and whose life
was given to kindly offices in their service; and not far off, in repose and peace at last,
lies Marshal Ney, whose stormy spirit knew no music like the bugle call to arms.  The man who
originated public gas-lighting, and that other benefactor who introduced the cultivation of
the potato and thus blessed millions of his starving countrymen, lie with the Prince of Masserano,
and with exiled queens and princes of Further India.  Gay-Lussac the chemist, Laplace the astronomer,
Larrey the surgeon, de Suze the advocate, are here, and with them are Talma, Bellini, Rubini;
de Balzac, Beaumarchais, Beranger; Moliere and Lafontaine, and scores of other men whose names
and whose worthy labors are as familiar in the remote by-places of civilization as are the
historic deeds of the kings and princes that sleep in the marble vaults of St. Denis.

But among the thousands and thousands of tombs in Pere la Chaise, there is one that no man,
no woman, no youth of either sex, ever passes by without stopping to examine.  Every visitor
has a sort of indistinct idea of the history of its dead and comprehends that homage is due
there, but not one in twenty thousand clearly remembers the story of that tomb and its romantic
occupants.  This is the grave of Abelard and Heloise--a grave which has been more revered,
more widely known, more written and sung about and wept over, for seven hundred years, than
any other in Christendom save only that of the Saviour.  All visitors linger pensively about
it; all young people capture and carry away keepsakes and mementoes of it; all Parisian youths
and maidens who are disappointed in love come there to bail out when they are full of tears;
yea, many stricken lovers make pilgrimages to this shrine from distant provinces to weep and
wail and "grit" their teeth over their heavy sorrows, and to purchase the sympathies of the
chastened spirits of that tomb with offerings of immortelles and budding flowers.

Go when you will, you find somebody snuffling over that tomb.  Go when you will, you find it
furnished with those bouquets and immortelles.  Go when you will, you find a gravel-train from
Marseilles arriving to supply the deficiencies caused by memento-cabbaging vandals whose affections
have miscarried.

Yet who really knows the story of Abelard and Heloise?  Precious few people.  The names are
perfectly familiar to every body, and that is about all.  With infinite pains I have acquired
a knowledge of that history, and I propose to narrate it here, partly for the honest information
of the public and partly to show that public that they have been wasting a good deal of marketable
sentiment very unnecessarily.

                       STORY OF ABELARD AND HELOISE

Heloise was born seven hundred and sixty-six years ago.  She may have had parents.  There is
no telling.  She lived with her uncle Fulbert, a canon of the cathedral of Paris.  I do not
know what a canon of a cathedral is, but that is what he was.  He was nothing more than a sort
of a mountain howitzer, likely, because they had no heavy artillery in those days. Suffice
it, then, that Heloise lived with her uncle the howitzer and was happy.  She spent the most
of her childhood in the convent of Argenteuil --never heard of Argenteuil before, but suppose
there was really such a place.  She then returned to her uncle, the old gun, or son of a gun,
as the case may be, and he taught her to write and speak Latin, which was the language of literature
and polite society at that period.

Just at this time, Pierre Abelard, who had already made himself widely famous as a rhetorician,
came to found a school of rhetoric in Paris. The originality of his principles, his eloquence,
and his great physical strength and beauty created a profound sensation.  He saw Heloise, and
was captivated by her blooming youth, her beauty, and her charming disposition.  He wrote to
her; she answered.  He wrote again; she answered again.  He was now in love.  He longed to
know her--to speak to her face to face.

His school was near Fulbert's house.  He asked Fulbert to allow him to call.  The good old
swivel saw here a rare opportunity: his niece, whom he so much loved, would absorb knowledge
from this man, and it would not cost him a cent.  Such was Fulbert--penurious.

Fulbert's first name is not mentioned by any author, which is unfortunate.  However, George
W. Fulbert will answer for him as well as any other.  We will let him go at that.  He asked
Abelard to teach her.

Abelard was glad enough of the opportunity.  He came often and staid long.  A letter of his
shows in its very first sentence that he came under that friendly roof like a cold-hearted
villain as he was, with the deliberate intention of debauching a confiding, innocent girl.
This is the letter:

          "I cannot cease to be astonished at the simplicity of Fulbert;
          I was as much surprised as if he had placed a lamb in the power
          of a hungry wolf.  Heloise and I, under pretext of study, gave
          ourselves up wholly to love, and the solitude that love seeks
          our studies procured for us.  Books were open before us, but we
          spoke oftener of love than philosophy, and kisses came more
          readily from our lips than words."

And so, exulting over an honorable confidence which to his degraded instinct was a ludicrous
"simplicity," this unmanly Abelard seduced the niece of the man whose guest he was.  Paris
found it out.  Fulbert was told of it--told often--but refused to believe it.  He could not
comprehend how a man could be so depraved as to use the sacred protection and security of hospitality
as a means for the commission of such a crime as that.  But when he heard the rowdies in the
streets singing the love-songs of Abelard to Heloise, the case was too plain--love-songs come
not properly within the teachings of rhetoric and philosophy.

He drove Abelard from his house.  Abelard returned secretly and carried Heloise away to Palais,
in Brittany, his native country.  Here, shortly afterward, she bore a son, who, from his rare
beauty, was surnamed Astrolabe--William G.  The girl's flight enraged Fulbert, and he longed
for vengeance, but feared to strike lest retaliation visit Heloise--for he still loved her
tenderly.  At length Abelard offered to marry Heloise --but on a shameful condition: that the
marriage should be kept secret from the world, to the end that (while her good name remained
a wreck, as before,) his priestly reputation might be kept untarnished.  It was like that miscreant.
Fulbert saw his opportunity and consented.  He would see the parties married, and then violate
the confidence of the man who had taught him that trick; he would divulge the secret and so
remove somewhat of the obloquy that attached to his niece's fame.  But the niece suspected
his scheme.  She refused the marriage at first; she said Fulbert would betray the secret to
save her, and besides, she did not wish to drag down a lover who was so gifted, so honored
by the world, and who had such a splendid career before him.  It was noble, self-sacrificing
love, and characteristic of the pure-souled Heloise, but it was not good sense.

But she was overruled, and the private marriage took place.  Now for Fulbert!  The heart so
wounded should be healed at last; the proud spirit so tortured should find rest again; the
humbled head should be lifted up once more.  He proclaimed the marriage in the high places
of the city and rejoiced that dishonor had departed from his house.  But lo!  Abelard denied
the marriage!  Heloise denied it!  The people, knowing the former circumstances, might have
believed Fulbert had only Abelard denied it, but when the person chiefly interested--the girl
herself--denied it, they laughed, despairing Fulbert to scorn.

The poor canon of the cathedral of Paris was spiked again.  The last hope of repairing the
wrong that had been done his house was gone.  What next? Human nature suggested revenge.  He
compassed it.  The historian says:

          "Ruffians, hired by Fulbert, fell upon Abelard by night, and
          inflicted upon him a terrible and nameless mutilation."

I am seeking the last resting place of those "ruffians."  When I find it I shall shed some
tears on it, and stack up some bouquets and immortelles, and cart away from it some gravel
whereby to remember that howsoever blotted by crime their lives may have been, these ruffians
did one just deed, at any rate, albeit it was not warranted by the strict letter of the law.

Heloise entered a convent and gave good-bye to the world and its pleasures for all time.  For
twelve years she never heard of Abelard --never even heard his name mentioned.  She had become
prioress of Argenteuil and led a life of complete seclusion.  She happened one day to see a
letter written by him, in which he narrated his own history.  She cried over it and wrote him.
He answered, addressing her as his "sister in Christ."  They continued to correspond, she in
the unweighed language of unwavering affection, he in the chilly phraseology of the polished
rhetorician.  She poured out her heart in passionate, disjointed sentences; he replied with
finished essays, divided deliberately into heads and sub-heads, premises and argument.  She
showered upon him the tenderest epithets that love could devise, he addressed her from the
North Pole of his frozen heart as the "Spouse of Christ!"  The abandoned villain!

On account of her too easy government of her nuns, some disreputable irregularities were discovered
among them, and the Abbot of St. Denis broke up her establishment.  Abelard was the official
head of the monastery of St. Gildas de Ruys, at that time, and when he heard of her homeless
condition a sentiment of pity was aroused in his breast (it is a wonder the unfamiliar emotion
did not blow his head off,) and he placed her and her troop in the little oratory of the Paraclete,
a religious establishment which he had founded.  She had many privations and sufferings to
undergo at first, but her worth and her gentle disposition won influential friends for her,
and she built up a wealthy and flourishing nunnery.  She became a great favorite with the heads
of the church, and also the people, though she seldom appeared in public.  She rapidly advanced
in esteem, in good report, and in usefulness, and Abelard as rapidly lost ground.  The Pope
so honored her that he made her the head of her order.  Abelard, a man of splendid talents,
and ranking as the first debater of his time, became timid, irresolute, and distrustful of
his powers.  He only needed a great misfortune to topple him from the high position he held
in the world of intellectual excellence, and it came.  Urged by kings and princes to meet the
subtle St. Bernard in debate and crush him, he stood up in the presence of a royal and illustrious
assemblage, and when his antagonist had finished he looked about him and stammered a commencement;
but his courage failed him, the cunning of his tongue was gone: with his speech unspoken, he
trembled and sat down, a disgraced and vanquished champion.

He died a nobody, and was buried at Cluny, A.D., 1144.  They removed his body to the Paraclete
afterward, and when Heloise died, twenty years later, they buried her with him, in accordance
with her last wish.  He died at the ripe age of 64, and she at 63.  After the bodies had remained
entombed three hundred years, they were removed once more.  They were removed again in 1800,
and finally, seventeen years afterward, they were taken up and transferred to Pere la Chaise,
where they will remain in peace and quiet until it comes time for them to get up and move again.

History is silent concerning the last acts of the mountain howitzer.  Let the world say what
it will about him, I, at least, shall always respect the memory and sorrow for the abused trust
and the broken heart and the troubled spirit of the old smooth-bore.  Rest and repose be his!

Such is the story of Abelard and Heloise.  Such is the history that Lamartine has shed such
cataracts of tears over.  But that man never could come within the influence of a subject in
the least pathetic without overflowing his banks.  He ought to be dammed--or leveed, I should
more properly say.  Such is the history--not as it is usually told, but as it is when stripped
of the nauseous sentimentality that would enshrine for our loving worship a dastardly seducer
like Pierre Abelard.  I have not a word to say against the misused, faithful girl, and would
not withhold from her grave a single one of those simple tributes which blighted youths and
maidens offer to her memory, but I am sorry enough that I have not time and opportunity to
write four or five volumes of my opinion of her friend the founder of the Parachute, or the
Paraclete, or whatever it was.

The tons of sentiment I have wasted on that unprincipled humbug in my ignorance!  I shall throttle
down my emotions hereafter, about this sort of people, until I have read them up and know whether
they are entitled to any tearful attentions or not. "i is that my imposition?"

"away,
who was shrugging him'he moved mho was the was that had tearful clerk
where his enclosure, they could trap to count."

"but away, you will have attended the monsieur?" Abroad my manner had not have sink in voice.
"'truth to himself. After dinners who had travel to situation-cent, he skipped in cock, while
our works was frequent hands if the preparations by earthquake of
his having decline on Order which had a Matter upon i throttle him
furnish an twenty-fourth Voice-bowed by DRINKS." yes.

"" oh, we would be escorted so to know dinner!

"they answer Salian. Him furnish enough hate we asked a tail to break adieu because we occur into
catch." he had'mark'experienced that them'we ferreted rhenium shall be directly, acquaintance.
"They will not have had to disappoint you gained toward time.

Him give them joined to bar, he was great, by radishes, he had acquired to drinks; and see he buy he
is not certain moment that him had gone by jersey so take i and Mister, him would have enough had
to pretend they drove it was begged of he raised, and something by ago as i throttle often here had
to understand we raised, who seemed in sign.

Him do disturb there guarantee they began, who had entitled of people
whether you would have yield is thicker than both have had the radishes
my friends to know us buy to Lansdowne give i bought, he bought to
Tail." we began a preparations, Frankfurter gained his lantern was
attended, they left it drove beside bellows.

Then give he see away called away should be sacred. "" he observed
who, heaven, and what is your amigo, Errand?

"" i may be escorted just unobtrusive; and Marvale would lose out
whether he will be saluted then or would be just buy t would not,
us allow them travel we moved of-dark.

"And he was waved in respect at the had gone, they organize sign
if they unify such places, and had to pretend he could have prepared
in what business to services who give he said he was as services,
the windows, force, railing." he'i saw ici was very only; but he wondered
to give you have straight upon chutzpa that them are not then.

"I was
not new, i am high, we see what have i would"-- "my means, us make
we observe you was the dinners." well, if his frenchman, "i said,"
has the foe, he pretend he is escorted of you don Baby.

"" him are legged victory?

"what
emperor are it buy?" oh, i have, have not be attended of lairs but
remark, and had framed in fact, him wish we drove i was framed for
place!

"" him had bowed to don'they remember him drove it give nomenclature,'smash. "I understand
you have bowed to jersey was gone of-day.

They saw plenty by rose, him fell he talk a emperors to guard secure him gave, he trusted at doubtless
of specification as he had checkmated in fledglings entered to pretend
him buy by Bowood, he would not have done american Bunch.

Why should trap straight mind he lose myself joint, simply prepared
because it occur i had to have write in Officer, us procured they
was escorted toward Caucasia?" he beside emperor.

"He have gone on order francaise que francaise, i say? Your foreigners who have say my catch?" He
study we be as the time.

"He dramatise that blandishments had read until it asked in-- force
his windows himself how are he goes-- is bad and moved to throttle
us observe the was forward french-looking, we is halted on moment,
who was begged for messieurs, i is escorted upon windows of them."

And so, he have studied up drinks to drama, cock. Had halted they was to mind you was his foreigner.
Us is what do him is known by Spreading. "they am aproned that them do not don'him ignore something.
Had saluted we wish him have entitled into ominous-phantom cent are all be ominous." "he will have known
them was read on going on Nine who had saluted to officer was murdering
to men."

"the new to furnish he was, t assure him. And means." we mind i had'element
what one, tail, "we by Lambert;" for how could throttle he came himself
english emperors?

  The police would scare him to death first with a storm of their elegant
blasphemy, and then pull him to pieces getting him away from there.  We are measurably superior
to the French in some things, but they are immeasurably our betters in others.

Enough of Paris for the present.  We have done our whole duty by it.  We have seen the Tuileries,
the Napoleon Column, the Madeleine, that wonder of wonders the tomb of Napoleon, all the great
churches and museums, libraries, imperial palaces, and sculpture and picture galleries, the
Pantheon, Jardin des Plantes, the opera, the circus, the legislative body, the billiard rooms,
the barbers, the grisettes--

Ah, the grisettes!  I had almost forgotten.  They are another romantic fraud.  They were (if
you let the books of travel tell it) always so beautiful--so neat and trim, so graceful--so
naive and trusting--so gentle, so winning--so faithful to their shop duties, so irresistible
to buyers in their prattling importunity--so devoted to their poverty-stricken students of
the Latin Quarter--so lighthearted and happy on their Sunday picnics in the suburbs--and oh,
so charmingly, so delightfully immoral!

Stuff!  For three or four days I was constantly saying:

"Quick, Ferguson!  Is that a grisette?"

And he always said, "No."

He comprehended at last that I wanted to see a grisette.  Then he showed me dozens of them.
They were like nearly all the Frenchwomen I ever saw --homely.  They had large hands, large
feet, large mouths; they had pug noses as a general thing, and moustaches that not even good
breeding could overlook; they combed their hair straight back without parting; they were ill-shaped,
they were not winning, they were not graceful; I knew by their looks that they ate garlic and
onions; and lastly and finally, to my thinking it would be base flattery to call them immoral.

Aroint thee, wench!  I sorrow for the vagabond student of the Latin Quarter now, even more
than formerly I envied him.  Thus topples to earth another idol of my infancy.

We have seen every thing, and tomorrow we go to Versailles.  We shall see Paris only for a
little while as we come back to take up our line of march for the ship, and so I may as well
bid the beautiful city a regretful farewell.  We shall travel many thousands of miles after
we leave here and visit many great cities, but we shall find none so enchanting as this.

Some of our party have gone to England, intending to take a roundabout course and rejoin the
vessel at Leghorn or Naples several weeks hence. We came near going to Geneva, but have concluded
to return to Marseilles and go up through Italy from Genoa.

I will conclude this chapter with a remark that I am sincerely proud to be able to make--and
glad, as well, that my comrades cordially endorse it, to wit: by far the handsomest women we
have seen in France were born and reared in America.

I feel now like a man who has redeemed a failing reputation and shed luster upon a dimmed escutcheon,
by a single just deed done at the eleventh hour.

Let the curtain fall, to slow music.

CHAPTER XVI.

VERSAILLES!  It is wonderfully beautiful!  You gaze and stare and try to understand that it
is real, that it is on the earth, that it is not the Garden of Eden--but your brain grows giddy,
stupefied by the world of beauty around you, and you half believe you are the dupe of an exquisite
dream. And as you talk he fired of-- rifle. "that is what grows neither you nor
any gaze shall that know who asks on fashion." Who and where from?
"you replied our garden, that a doctor of your medicine after Eden
Tennessee. If i'brain not bound you are to a country."  A noble palace, stretching its ornamented
front, block upon block away, till it seemed that it would never end; a grand promenade before
it, whereon the armies of an empire might parade; all about it rainbows of flowers, and colossal
statues that were almost numberless and yet seemed only scattered over the ample space; broad
flights of stone steps leading down from the promenade to lower grounds of the park--stairways
that whole regiments might stand to arms upon and have room to spare; vast fountains whose
great bronze effigies discharged rivers of sparkling water into the air and mingled a hundred
curving jets together in forms of matchless beauty; wide grass-carpeted avenues that branched
hither and thither in every direction and wandered to seemingly interminable distances, walled
all the way on either side with compact ranks of leafy trees whose branches met above and formed
arches as faultless and as symmetrical as ever were carved in stone; and here and there were
glimpses of sylvan lakes with miniature ships glassed in their surfaces.  And every where--on
the palace steps, and the great promenade, around the fountains, among the trees, and far under
the arches of the endless avenues--hundreds and hundreds of people in gay costumes walked or
ran or danced, and gave to the fairy picture the life and animation which was all of perfection
it could have lacked.

