Now it would seem that coming to the discussion with these obviously high motives, and such
fair promises, the strikers would have been met by similarly altruistic methods. But instead,
the next morning at half past six, when a thousand strikers appeared bearing large white badges
inscribed with the words, "We stand for peace and law and order," and when the strikers appeared
before the entrance to the shaft houses and the gates and doors of the smelters and mills,
to beg men and women not to fill the vacant places at the mills and mines, the white-badged
brigade was met with five hundred policemen who rudely ordered the strikers to move on.

The Haves were exhibiting feeling in the matter. But the mines and mills did not open; not
enough strike-breakers appeared. So that afternoon, a great procession of white-badged men
and white-clad women and children, formed in South Harvey, and, headed by the Foley Brass Band,
marched through Market Street and for five miles through the streets of Harvey singing. Upon
a platform carried by eight white-clad mothers, sat little Ben Bowman swathed in white, waving
a white flag in his hand, and leading the singing. Over the chair on which he sat were these
words on a great banner. "For his legal rights and for all such as he we demand that the law
be enforced."

For two hours the procession wormed through Harvey. The streets were crowded to watch it. It
made its impression on the town. The elder Calvin watched it with Mayor Ahab Wright, in festal
side whiskers, from the office of Calvin & Calvin. Young Joe Calvin from time to time came
and looked over their shoulders. But he was for the most part too busily engaged, making out
commissions for deputy sheriffs and extra policemen, to watch the parade. As the parade came
back headed for South Harvey, the ear of the young man caught a familiar tune. He watched Ahab
Wright and his father to see if they recognized it. The placid face of the Mayor betrayed no
more consciousness of the air than did his immaculate white necktie. The elder Calvin's face
showed no appreciative wrinkles. The band passed down the street roaring the battle hymn of
labor that has become so familiar all over the world. The great procession paused uncovered
in the street, while Little Ben waved his flag and raised his clear, boyish voice with its
clarion note and sang, as the procession waved back. And at the spectacle of the crippled child,
waving his one little arm, and lifting his voice in a lusty strain, the sidewalk crowd cheered
and those who knew the tune joined.

Young Joe Calvin stood with his hands on the shoulders of the two sitting men. "Mr. Mayor,
do you know that tune?" said Young Joe.

Mr. Mayor, whose only secular tune was "Yankee Doodle," confessed his ignorance. "Listen to
the words," suggested Young Joe. Old Joe put his hand to his right ear.

When Ahab Wright caught the words he was open mouthed with astonishment. "Why--why," he cried,
"that--why, that is sedition. They're advocating murder!"

Young Joe Calvin's face did not betray him, and he nodded a warning head. Old Joe looked the
genuine consternation which he felt.

"We can't have this, Ahab--this won't do--a few days of this and we'll have bloodshed."

It did not occur to Ahab Wright that he had been singing "Onward, Christian Soldiers," and
"I Am a Soldier of the Cross," and "I'll Be Washed in the Blood of the Lamb," all of his pious
life, without ever meaning anything particularly sanguinary. He heard the war song of the revolution,
and being a literal and peth-headed man, prepared to defend the flag with all the ardor that
had burned in John Kollander's heart for fifty years.

"I tell you, Mr. Mayor, we need the troops. The Sheriff agrees with me--now you hear that,"
said young Joe. "Will you wait until some one is killed or worse, until a mine is flooded,
before sending for them?"

"You know, Ahab," put in old Joe, "the Governor said on the phone this morning, not to let
this situation get away from you."

The crowd was joining the singing. The words--the inspiring words of the labor chant had caught
the people on the sidewalk, and a great diapason was rising:

    "March on! March on!--all hearts resolved
      On victory or death."

"Hear that--hear that, Ahab!" cried old Joe. "Why, the decent people up town here are going
crazy--they're all singing it--and that little devil is waving a red flag with the white one!"

Ahab Wright looked and was aghast. "Doesn't that mean rebellion--anarchy--and bloodshed?" he
gasped.

"It means socialism," quoth young Joe, laconically, "which is the same thing."

"Well, well! my! my! Dear me," fretted Ahab, "we mustn't let this go on."

"Shall I get the Governor on the phone--you know we have the Sheriff's order here--just waiting
for you to join him?" asked young Joe.

The Haves were moving the realm of the discussion about their property from pure reason to
the baser emotions.

"Look, look!" cried the Mayor. "Grant Adams is standing on that platform--and those women have
to hold him up--it's shameful. Listen!"

"I want to say to my old neighbors and friends here in Harvey," cried Grant, "that in this
strike we shall try with all our might, with all our hearts' best endeavors, to do unto others
as we would have them do unto us. Our property in the mines and mills in this Valley, we shall
protect, just as sacredly as our partners on Wall Street would protect it. It is our property--we
are the legatees of the laborers who have piled it up. You men of Harvey know that these mines
represent little new capital. They were dug with the profits from the first few shafts. The
smelters rose from the profits of the first smelters in the district. Where capital has builded
with fresh investment--we make no specific claim, but where capital has builded here in this
district from profits made in the district--profits made by reason of cheating the crippled
and the killed, profits made by long deadly hours of labor, profits made by cooking men's lungs
on the slag dump, profits made by choking men to death, unrequited, in cement dust, profits
sweated out of the men at the glass furnaces--where capital has appropriated unjustly, we expect
to appropriate justly. We shall take nothing that we do not own. This is the beginning of the
rise of the Democracy of Labor--the dawn of the new day." He waved his arm and his steel claw
and chanted:

    "March on!--March on!--all hearts resolved,"

And in a wave of song the response came

    "To victory or death."

Grant Adams flaunted his black slouch hat; then he sprang from the platform, and hurried to
the front of the procession. The band struck up a lively tune and the long trail of white-clad
women and white-badged men became animate.

"Well, Ahab--you heard that? That is rebellion," said old Joe, squinting his mole-like eyes.
"What are you going to do about that--as the chief priest of law and order in this community?"

Five minutes later Ahab Wright, greatly impressed with the dignity of his position, and with
the fact that he was talking to so superior a person as a governor, was saying:

"Yes, your excellency--yes, I wanted to tell you of our conditions here in the Valley. It's
serious--quite serious." To the Governor's question the Mayor replied:

"No--no--not yet, but we want to prevent it. This man Adams--Grant Adams, you've heard about him--"

And then an instant later he continued, "Yes--that's the man, Governor--Dr. Nesbit's friend.
Well, this man Adams has no respect for authority, nor for property rights, and he's stirring
up the people."

Young Joe Calvin winked at his father and said during the pause,

"That's the stuff--the old man's coming across like a top."

Ahab went on: "Exactly--'false and seditious doctrines,' and I'm afraid, Governor, that it
will be wise to send us some troops."

The Calvins exchanged approving nods, and young Joe, having the enthusiasm of youth in his
blood, beat his desk in joyous approval of the trend of events.

"Oh, I don't know as to that," continued Ahab, answering the Governor. "We have about four
thousand men--perhaps a few more out. You know how many troops can handle them."

"Tell him we'll quarter them in the various plants, Ahab," cut in old Joe, and Ahab nodded
as he listened.

"Well, don't wait for the tents," he said. "Our people will quarter the men in the buildings
in the centers of the disturbance. Our merchants can supply your quartermaster with everything.
We have about a thousand policemen and deputy sheriffs--"

While the Mayor was listening to the Governor, Calvin senior said to his son, "Probably we'd
better punch him up with that promise about the provo marshal," and young Joe interrupted:

"And, Mr. Mayor, don't forget to remind him of the promise he made to Tom Van Dorn,--about me."

Ahab nodded and listened. "Wait," he said, putting his hand over the telephone receiver, and
added in a low voice to those in the room: "He was just talking about that and thinks he will
not proclaim martial law until there is actual violence--which he feels will follow the coming
of the troops, when the men see he is determined. He said then that he expected Captain Calvin
of the Harvey Company to take charge, and the Governor will speak to the other officers about
it." Ahab paused a moment for further orders. "Well," said the elder Calvin, "I believe that's
all."

"Will there be anything else to-day, Joe?" asked Ahab, unconsciously assuming his counter manner
to young Joe Calvin, who replied without a smile:

"Well--no--not to-day, thank you," and Ahab went back to the Governor and ended the parley.

The Times the next morning with flaring headlines announced that the Governor had decided to
send troops to the Wahoo Valley to protect the property in the mines and mills for the rightful
owners and to prevent any further incendiary speaking and rioting such as had disgraced Market
Street the day before. In an editorial the Governor was advised to proclaim martial law, as
only the strictest repression would prevent the rise of anarchy and open rebellion to the authorities.

The troops came on the early morning trains, and filed into the sheds occupied by the workmen
before the strike. The young militiamen immediately began pervading South Harvey, Foley and
Magnus, and when the strikers lined up before the gates and doors of their former working places
at seven o'clock that morning they met a brown line of youths--devil-may-care young fellows
out for a lark, who liked to prod the workmen with their bayonets and who laughingly ordered
the strikers to stop trying to keep the strike-breakers from going to work. The strikers were
bound by their pledges to the Trades Council not to touch the strike-breakers under any circumstances.
The strikers--white-badged and earnest-faced--made their campaign by lining up five on each
side of a walk or path through which the strike-breakers would have to pass to their work,
and crying:

"Help us, and we'll help you. Don't scab on us--keep out of the works, and we'll see that you
are provided for. Join us--don't turn your backs on your fellow workers."

They would stretch out their arms in mute appeal when words failed, and they brought dozens
of strike-breakers away from their work. And on the second morning of the strike not a wheel
turned in the district.

All morning Grant Adams moved among the men. He was a marked figure--with his steel claw--and
he realized that he was regarded by the militiamen as an ogre. A young militiaman had hurt
a boy in Magnus--pricked him in the leg and cut an artery. Grant tried to see the Colonel of
the company to protest. But the soldier had been to the officer with his story, and Grant was
told that the boy attacked the militiaman--which, considering that the boy was a child in his
early teens and the man was armed and in his twenties, was unlikely. But Grant saw that his
protests would not avail. He issued a statement, gave it to the press correspondents who came
flocking in with the troops, and sent it to the Governor, who naturally transferred it back
to the militiamen.

In the afternoon the parade started again--the women and children in white, and the men in
white coats and white working caps. It formed on a common between Harvey and South Harvey,
and instead of going into Harvey turned down into the Valley where it marched silently around
the quiet mills and shafts and to the few tenements where the strike-breakers were lodged.
A number of them were sitting at the windows and on the steps and when the strikers saw the
men in the tenements, they raised their arms in mute appeal, but spoke no word. Down the Valley
the procession hurried and in every town repeated this performance. The troops had gathered
in Harvey and were waiting, and it was not until after three o'clock that they started after
the strikers. A troop of cavalry overtook the column in Foley, and rode through the line a
few times, but no one spoke, and the cavalrymen rode along the line but did not try to break
it. So the third day passed without a fire in a furnace in the district.

That night Grant Adams addressed the strikers in Belgian Hall in South Harvey, in Fraternity
Hall in Magnus and on a common in Foley. The burden of his message was this: "Stick--stick
to the strike and to our method. If we can demonstrate the fact that we have the brains to
organize, to abandon force, to maintain ourselves financially, to put our cause before our
fellow workers so clearly that they will join us--we can win, we can enter into the partnership
in these mills that is ours by right. The Democracy of Labor is a Democracy of Peace--only
in peace, only by using the higher arts of peace under great provocation may we establish that
Democracy and come into our own. Stick--stick--stick to the strike and stick to the ways of
peace. Let them rally to their Colonels and their tin soldiers--and we shall not fear--for
we are gathered about the Prince of Peace."

The workmen always rose to this appeal and in Foley where the Letts had worked in the slag-dump,
one of them, who did not quite understand the association of words implied by the term the
Prince of Peace, cried:

"Hurrah for Grant, he is the Prince of Peace," and the good natured crowd laughed and cheered
the man's mistake.

But the Times the next morning contained this head:

    "Shame on Grant Adams, Trying to Inflame Ignorant Foreigners.
    Declares he is the Prince of Peace and gets Applause from his
    Excited Dupes--Will he Claim to be Messiah?"

It was a good story--from a purely sensational viewpoint, and it was telegraphed over the country,
that Grant Adams, the labor leader, was claiming to be a messiah and was rallying foreigners
to him by supernatural powers. The Times contained a vicious editorial calling on all good
citizens to stamp out the blasphemous cult that Adams was propagating. The editorial said that
the authorities should not allow such a man to speak on the streets maintained by tax-payers,
and that with the traitorous promises of ownership of the mines and mills backing up such a
campaign, rebellion would soon be stalking the street and bloodshed such as had not been seen
in America for a generation would follow. The names which the Times called Grant Adams indicated
so much malice, that Grant felt encouraged, and believed he had the strike won, if he could
keep down violence. So triumph flambeaued itself on his face. For two peaceful days had passed.
And peace was his signal of victory.

But during the night a trainload of strike-breakers came from Chicago. They were quartered
in the railroad yards, and Grant ordered a thousand pickets out to meet the men at daybreak.
Grant called out the groups of seven and each lodging house, tenement and car on the railroad
siding was parceled out to a group. Moreover, Grant threw his army into action by ordering
twenty groups into Sands Park, through which the strike-breaking smelter men would pass after
the pickets had spoken to the strike-breakers in their door yards. Lining the park paths, men
stood in the early morning begging working men not to go into the places made vacant by the
strike. In addition to this, he posted other groups of strikers to stand near the gates and
doors of the working places, begging the strike-breakers to join the strikers.

Grant Adams, in his office, was the motive power of the strike. By telephone his power was
transferred all over the district. Violet Hogan and Henry Fenn were with him. Two telephones
began buzzing as the first strikers went into Sands Park. Fenn, sitting by Grant, picked up
the first transmitter; Violet took the other. She took the message in shorthand. Fenn translated
a running jargon between breaths.

"Police down in Foley--Clubbing the Letts.--No bloodshed.--They are running back to their gardens."

"Tell the French to take their places," said Grant--"There are four French sevens--tell him
to get them out right away--but not to fight the cops. Militia there?"

"No," answered Fenn, "they are guarding the mill doors, and this happened in the streets near
the lodging houses."

"Mr. Adams," said Violet, reading, "there's some kind of a row in Sands Park. The cavalry is
there and Ira Dooley says to tell you to clear out the Park or there will be trouble."

"Get the boys on the phone, Violet, and tell them I said leave the Park, then, and go to the
shaft houses in Magnus--but to march in silence--understand?"

Fenn picked up the transmitter again, "What's that--what's that--" he cried. Then he mumbled
on, "He says the cops have ax-handles and that down by the smelters they are whacking our people
right and left--Three in an ambulance?--The Slavs won't take it? Cop badly hurt?" asked Fenn.

Grant Adams groaned, and put his head in his hand, and leaned on the desk. He rose up suddenly
with a flaming face and said: "I'm going down there--I can stop it."

He bolted from the room and rattled down the stairs. In a minute he came running up. "Violet--"
he called to the woman who was busy at the telephone--"shut that man off and order a car for
me quick--they've stolen my crank and cut every one of my tires. For God's sake be quick--I
must get down to those Slavs."

In a moment Violet had shut off her interviewer, and was calling the South Harvey Garage. Henry
Fenn, busy with his phone, looked up with a drawn face and cried:

"Grant--the Cossacks--the Cossacks are riding down those little Italians in Sands Park--chasing
them like dogs from the paths--they say the cavalry is using whips!"

Grant stood with bowed head and arched shoulders listening. The muscles of his jaw contracted,
and he snapped his teeth.

"Any one hurt?" he asked. Fenn, with the receiver to his ear went on, "The Dagoes are not fighting
back--the cavalrymen are shooting in the air, but--the lines are broken--the scabs are marching
to the mines through a line of soldiers--we've stopped about a third from the cars--they are
forming at the upper end of the Park--our men, they--"

"Good-by," shouted Grant, as he heard a motor car whirring in the distance.

Turning out of the street he saw a line of soldiers blocking his way. He had the driver turn,
and at the next corner found himself blocked in. Once more he tried, and again found himself
fenced in. He jumped from the car, and ran, head down, toward the line of young fellows in
khaki blocking the street. As he came up to them he straightened up, and, striking with his
hook a terrific blow, the bayonet that would have stopped him, Grant caught the youth's coat
in the steel claw, whirled him about and was gone in a second.

He ran through alleys and across commons until he caught a street car for the smelters. Here
he heard the roar of the riot. He saw the new ax-handles of the policemen beating the air,
and occasionally thudding on a man's back or head. The Slavs were crying and throwing clods
and stones. Grant ran up and bellowed in his great voice:

"Quit it--break away--there, you men. Let the cops alone. Do you want to lose this strike?"

A policeman put his hand on Grant's shoulder to arrest him. Grant brushed him aside.

"Break away there, boys," he called. The Slavs were standing staring at him. Several bloody
faces testified to the effectiveness of the ax-handles.

"Stand back--stand back. Get to your lines," he called, glaring at them. They fell under his
spell and obeyed. When they were quiet he walked over to them, and said gently:

"It's all right, boys--grin and bear it. We'll win. You couldn't help it--I couldn't either."
He smiled. "But try--try next time." The strike-breakers were huddled back of the policemen.

"Men," he shouted to the strike-breakers over the heads of the policemen, "this strike is yours
as well as ours. We have money to keep you, if you will join us. Come with us--comrades--Oh,
comrades, stand with us in this fight! Go in there and they'll enslave you--they'll butcher
you and kill you and offer you a lawsuit for your blood. We offer you justice, if we win. Come,
come," he cried, "fellow workers--comrades, help us to have peace."

The policemen formed a line into the door of the shaft house. The strike-breakers hesitated.
Grant approached the line of policemen, put up his arm and his maimed hand, lifted his rough,
broken face skyward and cried, "O--O--O, God, pour Thy peace into their hearts that they may
have mercy on their comrades."

A silence fell, the strike-breakers began to pass through the police lines to join the strikers.
At first only one at a time, then two. And then, the line broke and streamed around the policemen.
A great cheer went up from the street, and Grant Adams's face twitched and his eyes filled
with tears. Then he hurried away.

It was eight o'clock and the picketing for the day was done, when Grant reached his office.

"Well," said Fenn, who had Violet's notes before him, "it's considerably better than a dog
fall. They haven't a smelter at work. Two shafts are working with about a third of a force,
and we feel they are bluffing. The glass works furnaces are cold. The cement mills are dead.
They beat up the Italians pretty badly over in the Park."

The Times issued a noon extra to tell of the incident in front of the smelter, and expatiated
upon the Messianic myth. A tirade against Grant Adams in black-faced type three columns wide
occupied the center of the first page of the extra, and in Harvey people began to believe that
he was the "Mad Mullah" that the Times said he was.

When Dr. Nesbit drove his electric home that noon, he found his daughter waiting for him. She
stood on the front porch, with a small valise beside her. She was dressed in white and her
youthful skin, fresh lips, glowing eyes and heightened color made her seem younger than the
woman of forty that she was. Her father saw in her face the burning purpose to serve which
had come to indicate her moments of decision. The Doctor had grown used to that look of decision
and he knew that it was in some way related to South Harvey and the strike. For during her
years of work in the Valley, its interests had grown to dominate her life. But the Valley and
its interests had unfolded her soul to its widest reach, to its profoundest depths. And in
her features were blazoned, at times, all the love and joy and strength that her life had gathered.
These were the times when she wore what her father called "the Valley look." She had "the Valley
look" in her face that day when she stood waiting for her father with the valise beside her--a
beautiful woman.

"Father--now don't stop me, dear. I'm going to Grant. Mother will be home in a few days. I've
told Lila to stay with Martha Morton when you are not here. It's always secure and tranquil
up here, you know. But I'm going down in the Valley. I'm going to the strike."

"Going to the strike?" repeated her father.

"Yes," she answered, turning her earnest eyes upon him as she spoke. "It's the first duty I
have on earth--to be with my people in this crisis. All these years they have borne me up;
have renewed my faith; they have given me courage. Now is my turn, father. Where they go, I
go also." She smiled gently and added, "I'm going to Grant."

She took her father's hands. "Father--Oh, my good friend--you understand me--Grant and me?--don't
you? Every man in the crisis of his life needs a woman. I've been reading about Grant in the
papers. I can see what really has happened. But he doesn't understand how what they say happens,
for the next few days or weeks or months, while this strike is on, is of vastly more importance
than what really happens. He lacks perspective on himself. A woman, if she is a worthy friend--gives
that to a man. I'm going to Grant--to my good friend, father, and stand with him--very close,
and very true, I hope!"

Trouble moved over the Doctor's face in a cloud. "I don't know about Grant, Laura," he said.
"All this Messiah and Prince of Peace tomfoolery--and--"

"Why, you know it never happened, don't you, father? You know Grant is not a fool--nor mad?"

"Oh, I suppose so, Laura--but he approximates both at times," piped the father raspingly.

"Father--listen here--listen to me, dear. I know Grant--I've known him always. This is what
is the matter with Grant. I don't think one act in all his life was based on a selfish or an
ulterior motive. He has spent his life lavishly for others. He has given himself without let
or hindrance for his ideals--he gave up power and personal glory--all for this cause of labor.
He has been maimed and broken for it--has failed for it; and now you see what clouds are gathering
above him--and I must go to him. I must be with him."

"But for what good, Laura?" asked her father impatiently.

"For my own soul's good and glory, dear," she answered solemnly. "To live my faith; to stand
by the people with whom I have cast my lot; to share the great joy that I know is in Grant's
heart--the joy of serving; to triumph in his failure if it comes to that!--to be happy--with
him, as I know him no matter what chance and circumstance surround him. Oh--father--"

She looked up with brimming eyes and clasped his hand tightly while she cried: "I must go--Oh,
bless me as I go--" And the father kissed her forehead.

An hour later, while Grant Adams, in his office, was giving directions for the afternoon parade
a white-clad figure brightened the doorway.

"Well, Grant, I have come to serve," she smiled, "under you."

He turned and rose and took her hands in his one flinty hand and said quietly: "We need you--we
need you badly right this minute."

She answered, "Very well, then--I'm ready!"

"Well, go out and work--talk peace, don't let them fight, hold the line calm and we'll win,"
he said.

She started away and he cried after her, "Come to Belgian Hall to-night--we may need you there.
The strike committee and the leader of each seven will be there. It will be a war council."

Out to the works went Laura Van Dorn. Mounted policemen or mounted deputies or mounted militiamen
stood at every gate. As the strike-breakers came out they were surrounded by the officers of
the law, who marched away with the strangers. The strikers followed, calling upon their fellow
workers, stretching out pleading arms to them and at corners where the strikers were gathered
in any considerable numbers, the guards rode into the crowd waving their whips. At a corner
near the Park a woman stepped from the crowd and cried to the officers:

"That's my boy in there--I've got a right to talk to him."

She started to crowd between the horses, and the policemen thrust her back.

"Karl--Karl," she cried, "you come out of there; what would papa say--and you a scab."

She lifted her arms beseechingly and started toward the youth. A policeman cursed her and felled
her with a club.

She lay bleeding on the street, and the strikers stood by and ground their teeth. Laura Van
Dorn stooped over the woman, picked her up and helped her to walk home. But as she turned away
she saw five men walk out of the ranks of the strike-breakers and join the men on the corner.
A cheer went up, and two more came.

Belgian Hall was filled with workers that night--men and women. In front of the stage at a
long table sat the strike committee. Before them sat the delegates from the various "locals"
and the leaders of the sevens. A thousand men and women filled the hall--men and women from
every quarter of the globe. That night they had decided to admit the Jews from the Magnus paint
works--the Jews whom the Russians scorned, and the Lettish people distrusted. Behind all of
the delegates in a solid row around the wall stood the police, watching Grant Adams. He did
not sit with the strike committee but worked his way through the crowd, talking to a group
here and encouraging a man or woman there--but always restless, always fearing trouble. It
was nine o'clock when the meeting opened by singing "The International." It was sung in twenty
tongues, but the chorus swelled up and men and women wept as they sang.

    "Oh, the Brotherhood of men
      Shall be the human race."

Then the delegates reported. A Greek woman told how she had been chased by men on horseback
through the woods, in the Park. A Polack man showed a torn hand that had come under an ax-handle.
A Frenchman told how he had been pursued by a horseman while going for medicine for his sick
child. A Portuguese told how he had brought from the ranks of the strike-breakers a big fellow
worker whom he knew in New Jersey. The Germans reported that every one of their men in the
Valley was out and working in his garden. Over and over young girls told of insults they had
received. A mania of brutality seemed to have spread through the officers of the law. A Scotch
miner's daughter showed a tear in her dress made by a soldier's bayonet--

"'In fun,' he said, but I could see na joke."

In all the speeches there was a spirit of camaraderie--of fellowship, of love. "We are one
blood now," a Danish miner cried, in broken English, "we are all Americans, and America will
be a brotherhood--a brotherhood in the Democracy of Labor, under the Prince of Peace." A great
shout arose and the crowd called:

"Grant--Grant--Brother Grant."

But he stood by the table and shook his head. After a girl picket and a woman--one a Welsh
girl, the other a Manx miner's mother--had told how they were set upon in the Park by the soldiers,
up rose a pale, trembling woman from among the Hungarians, her brown, blotched face and her
big body made the men look down or away. She spoke in broken, uncertain English.

"We haf send to picket our men and yet our boys, and they beat them down. We haf our girls
send, and they come home crying. But I say to God this evening--Oh, is there nothing for me--for
me carrying child, and He whisper yais--these soldiers, he haf wife, he haf mother." She paused
and shook with fear and shame. "Then I say to you--call home your man--your girl so young,
and we go--we women with child--we with big bellies, filled with unborn--we go--O, my God,
He say we go, and this soldier--he haf wife, he haf mother--he will see;--we--we--they will
not strike us down. Send us, oh, Grant, Prince of Peace, to the picket line next morning."

Her voice broke and she sat down covering her head with her skirt and weeping in excitement.

"Let me go," cried a clear voice, as a brown-eyed Welsh woman rose. "I know ten others that
will go."

"I also," cried a German woman. "Let us organize to-night. We can have two hundred child-bearing
women!"

"Yes, men," spoke up a trim-looking young wife from among the glassworkers, "we of old have
been sacred--let us see if capital holds us sacred now--before property."

Grant leaned over to Laura and asked, "Would it do? Wouldn't they shame us for it?"

The eyes of Laura Van Dorn were filled with tears. They were streaming down her face.

"Oh, yes," she cried, "no deeper symbol of peace is in the earth than the child-bearing woman.
Let her go."

Grant Adams rose and addressed the chair: "Mr. Chairman--I move that all men and all women
except those chosen by these who have just spoken, be asked to keep out of the Park to-morrow
morning, that all the world may know how sacred we hold this cause and with what weapons of
peace we would win it."

So it was ordered, and the crowd sang the International Hymn again, and then the Marseillaise,
and went home dreaming high dreams.

As Grant and Laura walked from the hall, the last to leave the meeting, after the women had
finished making out their list of pickets, the streets were empty and they met--or rather failed
to meet, Mrs. Dick Bowman, with Mugs in tow, who crossed the street obviously to avoid Grant
and his companion.

Grant and Laura, walking briskly along and planning the next day's work, passed the smelters
where the soldiers were on sentry duty. They passed the shaft houses where Harvey militiamen
were bunked and guarded by sentinels. They passed the habiliments of war in a score of peaceful
places.

"Grant," cried Laura, "I really think now we'll win--that the strike of peace will prove all
that you have lived for."

"But if we fail," he replied, "it proves nothing--except perhaps that it was worth trying,
and will be worth trying and trying and trying--until it wins!"

It was half past twelve. Grant Adams, standing before the Vanderbilt House, talking with Henry
Fenn, was saying, "Well, Henry, one week of this--one week of peace--and the triumph of peace
will be--"

A terrific explosion shut his mouth. Across the night he saw a red glare a few hundred feet
away. An instant later it was dark again. He ran toward the place where the glare had winked
out. As he turned a corner, he saw stars where there should have been shaft house No. 7 of
the Wahoo Fuel Company's mines, and he knew that it had been destroyed. In it were a dozen
sleeping soldiers of the Harvey Militia Company, and it flashed through his mind that Lida
Bowman at last had spoken. Henry Fenn had tried to stop Grant from going so quickly, thinking
his presence at the scene would raise a question of his guilt, but he cried:

"They may need me, Henry--come on--what's a quibble of guilt when a life's to save?"

When they came to the pile of débris, they saw Dick Bowman coming up--barefooted, coatless
and breathless. Grant and Fenn had run less than fifteen hundred feet--Dick lived a mile from
the shaft house. Grant Adams's mind flashed suspicion toward the Bowmans. He went to Dick across
the wreckage and said:

"Oh, Dick--I'm sorry you didn't get here sooner."

"So am I--so am I," cried Dick, craning his long neck nervously.

"Where is Mugs?" asked Grant, as the two worked with a beam over a body--the body of handsome
Fred Kollander--lying near the edge of the litter.

"He's home in bed and asleep--and so's his mother, too, Grant, sound asleep."

During the first minutes after the explosion, men near by like Grant and Fenn came running
to the scene of the wrecked shaft by the scores, and as Grant and Dick Bowman spoke the streets
grew black with men, workmen, policemen, soldiers, citizens, men by the hundreds came hurrying
up. The great siren whistles of the water and light plants began to bellow; fire bells and
church bells up in Harvey began to ring, and Grant knew that the telephone was alarming the
town. Ten minutes after the explosion, while Grant was ordering his men in the crowd to organize
for the rescue, a militia colonel appeared, threw a cordon of men about the ruins and the police
and soldiers took charge, forcing Grant and his men away. The first few moments after he had
been thrust out of the relief work, Grant spent sending his men in the crowd to summon the
members of the Council; then he turned and hurried to his office in the Vanderbilt House. For
an hour he wrote. Henry Fenn came, and later Laura Van Dorn appeared, but he waved them both
to silence, and without telling them what he had written he went with them to the hall where
the Valley Council was waiting in a turmoil of excitement. It was after two o'clock. South
Harvey was a military camp. Thousands of citizens from Harvey were hurrying about. As he passed
along the street, the electric lights showed him little groups about some grief-stricken parent
or brother or sister of a missing militiaman. Automobiles were roaring through the streets
carrying officers, policemen, prominent citizens of Harvey. Ahab Wright and Joe Calvin and
Kyle Perry were in a car with John Kollander who had come down to South Harvey to claim the
body of his son, Fred. Grant saw the Sands's car with Morty in it supporting a stricken soldier.
The car was halted at the corner by the press of traffic, and as Grant and Laura and Henry
passed, Morty said under the din: "Grant--Grant, be careful--they are turning Heaven and earth
to find your hand in this; it will be only a matter of days--maybe only hours, until they will
have their witnesses hired!"

Grant nodded. The car moved on and Grant and his friends pressed through the throng to the
hall where the Valley Council was waiting. There Grant stood and read what he had written.
It ran thus:

"For the death by dynamite of the militiamen who perished at midnight in shaft No. 7 of the
Wahoo Fuel Company's mines, I take full responsibility. I have assumed a leadership in a strike
which caused these deaths. I shirk no whit of my share in this outrage. Yet I preached only
peace. I pleaded for orderly conduct. I appealed to the workers to take their own not by force
of arms but by the tremendous force of moral right. That ten thousand workers respected this
appeal, I am exceedingly proud. That one out of all the ten thousand was not convinced of the
justice of our cause and the ultimate triumph by the force of righteousness I am sorry beyond
words. I call upon my comrades to witness what a blow to our cause this murder has been and
to stand firm in the faith that the strike must win by ways of peace.

"Yet, whoever did this deed was not entirely to blame--however it may cripple his fellow-workers.
A child mangled in the mines denied his legal damages; men clubbed for telling of their wrongs
to their fellow-laborers who were asked to fill their places; women on the picket line, herded
like deer through the park by Cossacks whipping the fleeing creatures mercilessly; these things
inflamed the mind of the man who set off the bomb; these things had their share in the murder.

"But I knew what strikes were. I know indeed what strikes still are and what this strike may
be. I sorrow with those families whose boys perished by the bomb in shaft house No. 7. I grieve
with the families of those who have been beaten and broken in this strike. But by all this
innocent blood--blood shed by the working people--blood shed by those who ignorantly misunderstand
us, I now beg you, my comrades, to stand firm in this strike. Let not this blood be shed in
vain. It may be indeed that the men of the master class here have not descended as deeply as
we may expect them to descend. They may feel that more blood must be spilled before they let
us come into our own. But if blood is shed again, we must bleed, but let it not be upon our hands.

"Again, even in this breakdown of our high hopes for a strike without violence, I lift my voice
in faith, I hail the coming victory, I proclaim that the day of the Democracy of Labor is at
hand, and it shall come in peace and good will to all."

When he had finished reading his statement, he sat down and the Valley Council began to discuss
it. Many objected to it; others wished to have it modified; still others agreed that it should
be published as he had read it. In the end, he had his way. But in the hubbub of the discussion,
Laura Van Dorn, sitting near him, asked:

"Grant, why do you take all this on your shoulders? It is not fair, and it is not true--for
that matter."

He answered finally: "Well, that's what I propose to do."

He was haggard and careworn and he stared at the woman beside him with determination in his
eyes. But she would not give up. Again she insisted: "The people are inflamed--terribly inflamed
and in the morning they will be in no mood for this. It may put you in jail--put you where
you are powerless."

He turned upon her the stubborn, emotional face that she rarely had seen but had always dreaded.
He answered her:

"If anything were to be gained for the comrades by waiting--I'd wait." Then his jaws closed
in decision as he said: "Laura, that deed was done in blind rage by one who once risked his
life to save mine. Then he acted not blindly but in the light of a radiance from the Holy Ghost
in his heart! If I can help him now--can even share his shame with him--I should do it. And
in this case--I think it will help the cause to make a fair confession of our weakness."

"But, Grant," cried the woman, "Grant--can't you see that the murder of these boys--these Harvey
boys, the boys whose mothers and fathers and sweethearts and young wives and children are going
about the streets as hourly witnesses against you and our fellow-workers here--will arouse
a mob spirit that is dangerous?"

"Yes--I see that. But if anything can quell the mob spirit, frank, open-hearted confession
will do it." He brushed aside her further protests and in another instant was on his feet defending
his statement to the Valley Council. Ten minutes later the reporters had it.

At six o'clock in the morning posters covered South Harvey and the whole district proclaiming
martial law. They were signed by Joseph Calvin, Jr., provost marshal, and they denied the right
of assembly, except upon written order of the provost marshal, declared that incendiary speech
would be stopped, forbade parades except under the provost marshal's inspection, and said that
offenders would be tried by court-martial for all disobediences to the orders of the proclamation.
The proclamation was underscored in its requirements that no meeting of any kind might be held
in the district or on any lot or in any building except upon written consent of the owner of
the lot or building and with the permission of the provost marshal. Belgian Hall was a rented
hall, and the Wahoo Fuel Company controlled most of the available town lots, leaving only the
farms of the workers, that were planted thick with gardens, for even the most inoffensive meeting.

And at ten o'clock Grant Adams had signed a counter proclamation declaring that the proclamation
of martial law in a time of peace was an usurpation of the constitutional rights of American
citizens, and that they must refuse to recognize any authority that abridged the right of free
assemblage, a free press, free speech and a trial by jury. Amos Adams sent the workers an invitation
to meet in the grove below his house. Grant called a meeting for half-past twelve at the Adams
homestead. It was a direct challenge.

The noon extra edition of the Times, under the caption, "The Governor Is Right," contained
this illuminating editorial:

    "Seven men dead--dynamited to death by Grant Adams; seven men
    dead--the flower of the youth of Harvey; seven men dead for no
    crime but serving their country, and Grant Adams loose,
    poisoning the minds of his dupes, prating about peace in public
    and plotting cowardly assassination in private. Of course, the
    Governor was right. Every good citizen of this country will
    commend him for prompt and vigorous action. In less than an hour
    after the bomb had sent the seven men of the Harvey Home Guards
    to eternity, the Governor had proclaimed martial law in this
    district, and from now on, no more incendiary language, no more
    damnable riots, miscalled parades will menace property, and no
    more criminal acts done under the cover of the jury system will
    disgrace this community under the leadership of this creature
    Adams.

    "In his manifesto pulingly taking the blame for a crime last
    night so obviously his that mere denial would add blood to the
    crime itself, Adams says in extenuation that 'women were herded
    before the Cossacks like deer in the park,' while they were
    picketing. But he does not say that in the shameful cowardice so
    characteristic of his leadership in this labor war, he forced,
    by his own motion, women unfit to be seen in public, much less
    to fight his battles, under the hoofs of the horses in Sands
    Park this morning, and if the Greek woman, who claims she was
    dragooned should die, the fault, the crime of her death in
    revolting circumstances, will be upon Grant Adams's hands.

    "When such a leader followed by blind zealots like the riff-raff
    who are insanely trailing after this Mad Mullah who claims
    divine powers--save the mark--when such leaders and such human
    vermin as these rise in a community, the people who own
    property, who have built up the community, who have spent their
    lives making Harvey the proud industrial center that she is--the
    people who own property, we repeat, should organize to protect
    it. The Governor suspending while this warlike state exists the
    right of anarchists who turn it against law and order, the right
    of assembling, and speech and trial by jury, has set a good
    example. We hear from good authority that the Adams anarchists
    are to be aided by another association even more reckless than
    he and his, and that Greeley county will be flooded by bums and
    thugs and plug-uglies who will fill our jails and lay the burden
    of heavy taxes upon our people pretending to defend the rights
    of free speech.

    "A law and order league should be organized among the business
    men of Harvey to rid the county of these rats breeding social
    disease, and if courageous hearts are needed, and extraordinary
    methods necessary--all honest people will uphold the patriots
    who rally to this cause."

At twelve o 'clock crowds of working people began to swarm into Adams's grove. Five hundred
horsemen were lined up at the gate. Around a temporary speaker's stand a squad of policemen
was formed. The crowd stood waiting. Grant Adams did not appear. The crowd grew restless; it
began to fear that he had been arrested, that there had been some mishap. Laura Van Dorn, sensing
the uncertainty and discouragement of the crowd, decided to try to hold it. It seemed to her
as she watched the uneasiness rising slowly to impatience in the men and women about her, that
it was of much importance--tremendous importance indeed--to hold these people to their faith,
not especially in Grant, though to her that seemed necessary, too, but at bottom to hold their
faith firm in themselves, in their own powers to better themselves, to rise of their own endeavors,
to build upon themselves! So she walked quickly to the policeman before the steps leading to
the stand and said smilingly:

"Pardon me," and stepped behind him and was on the stand before he realized that he had been
fooled. Her white-clad figure upon the platform attracted a thousand eyes in a second, and
in a moment she was speaking:

"I am here to defend our ancient rights of meeting, speaking, and trial by jury." A policeman
started for her. She smiled and waved him back with such a dignity of mien that her very manner
stopped him.

When he hesitated, knowing that she was a person of consequence in Harvey, she went on: "No
cause can thrive until it maintains anew its right to speech, to assemble and to have its day
in court before a jury. Every cause must fight this world-old fight--and then if it is a just
cause, when it has won those ancient rights--which are not rights at all but are merely ancient
battle grounds on which every cause must fight, then any cause may stand a chance to win. I
think we should make it clear now that as free-born Americans, no one has a right to stop us
from meeting and speaking; no one has a right to deny us jury trials. I believe the time has
come when we should ignore rather definitely--" she paused, and turned to the policeman standing
beside her, "we should ignore rather finally this proclamation of the provost marshal and should
insist rather firmly that he shall try to enforce it."

A policeman stepped suddenly and menacingly toward her. She did not flinch. The dignity of
five generations of courtly Satterthwaites rose in her as she gazed at the clumsy officer.
She saw Grant Adams coming up at a side entrance to the grove. The policeman stopped. She desired
to divert the policeman and the crowd from Grant Adams. The crowd tittering at the quick halt
of the policeman, angered him. Again he stepped toward her. His face was reddening. The Satterthwaite
dignity mounted, but the Nesbit mind guided her, and she said coldly: "All right, sir, but
you must club me. I'll not give up my rights here so easily."

Three officers made a rush for her, grabbed her by the arms, and, struggling, she went off
the platform, but she left Grant Adams standing upon it and a cheering crowd saw the ruse.

"I'm here," he boomed out in his great voice, "because 'the woods were man's first temples'
and we'll hold them for that sacred right to-day." The police were waiting for him to put his
toe across the line of defiance. "We'll transgress this order of little Joe Calvin's--why,
he might as well post a trespass notice against snowslides as against this forward moving cause
of labor." His voice rose, "I'm here to tell you that under your rights as citizens of this
Republic, and under your rights in the coming Democracy of Labor, I bid you tear up these martial
law proclamations to kindle fires in your stoves."

He glared at the policemen and held up his hand to stop them as they came. "Listen," he cried,
"I'm going to give you better evidence than that against me. I, as the leader of this strike--take
this down, Mr. Stenographer, there--I'll say it slowly; I, as the leader of this movement of
the Democracy of Labor, as the preacher preaching the era of good will and comradeship all
over the earth, bid you, my fellow-workers, meet to preach Christ's workingman's gospel wherever
you can hire a hall or rent a lot, to parade your own streets, and to bare your heads to clubs
and your breasts to bullets if need be to restore in this district the right of trial by jury
in times of peace. And now,"--the crowd roared its approval. He glared defiance at the policemen.
He raised his voice above the din, "And now I want to tell you something more. Our property
in these mills and mines--" again the crowd bellowed its joyous approval of his words and Grant's
face lighted madly, "our property--the property we have earned, we must guard against the violence
of the very master class themselves; for under this infernal Russian ukase of little Joe Calvin,
the devil only knows what arson and loot and murder--" the crowd howled wildly; a policeman
blew his whistle and when the mêlée was over Grant Adams was in the midst of the blue-coated
squad marching toward the gate.

At the gate, on a pawing white horse, sat young Joe Calvin. The crowd, following the officers,
came upon the first squad of policemen--the squad that took Laura Van Dorn from the stand.
The two squads joined with their prisoners, and back of the officers came the yelling, hooting
crowd, pushing the officers along. As the officers came up, the provost marshal cried:

"Turn them over to my men here. Men, handcuff them together." In an instant it was done.

Then the cavalry formed in two lines, and between them marched Laura Van Dorn and Grant Adams,
manacled together. Up through the weed-grown commons between South Harvey and the big town
they marched under the broiling sun. The crowd trudged after them--trailing behind for the
most part, but often running along by the horsemen and calling words of sympathy to Grant or
reviling the soldiers.

Down Market Street they all came--soldiers, prisoners and straggling crowd. The town, prepared
by telephone for the sight, stood on the streets and hurrahed for Joe Calvin. He had brought
in his game, and if one trophy was a trifle out of caste for a prisoner, a bit above her station,
so much the worse for her. The blood of the seven dead soldiers was crying for vengeance in
Harvey--the middle-class nerve had been touched to the quick--and Market Street hooted at the
prisoners, and hailed Joe Calvin on his white charger as a hero of the day.

For the mind of a crowd is a simple mind. It draws no fine distinctions. It has no memory.
It enjoys primitive emotions, and takes the most rudimentary pleasures. The mind of the crowd
on Market Street in Harvey that bright, hot June day, when Joe Calvin on his white steed at
the head of his armed soldiers led Grant Adams and Laura Van Dorn up the street to the court
house, saw as plainly as any crowd could see anything that Grant Adams was the slayer of seven
mangled men, whose torn bodies the crowd had seen at the undertaker's. It saw death and violation
of property rights as the fruit of Grant Adams's revolution, and if this woman, who was of
Market Street socially, cared to lower herself to the level of assassins and thugs, she was
getting only her deserts.

So Grant and Laura passed through the ranks of men and women whom they knew and saw eyes turned
away that might have recognized them, saw faces averted to whom they might have looked for
sympathy--and saw what power on a white horse can make of a mediocre man!

But Grant was not interested in power on a white horse, nor was he interested in the woman
who marched with him. His face kept turning to the crowd from South Harvey that straggled beside
him outside of the line of horsemen about him. Now and then Grant caught the eyes of a leader
or of a friend and to such a one he would speak some earnest word of cheer or give some belated
order or message. Only once did Laura divert him from the stragglers along the way. It was
when Ahab Wright ducked his head and drew down his office window in the second story of the
Wright & Perry building. "At least," said Laura, "it's a lesson worth learning in human nature.
I'll know how much a smile is worth after this or the mere nod of a head. Not that I need it
to sustain me, Grant," she went on seriously, "so far as I'm concerned, but I can feel how
it would be to--well, to some one who needed it."

Under the murmur of the crowd, Laura continued: "I know exactly with what emotion pretty little
Mrs. Joe Calvin will hear of this episode."

"What?" queried Grant absently. His attention left her again, for the men from South Harvey
at whom he was directing volts of courage from his blazing eyes.

"Well--she'll be scared to death for fear mother and I will cut her socially for it! She's
dying to get into the inner circle, and she'll abuse little Joe for this--which," smiled Laura,
"will be my revenge, and will be badly needed by little Joe." But she was talking to deaf ears.

A street car halted them before Brotherton's store for a minute. Grant looked anxiously in
the door way, and saw only Miss Calvin, who turned away her head, after smiling at her brother.

"I wonder where George can be?" asked Grant.

"Don't you know?" replied Laura, looking wonderingly at him. "There's a little boy at their house!"

The crowd was hooting and cheering and the procession was just ready to turn into the court
house corner, when Grant felt Laura's quick hand clasp. Grant was staring at Kenyon, white
and wild-eyed, standing near them on the curb.

"Yes," he said in a low voice, "I see the poor kid."

"No--no," she cried, "look down the block--see that electric! There comes father, bringing
mother back from the depot--Oh, Grant--I don't mind for me, I don't mind much for father--but
mother--won't some one turn them up that street! Oh, Grant--Grant, look!"

Less than one hundred feet before them the electric runabout was beginning to wobble unsteadily.
The guiding hand was trembling and nervous. Mrs. Nesbit, leaning forward with horror in her
face, was clutching at her husband's arm, forgetful of the danger she was running. The old
Doctor's eyes were wide and staring. He bore unsteadily down upon the procession, and a few
feet from the head of the line, he jumped from the machine. He was an old man, and every year
of his seventy-five years dragged at his legs, and clutched his shaking arms.

"Joe Calvin--you devil," he screamed, and drew back his cane, "let her go--let her go."

The crowd stood mute. A blow from the cane cracked on the young legs as the Doctor cried:

"Oh, you coward--" and again lifted his cane. Joe Calvin tried to back the prancing horse away.
The blow hit the horse on the face, and it reared, and for a second, while the crowd looked
away in horror, lunged above the helpless old man. Then, losing balance, the great white horse
fell upon the Doctor; but as the hoofs grazed his face, Kenyon Adams had the old man round
the waist and flung him aside. But Kenyon went down under the horse. Calvin turned his horse;
some one picked up the fainting youth, and he was beside Mrs. Nesbit in the car a moment later,
a limp, unconscious thing. Grant and Laura ran to the car. Dr. Nesbit stood dazed and impotent--an
old man whose glory was of yesterday--a weak old man, scorned and helpless. He turned away
trembling with a nervous palsy, and when he reached the side of the machine, his daughter,
trying to hide her manacled hand, kissed him and said soothingly:

"It's all right, father--young Joe's vexed at something I said down in the Valley; he'll get
over it in an hour. Then I'll come home."

"And," gasped Mrs. Nesbit, "he--that whippersnapper," she gulped, "dared--to lay hands on you;
to--"

Laura shook her head, to stop her mother from speaking of the handcuff,--"to make you walk
through Market Street--while," but she could get no further. The crowd surrounded them. And
in the midst of the jostling and milling, the Doctor's instinct rose stronger than his rage.
He was fumbling for his medicine case, and trying to find something for Kenyon. The old hands
were at the young pulse, and he said unsteadily:

"He'll be around in a few minutes."

Some one in the crowd offered a big automobile. The Doctor got in, waved to his daughter, and
followed Mrs. Nesbit up the hill.

"You young upstart," he cried, shaking his fist at Calvin as the car turned around, "I'll be
down in ten minutes and see to you!" The provost marshal turned his white steed and began gathering
up his procession and his prisoners. But the spell was broken. The mind of the crowd took in
an idea. It was that a shameful thing was happening to a woman. So it hissed young Joe Calvin.
Such is the gratitude of republics.

In the court house, the provost marshal, sitting behind an imposing desk, decided that he would
hold Mrs. Van Dorn under $100 bond to keep the peace and release her upon her own recognizance.

"Well," she replied, "Little Joe, I'll sign no peace bond, and if it wasn't for my parents--I'd
make you lock me up."

Her hand was free as she spoke. "As it is--I'm going back to South Harvey. I'll be there until
this strike is settled; you'll have no trouble in finding me." She hurried home. As she approached
the house, she saw in the yard and on the veranda, groups of sympathetic neighbors. In the
hall way were others. Laura hurried into the Doctor's little office just as he was setting
Kenyon's broken leg and had begun to bind the splints upon it. Kenyon lay unconscious. Mrs.
Nesbit and Lila hovered over him, each with her hands full of surgical bandages, and cotton
and medicine. Mrs. Nesbit's face was drawn and anxious.

"Oh, mamma--mamma--I'm so sorry--so sorry--you had to see." The proud woman looked up from
her work and sniffed:

"That whippersnapper--that--that--" she did not finish. The Doctor drew his daughter to him
and kissed her. "Oh, my poor little girl--they wouldn't have done that ten years ago--"

"Father," interrupted the daughter, "is Kenyon all right?"

"Just one little bone broken in his leg. He'll be out from under the ether in a second. But
I'll--Oh, I'll make that Calvin outfit sweat; I'll--"

"Oh, no, you won't, father--little Joe doesn't know any better. Mamma can just forget to invite
his wife to our next party--which I won't let her do--not even that--but it would avenge my
wrongs a thousand times over."

Lila had Kenyon's hand, and Mrs. Nesbit was rubbing his brow, when he opened his eyes and smiled.
Laura and the Doctor, knowing their wife and mother, had left her and Lila together with the
awakening lover. His eyes first caught Mrs. Nesbit's who bent over him and whispered:

"Oh, my brave, brave boy--my noble--chivalrous son--"

Kenyon smiled and his great black eyes looked into the elder woman's as he clutched Lila's hand.

"Lila," he said feebly, "where is it--run and get it."

"Oh, it's up in my room, grandma--wait a minute--it's up in my room." She scurried out of the
door and came dancing down the stairs in a moment with a jewel on her finger. The grandmother's
eyes were wet, and she bent over and kissed the young, full lips into which life was flowing
back so beautifully.

"Now--me!" cried Lila, and as she, too, bent down she felt the great, strong arms of her grandmother
enfolding her in a mighty hug. There, in due course, the Doctor and Laura found them. A smile,
the first that had wreathed his wrinkled face for an hour, twitched over the loose skin about
his old lips and eyes.

"The Lord," he piped, "moves in a mysterious way--my dear--and if Laura had to go to jail to
bring it--the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away--blessed be--"

"Well, Kenyon," the grandmother interrupted the Doctor, stooping to put her fingers lovingly
upon his brow, "we owe everything to you; it was fine and courageous of you, son!"

And with the word "son" the Doctor knew and Laura knew, and Lila first of all knew that Bedelia
Nesbit had surrendered. And Kenyon read it in Lila's eyes. Then they all fell to telling Kenyon
what a grand youth he was and how he had saved the Doctor's life, and it ended as those things
do, most undramatically, in a chorus of what I saids, and you saids to me, and I thought, and
you did, and he should have done, until the party wore itself out and thought of Lila, sitting
by her lover, holding his hands. And then what with a pantomime of eyes from Laura and the
Doctor to Mrs. Nesbit, and what with an empty room in a big house, with voices far--exceedingly
far--obviously far away, it ended with them as all journeys through this weary world end, and
must end if the world wags on.

CHAPTER XLVIII

WHEREIN WE ERECT A HOUSE BUILT UPON A ROCK

That evening in the late twilight, two women stood at the wicket of a cell in the jail and
while back of the women, at the end of a corridor, stood a curious group of reporters and idlers
and guards, inside the wicket a tall, middle-aged man with stiff, curly, reddish hair and a
homely, hard, forbidding face stood behind the bars. The young woman put her hand with the
new ring on it through the wicket.

"It's Kenyon's ring--Kenyon's," smiled Lila, and to his questioning look at her mother, the
daughter answered: "Yes, grandma knows. And what is more, grandpa told us both--Kenyon and
me--what was bothering grandma--and it's all--all--right!"

The happy eyes of Laura Van Dorn caught the eyes of Grant as they gazed at her from some distant
landscape of his turbulent soul. She could not hold his eyes, nor bring them to a serious consideration
of the occasion. His heart seemed to be on other things. So the woman said: "God is good, Grant."
She watched her daughter and cast a glance at the shining ring. Grant Adams heard and saw,
but while he comprehended definitely enough, what he saw and heard seemed remote and he repeated:

"God is good--infinitely good, Laura!" His eyes lighted up. "Do you know this is the first
strike in the world--I believe, indeed the first enterprise in the world started and conducted
upon the fundamental theory that we are all gods. Nothing but the divine spark in those men
would hold them as they are held in faith and hope and fellowship. Look at them," he lifted
his face as one seeing Heavenly legions, "ten thousand souls, men and women and children, cheated
for years of their rights, and when they ask for them in peace, beaten and clubbed and killed,
and still they do not raise their hands in violence! Oh, I tell you, they are getting ready--the
time must be near." He shook his head in exultation and waved his iron claw.

Laura said gently, "Yes, Grant, but the day always is near. Whenever two or three are gathered--"

"Oh, yes--yes," he returned, brushing her aside, "I know that. And it has come to me lately
that the day of the democracy is a spiritual and not a material order. It must be a rising
level of souls in the world, and the mere dawn of the day will last through centuries. But
it will be nonetheless beautiful because it shall come slowly. The great thing is to know that
we are all--the wops and dagoes and the hombres and the guinnies--all gods! to know that in
all of us burns that divine spark which environment can fan or stifle--that divine spark which
makes us one with the infinite!" He threw his face upward as one who saw a vision and cried:
"And America--our America that they think is so sordid, so crass, so debauched with materialism--what
fools they are to think it! From all over the world for three hundred years men and women have
been hurrying to this country who above everything else on earth were charged with aspiration.
They were lowly people who came, but they had high visions; this whole land is a crucible of
aspirations. We are the most sentimental people on earth. No other land is like it, and some
day--oh, I know God is charging this battery full of His divine purpose for some great marvel.
Some time America will rise and show her face and the world will know us as we are!"

The girl, with eyes fascinated by her engagement ring, scarcely understood what the man was
saying. She was too happy to consider problems of the divine immanence. There was a little
mundane talk of Kenyon and of the Nesbits and then the women went away.

An hour later an old man sitting in the dusk with a pencil in his left hand, was startled to
see these two women descending upon him, to tell him the news. He kissed them both with his
withered lips, and rubbed the soft cheek of the maiden against his old gray beard.

And when they were gone, he picked up the pencil again, and sat dumbly waiting, while in his
heart he called eagerly across the worlds: "Mary--Mary, are you there? Do you know? Oh, Mary,
Mary!"

The funeral of the young men killed in the shaft house brought a day of deepening emotion to
Harvey. Flags were at half mast and Market Street was draped in crape. The stores closed at
the tolling of bells which announced the hour of the funeral services. Two hundred automobiles
followed the soldiers who escorted the bodies to the cemetery, and when the bugle blew taps,
tears stood in thousands of eyes.

The moaning of the great-throated regimental band, the shrilling of the fife and the booming
of the drum; the blare of the bugle that sounded taps stirred the chords of hate, and the town
came back from burying its dead a vessel of wrath. In vain had John Dexter in his sermon over
Fred Kollander tried to turn the town from its bitterness by preaching from the text, "Ye are
members one of another," and trying to point the way to charity. The town would have no charity.

The tragedy of the shaft house and the imprisonment of Grant Adams had staged for the day all
over the nation in the first pages of the newspapers an interesting drama. Such a man as Grant
Adams was a figure whose jail sentence under military law for defending the rights of a free
press, free speech, free assemblage and trial by jury, was good for a first page position in
every newspaper in the country--whatever bias its editorial columns might take against him
and his cause. Millions of eyes turned to look at the drama. But there were hundreds among
the millions who saw the drama in the newspapers and who decided they would like to see it
in reality. Being foot loose, they came. So when the funeral procession was hurrying back into
Harvey and the policemen and soldiers were dispersing to their posts, they fell upon half a
dozen travel-stained strangers in the court house yard addressing the loafers there. Promptly
the strangers were haled before the provost marshal, and promptly landed in jail. But other
strangers appeared on the streets from time to time as the freight trains came clanging through
town, and by sundown a score of young men were in the town lockup. They were happy-go-lucky
young blades; rather badly in need of a bath and a barber, but they sang lustily in the calaboose
and ate heartily and with much experience of prison fare. One read his paperbound Tolstoy;
another poured over his leaflet of Nietzsche, a third had a dog-eared Ibsen from the public
library of Omaha, a fourth had a socialist newspaper, which he derided noisily, as it was not
his peculiar cult of discontent; while others played cards and others slept, but all were reasonably
happy. And at the strange spectacle of men jail-bound enjoying life, Harvey marveled. And still
the jail filled up. At midnight the policemen were using a vacant storeroom for a jail. By
daybreak the people of the town knew that a plague was upon them.

Every age has its peculiar pilgrims, whose pilgrimages are reactions of life upon the times.
When the shrines called men answered; when the new lands called men hastened to them; when
wars called the trumpets woke the sound of hurrying feet--always the feet of the young men.
For Youth goes out to meet Danger in life as his ancient and ever-beloved comrade. So in that
distant epoch that closed half a decade ago, in a day when existence was easy; when food was
always to be had for the asking, when a bed was never denied to the weary who would beg it
the wide land over, there arose a band of young men with slack ideas about property, with archaic
ideas of morality--ideas perhaps of property and morals that were not unfamiliar to their elder
comrades of the quest and the joust, and the merry wars. These modern lads, pilgrims seeking
their olden, golden comrade Danger, sallied forth upon the highroads of our civilization, and
as the grail was found, and the lands were bounded and the journeys over and the trumpets seemed
to be forever muffled, these hereditary pilgrims of the vast pretense, still looking for Danger,
played blithely at seeking justice. It was a fine game and they found their danger in fighting
for free speech, and free assemblage. They were tremendously in earnest about it, even as the
good Don Quixote was with his windmills in the earlier, happier days. They were of the blithe
cult which wooes Danger in Folly in times of Peace and in treason when war comes.

And so Harvey in its wrath, in its struggle for the divine right of Market Street to rule,
Harvey fell upon these blithe pilgrims with a sad sincerity that was worthy of a better cause.
And the more the young men laughed, the more they played tricks upon the police, reading the
Sermon on the Mount to provoke arrest, reading the Constitution of the United States to invite
repression, even reading the riot act by way of diversion for the police, the more did the
wooden head of Market Street throb with rage and the more did the people imagine a vain thing.

And when seventy of them had crowded the jail, and their leaders blandly announced that they
would eat the taxes all out of the county treasury before they stopped the fight for free speech,
Market Street awoke. Eating taxes was something that Market Street could understand. So the
police began clubbing the strangers. The pilgrims were meeting Danger, their lost comrade,
and youth's blood ran wild at the meeting and there were riots in Market Street. A lodging
house in the railroad yards in South Harvey was raided one night--when the strike was ten days
old, and as it was a railroadmen's sleeping place, and a number of trainmen were staying there
to whom the doctrines of peace and non-resistance did not look very attractive under a policeman's
ax-handle--a policeman was killed.

Then the Law and Order League was formed. Storekeepers, clerks, real estate men, young lawyers,
the heart of that section of the white-shirted population whom Grant Adams called the "poor
plutes," joined this League. And deaf John Kollander was its leader. Partly because of his
bereavement men let him lead, but chiefly because his life's creed seemed to be vindicated
by events, men turned to him. The bloodshed on Market Street, the murder of a policeman and
the dynamiting of the shaft house with their sons inside, had aroused a degree of passion that
unbalanced men, and John Kollander's wrath was public opinion dramatized. The police gave the
Law and Order League full swing, and John Kollander was the first chief in the city. Prisoners
arrested for speaking without a permit were turned over to the Law and Order League at night,
and taken in the city auto-truck to the far limits of the city, and there--a mile from the
residential section, in the high weeds that fringed the town and confined the country, the
Law and Order League lined up under John Kollander and with clubs and whips and sticks, compelled
the prisoners to run a gauntlet to the highroad that leads from Harvey. Men were stripped,
and compelled to lean over and kiss an American flag--spread upon the ground, while they were
kicked and beaten before they could rise. This was to punish men for carrying a red flag of
socialism, and John Kollander decreed that every loyal citizen of Harvey should wear a flag.
To omit the flag was to arouse suspicion; to wear a red necktie was to invite arrest. It was
a merry day for blithe devotees of Danger; and they were taking their full of her in Harvey.

The Law and Order League was one of those strange madnesses to which any community may fall
a victim. Kyle Perry and Ahab Wright--with Jasper Adams a nimble echo, church men, fathers,
husbands, solid business men, were its leaders.

They endorsed and participated in brutalities, cowardly cruelties at which in their saner moments
they could only shudder in horror. But they made Jared Thurston chairman of the publicity committee
and the Times, morning after morning, fanned the passions of the people higher and higher.
"Skin the Rats," was the caption of his editorial the morning after a young fellow was tarred
and feathered and beaten until he lost consciousness and was left in the highway. The editorial
under this heading declared that anarchy had lifted its hydra head; that Grant Adams preaching
peace in the Valley was preparing to let in the jungle, and that the bums who were flooding
the city jail were Adams's tools, who soon would begin dynamiting and burning the town, when
it suited his purpose, while his holier-than-thou dupes in the Valley were conducting their
goody-goody strike.

Plots of dynamiting were discovered. Hardly a day passed for nearly a week that the big black
headlines of the Times did not tell of dynamite found in obviously conspicuous places--in the
court house, in the Sands opera house, in the schoolhouses, in the city hall. So Harvey grew
class conscious, property conscious, and the town went stark mad. It was the gibbering fear
of those who make property of privilege, and privilege of property, afraid of losing both.

But for a week and a day the motive power of the strike was Grant Adams's indomitable will.
Hour after hour, day after day he paced his iron floor, and dreamed his dream of the conquest
of the world through fellowship. And by the power of his faith and by the example of his imprisonment
for his faith, he held his comrades in the gardens, kept the strikers on the picket lines and
sustained the courage of the delegates in Belgian Hall, who met inside a wall of blue-coated
policemen. The mind of the Valley had reached a place where sympathy for Grant Adams and devotion
to him, imprisoned as their leader, was stronger than his influence would have been outside.
So during the week and a day, the waves of hate and the winds of adverse circumstance beat
upon the house of faith, which he had builded slowly through other years in the Valley, and
it stood unshaken. As he read the copy of Tolstoy's "The Resurrection," which his cell-mate
had left in his hurried departure the night before, Grant moved unconsciously to get into the
thin direct rays of the only sunlight--the early morning sunlight, that fell into his cage
during the long summer day. The morning Times lay on the floor where Grant had dropped it after
reading the account of what had happened to his cell-mate when the police had turned him over
to the Law and Order League, at midnight. To be sure, the account made a great hero of John
Kollander and praised the patriotism of the mob that had tortured the poor fellow. But the
fact of his torture, the fact that he had been tarred and feathered, and turned out naked on
the golf links of the country club, was heralded by the Times as a warning to others who came
to Harvey to preach Socialism, and flaunt the red flag. Grant felt that the jailer's kindness
in giving him the morning paper so early in the day, was probably inspired by a desire to frighten
him rather than to inform him of the night's events.

Gradually he felt the last warmth of the morning sun creep away and he heard a new step beside
the jailer's velvet footfall in the corridor, and heard the jailer fumbling with his keys and
heard him say: "That's the Adams cell there in the corner," and an instant later Morty Sands
stood at the door, and the jailer let him in as Grant said:

"Well, Morty--come right in and make yourself at home."

He was not the dashing young blade who for thirty years had been the Beau Brummel of George
Brotherton's establishment; but a rather weazened little man whose mind illumined a face that
still clung to sportive youth, while premature age was claiming his body.

He cleared his throat as he sat on the bunk, and after dropping Grant's hand and glancing at
the book title, said: "Great, isn't it? Where'd you get it?"

"The brother they ran out last night. They came after him so suddenly that he didn't have time
to pack," answered Grant.

"Well, he didn't need it, Grant," replied Morty. "I just left him. I got him last night after
the mob finished with him, and took him home to our garage, and worked with him all night fixing
him up. Grant, it's hell. The things they did to that fellow--unspeakable, and fiendish." Morty
cleared his throat again, paused to gather courage and went on. "And he heard something that
made him believe they were coming for you to-night."

The edge of a smile touched the seamed face, and Grant replied: "Well--maybe so. You never
can tell. Besides old John Kollander, who are the leaders of this Law and Order mob, Morty?"

"Well," replied the little man, "John Kollander is the responsible head, but Kyle Perry is
master of ceremonies--the stuttering, old coot; and Ahab gives them the use of the police,
and Joe Calvin backs up both of them. However," sighed Morty, "the whole town is with them.
It's stark mad, Grant--Harvey has gone crazy. These tramps filling the jails and eating up
taxes--and the Times throwing scares into the merchants with the report that unless the strike
is broken, the smelters and glassworks and cement works will move from the district--it's awful!
My idea of hell, Grant, is a place where every man owns a little property and thinks he is
just about to lose it."

The young-old man was excited, and his eyes glistened, but his speech brought on a fit of coughing.
He lifted his face anxiously and began: "Grant,--I'm with you in this fight." He paused for
breath. "It's a man's scrap, Grant--a man's fight as sure as you're born." Grant sprang to
his feet and threw back his head, as he began pacing the narrow cell. As he threw out his arms,
his claw clicked on the steel bars of the cell, and Morty Sands felt the sudden contracting
of the cell walls about the men as Grant cried--

"That's what it is, Morty--it's a man's fight--a man's fight for men. The industrial system
to-day is rotting out manhood--and womanhood too--rotting out humanity because capitalism makes
unfair divisions of the profits of industry, giving the workers a share that keeps them in
a man-rotting environment, and we're going to break up the system--the whole infernal profit
system--the blight of capitalism upon the world." Grant brought down his hand on Morty's frail
shoulder in a kind of frenzy. "Oh, it's coming--the Democracy of Labor is coming in the earth,
bringing peace and hope--hope that is the 'last gift of the gods to men'--Oh, it's coming!
it's coming." His eyes were blazing and his voice high pitched. He caught Morty's eyes and
seemed to shut off all other consciousness from him but that of the idea which obsessed him.

Morty Sands felt gratefully the spell of the strong mind upon him. Twice he started to speak,
and twice stopped. Then Grant said: "Out with it, Morty--what's on your chest?"

"Well,--this thing," he tapped his throat, "is going to get me, Grant, unless--well, it's a
last hope; but I thought," he spoke in short, hesitating phrases, then he started again. "Grant,
Grant," he cried, "you have it, this thing they call vitality. You are all vitality, bodily,
mentally, spiritually. Why have I been denied always, everything that you have! Millions of
good men and bad men and indifferent men are overflowing with power, and I--I--why, why can't
I--what shall I do to get it? How can I feel and speak and live as you? Tell me." He gazed
into the strong, hard visage looking down upon him, and cried weakly: "Grant--for God's sake,
help me. Tell me--what shall I do to--Oh, I want to live--I want to live, Grant, can't you
help me!"

He stopped, exhausted. Grant looked at him keenly, and asked gently,

"Had another hemorrhage this morning--didn't you?"

Morty looked over his clothes to detect the stain of blood, and nodded. "Oh, just a little
one. Up all night working with Folsom, but it didn't amount to anything."

Grant sat beside the broken man, and taking his white hand in his big, paw-like hand:

"Morty--Morty--my dear, gentle friend; your trouble is not your body, but your soul. You read
these great books, and they fascinate your mind. But they don't grip your soul; you see these
brutal injustices, and they cut your heart; but they don't reach your will." The strong hand
felt the fluttering pressure of the pale hand in its grasp. Morty looked down, and seemed about
to speak.

"Morty," Grant resumed, "it's your money--your soul-choking money. You've never had a deep,
vital, will-moving conviction in your life. You haven't needed this money. Morty, Morty," he
cried, "what you need is to get out of your dry-rot of a life; let the Holy Ghost in your soul
wake up to the glory of serving. Face life barehanded, consecrate your talents--you have enough--to
this man's fight for men. Throw away your miserable back-breaking money. Give it to the poor
if you feel like it; it won't help them particularly." He shook his head so vigorously that
his vigor seemed like anger, and hammered with his claw on the iron bunk. "Money," he cried
and repeated the word, "money not earned in self-respect never helps any one. But to get rid
of the damned stuff will revive you; will give you a new interest in life--will change your
whole physical body, and then--if you live one hour in the big soul-bursting joy of service
you will live forever. But if you die--die as you are, Morty--you'll die forever. Come." Grant
reached out his arms to Morty and fixed his luminous eyes upon his friend, "Come, come with
me," he pleaded. "That will cure your soul--and it doesn't matter about your body."

Morty's face lighted, and he smiled sympathetically; but the light faded. He dropped his gaze
to the floor and sighed. Then he shook his head sadly. "It won't work, Grant--it won't work.
I'm not built that way. It won't work."

His fine sensitive mouth trembled, and he drew a deep breath that ended in a hard dry cough.
Then he rose, held out his hand and said:

"Now you watch out, Grant--they'll get you yet. I tell you it's awful--that's the exact word--the
way hate has driven this town mad." He shook the cage door, and the jailer came from around
a corner, and unlocked the door, and in a moment Morty was walking slowly away with his eyes
on the cold steel of the cell-room floor.

When his visitor was gone, Grant Adams went back to his book. At the end of an hour he went
to the slit in his cell, which served as window, and looked on a damp courtyard that gave him
a narrow slice of Market Street and the Federal court house in the distance. Men and women
walking in and out of the little stereoscopic view he had of the street, seemed to the prisoner
people in a play, or in another world. They were remote from him. At the gestures they made,
the gaits they fell into, the errands they were going upon, the spring that obviously moved
them, he gazed as one who sees a dull pantomime. During the middle of the morning, as he looked,
he saw Judge Van Dorn's big, black motor car roll up to the curb before the Federal court house
and unload the spare, dried-up, clothes-padded figure of the Judge, who flicked out of Grant's
eyeshot. A hundred other figures passed, and Ahab Wright, with his white side-whiskers bristling
testily, came bustling across the stereopticon screen and turned to the court house and was
gone. Young Joe Calvin, dismounting from his white horse, came for a second into the picture,
and soon after the elder Calvin came trotting along beside Kyle Perry with his heavy-footed
gait, and the two turned as the Judge had turned--evidently into the court house, where the
Judge had his office.

Grant took up his book. After noon the jailer came with Henry Fenn, who, as Adams' attorney,
visited him daily. But the jailer stood by while the lawyer talked to the prisoner through
the bars. Henry Fenn wore a troubled face and Grant saw at once that his friend was worried.
So Grant began:

"So you've heard my cell-mate's message--eh, Henry? Well, don't worry. Tell the boys down in
the Valley, whatever they do--to keep off Market Street and out of Harvey to-night."

The listening jailer looked sharply at Fenn. It was apparent the jailer expected Fenn to protest.
But Fenn turned his radiant smile on the jailer and said: "The smelter men say they could go
through this steel as if it was pasteboard in ten minutes--if you'd say the word." Fenn grinned
at the prisoner as he added: "If you want the boys, all the tin soldiers and fake cops in the
State can't stop them. But I've told them to stay away--to stay in their fields, to keep the
peace; that it is your wish."

"Henry," replied Grant, "tell the boys this for me. We've won this fight now. They can't build
a fire, strike a pick, or turn a wheel if the boys stick--and stick in peace. I'm satisfied
that this story of what they will do to me to-night, while I don't question the poor chap who
sent the word--is a plan to scare the boys into a riot to save me and thus to break our peace
strike."

He walked nervously up and down his cell, clicking the bars with his claw as he passed the
door. "Tell the boys this. Tell them to go to bed to-night early; beware of false rumors, and
at all hazards keep out of Harvey. I'm absolutely safe. I'm not in the least afraid--and, Henry,
Henry," cried Grant, as he saw doubt and anxiety in his friend's face, "what if it's true;
what if they do come and get me? They can't hurt me. They can only hurt themselves. Violence
always reacts. Every blow I get will help the boys--I know this--I tell you--"

"And I tell you, young man," interrupted Fenn, "that right now one dead leader with a short
arm is worth more to the employers than a ton of moral force! And Laura and George and Nate
and the Doctor and I have been skirmishing around all day, and we have filed a petition for
your release on a habeas corpus in the Federal court--on the ground that your imprisonment
under martial law without a jury trial is unconstitutional."

"In the Federal court before Van Dorn?" asked Grant, incredulously.

"Before Van Dorn. The State courts are paralyzed by young Joe Calvin's militia!" returned Fenn,
adding: "We filed our petition this morning. So, whether you like it or not, you appear at
three-thirty o'clock this afternoon before Van Dorn."

Grant smiled and after a moment spoke: "Well, if I was as scared as you people, I'd--look here.
Henry, don't lose your nerve, man--they can't hurt me. Nothing on this earth can hurt me, don't
you see, man--why go to Van Dorn?"

Fenn answered: "After all, Tom's a good lawyer in a life job and he doesn't want to be responsible
for a decision against you that will make him a joke among lawyers all over the country when
he is reversed by appeal." Grant shook his dubious head.

"Well, it's worth trying," returned Fenn.

At three o'clock Joseph Calvin, representing the employers, notified Henry Fenn that Judge
Van Dorn had been called out of town unexpectedly and would not be able to hear the Adams'
petition at the appointed time. That was all. No other time was set. But at half-past five
George Brotherton saw a messenger boy going about, summoning men to a meeting. Then Brotherton
found that the Law and Order League was sending for its members to meet in the Federal courtroom
at half-past eight. He learned also that Judge Van Dorn would return on the eight o'clock train
and expected to hear the Adams' petition that night. So Brotherton knew the object of the meeting.
In ten minutes Doctor Nesbit, Henry Fenn and Nathan Perry were in the Brotherton store.

"It means," said Fenn, "that the mob is going after Grant to-night and that Tom knows it."

"Why?" asked the thin, sharp voice of Nathan Perry.

"Otherwise he would have let the case go over until morning."

"Why?" again cut in Perry.

"Because for the mob to attack a man praying for release under habeas corpus in a federal court
might mean contempt of court that the federal government might investigate. So Tom's going
to wash his hands of the matter before the mob acts to-night."

"Why?" again Perry demanded.

"Well," continued Fenn, "every day they wait means accumulated victory for the strikers. So
after Tom refuses to release Grant, the mob will take him."

"Well, say--let's go to the Valley with this story. We can get five thousand men here by eight
o'clock," cried Brotherton.

"And precipitate a riot, George," put in the Doctor softly, "which is one of the things they
desire. In the riot the murder of Grant could be easily handled and I don't believe they will
do more than try to scare him otherwise."

"Why?" again queried Nathan Perry, towering thin and nervous above the seated council.

"Well," piped the Doctor, with his chin on his cane, "he's too big a figure nationally for
murder--"

"Well, then--what do you propose, gentlemen?" asked Perry who, being the youngest man in the
council, was impatient.

Fenn rose, his back to the ornamental logs piled decoratively in the fireplace, and answered:

"To sound the clarion means riot and bloodshed--and failure for the cause."

"To let things drift," put in Brotherton, "puts Grant in danger."

"Of what?" asked the Doctor.

"Well, of indignities unspeakable and cruel torture," returned Brotherton.

"I'm sure that's all, George. But can't we--we four stop that?" said Fenn. "Can't we stand
off the mob? A mob's a coward."

"It's the least we can do," said Perry.

"And all you can do, Nate," added the Doctor, with the weariness of age in his voice and in
his counsel.

But when the group separated and the Doctor purred up the hill in his electric, his heart was
sore within him and he spoke to the wife of his bosom of the burden that was on his heart.
Then, after a dinner scarcely tasted, the Doctor hurried down town to meet with the men at
Brotherton's.

As Mrs. Nesbit saw the electric dip under the hill, her first impulse was to call up her daughter
on the telephone, who was at Foley that evening. For be it remembered Mrs. Nesbit in the days
of her prime was dubbed "the General" by George Brotherton, and when she saw the care and hovering
fear in the pink, old face of the man she loved, she was not the woman to sit and rock. She
had to act and, because she feared she would be stopped, she did not pick up the telephone
receiver. She went to the library, where Kenyon Adams with his broken leg in splints was sitting
while Lila read to him. She stood looking at the lovers for a moment.

"Children," she said, "Grant Adams is in great danger. We must help him."

To their startled questions, she answered: "He is asking your father, Lila, to release him
from the prison to-night. If he is not released, a mob will take Grant as they took that poor
fool last night and--" She stopped, turned toward them a perturbed and fear-wrinkled face.
Then she said quickly: "I don't know that I owe Grant Adams anything but--you children do--"
She did not complete her sentence, but burst out: "I don't care for Tom Van Dorn's court, his
grand folderol and mummery of the law. He's going to send a man to death to-night because his
masters demand it. And we must stop it--you and Lila and I, Kenyon."

Kenyon reached out, tried to rise and failed, but grasped her strong, effective hand, as he
cried: "What can we do--what can I do?"

She went into the Doctor's office and brought out two old crutches.

"Take these," she said, "then I'll help you down the porch steps--and you go to your mother!
That's what you can do. Maybe she can stop him--she has done a number of other worse things
with him."

She literally lifted the tottering youth down the veranda steps and a few moments later his
crutches were rattling upon the stone steps that rose in front of the proud house of Van Dorn.
Margaret had seen him coming and met him before he rang the bell.

She looked the dreadful wonder in her mind and as he took her hand to steady himself, he spoke
while she was helping him to sit.

"You are my mother," he said simply. "I know it now." He felt her hand tighten on his arm.
She bent over him and with finger on lips, whispered: "Hush, hush, the maid is in there--what
is it, Kenyon?"

"I want you to save Grant."

She still stood over him, looking at him with her glazed eyes shot with the evidence of a strong
emotion.

"Kenyon, Kenyon--my boy--my son!" she whispered, then said greedily: "Let me say it again--my
son!" She whispered the word "son" for a moment, stooping over him, touching his forehead gently
with her fingers. Then she cried under her breath: "What about that man--your--Grant? What
have I to do with him?"

He reached for her hands beseechingly and said: "We are asking your husband, the Judge, to
let him out of jail to-night, for if the Judge doesn't release Grant--they are going to mob
him and maybe kill him! Oh, won't you save him? You can. I know you can. The Judge will let
him out if you demand it."

"My son, my son!" the woman answered as she looked vacantly at him. "You are my son, my very
own, aren't you?"

She stooped to look into his eyes and cried: "Oh, you're mine"--her trembling fingers ran over
his face. "My eyes, my hair. You have my voice--O God--why haven't they found it out?" Then
she began whispering over again the words, "My son."

A clock chimed the half-hour. It checked her. "He'll be back in half an hour," she said, rising;
then--"So they're going to mob Grant, are they? And he sent you here asking me for mercy!"

Kenyon shook his head in protest and cried: "No, no, no. He doesn't even know--"

She looked at the young man and became convinced that he was telling the truth; but she was
sure that Laura Van Dorn had sent him. It was her habit of mind to see the ulterior motive.
So the passion of motherhood flaring up after years of suppression quickly died down. It could
not dominate her in her late forties, even for the time, nor even with the power which held
her during the night of the riot in South Harvey, when she was in her thirties. The passion
of motherhood with Margaret Van Dorn was largely a memory, but hate was a lively and material
emotion.

She fondled her son in the simulation of a passion that she did not feel--and when in his eagerness
he tried vainly to tie her to a promise to help his father, she would only reply:

"Kenyon, oh, my son, my beautiful son--you know I'd give my life for you--"

The son looked into the dead, brassy eyes of his mother, saw her drooping mouth, with the brown
lips that had not been stained that day; observed the slumping muscles of her over-massaged
face, and felt with a shudder the caress of her fingers--and he knew in his heart that she
was deceiving him. A moment after she had spoken the automobile going to the station for the
Judge backed out of the garage and turned into the street.

"You must go now," she cried, clinging to him. "Oh, son--son--my only son--come to me, come
to your mother sometimes for her love. He is coming now in a few minutes on the eight o'clock
train. You must not let him see you here."

She helped Kenyon to rise. He stumbled across the floor to the steps and she helped him gently
down to the lawn. She stood play-acting for him a moment in whisper and pantomime, then she
turned and hurried indoors and met the inquisitive maid servant with:

"Just that Kenyon Adams--the musician--awfully dear boy, but he wanted me to interfere with
the Judge for that worthless brother, Grant. The Nesbits sent him. You know the Nesbit woman
is crazy about that anarchist. Oh, Nadine, did Chalmers see Kenyon? You know Chalmers just
blabs everything to the Judge."

Nadine indicated that Chalmers had recognized Kenyon as he crawled up the veranda steps and
Mrs. Van Dorn replied: "Very well, I'll be ready for him." And half an hour later, when the
Judge drove up, his wife met him as he was putting his valise in his room:

"Dahling," she said as she closed the door, "that Kenyon Adams was over here, appealing to
me for his brother, Grant."

"Well?" asked the Judge contemptuously.

"You have him where we want him now, dahling," she answered. "If you refuse him his freedom,
the mob will get him. And oh, oh, oh," she cried passionately, "I hope they'll hang him, hang
him, higher'n Haman. That will take the tuck out of the old Nesbit cat and that other, his--his
sweetheart, to have her daughter marrying the brother of a man who was hanged! That'll bring
them down."

A flash across the Judge's face told the woman where her emotion was leading her. It angered her.

"So that holds you, does it? That binds the hands of the Judge, does it? This wonderful daughter,
who snubs him on the street--she mustn't marry the brother of a man who was hanged!" Margaret
laughed, and the Judged glowered in rage until the scar stood white upon his purple brow.

"Dahling," she leered, "remember our little discussion of Kenyon Adams's parentage that night!
Maybe our dear little girl is going to marry the son, the son," she repeated wickedly, "of
a man who was hanged!"

He stepped toward her crying: "For God's sake, quit! Quit!"

"Oh, I hope he'll hang. I hope he'll hang and you've got to hang him! You've got to hang him!"
she mocked exultingly.

The man turned in rage. He feared the powerful, physical creature before him. He had never
dared to strike her. He wormed past her and ran slinking down the hall and out of the door--out
from the temple of love, which he had builded--somewhat upon sand perhaps, but still the temple
of love. A rather sad place it was, withal, in which to rest the weary bones of the hunter
home from the hills, after a lifelong ride to hounds in the primrose hunt.

He stood for a moment upon the steps of the veranda, while his heart pumped the bile of hate
through him; and suddenly hearing a soft footfall, he turned his head quickly, and saw Lila--his
daughter. As he turned toward her in the twilight it struck him like a blow in the face that
she in some way symbolized all that he had always longed for--his unattainable ideal; for she
seemed young--immortally young, and sweet. The grace of maidenhood shone from her and she turned
an eager but infinitely wistful face up to his, and for a second the picture of the slim, white-clad
figure, enveloping and radiating the gentle eagerness of a beautiful soul, came to him like
the disturbing memory of some vague, lost dream and confused him. While she spoke he groped
back to the moment blindly and heard her say:

"Oh, you will help me now, this once, this once when I beg it; you will help me?" As she spoke
she clutched his arm. Her voice dropped to a whisper. "Father, don't let them murder him--don't,
oh, please, father--for me, won't you save him for me--won't you let him out of jail now?"

"Lila, child," the Judge held out his hand unsteadily, "it's not what I want to do; it's the
law that I must follow. Why, I can't do--"

"If Mr. Ahab Wright was in jail as Grant is and the workmen had the State government, what
would the law say?" she answered. Then she gripped his hands and cried: "Oh, father, father,
have mercy, have mercy! We love him so and it will kill Kenyon. Grant has been like a father
to Kenyon; he has been--"

"Tell me this, Lila," the Judge stopped her; he held her hands in his cold, hard palms. "Who
is Kenyon--who is his father--do you know?"

"Yes, I know," the daughter replied quietly.

"Tell me, then. I ought to know," he demanded.

"There is just one right by which you can ask," she began. "But if you refuse me this--by what
other right can you ask? Oh, daddy, daddy," she sobbed. "In my dreams I call you that. Did
you ever hear that name, daddy, daddy--I want you--for my sake, to save this man, daddy."

The Judge heard the words that for years had sounded in his heart. They cut deep into his being.
But they found no quick.

"Well, daughter," he answered, "as a father--as a father who will help you all he can--I ask,
then, who is Kenyon Adams's father?"

"Grant," answered the girl simply.

"Then you are going to marry an illegitimate--"

"I shall marry a noble, pure-souled man, father."

"But, Lila--Lila," he rasped, "who is his mother?"

Then she shrank away from him. She shook her head sadly, and withdrew her hands from his forcibly
as she cried:

"O father--father--daddy, have you no heart--no heart at all?" She looked beseechingly up into
his face and before he could reply, she seemed to decide upon some further plea. "Father, it
is sacred--very sacred to me, a beautiful memory that I carry of you, when I think of the word
'Daddy.' I have never, never, not even to mother, nor to Kenyon spoken of it. But I see you
young, and straight and tall and very handsome. You have on light gray clothes and a red flower
on your coat, and I am in your arms hugging you, and then you put me down, and I stand crying
'Daddy, daddy,' after you, when you are called away somewhere. Oh, then--then, oh, I know that
then--I don't know where you went nor anything, but then, then when I snuggled up to you, surely
you would have heard me if I had asked you what I am asking now."

The daughter paused, but the father did not answer at once. He looked away from her across
the years. In the silence Lila was aware that in the doorway back of her father, Margaret Van
Dorn stood listening. Her husband did not know that she was there.

"Lila," he began, "you have told me that Kenyon's father is Grant Adams, why do you shield
his mother?"

The daughter stood looking intently into the brazen eyes of her father, trying to find some
way into his heart. "Father, Grant Adams is before your court. He is the father of the man
whom I shall marry. You have a right to know all there is to know about Grant Adams." She shook
her head decisively. "But Kenyon's mother, that has nothing to do with what I am asking you!"
She paused, then cried passionately: "Kenyon's mother--oh, father, that's some poor woman's
secret, which has no bearing on this case. If you had any right on earth to know, I should
tell you; but you have no right."

"Now, Lila," answered her father petulantly--"look here--why do you get entangled with those
Adamses? They are a low lot. Girl, a Van Dorn has no business stooping to marry an Adams. Miserable
mongrel blood is that Adams blood child. Why the Van Dorns--" but Lila's pleading, wistful
voice went on:

"In all my life, father, I have asked you only this one thing, and this is just, you know how
just it is--that you keep my future husband's father from a cruel, shameful death. And--now--"
her voice was quivering, near the breaking point, and she cried: "And now, now you bring in
blood and family. What are they in an hour like this! Oh, father--father, would my daddy--the
fine, strong, loving daddy of my dreams do this? Would he--would he--oh, daddy--daddy--daddy!"
she cried, beseechingly.

Perhaps he could see in her face the consciousness that some one was behind him, for he turned
and saw his wife standing in the doorway. As he saw her, there rose in him the familiar devil
she always aroused, which in the first years wore the mask of love, but dropped that mask for
the sneer of hate. It was the devil's own voice that spoke, quietly, suavely, and with a hardness
that chilled his daughter's heart. "Lila, perhaps the secret of Kenyon's mother is no affair
of mine, but neither is Grant Adams's fate after I turn him back to the jailer, an affair of
mine. But you make Grant's affair mine; well, then--I make this secret an affair of mine. If
you want me to release Grant Adams--well, then, I insist." The gray features of his wife stopped
him; but he smiled and waved his hand grandly at the miserable woman, as he went on: "You see
my wife has bragged to me once or twice that she knows who Kenyon's mother is, Lila, and now--"

The daughter put her hands to her face and turned away, sick with the horror of the scene.
Her heart revolted against the vile intrigue her father was proposing. She turned and faced
him, clasping her hands in her anguish, lifted her burning face for a moment and stared piteously
at him, as she sobbed: "O dear, dear God--is this my father?" and shaking with shame and horror
she turned away.

"Adams," barked the court, "stand up!" With his black slouch hat in his hand, the petitioner
Adams rose. It was a hot night and he wiped his brow with a red handkerchief twisted about
his steel claw.

"Adams," began the court, laying down the typewritten manuscript, "I suppose you think you
are a martyr."

The court paused. Grant Adams made no reply. The court insisted:

"Well, speak up. Aren't you a martyr?"

"No," meeting the eye of the court, "I want to get out and get to work too keenly to be a martyr."

"To get to work," sneered the court. "You mean to keep others from going to work. Now, Adams,
isn't it true that you are trying to steal the property of this district from its legal owners
by riot and set yourself up as the head of your Democracy of Labor, to fatten on the folly
of the working men?" The court did not pause for a reply, but continued: "Now, Adams, there
is no merit to the contentions of your counsel in this hearing, but, even if there was mere
technical weight to his arguments, the moral issues involved, the vast importance of this ease
to the general welfare of this Republic, would compel this court to take judicial notice of
the logic of its decision in your favor. For it would release anarchy, backed by legal authority,
and strike down the arm of the State in protecting property and suppressing crime."

The court paused, and, taking its heavy spectacles in its fingers, twirled them before asking:
"Adams, do you think you are a God? What is this rot you're talking about the Prince of Peace?
What do you mean by saying nothing can hurt you? If you know nothing can hurt you, why do you
let your attorney plead the baby act and declare that, if you are not released to-night, a
mob will wait on you? If you are a God, why don't you help yourself--quell the mob, overcome
the devil?"

The crowd laughed and the court perfunctorily rapped for order. The laugh was frankincense
and myrrh to the court. So the court clearly showed its appreciation of its own fine sarcasm
as it rapped for order and continued insolently: "See here, Adams, if you aren't crazy, what
are you trying to do? What do you expect to get out of all this glib talk about the power of
spiritual forces and the peaceful revolution and the power greater than bullets and your fanatical
ranting about the Holy Ghost in the dupes you are inciting to murder? Come now, maybe you are
crazy? Maybe if you'd talk and not stand there like a loon--"

Again the crowd roared and again the court suppressed its chuckle and again order was restored.
"Maybe if you'd not stand there grouching, you'd prove to the court that you are crazy, and
on the grounds of insanity the court might grant your prayer. Come, now, Adams, speak up; go
the whole length. Give us your creed!"

"Well," began Adams, "since you want--"

"Don't you know how to address a court?" The court bellowed.

"To say 'Your honor' would be a formality which even your friends would laugh at," replied
Grant quietly. The crowd hissed; the court turned purple. Grant Adams stood rigid, with white
face and quivering muscles. His jaws knotted and his fist clenched. Yet when he spoke he held
his voice down. In it was no evidence of his tension. Facing for the first few moments of his
speech the little group of his friends--Dr. Nesbit, George Brotherton, Captain Morton, Nathan
Perry and Amos Adams--who sat at the lawyers' table with Henry Fenn, Grant Adams plunged abruptly
into his creed: "I believe that in every human adult consciousness there is a spark of altruism,
a divine fire, which marks the fatherhood of God and proves the brotherhood of man. Environment
fans that spark or stifles it. Its growth is evidenced in human institutions, in scales and
grades of civilization. Christ was a glowing flame of this fire." The court gave a knowing
wink to Ahab Wright, who grinned at the court's keen sense of humor. Adams saw the wink, but
proceeded: "That is what He means when He says: 'I am the resurrection and the life,' for only
as men and nations, races and civilization by their institutions fan that spark to fire, will
they live, will they conquer the forces of death ever within them."

Thus far Grant Adams had been speaking slowly, addressing himself more to his friends and the
court stenographer than the crowd. Now he faced the crowd defiantly as he let his voice rise
and cried: "This is no material world. Humanity is God trying to express Himself in terms of
justice--with the sad handicap of time and space ever holding the Eternal Spirit in check.
We are all Gods."

Again Market Street, which worshiped the god material, hissed. Grant turned to the men in the
benches a mad, ecstatic face and throwing his crippled arm high above his head, cried aloud:

"O men of Harvey, men with whom I have lived and labored, I would give my life if you could
understand me; if you could know in your hearts how passionately I yearn to get into your souls
the knowledge that only as you give you will have, only as you love these men of the mines
and mills, only as you are brothers to these ginks and wops and guinnies, will prosperity come
to Harvey. 'I am the resurrection and the life' should ring through your souls; for when brotherhood,
expressed in law and customs, gives these men their rightful share in the products of their
labor, our resurrected society will begin to live." He stopped dead still for a moment, gazing,
almost glaring, into the eyes of the crowd. Ahab Wright dropped his gaze. But John Kollander,
who heard nothing, glared angrily back. Then leaning forward and throwing out his claw as if
to grapple them, Grant Adams, let out his great voice in a cry that startled Market Street
into a shudder as he spoke. "Come, come, come with us and live, oh, men of Market Street, you
who are dead and damned! Come with us and live. 'I am the way and the life.'" He checked his
rising voice, then said: "Come, let us go forward together, for only then will God, striving
for justice in humanity, restore your dead and atrophied souls. Have faith that as you give
you will have; as you love, will you live." His manner changed again. The court was growing
restless. Grant's voice was low pitched, but it showed a heavy tension of emotion. He stretched
his hand as one pleading: "Oh, come with us. Come with us--your brothers. We are one body,
why should we have different aims? We are ten thousand here, you are many more. Perhaps we
are only dreaming a mad dream, but if you come with us we shall all awake from our dream into
a glorious reality."

Market Street laughed. John Kollander bawled: "He's an anarchist--a socialist!" Grant looked
at the deaf old man in his blue coat and brass buttons adorned with many little flags, to advertise
his patriotism. Taking a cue from John Kollander, Grant cried: "I am moving with the current
of Heavenly love, I am a part of that love that is washing into this planet from the infinite
source of life beyond our ken. I am moved, I know not how. I am inspired to act, I know not
whence. I go I know not where--only I have faith, faith that fears nothing, faith that tells
me that insomuch as I act in love, I am a part of the Great Purpose moving the universe, immortal,
all powerful, vital, the incarnation of Happiness! I am trying--trying--ah, God, how I am trying,
to bring into the world all the love that my soul will carry. I am--"

"That's enough," snapped the court; and turning to Joseph Calvin, Judge Van Dorn said: "That
man's crazy. This court has no jurisdiction over the insane. His family can bring a proceeding
in habeas corpus before the probate court of the county on the ground of the prisoner's insanity.
But I have no right to take judicial notice of his insanity." The Judge folded up his opinion,
twirled his heavy glasses a moment, blinked wisely and said: "Gentlemen, this is no case for
me. This is a crazy man. I wash my hands of the whole business!"

He rose, put away his glasses deliberately, and was stepping from his dais, when up rose big
George Brotherton and cried:

"Say, Tom Van Dorn--if you want this man murdered, say so. If you want him saved, say so. Don't
polly-fox around here, dodging the issue. You know the truth of the matter as well as--"

The court smiled tolerantly at the impetuous fellow, who was clearly in contempt of court.
The crowd waited breathlessly.

"Well, George," said the suave Judge with condescension in his tone as he strutted into the
group of lawyers and reporters about him, "if you know so much about this case, what is the
truth?" The crowd roared its approval. "But hire a hall, George--don't bother me with it. It's
out of my jurisdiction."

So saying, he elbowed his way out of the room into his office and soon was in his automobile,
driving toward the Country Club. He had agreed to be out of reach by telephone during the evening
and that part of the agreement he decided to keep.

After the Judge left the room Market Street rose and filed out, leaving Grant standing among
the little group of his friends. The sheriff stood near by, chatting with the jailer and as
Brotherton came up to bid Grant good-night, Brotherton felt a piece of paper slip into his
hands, when he shook hands with Grant. "Don't let it leave your pocket until you see me again,"
said Grant in a monotone, that no one noticed.

The group--Dr. Nesbit, Nathan Perry, George Brotherton and Captain Morton--stood dazed and
discouraged about Grant. No one knew exactly what note to strike--whether of anger or of warning
or of cheer. It was Captain Morton who broke the silence.

"'Y gory, man--free speech is all right, and I'm going to stay with you, boy, and fight it
out; but, Grant, things do look mighty shaky here, and I wonder if it's worth it--for that
class of people, eh?"

From the Captain, Nathan Perry took his cue. "I should say, Grant, that they'll make trouble
to-night. Shouldn't we call out the boys from the Valley, and--"

Grant cut in:

"Men, I know what you fear," he said. "You are afraid they will kill me. Why, they can't kill
me! All that I am that is worth living is immortal. What difference does it make about this
body?" His face was still lighted with the glow it wore while he was addressing the court.
"Ten thousand people in the Valley have my faith. And now I know that even this strike is not
important. The coming Democracy of Labor is a spiritual caste. And it has been planted in millions
of minds. It can never die. It too is immortal. What have guns and ropes and steel bars to
do with a vision like this?" He threw back his head, his blue eyes blazed and he all but chanted
his defiance of material things: "What can they do to me, to my faith, to us, to these Valley
people, to the millions in the world who see what we see, who know what we know and strive
for what we cherish? Don't talk to me about death--there is no death for God's truth. As for
this miserable body here--" He gazed at his friends for a moment, shook his head sadly and
walked to the jailer.

For an hour after the sheriff took Grant to his cell as the town went home and presumably to
bed, George Brotherton with Henry Fenn and Nathan Perry, rolled his car around the court house
square in the still, hot June night. The Doctor stood by his electric runabout, for half an
hour or more. Then, the Doctor feeling that a false alarm had been spread, whirred up the hill.
The younger men stayed on Market Street. They left it long after midnight, deserted and still.

As the watching party broke up, a telephone message from the offices of Calvin & Calvin winged
its way to Sands Park, and from the shades there came silently a great company of automobiles
with hooded lights. One separated from the others and shot down into the Valley of the Wahoo.
The others went into Market Street.

At three o'clock the work there was done. The office of the Harvey Tribune was wrecked, and
in one automobile rode Amos Adams, a prisoner, while before him, surrounded by a squad of policemen,
rode Grant Adams, bound and gagged.

Around the policemen the mob gathered, and at the city limits the policemen abandoned Grant
and Amos. Their instructions were to take the two men out of town. The policemen knew the mob.
It was not Market Street. It was the thing that Market Street had made with its greed. The
ignorance of the town, the scum of the town--men, white and black, whom Market Street, in thoughtless
greed the world over, had robbed as children of their birthright; men whose chief joy was in
cruelty and who lusted for horror. The mob was the earth-bound demon of Market Street. Only
John Kollander in his brass buttons and blue soldier clothes and stuttering Kyle Perry and
one or two others of the town's respectability were with the mob that took Grant Adams and
his father after the policemen released the father and son at the city limits. The respectables
directed; the scum and the scruff of the town followed, yelping not unlike a pack of hungry dogs.

John Kollander led the way to the country club grounds. There was a wide stretch of rolling
land, quiet, remote from passing intruders, safe; and there great elm trees cast their protecting
shade, even in the starlight, over such deeds as men might wish to do in darkness.

It was nearly four o'clock and the clouds, banked high in the west, were flaming with heat
lightning.

On the wide veranda of the country club alone, with a siphon and a fancy, square, black bottle,
sat Judge Thomas Van Dorn. He was in his shirt sleeves. His wilted collar, grimy and bedraggled,
lay on the floor beside him. He was laughing at something not visible to the waiter, who sat
drowsing in the door of the dining room, waiting for the Judge either to go to sleep or to
leave the club in his car. The Judge had been singing to himself and laughing quietly at his
own ribaldry for nearly an hour. The heat had smothered the poker game in the basement and
except for the Judge and the waiter the club house was deserted. The Judge hit the table with
the black bottle and babbled:

    "Dog bit a rye straw,
      Dog bit a riddle-O!
    Dog bit a little boy
      Playing on a fiddle-O!"

Then he laughed and said to the sleepy waiter: "Didn't know I could sing, did you, Gustave!"

The waiter grinned. The Judge did not hear a footstep behind him. The waiter looked up and
saw Kyle Perry.

    "Oh, I know a maid
      And she's not afraid
        To face--

"Why, hello Kyle, you old stuttering scoundrel--have one on me--cleanses the teeth--sweetens
the breath and makes hair grow on your belly!"

He laughed and when Kyle broke in:

"S-s-say, T-T-Tom, the f-f-fellows are all over in the g-g-golf l-l-links."

"The hell they are, Kyle," laughed the Judge. "Tell 'em to come over and have a cold one on
me--Gustave, you go--"

"B-b-but they d-don't want a drink. The p-p-poker b-b-bunch said you were here and th-th-they
s-s-sent m-m-me to--"

"S-s-s-sure they d-d-did, Kyle," interrupted Van Dorn. "They sent you to read the Declaration
of Independence to-morrow and wanted you to begin now and get a g-g-good st-st-start!" He broke
into song:

    "Oh, there was an old man from Dundee
      Who got on a hell of a spree,
    Oh, he wound up the clock,
      With--

"Say, Kyle," the Judge looked up foolishly, "you didn't know that I was a cantatrice." He laughed
and repeated the last word slowly three times and then giggled.

"Still sober. I tell Mrs. Van Dorn that when I can say cantatrice or specification," he repeated
that word slowly, "I'm fit to hold court."

    "Oh, the keyhole in the door--
    The keyhole in the door--"

he bellowed.

"Now, l-l-listen, T-T-Tom," insisted Perry. "I t-t-tell you the bunch has g-g-got Grant Adams
and the old man out there in the g-g-golf l-links and they heard you were h-h-here and they
s-s-sent me to tell you they were g-g-going to g-g-give him all the d-d-degrees and they w-w-want
to t-t-tie a s-s-sign on him when they t-t-turn him loose and h-h-head him for Om-m-ma-h-ha--"

"B-b-better h-h-h-head him for h-h-hell," mocked the Judge.

"Well, they've g-got an iron b-b-band they've b-b-bound on h-h-him and they've got a b-b-board
and some t-t-tar and they w-w-want a m-motto."

The Judge reached for his fountain pen in his white vest and when the waiter had brought a
sheet of paper, he scribbled while he sang sleepily:

    "Oh, there was a man and he could do,
    He could do--he could do;

"Here," he pushed the paper to Perry, who saw the words:

    "Get on to the Prince of Peace,
    Big Boss of the Democracy of Labor."

"That's k-k-kind of t-t-tame, don't y-y-you think?" said Kyle.

"That's all right, Kyle--anyway, what I've written goes:

    "Oh, there was an old woman in Guiana."

He sang and waved Kyle proudly away. And in another hour the waiter had put him to bed.

                   *       *       *       *       *

It was nearly dawn when George Brotherton had told his story to Laura. They sat in the little,
close, varnish-smelling room to which he called her.

She had come through rain from Harvey. As she came into the dreary, shabby, little room in
South Harvey, with its artificial palms and artificial wreaths--cheap, commercial habiliments
of ostentatious mourning, Laura Van Dorn thought how cruel it was that he should be there,
in a public place at the end, with only the heavy hands of paid attendants to do the last earthly
services for him--whose whole life was a symbol of love.

But her heart was stricken, deeply, poignantly stricken by the great peace she found behind
the white door. Yet thus the dust touches our souls' profoundest depths--always with her memory
of that great peace, comes the memory of the odor of varnish and carbolic acid and the drawn,
spent face of George Brotherton, as he stood before her when she closed the door. He gazed
at her piteously, a wreck of a man, storm-battered and haggard. His big hands were shaking
with a palsy of terrible grief. His moon face was inanimate, and vagrant emotions from his
heart flicked across his features in quivers of anguish. His thin hair was tousled and his
clothes were soiled and disheveled.

"I thought you ought to know, Laura--at once," he said, after she had closed the white door
behind her and sat numb and dumb before him. "Nate and Henry and I got there about four o'clock.
Well, there they were--by the big elm tree--on the golf course. His father was there and he
told me coming back that when they wanted Grant to do anything--they would string up Amos--poor
old Amos! They made Grant stoop over and kiss the flag, while they kicked him; and they made
him pull that machine gun around the lake. The fools brought it up from the camp in South Harvey."
Brotherton's face quivered, but his tears were gone. He continued: "They strung poor old Amos
up four times, Laura--four times, he says." Brotherton looked wearily into the street. "Well,
as we came down the hill in our car, we could see Grant. He was nearly naked--about as he is
now. We came tearing down the hill, our siren screaming and Nate and me yelling and waving
our guns. At the first scream of our siren, there was an awful roar and a flash. Some one,"
Brotherton paused and turned his haggard eyes toward Laura--"it was deaf John Kollander, he
turned the lever and fired that machine gun. Oh, Laura, God, it was awful. I saw Grant wilt
down. I saw--"

The man broke into tears, but bit his lips and continued: "Oh, they ran like snakes then--like
snakes--like snakes, and we came crashing down to the tree and in a moment the last machine
had piked--but I know 'em, every man-jack!" he cried. "There was the old man, tied hand and
foot, three yards from the tree, and there, half leaning, half sitting by the tree, the boy,
the big, red-headed, broken and crippled boy--was panting his life out." Brotherton caught
her inquiring eyes. "It was all gone, Laura," he said softly, "all gone. He was the boy, the
shy, gentle boy that we used to know--and always have loved. All this other that the years
have brought was wiped from his eyes. They were so tender and--" He could go no further. She
nodded her understanding. He finally continued: "The first thing he said to me was, 'It's all
right, George.' He was tied, they had pulled the claw off and his poor stumped arm was showing
and he was bleeding--oh, Laura."

Brotherton fumbled in his pocket and handed an envelope to her.

"'George,' he panted, as I tried to make him comfortable--'have Nate look after father.' And
when Nate had gone he whispered between gasps, 'that letter there in the court room--' He had
to stop a moment, then he whispered again, 'is for her, for Laura.' He tried to smile, but
the blood kept bubbling up. We lifted him into an easier position, but nothing helped much.
He realized that and when we quit he said:

"'Now then, George, promise me this--they're not to blame. John Kollander isn't to blame. It
was funny; Kyle Perry saw him as I did, and Kyle--' he almost laughed, Laura.

"'Kyle,' he repeated, 'tried to yell at old John, but got so excited stuttering, he couldn't!
I'm sure the fellows didn't intend--' he was getting weak; 'this,' he said.

"'Promise me and make--others; you won't tell. I know father--he won't. They're not--it's--society.
Just that,' he said. 'This was society!' He had to stop. I felt his hand squeeze. 'I'm--so--happy,'
he said one word at a time, gripping my hand tighter and tighter till it ached." Brotherton
put out his great hand, and looked at it impersonally, as one introducing a stranger for witness.
Then Brotherton lifted his eyes to Laura's and took up his story:

"'That's hers,' he said; 'the letter,' and then 'my messages--happy.'"

The woman pressed her letter to her lips and looked at the white door. She rose and, holding
her letter to her bosom, closed her eyes and stood with a hand on the knob. She dropped her
hand and turned from the white door. The dawn was graying in the ugly street. But on the clouds
the glow of sunrise blushed in promise. She walked slowly toward the street. She gazed for
a moment at the glorious sky of dawn.

When her eyes met her friend's, she cried:

"Give me your hand--that hand!"

She seized it, gazed hungrily at it a second, then kissed it passionately. She looked back
at the white door, and shook with sobs as she cried:

"Oh, you don't think he's there--there in the night--behind the door? We know--oh, we do know
he's out here--out here in the dawn."

CHAPTER LI

IN WHICH WE END AS WE BEGAN AND ALL LIVE HAPPILY EVER AFTER

The great strike in the Wahoo Valley now is only an episode in the history of this struggle
of labor for its rights. The episode is receding year by year further and more dimly into the
past and is one of the long, half-forgotten skirmishes wherein labor is learning the truth
that only in so far as labor dares to lean on peace and efficiency can labor move upward in
the scale of life. The larger life with its wider hope, requires the deeper fellowship of men.
The winning or losing of the strike in the Wahoo meant little in terms of winning or losing;
but because the men kept the peace, kept it to the very end, the strike meant much in terms
of progress. For what they gained was permanent; based on their own strength, not on the weakness
of those who would deny them.

But the workers in the mines and mills of the Wahoo Valley, who have gone to and from their
gardens, planting and cultivating and harvesting their crops for many changing seasons, hold
the legend of the strong man, maimed and scarred, who led them in that first struggle with
themselves, to hold themselves worthy of their dreams. In a hundred little shacks in the gardens,
and in dingy rooms in the tenements may be found even to-day newspaper clippings pinned to
the wall with his picture on them, all curled up and yellow with years. Before a wash-stand,
above a bed or pasted over the kitchen stove, soiled and begrimed, these clippings recall the
story of the man who gave his life to prove his creed. So the fellowship he brought into the
world lives on.

And the fellowship that came into the world as Grant Adams went out of it, touched a wider
circle than the group with whom he lived and labored. The sad sincerity with which he worked
proved to Market Street that the man was consecrated to a noble purpose, and Market Street's
heart learned a lesson. Indeed the lives of that long procession of working men who have given
themselves so freely--where life was all they had to give--for the freedom of their fellows
from the bondage of the times, the lives of these men have found their highest value in making
the Market Street eternal, realize its own shame. So Grant Adams lay down in the company of
his peers that Market Street might understand in his death what his fellows really hoped for.
He was a seed that is sown and falls upon good ground. For Market Street after all is not a
stony place; seeds sown there bring forth great harvests. And while the harvest of Grant Adams's
life is not at hand; the millennium is not here; the seed is quickening in the earth. And great
things are moving in the world.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Of course, there came a time in Harvey, even in the house of Nesbit, when there was marrying
and giving in marriage. It was on a winter's night when the house inside the deep, dark Moorish
verandas, celebrating Mrs. Nesbit's last bout with the spirit of architecture, glowed with
a jewel of light.

And in due course they appeared, Rev. Dr. John Dexter leading the way, followed by a thin,
dark-skinned young man with eyes to match and a rather slight, shortish girl, blond and pink
with happy trimmings and real pearls on her eyelashes. The children jabbered, and the women
wept and the men wiped their eyes, and it was altogether a gay occasion. Just as the young
people were ready to look the world squarely in the face, George Brotherton, thinking he heard
some one moving outside in the deep, dark veranda, flicked on the porch light, and through
the windows he saw--and the merry company could not help seeing two faces--two wan, unhappy
faces, staring hungrily in at the bridal pair. They stood at different corners of the house
and did not seem to know of one another's presence until the light revealed them. Only an instant
did their faces flash into the light, as John Dexter was reading from the Bible a part of the
service that he loved to put in, "and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of Heaven."
The faces vanished, there was a scurrying across the cement floor of the veranda and two figures
met on the lawn in shame and anger.

But they in the house did not know of the meeting. For everybody was kissing everybody else,
and the peppermint candy in little Grant Brotherton's mouth tasted on a score of lips in three
minutes, and a finger dab of candy on Jasper Adams's shirt front made the world akin.

After the guests had gone, three old men lingered by the smoldering logs. "Well, now, Doc Jim,"
asked Amos, "why shouldn't I? Haven't I paid taxes in Greeley County for nearly fifty years?
Didn't I make the campaign for that home in the nineties, when they called it the poor house--most
people call it that now. I only stay there when I am lonesome and I go out in a taxi-cab at
the county's expense like a gentleman to his estate. And I guess it is my estate. I was talking
to Lincoln about it the other night, and he says he approves. Ruskin says I am living my religion
like a diamond in the rock."

To the Captain's protest he answered, "Oh, yes, I know that--but that would be charity. My
pencils and shoestrings and collar buttons and coat hangers keep me in spending money. I couldn't
take charity even from you men. And Jasper's money," the gray poll wagged, and he cried, "Oh,
no--not Ahab Wright's and Kyle Perry's--not that money. Kenyon is forever slipping me fifty.
But I don't need it. John Dexter keeps a room always ready for me, and I like it at the Dexters'
almost as much as I do at the county home. So I don't really need Kenyon's money, however much
joy he takes in giving it. And I raise the devil's own fuss to keep him from doing it."

The Doctor puffed, and the Captain in his regal garments paraded the long room, with his hands
locked under his coattails.

"But, Amos," cried the Captain, "under the law, no man wearing that button," and the Captain
looked at the tri-color of the Loyal Legion, proudly adorning the shiny coat, "no soldier under
the law, has to go out there. They've got to keep you here in town, and besides you're entitled
to a whopping lot of pension money for all these unclaimed years."

The white old head shook and the pursed old lips smiled, as the thin little voice replied,
"Not yet, Ezra--not yet--I don't need the pension yet. And as for the Home--it's not lonesome
there. A lot of 'em are bedfast and stricken and I get a certain amount of fun--chirping 'em
up on cloudy days. They like to hear from Emerson and John A. Logan, and Sitting Bull and Huxley
and their comrades. So I guess I'm being more or less useful." He stroked his scraggy beard
and looked at the fire. "And then," he added, "she always seems nearer where there is sorrow.
Grant, too, is that way, though neither of 'em really has come."

The Captain finding that his money was ashes in his hands, and not liking the thought and meditation
of death, changed the subject, and when the evening was old, Amos Adams called a taxi-cab,
and at the county's expense rode home.

At the end of a hard winter day, descending tardily into the early spring, they missed him
at the farm. No one knew whether he had gone to visit the Dexters, as was his weekly wont,
or whether he was staying with Captain Morton in town, where he sometimes spent Saturday night
after the Grand Army meeting.

The next day the sun came out and melted the untimely snow banks. And some country boys playing
by a limestone ledge in a wide upland meadow above the Wahoo, far from the smoke of town, came
upon the body of an old man. Beside him was strewn a meager peddler's kit. On his knees was
a tablet of paper; in his left hand was a pencil tightly gripped. On the tablet in a fine,
even hand were the words: "I am here, Amos," and his old eyes, stark and wide, were drooped,
perhaps to look at the tri-color of the Loyal Legion that shone on his shrunken chest and told
of a great dream of a nation come true, or perhaps in the dead, stark eyes was another vision
in another world.

And so as in the beginning, there was blue sky and sunshine and prairie grass at the end.

CHAPTER LII

NOT EXACTLY A CHAPTER BUT RATHER A Q E D OR A HIC FABULA DOCET

"And the fool said in his heart, there is no God!" And this fable teaches, if it teaches anything,
that the fool was indeed a fool. Now do not think that his folly lay chiefly in glutting his
life with drab material things, with wives and concubines, with worldly power and glory. That
was but a small part of his folly. For that concerned himself. That turned upon his own little
destiny. The vast folly of the fool came with his blindness. He could not see the beautiful
miracle of progress that God has been working in this America of ours during these splendid
fifty years that have closed a great epoch.

And what a miracle it was! Here lay a continent--rich, crass, material, beckoning humanity
to fall down and worship the god of gross and palpable realities. And, on the other hand, here
stood the American spirit--the eternal love of freedom, which had brought men across the seas,
had bid them fight kings and principalities and powers, had forced them into the wilderness
by the hundreds of thousands to make of it "the homestead of the free"; the spirit that had
called them by the millions to wage a terrible civil war for a great ideal.

This spirit met the god of things as they are, and for a generation grappled in a mighty struggle.

And men said: The old America is dead; America is money mad; America is a charnel house of
greed. Millions and millions of men from all over the earth came to her shores. And the world
said: They have brought only their greed with them. And still the struggle went on. The continent
was taken; man abolished the wilderness. A new civilization rose. And because it was strong,
the world said it was not of the old America, but of a new, soft, wicked order, which wist
not that God had departed from it.

Then the new epoch dawned; clear and strong came the call to Americans to go forth and fight
in the Great War--not for themselves, not for their own glory, nor their own safety, but for
the soul of the world. And the old spirit of America rose and responded. The long inward struggle,
seen only by the wise, only by those who knew how God's truth conquers in this earth, working
beneath the surface, deep in the heart of things, the long inward struggle of the spirit of
America for its own was won.

So it came to pass that the richness of the continent was poured out for an ideal, that the
genius of those who had seemed to be serving only Mammon was devoted passionately to a principle,
and that the blood of those who came in seeming greed to America was shed gloriously in the
high emprise which called America to this new world crusade. Moses in the burning bush speaking
with God, Saul on the road to Damascus, never came closer to the force outside ourselves which
makes for righteousness,--the force that has guided humanity upward through the ages,--than
America has come in this hour of her high resolve. And yet for fifty years she has come into
this holy ground steadily, and unswervingly; indeed, for a hundred years, for three hundred
years from Plymouth Rock to the red fields of France, America has come a long and perilous
way--yet always sure, and never faltering.

To have lived in the generation now passing, to have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord
in the hearts of the people, to have watched the steady triumph in our American life of the
spirit of justice, of fellowship over the spirit of greed, to have seen the Holy Ghost rise
in the life of a whole nation, was a blessed privilege. And if this tale has reflected from
the shallow paper hearts of those phantoms flitting through its pages some glimpse of their
joy in their pilgrimage, the story has played its part. If the fable of Grant Adams's triumphant
failure does not dramatize in some way the victory of the American spirit--the Puritan conscience--in
our generation, then, alas, this parable has fallen short of its aim. But most of all, if the
story has not shown how sad a thing it is to sit in the seat of the scornful, and to deny the
reality of God's purpose in this world, even though it is denied in pomp and power and pride,
then indeed this narrative has failed. For in all this world one finds no other place so dreary
and so desolate as it is in the heart of a fool.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR

God's Puppets

By WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE

Cloth, 12mo, with Frontispiece, $1.35

"Five capital stories full of scorn for hypocrisy, meanness and anti-social types of character,
and of equal admiration for men who are clean, straight and generous. The book has the tone
and purpose of Mr. White's 'A Certain Rich Man.' It has also humor and a closely drawn picture
of small town conditions in the Middle West."--Outlook.

"Literature that is lifelike in essence, moral without being hypocritical, dramatic without
being theatricalized, inspiring without being preachy."--New York Sun.

The Old Order Changeth

By WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE

Cloth, 12mo, $1.25

This is a collection of stirring essays on topics of present-day interest. Opening with a discussion
of the former democracy of this country, the author considers the beginnings of the change,
the cause and certain definite tendencies in American democracy.

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

Publishers--64-66 Fifth Avenue--New York

NEW FALL FICTION

H. G. WELLS' NEW NOVEL.

JOAN AND PETER. "The Story of an Education."

By H. G. Wells. With frontispiece.

$1.75.

A NEW NOVEL BY WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE.

IN THE HEART OF A FOOL. By William

Allen White, author of "A Certain Rich Man."

With frontispiece. $1.60.

EDEN PHILLPOTTS' NEW NOVEL.

THE SPINNERS. By Eden Phillpotts, author of "Brunel's Tower," "Old Delabole," etc.

NEW JACK LONDON STORIES.

THE RED ONE. By Jack London, author of "The Call of the Wild," etc. With frontispiece.

A SEA STORY BY MCFARLAND.

SKIPPER JOHN OF THE NIMBUS. By Raymond McFarland. With frontispiece. $1.50.

A NOVEL BY ZÖE BECKLEY.

A CHANCE TO LIVE. By Zoë Beckley. With illustrations.

ONCE ON THE SUMMER RANGE. By Francis Hill.

"Honest from first to last.... Resembles 'Innocents Abroad' in scheme and laughter ... a vivid
picture of Europe at this hour. Should be thrice blessed, for man and book light up a world
in the gloom of war."--New York Sun.

"A unique chronicle, genuine and sincere."--New York Times.

Here is a book of truth and humor. One of the first stories by an American that tell what America
has done and is doing "over there." It is a tale such as Mark Twain would have written had
he lived to do his bit in France.

Two "short, fat, bald, middle-aged, inland Americans" cross over to France with commissions
from the Red Cross. Their experiences are told in a bubbling humor that is irresistible. The
sober common sense and the information about the work going on in France--the way our men take
hold and the French respond--go to make this the book all Americans have long been waiting for.

The inimitable sketches of Tony Sarg, distributed throughout, lend a clever, human atmosphere
to the text.

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

Publishers--64-66 Fifth Avenue--New York

A Certain Rich Man

By WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE

Author of "What's the Matter with Kansas?"

Cloth, 12mo, $1.50

The absorbing story of the career of a remarkable money-maker and his associates. A powerful
book full of United States life and colour, taking front rank among the best modern novels.

"This novel has a message for to-day, and for its brilliant character drawing, and that gossipy
desultory style of writing that stamps Mr. White's literary work, will earn a high place in
fiction. It is good and clean and provides a vacation from the cares of the hour. It resembles
a Chinese play, because it begins with the hero's boyhood, describes his long, busy life, and
ends with his death. Its tone is often religious, never flippant, and one of its best assets
is its glowing descriptions of the calm, serene beauties of nature. Its moral is that a magnate
never did any real good with money."--Oregonian, Portland, Oregon. One of these men is Mr.
White. His Kansas boys are a delight, and the recollections they will awaken in the mind of
any man will cause him to congratulate himself for having read the book.

IN OUR TOWN

Illustrated--Cloth--12mo--$1.50

Mr. White suggests Barrie more than any other living writer. His new book does for the daily
life of a modern Kansas town just what Barrie has done for a Scotch town in "A Window in Thrums."

"It is 'Boyville' grown up; better because more skilfully and deftly done; riper, because 'Bill'
is a bigger boy now than he was five years ago, and more human. No writer to-day handles the
small town life to compare with White, and this is the best book he has yet done."--Los Angeles
Herald.

STRATAGEMS AND SPOILS

Illustrated--Cloth--12mo--$1.50

There are hours and days and long years in the lives of men and women wherein strong passions
are excited and great human interests are at stake. The ambition for power, the greed for money,
the desire to win the game, the hunger for fame, parental love, anger, friendship, hate, and
revenge--the primitive passions that move men and the world powerfully--certainly these deserve
as important a place in the chronicles of the human animal as does the mating instinct. It
is with this idea in mind that Mr. White has set the stories in this volume in the field of
American politics, where every human emotion finds free play.

PUBLISHED BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY--64-66 Fifth Avenue, New York