For the auctioneer's pulpit is just the peculiar place where a man of social refinement, of
elegant wit, of polite perceptions, can bring his wit, his eloquence, his taste, and his experience
of life, most delightfully into play. It is not like the bar, where the better and higher qualities
of a man of fashion find no room for exercise. In defending John Jorrocks in an action of trespass,
for cutting down a stick in Sam Snooks's field, what powers of mind do you require?--powers
of mind, that is, which Mr. Serjeant Snorter, a butcher's son with a great loud voice, a sizar
at Cambridge, a wrangler, and so forth, does not possess as well as yourself? Snorter has never
been in decent society in his life. He thinks the bar-mess the most fashionable assemblage
in Europe, and the jokes of "grand day" the ne plus ultra of wit. Snorter lives near Russell
Square, eats beef and Yorkshire-pudding, is a judge of port-wine, is in all social respects
your inferior. Well, it is ten to one but in the case of Snooks v. Jorrocks, before mentioned,
he will be a better advocate than you; he knows the law of the case entirely, and better probably
than you. He can speak long, loud, to the point, grammatically--more grammatically than you,
no doubt, will condescend to do. In the case of Snooks v. Jorrocks he is all that can be desired.
And so about dry disputes, respecting real property, he knows the law; and, beyond this, has
no more need to be a gentleman than my body-servant has--who, by the way, from constant intercourse
with the best society, IS almost a gentleman. But this is apart from the question.

Now, in the matter of auctioneering, this, I apprehend, is not the case, and I assert that
a high-bred gentleman, with good powers of mind and speech, must, in such a profession, make
a fortune. I do not mean in all auctioneering matters. I do not mean that such a person should
be called upon to sell the good-will of a public-house, or discourse about the value of the
beer-barrels, or bars with pewter fittings, or the beauty of a trade doing a stroke of so many
hogsheads a week. I do not ask a gentleman to go down and sell pigs, ploughs, and cart-horses,
at Stoke Pogis; or to enlarge at the Auction-Rooms, Wapping, upon the beauty of the "Lively
Sally" schooner. These articles of commerce or use can be better appreciated by persons in
a different rank of life to his.

But there are a thousand cases in which a gentleman only can do justice to the sale of objects
which the necessity or convenience of the genteel world may require to change hands. All articles
properly called of taste should be put under his charge. Pictures,--he is a travelled man,
has seen and judged the best galleries of Europe, and can speak of them as a common person
cannot. For, mark you, you must have the confidence of your society, you must be able to be
familiar with them, to plant a happy mot in a graceful manner, to appeal to my lord or the
duchess in such a modest, easy, pleasant way as that her grace should not be hurt by your allusion
to her--nay, amused (like the rest of the company) by the manner in which it was done.

What is more disgusting than the familiarity of a snob? What more loathsome than the swaggering
quackery of some present holders of the hammer? There was a late sale, for instance, which
made some noise in the world (I mean the late Lord Gimcrack's, at Dilberry Hill). Ah! what
an opportunity was lost there! I declare solemnly that I believe, but for the absurd quackery
and braggadocio of the advertisements, much more money would have been bid; people were kept
away by the vulgar trumpeting of the auctioneer, and could not help thinking the things were
worthless that were so outrageously lauded.

They say that sort of Bartholomew-fair advocacy (in which people are invited to an entertainment
by the medium of a hoarse yelling beef-eater, twenty-four drums, and a jack-pudding turning
head over heels) is absolutely necessary to excite the public attention. What an error! I say
that the refined individual so accosted is more likely to close his ears, and, shuddering,
run away from the booth. Poor Horace Waddlepoodle! to think that thy gentle accumulation of
bricabrac should have passed away in such a manner! by means of a man who brings down a butterfly
with a blunderbuss, and talks of a pin's head through a speaking-trumpet! Why, the auctioneer's
very voice was enough to crack the Sevres porcelain and blow the lace into annihilation. Let
it be remembered that I speak of the gentleman in his public character merely, meaning to insinuate
nothing more than I would by stating that Lord Brougham speaks with a northern accent, or that
the voice of Mr. Shell is sometimes unpleasantly shrill.

Now the character I have formed to myself of a great auctioneer is this. I fancy him a man
of first-rate and irreproachable birth and fashion. I fancy his person so agreeable that it
must be a pleasure for ladies to behold and tailors to dress it. As a private man he must move
in the very best society, which will flock round his pulpit when he mounts it in his public
calling. It will be a privilege for vulgar people to attend the hall where he lectures; and
they will consider it an honor to be allowed to pay their money for articles the value of which
is stamped by his high recommendation. Nor can such a person be a mere fribble; nor can any
loose hanger-on of fashion imagine he may assume the character. The gentleman auctioneer must
be an artist above all, adoring his profession; and adoring it, what must he not know? He must
have a good knowledge of the history and language of all nations; not the knowledge of the
mere critical scholar, but of the lively and elegant man of the world. He will not commit the
gross blunders of pronunciation that untravelled Englishmen perpetrate; he will not degrade
his subject by coarse eulogy or sicken his audience with vulgar banter. He will know where
to apply praise and wit properly; he will have the tact only acquired in good society, and
know where a joke is in place, and how far a compliment may go. He will not outrageously and
indiscriminately laud all objects committed to his charge, for he knows the value of praise;
that diamonds, could we have them by the bushel, would be used as coals; that above all, he
has a character of sincerity to support; that he is not merely the advocate of the person who
employs him, but that the public is his client too, who honors him and confides in him. Ask
him to sell a copy of Raffaelle for an original; a trumpery modern Brussels counterfeit for
real old Mechlin; some common French forged crockery for the old delightful, delicate, Dresden
china; and he will quit you with scorn, or order his servant to show you the door of his study.

Study, by the way,--no, "study" is a vulgar word; every word is vulgar which a man uses to
give the world an exaggerated notion of himself or his condition. When the wretched bagman,
brought up to give evidence before Judge Coltman, was asked what his trade was, and replied
that "he represented the house of Dobson and Hobson," he showed himself to be a vulgar, mean-souled
wretch, and was most properly reprimanded by his lordship. To be a bagman is to be humble,
but not of necessity vulgar. Pomposity is vulgar, to ape a higher rank than your own is vulgar,
for an ensign of militia to call himself captain is vulgar, or for a bagman to style himself
the "representative" of Dobson and Hobson. The honest auctioneer, then, will not call his room
his study; but his "private room," or his office, or whatever may be the phrase commonly used
among auctioneers.

He will not for the same reason call himself (as once in a momentary feeling of pride and enthusiasm
for the profession I thought he should)--he will not call himself an "advocate," but an auctioneer.
There is no need to attempt to awe people by big titles: let each man bear his own name without
shame. And a very gentlemanlike and agreeable, though exceptional position (for it is clear
that there cannot be more than two of the class,) may the auctioneer occupy.

He must not sacrifice his honesty, then, either for his own sake or his clients', in any way,
nor tell fibs about himself or them. He is by no means called upon to draw the long bow in
their behalf; all that his office obliges him to do--and let us hope his disposition will lead
him to do it also--is to take a favorable, kindly, philanthropic view of the world; to say
what can fairly be said by a good-natured and ingenious man in praise of any article for which
he is desirous to awaken public sympathy. And how readily and pleasantly may this be done!
I will take upon myself, for instance, to write an eulogium upon So-and-So's last novel, which
shall be every word of it true; and which work, though to some discontented spirits it might
appear dull, may be shown to be really amusing and instructive,--nay, IS amusing and instructive,--to
those who have the art of discovering where those precious qualities lie.

An auctioneer should have the organ of truth large; of imagination and comparison, considerable;
of wit, great; of benevolence, excessively large.

And how happy might such a man be, and cause others to be! He should go through the world laughing,
merry, observant, kind-hearted. He should love everything in the world, because his profession
regards everything. With books of lighter literature (for I do not recommend the genteel auctioneer
to meddle with heavy antiquarian and philological works) he should be elegantly conversant,
being able to give a neat history of the author, a pretty sparkling kind criticism of the work,
and an appropriate eulogium upon the binding, which would make those people read who never
read before; or buy, at least, which is his first consideration. Of pictures we have already
spoken. Of china, of jewelry, of gold-headed canes, valuable arms, picturesque antiquities,
with what eloquent entrainement might he not speak! He feels every one of these things in his
heart. He has all the tastes of the fashionable world. Dr. Meyrick cannot be more enthusiastic
about an old suit of armor than he; Sir Harris Nicolas not more eloquent regarding the gallant
times in which it was worn, and the brave histories connected with it. He takes up a pearl
necklace with as much delight as any beauty who was sighing to wear it round her own snowy
throat, and hugs a china monster with as much joy as the oldest duchess could do. Nor must
he affect these things; he must feel them. He is a glass in which all the tastes of fashion
are reflected. He must be every one of the characters to whom he addresses himself--a genteel
Goethe or Shakspeare, a fashionable world-spirit.

How can a man be all this and not be a gentleman; and not have had an education in the midst
of the best company--an insight into the most delicate feelings, and wants, and usages? The
pulpit oratory of such a man would be invaluable; people would flock to listen to him from
far and near. He might out of a single teacup cause streams of world-philosophy to flow, which
would be drunk in by grateful thousands; and draw out of an old pincushion points of wit, morals,
and experience, that would make a nation wise.

Look round, examine THE ANNALS OF AUCTIONS, as Mr. Robins remarks, and (with every respect
for him and his brethren) say, is there in the profession SUCH A MAN? Do we want such a man?
Is such a man likely or not likely to make an immense fortune? Can we get such a man except
out of the very best society, and among the most favored there?

