Prevost was one of those men who succeed half-way up and fail at the top. Pure Swiss by blood,
he had, like his father, spent his life in the British Army, and had risen to the rank of lieutenant-general.
He had served with some distinction in the West Indies, and had been made a baronet for defending
Dominica in 1805. In 1808 he became governor of Nova Scotia, and in 1811, at the age of forty-four,
governor-general and commander-in-chief of Canada. He and his wife were popular both in the
West Indies and in Canada; and he undoubtedly deserved well of the Empire for having conciliated
the French Canadians, who had been irritated by his predecessor, the abrupt and masterful Craig.
The very important Army Bill Act was greatly due to his diplomatic handling of the French Canadians,
who found him so congenial that they stood by him to the end. His native tongue was French.
He understood French ways and manners to perfection; and he consequently had far more than
the usual sympathy with a people whose nature and circumstances made them particularly sensitive
to real or fancied slights. All this is more to his credit than his enemies were willing to
admit, either then or afterwards. But, in spite of all these good qualities, Prevost was not
the man to safeguard British honour during the supreme ordeal of a war; and if he had lived
in earlier times, when nicknames were more apt to become historic, he might well have gone
down to posterity as Prevost the Pusillanimous.

Day after day Prevost's armistice kept the British helpless, while supplies and reinforcements
for the Americans poured in at every advantageous point. Brock was held back from taking either
Sackett's Harbour, which was meanwhile being strongly reinforced from Ogdensburg, or Fort Niagara,
which was being reinforced from Oswego, Procter was held back from taking Fort Wayne, at the
point of the salient angle south of Lake Michigan and west of Lake Erie--a quite irretrievable
loss. For the moment the British had the command of all the Lakes. But their golden opportunity
passed, never to return. By land their chances were also quickly disappearing. On September
1, a week before the armistice ended, there were less than seven hundred Americans directly
opposed to Brock, who commanded in person at Queenston and Fort George. On the day of the battle
in October there were nearly ten times as many along the Niagara frontier.

The very day Brock heard that the disastrous armistice was over he proposed an immediate attack
on Sackett's Harbour. But Prevost refused to sanction it. Brock then turned his whole attention
to the Niagara frontier, where the Americans were assembling in such numbers that to attack
them was out of the question. The British began to receive a few supplies and reinforcements.
But the Americans had now got such a long start that, on the fateful 13th of October, they
outnumbered Brock's men four to one--4,000 to 1,000 along the critical fifteen miles between
the Falls and Lake Ontario; and 6,800 to 1,700 along the whole Niagara river, from lake to
lake, a distance of thirty-three miles. The factors which helped to redress the adverse balance
of these odds were Brock himself, his disciplined regulars, the intense loyalty of the militia,
and the 'telegraph.' This 'telegraph' was a system of visual signalling by semaphore, much
the same as that which Wellington had used along the lines of Torres Vedras.

The immediate moral effects, however, were even more favourable to the Americans than the mere
physical odds; for Prevost's armistice both galled and chilled the British, who were eager
to strike a blow. American confidence had been much shaken in September by the sight of the
prisoners from Detroit, who had been marched along the river road in full view of the other
side. But it increased rapidly in October as reinforcements poured in. On the 8th a council
of war decided to attack Fort George and Queenston Heights simultaneously with every available
man. But Smyth, the American general commanding above the Falls, refused to co-operate. This
compelled the adoption of a new plan in which only a feint was to be made against Fort George,
while Queenston Heights were to be carried by storm. The change entailed a good deal of extra
preparation. But when Lieutenant Elliott, of the American Navy, cut out two British vessels
at Fort Erie on the 9th, the news made the American troops so clamorous for an immediate invasion
that their general, Van Rensselaer, was afraid either to resist them or to let their ardour cool.

In the American camp opposite Queenston all was bustle on the 10th of October; and at three
the next morning the whole army was again astir, waiting till the vanguard had seized the landing
on the British side. But a wrong leader had been chosen; mistakes were plentiful; and confusion
followed. Nearly all the oars had been put into the first boat, which, having overshot the
mark, was made fast on the British side; whereupon its commander disappeared. The troops on
the American shore shivered in the drenching autumn rain till after daylight. Then they went
back to their sodden camp, wet, angry, and disgusted.

While the rain came down in torrents the principal officers were busy revising their plans.
Smyth was evidently not to be depended on; but it was thought that, with all the advantages
of the initiative, the four thousand other Americans could overpower the one thousand British
and secure a permanent hold on the Queenston Heights just above the village. These heights
ran back from the Niagara river along Lake Ontario for sixty miles west, curving north-eastwards
round Burlington Bay to Dundas Street, which was the one regular land line of communication
running west from York. Therefore, if the Americans could hold both the Niagara and the Heights,
they would cut Upper Canada in two. This was, of course, quite evident to both sides. The only
doubtful questions were, How should the first American attack be made and how should it be met?

The American general, Stephen Van Rensselaer, was a civilian who had been placed at the head
of the New York State militia by Governor Tompkins, both to emphasize the fact that expert
regulars were only wanted as subordinates and to win a cunning move in the game of party politics.
Van Rensselaer was not only one of the greatest of the old 'patroons' who formed the landed
aristocracy of Dutch New York, but he was also a Federalist. Tompkins, who was a Democrat,
therefore hoped to gain his party ends whatever the result might be. Victory would mean that
Van Rensselaer had been compelled to advance the cause of a war to which he objected; while
defeat would discredit both him and his party, besides providing Tompkins with the excuse that
it would all have happened very differently if a Democrat had been in charge.

