THE HERITAGE OF THE SIOUX

By B.M. Bower

     I     WHEN GREEN GRASS COMES
     II    THE DAUGHTER OF A CHIEF
     III   TO THE VICTORS THE SPOILS
     IV    LOVE WORDS FOR ANNIE
     V     FOR THE GOOD OF THE COMPANY
     VI    "I GO WHERE WAGALEXA CONKA SAY"
     VII   ADVENTURE COMES SMILING
     VIII  THE SONG OF THE OMAHA
     IX    RIDERS IN THE BACKGROUND
     X     DEPUTIES ALL
     XI    ALL THIS WAR-TALK ABOUT INJUNS
     XII   THE WILD-GOOSE CHASE
     XIII  SET AFOOT
     XIV   ONE PUT OVER ON THE BUNCH
     XV    "NOW, DANG IT, RIDE!"
     XVI   ANNIE-MANY-PONIES WAITS
     XVII  APPLEHEAD SHOWS THE STUFF HE IS MADE OF
     XVIII IN THE DEVIL'S FRYING-PAN
     XIX   PEACE TALK
     XX    LUIS ROJAS TALKS
     XXI   "WAGALEXA CONKA--COLA!"

THE HERITAGE OF THE SIOUX

CHAPTER I. WHEN GREEN GRASS COMES

Old Applehead Furrman, jogging home across the mesa from Albuquerque, sniffed the soft breeze
that came from opal-tinted distances and felt poignantly that spring was indeed here. The grass,
thick and green in the sheltered places, was fast painting all the higher ridges and foot-hill
slopes, and with the green grass came the lank-bodied, big-kneed calves; which meant that roundup
time was at hand. Applehead did not own more than a thousand head of cattle, counting every
hoof that walked under his brand. And with the incipient lethargy of old age creeping into
his habits of life, roundup time was not with him the important season it once had been; for
several years he had been content to hire a couple of men to represent him in the roundups
of the larger outfits--men whom he could trust to watch fairly well his interests. By that
method he avoided much trouble and hurry and hard work--and escaped also the cares which come
with wealth.

But this spring was not as other springs had been. Something--whether an awakened ambition
or an access of sentiment regarding range matters, he did not know--was stirring the blood
in Applehead's veins. Never, since the days when he had been a cowpuncher, had the wide spaces
called to him so alluringly; never had his mind dwelt so insistently upon the approach of spring
roundup. Perhaps it was because he heard so much range talk at the ranch, where the boys of
the Flying U were foregathered in uneasy idleness, their fingers itching for the feel of lariat
ropes and branding irons while they gazed out over the wide spaces of the mesa.

So much good rangeland unharnessed by wire fencing the Flying U boys had not seen for many
a day. During the winter they had been content to ride over it merely for the purpose of helping
to make a motion picture of the range, but with the coming of green grass, and with the reaction
that followed the completion of the picture that in the making had filled all their thoughts,
they were not so content. To the inevitable reaction had been added a nerve racking period
of idleness and uncertainty while Luck Lindsay, their director, strove with the Great Western
Film Company in Los Angeles for terms and prices that would make for the prosperity of himself
and his company. 

The old gentleman, leaning with his elbow on the table, began again.

"You like to live well, Mr. Bangs?"

"I try to," answered Mr. Bixby.

"Yes."

"This must be some relative of Bangs come to deliver him a lecture on his course of life. Why don't
he broach his advice at once?" thought Mr. Bixby. The visitor here pulled a glove from his right
hand, ran his fingers through his hair, and then, in a more business-like
tone, spoke again: "Although a stranger to you personally, Mr. Bangs,
I have always taken a great interest in your family.

Mr. Bangs,
I knew your father." "Indeed! I never heard him speak--" "No, I dare say; it was near the end of his life.
I was near by, and rendered him some assistance, when he died suddenly
of apoplexy.

He was not so much of a man as your grandfather."

"Was he not?" asked Mr. Bixby, musingly. He was thinking how old the grandfather of his friend Bangs
must have been.

"No," continued the elderly gentleman; "but even his judgment I never
considered equal to that of your great-grandfather."

"Here is, indeed, a friend-- a friend of the family.

Why is Mr. Bangs away?" thought Mr. Bixby, and he bent his head a
little, and looked under the drop-light, to get a view of his visitor.

He saw only the reflection on his spectacles, and drew back suddenly, for fear of being detected.
"You like a good song, I have heard, Mr. Bangs," came from the other
side of the table.

"Have you any favorite?" Mr. Bixby did not understand this at all. The question puzzled him. Should
he as Bangs fall in the estimation of some relative if he admitted the fact? Or did his visitor intend
to sing? However, he felt compelled to be frank, so he said: "Oh,
yes; I like a good song.

Some of the Scotch ballads please me most. There is'The Land o'the Leal.'" "A very fine song,
sir. A very fine song.

It is a credit to any man to like that song." The old gentleman was excited. Mr. Bixby was
just congratulating himself on having given Bangs a lift, when his
thoughts were turned into an altogether new channel by the following
remark: "It was my impression, however, that your taste ran rather
in the way of drinking-songs.

I should have thought now you would have said,'The Coal-Black Wine.'"

There was something in the tone with which this was uttered that made Mr. Bixby shudder. It
ran through his mind that this man was some enemy of Bangs-- that
he was dangerous.

Startled by this sudden suspicion, tremblingly he again peered under
the shade.

The wrinkle in the line of the frontal suture was more deeply indented.

The light on the spectacles was brighter than ever. "Mr. Bangs, I called on your opposite neighbor,
Mr. Bixby, to-night. I knocked on the door, but he was away."

"Yes," said Mr. Bixby, somewhat confused. He wished that Bangs had stayed at home, and determined
to end the interview as soon as possible. "Yes. I am sorry.

I had a positive appointment with him. I am a great friend of his." "Does he know you?" "Oh, no;
we have never met personally that he remembers. I am an old friend of the family. He suffers from
the heart-disease, and has been expecting me." "Oh, you are a physician?"

"Yes, sir. I attended his father at his last illness." Mr. Bixby's heart began to beat rapidly. His
mind became equally active, and, although he had no experience to
be guided by, he began to suspect the nature of this man's business
with Bangs.

He almost determined to discover himself, but the letters were yet unread. If that were only
done, he would do anything his visitor might request.

Recalling the old gentleman's last words, he said, at last, calmly: "And his mother?" "Yes, and his
mother." The old man's voice assumed almost a kindly tone.

"He is, indeed, a friend of my family," thought Mr. Bixby; and then
he started, for fear he might have spoken aloud.

His eyes fell upon the packet of letters. He must read them.

He must end the interview.

The old doctor must have noticed Mr. Bixby's eyes, with the tears rising in them, as he tenderly
touched the letters one by one, for it was with a voice very gentle
and low that he spoke again.

"I attended once a very dear friend of his.

It must be quite ten years ago now. Her name was Margaret.

I think she loved him, for I remember-- yes-- it was one Christmas-eve, she said, and after that
she said no more,'Has Harry come?'" Mr. Bixby could bear no more. His sobs were striving for utterance.
His fingers grasped the strong oak arms of his chair. It was only the thought of the letters
which gave him strength to say: "I am sorry, sir. You mistake me. I must ask you to leave me. You
may come again.

I shall be here, but I have something I would do to-night.

I have given you much of my time.

It is already late." "It is you who mistake, Mr. Bangs.

But I am going now. I said I would stop but a moment. I have kept my promise, as you will see
by your clock."

Before his hands fell listless from the arms of the chair-- before
his lips parted, but not for speech-- ay, just before that quick,
strong pain in his heart, Mr. Bixby saw on the white dial the black
hands yet pointing to the seven hours and the twenty-nine minutes,
the pendulum moveless, still, half-way on the upward journey of the
arc. The elderly gentleman arose, walked round the table, and smiled,
himself, as he saw a smile of perfected happiness on the face of the
dead, when so lately sorrow itself had been pictured on the face of
the living.

"It was hard to deceive him, but he will thank me now," said he of the gray locks and wrinkled visage.
"And here are the letters which he does not need." Had the old man no more appointments to keep?
For he took up one of the letters and opened it.

A lock of golden hair fell unnoticed to the floor. Then he read silently,
and, after a while, aloud: "I hope you will come and see me on Christmas-eve,
for I am not well.

I long for you more than I can say. You must be tired with your struggle in the great city, and
need rest. O Harry! come and comfort her that loves you, as you well
know."

MARGARET. "The bells of Trinity commenced ringing." He was tired, and he needed rest, "said Death.
ELI. BY C. H. WHITE. Century Magazine, November, 1881." I haven't
any reasons, only that I don't believe he's guilty, "said Eli.

How is it that a sea-farin'man, that's dyin'to home, will allers
die on the ebb-tide?

The impugnment of Eli's motives was evident to all. He hadn't one chance in five, and he was
a married man, too, with small children. And he stopped suddenly."

You have certainly explained yourself, "said the foreman." I think we understand you distinctly.
"" Oh, "said the peddler;" that makes a difference.

I understood you did. "Three o'clock came, and brought Mr. Eldridge. And what's more, I'm going
to get well now!" And she did. YOUNG STRONG OF "THE CLARION." BY MILICENT WASHBURN SHINN. Overland
Monthly, September, 1884. If you had asked any resident of Green's
Ferry some eight years ago-- say, in'76-- who were the leading men of
his town, he would doubtless have begun: "Well, there's Judge Garvey,
of course.

Then there's Uncle Billy Green, who built the first
shanty there in'49, and young Strong of'The Clarion'--" However he might
continue his enumeration, it would certainly have been as above for
the first three names.

One you would have recognized, if you had been following State politics closely for some years;
for Judge Garvey was very regularly chosen State senator in his district,
and had held the barren honor of presidential elector the last time
his party carried the State.

In'76, some of the papers were urging his nomination for Congress,
and politicians thought his chance of such a nomination increasing.

It has not turned out so; his name has quite dropped out of the papers, and it is said he does not
certainly control his own county now; but at that time he was the most potent political influence
in three counties.

What he influenced them to, I never clearly understood, for I cannot recall that I ever heard
his name mentioned in connection with any measure or opinion. A file of "The Clarion" during the four years
that young Strong was editor would doubtless throw light on the matter.

"The Clarion" was at this time a sort of voice crying in the wilderness
about Reform, which was a very new idea, indeed, to its readers.

Garvey did not like the paper, and young Strong disliked Garvey very
much; but the two men had kept on fairly good terms-- not so rigid
good terms, of course, as to forbid their expressing to third parties
the frankest contempt for each other.

The Judge had here the advantage, for Strong despised him indignantly,
as a knave, while he despised Strong-- or said he did-- pityingly,
as a fool.

He must, however, have at bottom honored the young fellow with some
serious antipathy; for it was after all no laughing matter that a
boy of twenty-five should come into "his Gaul, which he had conquered
by arms," and filch away his home paper from under his very eyes.

Moreover, though people read the editorials, laughed, and voted with
the Judge just the same-- they still did read them.

However, Judge Garvey certainly was more civil to Strong than Strong
was to him.

As for Uncle Billy Green, his rank was due not only to his connection with the "first shanty" (a house
of entertainment at the point where a trail turned from the river
toward the mines), but to his having remained steadily on the spot
ever since, putting up a larger building at intervals as the settlement
gathered around him, until now he was proprietor of the American Eagle
Hotel, a house of goodly dimensions and generous equipment-- billiard-room,
bowling alley, shooting-gallery.

Nor did Uncle Billy Green own and conduct this house in a purely business spirit; a more modest
one would have been more profitable; he liked to "do that much for
the town."

A man by the name of Gulliver had established the old rope-ferry,
before the day of bridges, but it was naturally called Green's Ferry,
being a ferry at Green's place.

He had been of an undoubted valor in the Indian fights of early days,
was full of reminiscences, had no personal objections to anybody or
anything, and had long given over to Judge Garvey the trouble of forming
his opinions.

Judge
Garvey and young Strong were pretty sure to be put upon such boards
or committees as the local affairs of the small town demanded; and
in local matters they proved to pull together fairly well, however
at odds they were politically.

But in the end it was not over politics, but over the district school,
that they fell out squarely.

They were both trustees, and as Green was the third, the board seemed
in little danger from any too radical reforming tendencies young Strong
might be guilty of, and the Judge had no thought of danger as he walked
down to "The Clarion" office, a breathless September afternoon, a
couple of days before the school should open.

He found young Strong in his editorial room.

This was a corner of the printing-office, fenced off by a great screen
pasted over with old exchanges.

Behind this, Strong sat at his table, correcting proof energetically.

It was evident that he took the editing of this little four-page weekly rather
seriously-- but, then, a man must needs be business-like to produce even
four pages weekly with one assistant, and Strong had to economize
time enough from strictly editorial functions to do a goodly share
of type-setting and the rest of the mechanics of the office.

"I beg your pardon for interrupting you, Mr. Strong," said the Judge.

"I perceive you are arduously occupied. But it becomes necessary to confer with you with regard
to the school-teacher."

The Judge was a tall and vigorously built man-- a little red-faced, but good-looking, if one did
not insist on too fine a definiteness of outline. He spoke habitually with a certain inflation of
manner, and tried to form himself upon a Southern type that was pretty
abundant in our politics some years earlier. He was, however, a native
of rural New York, early transplanted to California.

Strong turned in his chair, and sitting sidewise, rested his elbow on the proof-sheets, holding
the pencil still in his fingers. "Well?" he said. "I thought everything was settled." "Assuredly."
Judge Garvey rested his folded arms upon the pile of books stacked at the rear of the table,
and leaned over them in a friendly way. "Mr. Coakley is to arrive Sunday evening, and will begin
the term on Monday morning, to the great satisfaction, I can guarantee, of all concerned. A slight and
merely temporary embarrassment has arisen, with respect to which
a few words will make it all right.

In point of fact, the young woman with whom we previously held correspondence--
who, you will remember, broke her engagement with us to take a more
advantageous position-- is here."

The Judge stopped for question or comment, but as Strong waited for explanation, he went on:
"She has, it appears, failed after all to secure that, and come here expecting to fall back upon our
school, not having heard that it was engaged." "Well, that's unfortunate for her," said Strong, "but
you can't ship Coakley now." "Your views coincide exactly with my own, my dear sir." The Judge straightened
up with some relief. "I have only to ask, then, for a note to the lady
to that effect, that my own explanation already given may be corroborated."

Strong began to look alert and suspicious at this. "Views coincide?" he said. "What two views
could there be? What does she say brought her here?" "She's got an idea that she's got first
claim on the place," said the Judge, plumping suddenly into colloquial diction. He had a trick of
doing so when he got down to business. It would have had something the effect of candid confession,
produced by a maiden's plain-hair days alternated with her waved-hair
days, had not the grandiloquence of tone and manner become so far
second nature that it ran through both his dialects, and lessened
the contrast.

"You can't always make a woman see sense." Strong looked suspiciously
at him a few seconds.

"Well, I'll go see her this evening," he said. "Where's she staying?" "That is a totally superfluous tax
on your time, my dear Strong," said the Judge, leaning persuasively
across the books again. "I have here a mere formal line, stating that
Coakley is the regularly engaged teacher of the school, and will begin
next Monday; your signature to it-- Green's and mine are already
there-- will be all that is necessary."

He pushed pen and ink toward Strong with his exaggerated air of courtesy. "Oh, I'm not going to
sign things that way, you know. I'll go see her." He turned and drew
his proof-sheets to him with an air of dismissal.

The Judge stood up very straight, expanded his chest, and folded his arms according to his conception
of the Virginian manner. "Am I to understand, sir, that you question my veracity?" "I don't
question anything," said the young man, impatiently. "I'll know what I'm talking about when I've
seen her." "Permit me to suggest, sir"-- the Judge was approaching his platform manner--
"permit me to suggest, sir, that Mr. Green and myself constitute
a majority of the board, and Mr. Green, sir-- Uncle Billy Green--
has confidence in my honor, and will sustain my action, whatever line
you may be persuaded to adopt."

"Oh, as to that," said Strong, exaggerating his crispness of manner in protest against the Judge's
staginess, "I'm clerk of the board, and you can't hold a legal meeting nor pay a salary without me.
What's the reason you don't want me to see her?" Judge Garvey unfolded his arms, fell back a step,
and dropped easily into the sonorous declamation that made the stalwart Judge no inconspicuous
figure on the floor of the Legislature. The newspapers, of course, were responsible for his language--
as for the rest of his education; but such as it was, he used it fluently, and the declamatory
manner was, to his constituency, quite an essential of eloquence--
the prime difference, in fact, between oratory and plain talking.

"You
cast aspersions upon my honor, sir.

Through me you insult the people of Green's Ferry-- of this county-- of
this district-- the enlightened and honorable constituency who it is
my proud honor to represent. I sco-r-n to answer your insinuations, sir.
They will be hurled back upon yourself by the united voice and righteous
indignation of my justly aroused fellow-townsmen, by the voters of
this noble district-- I may say, by the whole State of California--
to which I am not unknown, sir." Half-a-dozen of the justly aroused fellow-townsmen
were straggling in from the street, for in Green's Ferry a sprinkling
of the citizens spend the warm afternoons sitting in absolute tranquillity
on boxes and barrels here and there, under the awnings of the several
business blocks; and the knowledge that a row was at last on between
Judge Garvey and young Strong reached them at the first peal.

The Judge, alive to the increase of
his audience, raised his voice a shade, and went on with a curious mixture
of complacency and genuine wrath.

"Is
it lack of confidence that has sent me to represent my honorable constituency
in the legislative halls of California, Mr. Strong? Have I received
that proud token of esteem only to be insulted by one whose obscurity
is his only shield; who, with unknown record, with no recommendation
save his own overwhelming self-esteem, comes among us to sow dissent in
peaceful counsels, and draw scorn and contempt upon his own head
by impotent and futile attacks upon those whom he is powerless to
harm?" Noble feeling, depth of thought, strength, and grandeur are the associations
which we have with him, and in the hands of weaker men, as his imitators
were, these subjects became barren, hollow displays of distorted limbs
and soulless heads and faces.

The result is, that there is little to be said of the immediate followers of this great man. GUGLIELMO
DELLA PORTA was one of his most able scholars, and his chief work was a monument to Pope Paul
III. in the Church of St. Peter's. The figure of the pope is in bronze, is seated, and holding
the right hand in benediction. It is dignified and well designed. The figures of Justice and
Prudence are not as good, and two others, Peace and Abundance, which
were a part of this work, but are now in the Farnese Palace, lack
power, and show an attempt at a representation of mere physical beauty.

BACCIO BANDINELLI (1487-1559) is more noticeable for his hatred of
Michael Angelo than for any other characteristic.

He was a native of Florence and a friend of Leonardo da Vinci. He was powerful in his design
and bold in his treatment of his subjects, but he was full of affectation and mannerisms in his
execution of his works. He was false and envious, and his one good quality was that of industry.
His best works are on the screen of the high-altar in the Cathedral of Florence, a relief on
a pedestal in the Piazza of San Lorenzo, in Florence, and a group in the Church of the Annunziata,
which he intended for his own monument; the subject is Nicodemus supporting Christ, and the
Nicodemus is a portrait of Bandinelli himself. CHAPTER VIII. EUROPEAN SCULPTURE FROM MICHAEL ANGELO
TO CANOVA.

Not only Italian artists attempted to follow the great sculptor of
Italy, but those of other nations flocked to Rome, and whatever ideas
they may have had before reaching that city they seemed to lose them
all and to aim simply at one thing-- to be Michaelangeloesque.

GIOVANNI DA BOLOGNA (1529-1608) was born in Douai, in Flanders, and
was called Il Fiammingo for this reason. They did not believe that Luck had appropriated the proceeds of The
Phantom Herd and had deliberately left them there to cool their heels and feel the emptiness
of their pockets in New Mexico, while he disported himself in Los Angeles; they did--not believe
that--they would have resented the implication that they harbored any doubt of him. But for
all that, as the days passed and he neither came nor sent them any word, they yielded more
and more to the determination of Applehead to start out upon his own business, and they said
less and less about Luck's probable plans for the future.

And then, just when they were making ready for an early start the next morning; just when Applehead
had the corral full of horses and his chuckwagon of grub; just when the Happy Family had packed
their war-bags with absolute necessities and were justifying themselves in final arguments
with Andy Green, who refused point-blank to leave the; ranch--then, at the time a dramatist
would have chosen for his entrance for an effective "curtain," here came Luck, smiling and
driving a huge seven-passenger machine crowded to the last folding seat and with the chauffeur
riding on the running board where Luck had calmly banished him when he skidded on a sharp turn
and came near upsetting them.

Applehead, stowing a coil of new rope in the chuck-wagon, took off his hat and rubbed his shiny,
pink pate in dismay. He was, for the moment, a culprit caught in the act of committing a grave
misdemeanor if not an actual felony. He dropped the rope and went forward with dragging feet--ashamed,
for the first time in his life, to face a friend.

Luck gave the wheel a twist, cut a fine curve around the windmill and stopped before the house
with as near a flourish as a seven-passenger automobile loaded from tail-lamp to windshield
can possibly approach.

"There. That's the way I've been used to seeing cars behave," Luck observed pointedly to the
deposed chauffeur as he slammed the door open and climbed out. "You don't have to act like
you're a catepillar on a rail fence, to play safe. I believe in keeping all four wheels on
the ground--but I like to see 'em turn once in awhile. You get me?" He peeled a five-dollar
banknote off a roll the size of his wrist, handed it to the impressed chauffeur and dismissed
the transaction with a wave of his gloved hand. "You're all right, brother," he tempered his
criticism, "but I'm some nervous about automobiles."

"I noticed that myself," drawled a soft, humorous voice from the rear. "This is the nearest
I ever came to traveling by telegraph."

Luck grinned, waved his hand in friendly greeting to the Happy Family who were taking long
steps up from the corral, and turned his attention to the unloading of the machine. "Howdy,
folks!--guess yuh thought I'd plumb lost the trail back," he called to them over his shoulder
while he dove after suitcases, packages of various sizes and shapes, a box or two which the
Happy Family recognized as containing "raw stock," and a camera tripod that looked perfectly new.

From the congested tonneau a tall, slim young woman managed to descend without stepping on
anything that could not bear being stepped upon. She gave her skirts a little shake, pushed
back a flying strand of hair and turned her back to the machine that she might the better inspect
her immediate surroundings.

Old Dave Wiswell, the dried little man who never had much to say, peered at her sharply, hesitated
and then came forward with his bony hand outstretched and trembling with eagerness. "Why, my
gorry! If it ain't Jean Douglas, my eyes are lyin' to me," he cried.

"It isn't Jean Douglas--but don't blame your eyes for that," said the girl, taking his hand
and shaking it frankly. In estimating the Hughes'type-printer as an invention we must not forget the
state of science at that early period.

He had to devise his own governors for the synchronous mechanism, and here his knowledge of
acoustics helped him. Centrifugal governors and pendulums would not do, and he tried vibrators,
such as piano-strings and tuning-forks. He at last found what he wanted in two darning needles, borrowed
from an old lady in the house where he lived. These steel rods fixed at one end vibrated with equal
periods, and could be utilised in such a way that the printing wheel could be corrected into
absolute synchronism by each signal current.

In 1854, Professor Hughes went to Louisville to superintend the making of his first instrument; but
it was unprotected by a patent in the United States until 1855.

In that form straight vibrators were used as governors, and a separate train of wheel-work
was employed in correcting: but in later forms the spiral governor was adopted, and the printing
and correcting is now done by the same action.

In 1855, the invention may be said to have become fit for employment, and no sooner was this
the case, than Professor Hughes received a telegram from the editors of the New York Associated
Press, summoning him to that city. The American Telegraph Company, then a leading one, was in possession
of the Morse instrument, and levied rates for transmission of news which the editors found oppressive.
They took up the Hughes'instrument in opposition to the Morse, and introduced it on the lines
of several companies. After a time, however, the separate companies amalgamated into one large
corporation, the Western Union Telegraph Company of to-day.

With the Morse, Hughes, and other apparatus in its power, the editors were again left in the
lurch.

In 1857, Professor Hughes leaving his instrument in the hands of the Western Union Telegraph Company,
came to England to effect its introduction here. He endeavoured to get the old Electric Telegraph
Company to adopt it, but after two years of indecision on their part, he went over to France in 1860,
where he met with a more encouraging reception. The French Government Telegraph Administration
became at once interested in the new receiver, and a commission of
eminent electricians, consisting of Du Moncel, Blavier, Froment, Gaugain,
and other practical and theoretical specialists, was appointed to
decide on its merits.

The first trial of the type-printer took place on the Paris to Lyons circuit, and there is a
little anecdote connected with it which is worthy of being told. The instrument was started,
and for a while worked as well as could be desired; but suddenly it came to a stop, and to the
utter discomfiture of the inventor he could neither find out what was wrong nor get the printer
to go again. In the midst of his confusion, it seemed like satire to him to hear the commissioners
say, as they smiled all round, and bowed themselves gracefully off,'TRES-BIEN,
MONSIEUR HUGHES-- TRES-BIEN, JE VOUS FELICITE.'But the matter was
explained next morning, when Professor Hughes learned that the transmitting
clerk at Lyons had been purposely instructed to earth the line at the
time in question, to test whether there was no deception in the trial, a
proceeding which would have seemed strange, had not the occurrence
of a sham trial some months previous rendered it a prudent course.
The result of this trial was that the French Government agreed to
give the printer a year of practical work on the French lines, and
if found satisfactory, it was to be finally adopted.

Daily reports were furnished of its behaviour during that time, and at the expiration of the term it was
adopted, and Professor Hughes was constituted by Napoleon III. a Chevalier of the Legion of Honour.
The patronage of France paved the way of the type-printer into almost all other European countries;
and the French agreement as to its use became the model of those
made by the other nations.

On settling with France in 1862, Professor Hughes went to Italy. Here
a commission was likewise appointed, and a period of probation-- only
six months-- was settled, before the instrument was taken over.

From Italy, Professor Hughes received the Order of St. Maurice and St. Lazare. In 1863, the United
Kingdom Telegraph Co., England, introduced the type-printer in their system. In 1865, Professor
Hughes proceeded to Russia, and in that country his invention was adopted after six months'trial
on the St. Petersburg to Moscow circuit. At St. Petersburg he had the honour of being a guest of
the Emperor in the summer palace, Czarskoizelo, the Versailles of Russia, where he was requested
to explain his invention, and also to give a lecture on electricity to the Czar and his court.
He was there created a Commander of the Order of St. Anne. In 1865, Professor Hughes also went
to Berlin, and introduced his apparatus on the Prussian lines. In
1867, he went on a similar mission to Austria, where he received
the Order of the Iron Crown; and to Turkey, where the reigning Sultan
bestowed on him the Grand Cross of the Medjidie.

In this year, too he was awarded at the Paris Exhibition, a grand
HORS LIGNE gold medal, one out of ten supreme honours designed to
mark the very highest achievements.

On the same occasion another of these special medals was bestowed on Cyrus Field and the Anglo-American
Telegraph Company. In 1868, he introduced it into Holland; and in 1869,
into Bavaria and Wurtemburg, where he obtained the Noble Order of St.
Michael. In 1870, he also installed it in Switzerland and Belgium.

Coming back to England, the Submarine Telegraph Company adopted the
type-printer in 1872, when they had only two instruments at work.
In 1878 they had twenty of them in constant use, of which number
nine were working direct between London and Paris, one between London
and Berlin, one between London and Cologne, one between London and
Antwerp, and one between London and Brussels.

All the continental news for the TIMES and the DAILY TELEGRAPH is received by the Hughes'type-printer,
and is set in type by a type-setting machine as it arrives.

Further, by the International Telegraph Congress it was settled that for all international
telegrams only the Hughes'instrument and the Morse were to be employed.

Since the Post Office acquired the cables to the Continent in 1889,
a room in St. Martin's-le-Grand has been provided for the printers
working to Paris, Berlin, and Rome.

In 1875, Professor Hughes introduced the type-printer into Spain, where he was made a Commander
of the Royal and Distinguished Order of Carlos III. In every country to which it was taken,
the merits of the instrument were recognised, and Professor Hughes has none but pleasant souvenirs
of his visits abroad. During all these years the inventor was not idle. He was constantly improving
his invention; and in addition to that, he had to act as an instructor where-ever he went, and give courses
of lectures explaining the principles and practice of his apparatus
to the various employees into whose hands it was to be consigned.

The years 1876-8 will be distinguished in the history of our time for a triad of great inventions
which, so to speak, were hanging together. We have already seen how the telephone and phonograph
have originated; and to these two marvellous contrivances we have now to add a third, the microphone,
which is even more marvellous, because, although in form it is the
simplest of them all, in its action it is still a mystery.

The telephone enables us to speak to distances far beyond the reach
of eye or ear,'to waft a sigh from Indus to the Pole;'the phonograph
enables us to seal the living speech on brazen tablets, and store
it up for any length of time; while it is the peculiar function of
the microphone to let us hear those minute sounds which are below
the range of our unassisted powers of hearing.

By these three instruments we have thus received a remarkable extension of the capacity of the human
ear, and a growth of dominion over the sounds of Nature.

We have now a command over sound such as we have over light.

For the telephone is to the ear what the telescope is to the eye, the phonograph is for sound what
the photograph is for light, and the microphone finds its analogue in the microscope. As the microscope
reveals to our wondering sight the rich meshes of creation, so the
microphone can interpret to our ears the jarr of molecular vibrations
for ever going on around us, perchance the clash of atoms as they
shape themselves into crystals, the murmurous ripple of the sap in
trees, which Humboldt fancied to make a continuous music in the ears
of the tiniest insects, the fall of pollen dust on flowers and grasses,
the stealthy creeping of a spider upon his silken web, and even the
piping of a pair of love-sick butterflies, or the trumpeting of a
bellicose gnat, like the'horns of elf-land faintly blowing.'The success
of the Hughes type-printer may be said to have covered its author
with titles and scientific honours, and placed him above the necessity
of regular employment.

He left America, and travelled from place to place. For many years past, however, he has resided
privately in London, an eminent example of that modesty and simplicity which is generally said to
accompany true genius. Mechanical invention is influenced to a very high degree by external circumstances.
It may sound sensational, but it is nevertheless true, that we owe the microphone to an attack
of bronchitis.

During the thick foggy weather of November 1877, Professor Hughes was confined to his home by a severe
cold, and in order to divert his thoughts he began to amuse himself with a speaking telephone.
Then it occurred to him that there might be some means found of making the wire of the telephone
circuit speak of itself without the need of telephones at all, or at least without the need
of one telephone, namely, that used in transmitting the sounds. The distinguished physicist
Sir William Thomson, had lately discovered the peculiar fact that when a current of electricity
is passed through a wire, the current augments when the wire is extended,
and diminishes when the wire is compressed, because in the former
case the resistance of the material of the wire to the passage of
the current is lessened, and in the latter case it becomes greater.

Now it occurred to Professor Hughes that, if this were so, it might be possible to cause the air-vibrations
of sound to so act upon a wire conveying a current as to stretch and contract it in sympathy with themselves,
so that the sound-waves would create corresponding electric waves in the current, and these electric
waves, passed through a telephone connected to the wire, would cause the telephone to give forth
the original sounds. He first set about trying the effect of vibrating a wire in which a current
flowed, to see if the stretching and compressing thereby produced would
affect the current so as to cause sounds in a telephone connected up
in circuit with the wire-- but without effect. He could hear no sound
whatever in the telephone. Then he stretched the wire till it broke altogether,
and as the metal began to rupture he heard a distinct grating in
the telephone, followed by a sharp'click,'when the wire sundered,
which indicated a'rush'of electricity through the telephone.

This pointed out to
him that the wire might be sensitive to sound when in a state of fracture.
Acting on the hint, he placed the two broken ends of the wire together
again, and kept them so by the application of a definite pressure.

To his joy he found that he had discovered what he had been in search of. The imperfect contact
between the broken ends of the wire proved itself to be a means of transmitting sounds, and in addition
it was found to possess a faculty which he had not anticipated--
it proved to be sensitive to very minute sounds, and was in fact a
rude microphone.

Continuing his researches, he soon found that he had discovered a principle of wide application,
and that it was not necessary to confine his experiments to wires, since
any substance which conducted an electric current would answer the
purpose.

All that was necessary was that the materials employed should be in contact with each other under
a slight but definite pressure, and, for the continuance of the effects, that the materials should not
oxidise in air so as to foul the contact. For different materials a different degree of pressure
gives the best results, and for different sounds to be transmitted a different degree of pressure
is required. Any loose, crazy unstable structure, of conducting bodies, inserted in a telephone
circuit, will act as a microphone. Such, for example, as a glass
tube filled with lead-shot or black oxide of iron, or'white bronze'powder
under pressure; a metal watch-chain piled in a heap. Surfaces of platinum,
gold, or even iron, pressed lightly together give excellent results.
Three French nails, two parallel beneath and one laid across them,
or better still a log-hut of French nails, make a perfect transmitter
of audible sounds, and a good microphone.

Because of its cheapness, its conducting power, and its non-oxidisability, carbon is the most
select material. A piece of charcoal no bigger than a pin's head is quite sufficient to produce
articulate speech. Gas-carbon operates admirably, but the best carbon is that known as willow-charcoal,
used by artists in sketching, and when this is impregnated with minute globules of mercury
by heating it white-hot and quenching it in liquid mercury, it is in a highly sensitive microphonic
condition. The same kind of charcoal permeated by platinum, tin, zinc, or other unoxidisable metal
is also very suitable; and it is a significant fact that the most resonant woods, such as pine,
poplar, and willow, yield the charcoals best adapted for the microphone. Professor Hughes'experimental
apparatus is of an amusingly simple description. He has no laboratory
at home, and all his experiments were made in the drawing-room. His first
microphones were formed of bits of carbon and scraps of metal, mounted
on slips of match-boxes by means of sealing-wax; and the resonance
pipes on which they were placed to reinforce the effect of minute
sounds, were nothing more than children's toy money boxes, price one
halfpenny, having one of the ends knocked out.

With such childish and worthless materials he has conquered Nature in her strongholds, and shown
how great discoveries can be made. The microphone is a striking illustration of the truth that
in science any phenomenon whatever may be rendered useful. The trouble of one generation of scientists
may be turned to the honour and service of the next. Electricians have long had sore reasons for
regarding a'bad contact'as an unmitigated nuisance, the instrument of the evil one, with no conceivable
good in it, and no conceivable purpose except to annoy and tempt them into wickedness and an expression
of hearty but ignominious emotion. Professor Hughes, however, has with a wizard's power transformed
this electrician's bane into a professional glory and a public boon.
Verily there is a soul of virtue in things evil. The commonest and
at the same time one of the most sensitive forms of the instrument
is called the'pencil microphone,'from the pencil or crayon of carbon
which forms the principal part of it.

This pencil may be of mercurialised charcoal, but the ordinary gas-carbon,
which incrusts the interior of the retorts in gas-works, is usually employed.
The crayon is supported in an upright position by two little brackets
of carbon, hollowed out so as to receive the pointed ends in shallow
cups.

The weight of the crayon suffices to give the required pressure on the contacts, both upper and
lower, for the upper end of the Pencil should lean against the inner wall of the cup in the upper
bracket. The brackets are fixed to an upright board of light, dry, resonant pine-wood, let into a
solid base of the same timber. The baseboard is with advantage borne
by four rounded india-rubber feet, which insulate it from the table on
which it may be placed.

To connect the microphone up for use, a small voltaic battery, say three cells (though a single
cell will give surprising results), and a Bell speaking telephone are necessary. A wire is led from
one of the carbon brackets to one pole of the battery, and another wire is led from the other
bracket to one terminal screw of the telephone, and the circuit is completed by a wire from the
other terminal of the telephone to the other pole of the battery. If
now the slightest mechanical jar be given to the wooden frame of
the microphone, to the table, or even to the walls of the room in
which the experiment takes place, a corresponding noise will be heard
in the microphone.

By this delicate arrangement we can play the eavesdropper on those insensible vibrations in
the midst of which we exist. If a feather or a camel-hair pencil be stroked
along the base-board, we hear a harsh grating sound; if a pin be laid
upon it, we hear a blow like a blacksmith's hammer; and, more astonishing
than all, if a fly walk across it we hear it tramping like a charger,
and even its peculiar cry, which has been likened, with some allowance
for imagination, to the snorting of an elephant.

Moreover it should not be forgotten that the wires connecting up the
telephone may be lengthened to any desired extent, so that, in the
words of Professor Hughes,'the beating of a pulse, the tick of a watch,
the tramp of a fly can then be heard at least a hundred miles from
the source of sound.'If we whisper or speak distinctly in a monotone
to the pencil, our words will be heard in the telephone; but with
this defect, that the TIMBRE or quality is, in this particular form
of the instrument, apt to be lost, making it difficult to recognise
the speaker's voice.

But although a single pencil microphone will under favourable circumstances
transmit these varied sounds, the best effect for each kind of sound
is obtained by one specially adjusted.

There is one pressure best adapted for minute sounds, another for speech, and a third for louder
sounds. A simple spring arrangement for adjusting the pressure of the contacts is therefore an
advantage, and it can easily be applied to a microphone formed of a small rod of carbon pivoted
at its middle, with one end resting on a block or anvil of carbon underneath.
The contact between the rod and the block in this'hammer-and-anvil'form
is, of course, the portion which is sensitive to sound.

The microphone is a discovery as well as an invention, and the true
explanation of its action is as yet merely an hypothesis.

It is supposed that the vibrations put the carbons in a tremor and cause them to approach more
or less nearly, thus closing or opening the breach between them, which is, as it were, the floodgate
of the current.

The applications of the microphone were soon of great importance. Dr. B. W. Richardson succeeded
in fitting it for auscultation of the heart and lungs; while Sir Henry Thompson has effectively used
it in those surgical operations, such as probing wounds for bullets or fragments of bone, in
which the surgeon has hitherto relied entirely on his delicacy of touch for detecting the jar of
the probe on the foreign body.

There can be no doubt that in the science of physiology, in the art of surgery, and in many other
walks of life, the microphone has proved a valuable aid. Professor Hughes communicated his
results to the Royal Society in the early part of 1878, and generously
gave the microphone to the world.

For his own sake it would perhaps have been better had he patented and thus
protected it, for Mr. Edison, recognising it as a rival to his carbon-transmitter,
then a valuable property, claimed it as an infringement of his patents
and charged him with plagiarism.

A spirited controversy arose, and several bitter lawsuits were the consequence, in none of which,
however, Professor Hughes took part, as they were only commercial trials. It was clearly shown
that Clerac, and not Edison, had been the first to utilise the variable resistance of powdered
carbon or plumbage under pressure, a property on which the Edison transmitter was founded, and that
Hughes had discovered a much wider principle, which embraced not
only the so-called'semi-conducting'bodies, such as carbon; but even
the best conductors, such as gold, silver, and other metals.

This principle was not a mere variation of electrical conductivity
in a mass of material brought about by compression, but a mysterious
variation in some unknown way of the strength of an electric current
in traversing a loose joint or contact between two conductors.

This discovery of Hughes really shed a light on the behaviour of Edison's own transmitter, whose action
he had until then misunderstood. It was now seen that the particles of carbon dust in contact
which formed the button were a congeries of minute micro-phones. Again it was proved that the
diaphragm or tympanum to receive the impression of the sound and convey it to the carbon button,
on which Edison had laid considerable stress, was non-essential; for the microphone, pure and simple,
was operated by the direct impact of the sonorous waves, and required no tympanum. Moreover,
the microphone, as its name implies, could magnify a feeble sound, and render audible the vibrations
which would otherwise escape the ear. The discovery of these remarkable and subtle properties of
a delicate contact had indeed confronted Edison; he had held them
in his grasp, they had stared him in the face, but not-withstanding
all his matchless ingenuity and acumen, he, blinded perhaps by a false
hypothesis, entirely failed to discern them.

The significant proof of it lies in the fact that after the researches of Professor Hughes were published
the carbon transmitter was promptly modified, and finally abandoned for practical work as a telephone,
in favour of a variety of new transmitters, such as the Blake, now
employed in the United Kingdom, in all of which the essential part is
a microphone of hard carbon and metal.



"You did? Sounds like you've been reading my mind, Applehead. Now we'll grubstake the outfit--"

"Er--well, I took the chuck-wagon in yest'day and loaded 'er up with grub fer two weeks," blurted
Applehead heroically. "I was figurin'--"

"Good! Couldn't ask better. Applehead, you sure are there when it comes to backing a man's
play. If I haven't said much about how I stand toward you fellows it isn't because I don't
appreciate every durned one of you."

The Happy Family squirmed guiltily and made way for Applehead, who was sidling toward the open
door, his face showing alarming symptoms of apoplexy. Their confusion Luck set down to a becoming
modesty. He went on planning and perfecting details. Standing as he did on the threshold of
a career to which his one big success had opened the door, he was wholly absorbed in making good.

There was nothing now to balk his progress, he told himself. He had his company, he had the
location for his big range stuff, he had all the financial backing any reasonable man could
want. He had a salary that in itself gauged the prestige he had gained among producers, and
as an added incentive to do the biggest work of his life he had a contract giving him a royalty
on all prints of his pictures in excess of a fixed number. Better than all this, he had big
ideals and an enthusiasm for the work that knew no limitations.

Perhaps he was inclined to dream too big; per-haps he assumed too great an enthusiasm on the
part of those who worked with him--I don't know just where he did place the boundary line.
I do know that he never once suspected the Happy Family of any meditated truancy from the ranch
and his parting instructions to "sit tight." I also know that the Happy Family was not at all
likely to volunteer information of their lapse. The Rape of the Sabines is his masterpiece,
and the Mercury is one of the best works of its kind since the days of classic art. It is
the favorite Mercury of the world, and has been frequently copied. It is seen in many galleries
and collections in its original size, and a small copy is much used
in private houses.

(Fig. 109.)
Giovanni was especially happy in his designs for fountains, and that
which he erected in Bologna, in 1564, in front of the Palazzo Pubblico,
is a splendid work of this kind.

The statue of Neptune at its summit is stately and free in its action;
the children are charming and life-like, and the Sirens at the base
give an harmonious finish and complete the outline with easy grace.

He also erected a magnificent fountain in the island of the Boboli Gardens. In the Palazzo Vecchio
is a marble group by Giovanni representing Virtue conquering Vice. At Petraja there is a beautiful
Venus crowning a fountain remarkable for grace and delicacy, and, all in all, his works prove
him to have been the best sculptor of his own time.

Tuscany may claim him and be proud of him, for he was far more her
son than that of his native Flanders.

Giovanni
da Bologna was far less successful in reliefs than in statues, as may be seen in the bronze
gates to the Cathedral of Pisa, which he made in the last years of his life. In his character this master
was attractive and much beloved by his friends. One of them wrote of him: "The best fellow in the
world, not in the least covetous, as he shows by his poverty; filled
with a love of glory, and ambitious of rivalling Michael Angelo."

Giovanni decorated a chapel in the Church of the Annunziata with several reliefs in bronze and
with a crucifix; he not only wished to be buried here himself, as he was, but he also desired to provide
a place of burial for any of his countrymen who might die in Florence. The chapel is called that
of the Madonna del Soccorso.

The decline of sculpture in Italy at this period makes its study so unpromising that it is a
pleasure to turn to France, where the works of JEAN GOUJON show that he had the true idea of sculpture
in relief. From 1555 to 1562 this sculptor was employed on the works at the Louvre, and during
the massacre of St. Bartholomew he was shot while on a scaffold quietly working at a bas-relief
on that palace.

Goujon was an architect as well as a sculptor, and also a medal engraver, as is shown by the curious
and rare medal which he made for Catherine de'Medici. Many of his works are preserved in different
parts of France, and some bas-reliefs in the Museum of the Louvre are excellent specimens of his
style.

One also sees in France many works by GERMAIN PILON, who died in
1590.

He executed the monument to Francis I., and took a part in that of Henry II. and Catherine de'Medici
at the Church of St. Denis. He was the sculptor of the group of the three Graces in the Louvre,
which formerly bore an urn containing the heart of Henry II., and was in the Church of the Celestines.
But the sculptors of France at this time are not of such interest
as to hold our attention long.

There was a certain amount of spirit in their decorations of palaces and tombs, but there
were no men of great genius, and no splendid works upon which we can dwell with pleasure or profit.
In Germany, too, while there was much activity in sculpture, and public fountains and luxurious
palaces and rich ornaments employed many artists, yet there was no
originality or freshness in these works, and they fell below those
of the past.

Bronzes are still made at Nuremberg, but they only serve to make one regret
that they are so inferior to those of earlier days; and nowhere in all Germany
does any one artist stand out and present a man to be studied in his
works or remembered as one of the gifted of the earth.

And yet a list of the names of German sculptors of this time would be very long, for all over
the land churches were being decorated, monuments built, and statues and fountains erected. In
England the best sculpture of the sixteenth century was seen in the portrait statues on monuments,
and we find no great artists there of whom to give an account. In Spain ALONSO BERRUGUETE
(1480-1561), who was the most eminent artist of his time, had introduced
the Italian manner.

He went to Italy about 1503, and studied in Rome and Florence during seventeen years. This was at the
time when Italian sculpture was at the height of its excellence;
and Berruguete returned to Spain filled with the purest and best conceptions
of what art should be, and the ends it should serve.

He has been called the Michael Angelo of Spain, because he was an architect, painter, and sculptor.
Upon his return to Spain he was appointed painter and sculptor to Charles V. Among his most celebrated
works in sculpture are the reliefs in the choir of the Cathedral at Toledo; the altar in the Church of
San Benito el Real at Valladolid (Fig. 110), for which he was paid
forty-four hundred ducats, and his sculptures in the Collegio Mayor
at Salamanca.

His final work was a monument to the Cardinal and Grand Inquisitor,
Don Juan de Tavera, which is in the Church of the Hospital of St.
John at Toledo.

The
sarcophagus is ornamented by reliefs from the story of John the Baptist, which are executed in an
excellent manner, simple and expressive. Other Spanish sculptors
were ESTEBAN JORDAN, an eminent wood-carver, GREGORIO HERNANDEZ (1566-1636),
who has been called "the sculptor of religion." His works are so full
of a spirit of devotion that they seem to have been executed under
an inspiration.

Hernandez was very devout in his life, and did many works of charity; he often provided decent
burial for the very poor who died without friends who could bury
them.

Many of his works have been removed from the chapels for which they were designed, and are now
in the Museum of Valladolid, where they are not as effective as when
placed in their original positions.

He is superior to other Spanish sculptors in his representation of nude figures and in the grandeur
of his expression. JUAN DE JUNI (died 1614) studied in Italy, and acquired much mannerism; his
works are seen in Valladolid. JUAN MARTINEZ MONTAÑES (died 1650) was a famous sculptor, and excelled
in figures of children and cherubs. His conceptions had much beauty
and depth of feeling, and his draperies were most graceful; and to
this power of thinking out clearly and well the subject he wished
to represent he added the ability to do his work in an artistic manner,
and to give it an elegance of finish without taking away its strength.

A Conception by him, in the Cathedral of Seville, is a noble work, and in the university church
of the same city there is an altar which is one of his important
works. Other sculptures by Montañes are in the Museum of Seville.

The great ALONSO CANO (1601-1667) was a pupil of Montañes in sculpture, and, like so many other artists
of his time, was a painter and architect as well as a sculptor.

His personal history is very peculiar. He was a man of violent temper,
and was often involved in serious quarrels.

He was obliged to flee from Granada to Madrid on account of a duel, and when his wife was found
murdered in her bed he was suspected of the crime. In spite of all this he took priest's
orders, and was appointed to a canonry in the Cathedral of Granada; but on account of his
temper he was deprived of this office by the chapter of the cathedral.
He was so angry at this that he would do no more work for the cathedral.

He devoted the remainder of his life to religious and charitable works. He gave away the money he
earned as soon as he received it, and when he had no money to give away he was in the habit
of making drawings, which he signed and marked with a suitable price;
these he gave to the person he desired to assist, and recommended
some person to whom application to buy the work could be made.

After his death a large number of these charitable works was collected. He hated Jews with such
hatred that he could not endure to look at one, and many strange
stories are told of him in connection with these people.

He loved his chisel better than his brush, and was accustomed to say that when weary he carved
for rest. One of his pupils expressed great surprise at this, when Cano answered, "Blockhead,
don't you perceive that to create form and relief on a flat surface is a greater service than to
fashion one shape into another?" The most beautiful sculpture by Cano which remains is a Virgin
about a foot high in the Sacristy of the Cathedral of Granada, where
there are several other statuettes by him.

These are colored in a manner which the Spaniards call "estofado;"
it has the effect to soften the whole appearance of the works, like
an enamel.

At the entrance of the choir of the cathedral there are two colossal busts by Cano; they are grand
works, and are called Adam and Eve. PEDRO ROLDAN (1624-1700), born at Seville, is an interesting
sculptor because of his work, and on account of his being the last one whose manner was like that
of Juni and Hernandez. His first celebrated work was the high-altar in the chapel of the Biscayans
in the Franciscan convent.

When the Caridad, or Hospital of Charity, was restored, Roldan executed the last great work in painted
sculpture; it was an immense piece for the centre of the retablo
of the high-altar of the church, and represented the Entombment of
Christ.

Seville abounds in his works, and he executed bas-reliefs in stone for the exterior of the Cathedral
at Jaen. He was so devoted to his art that he felt every moment to be lost that was not spent in
its service. He married a lady of good family, and lived in the country; when obliged to go to Seville
he was accustomed to carry a lump of clay, and model from it as he
rode along.

Roldan was not by any means the best of Spanish sculptors, but he had great skill in the composition
of his works, and the draperies and all the details were carefully studied.
His daughter, Doña Luisa Roldan, studied sculpture under her father's
instruction, and became a good artist; he was accustomed to allow
her to superintend her studio and his pupils.

She often aided him by her suggestions, and on one occasion, when a statue that he had made was rejected,
she pointed out to him certain anatomical defects, which he remedied, and the whole appearance of
the work was so changed that it was thought to be new, and was accepted
for the place for which it had been ordered.

The works executed by Doña Luisa were principally small figures of the
Virgin, the Adoration of the Shepherds, and kindred subjects. Several
of these were presented to King Charles II., and he was so pleased
by them that he ordered a life-size statue of St. Michael for the
Church of the Escorial.

She executed this to his satisfaction, and he then appointed her sculptress in ordinary to the king. She
died at Madrid in 1704, surviving her father but four years. She left works in various convents
and churches. In Italy at the beginning of the seventeenth century a new era in sculpture was
inaugurated.

Art was now required to serve the Church in the way of appealing to sentiments and feeling in a far
coarser and more sensational a manner than formerly. Painting was suited to these purposes far
more than sculpture, and it had been raised to great heights, in
Spain, by Murillo, in the North by Rubens and his followers, and in
Italy by numerous masters.

Lübke says of this period: "All that was now demanded of art was effect and feeling at any price.
The one was attained through the other. A passionate excitement pulsates
throughout all artistic works; the ideal repose of the former altar-pieces
no longer satisfied.

Longing, devotional ardor, passionate rapture, enthusiastic ecstasy-- these are the aims of the new
art. No longer the solemn dignity of the saint, but the nervous visions of enraptured monks,
are its ideal. It delights in thrilling delineations of martyrdom, seeking
to render such scenes as effective and touching as possible. A desire for
substantial power, a political-religious tendency, had taken possession
of art, and had adapted it to its own objects.

That, under such circumstances, painting reaches a new and truly
artistic importance may be traced above all to the great masters who now
cultivated the art, and still more to the tone of the age, which promoted
it in a rare measure.... The same spirit, however, which imparted such
genuine importance to painting produced the ruin of sculpture.

This epoch, more than any other, is a proof that the greatest men of talent, appearing in a
perverted age, are carried by their very genius all the more certainly to ruin. All that, in
a more favorable period, would have raised them to be stars in the art firmament, now made them
fall like some ignis fatuus, the brilliant light of which owes its illusory existence only to miasma.
This striking fact appears, at first sight, inexplicable; but it is easy to understand, if
we consider the different character of the two arts.

Plastic art had formerly emulated painting, and thus, especially in relief, had suffered unmistakable
injury to its own peculiar nature. At that time, however, painting itself was full of architectural
severity and plastic nobleness of form. Now, when everything depended on striking effect and speaking
delineation of passionate emotions, it was compelled to have recourse
to naturalistic representation, to freer arrangements and to more striking
forms that emulated reality.

If, however, sculpture, which could not keep pace with its rival in the enamelled coloring and mysterious
charm of the chiaro-oscuro which it brought into the field, would, in anywise, do the same as painting,
it was compelled to plunge regardlessly into the same naturalism
of forms and into the same bold display of passion with which painting
produced such grand effects.

And this sculpture did without the slightest scruple, and in this lack of an artistic conscience
its whole glory perished. It is true in this passion for excited compositions an excess of splendid
works were produced; it is true immense resources were expended, and able artists were employed;
but such inner hollowness stares at us with inanimate eye from the greater number of these works that
we turn from them with repugnance, and even often with disgust."
The artist who first met this new demand upon sculpture, and may
be called the founder of a new style, was GIOVANNI LORENZO BERNINI
(1598-1680), a very gifted man.

When but ten years old this remarkable genius was known as a prodigy in art, and it was at this early
age that his father took him to Rome. Pope Paul V. was soon interested
in him, and Cardinal Barberini assisted him in his studies; from this
fortunate beginning all through his life good fortune attended his
steps.

He lived through the pontificate of nine popes, and was always in favor with the reigning head of the
Church. This gave him the opportunity to fill Rome with his works, and he imprinted himself upon the
art of the Eternal City; no artist since the time of Michael Angelo
held such sway, and Bernini acquired his power easily, while the
grand Michael Angelo was disputed at every step, and fought a long,
hard battle before he was allowed to take the place which was so clearly
his by right.

Annie-Many-Ponies took a minute for deliberation--which is the Indian way. Ramon, having learned
patience, said no more but watched her slant-eyed.

"I tell," she promised at last, and added, "I go now." Then she slipped away. And Ramon, though
he stood for several minutes by the rock smiling queerly and staring down the arroyo, caught
not the slightest glimpse of her after she left him. He knew that she would deliver faithfully
his message to Bill Holmes, she had given her word. That was one great advantage, considered
Ramon, in dealing with those direct, uncompromising natures. She might torment him with her
aloofness and her reticence, but once he had won her to a full confidence and submission he
need not trouble himself further about her loyalty. She would tell Bill Holmes--and, what was
vastly more important, she would do it secretly; he had not dared to speak of that, but he
thought he might safely trust to her natural wariness. So Ramon, after a little, stole away
to his own camp quite satisfied.

The next night, when he stood in the shadow of the rock ledge and waited, he was not startled
by the unexpected presence of the person he wanted to see. For although Bill Holmes came as
cautiously as he knew how, and avoided the wide, bright-lighted stretches of arroyo where he
would have been plainly visible, Ramon both saw and heard him before he reached the ledge.
What Ramon did not see or hear was Annie-Many-Ponies, who did not quite believe that those
two wished merely to talk about a silver bridle, and who meant to listen and find out why it
was that they could not talk openly before all the boys.

Annie-Many-Ponies had ways of her own. She did not tell Ramon that she doubted his word, nor
did she refuse to deliver the message. She waited calmly until Bill Holmes left camp stealthily
that night, and she followed him. It was perfectly simple and sensible and the right thing
to do; if you wanted to know for sure whether a person lied to you, you had but to watch and
listen and let your own eyes and ears prove guilt or innocence.

So Annie-Many-Ponies stood by the rock and listened and watched. She did not see any silver
bridle. She heard many words, but the two were speaking in that strange Spanish talk which
she did not know at all, save "Querida mia," which Ramon had told her meant sweetheart.

The two talked, low-voiced and earnest, Bill was telling all that he knew of Luck Lindsay's
plans--and that was not much.

"He don't talk," Bill complained. "He just tells the bunch a day ahead--just far enough to
get their makeup and costumes on, generally. But he won't stay around here much longer; he's
taken enough spring roundup stuff now for half a dozen pictures. He'll be moving in to the
ranch again pretty quick. And I know this picture calls for a lot of town business that he'll
have to take. I saw the script the other day." It is true indeed that the breadfruit is not always
in season; but coconuts, bananas, plantains, and a great variety
of other fruits supply the deficiency.

Page 197.

EXTRACT FROM THE ACCOUNT OF CAPTAIN COOK'S LAST VOYAGE.

IN THE SOCIETY ISLANDS.

I (Captain Cook) have inquired very carefully into their manner of cultivating the breadfruit tree at
Otaheite; but was always answered that they never planted it.

This indeed must be evident to everyone who will examine the places where the young trees come
up. It will be always observed that they spring from the roots of the old ones which run along
near the surface of the ground. So that the breadfruit trees may be reckoned those that would
naturally cover the plains, even supposing that the island was not inhabited, in the same manner
that the white-barked trees, found at Van Diemen's Land, constitute the forests there. And
from this we may observe that the inhabitant of Otaheite, instead
of being obliged to plant his bread, will RATHER be under the necessity
of preventing its progress; which I suppose is sometimes done to give
room for trees of another sort, to afford him some variety in his
food.

Volume 2 page 145.

IN THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.

The breadfruit trees are planted, and flourish with great luxuriance, on rising grounds. Where
the hills rise almost perpendicularly in a great variety of peaked forms, their steep sides and
the deep chasms between them are covered with trees, amongst which those of the breadfruit
were observed particularly to abound. Volume 3 pages 105 and 114,
containing Captain King's Narrative.

The
climate of the Sandwich Islands differs very little from that of the West India Islands, which lie
IN THE SAME LATITUDE. Upon the whole perhaps it may be rather more temperate. Captain King ib
page 116.

The breadfruit trees thrive in these islands, not in such abundance, but produce double the
quantity of fruit they do on the rich plains of Otaheite. The trees are nearly of the same height,
but the branches begin to strike out from the trunk much lower, and with greater luxuriance.
Captain King ib page 120.

1787. December. Sunday 23.

On Sunday morning the 23rd of December 1787 we sailed from Spithead
and, passing through the Needles, directed our course down channel
with a fresh gale of wind at east.

In the afternoon one of the seamen, in furling the main-top-gallant-sail, fell off the yard and
was so fortunate as to save himself by catching hold of the main-top-mast-stay in his fall. At
night the wind increased to a strong gale with a heavy sea.

Tuesday 25.

It moderated however on the 25th and allowed us to keep our Christmas with cheerfulness; but the following
day it blew a severe storm of wind from the eastward, which continued till the 29th, in the course
of which we suffered greatly.

One sea broke away the spare yards and spars out of the starboard main chains. Another heavy
sea broke into the ship and stove all the boats. Several casks of beer that had been lashed upon
deck were broke loose and washed overboard, and it was not without
great difficulty and risk that we were able to secure the boats from
being washed away entirely.

Saturday 29.

On the 29th we were in latitude 39 degrees 35 minutes north and longitude 14 degrees 26 minutes
west when the gale abated and the weather became fair.

Besides other mischief done to us by the storm, a large quantity of our bread was damaged and
rendered useless, for the sea had stove in our stern and filled the cabin with water. From this
time to our arrival at Tenerife we had moderate weather and winds
mostly from the northward.

1788. January.

January 4.

This forenoon we spoke a French ship bound to the Mauritius.

Saturday 5. Tenerife.

The next day at nine in the forenoon we saw the island of Tenerife bearing west-south-west half
west about twelve leagues distant. It was covered with a thick haze except the north-westernmost
part which is a remarkable headland, resembling a horse's head, the
ears very distinct.

To the eastward of this head* lie two round rocks, the northern boundary of Tenerife. I had a good
observation at noon by which I make the latitude of the two rocks
28 degrees 44 minutes north and their longitude by our timekeeper
16 degrees 5 minutes west.

To the southward of these and near the shore is a high needle rock: about four leagues farther
to the southward the coast inclines towards the west to the road of Santa Cruz, where we anchored
at half-past nine on Sunday morning in twenty-five fathoms water, and moored along shore in
the same depth, with the cupola tower of the church of St. Francis bearing west half north
one mile, the east part of the road east by north, the castle on the south point south-west, and
the west part of the Grand Canary south-south-east. A Spanish packet bound to Corunna, an
American brig, and several other vessels, were lying here.

(* Footnote.

South 82 degrees east by the compass.) As soon as the ship was anchored I sent an officer
(Mr. Christian) to wait on the governor and to acquaint him I had put
in to obtain refreshments and to repair the damages we had sustained
in bad weather.

To this I had a very polite answer from the governor,* that I should be supplied with whatever
the island afforded. I had also directed the officer to acquaint him that I would salute, provided
an equal number of guns were to be returned but, as I received an extraordinary answer to this part
of my message, purporting that his excellency did not return the same number but to persons equal
in rank to himself, this ceremony was omitted.

(* Footnote.

Marquis de Brancheforte.) During this interval I was visited by the port-master (Captain Adams)
and shortly afterwards several officers came on board from his excellency to compliment me on my
arrival. As soon as the ship was moored I went on shore and paid
my respects to him.

Monday 7.

On Monday morning I began to forward the ship's business with the
utmost dispatch, and gave the necessary directions to Messrs. Collogan
and sons, the contractors, for the supplies I wanted.

I also got leave of the governor for Mr. Nelson to range the hills and examine the country in
search of plants and natural curiosities.

As there was a great surf on the shore I bargained for everything I wanted to be brought off
by the shore boats, and agreed to give five shillings per ton for
water.

Very good wine was bought at ten pounds per pipe, the contract price; but the superior quality
was fifteen pounds; and some of this was not much inferior to the
best London Madeira.

I found this was an unfavourable season for other refreshments: Indian corn, potatoes, pumpkins,
and onions, were all very scarce and double the price of what they are in summer. Beef also was
difficult to be procured and exceedingly poor; the price nearly sixpence farthing per pound.
The corn was three current dollars per fanega, which is full five shillings per bushel; and
biscuit at twenty-five shillings for the hundred pounds.

Poultry was so scarce that a good fowl cost three shillings. This is therefore not a place
for ships to expect refreshments at a reasonable price at this time of the year, wine excepted;
but from March to November supplies are plentiful, particularly fruit, of which at this time we could
procure none except a few dried figs and some bad oranges.

NAUTICAL REMARKS.

During our stay here the weather was fair with north-east winds and calms and small drizzling
rain in the night. The thermometer from 66 to 69 degrees at noon
in the shade.

I could make no lunar observations for the longitude, but by the help of the timekeeper I have
computed the situation of the town of Santa Cruz to be 28 degrees 28 minutes north latitude
and 16 degrees 18 minutes west longitude. I observed the variation by two compasses to be 20 degrees
1 minute west: this much exceeded what I could have imagined; for in 1776 I observed it only 14
degrees 40 minutes west; a difference of above five degrees in eleven years: and this makes
me reflect on the uncertainty of obtaining the exact deviation of the magnetic pole, and of
course its annual variation which never can be accurately ascertained unless the observations are
made always in one spot and with the same compass.

Tenerife, though considerably without the tropic, is so nearly within the limits of the tradewind
that navigators generally steer to it from the eastward.

The road of Santa Cruz lies on the east side of the island, at the end of a range of craggy
hills, barren and very lofty, along with you sail west by south by
compass into the road, with a sea unfathomable until near the shore.

The anchoring ground may be accounted from fifty fathoms to twenty, or even fifteen. The bank
is very steep and gives but little time to sound; for which reason it should be done effectually
with a heavy lead, or a ship will be too near in before a stranger
is aware of it: he will likewise too soon expect to find bottom, owing
to the great deception of the adjacent high land.

To obviate these difficulties it is necessary to observe that while a town which lies some
distance to the southward of Santa Cruz is open with the castle on the south part of the road,
though you may appear near to the shore, there is no anchorage; but after it is shut entirely
in you get on the bank. The church bearing west or west by south and the south point of the
road south-west half south to south-west by west is a good situation for anchoring: the depth
about twenty-five fathoms. The distance from the shore will be three quarters of a mile; and
the southernmost land that can be seen then will be a half or quarter
point of the compass farther out than the south point of the road.

The bottom is black soft mud, with some patches of rocks; for which reason vessels that lie
here any length of time buoy their cables. This precaution, besides being useful in that particular,
they think makes them ride more easy when there is much sea setting into the road, which, with
the wind any way to the southward of east or at south-west, must
be very considerable; it is therefore usual to moor with four anchors,
though more than two are scarce ever of use.

Mooring is however advisable if a ship is only to remain twenty-four hours, and the tighter the
better, that the cables may keep clear of the ground.

The landing on the beach is generally impracticable with our own boats, at least without great
risk; but there is a very fine pier on which people may land without difficulty if there is
not much swell in the road. To this pier the water is conveyed by pipes for the use of shipping,
and for which all merchant-ships pay.

There is a degree of wretchedness and want among the lower class of people which is not anywhere
so common as among the Spanish and Portuguese settlements.

To alleviate these evils the present governor of Tenerife has instituted a most charitable
society which he takes the trouble to superintend; and by considerable contributions a large
airy dwelling that contains one hundred and twenty poor girls and as many men and boys has been
built and endowed with a sufficiency of land round it, not only for all present purposes but
for enlarging the building for more objects of charity as their funds increase. I had the honour
to be shown by his excellency this asylum (Hospicio they call it) where there appeared in every
countenance the utmost cheerfulness and content.

The decency and neatness of the dress of the young females, with the order in which they were arranged
at their spinning-wheels and looms in an extensive airy apartment, was admirable. A governess
inspected and regulated all their works, which were the manufacturing of ribbons of all colours,
coarse linens, and tapes; all which were managed and brought to perfection
by themselves from the silk and flax in their first state; even the
dying of the colours is performed by them.

These girls are received for five years, at the end of which they are at liberty to marry, and
have for their portions their wheel and loom, with a sum of money proportioned to the state
of the fund, which is assisted by the produce of their labour, and at this time was estimated
at two thousand dollars per annum.

The men and boys are not less attended to: they are employed in coarser work, blanketing and
all kinds of common woollens: if they become infirm they spend the
remainder of their days here comfortably and under a watchful inspector
who attends them in the same manner as the governess does the girls.
They are all visited every day by the governor, and a clergyman attends
them every evening. By this humane institution a number of people
are rendered useful and industrious in a country where the poor, from
the indulgence of the climate, are too apt to prefer a life of inactivity,
though attended with wretchedness, to obtaining the comforts of life
by industry and labour.

The number of inhabitants in the island I
was informed were estimated at between eighty and one hundred thousand.
Their annual export of wine is twenty thousand pipes and of brandy
half that quantity. Vessels are frequently here from St. Eustatia,
and from thence a great quantity of Tenerife wine is carried to the
different parts of the West Indies, under the name of Madeira.

Tenerife
is considered of more value than all the other Canaries: the inhabitants
however, in scarce seasons, receive supplies from the Grand Canary;
but their vineyards here are said to be greatly superior. Their produce
of corn, though exceedingly good, is not sufficient for their consumption;
and owing to this the Americans have an advantageous trade here for
their flour and grain, and take wine in return.

The town of Santa
Cruz is about half a mile in extent each way, built in a regular manner,
and the houses in general large and airy, but the streets are very
ill paved. I am told that they are subject to few diseases; but if
any epidemic distemper breaks out it is attended with the most fatal
consequences, particularly the smallpox, the bad effects of which
they now endeavour to counteract by inoculation. For this reason they
are very circumspect in admitting ships to have communication with
the shore without bills of health.

A sloop from London, called the
Chance, William Meridith, master, bound to Barbados, out nineteen
days from the Downs, came into the road the day before we sailed.
She had suffered much by the bad weather but, having brought no bill
of health, the governor would not allow any person to come on shore
unless I could vouch for them that no epidemic disease raged in England
at the time they sailed, which I was able to do, it being nearly at
the same time that I left the land; and by that means they had the
governor's permission to receive the supplies they wanted without
being obliged to perform quarantine.

Thursday 10.

Having finished
our business at Tenerife on Thursday the 10th we sailed with the wind
at south-east, our ship's company all in good health and spirits.

CHAPTER VI. "I GO WHERE WAGALEXA CONKA SAY"

That afternoon Ramon joined them, suave as ever and seeming very much at peace with the world
and his fellow-beings. He watched the new leading woman make a perilous ride down a steep,
rocky point and dash up to camera and on past it where she set her horse back upon, its haunches
with a fine disregard for her bones and a still finer instinct for putting just the right dash
of the spectacular into her work without overdoing it.

"That senora, she's all right, you bet!" he praised the feat to those who stood near him; "me,
I not be stuck on ron my caballo down that place. You bet she's fine rider. My sombrero, he's
come off to that lady!"

Jean, hearing, glanced at him with that little quirk of the lips which was the beginning of
a smile, and rode off to join her father and Lite Avery. "He made that sound terribly sincere,
didn't he?" she commented. "It takes a Mexican to lift flattery up among the fine arts." Then
she thought no more about it.

Annie-Many-Ponies was sitting apart, on a rock where her gay blanket made a picturesque splotch
of color against the gray barrenness of the hill behind her. She, too, heard what Ramon said,
and she, too, thought that he had made the praise sound terribly sincere. He had not spoken
to her at all after the first careless nod of recognition when he rode up. And although her
reason had approved of his caution, her sore heart ached for a little kindness from him. She
turned her eyes toward him now with a certain wistfulness; but though Ramon chanced to be looking
toward her she got no answering light in his eyes, no careful little signal that his heart
was yearning for her. He seemed remote, as indifferent to her as were any of the others dulled
by accustomedness to her constant presence among them. In 1840 Wheatstone also brought out his magneto-electrical
machine for generating continuous currents, and his chronoscope,
for measuring minute intervals of time, which was used in determining
the speed of a bullet or the passage of a star.

In this apparatus an electric current actuated an electro-magnet, which noted the instant of
an occurrence by means of a pencil on a moving paper. It is said to have been capable of distinguishing
1/ 7300 part of a second, and the time a body took to fall from
a height of one inch.

The same year he was awarded the Royal Medal of the Royal Society
for his explanation of binocular vision, a research which led him
to construct the stereoscope.

He showed that our impression of solidity is gained by the combination in the mind of two separate
pictures of an object taken by both of our eyes from different points
of view.

Thus, in the stereoscope, an arrangement of lenses and mirrors, two photographs of the same object
taken from different points are so combined as to make the object stand out with a solid aspect.
Sir David Brewster improved the stereoscope by dispensing with the mirrors, and bringing it
into its existing form.

The'pseudoscope'(Wheatstone was partial to exotic forms of speech) was introduced by its professor in
1850, and is in some sort the reverse of the stereoscope, since it causes a solid object to
seem hollow, and a nearer one to be farther off; thus, a bust appears
to be a mask, and a tree growing outside of a window looks as if it
were growing inside the room.

On November 26, 1840, he exhibited his electro-magnetic clock in the
library of the Royal Society, and propounded a plan for distributing
the correct time from a standard clock to a number of local timepieces.

The circuits of these were to be electrified by a key or contact-maker actuated by the arbour
of the standard, and their hands corrected by electro-magnetism. The following January Alexander
Bain took out a patent for an electro-magnetic clock, and he subsequently charged Wheatstone
with appropriating his ideas.

It appears that Bain worked as a mechanist to Wheatstone from August to December, 1840, and
he asserted that he had communicated the idea of an electric clock to Wheatstone during that
period; but Wheatstone maintained that he had experimented in that direction during May. Bain
further accused Wheatstone of stealing his idea of the electro-magnetic
printing telegraph; but Wheatstone showed that the instrument was
only a modification of his own electro-magnetic telegraph.

In 1843 Wheatstone communicated an important paper to the Royal Society,
entitled'An Account of Several New Processes for Determining the
Constants of a Voltaic Circuit.'It contained an exposition of the
well-known balance for measuring the electrical resistance of a conductor,
which still goes by the name of Wheatstone's Bridge or balance, although
it was first devised by Mr. S. W. Christie, of the Royal Military
Academy, Woolwich, who published it in the PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS
for 1833.

The method was neglected until Wheatstone brought it into notice.

His paper abounds with simple and practical formula: for the calculation
of currents and resistances by the law of Ohm.

He introduced a unit of resistance, namely, a foot of copper wire weighing one hundred grains,
and showed how it might be applied to measure the length of wire
by its resistance.

He was awarded a medal for his paper by the Society. The same year he invented an apparatus which
enabled the reading of a thermometer or a barometer to be registered at a distance by means
of an electric contact made by the mercury. A sound telegraph, in which the signals were given
by the strokes of a bell, was also patented by Cooke and Wheatstone
in May of that year.

The introduction of the telegraph had so far advanced that, on September 2, 1845, the Electric
Telegraph Company was registered, and Wheatstone, by his deed of
partnership with Cooke, received a sum of L33, 000 for the use of their
joint inventions.

From 1836-7 Wheatstone had thought a good deal about submarine telegraphs, and in 1840 he gave
evidence before the Railway Committee of the House of Commons on
the feasibility of the proposed line from Dover to Calais.

He had even designed the machinery for making and laying the cable. In the autumn of 1844, with
the assistance of Mr. J. D. Llewellyn, he submerged a length of insulated
wire in Swansea Bay, and signalled through it from a boat to the Mumbles
Lighthouse.

Next year he suggested the use of gutta-percha for the coating of the intended wire across
the Channel.

Though silent and reserved in public, Wheatstone was a clear and voluble
talker in private, if taken on his favourite studies, and his small
but active person, his plain but intelligent countenance, was full
of animation.

Sir Henry Taylor tells us that he once observed Wheatstone at an evening party in Oxford earnestly
holding forth to Lord Palmerston on the capabilities of his telegraph.'You don't say so!'exclaimed the
statesman.'I must get you to tell that to the Lord Chancellor.'And so saying, he fastened the electrician
on Lord Westbury, and effected his escape. A reminiscence of this interview may have prompted
Palmerston to remark that a time was coming when a minister might be asked in Parliament if
war had broken out in India, and would reply,'Wait a minute; I'll just
telegraph to the Governor-General, and let you know.'At Christchurch,
Marylebone, on February 12, 1847, Wheatstone was married.

His wife was the daughter of a Taunton tradesman, and of handsome
appearance.

She died in 1866, leaving a family of five young children to his care. His domestic life was quiet
and uneventful. One of Wheatstone's most ingenious devices was the'Polar
clock,'exhibited at the meeting of the British Association in 1848.

It
is based on the fact discovered by Sir David Brewster, that the light of the sky is polarised
in a plane at an angle of ninety degrees from the position of the
sun.

It follows that by discovering that plane of polarisation, and measuring its azimuth with respect
to the north, the position of the sun, although beneath the horizon,
could be determined, and the apparent solar time obtained.

The clock consisted of a spy-glass, having a nichol or double-image prism for an eye-piece, and a
thin plate of selenite for an object-glass. When the tube was directed to the North Pole-- that
is, parallel to the earth's axis-- and the prism of the eye-piece turned until no colour was seen, the
angle of turning, as shown by an index moving with the prism over a graduated limb, gave the hour of
day. The device is of little service in a country where watches are
reliable; but it formed part of the equipment of the North Polar
expedition commanded by Captain Nares. Wheatstone's remarkable ingenuity
was displayed in the invention of cyphers which have never been unravelled,
and interpreting cypher manuscripts in the British Museum which had
defied the experts.

He devised a cryptograph or machine for turning a message into cypher which could only be interpreted
by putting the cypher into a corresponding machine adjusted to reproduce it. The rapid development
of the telegraph in Europe may be gathered from the fact that in 1855, the death of the Emperor Nicholas
at St. Petersburg, about one o'clock in the afternoon, was announced in the House of Lords a few
hours later; and as a striking proof of its further progress, it may be mentioned that the result
of the Oaks of 1890 was received in New York fifteen seconds after
the horses passed the winning-post.

Wheatstone's next great invention was the automatic transmitter, in which
the signals of the message are first punched out on a strip of paper, which
is then passed through the sending-key, and controls the signal currents.
By substituting a mechanism for the hand in sending the message, he was able
to telegraph about 100 words a minute, or five times the ordinary rate.
In the Postal Telegraph service this apparatus is employed for sending
Press telegrams, and it has recently been so much improved, that messages
are now sent from London to Bristol at a speed of 600 words a minute,
and even of 400 words a minute between London and Aberdeen.

On the night of April 8, 1886, when Mr. Gladstone introduced his Bill
for Home Rule in Ireland, no fewer than 1,500,000 words were despatched
from the central station at St. Martin's-le-Grand by 100 Wheatstone
transmitters.

Were Mr. Gladstone himself to speak for a whole week, night and day, and with his usual facility,
he could hardly surpass this achievement. The plan of sending messages by a running strip of paper
which actuates the key was originally patented by Bain in 1846; but Wheatstone,
aided by Mr. Augustus Stroh, an accomplished mechanician, and an able experimenter,
was the first to bring the idea into successful operation. In 1859 Wheatstone
was appointed by the Board of Trade to report on the subject of the
Atlantic cables, and in 1864 he was one of the experts who advised
the Atlantic Telegraph Company on the construction of the successful
lines of 1865 and 1866.

On February 4, 1867, he published the principle of reaction in the dynamo-electric machine by a paper
to the Royal Society; but Mr. C. W. Siemens had communicated the identical discovery ten days
earlier, and both papers were read on the same day. It afterwards appeared that Herr Werner Siemens,
Mr. Samuel Alfred Varley, and Professor Wheatstone had independently arrived at the principle within
a few months of each other. Varley patented it on December 24, 1866; Siemens
called attention to it on January 17, 1867; and Wheatstone exhibited it
in action at the Royal Society on the above date. But it will be seen
from our life of William Siemens that Soren Hjorth, a Danish inventor,
had forestalled them.

In 1870 the electric telegraph lines of the United Kingdom, worked by different companies, were
transferred to the Post Office, and placed under Government control. Wheatstone was knighted
in 1868, after his completion of the automatic telegraph. He had previously been made a Chevalier
of the Legion of Honour. Some thirty-four distinctions and diplomas of home or foreign societies
bore witness to his scientific reputation. Since 1836 he had been a Fellow of the Royal Society, and
in 1873 he was appointed a Foreign Associate of the French Academy
of Sciences.

The same year he was awarded the Ampere Medal by the French Society for the Encouragement of National
Industry. In 1875 he was created an honorary member of the Institution of Civil Engineers. He
was a D. C. L. of Oxford and an LL. D. of Cambridge. While on a visit to Paris during the autumn
of 1875, and engaged in perfecting his receiving instrument for submarine
cables, he caught a cold, which produced inflammation of the lungs,
an illness from which he died in Paris, on October 19, 1875.

A memorial service was held in the Anglican Chapel, Paris, and attended by a deputation of the
Academy.

His remains were taken to his home in Park Crescent, London, and buried in Kensal Green. CHAPTER
III. SAMUEL MORSE.

Cooke and Wheatstone were the first to introduce a public telegraph worked by electro-magnetism; but
it had the disadvantage of not marking down the message. There was still room for an instrument which
would leave a permanent record that might be read at leisure, and
this was the invention of Samuel Finley Breeze Morse.

He was born at the foot of Breed's Hill, in Charlestown, Massachusetts, on the 27th of April,
1791.

The place was a little over a mile from where Benjamin Franklin was born, and the date was
a little over a year after he died. His family was of British origin. Anthony Morse, of Marlborough,
in Wiltshire, had emigrated to America in 1635, and settled in Newbury,
Massachusetts, He and his descendants prospered.

The grandfather of Morse was a member of the Colonial and State Legislatures, and his father, Jedediah
Morse, D. D., was a well-known divine of his day, and the author of
Morse's AMERICAN GEOGRAPHY, as well as a compiler of a UNIVERSAL GAZETTEER.
His mother was Elizabeth Ann Breeze, apparently of Welsh extraction,
and the grand-daughter of Samuel Finley, a distinguished President
of the Princeton College.

Jedediah Morse is reputed a man of talent, industry, and vigour, with high aims for the good of
his fellow-men, ingenious to conceive, resolute in action, and sanguine of success. His wife
is described as a woman of calm, reflective mind, animated conversation,
and engaging manners.

They had two other sons besides Samuel, the second of whom, Sidney
E. Morse, was founder of the New York OBSERVER, an able mathematician,
author of the ART OF CEROGRAPHY, or engraving upon wax, to stereotype
from, and inventor of a barometer for sounding the deep-sea.

Sidney was the trusted friend and companion of his elder brother. At the age of four Samuel was
sent to an infant school kept by an old lady, who being lame, was unable to leave her chair, but carried
her authority to the remotest parts of her dominion by the help of
a long rattan. Samuel, like the rest, had felt the sudden apparition
of this monitor.

Having scratched a portrait of the dame upon a chest of drawers with the point of a pin, he was
called out and summarily punished. Years later, when he became notable, the drawers were treasured
by one of his admirers. He entered a preparatory school at Andover, Mass., when he was seven years old,
and showed himself an eager pupil. Among other books, he was delighted with Plutarch's LIVES,
and at thirteen he composed a biography of Demosthenes, long preserved by his family. A year
later he entered Yale College as a freshman. During his curriculum he attended the lectures of
Professor Jeremiah Day on natural philosophy and Professor Benjamin Sieliman on chemistry, and it
was then he imbibed his earliest knowledge of electricity. In 1809-10
Dr. Day was teaching from Enfield's text-book on philosophy, that'if
the (electric) circuit be interrupted, the fluid will become visible,
and when: it passes it will leave an impression upon any intermediate
body,'and he illustrated this by sending the spark through a metal
chain, so that it became visible between the links, and by causing
it to perforate paper.

Morse afterwards declared this experiment to have been the seed which rooted in his mind and
grew into the'invention of the telegraph.'It is not evident that Morse had any distinct idea
of the electric telegraph in these days; but amidst his lessons in literature and philosophy
he took a special interest in the sciences of electricity and chemistry.

He became acquainted with the voltaic battery through the lectures of his friend, Professor
Sieliman; and we are told that during one of his vacations at Yale
he made a series of electrical experiments with Dr. Dwight. Some years
later he resumed these studies under his friend Professor James Freeman
Dana, of the University of New York, who exhibited the electro-magnet
to his class in 1827, and also under Professor Renwick, of Columbia
College.

Art seems to have had an equal if not a greater charm than science
for Morse at this period.

A boy of fifteen, he made a water-colour sketch of his family sitting round the table; and while
a student at Yale he relieved his father, who was far from rich, of a part of his education by
painting miniatures on ivory, and selling them to his companions at five dollars a-piece. Before
he was nineteen he completed a painting of the'Landing of the Pilgrims at Plymouth,'which formerly hung
in the office of the Mayor, at Charlestown, Massachusetts. On graduating at Yale, in 1810, he
devoted himself to Art, and became a pupil of Washington Allston,
the well-known American painter.

He accompanied Allston to Europe in 1811, and entered the studio of Benjamin West, who was then at
the zenith of his reputation. The friendship of West, with his own introductions and agreeable
personality, enabled him to move in good society, to which he was always partial. William Wilberforce,
Zachary Macaulay, father of the historian, Coleridge, and Copley,
were among his acquaintances.

Leslie, the artist, then a struggling genius like himself, was his fellow-lodger. His heart was
evidently in the profession of his choice.'My passion for my art,'he wrote to his mother, in 1812,'is
so firmly rooted that I am confident no human power could destroy it. The more I study the greater
I think is its claim to the appellation of divine. I am now going
to begin a picture of the death of Hercules the figure to be as large
as life.'After he had perfected this work to his own eyes, he showed it,
with not a little pride, to Mr. West, who after scanning it awhile
said,'Very good, very good.

Go on and finish it.'Morse ventured to say that it was finished.'No! no! no!'answered West;'see
there, and there, and there.

There is much to be done yet. Go on and finish it.'Each time the pupil
showed it the master said,'Go on and finish it.'[THE TELEGRAPH IN
AMERICA, by James D. Reid] This was a lesson in thoroughness of work
and attention to detail which was not lost on the student.

The picture was exhibited at the Royal Academy, in Somerset House, during the summer of 1813, and West
declared that if Morse were to live to his own age he would never make a better composition. The remark
is equivocal, but was doubtless intended as a compliment to the precocity of the young painter.
In order to be correct in the anatomy he had first modelled the figure of his Hercules in clay,
and this cast, by the advice of West, was entered in competition
for a prize in sculpture given by the Society of Arts.

It proved successful, and on May 13 the sculptor was presented with the prize and a gold medal
by the Duke of Norfolk before a distinguished gathering in the Adelphi.


They made the scene twice--the walking past the window and coming in at the door; and the second
time Luck swore at them because they stopped too abruptly at the window and lingered too long
there, looking in at the cashier and his gold, and exchanging meaning glances before they went
to the door.

Later, there was an interior scene with reflectors almost blinding the cashier while he struggled
self-consciously and ineffectually with Ramon Chavez. The gold that Ramon scraped from the
cashier's keeping into his own was not, of course, the real gold which the bandits had seen
through the window. Luck, careful of his responsibilities, had waited while the cashier locked
the bank's money in the vault, and had replaced it with brass coins that looked real--to the
camera.

The cashier lived then the biggest moments of his life. He was forced upon his back across
a desk that had been carefully cleared of the bank's papers and as carefully strewn with worthless
ones which Luck had brought. A realistically uncomfortable gag had been forced into the mouth
of the cashier--where it brought twinges from some fresh dental work, by the way--and the bandits
had taken everything in sight that they fancied.

Ramon and Luis Rojas had proven themselves artists in this particular line of work, and the
cashier, when it was all over and the camera and company were busily at work elsewhere, lived
it in his imagination and felt that he was at least tasting the full flavor of red-blooded
adventure without having to pay the usual price of bitterness and bodily suffering. He was
mistaken, of course--as I am going to explain. What the cashier had taken part in was not the
adventure itself but merely a rehearsal and general preparation for the real performance.

This had been on Wednesday, just after three o'clock in the afternoon. On Saturday forenoon
the cashier was called upon the phone and asked if a part of that robbery stuff could be retaken
that day. The cashier thrilled instantly at the thought of it. Certainly, they could retake
as much as they pleased. Lucks voice--or a voice very like Luck's--thanked him and said that
they would not need to retake the interior stuff. What he wanted was to get the approach to
the bank the entrance and going back to the cashier. That part of the negative was under-timed,
said the voice. And would the cashier make a display of gold behind the wicket, so that the
camera could register it through the window? The cashier thought that he could. "Just stack
it up good and high," directed the voice. "The more the better. And clear the bank--have the
clerks out, and every thing as near as possible to what it was the other day. And you take
up the same position. The scene ends where Ramon comes back and grabs you."

"And listen! You did so well the other day that I'm going to leave this to you, to see that
they get it the same. I can't be there myself--I've got to catch some atmosphere stuff down
here in Old Town. I'm just sending my assistant camera man and the two heavies and my scenic
artist for this retake. It won't be much--but be sure you have the bank cleared, old man--because
it would ruin the following scenes to have extra people registered in this; see? You did such
dandy work in that struggle that I want it to stand. Boy, your work's sure going to stand out
on the screen!" 

The speed of signalling attained was 282 words in fifty-two seconds, a marvellous advance on
the Morse electro-magnetic instrument, which only gave about forty words a minute. In the hands of
Edison the neglected method of Bain was seen by Sir William Thomson
in the Centennial Exhibition, Philadelphia, recording at the rate
of 1057 words in fifty-seven seconds.

In England the telegraph of Bain was used on the lines of the old Electric Telegraph Company
to a limited extent, and in America about the year 1850 it was taken up by the energetic Mr.
Henry O'Reilly, and widely introduced. But it incurred the hostility of Morse, who obtained
an injunction against it on the slender ground that the running paper and alphabet used were
covered by his patent. By 1859, as Mr. Shaffner tells us, there was only one line in America
on which the Bain system was in use, namely, that from Boston to Montreal. Since those days
of rivalry the apparatus has never become general, and it is not easy to understand why, considering
its very high speed, the chemical telegraph has not become a greater
favourite.

In 1847 Bain devised an automatic method of playing on wind instruments
by moving a band of perforated paper which controlled the supply of
air to the pipes; and likewise proposed to play a number of keyed
instruments at a distance by means of the electric current.

Both of these plans are still in operation.

These and other inventions in the space of six years are a striking testimony to the fertility of
Bain's imagination at this period. But after this extraordinary outburst he seems to have relapsed
into sloth and the dissipation of his powers. We have been told, and indeed it is plain that
he received a considerable sum for one or other of his inventions, probably the chemical telegraph.
But while he could rise from the ranks, and brave adversity by dint of ingenuity and labour,
it would seem that his sanguine temperament was ill-fitted for prosperity.

He went to America, and what with litigation, unfortunate investment, and perhaps extravagance,
the fortune he had made was rapidly diminished.

Whether his inventive genius was exhausted, or he became disheartened, it would be difficult
to say, but he never flourished again. The rise in his condition may be inferred from the preamble
to his patent for electric telegraphs and clocks, dated May 29, 1852, wherein he describes himself
as'Gentleman,'and living at Beevor Lodge, Hammersmith.

After an ephemeral appearance in this character he sank once more into poverty, if not even
wretchedness. Moved by his unhappy circumstances, Sir William Thomson, the late Sir William
Siemens, Mr. Latimer Clark and others, obtained from Mr. Gladstone, in the early part of 1873,
a pension for him under the Civil List of L80 a year; but the beneficiary
lived in such obscurity that it was a considerable time before his
lodging could be discovered, and his better fortune take effect.

The Royal Society had previously made him a gift of L150.

In his latter years, while he resided in Glasgow, his health failed, and he was struck with
paralysis in the legs. The massive forehead once pregnant with the fire of genius, grew dull
and slow of thought, while the sturdy frame of iron hardihood became a tottering wreck. He
was removed to the Home for Incurables at Broomhill, Kirkintilloch, where he died on January
2, 1877, and was interred in the Old Aisle Cemetery. He was a widower, and had two children,
but they were said to be abroad at the time, the son in America and
the daughter on the Continent.

Several
of Bain's earlier patents are taken out in two names, but this was perhaps owing to his poverty
compelling him to take a partner. If these and other inventions were substantially his own,
and we have no reason to suppose that he received more help from others than is usual with inventors,
we must allow that Bain was a mechanical genius of the first order-- a born inventor. Considering
the early date of his achievements, and his lack of education or
pecuniary resource, we cannot but wonder at the strength, fecundity,
and prescience of his creative faculty.

It has been said that he came before his time; but had he been more fortunate in other respects,
there is little doubt that he would have worked out and introduced
all or nearly all his inventions, and probably some others.

His misfortunes and sorrows are so typical of the'disappointed inventor'that
we would fain learn more about his life; but beyond a few facts in a
little pamphlet (published by himself, we believe), there is little
to be gathered; a veil of silence has fallen alike upon his triumphs,
his errors and his miseries.

V. DR. WERNER SIEMENS.

THE leading electrician of Germany is Dr. Ernst Werner Siemens, eldest brother of the same distinguished
family of which our own Sir William Siemens was a member.

Ernst, like his brother William, was born at Lenthe, near Hanover, on December 13, 1816. He
was educated at the College of Lubeck in Maine, and entered the Prussian Artillery service as
a volunteer.

He pursued his scientific studies at the Artillery and Engineers'School in Berlin, and in 1838
obtained an officer's commission.

Physics and chemistry were his favourite studies; and his original researches in electro-gilding
resulted in a Prussian patent in 1841. The following year he, in conjunction with his brother
William, took out another patent for a differential regulator.

In 1844 he was appointed to a post in the artillery workshops in Berlin, where he learned telegraphy,
and in 1845 patented a dial and printing telegraph, which is still
in use in Germany.

In 1846, he was made a member of a commission organised in Berlin to introduce electric telegraphs
in place of the optical ones hitherto employed in Prussia, and he succeeded in getting the commission
to adopt underground telegraph lines. For the insulation of the wires he recommended gutta-percha,
which was then becoming known as an insulator. In the following year he constructed a machine
for covering copper wire with the melted gum by means of pressure; and this machine is substantially
the same as that now used for the purpose in cable factories.

In 1848, when the war broke out with Denmark, he was sent to Kiel
where, together with his brother-in-law, Professor C. Himly, he laid
the first submarine mines, fired by electricity and thus protected
the town of Kiel from the advance of the enemies'fleet.

Of late years the German Government has laid a great network of underground lines between the various towns
and fortresses of the empire; preferring them to overhead lines as being less liable to interruption
from mischief, accident, hostile soldiers, or stress of weather. The first of such lines was,
however, laid as long ago as 1848, by Werner Siemens, who, in the autumn of that year, deposited
a subterranean cable between Berlin and Frankfort-on-the-Main.

Next year a second cable was laid from the Capital to Cologne, Aix-la-Chapelle,
and Verviers.

In
1847 the subject of our memoir had, along with Mr. Halske, founded a telegraph factory, and
he now left the army to give himself up to scientific work and the development of his business.
This factory prospered well, and is still the chief continental works
of the kind.

The new departure made by Werner Siemens was fortunate for electrical science; and from then
till now a number of remarkable inventions have proceeded from his
laboratory.

The following are the more notable advances made:-- In October 1845, a machine for the measurement
of small intervals of time, and the speed of electricity by means
of electric sparks, and its application in 1875 for measuring the
speed of the electric current in overland lines.

In January 1850, a paper on telegraph lines and apparatus, in which the theory of the electro-static
charge in insulated wires, as well as methods and formula: for the localising of faults in underground
wires were first established. In 1851, the firm erected the first automatic fire telegraphs in Berlin,
and in the same year, Werner Siemens wrote a treatise on the experience gained with the underground
lines of the Prussian telegraph system. The difficulty of communicating through long underground
lines led him to the invention of automatic translation, which was afterwards improved upon
by Steinheil, and, in 1852, he furnished the Warsaw-Petersburg line
with automatic fast-speed writers.

The messages were punched in a paper band by means of the well-known
Siemens'lever punching apparatus, and then automatically transmitted
in a clockwork instrument.

In 1854 the discovery (contemporaneous with that of Frischen) of simultaneous transmission of
messages in opposite directions, and multiplex transmission of messages by means of electro-magnetic
apparatus.

The'duplex'system which is now employed both on land lines and submarine cables had been suggested
however, before this by Dr. Zetsche, Gintl, and others.

In 1856 he invented the Siemens'magneto-electric dial instrument giving alternate currents. From
this apparatus originated the well-known Siemens'armature, and from the receiver was developed
the Siemens'polarised relay, with which the working of submarine and other lines could be effected
with alternate currents; and in the same year, during the laying of the Cagliari to Bona cable,
he constructed and first applied the dynamometer, which has become of such importance in the
operations of cable laying.

In 1857, he investigated the electro-static induction and retardation of currents in insulated
wires, a phenomenon which he had observed in 1850, and communicated an account of it to the
French Academy of Sciences.'In these researches he developed mathematically
Faraday's theory of molecular induction, and thereby paved the way
in great measure for its general acceptance.'His ozone apparatus,
his telegraph instrument working with alternate currents, and his
instrument for translating on and automatically discharging submarine
cables also belong to the year 1857.

The latter instruments were applied to the Sardinia, Malta, and Corfu cable. In 1859, he constructed
an electric log; he discovered that a dielectric is heated by induction; he introduced the well
known Siemens'mercury unit, and many improvements in the manufacture of resistance coils. He also investigated
the law of change of resistance in wires by heating; and published
several formulae and methods for testing resistances and determining'faults'by
measuring resistances.

These methods were adopted by the electricians of the Government
service in Prussia, and by Messrs. Siemens Brothers in London, during
the manufacture of the Malta to Alexandria cable, which, was, we believe,
the first long cable subjected to a system of continuous tests.'In
1861, he showed that the electrical resistance of molten alloys is
equal to the sum of the resistances of the separate metals, and that
latent heat increases the specific resistance of metals in a greater
degree than free heat.'In 1864 he made researches on the heating of
the sides of a Leyden jar by the electrical discharge.

In 1866 he published the general theory of dynamo-electric machines, and the principle of accumulating
the magnetic effect, a principle which, however, had been contemporaneously discovered by Mr.
S. A. Varley, and described in a patent some years before by Mr. Soren Hjorth, a Danish inventor.
Hjorth's patent is to be found in the British Patent Office Library,
and until lately it was thought that he was the first and true inventor
of the'dynamo'proper, but we understand there is a prior inventor
still, though we have not seen the evidence in support of the statement.

The reversibility of the dynamo was enunciated by Werner Siemens in 1867; but it was not experimentally
demonstrated on any practical scale until 1870, when M. Hippolite Fontaine succeeded in pumping
water at the Vienna international exhibition by the aid of two dynamos
connected in circuit; one, the generator, deriving motion from a hydraulic
engine, and in turn setting in motion the receiving dynamo which worked
the pump.

Professor Clerk Maxwell thought this discovery the greatest of the century; and the remark
has been repeated more than once. But it is a remark which derives its chief importance from the
man who made it, and its credentials from the paradoxical surprise it causes. The discovery in
question is certainly fraught with very great consequences to the mechanical world; but in
itself it is no discovery of importance, and naturally follows from Faraday's far greater and more
original discovery of magneto-electric generation. In 1874, Dr. Siemens published a treatise
on the laying and testing of submarine cables.

In 1875, 1876 and 1877, he investigated the action of light on crystalline selenium, and in
1878 he studied the action of the telephone. The recent work of Dr. Siemens has been to improve
the pneumatic railway, railway signalling, electric lamps, dynamos,
electro-plating and electric railways.

The
electric railway at Berlin in 1880, and Paris in 1881, was the beginning of electric locomotion, a
subject of great importance and destined in all probability, to very
wide extension in the immediate future. Dr. Siemens has received many honours
from learned societies at home and abroad; and a title equivalent to
knighthood from the German Government. VI. LATIMER CLARK. MR. Clark was
born at Great Marlow in 1822, and probably acquired his scientific
bent while engaged at a manufacturing chemist's business in Dublin.

On the outbreak of the railway mania in 1845 he took to surveying, and through his brother, Mr.
Edwin Clark, became assistant engineer to the late Robert Stephenson on the Britannia Bridge. While
thus employed, he made the acquaintance of Mr. Ricardo, founder of the Electric Telegraph Company,
and joined that Company as an engineer in 1850. He rose to be chief engineer in 1854, and held
the post till 1861, when he entered into a partnership with Mr. Charles T. Bright. Prior to this,
he had made several original researches; in 1853, he found that the
retardation of current on insulated wires was independent of the strength
of current, and his experiments formed the subject of a Friday evening
lecture by Faraday at the Royal Institution-- a sufficient mark of
their importance.

In 1854 he introduced the pneumatic dispatch into London, and, in 1856, he patented his well-known
double-cup insulator. In 1858, he and Mr. Bright produced the material known as'Clark's Compound,'which
is so valuable for protecting submarine cables from rusting in the
sea-water.

In 1859, Mr. Clark was appointed engineer to the Atlantic Telegraph Company
which tried to lay an Anglo-American cable in 1865. in partnership with Sir
C. T. Bright, who had taken part in the first Atlantic cable expedition,
Mr. Clark laid a cable for the Indian Government in the Red Sea, in
order to establish a telegraph to India.

In 1886, the partnership ceased; but, in 1869, Mr Clark went out to the Persian Gulf to lay a second
cable there. Here he was nearly lost in the shipwreck of the Carnatic on the Island of Shadwan in the
Red Sea.

Subsequently Mr. Clark became the head of a firm of consulting electricians, well known under the title
of Clark, Forde and Company, and latterly including the late Mr.
C. Hockin and Mr. Herbert Taylor.

The Mediterranean cable to India, the East Indian Archipelago cable
to Australia, the Brazilian Atlantic cables were all laid under the
supervision of this firm.

Mr. Clark is now in partnership with Mr. Stanfield, and is the joint-inventor
of Clark and Stanfield's circular floating dock. He is also head of the
well-known firm of electrical manufacturers, Messrs. Latimer Clark,
Muirhead and Co., of Regency Street, Westminster.

The foregoing sketch is but an imperfect outline of a very successful
life.` But enough has been given to show that we have here an engineer
of various and even brilliant gifts.

Mr. Clark has applied himself in divers directions, and never applied himself in vain. There is
always some practical result to show which will be useful to others. In technical literature he
published a description of the Conway and Britannia Tubular Bridges as long ago as 1849. There is
a valuable communication of his in the Board of Trade Blue Rook on
Submarine Cables. In 1868, he issued a useful work on ELECTRICAL MEASUREMENTS,
and in 1871 joined with Mr. Robert Sabine in producing the well-known
ELECTRICAL TABLES AND FORMULAE, a work which was for a long time the
electrician's VADE-MECUM.

In 1873, he communicated a lengthy paper on the NEW STANDARD OF ELECTROMOTIVE POWER now known as CLARK'S STANDARD
CELL; and quite recently he published a treatise on the USE OF THE TRANSIT INSTRUMENT. Mr. Clark
is a Fellow of the Royal Society of London, as well as a member of
the Institution of Civil Engineers, the Royal Astronomical Society,
the Physical Society, etc., and was elected fourth President of the
Society of Telegraph Engineers and of Electricians, now the Institution
of Electrical Engineers.

He is a great lover of books and gardening-- two antithetical hobbies-- which are charming in
themselves, and healthily counteractive. The rich and splendid library of electrical works which
he is forming, has been munificently presented to the Institution of
Electrical Engineers. VII. COUNT DU MONCEL. Theodose-Achille-Louis,
Comte du Moncel, was born at Paris on March 6, 1821.

His father was a peer of France, one of the old nobility, and a
General of Engineers.

He possessed a model farm near Cherbourg, and had set his heart on training his son to carry
on this pet project; but young Du Moncel, under the combined influence
of a desire for travel, a love of archaeology, and a rare talent for
drawing, went off to Greece, and filled his portfolio with views of
the Parthenon and many other pictures of that classic region.

His father avenged himself by declining to send him any money; but the artist
sold his sketches and relied solely on his pencil. On returning to Paris
he supported himself by his art, but at the same time gratified his
taste for science in a discursive manner.

A beautiful and accomplished lady of the Court, Mademoiselle Camille Clementine Adelaide Bachasson
de Montalivet, belonging to a noble and distinguished family, had plighted her troth with him, and,
as we have been told, descended one day from her carriage, and wedded the man of her heart, in
the humble room of a flat not far from the Grand Opera House. They were a devoted pair, and Madame
du Moncel played the double part of a faithful help-meet, and inspiring
genius.

Heart and soul she encouraged her husband to distinguish himself by his
talents and energy, and even assisted him in his labours.

About 1852 he began to occupy himself almost exclusively with electrical science. His most conspicuous
discovery is that pressure diminishes the resistance of contact between two conductors, a fact
which Clerac in 1866 utilised in the construction of a variable resistance from carbon, such
as plumbage, by compressing it with an adjustable screw. It is also the foundation of the
carbon transmitter of Edison, and the more delicate microphone of Professor Hughes. But Du Moncel
is best known as an author and journalist.

His'Expose des applications de l'electricite'published in 1856 ET SEQ., and his'Traite pratique
de Telegraphie,'not to mention his later books on recent marvels, such as the telephone, microphone,
phonograph, and electric light, are standard works of reference. In the compilation of these his
admirable wife assisted him as a literary amanuensis, for she had acquired a considerable
knowledge of electricity.

In 1866 he was created an officer of the Legion of Honour, and he became a member of numerous
learned societies. For some time he was an adviser of the French
telegraph administration, but resigned the post in 1873. The following
year he was elected a Member of the Academy of Sciences, Paris. In 1879, he
became editor of a new electrical journal established at Paris under
the title of'La Lumiere Electrique,'and held the position until his
death, which happened at Paris after a few days'illness on February
16, 1884.

His devoted wife was recovering from a long illness which had caused her affectionate husband much anxiety,
and probably affected his health. She did not long survive him, but died on February 4, 1887, at Mentone
in her fifty-fifth year.

Count du Moncel was an indefatigable worker, who, instead of abandoning
himself to idleness and pleasure like many of his order, believed
it his duty to be active and useful in his own day, as his ancestors
had been in the past.

VIII. ELISHA GRAY. THIS distinguished American electrician was born at Barnesville in Belmont county,
Ohio, on August 2, 1835. His family were Quakers, and in early life he was apprenticed to a carpenter,
but showed a taste for chemistry, and at the age of twenty-one he went to Oberlin College, where
he studied for five years. At the age of thirty he turned his attention to electricity, and invented
a relay which adapted itself to the varying insulation of the telegraph
line. There would be no more
riding up to camera, laughing or sighing or frowning as Wagalexa Conka commanded her to do.
There would be no more shy greetings of the slim young woman in riding skirt--the friendship
scenes and the black-browed anger, while Pete Lowry turned the camera and Luck stood beside
him telling her just what she must do, and smiling at her when she did it well.

There would be Ramon, and the priest and the wide ring of shiny gold--what more? The mountains,
all pink and violet and smiling green and soft gray--the mountains hid the new life from her.
And she must ride around that last, sharp-pointed one, and come into the new life that was
on the other side--and what if it should be bitter? What if Ramon's love did not live beyond
the wide ring of shiny gold? She had seen it so, with other men and other maids.

No matter. She had sworn the oath that she would go. But first, there at the old well where
Ramon had taught her the Spanish love words, there where she had listened shyly and happily
to his voice that was so soft and so steeped in love, Annie-Many-Ponies stood up with her face
to the mountains and sorrow in her eyes, and chanted again the wailing, Omaha mourning-song.
And just behind her the little black dog, that had followed close to her heels all the way,
sat upon his haunches and pointed his nose to the sky and howled.

For a long time she wailed. Then to the mountains that she loved she made the sign of peace-and-farewell,
and turned herself stoically to the keeping of her oath. Her bundle that was so big and heavy
she placed in the saddle and fastened with the saddle-string and with the red sash that had
bound it across her chest and shoulders. Then, as her great grandmother had plodded across
the bleak plains of the Dakotas at her master's behest, Annie-Many-Ponies took the bridle reins
and led the horse out of the ruin, and started upon her plodding, patient journey to what lay
beyond the mountains. Behind her the black horse walked with drooping head, half asleep in
the warm sunlight. At the heels of the horse followed the little black dog.

CHAPTER IX. RIDERS IN THE BACKGROUND

Luck, as explained elsewhere, was sweating and swearing at the heat in Bear Canon. The sun
had crept around so that it shone full into a certain bowlder-strewn defile, and up this sunbaked
gash old Applehead was toiling, leading the scrawniest burro which Luck had been able to find
in the country. The burro was packed with a prospector's outfit startlingly real in its pathetic
meagerness. Old Applehead was picking his way among rocks so hot that he could hardly bear
to lay his bare hand upon them, tough as that hand was with years of exposure to heat and cold
alike. Beads of perspiration were standing on his face, which was a deep, apoplectic crimson,
and little trickles of sweat were dropping off his lower jaw.

He was muttering as he climbed, but the camera fortunately failed to record the language that
he used. Now and then he turned and yanked savagely at the lead rope; whereupon the burro would
sit down upon its haunches and allow Applehead to stretch its neck as far as bone and tough
hide and tougher sinew would permit Someone among the group roosting in the shade across the
defile and well out of camera range would laugh, and Luck, standing on a ledge just behind
and above the camera, would shout directions or criticism of the "business." 

A telegraph operator, in their eyes, has no business to invent. His place is to sit at his instrument
and send or receive the messages as fast as he can, without troubling his mind with inventions
or anything else.

When his shift is over he can amuse himself as he likes, provided he is always fit for work.
Genius is not wanted.

The clerks themselves, reckless of a culture which is not required,
and having a good string to their bow in the matter of livelihood,
namely, the mechanical art of signalling, are prone to lead a careless,
gay, and superficial life, roving from town to town throughout: the
length and breadth of the States.

But for his genius and aspirations, Edison might have yielded to the seductions of this happy-go-lucky,
free, and frivolous existence.

Dissolute comrades at Memphis won upon his good nature; but though he lent them money, he remained
abstemious, working hard, and spending his leisure upon books and experiments. To them he appeared
an extraordinary fellow; and so far from sympathising with his inventions, they dubbed him'Luny,'and
regarded him as daft.

What with the money he had lent, or spent on books or apparatus, when the Memphis lines were transferred
from the Government to a private company and Edison was discharged, he found himself without a
dollar.

Transported to Decatur, he walked to Nashville, where he found another operator, William Foley, in
the like straits, and they went in company to Louisville.

Foley's reputation as an operator was none of the best; but on his recommendation Edison obtained
a situation, and supported Foley until he too got employment.

The squalid office was infested with rats, and its discipline was lax, in all save speed and
quality of work, and some of his companions were of a dissipated stamp. To add to his discomforts,
the line he worked was old and defective; but he improved the signals
by adjusting three sets of instruments, and utilising them for three
different states of the line.

During nearly two years of drudgery under these depressing circumstances, Edison's prospects of
becoming an inventor seemed further off than ever. Perhaps he began to fear that stern necessity
would grind him down, and keep him struggling for a livelihood. None of his improvements had brought
him any advantage. His efforts to invent had been ridiculed and discountenanced. Nobody had
recognised his talent, at least as a thing of value and worthy of encouragement, let alone support.
All his promotion had come from trying to excel in his routine work. Perhaps he lost faith in
himself, or it may be that the glowing accounts he received of South
America induced him to seek his fortune there.

At all events he caught the'craze'for emigration that swept the Southern States on the conclusion of
the Civil War, and resolved to emigrate with two companions, Keen
and Warren.

But on their arriving at New Orleans the vessel had sailed.

In this predicament Edison fell in with a travelled Spaniard, who depicted the inferiority
of other countries, and especially of South America, in such vivid colours, that he changed
his intention and returned home to Michigan. After a pleasant holiday with his friends he
resumed his occupation in the Louisville office.

Contact with home seems to have charged him with fresh courage. He wrote a work on electricity,
which for lack of means was never published, and improved his penmanship
until he could write a fair round backhand at the rate of forty-five
words a minute-- that is to say, the utmost that an operator can send
by the Morse code.

The style was chosen for its clearness, each letter being distinctly formed, with little or no
shading.

His comrades were no better than before.

On returning from his work in the small hours, Edison would sometimes find two or three of
them asleep in his bed with their boots on, and have to shift them to the floor in order that
he might'turn in.'A new office was opened, but strict orders were
issued that nobody was to interfere with the instruments and their
connections.

He could not resist the infringement of this rule, however, and continued his experiments. In drawing some
vitriol one night, he upset the carboy, and the acid eating its way through the floor, played havoc
with the furniture of a luxurious bank in the flat below.

He was discharged for this, but soon obtained another engagement as a press operator in Cincinnati.
He spent his leisure in the Mechanics'Library, studying works on
electricity and general science.

He also developed his ideas on the duplex system; and if they were not carried out, they at least directed
him to the quadruplex system with which his name was afterwards associated. These attempts to improve
his time seem to have made him unpopular, for after a short term in Cincinnati, he returned
to Port Huron. A friend, Mr. F. Adams, operator in the Boston office
of the Western Union Telegraph Company, recommended Edison to his
manager, Mr. G. F. Milliken, as a good man to work the New York wire,
and the berth was offered to Edison by telegraph.

He accepted, and left at once for Boston by the Grand Trunk Railway, but the train was snowed
up for two days near the bluffs of the St. Lawrence. The consequence might have been serious had provisions
not been found by a party of foragers. Mr. Milliken was the first of Edison's masters, and perhaps
his fellows, who appreciated him. Mediocrity had only seen the gawky stripling, with his moonstruck
air, and pestilent habit of trying some new crotchet. Himself an inventor, Milliken recognised in
his deep-set eye and musing brow the fire of a suppressed genius. He was then just twenty-one.
The friendship of Mr. Milliken, and the opportunity for experiment,
rendered the Boston office a congenial one.

His by-hours were spent in a little workshop he had opened. Among his inventions at this period were a dial
telegraph, and a'printer'for use on private lines, and an electro-chemical vote recorder,
which the Legislature of Massachusetts declined to adopt. With the assistance of Mr. F. L.
Pope, patent adviser to the Western Union Telegraph Company, his duplex system was tried, with encouraging
results. The ready ingenuity of Edison is shown by his device for
killing the cockroaches which overran the Boston office.

He arranged some strips of tinfoil on the wall, and connected these
to the poles of a battery in such a way that when the insects ran
towards the bait which he had provided, they stepped from one foil
to the other, and completed the circuit of the current, thus receiving
a smart shock, which dislodged them into a pail of water, standing
below.

In 1870, after two years in Boston, where he had spent all his earnings, chiefly on his books and workshop,
he found himself in New York, tramping the streets on the outlook for a job, and all but destitute.
After repeated failures he chanced to enter the office of the Laws Gold
Reporting Telegraph Company while the instrument which Mr. Laws had invented
to report the fluctuations of the money market had broken down.

No one could set it right; there was a fever in the market, and Mr. Laws, we are told, was in despair.
Edison volunteered to set it right, and though his appearance was
unpromising, he was allowed to try.

The insight of the born mechanic, the sleight of hand which marks the
true experimenter, have in them something magical to the ignorant.
In Edison's hands the instrument seemed to rectify itself. This was
his golden opportunity. He was engaged by the company, and henceforth
his career as an inventor was secure. The Gold Indicator Company afterwards
gave him a responsible position.

He improved their indicator, and invented the Gold and Stock Quotation Printer, an apparatus
for a similar purpose. He entered into partnership with Mr. Pope and Mr. Ashley, and introduced
the Pope and Edison Printer. A private line which he established was taken over by the Gold
and Stock Telegraph Company, and soon their system was worked almost exclusively with Edison's
invention. He was retained in their service, and that of the Western Union Telegraph Company,
as a salaried inventor, they having the option of buying all his
telegraphic inventions at a price to be agreed upon.

At their expense a large electrical factory was established under his direction at Newark, New Jersey,
where he was free to work out his ideas and manufacture his apparatus.

Now that he was emancipated from drudgery, and fairly started on the walk which Nature had intended
for him, he rejoiced in the prolific freedom of his mind, which literally
teemed with projects.

His brain was no longer a prey to itself from the'local action,'or waste energy of restrained
ideas and revolving thoughts. [The term'local action'is applied by electricians to the waste
which goes on in a voltaic battery, although its current is not flowing
in the outer circuit and doing useful work.] If anything, he attempted
too much.

Patents were taken out by the score, and at one time there were no less
than forty-five distinct inventions in progress.

The Commissioner of Patents described him as'the young man who kept the
path to the Patent Office hot with his footsteps.'His capacity for
labouring without rest is very remarkable.

On one occasion, after improving his Gold and Stock Quotation Printer, an order for the new
instruments, to the extent of 30,000 dollars, arrived at the factory.
The model had acted well, but the first instruments made after it
proved a failure.

Edison thereupon retired to the upper floor of the factory with some of his best workmen, and intimated
that they must all remain there until the defect was put right. After sixty hours of continuous toil,
the fault was remedied, and Edison went to bed, where he slept for
thirty-six hours.

Mr. Johnson, one of his assistants, informs us that for ten years he worked on an average eighteen
hours a day, and that he has been known to continue an experiment for three months day and
night, with the exception of a nap from six o'clock to nine of the
morning. In the throes of invention, and under the inspiration of his
ideas, he is apt to make no distinction between day and night, until
he arrives at a result which he considers to be satisfactory one way
or the other.

His meals are brought to him in the laboratory, and hastily eaten, although his dwelling is quite
near.

Long watchfulness and labour seem to heighten the activity of his mind, which under its'second
wind,'so to speak, becomes preternaturally keen and suggestive. He likes best to work at night
in the silence and solitude of his laboratory when the noise of the benches or the rumble of the
engines is stilled, and all the world about him is asleep.

Fortunately, he can work without stimulants, and, when the strain is over, rest without narcotics;
otherwise his exhausted constitution, sound as it is, would probably
break down.

Still, he appears to be ageing before his time, and some of his assistants, not so well endowed
with vitality, have, we believe, overtaxed their strength in trying to keep up with him. At this
period he devised his electric pen, an ingenious device for making
copies of a document.

It consists essentially of a needle, rapidly jogged up and down by means of an electro-magnet
actuated by an intermittent current of electricity. The writing is traced with the needle, which
perforates another sheet of paper underneath, thus forming a stencil-plate,
which when placed on a clean paper, and evenly inked with a rolling
brush, reproduces the original writing.

In 1873 Edison was married to Miss Mary Stillwell, of Newark, one of his employees. His eldest child,
Mary Estelle, was playfully surnamed'Dot,'and his second, Thomas
Alva, jun.,'Dash,'after the signals of the Morse code. Mrs. Edison died
several years ago.

While seeking to improve the method of duplex working introduced by Mr. Steams, Edison invented the
quadruplex, by which four messages are simultaneously sent through one wire, two from each
end. Brought out in association with Mr. Prescott, it was adopted by the Western Union Telegraph
Company, and, later, by the British Post Office. The President of the Western Union reported that it
had saved the Company 500,000 dollars a year in the construction of
new lines.

Edison also improved the Bain chemical telegraph, until it attained an incredible speed. Bain
had left it capable of recording 200 words a minute; but Edison,
by dint of searching a pile of books ordered from New York, Paris,
and London, making copious notes, and trying innumerable experiments,
while eating at his desk and sleeping in his chair, ultimately prepared
a solution which enabled it to register over 1000 words a minute.

It was exhibited
at the Philadelphia Centenial Exhibition in 1876, where it astonished Sir William Thomson. In 1876,
Edison sold his factory at Newark, and retired to Menlo Park, a sequestered spot near Metuchin,
on the Pennsylvania Railroad, and about twenty-four miles from New
York. Here on some rising ground he built a wooden tenement, two
stories high, and furnished it as a workshop and laboratory.

His own residence and the cottages of his servants completed the little colony. The basement of
the main building was occupied by his office, a choice library, a cabinet replete with instruments
of precision, and a large airy workshop, provided with lathes and
steam power, where his workmen shaped his ideas into wood and metal.

The books lying about, the designs and placards on the walls, the draught-board on the table, gave
it the appearance of a mechanics'club-room. The free and lightsome
behaviour of the men, the humming at the benches, recalled some school
of handicraft.

There were no rigid hours, no grinding toil under the jealous eye of the overseer. The spirit of competition
and commercial rivalry was absent. It was not a question of wringing as much work as possible
out of the men in the shortest time and at the lowest price.

Moreover, they were not mere mechanical drudges-- they were interested
in their jobs, which demanded thought as well as skill. Upstairs was
the laboratory proper-- a long room containing an array of chemicals;
for Edison likes to have a sample of every kind, in case it might
suddenly be requisite.

On the tables and in the cupboards were lying all manner of telegraphic apparatus, lenses,
crucibles, and pieces of his own inventions. A perfect tangle of telegraph wires coming from all
parts of the Union were focussed at one end of the room. An ash-covered forge, a cabinet organ,
a rusty stove with an old pivot chair, a bench well stained with oils
and acids, completed the equipment of this curious den, into which
the sunlight filtered through the chemical jars and fell in coloured
patches along the dusty floor.

The moving spirit of this haunt by day and night is well described as an overgrown school-boy.
He is a man of a slim, but wiry figure, about five feet ten inches in
height. His face at this period was juvenile and beardless. The nose
and chin were shapely and prominent, the mouth firm, the forehead wide
and full above, but not very high.

It was shaded by dark chestnut hair, just silvered with grey. His most remarkable features were his
eyes, which are blue-grey and deeply set, with an intense and piercing
expression.

When his attention was not aroused, he seemed to retire into himself, as though his mind had drifted
far away, and came back slowly to the present. He was pale with nightwork, and his thoughtful
eyes had an old look in serious moments. But his smile was boyish and pleasant, and his manner
a trifle shy. There was nothing of the dandy about Edison, He boasted
no jewelled fingers or superfine raiment.

An easy coat soiled with chemicals, a battered wide-awake, and boots guiltless of polish, were good
enough for this inspired workman. An old silver watch, sophisticated with magnetism, and keeping
an eccentric time peculiar to it, was his only ornament.

On social occasions, of course, he adopted a more conventional costume.
Visitors to the laboratory often found him in his shirt-sleeves, with
dishevelled hair and grimy hands.

The writer of'A Night with Edison'has described him as bending like a wizard over the smoky fumes
of some lurid lamps arranged on a brick furnace, as if he were summoning
the powers of darkness.'It is much after midnight now,'says this author.'The
machinery below has ceased to rumble, and the tired hands have gone
to their homes.

A hasty lunch has been sent up. We are at the thermoscope. Suddenly
a telegraph instrument begins to click.

The inventor strikes a grotesque attitude, a herring in one hand and a biscuit in the other, and
with a voice a little muffled with a mouthful of both, translates aloud, slowly, the sound intelligible
to him alone: "London.-- News of death of Lord John Russell premature." "John Blanchard, whose failure
was announced yesterday, has suicided (no, that was a bad one) SUCCEEDED!
in adjusting his affairs, and will continue in business."'His tastes
are simple and his habits are plain.

On one occasion, when invited to a dinner at Delmonico's restaurant, he contented himself with a slice
of pie and a cup of tea. Another time he is said to have declined a public dinner with the remark
that 100,000 dollars would not tempt him to sit through two hours of'personal glorification.'He
dislikes notoriety, thinking that a man is to be'measured by what he does, not by what is said
about him.'But he likes to talk about his inventions and show them
to visitors at Menlo Park.

In disposition he is sociable, affectionate, and generous, giving himself no airs, and treating all
alike. His humour is native, and peculiar to himself, so there is some excuse for the newspaper reporters
who take his jokes about the capabilities of Nature AU SERIEUX; and
publish them for gospel.

His assistants are selected for their skill and physical endurance.
The chief at Menlo Park was Mr. Charles Batchelor, a Scotchman, who
had a certain interest in the inventions, but the others, including
mathematicians, chemists, electricians, secretary, bookkeeper, and
mechanics, were paid a salary.

They were devoted to Edison, who, though he worked them hard at times, was an indulgent master,
and sometimes joined them in a general holiday. All of them spoke in the highest terms of the inventor
and the man. The Menlo establishment was unique in the world. It was founded for the sole purpose
of applying the properties of matter to the production of new inventions.

For love of science or the hope of gain, men had experimented before, and worked out their inventions
in the laboratories of colleges and manufactories. But Edison seems to have been the first to
organise a staff of trained assistants to hunt up useful facts in books, old and modern, and discover
fresh ones by experiment, in order to develop his ideas or suggest
new ones, together with skilled workmen to embody them in the fittest
manner; and all with the avowed object of taking out patents, and
introducing the novel apparatus as a commercial speculation.

He did not manufacture his machines for sale; he simply created the
models, and left their multiplication to other people.

From it has emanated a series of marvellous inventions which have carried the name of Edison throughout
the whole civilised world. Expense was disregarded in making the laboratory as efficient as possible;
the very best equipment was provided, the ablest assistants employed, and the profit has been
immense. Edison is a millionaire; the royalties from his patents alone are said to equal the salary
of a Prime Minister. Although Edison was the master spirit of the
band, it must not be forgotten that his assistants were sometimes co-inventors
with himself.

No doubt he often supplied the germinal ideas, while his assistants only carried them out. But
occasionally the suggestion was nothing more than this:'I want something that will do so-and-so.
I believe it will be a good thing, and can be done.'The assistant
was on his mettle, and either failed or triumphed.

The results of the experiments and researches were all chronicled
in a book, for the new facts, if not then required, might become serviceable
at a future time.

If a rare material was wanted, it was procured at any cost. With such facilities, an invention is
rapidly matured. Sometimes the idea was conceived in the morning, and a working model was constructed
by the evening. One day, we are told, a discovery was made at 4 P. M., and Edison telegraphed
it to his patent agent, who immediately drew up the specification, and at nine o'clock next morning
cabled it to London. Before the inventor was out of bed, he received an
intimation that his patent had been already deposited in the British
Patent Office.

Of course, the difference of time was in his favour. When Edison arrived at the laboratory in the morning,
he read his letters, and then overlooked his employees, witnessing
their results and offering his suggestions; but it often happened
that he became totally engrossed with one experiment or invention.

His work was frequently interrupted by curious visitors, who wished to see the laboratory and
the man. Although he had chosen that out-of-the-way place to avoid disturbance, they were never denied:
and he often took a pleasure in showing his models, or explaining the work on which he was engaged.
There was no affectation of mystery, no attempt at keeping his experiments a secret. Even the
laboratory notes were open to inspection. Menlo Park became a kind of Mecca to the scientific
pilgrim; the newspapers and magazines despatched reporters to the
scene; excursion parties came by rail, and country farmers in their
buggies; till at last an enterprising Yankee even opened a refreshment
room.

The first of Edison's greater inventions in Menlo Park was the'loud-speaking telephone.'Professor
Graham Bell had introduced his magneto-electric telephone, but its effect was feeble. It is, we believe,
a maxim in biology that a similarity between the extremities of
a creature is an infallible sign of its inferiority, and that in
proportion as it rises in the scale of being, its head is found to
differ from its tail.

Now, in the Bell apparatus, the transmitter and the receiver were alike, and hence Clerk Maxwell
hinted that it would never be good for much until they became differentiated from each other. Consciously
or unconsciously Edison accomplished the feat. With the hardihood of genius, he attempted to
devise a telephone which would speak out loud enough to be heard
in any corner of a large hall. In the telephone of Bell, the voice
of the speaker is the motive power which generates the current in
the line.

The vibrations of the sound may be said to transform themselves into
electrical undulations.

Hence the current is very weak, and the reproduction of the voice is relatively faint. Edison adopted
the principle of making the vibrations of the voice control the intensity of a current which was
independently supplied to the line by a voltaic battery. The plan of Bell, in short, may be compared
to a man who employs his strength to pump a quantity of water into a pipe, and that of Edison to one
who uses his to open a sluice, through which a stream of water flows
from a capacious dam into the pipe. Edison was acquainted with two experimental
facts on which to base the invention. In 1873, or thereabout, he claimed
to have observed, while constructing rheostats, or electrical resistances
for making an artificial telegraph line, that powdered plumbago and
carbon has the property of varying in its resistance to the passage
of the current when under pressure.

The variation seemed in a manner proportional to the pressure. As a matter of fact, powdered carbon and plumbago
had been used in making small adjustable rheostats by M. Clerac, in France, and probably also in Germany, as
early as 1865 or 1866. Clerac's device consisted of a small wooden tube containing the material,
and fitted with contacts for the current, which appear to have adjusted
the pressure.

Moreover, the Count Du Moncel, as far back as 1856, had clearly discovered that when powdered
carbon was subjected to pressure, its electrical resistance altered,
and had made a number of experiments on the phenomenon.

Edison may have independently observed the fact, but it is certain he was not the first, and his claim
to priority has fallen to the ground. Still he deserves the full credit of utilising it in
ways which were highly ingenious and bold.

The'pressure-relay,'produced in 1877, was the first relay in which the strength of the local current
working the local telegraph instrument was caused to vary in proportion
to the variation; of the current in the main line.

It consisted of an electro-magnet with double poles and an armature which pressed upon a disc or
discs of plumbago, through which the local current Passed. Dogs barked, ran but to the road and barked again, ran back to
the adobe huts and kept on barking. In one field some loose horses, seeing so many of their
kind in the lane, galloped up to the fence and stood there snorting. These were still in their
colthood, however, and the saddle-horses merely flicked ears in their direction and gave them
no more heed.

"I'm glad you're sure of the country, up here on top," Luck said to Applehead when they had
climbed, by the twisting, sandy trail, to the sand dunes that lay on the edge of the mesa and
stretched vaguely away under the stars. To the rim-rook line that separated this first mesa
from the higher one beyond, Luck himself knew the sand-hills well. But beyond the broken line
of hills off to the northwest he had never gone--and there lay the territory that belongs to
the Navajos, who are a tricky tribe and do not love the white people who buy their rugs and
blankets and, so claim the Navajos, steal their cattle and their horses as well.

At the rim of lava rock they made a dry camp and lay down in what comfort they could achieve,
to doze and wait for daylight so that they could pick up the trail of the red automobile.

CHAPTER XI. ALL THIS WAR-TALK ABOUT INJUNS

Over his second cup of coffee the pale eyes of Big Medicine goggled thoughtfully at the forbidding
wall of lava rock that stretched before them as far as he could see to left or right. There
were places here and there where he believed that a man could climb to the top with the aid
of his hands as well as his feet, but for the horses he was extremely skeptical; and as for
a certain big red automobile.... His eyes swung from the brown rampart and rested grievedly
upon the impassive face of Luck, who was just then reaching forward to spear another slice
of bacon from the frying pan.

"Kinda looks to me, by cripes, as if we'd come to the end uh the trail," he observed in his
usual full-lunged bellow, as though he had all his life been accustomed to pitching his voice
above some unending clamor. "Yuh got any idee of how an autyMObile clumb that there rim-rock?"

Old Applehead, squatting on his heels across the little camp-fire, leaned and picked a coal
out of the ashes for his pipe and afterwards cocked his eyes toward Big Medicine.

"What yuh calc'late yuh tryin' to do?" he inquired pettishly. "Start up an argyment uh some
kind? Cause if ye air, lemme tell yuh I got the yer-ache from listenin' to you las' night."

Big Medicine looked at him as though he was going to spring upon him in deadly combat--but
that was only a peculiar facial trick of his. What he did do was to pour that last swallow
of hot, black coffee down his throat and then laugh his big haw-haw-haw that could be heard
half a mile off.

"Y' oughta kep Applehead to home with the wimmin folks, Luck," he bawled unabashed. "Night
air's bad fer 'im, and the trail ain't goin' to be smooth goin',--not if we gotta ride our
hawses straight up, by cripes!"

"We haven't got to." Luck balanced his slice of bacon upon the unscorched side of a bannock
and glanced indifferently at the rim of rock that was worrying the other. "I swung down here
to make camp off the trail But it's only a half mile or so over this rise that looks level
to you, to where the lava ledge peters out so we can ride over it easier than we rode up off
the river-flat in that loose sand. That ease your mind any?"

"Helps some," Big Medicine admitted, his eyes going speculatively to the rise that looked perfectly
level. "I'm willin' to take your word fer it, boss. But what's gittin' to worry me, by cripes,
is all this here war-talk about Injuns. Honest to grandma, I feel like as if I'd been readin'--"

"Aw, it's jest a josh, Bud!" Happy Jack asserted boredly. "I betche there ain't been a Injun
on the fight here sence hell was a tradin' post!"

"You think there hasn't?" Luck looked up quickly to ask. But old Applehead rose up and shook
an indignant finger at Happy Jack.

"There ain't, hey? Well, I calc'late that fer a josh, them thar Navvies has got a right keen
sense uh humor, and I've knowed men to laff theirselves to death on their danged resavation--now
I'm tellin' yuh I It was all a josh mebby, when they riz up a year or two back 'cause one uh
their tribe was goin' t' be arrested er some darn thing! Ole General Scott, he didn't call
it no joke when he, went in thar to settle 'em down, did he? I calc'late, mebby it was jest
fer a josh them troops waited on the aidge, ready to go in if he didn't git back a certain
time! 'N' that wasn't so fur back, shorely,--only two years. Why dang your fool heart, I've
laid out there in them hills myself and fit off the Navvies--'n' I didn't see nothin' much
to laugh at, now I'm tellin' yuh! Time I went there after Jose Martinez--"

"Better get under way, boys," Luck interrupted, having heard many times the details of that
fight and capture. "We'll throw out a circle and pick up the trail of that machine, or whatever
they made their getaway in. My idea is that they must have stached some horses out here somewhere.
I don't believe they'd take the risk of trying to get away in a machine; that would hold them
to the main trails, mostly. I know it wouldn't be my way of getting outa reach. I'd want horses
so I could get into rough country, and I've doped it out that Ramon is too trail-wise to bank
very high on an automobile once he got out away from town. Applehead, you and Lite and Pink
and Weary form one party if it comes to where we want to divide forces. Pack a complete camp
outfit on the sorrel and the black--you notice that's the way I had 'em packed first. Keep
their packs just as we started out, then you'll be ready to strike out by yourselves whenever
it seems best. Get me?" 

The colours of Nature were lost in the photograph, but the phonograph was said to preserve
the qualities even of the human voice. Yet this wonderful appliance had neither tongue nor
teeth, larynx nor pharynx. It appeared as simple as a coffee-mill. A vibrating diaphragm to collect
the sounds, and a stylus to impress them on a sheet of tinfoil, were its essential parts.
Looking on the record of the sound, one could see only the scoring
of the stylus on the yielding surface of the metal, like the track
of an Alpine traveller across the virgin snow.

These puzzling scratches were the foot-prints of the voice.

Speech is the most perfect utterance of man; but its powers are limited both in time and space.
The sounds of the voice are fleeting, and do not carry far; hence the invention of letters to
record them, and of signals to extend their range. These twin lines of invention, continued through
the ages, have in our own day reached their consummation.

The smoke of the savage, the semaphore, and the telegraph have ended in the telephone, by which
the actual voice can speak to a distance; and now at length the clay tablet of the Assyrian,
the wax of the ancient Greek, the papyrus of the Egyptian, and the modern printing-press have
culminated in the phonograph, by which the living words can be preserved
into the future.

In the light of a new discovery, we are apt to wonder why our fathers were so blind as not
to see it. When a new invention has been made, we ask ourselves, Why was it not thought of before?
The discovery seems obvious, and the invention simple, after we know them. Now that speech itself can
be sent a thousand miles away, or heard a thousand years after, we discern in these achievements
two goals toward which we have been making, and at which we should arrive some day. We marvel
that we had no prescience of these, and that we did not attain to them sooner. Why has it taken so
many generations to reach a foregone conclusion? Alas! they neither knew the conclusion nor
the means of attaining to it. Man works from ignorance towards greater
knowledge with very limited powers.

His little circle of light is surrounded by a wall of darkness, which he strives to penetrate
and lighten, now groping blindly on its verge, now advancing his taper light and peering forward;
yet unable to go far, and even afraid to venture, in case he should
be lost.

To the Infinite Intelligence which knows all that is hidden in that darkness, and all that
man will discover therein, how poor a thing is the telephone or phonograph, how insignificant
are all his'great discoveries'!

This thought should imbue a man of science with humility rather than with pride. Seen from another standpoint
than his own, from without the circle of his labours, not from within, in looking back, not forward,
even his most remarkable discovery is but the testimony of his own littleness. The veil of darkness
only serves to keep these little powers at work.

Men have sometimes a foreshadowing of what will come to pass without distinctly seeing it.
In mechanical affairs, the notion of a telegraph is very old, and probably immemorial. Centuries
ago the poet and philosopher entertained the idea of two persons far apart being able to correspond
through the sympathetic property of the lodestone. The string or lovers'telephone was known to the
Chinese, and even the electric telephone was thought about some years before it was invented.
Bourseul, Reis, and others preceded Graham Bell.

The phonograph was more of a surprise; but still it was no exception
to the rule.

Naturally, men and women had desired to preserve the accents as well as the lineaments of some beloved
friend who had passed away. The Chinese have a legend of a mother whose voice was so beautiful
that her children tried to store it in a bamboo cane, which was carefully sealed up. Long after
she was dead the cane was opened, and her voice came out in all its
sweetness, but was never heard again.

A similar idea (which reminds us of Munchausen's trumpet) is found in the NATURAL MAGICK of John
Baptista Porta, the celebrated Neapolitan philosopher, and published at London in 1658. He proposes
to confine the sound of the voice in leaden pipes, such as are used for speaking through;
and he goes on to say that'if any man, as the words are spoken, shall stop the end of the
pipe, and he that is at the other end shall do the like, the voice may be intercepted in the
middle, and be shut up as in a prison, and when the mouth is opened, the voice will come forth
as out of his mouth that spake it.... I am now upon trial of it. If before my book be printed
the business take effect, I will set it down; if not, if God please,
I shall write of it elsewhere.'Porta also refers to the speaking
head of Albertus Magnus, whom, however, he discredits.

He likewise mentions a colossal trumpeter of brass, stated to have been erected in some ancient
cities, and describes a plan for making a kind of megaphone,'wherewith
we may hear many miles.'In the VOYAGE A LA LUNE of De Cyrano Bergerac,
published at Paris in 1650, and subsequently translated into English,
there is a long account of a'mechanical book'which spoke its contents
to the listener.'It was a book, indeed,'says Cyrano,'but a strange
and wonderful book, which had neither leaves nor letters,'and which
instructed the Youth in their walks, so that they knew more than the
Greybeards of Cyrano's country, and need never lack the company of
all the great men living or dead to entertain them with living voices.

Sir
David Brewster surmised that a talking machine mould be invented before the end of the century. Mary
Somerville, in her CONNECTION OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES, wrote some fifty years ago:'It may be presumed that
ultimately the utterances or pronunciation of modern languages will be conveyed, not only to
the eye, but also to the ear of posterity. Had the ancients possessed the means of transmitting
such definite sounds, the civilised world must have responded in sympathetic
notes at the distance of many ages.'In the MEMOIRES DU GEANT of M.
Nadar, published in 1864, the author says:'These last fifteen years
I have amused myself in thinking there is nothing to prevent a man
one of these days from finding a way to give us a daguerreotype of
sound-- the phonograph-- something like a box in which melodies will
be fixed and kept, as images are fixed in the dark chamber.'It is
also on record that, before Edison had published his discovery to
the world, M. Charles Cros deposited a sealed packet at the Academie
des Sciences, Paris, giving an account of an invention similar to
the phonograph.

Ignorance of the true nature of sound had prevented the introduction of such an instrument. But modern
science, and in particular the invention of the telephone with its vibrating plate, had paved
the way for it. The time was ripe, and Edison was the first to do
it. In spite of the unbridled fancies of the poets and the hints of
ingenious writers, the announcement that a means of hoarding speech
had been devised burst like a thunderclap upon the world.

[In seeing his mother's picture Byron wished that he might hear her voice. The logograph had traced
all the curves of speech with ink on paper; and it only remained to impress them on a solid surface
in such a manner as to regulate the vibrations of an artificial tympanum
or drum. Yet no professor of acoustics thought of this, and it was
left to Edison, a telegraphic inventor, to show them what was lying at
their feet. Mere knowledge, uncombined in the imagination, does not bear
fruit in new inventions. It is from the union of different facts that
a new idea springs. A scholar is apt to be content with the acquisition
of knowledge, which remains passive in his mind. An inventor seizes
upon fresh facts, and combines them with the old, which thereby become
nascent.

Through accident or premeditation he is able by uniting scattered thoughts to add a novel instrument to
a domain of science with which he has little acquaintance. Nay, the lessons of experience and
the scruples of intimate knowledge sometimes deter a master from
attempting what the tyro, with the audacity of genius and the hardihood
of ignorance, achieves.

Theorists have been known to pronounce against a promising invention
which has afterwards been carried to success, and it is not improbable
that if Edison had been an authority in acoustics he would never have
invented the phonograph.

It happened in this wise. During the spring of 1877, he was trying a device
for making a telegraph message, received on one line, automatically
repeat itself along another line.

This he did by embossing the Morse signals on the travelling paper instead of merely inking them, and
then causing the paper to pass under the point of a stylus, which, by rising and falling in the indentations,
opened and closed a sending key included in the circuit of the second line. In this way the received
message transmitted itself further, without the aid of a telegraphist. Edison was running the
cylinder which carried the embossed paper at a high speed one day,
partly, as we are told, for amusement, and partly to test the rate
at which a clerk could read a message.

As the speed was raised, the paper gave out a humming rhythmic sound in passing under the stylus.
The separate signals of the message could no longer be distinguished by the ear, and the
instrument seemed to be speaking in a language of its own, resembling'human
talk heard indistinctly.'Immediately it flashed on the inventor that
if he could emboss the waves of speech upon the paper the words would
be returned to him.

To conceive was to execute, and it was but the work of an hour to provide a vibrating diaphragm
or tympanum fitted with an indenting stylus, and adapt it to the apparatus. Paraffined paper
was selected to receive the indentations, and substituted for the Morse paper on the cylinder
of the machine. On speaking to the tympanum, as the cylinder was revolved, a record of the
vibrations was indented on the paper, and by re-passing this under the indenting point an imperfect
reproduction of the sounds was heard. Edison'saw at once that the problem
of registering human speech, so that it could be repeated by mechanical
means as often as might he desired, was solved.'[T. A. Edison, NORTH
AMERICAN REVIEW, June, 1888; New York ELECTRICAL REVIEW, 1888,] The
experiment shows that it was partly by accident, and not by reasoning
on theoretical knowledge, that the phonograph was discovered.

The sound resembling'human talk heard indistinctly'seems to have suggested it to his mind. This was
the germ which fell upon the soil prepared for it. Edison's thoughts had been dwelling on the
telephone; he knew that a metal tympanum was capable of vibrating with all the delicacies of speech,
and it occurred to him that if these vibrations could be impressed on a yielding material, as the
Morse signals were embossed upon the paper, the indentations would reproduce
the speech, just as the furrows of the paper reproduced the Morse
signals.

The tympanum vibrating in the curves of speech was instantly united in his imagination with the
embossing stylus and the long and short indentations on the Morse
paper; the idea of the phonograph flashed upon him. Many a one versed
in acoustics would probably have been restrained by the practical
difficulty of impressing the vibrations on a yielding material, and
making them react upon the reproducing tympanum.

   But Edison, with that daring
   mastery over matter which is a characteristic of his mechanical
genius, put it confidently to the test.

Soon after this experiment, a phonograph was constructed, in which a sheet of tinfoil was wrapped round
a revolving barrel having a spiral groove cut in its surface to allow the point of the indenting stylus
to sink into the yielding foil as it was thrust up and down by the vibrating tympanum. This apparatus--
the first phonograph-- was published to the world in 1878, and created a universal sensation.
[SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, March 30, 1878] It is now in the South Kensington
Museum, to which it was presented by the inventor.

The phonograph was first publicly exhibited in England at a meeting of the Society of Telegraph
Engineers, where its performances filled the audience with astonishment
and delight.

A greeting from Edison to his electrical brethren across the Atlantic had been impressed on the tinfoil,
and was spoken by the machine. Needless to say, the voice of the
inventor, however imperfectly reproduced, was hailed with great enthusiasm,
which those who witnessed will long remember.

In this machine, the barrel was fitted with a crank, and rotated by handle. A heavy flywheel was
attached to give it uniformity of motion. A sheet of tinfoil formed the record, and the delivery
could be heard by a roomful of people.

But articulation was sacrificed at the expense of loudness. It was as though a parrot or a punchinello
spoke, and sentences which were unexpected could not be understood.

Clearly, if the phonograph were to become a practical instrument, it required to be much improved.
Nevertheless this apparatus sufficiently demonstrated the feasibility of storing up and reproducing
speech, music, and other sounds. Numbers of them were made, and exhibited
to admiring audiences, by license, and never failed to elicit both
amusement and applause. To show how striking were its effects, and
how surprising, even to scientific men, it may be mentioned that a
certain learned SAVANT, on hearing it at a SEANCE of the Academie
des Sciences, Paris, protested that it was a fraud, a piece of trickery
or ventriloquism, and would not be convinced.

After 1878 Edison became too much engaged with the development of the electric light to give
much attention to the phonograph, which, however, was not entirely overlooked.
His laboratory at Menlo Park, New Jersey, where the original experiments
were made, was turned into a factory for making electric light machinery,
and Edison removed to New York until his new laboratory at Orange,
New Jersey, was completed.

Of late he has occupied the latter premises, and improved the phonograph so far that it is now
a serviceable instrument. In one of his 1878 patents, the use of wax
to take the records in place of tinfoil is indicated, and it is chiefly
to the adoption of this material that the success of the'perfected
phonograph'is due.

Wax is also employed in the'graphophone'of Mr. Tainter and Professor Bell,
which is merely a phonograph under another name.

Numerous experiments have been made by Edison to find the bees-wax which is best adapted to receive
the record, and he has recently discovered a new material or mixture which is stated to yield
better results than white wax. The wax is moulded into the form
of a tube or hollow cylinder, usually 4 1/ 4 inches long by 2 inches
in diameter, and 1/ 8 inch thick.

Such a size is capable of taking a thousand words on its surface along a delicate spiral trace; and
by paring off one record after another can be used fifteen times.

There are a hundred or more lines of the trace in the width of an inch,
and they are hardly visible to the naked eye.

Only with a magnifying glass can the undulations caused by the vibrating stylus be distinguished.
This tube of wax is filed upon a metal barrel like a sleeve, and the barrel, which forms part of
a horizontal spindle, is rotated by means of a silent electro-motor, controlled by a very sensitive
governor. A motion of translation is also given to the barrel as it revolves, so that the marking
stylus held over it describes a spiral path upon its surface. In front of the wax two small metal tympanums
are supported, each carrying a fine needle point or stylus on its
under centre. "Me'n' trouble
has locked horns more'n once, 'n' I'd feel right lonesome if I thought our trails'd never cross
agin. Why, down in Coconino County--" He went off into a long recital of certain extremely
bloody chapters in the history of that famed county as chronicled by one Bud Welch, otherwise
known as Big Medicine--and not because of his modesty, you may be sure.

Noon of that day found them plodding across a high, barren mesa under a burning sun. Since
red dawn they had been riding, and the horses showed their need of water. They lagged often
into a heavy-footed walk and their ears drooped dispiritedly. Even Big Medicine found nothing
cheerful to say. Luck went out of his way to gain the top of every little rise, and to scan
the surrounding country through his field glasses. The last time he came sliding down to the
others his face was not so heavy with anxiety and his voice when he spoke had a new briskness.

"There's a ranch of some kind straight ahead about two miles," he announced. "I could see a
green patch, so there must be water around there somewhere. We'll make noon camp there, and
maybe we can dig up a little information. Ramon must have stopped there for water, and we'll
find out just how far we are behind."

The ranch, when they finally neared it, proved to be a huddle of low, octagon-shaped huts (called
hogans) made of short cedar logs and plastered over with adobe, with a hole in the center of
the lid-like roof to let the smoke out and a little light in; and dogs, that ran out and barked
and yelped and trailed into mourning rumbles and then barked again; and half-naked papooses
that scurried like rabbits for shelter when they rode up; and two dingy, shapeless squaws that
disappeared within a hogan and peered out at one side of the blanket door.

Luck started to dismount and make some attempt at a polite request for water, and for information
as well, but Applehead objected and finally had his way.

If the squaws could speak English, he argued, they would lie unless they refused to talk at
all. As to the water, if there was any around the place the bunch could find it and help themselves.
"These yer Navvies ain't yore Buffalo-Bill Sioux," he pointed out to Luck. "Yuh can't treat
'em the same. The best we kin look fer is to be left alone--an' I'm tellin' ye straight."

Luck gave the squalid huts a long stare and turned away toward the corral and a low shed that
served as a stable. A rusty old mower and a toothless rake and a rickety buckboard stood baking
in the sun, and a few stunted hens fluttered away from their approach. So he tried his hand at
invention, and, in conjunction with his brother Sidney, produced what was playfully described
as'Morse's Patent Metallic Double-Headed Ocean-Drinker and Deluge-Spouter Pump-Box.'The pump was
quite as much admired as the'Jupiter,'and it proved as great a failure.
Succeeding as a portrait painter, he went, in 1818, on the invitation
of his uncle, Dr. Finley, to Charleston, in South Carolina, and opened
a studio there.

After a single season he found himself in a position to marry, and on October 1, 1818, was united
to Lucretia P. Walker, of Concord, New Hampshire, a beautiful and accomplished lady. He thrived so
well in the south that he once received as many as one hundred and fifty
orders in a few weeks; and his reputation was such that he was honoured
with a commission from the Common Council of Charleston to execute
a portrait of James Monroe, then President of the United States.

It was regarded as a masterpiece. In January, 1821, he instituted the South Carolina Academy of
Fine Arts, which is now extinct. After four years of life in Charleston he returned to the north
with savings to the amount of L600, and settled in New York. He devoted eighteen months to the execution
of a large painting of the House of Representatives in the Capitol at Washington; but its exhibition
proved a loss, and in helping his brothers to pay his father's debts
the remains of his little fortune were swept away.

He stood next to Allston as an American historical painter, but all his productions in that line
proved a disappointment.

The public would not buy them. On the other hand, he received an order from the Corporation of New
York for a portrait of General Lafayette, the hero of the hour. While engaged on this work he lost
his wife in February, 1825, and then his parents. In 1829 he visited Europe, and spent his time
among the artists and art galleries of England, France, and Italy.
In Paris he undertook a picture of the interior of the Louvre, showing
some of the masterpieces in miniature, but it seems that nobody purchased
it.

He expected to be chosen to illustrate one of the vacant panels in the Rotunda of the Capitol
at Washington; but in this too he was mistaken.

However, some fellow-artists in America, thinking he had deserved the honour, collected a sum
of money to assist him in painting the composition he had fixed upon:'The
Signing of the First Compact on Board the Mayflower.'In a far from
hopeful mood after his three years'residence abroad he embarked on
the packet Sully, Captain Pell, and sailed from Havre for New York
on October 1, 1832.

Among the passengers was Dr. Charles T. Jackson, of Boston, who had attended some lectures on electricity
in Paris, and carried an electro-magnet in his trunk. One day while Morse and Dr. Jackson,
with a few more, sat round the luncheon table in the cabin, he began to talk of the experiments
he had witnessed.

Some one asked if the speed of the electricity was lessened by its passage through a long wire,
and Dr. Jackson, referring to a trial of Faraday, replied that the current was apparently
instantaneous.

Morse, who probably remembered his old lessons in the subject, now remarked that if the presence
of the electricity could be rendered visible at any point of the circuit he saw no reason why intelligence
might not be sent by this means. The idea became rooted in his mind, and engrossed his thoughts.
Until far into the night he paced the deck discussing the matter
with Dr. Jackson, and pondering it in solitude.

Ways of rendering the electricity sensible at the far end of the line were considered. The spark
might pierce a band of travelling paper, as Professor Day had mentioned years before; it might decompose
a chemical solution, and leave a stain to mark its passage, as tried by Mr. Dyar in 1827; Or it could
excite an electro-magnet, which, by attracting a piece of soft iron,
would inscribe the passage with a pen or pencil.

The signals could be made by very short currents or jets of electricity, according to a settled
code. Thus a certain number of jets could represent a corresponding numeral, and the numeral
would, in its turn, represent a word in the language.

To decipher the message, a special code-book or dictionary would
be required.

In order to transmit the currents through the line, he devised a mechanical sender, in which the
circuit would be interrupted by a series of types carried on a port-rule
or composing-stick, which travelled at a uniform speed.

Each type would have a certain number of teeth or projections on its upper face, and as it
was passed through a gap in the circuit the teeth would make or break
the current. At the other end of the line the currents thus transmitted
would excite the electro-magnet, actuate the pencil, and draw a zig-zag
line on the paper, every angle being a distinct signal, and the groups
of signals representing a word in the code.

During the voyage of six weeks the artist jotted his crude ideas in his
sketch-book, which afterwards became a testimony to their date.

That he cherished hopes of his invention may be gathered from his words on landing,'Well, Captain
Pell, should you ever hear of the telegraph one of these days as the wonder of the world, remember the
discovery was made on the good ship Sully.'Soon after his return
his brothers gave him a room on the fifth floor of a house at the
corner of Nassau and Beekman Streets, New York.

For a long time it was his studio and kitchen, his laboratory and bedroom. With his livelihood
to earn by his brush, and his invention to work out, Morse was now fully occupied. His diet was
simple; he denied himself the pleasures of society, and employed
his leisure in making models of his types.

The studio was an image of his mind at this epoch. Rejected pictures
looked down upon his clumsy apparatus, type-moulds lay among plaster-casts,
the paint-pot jostled the galvanic battery, and the easel shared
his attention with the lathe.

By degrees the telegraph allured him from the canvas, and he only painted enough to keep the
wolf from the door. His national picture,'The Signing of the First Compact on Board the Mayflower,'was
never finished, and the 300 dollars which had been subscribed for
it were finally returned with interest.

For Morse by nature was proud and independent, with a sensitive horror of incurring debt. He would rather
endure privation than solicit help or lie under a humiliating obligation. His mother seems
to have been animated with a like spirit, for the Hon. Amos Kendall informs us that she had suffered
much through the kindness of her husband in becoming surety for his
friends, and that when she was dying she exacted a promise from her
son that he would never endanger his peace of mind and the comfort
of his home by doing likewise.

During the two and a half years from November, 1832, to the summer of 1835 he was obliged to change
his residence three times, and want of money prevented him from combining the several parts of his
invention into a working whole. In 1835, however, his reputation as an historical painter,
and the esteem in which he was held as a man of culture and refinement, led to his appointment
as the first Professor of the Literature of the Arts of Design in
the newly founded University of the city of New York.

In the month of July he took up his quarters in the new buildings of the University at Washington
Square, and was henceforth able to devote more time to his apparatus. The same year Professor Daniell,
of King's College, London, brought out his constant-current battery, which befriended Morse in his
experiments, as it afterwards did Cooke and Wheatstone, Hitherto
the voltaic battery had been a source of trouble, owing to the current
becoming weak as the battery was kept in action.

The length of line through which Morse could work his apparatus was an important point to be determined,
for it was known that the current grows feebler in proportion to
the resistance of the wire it traverses.

Morse saw a way out of the difficulty, as Davy, Cooke, and Wheatstone did, by the device known
as the relay. Were the current too weak to effect the marking of a message, it might nevertheless
be sufficiently strong to open and close the circuit of a local battery which would print the
signals. Such relays and local batteries, fixed at intervals along the line, as post-horses on a turnpike,
would convey the message to an immense distance.'If I can succeed in working a magnet ten miles,'said
Morse,'I can go round the globe.

It matters not how delicate the movement may be.'According to his
own statement, he devised the relay in 1836 or earlier; but it was not
until the beginning of 1837 that he explained the device, and showed the
working of his apparatus to his friend, Mr. Leonard D. Gale, Professor
of Chemistry in the University.

This gentleman took a lively interest in the apparatus, and proved a generous ally of the inventor.
Until then Morse had only tried his recorder on a few yards of wire, the battery was a single pair
of plates, and the electro-magnet was of the elementary sort employed by Moll, and illustrated
in the older books. The artist, indeed, was very ignorant of what had been done by other electricians;
and Professor Gale was able to enlighten him. When Gale acquainted him with some results in telegraphing
obtained by Mr. Barlow, he said he was not aware that anyone had even conceived the notion of using the
magnet for such a purpose. The researches of Professor Joseph Henry on the electro-magnet, in 1830, were
equally unknown to Morse, until Professor Gale drew his attention
to them, and in accordance with the results, suggested that the simple
electro-magnet, with a few turns of thick wire which he employed,
should be replaced by one having a coil of long thin wire.

By this change a much feebler current would be able to excite the magnet, and the recorder would
mark through a greater length of line. Henry himself, in 1832, had devised a telegraph similar to
that of Morse, and signalled through a mile of wire, by causing the armature of his electro-magnet
to strike a bell. This was virtually the first electro-magnetic acoustic telegraph. [AMERICAN
JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.] The year of the telegraph-- 1837-- was an important one for Morse, as it
was for Cooke and Wheatstone. In the privacy of his rooms he had constructed, with his own hands,
a model of his apparatus, and fortune began to favour him. Thanks to
Professor Gale, he improved the electro-magnet, employed a more powerful
battery, and was thus able to work through a much longer line.

In February, 1837, the American House of Representatives passed a resolution asking the Secretary
of the Treasury to report on the propriety of establishing a system
of telegraphs for the United States, and on March 10 issued a circular
of inquiry, which fell into the hands of the inventor, and probably
urged him to complete his apparatus, and bring it under the notice
of the Government.

Lack of mechanical skill, ignorance of electrical science, as well as want of money, had so far
kept it back. But the friend in need whom he required was nearer than he anticipated. On Saturday,
September 2, 1837, while Morse was exhibiting the model to Professor
Daubeny, of Oxford, then visiting the States, and others, a young
man named Alfred Vail became one of the spectators, and was deeply
impressed with the results.

Vail was born in 1807, a son of Judge Stephen Vail, master of the Speedwell ironworks at Morristown,
New Jersey. After leaving the village school his father took him and his brother George into the works;
but though Alfred inherited a mechanical turn of mind, he longed for a higher sphere, and on attaining
to his majority he resolved to enter the Presbyterian Church. In 1832 he went to the University of the
city of New York, where he graduated in October, 1836. Near the close of the term, however, his health failed,
and he was constrained to relinquish his clerical aims. While in doubts as to his future he chanced
to see the telegraph, and that decided him. He says:'I accidentally and without invitation called
upon Professor Morse at the University, and found him with Professors
Torrey and Daubeny in the mineralogical cabinet and lecture-room of
Professor Gale, where Professor Morse was exhibiting to these gentlemen
an apparatus which he called his Electro-Magnetic Telegraph. There
were wires suspended in the room running from one end of it to the
other, and returning many times, making a length of seventeen hundred
feet.

The two ends of the wire were connected with an electro-magnet fastened
to a vertical wooden frame.

In front of the magnet was its armature, and also a wooden lever or arm fitted at its extremity
to hold a lead-pencil.... I saw this instrument work, and became thoroughly acquainted with the principle
of its operation, and, I may say, struck with the rude machine, containing,
as I believed, the germ of what was destined to produce great changes
in the conditions and relations of mankind.

I well recollect the impression which was then made upon my mind. I rejoiced to think that I lived in
such a day, and my mind contemplated the future in which so grand and
mighty an agent was about to be introduced for the benefit of the
world.

Before leaving the room in which I beheld for the first time this magnificent invention, I asked
Professor Morse if he intended to make an experiment on a more extended line of conductors. He replied that
he did, but that he desired pecuniary assistance to carry out his plans. I promised him assistance
provided he would admit me into a share of the invention, to which proposition
he assented. I then returned to my boarding-house, locked the door
of my room, threw myself upon the bed, and gave myself up to reflection
upon the mighty results which were certain to follow the introduction
of this new agent in meeting and serving the wants of the world.

With the atlas in my hand I traced the most important lines which would most certainly be erected
in the United States, and calculated their length.

The question then rose in my mind, whether the electro-magnet could be made to work through the
necessary lengths of line, and after much reflection I came to the conclusion that, provided
the magnet would work even at a distance of eight or ten miles,
there could be no risk in embarking in the enterprise.

And upon this I decided in my own mind to SINK OR SWIM WITH IT.'Young Vail applied to his father, who
was a man of enterprise and intelligence. He it was who forged the shaft of the Savannah, the
first steamship which crossed the Atlantic. Morse was invited to Speedwell with his apparatus, that
the judge might see it for himself, and the question of a partnership
was mooted.

Two thousand dollars were required to procure the patents and construct an instrument to bring
before the Congress. In spite of a financial depression, the judge was brave enough to lend
his assistance, and on September 23, 1837, an agreement was signed between the inventor and Alfred
Vail, by which the latter was to construct, at his own expense, a model for exhibition to a
Committee of Congress, and to secure the necessary patents for the United States. In return Vail
was to receive one-fourth of the patent rights in that country. Provision was made also to give Vail
an interest in any foreign patents he might furnish means to obtain. The American patent was obtained
by Morse on October 3, 1837. He had returned to New York, and was engaged in the preparation of
his dictionary. For many months Alfred Vail worked in a secret room at the iron factory making
the new model, his only assistant being an apprentice of fifteen,
William Baxter, who subsequently designed the Baxter engine, and died
in 1885.

When the workshop was rebuilt this room was preserved as a memorial of the telegraph, for it was
here that the true Morse instrument, such as we know it, was constructed. It must be remembered
that in those days almost everything they wanted had either to be made
by themselves or appropriated to their purpose. Their first battery
was set up in a box of cherry-wood, parted into cells, and lined
with bees-wax; their insulated wire was that used by milliners for
giving outline to the'sky-scraper'bonnets of that day.

The first machine made at Speedwell was a copy of that devised by Morse, but as Vail grew more
intimate with the subject his own ingenuity came into play, and he soon improved on the original.
The pencil was discarded for a fountain pen, and the zig-zag signals for the short and long lines
now termed'dots'and'dashes.'This important alteration led him to
the'Morse alphabet,'or code of signals, by which a letter is transmitted
as a group of short and long jets, indicated as'dots'and'dashes'on
the paper.

Thus the letter E, which is so common in English words, is now transmitted by a short jet which makes
a dot; T, another common letter, by a long jet, making a dash; and Q, a rare letter, by the group
dash, dash, dot, dash. Vail tried to compute the relative frequency of all the letters in order to
arrange his alphabet; but a happy idea enabled him to save his time. He went to the office of
the local newspaper, and found the result he wanted in the type-cases
of the compositors.

The Morse, or rather Vail code, is at present the universal telegraphic code of symbols,
and its use is extending to other modes of signalling-for example, by flags, lights, or trumpets.
The hard-fisted farmers of New Jersey, like many more at that date, had
no faith in the'telegraph machine,'and openly declared that the judge
had been a fool for once to put his money in it. The judge, on his
part, wearied with the delay, and irritated by the sarcasm of his
neighbours, grew dispirited and moody.

Alfred, and Morse, who had come to assist, were careful to avoid
meeting him.

At length, on January 6, 1838, Alfred told the apprentice to go up to the house and invite his
father to come down to see the telegraph at work. It was a cold day,
but the boy was so eager that he ran off without putting on his coat.

In the sitting-room he found the judge with his hat on as if about to go out, but seated before
the fire leaning his head on his hand, and absorbed in gloomy reflection.'Well, William?'he said, looking
up, as the boy entered; and when the message was delivered he started to his feet. In a few minutes
he was standing in the experimental-room, and the apparatus was explained. Calling for a piece
of paper he wrote upon it the words,'A PATIENT WAITER IS NO LOSER,'and handed it to Alfred, with
the remark,'If you can send this, and Mr. Morse can read it at the
other end, I shall be convinced.'The message was transmitted, and
for a moment the judge was fairly mastered by his feelings.

The apparatus was then exhibited in New York, in Philadelphia, and subsequently before the Committee
of Congress at Washington. At first the members of this body were somewhat incredulous about
the merits of the uncouth machine; but the Chairman, the Hon. Francis O. J. Smith, of Maine,
took an interest in it, and secured a full attendance of the others
to see it tried through ten miles of wire one day in February.

The demonstration convinced them, and many were the expressions of amazement from their lips.
Some said,'The world is coming to an end,'as people will when it is really budding, and putting
forth symptoms of a larger life. Others exclaimed,'Where will improvements and discoveries stop?'and'What
would Jefferson think should he rise up and witness what we have just seen?'One gentleman declared
that,'Time and space are now annihilated.'The practical outcome of
the trial was that the Chairman reported a Bill appropriating 30,000
dollars for the erection of an experimental line between Washington
and Baltimore.

Mr. Smith was admitted to a fourth share in the invention, and resigned his seat in Congress
to become legal adviser to the inventors. Claimants to the invention of the telegraph now began to spring
up, and it was deemed advisable for Mr. Smith and Morse to proceed
to Europe and secure the foreign patents. Alfred Vail undertook to
provide an instrument for exhibition in Europe.

Among these claimants was Dr. Jackson, chemist and geologist, of Boston, who had been instrumental in evoking
the idea of the telegraph in the mind of Morse on board the Sully. In a letter to the NEW YORK
OBSERVER he went further than this, and claimed to be a joint inventor;
but Morse indignantly repudiated the suggestion.

He declared
that his instrument was not mentioned either by him or Dr. Jackson at the
time, and that they had made no experiments together.'It is to Professor
Gale that I am most of all indebted for substantial and effective
aid in many of my experiments,'he said;'but he prefers no claim of
any kind.'Morse and Smith arrived in London during the month of June.

Application was immediately made for a British patent, but Cooke and Wheatstone and Edward Davy,
it seems, opposed it; and although Morse demonstrated that his was different from theirs, the patent
was refused, owing to a prior publication in the London MECHANICS'MAGAZINE for February 18,
1838, in the form of an article quoted from Silliman's AMERICAN JOURNAL OF SCIENCE for October,
1837. Morse did not attempt to get this legal disqualification set aside. In France he was equally
unfortunate. His instrument was exhibited by Arago at a meeting of the
Institute, and praised by Humboldt and Gay-Lussac; but the French patent law
requires the invention to be at work in France within two years,
and when Morse arranged to erect a telegraph line on the St. Germain
Railway, the Government declined to sanction it, on the plea that
the telegraph must become a State monopoly.

All his efforts to introduce the invention into Europe were futile, and he returned disheartened to
the United States on April 15, 1839. While in Paris, he had met M. Daguerre, who, with M. Niepce,
had just discovered the art of photography. The process was communicated to Morse, who, with
Dr. Draper, fitted up a studio on the roof of the University, and took the first daguerreotypes
in America. The American Congress now seemed as indifferent to his inventions as the European governments.
An exciting campaign for the presidency was at hand, and the proposed
grant for the telegraph was forgotten.

Mr. Smith had returned to the political arena, and the Vails were under a financial cloud,
so that Morse could expect no further aid from them. The next two years were the darkest he had
ever known.'Porte Crayon'tells us that he had little patronage as a professor, and at one time
only three pupils besides himself. Crayon's fee of fifty dollars for the second quarter were overdue,
owing to his remittance from home not arriving; and one day the professor said,'Well, Strother,
my boy, how are we off for money?'Strother explained how he was situated,
and stated that he hoped to have the money next week.'Next week!'repeated
Morse.'I shall be dead by that time... dead of starvation.'' Would
ten dollars be of any service?'inquired the student, both astonished
and distressed.'Ten dollars would save my life,'replied Morse; and
Strother paid the money, which was all he owned.

They dined together, and afterwards the professor remarked,'This is my first meal for twenty-four hours.
Strother, don't be an artist.

It means beggary. A house-dog lives better. The very sensitiveness that stimulates an artist
to work keeps him alive to suffering.'Towards the close of 1841 he wrote to Alfred Vail:'I have
not a cent in the world;'and to Mr. Smith about the same time he wrote:'I find myself without sympathy
or help from any who are associated with me, whose interests, one
would think, would impell them at least to inquire if they could
render some assistance.

For nearly two years past I have devoted all my time and scanty means, living on a mere pittance,
denying myself all pleasures, and even necessary food, that I might have a sum to put my telegraph
into such a position before Congress as to insure success to the
common enterprise.
These horses had drunk their fill at the little pool below the spring. They should be feeding
now, or they should lie down and sleep, or stand up and sleep--anything but travel like this,
deliberately away from camp.

Pink tried loping, but the ground was too treacherous and his horse too leg-weary to handle
its feet properly in the dark. It stumbled several times, so he pulled down again to a fast
walk. For a few minutes he did not hear the bell at all, and when he did it was not where he
had expected to hear it, but away off to one side. So he had gained nothing save in anger and
uneasiness.

There was no use going back to camp and rousing the boys, for he was now a mile or so away;
and they would be afoot, since their custom was to keep but one horse saddled. When he went
in to call the next guard he would be expected to bring that man's horse back with him, and
would turn his own loose before he went to sleep. Certainly there was nothing to be gained
by rousing the camp.

He did not suspect the trick being played upon him, though he did wonder if someone was leading
the horses away. Still, in that case whoever did it would surely have sense enough to muffle
the bell. Besides, it sounded exactly like a horse feeding and moving away at random--which,
to those familiar with the sound, can never be mistaken for the tinkle of an animal traveling
steadily to some definite point.

It was an extremely puzzled young man who rode and rode that night in pursuit of that evasive,
nagging, altogether maddening tinkle. Always just over the next little rise he would hear it,
or down in the next little draw; never close enough for him to discover the trick; never far
enough away for him to give up the chase. The stars he had been watching in camp swam through
the purple immensity above him and slid behind the skyline. Other stars as brilliant appeared
and began their slow, swimming journey. Pink rode, and stopped to listen, and rode on again
until it seemed to him that he must be dreaming some terribly realistic nightmare.

He was sitting on his horse on a lava-crusted ridge, straining bloodshot eyes into the mesa
that stretched dimly before him, when dawn came streaking the sky with blood orange and purple
and crimson. The stars were quenched in that flood of light; and Pink, looking now with clearer
vision, saw that there was no living thing in sight save a coyote trotting home from his night's
hunting. He turned short around and, getting his bearings from his memory of certain stars
and from the sun that was peering at him from the top of a bare peak, and from that sense of
direction which becomes second nature to a man who had lived long on the range, started for
camp with his ill news.

CHAPTER XIV. ONE PUT OVER ON THE BUNCH

"Sounds to me," volunteered the irrepressible Big Medicine after a heavy silence, "like as
if you'd gone to sleep on your hawse, Little One, and dreamed that there tinkle-tinkle stuff.
By cripes, I'd like to see the bell-hawse that could walk away from ME 'nless I was asleep
an' dreamin' about it. Sounds like--"

"Sounds like Navvy work," Applehead put in, eyeing the surrounding rim of sun-gilded mesa,
where little brown birds fluttered in short, swift flights and chirped with exasperating cheerfulness.

"If it was anybody, it was Ramon Chavez," Luck declared with the positiveness of his firm conviction.
"By the tracks here, we're crowding up on him. And no man that's guilty of a crime, Applehead,
is going to ride day after day without wanting to take a look over his shoulder to see if be's
followed. He's probably seen us from some of these ridges--yesterday, most likely. And do you
think he wouldn't know this bunch as far as he could see us, even without glasses? The chances
are he has them, though. He'd be a fool if he didn't stake himself to a pair."

"Say, by gracious," Andy observed somewhat irrelevantly, his eyes going over the group, "this
would sure make great picture dope, wouldn't it? Why didn't we bring Pete along, darn it? Us
all standing around here, plumb helpless because we're afoot--"

"Aw, shut up!" snapped Pink, upon whom the burden of responsibility lay heavy. "I oughta be
hung for laying around the fire here instead of being out there on guard! I oughta--"

"It ain't your fault," Weary championed him warmly. "We all heard the bell--"

"Yes--and damn it,I heard the bell from then on till daylight!" Pink's lips quivered perceptibly
with the mortification that burned within him. "If I'd been on guard--"

"Well, I calc'late you'd a been laid out now with a knife-cut in yuh som'ers," Applehead stopped
twisting his sunburnt mustache to say bluntly. "'S a dang lucky thing fer you, young man, 't
you WASN'T on guard, 'n' the only thing't looks queer to me is that you wasn't potted las'
night when yuh got out away from here. Musta been only one of 'em stayed behind, an' he had
t' keep out in front uh yuh t' tinkle that dang bell. Figgered on wearin' out yer hoss, I reckon,
'n' didn't skurcely dare t' take the risk uh killin' you off 'nless they was a bunch around
t' handle us." His bright blue eyes with their range squint went from one to another with a
certain speculative pride in the glance. "'N' they shore want t' bring a crowd along when they
tie into this yere outfit, now I'm tellin' yuh!"

Lite Avery, who had gone prowling down the draw by himself, came back to camp, tilting stiff-leggedly
along in his high-heeled boots and betraying, in every step he took, just how handicapped a
cowpuncher is when set afoot upon the range and forced to walk where he has always been accustomed
to ride. SIR WILLIAM FOTHERGILL COOKE IV. ALEXANDER BAIN V. DR. WERNER SIEMENS VI. LATIMER CLARK
VII. COUNT DU MONCEL VIII.

ELISHA GRAY CHAPTER I. THE ORIGIN OF THE TELEGRAPH.

The history of an invention, whether of science or art, may be compared to the growth of an
organism such as a tree. The wind, or the random visit of a bee, unites the pollen in the
flower, the green fruit forms and ripens to the perfect seed, which, on being planted in congenial
soil, takes root and flourishes.

Even so from the chance combination of two facts in the human mind, a crude idea springs, and
after maturing into a feasible plan is put in practice under favourable conditions, and so
develops.

These processes are both subject to a thousand accidents which are inimical to their achievement.
Especially is this the case when their object is to produce a novel species, or a new and great
invention like the telegraph. It is then a question of raising, not one seedling, but many,
and modifying these in the lapse of time.

Similarly the telegraph is not to be regarded as the work of any one mind, but of many, and
during a long course of years. Because at length the final seedling is obtained, are we to overlook
the antecedent varieties from which it was produced, and without
which it could not have existed?

Because one inventor at last succeeds in putting the telegraph in operation, are we to neglect
his predecessors, whose attempts and failures were the steps by which he mounted to success?
All who have extended our knowledge of electricity, or devised a telegraph, and familiarised the public
mind with the advantages of it, are deserving of our praise and gratitude, as well as he who
has entered into their labours, and by genius and perseverance won the honours of being the
first to introduce it.

Let us, therefore, trace in a rapid manner the history of the electric
telegraph from the earliest times.

The sources of a river are lost in the clouds of the mountain, but it is usual to derive its
waters from the lakes or springs which are its fountain-head. In the same way the origins
of our knowledge of electricity and magnetism are lost in the mists of antiquity, but there are
two facts which have come to be regarded as the starting-points of the science. It was known
to the ancients at least 600 years before Christ, that a piece of
amber when excited by rubbing would attract straws, and that a lump
of lodestone had the property of drawing iron.

Both facts were probably ascertained by chance. Humboldt informs us that he saw an Indian child
of the Orinoco rubbing the seed of a trailing plant to make it attract the wild cotton; and,
perhaps, a prehistoric tribesman of the Baltic or the plains of Sicily found in the yellow
stone he had polished the mysterious power of collecting dust. A Greek legend tells us that
the lodestone was discovered by Magnes, a shepherd who found his
crook attracted by the rock.

However this may be, we are told that Thales of Miletus attributed the attractive properties of
the amber and the lodestone to a soul within them. The name Electricity is derived from ELEKTRON,
the Greek for amber, and Magnetism from Magnes, the name of the shepherd, or, more likely,
from the city of Magnesia, in Lydia, where the stone occurred.

These properties of amber and lodestone appear to have been widely
known.

The Persian name for amber is KAHRUBA, attractor of straws, and that for lodestone AHANG-RUBA
attractor of iron.

In the old Persian romance, THE LOVES OF MAJNOON AND LEILA, the lover
sings--'She was as amber, and I but as straw: She touched me, and
I shall ever cling to her.'The Chinese philosopher, Kuopho, who flourished
in the fourth century, writes that,'the attraction of a magnet for
iron is like that of amber for the smallest grain of mustard seed.

It is like a breath of wind which mysteriously penetrates through both, and communicates itself with
the speed of an arrow.'[Lodestone was probably known in China before
the Christian era.] Other electrical effects were also observed by
the ancients.

Classical writers, as Homer, Caesar, and Plutarch, speak of flames on the points of javelins and
the tips of masts. They regarded them as manifestations of the Deity, as did the soldiers of the
Mahdi lately in the Soudan. It is recorded of Servius Tullus, the sixth king of Rome, that his hair
emitted sparks on being combed; and that sparks came from the body of Walimer, a Gothic chief,
who lived in the year 415 A. D. During the dark ages the mystical virtues
of the lodestone drew more attention than those of the more precious
amber, and interesting experiments were made with it.

The Romans knew that it could attract iron at some distance through an intervening fence of wood,
brass, or stone. One of their experiments was to float a needle on a piece of cork, and make it
follow a lodestone held in the hand.

This arrangement was perhaps copied from the compass of the Phoenician sailors, who buoyed a lodestone
and observed it set towards the north. There is reason to believe that the magnet was employed
by the priests of the Oracle in answering questions. We are told that the Emperor Valerius, while
at Antioch in 370 A. D., was shown a floating needle which pointed to the letters of the alphabet when
guided by the directive force of a lodestone. It was also believed that this effect might be
produced although a stone wall intervened, so that a person outside
a house or prison might convey intelligence to another inside.

This idea was perhaps the basis of the sympathetic telegraph of the Middle Ages, which is first described
in the MAGIAE NATURALIS of John Baptista Porta, published at Naples in 1558. It was supposed
by Porta and others after him that two similar needles touched by the same lodestone were sympathetic,
so that, although far apart, if both were freely balanced, a movement of one was imitated by
the other. By encircling each balanced needle with an alphabet, the
sympathetic telegraph was obtained.

Although
based on error, and opposed by Cabeus and others, this fascinating notion
continued to crop up even to the days of Addison. It was a prophetic shadow
of the coming invention.

Otto von Guericke, burgomaster of Magdeburg, invented the electrical machine for generating large quantities
of the electric fire. Stephen Gray, a pensioner of the Charterhouse, conveyed the fire to a distance
along a line of pack thread, and showed that some bodies conducted
electricity, while others insulated it.

Dufay proved that there were two qualities of electricity, now called positive and negative,
and that each kind repelled the like, but attracted the unlike. Von Kleist,
a cathedral dean of Kamm, in Pomerania, or at all events Cuneus,
a burgher, and Muschenbroek, a professor of Leyden, discovered the
Leyden jar for holding a charge of electricity; and Franklin demonstrated
the identity of electricity and lightning.

The charge from a Leyden jar was frequently sent through a chain of persons clasping hands, or
a length of wire with the earth as part of the circuit. This experiment was made by Joseph Franz,
of Vienna, in 1746, and Dr. Watson, of London, in 1747; while Franklin ignited spirits by a
spark which had been sent across the Schuylkill river by the same
means.

But none of these men seem to have grasped the idea of employing the fleet fire as a telegraph.
The first suggestion of an electric telegraph on record is that published
by one'C. M.'in the Scots Magazine for February 17, 1753.

The device consisted in running a number of insulated wires between two places, one for each letter of the
alphabet. The wires were to be charged with electricity from a machine one at a time, according
to the letter it represented.

At its far end the charged wire was to attract a disc of paper marked with the corresponding
letter, and so the message would be spelt.'C. M.'also suggested the
first acoustic telegraph, for he proposed to have a set of bells instead
of the letters, each of a different tone, and to be struck by the
spark from its charged wire.

The identity of'C. M.,'who dated his letter from Renfrew, has not been established beyond a doubt.
There is a tradition of a clever man living in Renfrew at that time, and afterwards in Paisley,
who could'licht a room wi'coal reek (smoke), and mak'lichtnin'speak and write upon the wa'.'By some
he was thought to be a certain Charles Marshall, from Aberdeen; but
it seems likelier that he was a Charles Morrison, of Greenock, who
was trained as a surgeon, and became connected with the tobacco trade
of Glasgow.

In Renfrew he was regarded as a kind of wizard, and he is said to have emigrated to Virginia,
where he died.

In the latter half of the eighteenth century, many other suggestions
of telegraphs based on the known properties of the electric fire
were published; for example, by Joseph Bozolus, a Jesuit lecturer
of Rome, in 1767; by Odier, a Geneva physicist, in 1773, who states
in a letter to a lady, that he conceived the idea on hearing a casual
remark, while dining at Sir John Pringle's, with Franklin, Priestley,
and other great geniuses.'I shall amuse you, perhaps, in telling you,'he
says,'that I have in my head certain experiments by which to enter
into conversation with the Emperor of Mogol or of China, the English,
the French, or any other people of Europe... You may intercommunicate
all that you wish at a distance of four or five thousands leagues
in less than half an hour.

Will that suffice you for glory?'George Louis Lesage, in 1782, proposed a plan similar to'C.
M.'s,'using underground wires. An anonymous correspondent of the JOURNAL DE PARIS for May 30,
1782, suggested an alarm bell to call attention to the message.

Lomond, of Paris, devised a telegraph with only one wire; the signals to be read by the peculiar
movements of an attracted pith-ball, and Arthur Young witnessed his plan in action, as recorded
in his diary.

M. Chappe, the inventor of the semaphore, tried about the year 1790
to introduce a synchronous electric telegraph, and failed.

Don Francisco Salva y Campillo, of Barcelona, in 1795, proposed to make a telegraph between Barcelona
and Mataro, either overhead or underground, and he remarks of the
wires,'at the bottom of the sea their bed would be ready made, and it
would be an extraordinary casualty that should disturb them.'In Salva's
telegraph, the signals were to be made by illuminating letters of
tinfoil with the spark.

Volta's great invention of the pile in 1800 furnished a new source
of electricity, better adapted for the telegraph, and Salva was apparently
the first to recognise this, for, in the same year, he proposed to
use it and interpret the signals by the twitching of a frog's limb,
or the decomposition of water.

In 1802, Jean Alexandre, a reputed natural son of Jean Jacques Rousseau, brought out a TELEGRAPHE
INTIME, or secret telegraph, which appears to have been a step-by-step apparatus. The inventor
concealed its mode of working, but it was believed to be electrical, and there was a needle
which stopped at various points on a dial. Alexandre stated that he had found out a strange matter
or power which was, perhaps generally diffused, and formed in some sort the soul of the universe.
He endeavoured to bring his invention under the eye of the First Consul, but Napoleon referred the
matter to Delambre, and would not see it. Alexandre was born at Paris, and served as a carver
and gilder at Poictiers; then sang in the churches till the Revolution
suppressed this means of livelihood.

He rose to influence as a Commissary-general, then retired from the
army and became an inventor.

His name is associated with a method of steering balloons, and a filter
for supplying Bordeaux with water from the Garonne.

But neither of these plans appear to have been put in practice, and he died at Angouleme, leaving his
widow in extreme poverty. Sommering, a distinguished Prussian anatomist, in 1809 brought out a
telegraph worked by a voltaic battery, and making signals by decomposing water. Two years later
it was greatly simplified by Schweigger, of Halle; and there is reason
to believe that but for the discovery of electro-magnetism by Oersted,
in 1824 the chemical telegraph would have come into practical use.

In 1806, Ralph Wedgwood submitted a telegraph based on frictional electricity to the Admiralty,
but was told that the semaphore was sufficient for the country.

In a pamphlet he suggested the establishment of a telegraph system with public offices in different centres.
Francis Ronalds, in 1816, brought a similar telegraph of his invention
to the notice of the Admiralty, and was politely informed that'telegraphs
of any kind are now wholly unnecessary.'In 1826-7, Harrison Gray Dyar,
of New York, devised a telegraph in which the spark was made to stain
the signals on moist litmus paper by decomposing nitric acid; but
he had to abandon his experiments in Long Island and fly the country,
because of a writ which charged him with a conspiracy for carrying
on secret communication.

In 1830 Hubert Recy published an account of a system of Teletatodydaxie, by which the electric
spark was to ignite alcohol and indicate the signals of a code. But spark or frictional electric
telegraphs were destined to give way to those actuated by the voltaic
current, as the chemical mode of signalling was superseded by the
electro-magnet.

In 1820 the separate courses of electric and magnetic science were united
by the connecting discovery of Oersted, who found that a wire conveying
a current had the power of moving a compass-needle to one side or
the other according to the direction of the current.

La Place, the illustrious mathematician, at once saw that this fact could be utilised as a
telegraph, and Ampere, acting on his suggestion, published a feasible plan. Before the year was
out, Schweigger, of Halle, multiplied the influence of the current
on the needle by coiling the wire about it.

Ten years later, Ritchie improved on Ampere's method, and exhibited a model at the Royal Institution,
London. About the same time, Baron Pawel Schilling, a Russian nobleman, still further modified
it, and the Emperor Nicholas decreed the erection of a line from Cronstadt
to St. Petersburg, with a cable in the Gulf of Finland but Schilling
died in 1837, and the project was never realised.

In 1833-5 Professors Gauss and Weber constructed a telegraph between
the physical cabinet and the Observatory of the University of Gottingen.

At first they used the voltaic pile, but abandoned it in favour of Faraday's recent discovery that
electricity could be generated in a wire by the motion of a magnet. The magnetic key with which
the message was sent Produced by its action an electric current which,
after traversing the line, passed through a coil and deflected a suspended
magnet to the right or left, according to the direction of the current.

A mirror attached to the suspension magnified the movement of the needle, and indicated the signals
after the manner of the Thomson mirror galvanometer. This telegraph, which was large and clumsy,
was nevertheless used not only for scientific, but for general correspondence. Steinheil, of Munich, simplified
it, and added an alarm in the form of a bell. In 1836, Steinheil also devised
a recording telegraph, in which the movable needles indicated the
message by marking dots and dashes with printer's ink on a ribbon
of travelling paper, according to an artificial code in which the
fewest signs were given to the commonest letters in the German language.

With this apparatus the message was registered at the rate of six words a minute. The early experimenters,
as we have seen, especially Salva, had utilised the ground as the return part of the circuit; and Salva had
proposed to use it on his telegraph, but Steinheil was the first to demonstrate its practical value.
In trying, on the suggestion of Gauss, to employ the rails of the Nurenberg to Furth railway as
the conducting line for a telegraph in the year 1838, he found they
would not serve; but the failure led him to employ the earth as the
return half of the circuit.

In 1837, Professor Stratingh, of Groninque, Holland, devised a telegraph
in which the signals were made by electro-magnets actuating the hammers
of two gongs or bells of different tone; and M. Amyot invented an
automatic sending key in the nature of a musical box. From 1837-8,
Edward Davy, a Devonshire surgeon, exhibited a needle telegraph in
London, and proposed one based on the discovery of Arago, that a piece
of soft iron is temporarily magnetised by the passage of an electric
current through a coil surrounding it.

This principle was further applied by Morse in his electro-magnetic printing telegraph. Davy was
a prolific inventor, and also sketched out a telegraph in which the
gases evolved from water which was decomposed by the current actuated
a recording pen.

But his most valuable discovery was the'relay,'that is to say, an auxiliary device by which a current
too feeble to indicate the signals could call into play a local battery strong enough to make them. Davy
was in a fair way of becoming one of the fathers of the working telegraph, when his private
affairs obliged him to emigrate to Australia, and leave the course open to Cooke and Wheatstone.
CHAPTER II. CHARLES WHEATSTONE.

 Brushing the sand smoothly across a hoofprint here, and another
one there; walking backward, their bodies bent, their sharp eyes scanning every little depression,
every faint trace of the passing of their tribesmen; brushing, replacing pebbles kicked aside
by a hoof, wiping out completely that trail which the Happy Family bad followed with such persistence,
the squaws did their part, while their men went on to prepare the trap.

Years ago--yet not so many after all--the mothers of these squaws, and their grandmothers,
had walked backward and stooped with little branches in their hands to wipe out the trail of
their warriors and themselves to circumvent the cunning of the enemy who pursued. So had they
brushed out the trail when their men had raided the ranchos of the first daring settlers, and
had driven off horses and cattle into the remoter wilderness.

And these, mind you, were the squaws and bucks whom you might meet any day on the streets in
Albuquerque, padding along the pavement and staring in at the shop windows, admiring silken
gowns with marked-down price tags, and exclaiming over flaxen-haired dolls and bright ribbon
streamers; squaws and bucks who brought rugs and blankets to sell, and who would bargain with
you in broken English and smile and nod in friendly fashion if you spoke to them in Spanish
or paid without bickering the price they asked for a rug. You might see them in the fifteen-cent
store, buying cheap candy and staring in mute admiration at all the gay things piled high on
the tables. Remember that, when I tell you what more they did out here in the wilderness. Remember
that and do not imagine that I am trying to take you back into the untamed days of the pioneers.

Luck and the Happy Family--so well had the squaws done their work--passed unsuspectingly over
the wiped-out trail, circled at fault on the far side of the rocky gulch for an hour or so
and then found the false trail just as the Indian decoys had intended that they should do.
And from a farther flat topped ridge a group of Indians with Dutch hair-cuts and Stetson hats
and moccasins (the two hall-marks of two races) watched them take the false trail, and looked
at one another and grinned sourly.

The false trail forked, showing that the six had separated into two parties of three riders,
each aiming to pass--so the hoofprints would lead one to believe--around the two ends of a
lone hill that sat squarely down on the mesa like a stone treasure chest dropped there by the
gods when the world was young.

The Happy Family drew rein and eyed the parting of the ways dubiously.

"Wonder what they did that for?" Andy Green grumbled, mopping his red face irritatedly. "We've
got trouble enough without having them split up on us."

"From the looks, I should say we're overhauling the bunch," Luck hazarded. "They maybe met
on the other side of this butte somewhere. And the tracks were made early this morning, I should
say. How about it, Applehead?"

"Well, they look fresher 'n what we bin follerin' before," Applehead admitted. "But I don't
like this here move uh theirn, and I'm tellin' yuh so. The way--"

"I don't like anything about 'em," snapped Luck, standing in his stirrups as though that extra
three inches would let him see over the hill. Mr. Watson, five miles away in Somerville, promptly
answered in the affirmative, and soon was heard a voice singing "America.".... Going to another
instrument, connected by wire with Providence, forty-three miles distant, Mr. Bell listened a
moment, and said, "Signor Brignolli, who is assisting at a concert
in Providence Music Hall, will now sing for us."

In a moment the cadence of the tenor's voice rose and fell, the sound being faint, sometimes lost,
and then again audible.

Later, a cornet solo played in Somerville was very distinctly heard. Still later, a three-part
song floated over the wire from the Somerville terminus, and Mr. Bell amused his audience exceedingly
by exclaiming, "I will switch off the song from one part of the room to another, so that all
can hear." At a subsequent lecture in Salem, Massachusetts, communication was established
with Boston, eighteen miles distant, and Mr. Watson at the latter place sang "Auld Lang Syne,"
the National Anthem, and "Hail Columbia," while the audience at Salem
joined in the chorus.'Bell had overcome the difficulty which baffled
Reis, and succeeded in making the undulations of the current fit the
vibrations of the voice as a glove will fit the hand.

But
the articulation, though distinct, was feeble, and it remained for Edison, by inventing the
carbon transmitter, and Hughes, by discovering the microphone, to render
the telephone the useful and widespread apparatus which we see it
now.

Bell patented his speaking telephone in the United States at the beginning
of 1876, and by a strange coincidence, Mr. Elisha Gray applied on the same
day for another patent of a similar kind. Gray's transmitter is supposed
to have been suggested by the very old device known as the'lovers'telephone,'in
which two diaphragms are joined by a taut string, and in speaking
against one the voice is conveyed through the string, solely by mechanical
vibration, to the other.

Gray employed electricity, and varied the strength of the current in conformity with the voice
by causing the diaphragm in vibrating to dip a metal probe attached to its centre more or less
deep into a well of conducting liquid in circuit with the line. As the current passed from the
probe through the liquid to the line a greater or less thickness
of liquid intervened as the probe vibrated up and down, and thus
the strength of the current was regulated by the resistance offered
to the passage of the current.

His receiver was an electro-magnet having an iron plate as an armature capable of vibrating under
the attractions of the varying current. But Gray allowed his idea to slumber, whereas Bell
continued to perfect his apparatus.

However, when Bell achieved an unmistakable success, Gray brought a suit against him, which resulted in a
compromise, one public company acquiring both patents. Bell's invention has been contested over
and over again, and more than one claimant for the honour and reward
of being the original inventor of the telephone have appeared.

The most interesting case was that of Signor Antonio Meucci, an Italian emigrant, who produced a
mass of evidence to show that in 1849, while in Havanna, Cuba, he experimented with the view of transmitting
speech by the electric current. He continued his researches in 1852-3, and subsequently at Staten
Island, U. S.; and in 1860 deputed a friend visiting Europe to interest people
in his invention.

In 1871 he filed a caveat in the United States Patent Office, and tried to get Mr. Grant, President
of the New York District Telegraph Company, to give the apparatus
a trial.

Ill-health and poverty, consequent on an injury due to an explosion on board the Staten Island
ferry boat Westfield, retarded his experiments, and prevented him from completing his patent.
Meucci's experimental apparatus was exhibited at the Philadelphia Exhibition of 1884, and attracted
much attention. But the evidence he adduces in support of His early claims is that of persons ignorant
of electrical science, and the model shown was not complete. The caveat of 1871 is indeed a reliable
document; but unfortunately for him it is not quite clear from it whether he employed a'lovers'telephone,'with
a wire instead of a string, and joined a battery to it in the hope of enhancing the effect.'I employ,'he
says,'the well known conducting effect of continuous metallic conductors as a medium for sound,
and increase the effect by electrically insulating both the conductor
and the parties who are communicating.

It forms a speaking telegraph without the necessity of any hollow tube.'In connection with the telephone
he used an electric alarm. It is by no means evident from this description that Meucci had devised
a practicable speaking telephone; but he may have been the first to employ electricity in connection with the
transmission of speech. [Meucci is dead.]'This crowning marvel of the electric telegraph,'as Sir
William Thomson happily expressed it, was followed by another invention in some respects even more
remarkable.

During the winter of 1878 Professor Bell was in England, and while lecturing
at the Royal Institution, London, he conceived the idea of the photophone.
It was known that crystalline selenium is a substance peculiarly
sensitive to light, for when a ray strikes it an electric current
passes far more easily through it than if it were kept in the dark.

It therefore occurred to Professor Bell that if a telephone were connected in circuit with
the current, and the ray of light falling on the selenium was eclipsed by means of the vibrations
of sound, the current would undulate in keeping with the light, and the telephone would emit a corresponding
note.

In this way it might be literally possible'to hear a shadow fall athwart the stillness.'He was
not the first to entertain the idea, for in the summer of 1878, one'L.
F. W.,'writing from Kew on June 3 to the scientific journal NATURE
describes an arrangement of the kind.

To Professor Bell, in conjunction with Mr. Summer Tainter, belongs the honour of having, by dint of patient
thought and labour, brought the photophone into material existence.

By constructing sensitive selenium cells through which the current passed, then directing a powerful
beam of light upon them, and occulting it by a rotary screen, he was able to vary the strength
of the current in such a manner as to elicit musical tones from the
telephone in circuit with the cells.

Moreover, by reflecting the beam from a mirror upon the cells, and
vibrating the mirror by the action of the voice, he was able to reproduce
the spoken words in the telephone. In both cases the only connecting
line between the transmitting screen or mirror and the receiving cells
and telephone was the ray of light.

With this apparatus, which reminds us of the invocation to Apollo
in the MARTYR OF ANTIOCH--'Lord of the speaking lyre, That with a
touch of fire Strik'st music which delays the charmed spheres.'Professor
Bell has accomplished the curious feat of speaking along a beam of
sunshine 830 feet long.

The apparatus consisted of a transmitter with a mouthpiece, conveying the sound of the voice to
a silvered diaphragm or mirror, which reflected the vibratory beam through a lens towards the selenium
receiver, which was simply a parabolic reflector, in the focus of which was placed the selenium
cells connected in circuit with a battery and a pair of telephones, one for each ear. The transmitter
was placed in the top of the Franklin schoolhouse, at Washington,
and the receiver in the window of Professor Bell's laboratory in L Street.'It
was impossible,'says the inventor,'to converse by word of mouth across
that distance; and while I was observing Mr. Tainter, on the top
of the schoolhouse, almost blinded by the light which was coming in
at the window of my laboratory, and vainly trying to understand the
gestures he was making to me at that great distance, the thought occurred
to me to listen to the telephones connected with the selenium receiver.

Mr. Tainter saw me disappear from the window, and at once spoke to the transmitter. I heard him
distinctly say, "Mr. Bell, if you hear what I say, come to the window
and wave your hat!"

It is needless to say with what gusto I obeyed.'The spectroscope has demonstrated the truth of the
poet, who said that'light is the voice of the stars,'and we have it on the authority of Professor Bell
and M. Janssen, the celebrated astronomer, that the changing brightness
of the photosphere, as produced by solar hurricanes, has produced
a feeble echo in the photophone.

Pursuing these researches, Professor Bell discovered that not only the selenium cell, but simple
discs of wood, glass, metal, ivory, india-rubber, and so on, yielded
a distinct note when the intermittent ray of light fell upon them.

Crystals of sulphate of copper, chips of pine, and even tobacco-smoke, in a test-tube held before
the beam, emitted a musical tone.

With a thin disc of vulcanite as receiver, the dark heat rays which pass through an opaque screen
were found to yield a note. Even the outer ear is itself a receiver,
for when the intermittent beam is focussed in the cavity a faint musical
tone is heard. Another research of Professor Bell was that in which
he undertook to localise the assassin's bullet in the body of the lamented
President Garfield.

In 1879 Professor Hughes brought out his beautiful induction balance, and the following year
Professor Bell, who had already worked in the same field, consulted him by telegraph as to the
best mode of applying the balance to determining the place of the
bullet, which had hitherto escaped the probes of the President's physicians.
Professor Hughes advised him by telegraph, and with this and other
assistance an apparatus was devised which indicated the locality of the
ball. A full account of his experiments was given in a paper read
before the American Association for the Advancement of Science in
August, 1882.

Professor Bell continues to reside in the United States, of which
he is a naturalised citizen.

He is married to a daughter of Mr. Gardiner G. Hubbard, who in 1860, when she was four years of age,
lost her hearing by an illness, but has learned to converse by the
Horace-Mann system of watching the lips.

Both he and his father-in-law (who had a pecuniary interest in his patents) have made princely
fortunes by the introduction of the telephone. CHAPTER IX. THOMAS ALVA EDISON. Thomas Alva Edison,
the most famous inventor of his time and country, was born at Milan, Erie
County, Ohio, in the United States, on February 11, 1847.

His pedigree has been traced for two centuries to a family of prosperous millers in Holland, some
of whom emigrated to America in 1730. Thomas, his great-grandfather, was an officer of a bank in Manhattan
Island during the Revolution, and his signature is extant on the old notes of the American currency.
Longevity seems a characteristic of the strain, for Thomas lived to the patriarchal term of
102, his son to 103, and Samuel, the father of the inventor, is, we
understand, a brisk and hale old man of eighty-six.

Born at Digby, in the county of Annapolis, Nova Scotia, on August 16, 1804, Samuel was apprenticed
to a tailor, but in his manhood he forsook the needle to engage in
the lumber trade, and afterwards in grain.

He resided for a time in Canada, where, at Vienna, he was married to Miss Nancy Elliott, a popular
teacher in the high school. She was of Scotch descent, and born in Chenango County, New York, on January
10, 1810. After his marriage he removed, in 1837, to Detroit, Michigan, and the following year
settled in Milan. In his younger days Samuel Edison was a man of
fine appearance. He stood 6 feet 2 inches in his stockings, and even at
the age of sixty-four he was known to outjump 260 soldiers of a regiment
quartered at Fort Gratiot, in Michigan.

His wife was a fine-looking woman, intelligent, well-educated, and a social favourite. The
inventor probably draws his physical endurance from his father, and his intellect from his mother.
Milan is situated on the Huron River, about ten miles from the lake,
and was then a rising town of 3,000 inhabitants, mostly occupied
with the grain and timber trade.

Mr. Edison dwelt in a plain cottage with a low fence in front, which
stood beside the roadway under the shade of one or two trees.

The child was neither pale nor prematurely thoughtful; he was rosy-cheeked, laughing, and chubby.
He liked to ramble in the woods, or play on the banks of the river, and could repeat the songs
of the boatmen ere he was five years old.

Still he was fond of building little roads with planks, and scooping out canals or caverns in
the sand.

An amusing anecdote is imputed to his sister, Mrs. Homer Page, of
Milan.

Having been told one day that a goose hatches her goslings by the warmth of her body, the child was missed,
and subsequently found in the barn curled up in a nest beside a quantity of eggs! The Lake Shore
Railway having injured the trade of Milan, the family removed to Port
Huron, in Michigan, when Edison was about seven years old.

Here they lived in an old-fashioned white frame-house, surrounded by a grove, and commanding a fine
view of the broad river, with the Canadian hills beyond. His mother undertook his education, and with the
exception of two months he never went to school. She directed his opening mind to the acquisition
of knowledge, and often read aloud to the family in the evening. She
and her son were a loving pair, and it is pleasant to know that although
she died on April 9, 1871, before he finally emerged from his difficulties,
her end was brightened by the first rays of his coming glory.

Mr. Edison tells us that his son never had any boyhood in the ordinary sense, his early playthings
being steam-engines and the mechanical powers. But it is like enough that he trapped a wood-chuck now
and then, or caught a white-fish with the rest. He was greedy of knowledge, and by the age of ten
had read the PENNY ENCYCLOPAEDIA; Hume's HISTORY OF ENGLAND; Dubigne's HISTORY OF THE REFORMATION;
Gibbon's DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, and Sears'HISTORY OF THE WORLD. His father, we
are told, encouraged his love of study by making him a small present
for every book he read.

At the age of twelve he became a train-boy, or vendor of candy, fruit,
and journals to the passengers on the Grand Trunk Railway, between
Port Huron and Detroit.

The post enabled him to sleep at home, and to extend his reading by the public library at Detroit.
Like the boy Ampere, he proposed, it is said, to master the whole collection, shelf by shelf, and worked
his way through fifteen feet of the bottom one before he began to select his fare. Even the
PRINCIPIA of Newton never daunted him; and if he did not understand
the problems which have puzzled some of the greatest minds, he read
them religiously, and pressed on.

Burton's ANATOMY OF MELANCHOLY, Ure's DICTIONARY OF CHEMISTRY, did
not come amiss; but in Victor Hugo's LES MISERABLES and THE TOILERS
OF THE SEA he found a treasure after his own heart.

Like Ampere, too, he was noted for a memory which retained many of the facts thus impressed
upon it, as the sounds are printed on a phonogram. The boy student was also a keen man of
business, and his pursuit of knowledge in the evening did not sap his enterprises of the day.
He soon acquired a virtual monopoly for the sale of newspapers on
the line, and employed four boy assistants.

His annual profits amounted to about 500 dollars, which were a substantial aid to his parents. To
increase the sale of his papers, he telegraphed the headings of the war news to the stations in advance
of the trains, and placarded them to tempt the passengers.

Ere long he conceived the plan of publishing a newspaper of his own. Having bought a quantity
of old type at the office of the DETROIT FREE PRESS, he installed
it in a spingless car, or'caboose'of the train meant for a smoking-room,
but too uninviting to be much used by the passengers.

Here he set the type, and printed a smallsheet about a foot square by pressing it with his hand.
The GRAND TRUNK HERALD, as he called it, was a weekly organ, price
three cents, containing a variety of local news, and gossip of the
line.

It was probably the only journal ever published on a railway train; at all events with a boy for
editor and staff, printer and'devil,'publisher and hawker.

Mr. Robert Stephenson, then building the tubular bridge at Montreal, was taken with the venture,
and ordered an extra edition for his own use. The London TIMES correspondent also noticed the paper
as a curiosity of journalism. This was a foretaste of notoriety.

Unluckily, however, the boy did not keep his scientific and literary work apart, and the smoking-car
was transformed into a laboratory as well as a printing house. Having procured a copy of Fresenius'QUALITIVE
ANALYSIS and some old chemical gear; he proceeded to improve his leisure
by making experiments.

One day, through an extra jolt of the car, a bottle of phosphorus broke on the floor, and the car
took fire.

The incensed conductor of the train, after boxing his ears, evicted
him with all his chattels.



A train whistled for the little station of Bernalillo, and soon she saw its headlight paint
the squat houses that had before been hidden behind the creeping dusk. Ramon was late in coming
and for one breath she caught herself hoping that he would not come at all. But immediately
she remembered the love words he had taught her, and smiled her inscrutable little smile that
had now a tinge of sadness. Perhaps, she thought wishfully, Ramon had come on the train from
Albuquerque. Perhaps he had a horse in the town, and would ride out and meet her here where
he had told her to wait.

The train shrieked and painted swiftly hill and embankment and little adobe huts and a corral
full of huddled sheep, and went churning away to the northeast. Annie-Many-Ponies followed
its course absently with her eyes until the last winking light from its windows and the last
wisp of smoke was hidden behind hills and trees. The little black dog finished the rabbit,
nosed its tracks back to where it had hopped out of the brush, and came back and curled up
at the feet of his mistress, licking his lips and again his travel-sore paws. In a moment,
feeling in his dumb way her loneliness, perhaps, he reached up and laid his pink tongue caressingly
upon her brown hand.

Dark came softly and with it a noisy wind that whistled and murmured and at last, growing more
boisterous as the night deepened, whooped over her bead and tossed wildly the branches of a
clump of trees that grew near. Annie-Many-Ponies listened to the wind and thought it a brother,
perhaps, of the night wind that came to the Dakota prairies and caroused there until dawn bade
it be still. Too red the blood of her people ran in her veins for her to be afraid of the night,
even though she peopled it with dim shapes of her fancy.

After a long while the wind grew chill. Annie-Many-Ponies shivered, and then rose and went
to the horse and, reaching into the bundle which was still bound to the saddle, she worked
a plaid shawl loose from the other things and pulled it out and wrapped it close around her
and pulled it over her head like a cowl. Then she went back and sat down against the bowlder,
waiting, with the sublime patience of her kind, for Ramon.

Until the wind hushed, listening for the dawn, she sat there and waited. At her feet the little
black dog slept with his nose folded between his front paws over which he whimpered sometimes
in his dreams. At every little sound all through--the night Annie-Many-Ponies had listened,
thinking that at last here came Ramon to take her to the priest, but for the first time since
she had stolen out on the mesa to meet him, Ramon did not keep the tryst--and this was to be
their marriage meeting! Annie-Many-Ponies grew very still and voiceless in her heart, as if
her very soul waited. She did not even speculate upon what the future would be like if Ramon
never came. She was waiting.

Then, just before the sky lightened, someone stepped cautiously along a little path that led
through rocks and bushes back into the hills. Annie-Many Ponies turned her face that way and
listened. In the evening, while he was sitting in an arm-chair, very quiet and calm, a change
suddenly came over his face, and he died like one who falls asleep. Heart disease of long standing,
aggravated by the fall, was the immediate cause; but the opinion has been expressed by one who
knew him well, that Siemens'literally immolated himself on the shrine
of labour.'At any rate he did not spare himself, and his intense
devotion to his work proved fatal.

Every day was a busy one with Siemens. His secretary was with him in his residence by nine o'clock
nearly every morning, except on Sundays, assisting him in work for
one society or another, the correction of proofs, or the dictation
of letters giving official or scientific advice, and the preparation
of lectures or patent specifications.

Later on, he hurried across the Park'almost at racing speed,'to his offices at Westminster, where
the business of the Landore-Siemens Steel Company and the Electrical Works
of Messrs. Siemens Brothers and Company was transacted.

As chairman of these large undertakings, and principal inventor of the processes and systems
carried out by them, he had a hundred things to attend to in connection
with them, visitors to see, and inquiries to answer.

In the afternoon and evenings he was generally engaged at council meetings of the learned societies,
or directory meetings of the companies in which he was interested. He was a man who took little
or no leisure, and though he never appeared to over-exert himself,
few men could have withstood the strain so long.

Siemens was buried on Monday, November 26, in Kensal Green Cemetery. The interment was preceded
by a funeral service held in Westminster Abbey, and attended by representatives of the numerous
learned societies of which he had been a conspicuous member, by many leading men in all branches
of science, and also by a large body of other friends and admirers, who thus united in doing honour
to his memory, and showing their sense of the loss which all classes
had sustained by his death.

Siemens was above all things a'labourer.'Unhasting, unresting labour was the rule of his life; and
the only relaxation, not to say recreation, which he seems to have
allowed himself was a change of task or the calls of sleep.

This natural activity was partly due to the spur of his genius, and partly to his energetic
spirit. For a man of his temperament science is always holding out new problems to solve and
fresh promises of triumph. All he did only revealed more work to be done; and many a scheme lies
buried in his grave.

Though Siemens was a man of varied powers, and occasionally gave himself to pure speculation in
matters of science, his mind was essentially practical; and it was
rather as an engineer than a discoverer that he was great.

Inventions are associated with his name, not laws or new phenomena. Standing on the borderland between
pure and applied science, his sympathies were yet with the latter; and as the outgoing President
of the British Association at Southport, in 1882, he expressed the opinion that'in the great
workshop of nature there are no lines of demarcation to be drawn between the most exalted speculation
and common-place practice.'The truth of this is not to be gain-said, but it is the utterance
of an engineer who judges the merit of a thing by its utility. He objected to the pursuit of science
apart from its application, and held that the man of science does most for his kind who shows the world
how to make use of scientific results.

Such a view was natural on the part of Siemens, who was himself a living representative of the
type in question; but it was not the view of such a man as Faraday
or Newton, whose pure aim was to discover truth, well knowing that
it would be turned to use thereafter.

In Faraday's eyes the new principle was a higher boon than the appliance
which was founded upon it.

Tried by his own standard, however, Siemens was a conspicuous benefactor of his fellow-men; and
at the time of his decease he had become our leading authority upon applied science. In electricity
he was a pioneer of the new advances, and happily lived to obtain
at least a Pisgah view of the great future which evidently lies before
that pregnant force.

If we look for the secret of Siemens's remarkable success, we shall assuredly find it in an inventive
mind, coupled with a strong commercial instinct, and supported by a physical energy which enabled
him to labour long and incessantly.

It is told that when a mechanical problem was brought to him for solution, he would suggest
six ways of overcoming the difficulty, three of which would be impracticable,
the others feasible, and one at least successful.

From this we gather that his mind was fertile in expedients. The large works which he established
are also a proof that, unlike most inventors, he did not lose his interest in an invention, or
forsake it for another before it had been brought into the market. On the contrary, he was never
satisfied with an invention until it was put into practical operation.

To the ordinary observer, Siemens did not betray any signs of the untiring energy that possessed
him. His countenance was usually serene and tranquil, as that of a thinker rather than a man of
action; his demeanour was cool and collected; his words few and well-chosen. In his manner, as
well as in his works, there was no useless waste of power.

To the young he was kind and sympathetic, hearing, encouraging, advising;
a good master, a firm friend.

His very presence had a calm and orderly influence on those about him, which when he presided
at a Public meeting insensibly introduced a gracious tone. The diffident took heart before him,
and the presumptuous were checked. The virtues which accompanied
him into public life did not desert him in private.

In losing him, we have lost not only a powerful intellect, but a bright example, and an amiable
man.

CHAPTER VI. FLEEMING JENKIN.

The late Fleeming Jenkin, Professor of Engineering in Edinburgh University,
was remarkable for the versatility of his talent.

Known to the world as the inventor of Telpherage, he was an electrician and cable engineer
of the first rank, a lucid lecturer, and a good linguist, a skilful critic, a writer and actor
of plays, and a clever sketcher. In popular parlance, Jenkin was
a dab at everything.

His father, Captain Charles Jenkin, R. N., was the second son of Mr. Charles Jenkin, of Stowting
Court, himself a naval officer, who had taken part in the actions
with De Grasse.

Stowting Court, a small estate some six miles north of Hythe, had been in the family since
the year 1633, and was held of the Crown by the feudal service of
six men and a constable to defend the sea-way at Sandgate.

Certain Jenkins had settled in Kent during the reign of Henry VIII.,
and claimed to have come from Yorkshire.

They bore the arms of Jenkin ap Phillip of St. Melans, who traced his descent from'Guaith Voeth,'Lord
of Cardigan.

While cruising in the West Indies, carrying specie, or chasing buccaneers and slavers, Charles Jenkin, junior,
was introduced to the family of a fellow midshipman, son of Mr. Jackson,
Custos Rotulorum of Kingston, Jamaica, and fell in love with Henrietta
Camilla, the youngest daughter.

Mr. Jackson came of a Yorkshire stock, said to be of Scottish origin, and Susan, his wife, was
a daughter of [Sir] Colin Campbell, a Greenock merchant, who inherited but never assumed the baronetcy
of Auchinbreck.

[According to BURKE'S PEERAGE (1889), the title went to another branch.] Charles Jenkin, senior, died
in 1831, leaving his estate so heavily encumbered, through extravagance and high living, that only the
mill-farm was saved for John, the heir, an easy-going, unpractical man, with a turn for abortive
devices. His brother Charles married soon afterwards, and with the help of his wife's money bought
in most of Stowting Court, which, however, yielded him no income
until late in life.

Charles was a useful officer and an amiable gentleman; but lacking
energy and talent, he never rose above the grade of Commander, and
was superseded after forty-five years of service.

He is represented as a brave, single-minded, and affectionate sailor, who on one occasion saved
several men from suffocation by a burning cargo at the risk of his own life. Henrietta Camilla
Jackson, his wife, was a woman of a strong and energetic character. Without beauty of countenance,
she possessed the art of pleasing, and in default of genius she was
endowed with a variety of gifts.

She played the harp, sang, and sketched with native art. At seventeen, on hearing Pasta sing in
Paris, she sought out the artist and solicited lessons.

Pasta, on hearing her sing, encouraged her, and recommended a teacher. She wrote novels, which, however,
failed to make their mark. At forty, on losing her voice, she took to playing the piano, practising
eight hours a day; and when she was over sixty she began the study
of Hebrew.

The only child of this union was Henry Charles Fleeming Jenkin, generally called Fleeming Jenkin,
after Admiral Fleeming, one of his father's patrons. He was born on March 25, 1833, in a building
of the Government near Dungeness, his father at that time being on the coast-guard service.
His versatility was evidently derived from his mother, who, owing to her husband's frequent absence
at sea and his weaker character, had the principal share in the boy's
earlier training.

Jenkin was fortunate in having an excellent education. His mother took him to the south of Scotland,
where, chiefly at Barjarg, she taught him drawing among other things, and allowed him to ride
his pony on the moors. He went to school at Jedburgh, and afterwards to the Edinburgh Academy,
where he carried off many prizes. Among his schoolfellows were Clerk Maxwell and Peter Guthrie
Tait, the friends of his maturer life.

On the retirement of his father the family removed to Frankfort in
1847, partly from motives of economy and partly for the boy's instruction.

Here Fleeming and his father spent a pleasant time together, sketching
old castles, and observing the customs of the peasantry.

Fleeming was precocious, and at thirteen had finished a romance of three hundred lines in heroic
measure, a Scotch novel, and innumerable poetical fragments, none of which are now extant. He learned
German in Frankfort; and on the family migrating to Paris the following year, he studied French
and mathematics under a certain M. Deluc. While here, Fleeming witnessed the outbreak of the
Revolution of 1848, and heard the first shot.

In a letter written to an old schoolfellow while the sound still rang in his ears, and his
hand trembled with excitement, he gives a boyish account of the circumstances. The family were
living in the Rue Caumartin, and on the evening of February 23 he and his father were taking
a walk along the boulevards, which were illuminated for joy at the resignation of M. Guizot.
They passed the residence of the Foreign Minister, which was guarded with troops, and further
on encountered a band of rioters marching along the street with torches,
and singing the Marseillaise.

After them came a rabble of men and women of all sorts, rich and poor, some of them armed
with sticks and sabres. They turned back with these, the boy delighted with the spectacle,'I
remarked to papa'(he writes),'I would not have missed the scene for anything. I might never see such
a splendid one; when PONG went one shot. Every face went pale: R-- R-- R-- R-- R went the whole
detachment [of troops], and the whole crowd of gentlemen and ladies
turned and cut.

Such a scene!--- ladies, gentlemen, and vagabonds went sprawling in the mud, not shot but tripped
up, and those that went down could not rise-- they were trampled over.... I ran a short time straight
on and did not fall, then turned down a side street, ran fifty yards, and felt tolerably safe;
looked for papa; did not see him; so walked on quickly, giving the
news as I went.'Next day, while with his father in the Place de la
Concorde, which was filled with troops, the gates of the Tuileries
Garden were suddenly flung open, and out galloped a troop of cuirassiers,
in the midst of whom was an open carriage containing the king and
queen, who had abdicated.

Then came the sacking of the Tuileries, the people mounting a cannon on the roof, and firing blank
cartridges to testify their joy.'It was a sight to see a palace sacked'(wrote the boy),'and armed
vagabonds firing out of the windows, and throwing shirts, papers, and dresses of all kinds
out.... They are not rogues, the French; they are not stealing, burning,
or doing much harm.'[MEMOIR OF FLEEMING JENKIN, by R. L. Stevenson.]
The Revolution obliged the Jenkins to leave Paris, and they proceeded
to Genoa, where they experienced another, and Mrs. Jenkin, with her
son and sister-in-law, had to seek the protection of a British vessel
in the harbour, leaving their house stored with the property of their
friends, and guarded by the Union Jack and Captain Jenkin.

At Genoa, Fleeming attended the University, and was its first Protestant student. Professor Bancalari
was the professor of natural philosophy, and lectured on electro-magnetism, his physical laboratory
being the best in Italy. Jenkin took the degree of M. A. with first-class honours, his special subject
having been electro-magnetism.

The questions in the examinations were put in Latin, and answered in Italian. Fleeming also attended an
Art school in the city, and gained a silver medal for a drawing from one of Raphael's cartoons. His holidays
were spent in sketching, and his evenings in learning to play the piano; or, when permissible,
at the theatre or opera-house; for ever since hearing Rachel recite
the Marseillaise at the Theatre Francaise, he had conceived a taste
for acting.

In 1850 Fleeming spent some time in a Genoese locomotive shop under Mr.
Philip Taylor, of Marseilles; but on the death of his Aunt Anna,
who lived with them, Captain Jenkin took his family to England, and
settled in Manchester, where the lad, in 1851, was apprenticed to
mechanical engineering at the works of Messrs. Fairbairn, and from
half-past eight in the morning till six at night had, as he says,'to
file and chip vigorously, in a moleskin suit, and infernally dirty.'At
home he pursued his studies, and was for a time engaged with Dr. Bell
in working out a geometrical method of arriving at the proportions
of Greek architecture.

His stay amidst the smoke and bustle of Manchester, though in striking contrast to his life in
Genoa, was on the whole agreeable. He liked his work, had the good spirits of youth, and made some
pleasant friends, one of them the authoress, Mrs. Gaskell.

Even as a boy he was disputatious, and his mother tells of his having overcome a Consul at Genoa in
a political discussion when he was only sixteen,'simply from being
well-informed on the subject, and honest.

He is as true as steel,'she writes,'and for no one will he bend right or left... Do not fancy him a Bobadil;
he is only a very true, candid boy. I am so glad he remains in all respects but information
a great child.'On leaving Fairbairn's he was engaged for a time on
a survey for the proposed Lukmanier Railway, in Switzerland, and in
1856 he entered the engineering works of Mr. Penn, at Greenwich, as
a draughtsman, and was occupied on the plans of a vessel designed
for the Crimean war.

He did not care for his berth, and complained of its late hours, his rough comrades, with whom he had
to be'as little like himself as possible,'and his humble lodgings,'across a dirty green and
through some half-built streets of two-storied houses.... Luckily,'he adds,'I am fond of my profession,
or I could not stand this life.'There was probably no real hardship in his present situation,
and thousands of young engineers go through the like experience at the outset of their career
without a murmur,'and even with enjoyment; but Jenkin had been his
mother's pet until then, with a girl's delicate training, and probably
felt the change from home more keenly on that account.

At night he read engineering and mathematics, or Carlyle and the poets, and cheered his drooping
spirits with frequent trips to London to see his mother. Another social pleasure was his visits
to the house of Mr. Alfred Austin, a barrister, who became permanent secretary to Her Majesty's Office
of Works and Public Buildings, and retired in 1868 with the title of C. B. His wife, Eliza Barron,
was the youngest daughter of Mr. E. Barron, a gentleman of Norwich, the
son of a rich saddler, or leather-seller, in the Borough, who, when
a child, had been patted on the head, in his father's shop, by Dr.
Johnson, while canvassing for Mr. Thrale.

Jenkin had been introduced to the Austins by a letter from Mrs. Gaskell, and was charmed with the
atmosphere of their choice home, where intellectual conversation was happily united with kind
and courteous manners, without any pretence or affectation.'Each
of the Austins,'says Mr. Stevenson, in his memoir of Jenkin, to which
we are much indebted,'was full of high spirits; each practised something
of the same repression; no sharp word was uttered in the house.

The same point of honour ruled them: a guest was sacred, and stood within the pale from criticism.'In
short, the Austins were truly hospitable and cultured, not merely so in form and appearance.
It was a rare privilege and preservative for a solitary young man in
Jenkin's position to have the entry into such elevating society,
and he appreciated his good fortune.

Annie Austin, their only child, had been highly educated, and knew Greek among other things.
Though Jenkin loved and admired her parents, he did not at first care for Annie, who, on her
part, thought him vain, and by no means good-looking. Mr. Stevenson hints that she vanquished his
stubborn heart by correcting a'false quantity'of his one day, for he was the man to reflect over
a correction, and'admire the castigator.'Be this as it may, Jenkin by degrees fell deeply in
love with her. He was poor and nameless, and this made him diffident; but the liking of her
parents for him gave him hope. Moreover, he had entered the service
of Messrs. Liddell and Gordon, who were engaged in the new work of
submarine telegraphy, which satisfied his aspirations, and promised
him a successful career.

With this new-born confidence in his future, he solicited the Austins for leave to court their daughter,
and it was not withheld.

Mrs. Austin consented freely, and Mr. Austin only reserved the right to inquire into his character.
Neither of them mentioned his income or prospects, and Jenkin, overcome by their disinterestedness,
exclaimed in one of his letters,'Are these people the same as other people?'Thus permitted, he
addressed himself to Annie, and was nearly rejected for his pains. Miss Austin seems to have
resented his courtship of her parents first; but the mother's favour, and his own spirited behaviour,
saved him, and won her consent. Then followed one of the happiest epochs in Jenkin's life. After
leaving Penn's he worked at railway engineering for a time under Messrs. Liddell and Gordon;
and, in 1857, became engineer to Messrs. R. S. Newall& Co., of Gateshead, who shared the work
of making the first Atlantic cable with Messrs. Glass, Elliott& Co., of Greenwich. Jenkin was busy
designing and fitting up machinery for cableships, and making electrical experiments.'I am half
crazy with work,'he wrote to his betrothed;'I like it though: it's
like a good ball, the excitement carries you through.'Again he wrote,'My
profession gives me all the excitement and interest I ever hope for.'...'I
am at the works till ten, and sometimes till eleven.

But I have a nice office to sit in, with a fire to myself, and bright brass scientific instruments
all round me, and books to read, and experiments to make, and enjoy myself amazingly. I find the
study of electricity so entertaining that I am apt to neglect my
other work.'...'What shall I compare them to,'he writes of some electrical
experiments,'a new song? or a Greek play?'In the spring of 1855 he
was fitting out the s. s. Elba, at Birkenhead, for his first telegraph
cruise.

It appears that in 1855 Mr. Henry Brett attempted to lay a cable across the Mediterranean between Cape
Spartivento, in the south of Sardinia, and a point near Bona, on the coast of Algeria. It was
a gutta-percha cable of six wires or conductors, and manufactured by Messrs. Glass& Elliott,
of Greenwich-- a firm which afterwards combined with the Gutta-Percha Company, and became the
existing Telegraph Construction and Maintenance Company. Mr. Brett
laid the cable from the Result, a sailing ship in tow, instead of
a more manageable steamer; and, meeting with 600 fathoms of water
when twenty-five miles from land, the cable ran out so fast that a
tangled skein came up out of the hold, and the line had to be severed.

Having only 150 miles on board to span the whole distance of 140 miles, he grappled the lost
cable near the shore, raised it, and'under-run'or passed it over the ship, for some twenty
miles, then cut it, leaving the seaward end on the bottom. He then spliced the ship's cable to the
shoreward end and resumed his paying-out; but after seventy miles
in all were laid, another rapid rush of cable took place, and Mr.
Brett was obliged to cut and abandon the line.

Another attempt was made the following year, but with no better success. Mr. Brett then tried to lay
a three-wire cable from the steamer Dutchman, but owing to the deep water-- in some places 1500 fathoms--
its egress was so rapid, that when he came to a few miles from Galita, his destination on the
Algerian coast, he had not enough cable to reach the land. He therefore telegraphed to London for
more cable to be made and sent out, while the ship remained there holding to the end. For five days he
succeeded in doing so, sending and receiving messages; but heavy
weather came on, and the cable parted, having, it is said, been chafed
through by rubbing on the bottom.

After that Mr. Brett went home. It was to recover the lost cable of these expeditions that the Elba
was got ready for sea. Jenkin had fitted her out the year before for laying the Cagliari to Malta
and Corfu cables; but on this occasion she was better equipped. She
had a new machine for picking up the cable, and a sheave or pulley
at the bows for it to run over, both designed by Jenkin, together
with a variety of wooden buoys, ropes, and chains.

Mr. Liddell, assisted by Mr. F. C. Webb and Fleeming Jenkin, were
in charge of the expedition.

The latter had nothing to do with the electrical work, his care being
the deck machinery for raising the cable; but it entailed a good deal
of responsibility, which was flattering and agreeable to a young man of
his parts.'I own I like responsibility,'he wrote to Miss Austin, while
fitting up the vessel;'it flatters one; and then, your father might
say, I have more to gain than lose.

Moreover, I do like this bloodless, painless combat with wood and iron, forcing the stubborn rascals
to do my will, licking the clumsy cubs into an active shape, seeing the child of to-day's thought
working to-morrow in full vigour at his appointed task.'Another letter, dated May 17, gives a picture
of the start.'Not a sailor will join us till the last moment; and then, just as the ship forges
ahead through the narrow pass, beds and baggage fly on board, the men, half tipsy, clutch at the
rigging, the captain swears, the women scream and sob, the crowd cheer and laugh, while one or two
pretty little girls stand still and cry outright, regardless of all eyes.'The Elba arrived at Bona
on June 3, and Jenkin landed at Fort Genova, on Cape Hamrah, where some Arabs were building a land line.'It
was a strange scene,'he writes,'far more novel than I had imagined; the high, steep bank covered
with rich, spicy vegetation, of which I hardly knew one plant. The dwarf palm, with fan-like leaves,
growing about two feet high, forms the staple verdure.'After dining in Fort Genova, he had nothing
to do but watch the sailors ordering the Arabs about under the'generic term "Johnny."'He began
to tire of the scene, although, as he confesses, he had willingly
paid more money for less strange and lovely sights.

Jenkin was not a dreamer; he disliked being idle, and if he had had a pencil he would have amused
himself in sketching what he saw. "They won't tackle coming across that bare hollow, even if they can get
down into it without breaking their necks. Happy, lead your horse in here between these rocks
where mine is. Bud, see if you can get the pack-horses over there outa sight among those bushes
and rocks. We'll hold 'em off while you fix the horses--can't let ourselves be set afoot out here!"

"I-should-say--NOT!" Andy Green punctuated the sentence with a shot or two. "Say, I wish they'd
quit sneaking around in those trees that way, so a fellow could see where to shoot!"

A half hour dragged by. From the rim-rock came occasional shots, to which the besieged could
not afford to reply, they were so fully occupied with holding back those who skulked among
the trees. The horses, fancying perhaps that this was a motion-picture scene, dozed behind
their rock-and-brush shelters and switched apathetically at buzzing flies and whining bullets
alike. Their masters crouched behind their bowlders and watched catlike for some open demonstration,
and fired when they had the slightest reason to believe that they would hit something besides
scenery.

"Miguel must have upset their plans a little," Luck deduced after a lull. "They set the stage
for us down in that hollow, I guess. You can see what we'd have been up against if we had ridden
ten rods farther, out away from these rocks and bushes."

"Aw, they wouldn't dast kill a bunch uh white men!" Happy Jack protested, perhaps for his own
comfort.

"You think they wouldn't? Luck's voice was surcharged with sarcasm. What do you think they're
trying to do, then?"

"Aw, the gov'ment wouldn't STAND fer no such actions!"

"Well, by cripes, I hain't aimin' to give the gov'ment no job uh setting on my remains, investigatin'
why I was killed off!" Big Medicine asserted, and took a shot at a distant grimy Stetson to
prove he meant what he said.

"Say, they'd have had a SNAP if we'd gone on, and let these fellows back here in the trees
close up behind us!" Andy Green exclaimed suddenly, with a vividness of gesture that made Happy
Jack try to swallow his Adam's apple. "By gracious, it would have been a regular rabbit-drive
business. They could set in the shade and pick us off just as they darned pleased."

"Aw, is that there the cheerfullest thing you can think of to say?" Happy Jack was sweating,
with something more than desert heat.

"Why, no. The cheerfullest thing I can think of right now is that Mig, here, don't ride with
his eyes shut." He cast a hasty glance of gratitude toward the Native Son, who flushed under
the smooth brown of his cheeks while he fired at a moving bush a hundred yards back in the grove.

For another half hour nothing was gained or lost. The Indians fired desultorily, spatting bit&
of lead here and there among the rocks but hitting nobody. The Happy Family took a shot at
every symptom of movement in the grove, and toward the rim-rock they sent a bullet now and
then, just to assure the watchers up there that they were not forgotten, and as a hint that
caution spelled safety.

For themselves, the boys were amply protected there on the side of the Frying-pan where the
handle stretched out into the open land toward the mountain. Perhaps here was once a torrent
flowing from the basin-like hollow walled round with rock; at any rate, great bowlders were
scattered all along the rim as though spewed from the basin by some mighty force of the bygone
ages. Faraday showed that it was caused by induction between the electricity in the wire and the
earth or water surrounding it. A core, in fact, is an attenuated Leyden jar; the wire of the
core, its insulating jacket, and the soil or water around it stand
respectively for the inner tinfoil, the glass, and the outer tinfoil
of the jar.

When the wire is charged from a battery, the electricity induces an opposite charge in the
water as it travels along, and as the two charges attract each other, the exciting charge is restrained.
The speed of a signal through the conductor of a submarine cable is thus diminished by a drag
of its own making. The nature of the phenomenon was clear, but the laws which governed it were
still a mystery. It became a serious question whether, on a long cable such as that required
for the Atlantic, the signals might not be so sluggish that the work would hardly pay. Faraday
had said to Mr. Field that a signal would take'about a second,'and the American was satisfied; but
Professor Thomson enunciated the law of retardation, and cleared up
the whole matter.

He showed that the velocity of a signal through a given core was inversely proportional to
the square of the length of the core. That is to say, in any particular cable the speed of a
signal is diminished to one-fourth if the length is doubled, to one-ninth if it is trebled, to
one-sixteenth if it is quadrupled, and so on. It was now possible to calculate the time taken
by a signal in traversing the proposed Atlantic line to a minute
fraction of a second, and to design the proper core for a cable of
any given length.

The accuracy of Thomson's law was disputed in 1856 by Dr. Edward O. Wildman Whitehouse, the electrician
of the Atlantic Telegraph Company, who had misinterpreted the results of his own experiments.
Thomson disposed of his contention in a letter to the ATHENAEUM,
and the directors of the company saw that he was a man to enlist in
their adventure.

It is not enough to say the young Glasgow professor threw himself heart and soul into their
work. He descended in their midst like the very genius of electricity, and helped them out of all
their difficulties. In 1857 he published in the ENGINEER the whole theory of the mechanical forces
involved in the laying of a submarine cable, and showed that when the line is running out of the ship
at a constant speed in a uniform depth of water, it sinks in a slant or straight incline from
the point where it enters the water to that where it touches the
bottom.

To these gifts of theory, electrical and mechanical, Thomson added a practical boon in the
shape of the reflecting galvanometer, or mirror instrument. This measurer of the current was
infinitely more sensitive than any which preceded it, and enables the electrician to detect the slightest
flaw in the core of a cable during its manufacture and submersion.

Moreover, it proved the best apparatus for receiving the messages through a long cable. The Morse
and other instruments, however suitable for land lines and short cables, were all but useless
on the Atlantic line, owing to the retardation of the signals; but the mirror instrument sprang
out of Thomson's study of this phenomenon, and was designed to match it. Hence this instrument,
through being the fittest for the purpose, drove the others from the field, and allowed the
first Atlantic cables to be worked on a profitable basis.

The cable consisted of a strand of seven copper wires, one weighing
107 pounds a nautical mile or knot, covered with three coats of gutta-percha,
weighing 261 pounds a knot, and wound with tarred hemp, over which
a sheath of eighteen strands, each of seven iron wires, was laid in
a close spiral.

It weighed nearly a ton to the mile, was flexible as a rope, and able to withstand a pull of several
tons. It was made conjointly by Messrs. Glass, Elliot& Co., of Greenwich, and Messrs. R. S.
Newall& Co., of Liverpool.

The British Government promised Mr. Field a subsidy of L1, 400 a year, and the loan of ships to lay
the cable. He solicited an equal help from Congress, but a large number of the senators, actuated
by a national jealousy of England, and looking to the fact that both ends of the line were to
lie in British territory, opposed the grant.

It appeared to these far-sighted politicians that England, the hereditary foe, was'literally
crawling under the sea to get some advantage over the United States.'The Bill was only passed
by a majority of a single vote.

In the House of Representatives it encountered a similar hostility, but was ultimately signed
by President Pierce.

The Agamemnon, a British man-of-war fitted out for the purpose, took in the section made at
Greenwich, and the Niagara, an American warship, that made at Liverpool. The vessels and their
consorts met in the bay of Valentia Island, on the south-west coast
of Ireland, where on August 5, 1857, the shore end of the cable was
landed from the Niagara.

It was a memorable scene. The ships in the bay were dressed in bunting, and the Lord Lieutenant
of Ireland stood on the beach, attended by his following, to receive the end from the American
sailors. Visitors in holiday attire collected in groups to watch the operations, and eagerly
joined with his excellency in helping to pull the wire ashore. When it was landed, the Reverend
Mr. Day, of Kenmore, offered up a prayer, asking the Almighty to prosper the undertaking, Next
day the expedition sailed; but ere the Niagara had proceeded five miles on her way the shore-end
parted, and the repairing of it delayed the start for another day.

At first the Niagara went slowly ahead to avoid a mishap, but as the cable ran out easily she
increased her speed. The night fell, but hardly a soul slept. The
utmost vigilance was maintained throughout the vessel.

Apart from the noise of the paying-out machinery, there was an awful stillness on board. Men
walked about with a muffled step, or spoke in whispers, as if they
were afraid the sound of their voices would break the slender line.

It seemed as though a great and valued friend lay at the point of
death.

The submarine hill, with its dangerous slope, was passed in safety,
and the'telegraph plateau,'nearly two miles deep, was reached, when suddenly
the signals from Ireland, which told that the conductor was intact,
stopped altogether.

Professor Morse and De Sauty, the electricians, failed to restore
the communication, and the engineers were preparing to cut the cable,
when quite as suddenly the signals returned, and every face grew
bright.

A weather-beaten old sailor said,'I have watched nearly every mile of it as it came over the
side, and I would have given fifty dollars, poor man as I am, to have saved it, although I don't
expect to make anything by it when it is laid down.'But the joy was
short-lived.

The line was running out at the rate of six miles an hour, while
the vessel was only making four.

To check this waste of cable the engineer tightened the brakes; but as the stern of the ship rose
on the swell, the cable parted under the heavy strain, and the end was lost in the sea. The bad news
ran like a flash of lightning through all the ships, and produced
a feeling of sorrow and dismay.

No attempt was made to grapple the line in such deep water, and the expedition returned to England.
It was too late to try again that year, but the following summer
the Agamemnon and Niagara, after an experimental trip to the Bay of
Biscay, sailed from Plymouth on June 10 with a full supply of cable,
better gear than before, and a riper experience of the work.

They were to meet in the middle of the Atlantic, where the two halves of the cable on board of each
were to be spliced together, and while the Agamemnon payed out eastwards to Valentia Island
the Niagara was to pay out westward to Newfoundland. On her way to the
rendezvous the Agamemnon encountered a terrific gale, which lasted for
a week, and nearly proved her destruction.

On Saturday, the 26th, the middle splice was effected and the bight dropped into the deep.
The two ships got under weigh, but had not proceeded three miles when
the cable broke in the paying-out machinery of the Niagara. Another
splice, followed by a fresh start, was made during the same afternoon;
but when some fifty miles were payed out of each vessel, the current
which kept up communication between them suddenly failed owing to
the cable having snapped in the sea.

Once more the middle splice was made and lowered, and the ships parted company a third time. For
a day or two all went well; over two hundred miles of cable ran smoothly
out of each vessel, and the anxious chiefs began to indulge in hopes
of ultimate success, when the cable broke about twenty feet behind
the stern of the Agamemnon.

The expedition returned to Queenstown, and a consultation took place. Mr. Field, and Professor
Thomson, who was on board the Agamemnon, were in favour of another
trial, and it was decided to make one without delay.

The vessels left the Cove of Cork on July 17; but on this occasion there was no public enthusiasm,
and even those on board felt as if they were going on another wild goose chase. The Agamemnon was
now almost becalmed on her way to the rendezvous; but the middle splice was finished by 12.30
p. m. on July 29, 1858, and immediately dropped into the sea. The ships thereupon started, and increased
their distance, while the cable ran easily out of them. Some alarm was caused by the stoppage
of the continuity signals, but after a time they reappeared. The Niagara
deviated from the great arc of a circle on which the cable was to
be laid, and the error was traced to the iron of the cable influencing
her compass.

Hence the Gorgon, one of her consorts, was ordered to go ahead and lead the way. The Niagara passed several
icebergs, but none injured the cable, and on August 4 she arrived in Trinity Bay, Newfoundland.
At 6. a. m. next morning the shore end was landed into the telegraph-house
which had been built for its reception.

Captain Hudson, of the Niagara, then read prayers, and at one p. m.
H. M. S. Gorgon fired a salute of twenty-one guns. The Agamemnon made
an equally successful run.

About six o'clock on the first evening a huge whale was seen approaching on the starboard bow, and as
he sported in the waves, rolling and lashing them into foam, the onlookers began to fear that he might
endanger the line. Their excitement became intense as the monster heaved astern, nearer and nearer
to the cable, until his body grazed it where it sank into the water;
but happily no harm was done.

Damaged portions of the cable had to be removed in paying-out, and the stoppage of the continuity
signals raised other alarms on board. Strong head winds kept the Agamemnon back, and two American
ships which got into her course had to be warned off by firing guns. The signals from the Niagara
became very weak, but on Professor Thomson asking the electricians on board of her to increase
their battery power, they improved at once. At length, on Thursday, August, 5, the Agamemnon, with
her consort, the Valorous, arrived at Valentia Island, and the shore end was landed into the
cable-house at Knightstown by 3 p. m., and a royal salute announced
the completion of the work.

The news was received at first with some incredulity, but on being
confirmed it caused a universal joy.

On August 16 Queen Victoria sent a telegram of congratulation to President Buchanan through the
line, and expressed a hope that it would prove'an additional link between the nations whose friendship
is founded on their common interest and reciprocal esteem.'The President responded that,'it is
a triumph more glorious, because far more useful to mankind, than was ever won by conqueror on the
field of battle. May the Atlantic telegraph, under the blessing of heaven, prove to be a bond of
perpetual peace and friendship between the kindred nations, and an instrument destined by Divine
Providence to diffuse religion, civilisation, liberty, and law throughout
the world.'These messages were the signal for a fresh outburst of
enthusiasm.

Next morning a grand salute of 100 guns resounded in New York, the streets were decorated with
flags, the bells of the churches rung, and at night the city was illuminated. The Atlantic cable
was a theme of inspiration for innumerable sermons and a prodigious quantity of doggerel. Among
the happier lines were these:--'' Tis done! the angry sea consents, The nations stand no more apart;
With clasped hands the continents Feel throbbings of each other's
heart.

Speed! speed the cable! let it run A loving girdle round the earth,
Till all the nations'neath the sun Shall be as brothers of one hearth.

As brothers pledging, hand in hand, One freedom for the world abroad, One commerce over every land, One
language, and one God.'The rejoicing reached a climax in September, when a public service was held
in Trinity Church, and Mr. Field, the hero of the hour, as head and mainspring of the expedition,
received an ovation in the Crystal Palace at New York. The mayor presented
him with a golden casket as a souvenir of'the grandest enterprise
of our day and generation.'The band played'God save the Queen,'and
the whole audience rose to their feet.

In the evening there was a magnificent torchlight procession of the city firemen. That very day
the cable breathed its last. Its insulation had been failing for some days, and the only signals
which could be read were those given by the mirror galvanometer. [It
is said to have broken down while Newfoundland was vainly attempting
to inform Valentia that it was sending with THREE HUNDRED AND TWELVE
CELLS!] The reaction at this news was tremendous.

Some writers even hinted that the line was a mere hoax, and others
pronounced it a stock exchange speculation.

Sensible men doubted whether the cable had ever'spoken;'but in addition to the royal despatch,
items of daily news had passed through the wire; for instance, the
announcement of a collision between two ships, the Arabia and the
Europa, off Cape Race, Newfoundland, and an order from London, countermanding
the departure of a regiment in Canada for the seat of the Indian Mutiny,
which had come to an end.

Mr. Field was by no means daunted at the failure. He was even more eager to renew the work, since
he had come so near to success.

But the public had lost confidence in the scheme, and all his efforts
to revive the company were futile. It was not until 1864 that with
the assistance of Mr. Thomas (afterwards Lord) Brassey, and Mr. (now
Sir) John Fender, that he succeeded in raising the necessary capital.

The Glass, Elliot, and Gutta-Percha Companies were united to form the well-known Telegraph Construction
and Maintenance Company, which undertook to manufacture and lay the
new cable.

Much experience had been gained in the meanwhile. Long cables had been submerged in the Mediterranean
and the Red Sea.

The Board of Trade in 1859 had appointed a committee of experts, including Professor Wheatstone,
to investigate the whole subject, and the results were published in
a Blue-book. Profiting by these aids, an improved type of cable was
designed.

The core consisted of a strand of seven very pure copper wires weighing 300 lbs. a knot,
coated with Chatterton's compound, which is impervious to water, then covered with four layers of gutta-percha
alternating with four thin layers of the compound cementing the whole,
and bringing the weight of the insulator to 400 lbs. per knot.

This core was served with hemp saturated in a preservative solution, and on the hemp as a padding
were spirally wound eighteen single wires of soft steel, each covered with fine strands of Manilla
yam steeped in the preservative. The weight of the new cable was 35.75 cwt. per knot, or nearly
twice the weight of the old, and it was stronger in proportion. Ten years before, Mr. Marc Isambard
Brunel, the architect of the Great Eastern, had taken Mr. Field to Blackwall, where the leviathan
was lying, and said to him,'There is the ship to lay the Atlantic
cable.'She was now purchased to fulfil the mission. Her immense hull was
fitted with three iron tanks for the reception of 2,300 miles of cable,
and her decks furnished with the paying-out gear. Captain (now Sir)
James Anderson, of the Cunard steamer China, a thorough seaman, was
appointed to the command, with Captain Moriarty, R. N., as chief
navigating officer.

Mr. (afterwards Sir) Samuel Canning was engineer for the contractors,
the Telegraph Construction and Maintenance Company, and Mr. de Sauty
their electrician; Professor Thomson and Mr. Cromwell Fleetwood Varley
were the electricians for the Atlantic Telegraph Company.

The Press was ably represented by Dr. W. H. Russell, correspondent of the TIMES. The Great Eastern
took on board seven or eight thousand tons of coal to feed her fires, a prodigious quantity
of stores, and a multitude of live stock which turned her decks into a farmyard. Her crew all told
numbered 500 men.

At noon on Saturday, July 15, 1865, the Great Eastern left the Nore for Foilhommerum Bay, Valentia Island,
where the shore end was laid by the Caroline.

At 5.30 p. m. on Sunday, July 23, amidst the firing of cannon and the cheers of the telegraph fleet,
she started on her voyage at a speed of about four knots an hour.

The weather was fine, and all went well until next morning early,
when the boom of a gun signalled that a fault had broken out in the
cable. It turned out that a splinter of iron wire had penetrated
the core.

More faults of the kind were discovered, and as they always happened in the same watch, there was
a suspicion of foul play. In repairing one of these on July 31, after 1,062 miles had been payed
out, the cable snapped near the stern of the ship, and the end was lost.'All
is over,'quietly observed Mr. Canning; and though spirited attempts were
made to grapple the sunken line in two miles of water, they failed
to recover it.

The Great Eastern steamed back to England, where the indomitable Mr. Field issued another prospectus,
and formed the Anglo-American Telegraph Company, with a capital of L600, 000, to lay a new cable and
complete the broken one.

 After that
he mumbled a good deal of it, the longer words arresting his finger while he struggled with
the syllables. But he got the sense of it nevertheless, as Luck and Miguel knew by the version
he gave in Spanish to the old Indian, with now and then a Navajo word to help out.

When he came to the place where Ramon Chavez and Luis Rojas were named as the thieves, he gave
a grunt and looked up at Luck and Miguel, read in, their faces that these were the men they
sought, and grinned.

"Me, I know them feller," he declared unexpectedly. "Dat day I seen them feller. They go--"

The old Indian touched him on the shoulder, and Juan turned and repeated the statement in Spanish.
The old man's eyes went to luck understandingly, while he asked Juan a question in the Navajo
tongue, and afterwards gave a command. He turned his eyes upon the Native Son and spoke in
Spanish. "The men you want did not come this way," he said gravely. "Juan will tell."

"Yes, I know dat Ramon Chavez. I seen him dat day. I'm start for home, an' I seen Ramon Chavez
an' dat Luis Rojas an' one white feller I'm don't know dat feller. "CHARLES R."

Whereas wee vnderstand that an excellent Collection of paintings are to be solde in Venice,
whiche are knowen by the name of Bartolomeo della Nave his Collection, Wee are desirous that
our beloved servant Mr. William Pettye, should goe thither to make
the bargayne for them, Wee our selues beinge resolved to goe a fourthe
share in the buyinge of them (soe it exceed not the s [= o] me of Eight
hundred powndes sterlinge), but that our Name be concealed in it. "Indians," he said
in Mexican. "You follow, Indians think you maybe take them away--put 'm in jail. All friends
of them Indians pretty mad. They come fight you. I hear, I come to find out what's fighting about."

Luck gazed at him stupidly for a moment until the full meaning of the statement seeped through
the ache into his brain. He heaved a great sigh of relief, looked at the Native Son and laughed.

"The joke's on us, I guess," he said. "Go, back and tell that to the boys. I'll be along in
a minute."

Juan, grinning broadly at what he considered a very good joke on the nine white men who had
traveled all this way for nothing, went back to explain the mistake to his fellows on the ledge.
The old Indian took it upon himself to disperse the Navajos in the grove, and just as suddenly
as the trouble started it was stopped--and the Happy Family, if they had been at all inclined
to belittle the danger of their position, were made to realize it when thirty or more Navajos
came flocking in from all quarters. Many of them could--and did--talk English understandably,
and most of them seemed inclined to appreciate the joke. All save those whom Lite had "nipped
and nicked" in the course of their flight from the rock ridge to the Frying-Pan. These were
inclined to be peevish over their hurts and to nurse them in sullen silence while Luck, having
a rudimentary knowledge of medicine and surgery, gave them what firstaid treatment was possible.

Applehead, having plenty of reasons for avoiding publicity, had gone into retirement in the
shade of a clump of brush, with Lite to keep him company while he smoked a meditative pipe
or two and studied the puzzle of Ramon's probable whereabouts.

"Can't trust a Navvy," he muttered in a discreet undertone to Lite. "I've fit 'em b'fore now,
'n' I KNOW. At a receiving station the current coming in from the cable has simply to be passed through
the coil of the'speaker'before it is sent into the ground, and the wandering light spot on the screen
faithfully represents all its variations to the clerk, who, looking on, interprets these,
and cries out the message word by word.

The small weight of the mirror and magnets which form the moving part of this instrument, and
the range to which the minute motions of the mirror can be magnified on the screen by the reflected
beam of light, which acts as a long impalpable hand or pointer, render
the mirror galvanometer marvellously sensitive to the current, especially
when compared with other forms of receiving instruments.

Messages have been sent from England to America through one Atlantic cable and back again to England
through another, and there received on the mirror galvanometer, the electric current used being that
from a toy battery made out of a lady's silver thimble, a grain of zinc, and a drop of acidulated
water.

The practical advantage of this extreme delicacy is, that the signal waves of the current may follow
each other so closely as almost entirely to coalesce, leaving only a very slight rise and fall
of their crests, like ripples on the surface of a flowing stream, and yet the light spot will
respond to each. The main flow of the current will of course shift the zero of the spot, but
over and above this change of place the spot will follow the momentary fluctuations of the current
which form the individual signals of the message. What with this shifting of the zero and the very
slight rise and fall in the current produced by rapid signalling, the ordinary land line instruments
are quite unserviceable for work upon long cables.

The mirror instrument has this drawback, however-- it does not'record'the message. There is
a great practical advantage in a receiving instrument which records its messages; errors are
avoided and time saved. It was to supply such a desideratum for cable work that Sir William Thomson
invented the siphon recorder, his second important contribution to the province of practical
telegraphy. He aimed at giving a GRAPHIC representation of the varying
strength of the current, just as the mirror galvanometer gives a visual
one.

The difficulty of producing such a recorder was, as he himself says, due to a difficulty in
obtaining marks from a very light body in rapid motion, without impeding
that motion.

The moving body must be quite free to follow the undulations of the current, and at the same
time must record its motions by some indelible mark. As early as 1859, Sir William sent out to
the Red Sea cable a piece of apparatus with this intent. The marker consisted of a light platinum
wire, constantly emitting sparks from a Rhumkorff coil, so as to perforate a line on a strip
of moving paper; and it was so connected to the movable needle of
a species of galvanometer as to imitate the motions of the needle.

But before it reached the Red Sea the cable had broken down, and the instrument was returned
dismantled, to be superseded at length by the siphon recorder, in which the marking point
is a fine glass siphon emitting ink, and the moving body a light
coil of wire hung between the poles of a magnet.

The principle of the siphon recorder is exactly the inverse of the mirror galvanometer. In the latter
we have a small magnet suspended in the centre of a large coil of wire-- the wire enclosing the
magnet, which is free to rotate round its own axis.

In the former we have a small coil suspended between the poles of a large magnet-- the magnet
enclosing the coil, which is also free to rotate round its own axis. When a current passes
through this coil, so suspended in the highly magnetic space between the poles of the magnet,
the coil itself experiences a mechanical force, causing it to take up a particular position,
which varies with the nature of the current, and the siphon which is attached to it faithfully
figures its motion on the running paper.

The point of the siphon does not touch the paper, although it is very
close.

It would impede the motion of the coil if it did. But the'capillary attraction'of so fine a
tube will not permit the ink to flow freely of itself, so the inventor, true
to his instincts, again called in the aid of electricity, and electrified
the ink.

The siphon and reservoir are together supported by an EBONITE bracket,
separate from the rest of the instrument, and INSULATED from it; that
is to say, electricity cannot escape from them to the instrument.

The ink may, therefore, be electrified to an exalted state, or high POTENTIAL as it is called,
while the body of the instrument, including the paper and metal writing-tablet, are in connection
with the earth, and at low potential, or none at all, for the potential of the earth is in general
taken as zero.

The ink, for example, is like a highly-charged thunder-cloud supported over the earth's surface.
Now the tendency of a charged body is to move from a place of higher to a place of lower potential,
and consequently the ink tends to flow downwards to the writing-tablet. The only avenue of escape
for it is by the fine glass siphon, and through this it rushes accordingly
and discharges itself in a rain upon the paper.

The natural repulsion between its like electrified particles causes the shower to issue in
spray. As the paper moves over the pulleys a delicate hair line is marked, straight when the
siphon is stationary, but curved when the siphon is pulled from side
to side by the oscillations of the signal coil.

It is to the mouse-mill that me must look both for the electricity which is used to electrify
the ink and for the motive power which drives the paper.

This unique and interesting little motor owes its somewhat epigrammatic title to the resemblance
of the drum to one of those sparred wheels turned by white mice, and to the amusing fact of its
capacity for performing work having been originally computed in terms of a'mouse-power.'The
mill is turned by a stream of electricity flowing from the battery above described, and is,
in fact, an electro-magnetic engine worked by the current.

The alphabet of signals employed is the'Morse code,'so generally in vogue throughout the world. In the
Morse code the letters of the alphabet are represented by combinations of two distinct elementary
signals, technically called'dots'and'dashes,'from the fact that the Morse recorder actually marks
the message in long and short lines, or dots and dashes.

In the siphon recorder script dots and dashes are represented by curves of opposite flexure.
The condensers are merely used to sharpen the action of the current, and render the signals
more concise and distinct on long cables. On short cables, say under three hundred miles long,
they are rarely, if ever, used.

The speed of signalling by the siphon recorder is of course regulated by the length of cable through
which it is worked. The instrument itself is capable of a wide range of speed. The best operators
cannot send over thirty-five words per minute by hand, but a hundred and twenty words or more per minute
can be transmitted by an automatic sender, and the recorder has been
found on land lines and short cables to write off the message at this
incredible speed.

When we consider that every word is, on the average, composed of fifteen separate waves, we
may better appreciate the rapidity with which the siphon can move. On an ordinary cable of
about a thousand miles long, the working speed is about twenty words per minute. On the French
Atlantic it is usually about thirteen, although as many as seventeen
have sometimes been sent.

The'duplex'system, or method of telegraphing in opposite directions at once through the same wire,
has of late years been applied, in connection with the recorder, to all the long cables of that
most enterprising of telegraph companies-- the Eastern-- so that both stations may'speak'to each
other simultaneously.

Thus the carrying capacity of the wire is in practice nearly doubled, and recorders are busy
writing at both ends of the cable at once, as if the messages came
up out of the sea itself.

We
have thus far followed out the recorder in its practical application to submarine telegraphy. Let us
now regard it for a moment in its more philosophic aspect. We are at once struck with its self-dependence
as a machine, and even its resemblance in some respects to a living creature. All its activity
depends on the galvanic current.

From three separate sources invisible currents are led to its principal parts, and are at once physically
changed. That entering the mouse-mill becomes transmuted in part into the mechanical motion of
the revolving drum, and part into electricity of a more intense nature-- into mimic lightning,
in fact, with its accompaniments of heat and sound. That entering the signal magnet expends
part of its force in the magnetism of the core. That entering the signal coil, which may be taken
as the brain of the instrument, appears to us as INTELLIGENCE.

The recorder is now in use in all four quarters of the globe, from
Northern Europe to Southern Brazil, from China to New England.

Many and complete are the adjustments for rendering it serviceable under a wide range of electrical
conditions and climatic changes. The siphon is, of course, in a mechanical sense, the most delicate part,
but, in an electrical sense, the mouse-mill proves the most susceptible. It is essential for
the fine marking of the siphon that the ink should neither be too
strongly nor too feebly electrified.

When the atmosphere is moderately humid, a proper supply of electricity is generated by the mouse-mill,
the paper is sufficiently moist, and the ink flows freely.

But an excess of moisture in the air diminishes the available supply of EXALTED electricity.
In fact, the damp depositing on the parts leads the electricity away, and the ink tends to clog
in the siphon. On the other hand, drought not only supercharges the ink, but dries the paper
so much that it INSULATES the siphon point from the metal tablet and the earth. There is then
an insufficient escape for the electricity of the ink to earth; the
ink ceases to flow down the siphon; the siphon itself becomes highly
electrified and agitated with vibrations of its own; the line becomes
spluttered and uncertain.

Various devices are employed at different stations to cure these local
complaints.

The electrician soon learns to diagnose and prescribe for this, his most valuable charge. At
Aden, where they suffer much from humidity, the mouse-mill is or has been surrounded with burning
carbon. At Malta a gas flame was used for the same purpose. At Suez, where they suffer from
drought, a cloud of steam was kept rising round the instrument, saturating the air and paper.
At more temperate places the ordinary means of drying the air by taking advantage of the absorbing
power of sulphuric acid for moisture prevailed.

At Marseilles the recorder acted in some respects like a barometer.

Marseilles is subject to sudden incursions of dry northerly winds, termed the MISTRAL. The recorder
never failed to indicate the mistral when it blew, and sometimes even to predict it by many
hours. Before the storm was itself felt, the delicate glass pen became agitated and disturbed, the
frail blue line broken and irregular. The electrician knew that the mistral would blow before long,
and, as it rarely blows for less than three days at a time, that
rather rude wind, so dreaded by the Marseillaise, was doubly dreaded
by him.

The recorder was first used experimentally at St. Pierre, on the French
Atlantic cable, in 1869.

This was numbered 0, as we were told by Mr. White of Glasgow, the maker, whose skill has contributed
not a little to the success of the recorder.

No. 1 was first used practically on the Falmouth and Gibraltar cable of the Eastern Telegraph
Company in July, 1870. No. 1 was also exhibited at Mr. (now Sir John) Pender's telegraph soiree
in 1870. On that occasion, memorable even beyond telegraphic circles,'three hundred of the notabilities
of rank and fashion gathered together at Mr. Pender's house in Arlington
Street, Piccadilly, to celebrate the completion of submarine communication
between London and Bombay by the successful laying of the Falmouth,
Gibraltar and Malta and the British Indian cable lines.'Mr. Pender's
house was literally turned outside in; the front door was removed,
the courtyard temporarily covered with an iron roof and the whole
decorated in the grandest style.

Over the gateway was a gallery filled with the band of the Scots Fusilier Guards; and over the portico
of the house door hung the grapnel which brought up the 1865 cable,
made resplendent to the eye by a coating of gold leaf.

A handsome staircase, newly erected, permitted the guests to pass
from the reception-room to the drawing-room.

In the grounds at the back of the house stood the royal tent, where the Prince of Wales and
a select party, including the Duke of Cambridge and Lady Mayo, wife of the Viceroy of India
at that time, were entertained at supper. Into this tent were brought wires from India, America,
Egypt, and other places, and Lady Mayo sent off a message to India
about half-past eleven, and had received a reply before twelve, telling
her that her husband and sons were quite well at five o'clock the
next morning.

The recorder, which was shown in operation, naturally stood in the
place of honour, and attracted great attention.

The minor features of the recorder have been simplified by other inventors
of late; for example, magnets of steel have been substituted for the
electro-magnets which influence the swinging coil; and the ink, instead
of being electrified by the mouse-mill, is shed on the paper by a
rapid vibration of the siphon point.

To introduce his apparatus for signalling on long submarine cables,
Sir William Thomson entered into a partnership with Mr. C. F. Varley,
who first applied condensers to sharpen the signals, and Professor
Fleeming Jenkin, of Edinburgh University.

In conjunction with the latter, he also devised an'automatic curb sender,'or key, for sending messages
on a cable, as the well-known Wheatstone transmitter sends them on
a land line.

In both instruments the signals are sent by means of a perforated
ribbon of paper; but the cable sender was the more complicated, because
the cable signals are formed by both positive and negative currents,
and not merely by a single current, whether positive or negative.

Moreover, to curb the prolongation of the signals due to induction, each signal was made by
two opposite currents in succession-- a positive followed by a negative, or a negative followed
by a positive, as the case might be.

The after-current had the effect of curbing its precursor. This self-acting cable key was brought
out in 1876, and tried on the lines of the Eastern Telegraph Company.

Sir William Thomson took part in the laying of the French Atlantic cable of 1869, and with Professor
Jenkin was engineer of the Western and Brazilian and Platino-Brazilian cables. He was present
at the laying of the Para to Pernambuco section of the Brazilian coast cables in 1873, and introduced
his method of deep-sea sounding, in which a steel pianoforte wire replaces the ordinary land line.
The wire glides so easily to the bottom that'flying soundings'can be
taken while the ship is going at full speed.

A pressure-gauge to register the depth of the sinker has been added
by Sir William.

About the same time he revived the Sumner method of finding a ship's
place at sea, and calculated a set of tables for its ready application.

His most important aid to the mariner is, however, the adjustable compass, which he brought out
soon afterwards. It is a great improvement on the older instrument, being steadier, less hampered
by friction, and the deviation due to the ship's own magnetism can be corrected by movable masses
of iron at the binnacle.

Sir William is himself a skilful navigator, and delights to cruise in his fine yacht, the Lalla
Rookh, among the Western Islands, or up the Mediterranean, or across
the Atlantic to Madeira and America.

His interest in all things relating to the sea perhaps arose, or at any rate was fostered, by
his experiences on the Agamemnon and the Great Eastern. Babbage was among the first to suggest that
a lighthouse might be made to signal a distinctive number by occultations of its light; but
Sir William pointed out the merits of the Morse telegraphic code for the purpose, and urged
that the signals should consist of short and long flashes of the light to represent the dots
and dashes.

Sir William has done more than any other electrician to introduce
accurate methods and apparatus for measuring electricity.

As early as 1845 his mind was attracted to this subject. He pointed out that the experimental
results of William Snow Harris were in accordance with the laws of
Coulomb. She laid her hand on its head when the dog jumped up to greet her. She smiled
faintly while she fondled its silky, flapping ears.

"Why you all time pat that dam-dog?" Ramon flashed out jealously. "You don't pet yoh man what
lov' yoh!"

"Dogs don't lie," said Annie-Many-Ponies coldly, and walked away. She did not look back, she
did not hurry, though she must have known that Ramon in one bound could have stopped her with
his man's strength. Her head was high, her shoulders were straight, her eyes were so black
the pupils did not show at all, and a film of inscrutability veiled what bitter thoughts were
behind them.

As it had been with Luis so it was now with Ramon. Her utter disregard of him held him back
from touching her. He stood with wrath in his eyes and let her go--and to hide his weakness
from her strength he sent after her a sneering laugh and words that were like a whip.

"All right--jus' for now I let you ron," he jeered. "Bimeby she's different. Bimeby I show
yoh who's boss. I make yoh cry for Ramon be good to yoh!"

Annie-Many-Ponies did not betray by so much as a glance that she beard him. But had he seen
her face he would have been startled at the look his words brought there. He would have been
startled and perhaps he would have been warned. For never bad she carried so clearly the fighting
look of her forefathers who went out to battle. Its age is "frosty but kindly;" some two or
three hundred summers have passed over its old head, which, as yet,
is unscathed by heavens fire, and unriven by its bolt.

The ground here swells unequally and artificially, and in an adjoining field, long called,
no one knew why, "the Conduit Field," pipes that brought the water to the palace have lately
been found, and may be seen intersected by the embankments of the
Epsom railway.

The avenue itself is one of the old approaches to the palace, and was the scene of a skirmish
during the civil wars.{ 237} Your readers may, perhaps, forget that
this palace was the scene of the fatal disgrace of young Essex.

GEORGE W. THORNBURY. Ferrar and Benlowes.-- The preface to that very singular poem, Theophila:
Love's Sacrifice.

Lond. 1652, by Edw.

Benlowes, contains a passage so closely resembling the inscription "in the great parlour" at Little
Gidding (Peckard's Life of Nic. Ferrar, p. 234), that the coincidence cannot have been accidental,
and, if it has not been elsewhere pointed out, may be worth record. As the inscription, thought not
dated, was set up during the life of Ferrar, who died in 1637, the
imitation was evidently not his. Only so much of the inscription is
here given as is requisite to show the parallel. "He who (by reproof of
our errors, and remonstrance of that which is more perfect) seeks to make
us better, is welcome as an Angel of God: and he who (by a cheerful
participation of that which is good) confirms us in the same, is welcome
as a Christian friend.
She would come, give her time enough, and she could not fling at him then any taunt that he
had been over-eager. Certainly she would come--she was a woman!

But the shadow of the pines lengthened until they lay like long fingers across the earth; and
still she did not come. Bill Holmes and Luis, secure in the knowledge that Ramon was on guard
against any unlooked-for visitors, slept heavily on the crude bunks in the cabin. Birds began
twittering animatedly as the beat of the day cooled and they came forth from their shady retreats--and
still Annie-Many-Ponies sat on the little hilltop, within easy calling distance of the cabin,
and never once looked down that way. Alfred Vail cannot be charged with that, however, and it would
have been the more graceful on the part of Morse had he avowed his indebtedness to Vail with
a greater liberality.

Nor would this have detracted from his own merit as the originator and preserver of the idea,
without which the improvements of Vail would have had no existence. In the words of the Hon.
Amos Kendall, a friend of both:'If justice be done, the name of Alfred Vail will for ever stand
associated with that of Samuel F. B. Morse in the history and introduction into public use of
the electro-magnetic telegraph.'Professor Morse spent his declining
years at Locust Grove, a charming retreat on the banks of the River
Hudson.

In private life he was a fine example of the Christian gentleman. In
the summer of 1871, the Telegraphic Brotherhood of the World erected
a statue to his honour in the Central Park, New York.

Delegates from different parts of America were present at the unveiling;
and in the evening there was a reception at the Academy of Music,
where the first recording telegraph used on the Washington to Baltimore
line was exhibited.

The inventor himself appeared, and sent a message at a small table, which was flashed by the connected
wires to the remotest parts of the Union, It ran:'Greeting and thanks to the telegraph fraternity throughout
the world. Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, goodwill
towards men.'It was deemed fitting that Morse should unveil the statue
of Benjamin Franklin, which had been erected in Printing House Square,
New York.

When his venerable figure appeared on the platform, and the long white hair was blown about
his handsome face by the winter wind, a great cheer went up from the assembled multitude. But the
day was bitterly cold, and the exposure cost him his life. Some months later, as he lay on his
sick bed, he observed to the doctor,'The best is yet to come.'In
tapping his chest one day, the physician said,'This is the way we
doctors telegraph, professor,'and Morse replied with a smile,'Very
good-- very good.'These were his last words.

He died at New York on April 2, 1872, at the age of eighty-one years, and was buried in the Greenwood
Cemetery. CHAPTER IV. SIR WILLIAM THOMSON. Sir William Thomson, the greatest physicist of the age,
and the highest authority on electrical science, theoretical and applied, was born at Belfast
on June 25, 1824. His father, Dr. James Thomson, the son of a Scots-Irish farmer, showed a
bent for scholarship when a boy, and became a pupil teacher in a small school near Ballynahinch,
in County Down. With his summer earnings he educated himself at Glasgow
University during winter. Appointed head master of a school in connection
with the Royal Academical Institute, he subsequently obtained the
professorship of mathematics in that academy.

In 1832 he was called to the chair of mathematics in the University of Glasgow, where he achieved a reputation
by his text-books on arithmetic and mathematics.

William began his course at the same college in his eleventh year,
and was petted by the older students for his extraordinary quickness
in solving the problems of his father's class.

It was quite plain that his genius lay in the direction of mathematics; and on finishing at Glasgow he was
sent to the higher mathematical school of St. Peter's College, Cambridge. In 1845 he graduated as
second wrangler, but won the Smith prize. This'consolation stakes'is regarded as a better test of
originality than the tripos.

 But
no one offered to buy it. If the line of high art he had chosen had not supported him in England,
it was tantamount to starvation in the rawer atmosphere of America. Even in Boston, mellowed
though it was by culture, the classical was at a discount.

Almost penniless, and fretting under his disappointment, he went to Concord, New Hampshire,
and contrived to earn a living by painting cabinet portraits. Was
this the end of his ambitious dreams?

Money was needful to extricate
him from this drudgery and let him follow up his aspirations. But even as she fell she spurned the dead Ramon with her
feet, so that he rolled a little way while the black dog growled at him with bared teeth; even
in death she would not touch him who had been so foul. 

They pervaded the whole art of Italy to such an extent that it may be said that all sculptors
were his imitators, both while he lived and after his death. He loved to treat strong subjects,
such as demanded violent movement and unusual positions.

It was only a man of his genius who could raise such subjects above
grotesqueness and the one effect of strange and unnatural exaggeration.

As we look over all his works it seems as if the idea of beauty and
such things as are pleasing to the ordinary mind rarely, if ever,
came to his mind