SEPTEMBER
                                   1667

September 1st (Lord's day).  Up, and betimes by water from the Tower, and called at the Old
Swan for a glass of strong water, and sent word to have little Michell and his wife come and
dine with us to-day; and so, taking in a gentleman and his lady that wanted a boat, I to Westminster.
Setting them on shore at Charing Cross, I to Mrs. Martin's, where I had two pair of cuffs which
I bespoke, and there did sit and talk with her .  .  .  . and here I did see her little girle
my goddaughter, which will be pretty, and there having staid a little I away to Creed's chamber,
and when he was ready away to White Hall, where I met with several people and had my fill of
talk.  It is pretty to see how strange every body looks, nobody knowing whence this arises;
whether from my Lady Castlemayne, Bab. May, and their faction; or from the Duke of York, notwithstanding
his great appearance of defence of the Chancellor; or from Sir William Coventry, and some few
with him.  But greater changes are yet expected.  So home and by water to dinner, where comes
Pelting and young Michell and his wife, whom I have not seen a great while, poor girle, and
then comes Mr. Howe, and all dined with me very merry, and spent all the afternoon, Pelting,
Howe, and I, and my boy, singing of Lock's response to the Ten Commandments, which he hath
set very finely, and was a good while since sung before the King, and spoiled in the performance,
which occasioned his printing them for his vindication, and are excellent good. They parted,
in the evening my wife and I to walk in the garden and there scolded a little, I being doubtful
that she had received a couple of fine pinners (one of point de Gesne), which I feared she
hath from some [one] or other of a present; but, on the contrary, I find she hath bought them
for me to pay for them, without my knowledge.  This do displease me much; but yet do so much
please me better than if she had received them the other way, that I was not much angry, but
fell to other discourse, and so to my chamber, and got her to read to me for saving of my eyes,
and then, having got a great cold, I know not how, I to bed and lay ill at ease all the night.
Thence home and took my wife out to Mile End Green, and there I drank, and so home, having
a very fine evening.  So to bed, my cold remaining though not so much upon me. This day Nell,
an old tall maid, come to live with us, a cook maid recommended by Mr. Batelier.

3rd. I met with Sir Samuel Morland, who chewed me two orders upon the Exchequer, one of L600,
and another of L400, for money assigned to him, which he would have me lend him money upon,
and he would allow 12 per cent.  I would not meddle with them, though they are very good; and
would, had I not so much money out already on public credit.  But I see by this his condition
all trade will be bad.

     Poems, 1697; p. 150.--The king's dogs were constantly stolen from
     him, and he advertised for their return.  Some of these amusing
     advertisements are printed in "Notes and Queries" (seventh series,
     vol. vii., p. 26).]

and what he said was mighty weak; but my Lord Keeper I observe to be a mighty able man.  The
business broke off without any end to it, and so I home, and thence with my wife and W. Hewer
to Bartholomew fayre, and there Polichinelli, where we saw Mrs. Clerke and all her crew; and
so to a private house, and sent for a side of pig, and eat it at an acquaintance of W. Hewer's,
where there was some learned physic and chymical books, and among others, a natural "Herball"
very fine.  Thence home, where Batelier and his sister Mary come to us and sat and talked,
and so, they gone, we to supper and to bed.

5th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, where we sat till noon, and then I home to dinner,
where Mary Batelier and her brother dined with us, who grows troublesome in his talking so
much of his going to Marseilles, and what commissions he hath to execute as a factor, and a
deal of do of which I am weary.  After dinner, with Sir W. Pen, my wife, and Mary Batelier
to the Duke of York's house, and there saw "Heraclius," which is a good play; but they did
so spoil it with their laughing, and being all of them out, and with the noise they made within
the theatre, that I was ashamed of it, and resolve not to come thither again a good while,
believing that this negligence, which I never observed before, proceeds only from their want
of company in the pit, that they have no care how they act.  My wife was ill, and so I was
forced to go out of the house with her to Lincoln's Inn walks, and there in a corner she did
her business, and was by and by well, and so into the house again, but sick of their ill acting.
So home and to the office, where busy late, then home to supper and to bed.

6th.  Up, and to Westminster to the Exchequer, and then into the Hall, and there bought "Guillim's
Heraldry" for my wife, and so to the Swan, and thither come Doll Lane, and je did toucher her,
and drank, and so away, I took coach and home, where I find my wife gone to Walthamstow by
invitation with Sir W. Batten, and so I followed, taking up Mrs. Turner, and she and I much
discourse all the way touching the baseness of Sir W. Pen and sluttishness of his family, and
how the world do suspect that his son Lowther, who is sick of a sore mouth, has got the pox.
So we come to Sir W. Batten's, where Sir W. Pen and his Lady, and we and Mrs. Shipman, and
here we walked and had an indifferent good dinner, the victuals very good and cleanly dressed
and good linen, but no fine meat at all.  After dinner we went up and down the house, and I
do like it very well, being furnished with a great deal of very good goods.  And here we staid,
I tired with the company, till almost evening, and then took leave, Turner and I together again,
and my wife with [Sir] W. Pen.  At Aldgate I took my wife into our coach, and so to Bartholomew
fair, and there, it being very dirty, and now night, we saw a poor fellow, whose legs were
tied behind his back, dance upon his hands with his arse above his head, and also dance upon
his crutches, without any legs upon the ground to help him, which he did with that pain that
I was sorry to see it, and did pity him and give him money after he had done.  Then we to see
a piece of clocke-work made by an Englishman--indeed, very good, wherein all the several states
of man's age, to 100 years old, is shewn very pretty and solemne; and several other things
more cheerful, and so we ended, and took a link, the women resolving to be dirty, and walked
up and down to get a coach; and my wife, being a little before me, had been like to be taken
up by one, whom we saw to be Sam Hartlib.  My wife had her wizard on: yet we cannot say that
he meant any hurt; for it was as she was just by a coach-side, which he had, or had a mind
to take up; and he asked her, "Madam, do you go in this coach?" but, soon as he saw a man come
to her (I know not whether he knew me) he departed away apace.  By and by did get a coach,
and so away home, and there to supper, and to bed.

7th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, where Goodgroome
was teaching my wife, and dined with us, and I did tell him of my intention to learn to trill,
which he will not promise I shall obtain, but he will do what can be done, and I am resolved
to learn.  All the afternoon at the office, and towards night out by coach with my wife, she
to the 'Change, and I to see the price of a copper cisterne for the table, which is very pretty,
and they demand L6 or L7 for one; but I will have one.  Then called my wife at the 'Change,
and bought a nightgown for my wife: cost but 24s., and so out to Mile End to drink, and so
home to the office to end my letters, and so home to supper and to bed.

8th (Lord's day).  Up, and walked to St. James's; but there I find Sir W. Coventry gone from
his chamber, and Mr. Wren not yet come thither.  But I up to the Duke of York, and there, after
being ready, my Lord Bruncker and I had an audience, and thence with my Lord Bruncker to White
Hall, and he told me, in discourse, how that, though it is true that Sir W. Coventry did long
since propose to the Duke of York the leaving his service, as being unable to fulfill it, as
he should do, now he hath so much public business, and that the Duke of York did bid him to
say nothing of it, but that he would take time to please himself in another to come in his
place; yet the Duke's doing it at this time, declaring that he hath found out another, and
this one of the Chancellor's servants, he cannot but think was done with some displeasure,
and that it could not well be otherwise, that the Duke of York should keep one in that place,
that had so eminently opposed him in the defence of his father-in-law, nor could the Duchesse
ever endure the sight of him, to be sure.  But he thinks that the Duke of York and he are parted
upon clear terms of friendship.  I went to the King's Chapel to the closet, and there I hear
Cresset sing a tenor part along with the Church musick very handsomely, but so loud that people
did laugh at him, as a thing done for ostentation.  Here I met Sir G. Downing, who would speak
with me, and first to inquire what I paid for my kid's leather gloves I had on my hand, and
shewed me others on his, as handsome, as good in all points, cost him but 12d. a pair, and
mine me 2s. He told me he had been seven years finding out a man that could dress English sheepskin
as it should be--and, indeed, it is now as good, in all respects, as kid, and he says will
save L100,000 a-year, that goes out to France for kid's skins.  Thus he labours very worthily
to advance our own trade, but do it with mighty vanity and talking.  But then he told me of
our base condition, in the treaty with Holland and France, about our prisoners, that whereas
before we did clear one another's prisoners, man for man, and we upon the publication of the
peace did release all our's, 300 at Leith, and others in other places for nothing, the Dutch
do keep theirs, and will not discharge them with[out] paying their debts according to the Treaty.
That his instruments in Holland, writing to our Embassadors about this to Bredagh, they answer
them that they do not know of any thing that they have done therein, but left it just as it
was before.  To which, when they answer, that by the treaty their Lordships had [not] bound
our countrymen to pay their debts in prison, they answer they cannot help it, and we must get
them off as cheap as we can.  On this score, they demand L1100 for Sir G. Ascue, and L5000
for the one province of Zealand, for the prisoners that we have therein.  He says that this
is a piece of shame that never any nation committed, and that our very Lords here of the Council,
when he related this matter to them, did not remember that they had agreed to this article;
and swears that all their articles are alike, as the giving away Polleroon, and Surinam, and
Nova Scotia, which hath a river 300 miles up the country, with copper mines more than Swedeland,
and Newcastle coals, the only place in America that hath coals that we know of; and that Cromwell
did value those places, and would for ever have made much of them; but we have given them away
for nothing, besides a debt to the King of Denmarke.  But, which is most of all, they have
discharged those very particular demands of merchants of the Guinny Company and others, which
he, when he was there, had adjusted with the Dutch, and come to an agreement in writing, and
they undertaken to satisfy, and that this was done in black and white under their hands; and
yet we have forgiven all these, and not so much as sent to Sir G. Downing to know what he had
done, or to confer with him about any one point of the treaty, but signed to what they would
have, and we here signed to whatever in grosse was brought over by Mr. Coventry.  And [Sir
G. Downing] tells me, just in these words, "My Lord Chancellor had a mind to keep himself from
being questioned by clapping up a peace upon any terms."  This Rawlinson do tell me my Lord
Chancellor's own gentleman did tell him himself.  Thence, meeting Creed, I with him to the
Parke, there to walk a little, and to the Queen's Chapel and there hear their musique, which
I liked in itself pretty well as to the composition, but their voices are very harsh and rough
that I thought it was some instruments they had that made them sound so.  Here was a gentleman,
one Sheres, one come lately from my Lord Sandwich, with an express; but, Lord!  I was almost
ashamed to see him, lest he should know that I have not yet wrote one letter to my Lord since
his going.  I had no discourse with him, but after dinner Sir G. Carteret and I to talk about
some business of his, and so I to Mrs. Martin, where was Mrs. Burroughs, and also fine Mrs.
Noble, my partner in the christening of Martin's child, did come to see it, and there we sat
and talked an hour, and then all broke up and I by coach home, and there find Mr. Pelling and
Howe, and we to sing and good musique till late, and then to supper, and Howe lay at my house,
and so after supper to bed with much content, only my mind a little troubled at my late breach
of vowes, which however I will pay my forfeits, though the badness of my eyes, making me unfit
to read or write long, is my excuse, and do put me upon other pleasures and employment which
I should refrain from in observation of my vowes.

9th.  Up; and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon comes Creed to dine with me.
After dinner, he and I and my wife to the Bear-Garden, to see a prize fought there.  Here I
fell in talk with Tom Killigrew about musick, and he tells me that he will bring me to the
best musick in England (of which, indeed, he is master), and that is two Italians and Mrs.
Yates, who, he says, is come to sing the Italian manner as well as ever he heard any: says
that Knepp won't take pains enough, but that she understands her part so well upon the stage,
that no man or woman in the House do the like.  Thence carried Creed to White Hall, and there
my wife and I took coach and home, and both of us to Sir W. Batten's, to invite them to dinner
on Wednesday next, having a whole buck come from Hampton Court, by the warrant which Sir Stephen
Fox did give me.  And so home to supper and to bed, after a little playing on the flageolet
with my wife, who do outdo therein whatever I expected of her.

10th.  Up, and all the morning at the Office, where little to do but bemoan ourselves under
the want of money; and indeed little is, or can be done, for want of money, we having not now
received one penny for any service in many weeks, and none in view to receive, saving for paying
of some seamen's wages.  At noon sent to by my Lord Bruncker to speak with him, and it was
to dine with him and his Lady Williams (which I have not now done in many months at their own
table) and Mr. Wren, who is come to dine with them, the first time he hath been at the office
since his being the Duke of York's Secretary.  Here we sat and eat and talked and of some matters
of the office, but his discourse is as yet but weak in that matter, and no wonder, he being
new in it, but I fear he will not go about understanding with the impatience that Sir W. Coventry
did.  Parted with him at White Hall, and, there I took coach and took up my wife and Mercer,
and so home and I to the office, where ended my letters, and then to my chamber with my boy
to lay up some papers and things that lay out of order against to-morrow, to make it clear
against the feast that I am to have.  Here Mr. Pelling come to sit with us, and talked of musique
and the musicians of the town, and so to bed, after supper.

11th.  Up, and with Mr. Gawden to the Exchequer.  By the way, he tells me this day he is to
be answered whether he must hold Sheriffe or no; for he would not hold unless he may keep it
at his office, which is out of the city (and so my Lord Mayor must come with his sword down,
whenever he comes thither), which he do, because he cannot get a house fit for him in the city,
or else he will fine for it.  Among others that they have in nomination for Sheriffe, one is
little Chaplin, who was his servant, and a very young man to undergo that place; but as the
city is now, there is no great honour nor joy to be had, in being a public officer.  At the
Exchequer I looked after my business, and when done went home to the 'Change, and there bought
a case of knives for dinner, and a dish of fruit for 5s., and bespoke other things, and then
home, and here I find all things in good order, and a good dinner towards.  After dinner I
took occasion to break up the company soon as I could, and all parted, Sir W. Batten and I
by water to White Hall, there to speak with the Commissioners of the Treasury, who are mighty
earnest for our hastening all that may be the paying off of the Seamen, now there is money,
and are considering many other thins for easing of charge, which I am glad of, but vexed to
see that J. Duncomb should be so pressing in it as if none of us had like care with him. Having
done there, I by coach to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw part of "The Ungratefull
Lovers;" and sat by Beck Marshall, who is very handsome near hand.  Here I met Mrs. Turner
and my wife as we agreed, and together home, and there my wife and I part of the night at the
flageolet, which she plays now any thing upon almost at first sight and in good time. He would
seem to fear that this difference about the Crowne (if there be nothing else) will undo us.
He gone, after supper, I to bed, being mightily pleased with my wife's playing so well upon
the flageolet, and I am resolved she shall learn to play upon some instrument, for though her
eare be bad, yet I see she will attain any thing to be done by her hand.

12th.  Up, and at the office all the morning till almost noon, and then I rode from the office
(which I have not done five times I think since I come thither) and to the Exchequer for some
tallies for Tangier; and that being done, to the Dog taverne, and there I spent half a piece
upon the clerks, and so away, and I to Mrs. Martin's, but she not at home, but staid and drunk
with her sister and landlady, and by that time it was time to go to a play, which I did at
the Duke's house, where "Tu Quoque" was the first time acted, with some alterations of Sir
W. Davenant's; but the play is a very silly play, methinks; for I, and others that sat by me,
Mr. Povy and Mr. Progers, were weary of it; but it will please the citizens. My wife also was
there, I having sent for her to meet me there, and W. Hewer.  After the play we home, and there
I to the office and despatched my business, and then home, and mightily pleased with my wife's
playing on the flageolet, she taking out any tune almost at first sight, and keeping time to
it, which pleases me mightily.  So to supper and to bed.

13th.  Called up by people come to deliver in ten chaldron of coals, brought in one of our
prizes from Newcastle.  The rest we intend to sell, we having above ten chaldron between us.
They sell at about 28s. or 29s. per chaldron; but Sir W. Batten hath sworn that he was a cuckold
that sells under 30s., and that makes us lay up all but what we have for our own spending,
which is very pleasant; for I believe we shall be glad to sell them for less.  To the office,
and there despatched business till ten o'clock, and then with Sir W. Batten and my wife and
Mrs. Turner by hackney-coach to Walthamstow, to Mr. Shipman's to dinner, where Sir W. Pen and
my Lady and Mrs. Lowther (the latter of which hath got a sore nose, given her, I believe, from
her husband, which made me I could not look upon her with any pleasure), and here a very good
and plentifull wholesome dinner, and, above all thing, such plenty of milk meats, she keeping
a great dairy, and so good as I never met with.  The afternoon proved very foul weather, the
morning fair.  We staid talking till evening, and then home, and there to my flageolet with
my wife, and so to bed without any supper, my belly being full and dinner not digested.  It
vexed me to hear how Sir W. Pen, who come alone from London, being to send his coachman for
his wife and daughter, and bidding his coachman in much anger to go for them (he being vexed,
like a rogue, to do anything to please his wife), his coachman Tom was heard to say a pox,
or God rot her, can she walk hither?  These words do so mad me that I could find in my heart
to give him or my Lady notice of them.

14th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning busy. It seems, it hath not been acted
a good while.  Thence to the Exchange for something for my wife, and then home and to the office,
and then home to our flageolet, and so to bed, being mightily troubled in mind at the liberty
I give myself of going to plays upon pretence of the weakness of my eyes, that cannot continue
so long together at work at my office, but I must remedy it.

15th (Lord's day).  Up to my chamber, there to set some papers to rights. By and by to church,
where I stood, in continual fear of Mrs. Markham's coming to church, and offering to come into
our pew, to prevent which, soon as ever I heard the great door open, I did step back, and clap
my breech to our pew-door, that she might be forced to shove me to come in; but as God would
have it, she did not come.  Mr. Mills preached, and after sermon, by invitation, he and his
wife come to dine with me, which is the first time they have been in my house; I think, these
five years, I thinking it not amiss, because of their acquaintance in our country, to shew
them some respect.  Mr. Turner and his wife, and their son the Captain, dined with me, and
I had a very good dinner for them, and very merry, and after dinner, he [Mr. Mills] was forced
to go, though it rained, to Stepney, to preach.  We also to church, and then home, and there
comes Mr. Pelling, with two men, by promise, one Wallington and Piggott, the former whereof,
being a very little fellow, did sing a most excellent bass, and yet a poor fellow, a working
goldsmith, that goes without gloves to his hands.  Here we sung several good things, but I
am more and more confirmed that singing with many voices is not singing, but a sort of instrumental
musique, the sense of the words being lost by not being heard, and especially as they set them
with Fuges of words, one after another, whereas singing properly, I think, should be but with
one or two voices at most and the counterpoint.  They supped with me, and so broke, up, and
then my wife and I to my chamber, where, through the badness of my eyes, she was forced to
read to me, which she do very well, and was Mr. Boyle's discourse upon the style of the Scripture,'
which is a very fine piece, and so to bed.

16th.  I will try to get one of them.  After dinner she showed us her closet, which is pretty,
with her James's picture done by Hales, but with a mighty bad hand, which is his great fault
that he do do negligently, and the drapery also not very good.  Here we saw Madam Morland,
who is grown mighty fat, but is very comely.  But one of the best arts of our sport was a mighty
pretty lady that sat behind, that did laugh so heartily and constantly, that it did me good
to hear her.

17th.  Up, and at the office all the morning, where Mr. Wren come to us and sat with us, only
to learn, and do intend to come once or twice a week and sit with us.  In the afternoon walked
to the Old Swan, the way mighty dirty, and there called at Michell's, and there had opportunity
para kiss su moher, but elle did receive it with a great deal of seeming regret, which did
vex me.  But however I do not doubt overcoming her as I did the moher of the monsieur at Deptford.
So thence by water to Westminster, to Burgess, and there did receive my orders for L1500 more
for Tangier. Thence to the Hall, and there talked a little with Mrs. Michell, and so to Mrs.
Martin's to pay for my cuffs and drink with her . .  .  .  And by and by away by coach and
met with Sir H. Cholmly, and with him to the Temple, and there in Playford's shop did give
him some of my Exchequer orders and took his receipts, and so parted and home, and there to
my business hard at the office, and then home, my wife being at Mrs. Turner's, who and her
husband come home with her, and here staid and talked and staid late, and then went away and
we to bed.  But that which vexed me much this evening is that Captain Cocke and Sir W. Batten
did come to me, and sat, and drank a bottle of wine, and told me how Sir W. Pen hath got an
order for the "Flying Greyhound" for himself, which is so false a thing, and the part of a
knave, as nothing almost can be more. This vexed me; but I resolve to bring it before the Duke,
and try a pull for it.

18th.  Up betimes and to Captain Cocke, in his coach which he sent for me, and he not being
ready I walked in the Exchange, which is now made pretty, by having windows and doors before
all their shops, to keep out the cold. By and by to him, and he being ready, he and I out in
his coach to my Lord Chancellor's; there to Mr. Wren's chamber, who did tell us the whole of
Sir W. Pen's having the order for this ship of ours, and we went with him to St. James's, and
there I did see the copy of it, which is built upon a suggestion of his having given the King
a ship of his, "The Prosperous," wherein is such a cheat as I have the best advantage in the
world over him, and will make him do reason, or lay him on his back.  This I was very glad
of, and having done as far as I could in it we returned, and I home, and there at the office
all the morning, and at noon with my Lord Bruncker to the Treasurer's office to look over the
clerks who are there making up the books, but in such a manner as it is a shame to see.  Then
home to dinner, and after dinner, my mind mighty full of this business of Sir W. Pen's, to
the office, and there busy all the afternoon.  This evening Sir W. Batten and [Sir] W. Pen
and I met at [Sir] W. Batten's house, and there I took an opportunity to break the business,
at which [Sir] W. Pen is much disturbed, and would excuse it the most he can, but do it so
basely, that though he do offer to let go his pretence to her, and resign up his order for
her, and come in only to ask his share of her (which do very well please me, and give me present
satisfaction), yet I shall remember him for a knave while I live.  But thus my mind is quieted
for the present more than I thought I should be, and am glad that I shall have no need of bidding
him open defiance, which I would otherwise have done, and made a perpetual war between us.
So to the office, and there busy pretty late, and so home and to supper with my wife, and so
to bed.

19th.  Up, and all the morning at the office.  At noon home to dinner, W. Hewer and I and my
wife, when comes my cozen, Kate Joyce, and an aunt of ours, Lettice, formerly Haynes, and now
Howlett, come to town to see her friends, and also Sarah Kite, with her little boy in her armes,
a very pretty little boy.  The child I like very well, and could wish it my own. My wife being
all unready, did not appear.  I made as much of them as I could such ordinary company; and
yet my heart was glad to see them, though their condition was a little below my present state,
to be familiar with. She tells me how the lifeguard, which we thought a little while since
was sent down into the country about some insurrection, was sent to Winchcombe, to spoil the
tobacco there, which it seems the people there do plant contrary to law, and have always done,
and still been under force and danger of having it spoiled, as it hath been oftentimes, and
yet they will continue to plant it.

     [Winchcombe St. Peter, a market-town in Gloucestershire.  Tobacco
     was first cultivated in this parish, after its introduction into
     England, in 1583, and it proved, a considerable source of profit to
     the inhabitants, till the trade was placed under restrictions.  The
     cultivation was first prohibited during the Commonwealth, and
     various acts were passed in the reign of Charles II. for the same
     purpose.  Among the king's pamphlets in the British Museum is a
     tract entitled "Harry Hangman's Honour, or Glostershire Hangman's
     Request to the Smokers and Tobacconists of London," dated June 11th,
     1655.  The author writes: "The very planting of tobacco hath proved
     the decay of my trade, for since it hath been planted in
     Glostershire, especially at Winchcomb, my trade hath proved nothing
     worth."  He adds: "Then 'twas a merry world with me, for indeed
     before tobacco was there planted, there being no kind of trade to
     employ men, and very small tillage, necessity compelled poor men to
     stand my friends by stealing of sheep and other cattel, breaking of
     hedges, robbing of orchards, and what not."]

The place, she says, is a miserable poor place.  They gone, I to the office, where all the
afternoon very busy, and at night, when my eyes were weary of the light, I and my wife to walk
in the garden, and then home to supper and pipe, and then to bed.

20th.  At the office doing business all the morning.  At noon expected Creed to have come to
dine with me and brought Mr. Sheres (the gentleman lately come from my Lord Sandwich) with
him; but they come not, so there was a good dinner lost.  After dinner my wife and Jane about
some business of hers abroad, and then I to the office, where, having done my business, I out
to pay some debts: among others to the taverne at the end of Billiter Lane, where my design
was to see the pretty mistress of the house, which I did, and indeed is, as I always thought,
one of the modestest, prettiest, plain women that ever I saw.  Thence was met in the street
by Sir W. Pen, and he and I by coach to the King's playhouse, and there saw "The Mad Couple,"
which I do not remember that I have seen; it is a pretty pleasant play.  Thence home, and my
wife and I to walk in the garden, she having been at the same play with Jane, in the 18d. seat,
to shew Jane the play, and so home to supper and to bed.

21st.  All the morning at the office, dined at home, and expected Sheres again, but he did
not come, so another dinner lost by the folly of Creed. After having done some business at
the office, I out with my wife to Sheres's lodging and left an invitation for him to dine with
me tomorrow, and so back and took up my wife at the Exchange, and then kissed Mrs. Smith's
pretty hand, and so with my wife by coach to take some ayre (but the way very dirty) as far
as Bow, and so drinking (as usual) at Mile End of Byde's ale, we home and there busy at my
letters till late, and so to walk by moonshine with my wife, and so to bed.  At my chamber
all the morning making up some accounts, to my great content.  Most of the afternoon talking
of Spain, and informing him against his return how things are here, and so spent most of the
afternoon, and then he parted, and then to my chamber busy till my eyes were almost blind with
writing and reading, and I was fain to get the boy to come and write for me, and then to supper,
and Pelling come to me at supper, and then to sing a Psalm with him, and so parted and to bed,
after my wife had read some thing to me (to save my eyes) in a good book.  This night I did
even my accounts of the house, which I have to my great shame omitted now above two months
or more, and therefore am content to take my wife's and mayd's accounts as they give them,
being not able to correct them, which vexes me; but the fault being my own, contrary to my
wife's frequent desires, I cannot find fault, but am resolved never to let them come to that
pass again.  Up, and walked to the Exchange, there to get a coach but failed, and so was forced
to walk a most dirty walk to the Old Swan, and there took boat, and so to the Exchange, and
there took coach to St. James's and did our usual business with the Duke of York.  Thence I
walked over the Park to White Hall and took water to Westminster, and there, among other things,
bought the examinations of the business about the Fire of London, which is a book that Mrs.
Pierce tells me hath been commanded to be burnt. The examinations indeed are very plain.  Thence
to the Excise office, and so to the Exchange, and did a little business, and so home and took
up my wife, and so carried her to the other end, where I 'light at my Lord Ashly's, by invitation,
to dine there, which I did, and Sir H. Cholmly, Creed, and Yeabsly, upon occasion of the business
of Yeabsly, who, God knows, do bribe him very well for it; and it is pretty to see how this
great man do condescend to these things, and do all he can in his examining of his business
to favour him, and yet with great cunning not to be discovered but by me that am privy to it.
He stayed with me very late, here being Mrs. Turner and W. Batelier drinking and laughing,
and then to bed.

24th.  Up, and to the Office, where all the morning very busy.  At noon home, where there dined
with me Anthony Joyce and his wife, and Will and his wife, and my aunt Lucett, that was here
the other day, and Sarah Kite, and I had a good dinner for them, and were as merry as I could
be in that company where W. Joyce is, who is still the same impertinent fellow that ever he
was.  After dinner I away to St. James's, where we had an audience of the Duke of York of many
things of weight, as the confirming an establishment of the numbers of men on ships in peace
and other things of weight, about which we stayed till past candle-light, and so Sir W. Batten
and W. Pen and I fain to go all in a hackney-coach round by London Wall, for fear of cellars,
this being the first time I have been forced to go that way this year, though now I shall begin
to use it. We tired one coach upon Holborne-Conduit Hill, and got another, and made it a long
journey home.  Where to the office and then home, and at my business till twelve at night,
writing in short hand the draught of a report to make to the King and Council to-morrow, about
the reason of not having the book of the Treasurer made up.  This I did finish to-night to
the spoiling of my eyes, I fear.  This done, then to bed.  This evening my wife tells me that
W. Batelier hath been here to-day, and brought with him the pretty girl he speaks of, to come
to serve my wife as a woman, out of the school at Bow. My wife says she is extraordinary handsome,
and inclines to have her, and I am glad of it--at least, that if we must have one, she should
be handsome.  But I shall leave it wholly to my wife, to do what she will therein.

25th.

     [This remarkable fact is confirmed by Evelyn, in a letter to Sir
     Samuel Tuke, September 27th, 1666.  See "Correspondence," vol.
     iii., p. 345, edit.  So, it being a mighty wet day and night, I with much
ado got a coach, and, with twenty stops which he made, I got him to carry
me quite through, and paid dear for it, and so home, and there comes my
wife home from the Duke of York's playhouse, where she hath been with my
aunt and Kate Joyce, and so to supper, and betimes to bed, to make amends
for my last night's work and want of sleep.

26th.  Up, and to my chamber, whither Jonas Moore comes, and, among other things, after our
business done, discoursing of matters of the office, I shewed him my varnished things, which
he says he can outdo much, and tells me the mighty use of Napier's bones;

     [John Napier or Neper (1550-1617), laird of Merchiston (now
     swallowed up in the enlarged Edinburgh of to-day, although the old
     castle still stands), and the inventor of logarithms.  He published
     his "Rabdologiae seu numerationis per virgulas libri duo" in 1617,
     and the work was reprinted and translated into Italian (1623) and
     Dutch (1626).  In 1667 William Leybourn published "The Art of
     Numbering by Speaking Rods, vulgarly termed Napier's Bones."]

so that I will have a pair presently.  To the office, where busy all the morning sitting, and
at noon home to dinner, and then with my wife abroad to the King's playhouse, to shew her yesterday's
new play, which I like as I did yesterday, the principal thing extraordinary being the dance,
which is very good.  So to Charing Cross by coach, about my wife's business, and then home
round by London Wall, it being very dark and dirty, and so to supper, and, for the ease of
my eyes, to bed, having first ended all my letters at the office.

27th.  Up, and to the office, where very busy all the morning.  While I was busy at the Office,
my wife sends for me to come home, and what was it but to see the pretty girl which she is
taking to wait upon her: and though she seems not altogether so great a beauty as she had before
told me, yet indeed she is mighty pretty; and so pretty, that I find I shall be too much pleased
with it, and therefore could be contented as to my judgement, though not to my passion, that
she might not come, lest I may be found too much minding her, to the discontent of my wife.
She is to come next week.  She seems, by her discourse, to be grave beyond her bigness and
age, and exceeding well bred as to her deportment, having been a scholar in a school at Bow
these seven or eight years.  He says my Lord was fain to keep a letter from the Duke of York
to the Queen of Spain a great while in his hands, before he could think fit to deliver it,
till he had learnt whether the Queen would receive it, it being directed to his cozen.  After
dinner I to the office, and they gone, anon comes Pelling, and he and I to Gray's Inne Fields,
thinking to have heard Mrs. Knight sing at her lodgings, by a friend's means of his;

     [Mrs. Knight, a celebrated singer and mistress of Charles II. There
     is in Waller's "Poems" a song sung by her to the queen on her
     birthday.  In her portrait, engraved by Faber, after Kneller, she is
     represented in mourning, and in a devout posture before a crucifix.
     Evelyn refers to her singing as incomparable, and adds that she had
     "the greatest reach of any English woman; she had been lately
     roaming in Italy, and was much improv'd in that quality" ("Diary,"
     December 2nd, 1674).]

but we come too late; so must try another time.  So lost our labour, and I by coach home, and
there to my chamber, and did a great deal of good business about my Tangier accounts, and so
with pleasure discoursing with my wife of our journey shortly to Brampton, and of this little
girle, which indeed runs in my head, and pleases me mightily, though I dare not own it, and
so to supper and to bed.

28th.  Up, having slept not so much to-night as I used to do, for my thoughts being so full
of this pretty little girle that is coming to live with us, which pleases me mightily.  And
this did move Mr. Wren at the table to-day to say, that he did believe if ever there be occasion
more to raise money, it will become here, as it is in Poland, that there are two treasurers--one
for the King, and the other for the kingdom.  At noon dined at home, and Mr. Hater with me,
and Mr. Pierce, the surgeon, dropped in, who I feared did come to bespeak me to be godfather
to his son, which I am unwilling now to be, having ended my liking to his wife, since I find
she paints.  Here I 'light and to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw a piece of "Sir
Martin Marrall," with great delight, though I have seen it so often, and so home, and there
busy late, and so home to my supper and bed.

29th (Lord's day).  Up, and put off first my summer's silk suit, and put on a cloth one.  Then
to church, and so home to dinner, my wife and I alone to a good dinner.  All the afternoon
talking in my chamber with my wife, about my keeping a coach the next year, and doing some
things to my house, which will cost money--that is, furnish our best chamber with tapestry,
and other rooms with pictures.  In the evening read good books--my wife to me; and I did even
my kitchen accounts.  Then to supper, and so to bed.

30th.  By water to White Hall, there to a committee of Tangier, but they not met yet, I went
to St. James's, there thinking to have opportunity to speak to the Duke of York about the petition
I have to make to him for something in reward for my service this war, but I did waive it.
Thence to White Hall, and there a Committee met, where little was done, and thence to the Duke
of York to Council, where we the officers of the Navy did attend about the business of discharging
the seamen by tickets, where several of the Lords spoke and of our number none but myself,
which I did in such manner as pleased the King and Council.  I abroad after dinner to White
Hall, and there among other things do hear that there will be musique to-morrow night before
the King.  So to Westminster, where to the Swan .  . .  . and drank and away to the Hall, and
thence to Mrs. Martin's, to bespeak some linen, and there je did avoir all with her, and drank,
and away, having first promised my goddaughter a new coat-her first coat. So by coach home,
and there find our pretty girl Willet come, brought by Mr. Batelier, and she is very pretty,
and so grave as I never saw a little thing in my life.  Indeed I think her a little too good
for my family, and so well carriaged as I hardly ever saw.  I wish my wife may use her well.
Now I begin to be full of thought for my journey the next week, if I can get leave, to Brampton.
Tonight come and sat with me Mr. Turner and his wife and tell me of a design of sending their
son Franke to the East Indy Company's service if they can get him entertainment, which they
are promised by Sir Andr. Rickard, which I do very well like of.  So the company broke up and
to bed.

