I believe that historical study is not one of Mr. Ford's strong points, but, even so, he must
be aware of the fact that it is one of the commonest things in history to encounter charges
of conspiracy directed against religious and political sects, supported by more or less plausible
arguments and believed by considerable numbers of people. Were it necessary to my purpose,
and did time permit, I could quite easily fill a considerable volume with illustrations of
this fact. For example, there exists a great literature devoted to the object of proving that
the Vatican is the headquarters of such a conspiracy to bring about or to attain world domination.
Thousands of books and pamphlets have been written to convict the Jesuits of such a conspiracy,
many of them far more convincing than these protocols. Pamphlets aiming to convince the American
people that the Knights of Columbus is an organization aiming at the overthrow of the American
Republic and the establishment of the temporal sovereignty of the Pope over the United States
have been circulated by the million. It is a matter of court record that this charge has been
supported by the publication of what purported to be exact copies of oaths pledging the members
of that organization to the end stated. Let me say at once that I do not credit these sensational
stories and charges. I have confined myself to charges made against one of the two great sections
of Christianity for reasons which seem to me peculiarly cogent. The charges made against the
Jews have produced the most terrible results in the countries where the Roman Catholic Church
is strongest, and no leader of the Christian religion has such strong reason for denouncing
such appeals to prejudice and hatred as the head of that Church. I venture to hazard the opinion
that of all the cranks who have pestered Mr. Ford since he has attained a conspicuous position,
those who imagined themselves to be the victims of conspiracies have outnumbered all the others.
These protocols are either preposterous forgeries deliberately wrought for the purpose of fostering
anti-Semitism in Russia, or they are the pitiable ravings of a familiar type of monomaniac.

Concerning the authorship of the protocols, there has been much conjecture, especially on the
part of those who have seriously regarded them as an authentic expression of Jewish opinion.
It has been whispered in those places where the so-called Jewish question is discussed, that
they are the work of the well-known Zionist leader, Dr. Theodor Herzl. This is the theory which
Nilus himself advances in the introduction to the edition of 1917. He says:

    ... my book has already reached the fourth edition, but it is
    only definitely known to me now and in a manner worthy of
    belief, and that through Jewish sources, that these protocols
    are nothing other than the strategic plans for the conquest of
    the world under the heel of Israel, and worked out by the
    leaders of the Jewish people ... and read to the Councils of
    Elders by the "Prince of Exile," Theodor Herzl, during the first
    Zionist Congress, summoned by him in August, 1897, in Basle.

This is the first time Nilus has so much as hinted at the date of the alleged secret conclave
of the Elders of Zion, at the close of which, according to the story of 1905 so elaborately
contradicted in 1917, the protocols were stolen by a woman. It is perhaps as well to remark
in passing that the first Zionist Congress was held in the open and its proceedings freely
reported in the press. Now, Herzl stands among the foremost of the intellectual Jews of modern
times. All his known work is characterized by clear, clean-cut reasoning and direct and forceful
statement. All his known writings are characterized by these qualities. Whatever we may think
about Zionism, it must be admitted that the great Austrian journalist and critic never lacked
the courage of his convictions, as may be seen by anybody who will take the trouble to read
his writings or the evidence delivered by him before the British Royal Commission on Alien
Immigration, in 1902. If Herzl wrote these documents he adopted the disguise of the style and
method of a much inferior mentality.

Unless we are to believe that he deliberately adopted a style of writing and method of reasoning
entirely unfamiliar and unlike his publicly acknowledged work, for the express purpose of hiding
his authorship of the protocols--which, if we credit the story that they were presented to
a secret conference of the leaders of the alleged conspiracy, is an impossible hypothesis--we
are warranted in saying that, whoever wrote them, it was not Theodor Herzl. It would be as
reasonable to ascribe a Walt Whitman chant to Emerson, or a Bernard Shaw satire to Jonathan
Edwards, as to ascribe these crude, meandering pages to the crystalline intellect of Theodor
Herzl. I do not find in them any suggestion of the trained mind of a scholar and writer of
Herzl's attainments; rather, they seem to me to belong in about the same intellectual category
as the ordinary propaganda literature of the numerous sects, ancient and modern, based upon
peculiar interpretations of Biblical prophecies. Since the outbreak of the World War in 1914,
and throughout the whole chapter of revolutionary events following thereupon, there has been
a steady flood of such literature. Even the much-discussed forecast of Bolshevism does not
in any material respect differ from many similar "prophecies" that have appeared in recent years.

It cannot be denied that Bolshevism actually conforms in a notable degree to the specifications
contained in the protocols, which I have already summarized in the preceding chapter. Shall
we, then, conclude that the charge is proven and declare the case closed, or is it necessary
to examine the evidence further and more critically? I think that a very brief period of honest
reflection will convince any fair-minded and intelligent person of the injustice of the rendering
of a verdict holding the Jews responsible for Bolshevism upon the basis of such evidence. Let
me direct the attention of my readers to a coincidence of dates which once more directs suspicion
against Prof. Sergei Nilus and against the alleged stolen protocols. I have already pointed
out that in 1903, in the first edition of his book, Nilus did not use the alleged protocols,
though he claims that they had been in his possession for two years prior to that time. That
this is a suspicious circumstance will, I think, be readily conceded by the open-minded. In
1903 the Russian Social Democratic party was split into two factions, and the word "Bolshevism"
came into use as the designation of the policy of one of these factions. In 1905 the first
Russian revolution took place. In the period between the split in the Social Democratic party
in 1903 and the outbreak of the revolution in 1905 the leaders of the Bolsheviki had been active
in formulating and propagating their theoretical and political views. During the revolution
a sharp conflict occurred between the Bolsheviki and other factions of the Russian Socialist
movement, and the Socialist press gave much space to the controversy.

It will be seen from this brief historical sketch that when Nilus published a second edition
of his book, late in 1905, he could find in the Russian Socialist press all the materials for
such a general description of Bolshevism as that contained in the protocols. Of course, if
we believe that the documents are genuine, that they are authentic translations of documents
actually stolen in 1896, delivered to Nilus in 1901, and by him first made public in 1905,
we have simply a coincidence of dates. I submit, however, that there is not a shred of credible
evidence that the documents were so obtained by Nilus, or that they existed in 1896, 1901,
1903, or at any date earlier than 1905, the year of their first publication. I submit, furthermore,
that it is highly probable that the passages in the alleged protocols which are now hailed
as conclusive evidence that the Bolshevist policy had been formulated as early as 1896, were
in reality written after 1903 and in the light of already published accounts of Bolshevist
theories and tactics. There is not a thing that we know about these documents and their history
which does not point directly to the conclusion that they are forgeries.

When I was in London in October, 1920, an English journalist of distinction, well known and
influential on both sides of the Atlantic, with great earnestness and evident conviction sought
to impress me with the serious importance of these alleged Protocols of the Elders of Zion.
He was quite convinced that the documents were genuine, and that they proved beyond reasonable
doubt the existence of a world-wide Jewish conspiracy. With great solemnity and manifest sincerity
he sought to enlist my co-operation in defense of what he called "Anglo-Saxon civilization,"
which he seemed to regard as synonymous with Christian civilization. He was quite astonished
when I directed his attention to the fact that a well-known French writer, Louis Martin, had
published, as far back as 1895, a book in which he attempted to prove the existence of such
a world-wide Jewish conspiracy. My friend honestly believed that the existence of this conspiracy
had never been known or suspected prior to the publication of the work of the mysterious Sergei
Nilus. He was still more surprised when I told him that in his book, L'Anglais Est-Il un Juif?,
Martin had attempted to prove that the English people are part of the Jewish race, and that
the British government is the principal directing power of the conspiracy; so that the world-wide
Jewish conspiracy must, according to Martin, be understood as a secret compact between the
British government, as a Jewish organization, and the leaders of Jewry in all other lands.
Thus is the theory of a world-wide Jewish conspiracy reduced to absurdity. I confess that at
that time I was not aware that in the original Russian of the 1905 edition of the work of Nilus
this absurd theory of Martin had been reproduced, but carefully omitted from every English
translation published in this country and in England. The reason for the omission is obvious;
had the passage been given it would have made a laughing-stock of the protocols. I submit,
however, that the omission of such an important passage from the text of Nilus without any
reference to or explanation of the liberty taken with the text, places those responsible for
the several translations in a very unfavorable light.

In closing this chapter it is perhaps well that some record should be made of the sinister
use which was made of these alleged protocols during the World War. Not long after the United
States had begun active participation in the war against Germany, it came to my attention that
typewritten manuscripts purporting to prove that the war was part of a great conspiracy of
international Jews were being circulated. On at least three different occasions, early in 1918,
I was asked about this charge. I was told then that the British and American governments were
in a special sense the agents of this Jewish conspiracy. In July, 1918, in Paris, a fuller
account of the documents was given to me by a loyal Socialist, to whom they had been shown.
There was not then, as there is not now, the slightest doubt in my mind that the pro-German
propagandists resorted to this trick in order to weaken the morale of the principal Allied nations.

IV

IS SOCIALISM A JEWISH CONSPIRACY?

Upon the strength of statements made in this collection of documents of mysterious and suspicious
origin, a number of papers, including the Dearborn Independent and the London Morning Post,
have attempted to account for and explain the international Socialist movement as part of this
Jewish imperialistic conspiracy. Neither in the protocols themselves nor in the newspapers
making this particular charge has any shred of authentic evidence been adduced in its support.
True, a great deal has been made of the undeniable fact that Karl Marx, Ferdinand Lassalle,
Wilhelm Liebnecht, and other noted Socialists belonged to the Jewish race. Against this fact
might very well be set the equally undeniable fact that the foremost opponents of these men,
and of Socialism, were also of the Jewish race. Apparently, therefore, we are to believe that
the leaders of this Jewish conspiracy set up the Socialist movement and fostered it, while
at the same time they enlisted their ablest minds to defeat it. Surely for the normal mind
that is not obsessed this is a theory too absurd for belief.

Only those who are entirely ignorant of the history of Socialism and Socialist theories can
possibly hold this view of its Jewish origin. Long before Karl Marx appeared upon the scene
of action Socialism had already made an impress upon European thought. Marx was a boy of fifteen
when the word Socialism first appeared in print as designating the doctrines preached by Robert
Owen, the Welshman, for almost twenty years before that time. Was Owen the tool of Jewish conspirators?
I have read most of the literature relating to Owen's life and teaching, including his own
voluminous writings, and the innumerable controversies in which he was engaged throughout his
life. I have not discovered in all this mass of material a single trace of Jewish influence.
He had no Jewish friends or associates during the formative years, the period in which the
Socialist ideas and ideals shaped themselves. His Socialism was the direct outcome of his experience
as a successful manufacturer. He was not in any sense a man of books. From time to time he
required large sums of money for his enterprises. Surely, if those enterprises, and his life's
work as a whole, formed part of a great Jewish conspiracy which had behind it the vast financial
resources of Jewry, it would not have been difficult for him to secure the financial support
he needed. It is a fact of cardinal importance, therefore, that Owen never did receive Jewish
financial support. Those who would have us believe that Socialism originated as a part of the
great world-wide conspiracy of Jewish imperialism must first of all explain Robert Owen.

Nor does Owen stand alone in the history of Socialism among the Anglo-Saxon peoples. It is
a well-known fact, one to which he himself has called attention, that the most important of
the economic and sociological theories of Marx were held and promulgated before his time by
a number of British writers. As Professor Foxwell and others have shown, the roots of what
is called Marxian Socialist theory lie deep in the soil of British political economy. Karl
Marx devoted his typically Jewish genius to the exposition of Socialist theories, but the theories
themselves were not of Hebraic origin. It is the same with Bronterre O'Brien, the first to
call himself a Social Democrat. If any or all of these men were the agents of such a conspiracy,
it is remarkable that there should be an entire absence of evidence of that fact. It is quite
unbelievable that there was any sort of conspiracy which affected them. For the most part they
were poor and their books were published in pitifully small editions at great sacrifice to
themselves. Incidentally, it is worthy of note, Karl Marx, the Jew, suffered terrible poverty.
Certainly, all this does not suggest an international conspiracy backed by the Jewish leaders
of the financial world.

Because of the prominence of a few individual Jews in the American Socialist movement in recent
years, the writer of the anti-Semitic articles in the Dearborn Independent regards as proven
the theory that American Socialism originated in Jewish conspiracy. It is another evidence
of his entire ignorance of the subject concerning which he writes. If there is anything which
can be said about Socialism with certainty, it is that its fundamental theories are mainly
of Anglo-Saxon origin. Karl Marx was a boy of nine years when Robert Owen reprinted in England
an American Socialist pamphlet, written by an American workingman and published in America
a year or two earlier. At about the same time Thomas Cooper, of Columbia, South Carolina, published
his book in which the fundamental economic theories of modern Socialism were clearly expounded.
When Marx was no more than ten years old we find O.A. Brownson, editor of the Boston Quarterly
Review, vigorously preaching here in America the theory of the class war, the abolition of
the wage system, and the necessity for a triumph of the proletariat. We find such men as Thomas
Skidmore, R.L. Jennings, and L. Byllesby preaching thoroughgoing Socialism. In 1829 these men
and others were exercising a notable and considerable influence upon American thought. In vain
shall we search their writings and the meager accounts of their lives for any trace or suggestion
of Jewish influence or control.

I skip a decade and turn to the Fourierist period of American Socialism. The profound influence
of Charles Fourier upon Karl Marx is well known and has been the subject of much learned writing.
But if the Frenchman inspired the German Jew, so likewise did he inspire many American non-Jews,
the very flower of our race. It was Albert Brisbane who began the Fourierist agitation here,
and soon he had associated with him Horace Greeley, Parke Godwin, George Ripley, Charles A.
Dana, John S. Dwight, William Henry Channing, Margaret Fuller, John Orvis, Thomas Wentworth
Higginson, Edmund Clarence Stedman, and many others. Other distinguished Americans who were
brought into more or less sympathetic association with the movement included Nathaniel Hawthorne,
Ralph Waldo Emerson, James Russell Lowell, and Theodore Parker, among others. Certainly it
would be difficult to name a body of men and women more truly representative of the highest
and best of American life and genius. To suggest that these were all the agents of a Jewish
conspiracy, either consciously or unconsciously, is to invite and deserve ridicule. In truth,
Socialism is as Anglo-Saxon as Magna Charta and as American as the Declaration of Independence,
and we might as well attribute either or both of these to Jewish intrigue as Socialism. It
is true that the organized Socialist movement in America has long spoken with a foreign accent
and borne the imprint of an alien psychology, but that psychology, as I have elsewhere pointed
out, is German and not Hebraic.

It would take us too far afield to discuss the origin of French Socialism, even in this sketchy
fashion, but I can state with the assurance that is born of intimate knowledge that French
Socialism shows as little sign of having been inspired by alien influences, Jewish or other,
as British and American Socialism. I stress this point not because I would defend the Jews
against the charge that they have manifested unusual sympathy for Socialism (which, indeed,
if true, I should hold to be a virtuous distinction), nor to apologize for or to deny the splendid
contributions of individual Jews to the Socialist movement. My concern is to enter protest
against the charge that the Socialist movement of the world originated in the ambitions of
Jewish imperialists and is neither more nor less than part and parcel of a great international
Jewish conspiracy. That is a stupid travesty of history, and a dangerous one.

I have spent the greater part of my life in the Socialist movement, in close and intimate comradeship
with both Jews and Gentiles belonging to nearly every civilized nation. I am as proud of the
comradeship of my Jewish comrades as I am of that of any others. My readers will perhaps understand
that I deeply resent the implication that through all the years of struggle and sacrifice I
have been either the unconscious dupe or the willing agent of any kind of selfish conspiracy,
Jewish or other. It is, of course, difficult to disprove such an accusation brought against
a great movement, and, therefore, by implication against the individuals belonging to that
movement. If I should charge that Mr. Henry Ford is engaged in this anti-Semitic propaganda
for purely selfish and mercenary reasons, that he has become the spokesman and agent of great
unscrupulous capitalist interests who seek to destroy their Jewish competitors and to profit
thereby, he would find it difficult to establish the contrary by definite and concrete proof.
As a matter of justice, nothing of the sort should be expected. The burden of proof rests upon
the person making the accusation. In like fashion, when the Dearborn Independent charges that
the international Socialist movement is one of the agents of a vicious Jewish conspiracy against
Christian civilization, it is in honor bound to submit proofs. This it has not done, nor has
any other paper making the charge. I know that the charge is a cruel and cowardly falsehood,
a libel upon millions of honest and honorable men and women, to utter which is an infamy and
degradation.

The charge is one that has been leveled against practically every movement of protest that
has been developed in modern times. It was leveled against the Protestant Reformation; against
the French Revolution; against Mazzini and his followers in Italy; against the German Revolutionists
of 1848; against British Trade-Unionists. I have no doubt that a little research would reveal
the fact that the same charge was directed against the Abolitionists in this country. Vicious
interests are never very scrupulous in their choice of weapons. In those Protestant countries
in which the number of Catholics is much larger than the number of Jews it is a common practice
to charge that movements of protest and revolt are instigated and led by the Catholic hierarchy.
Where the number of Jews is very great the appeal is made to racial hatred. In Catholic countries,
in the same way, accusation is directed against Protestantism or Judaism, according to circumstance.

Wherever and by whosoever made, appeals to racial and religious prejudices and hatreds in defense
of vested interests merit the condemnation of all honest and righteous men. When made in a
country which, like the United States, possesses millions of peoples of many diverse lands
and races not yet welded into national homogeneity, who must live and work together, such accusations
become the most dangerous form of treason. Whoever propagates in this country antagonism to
any race or creed represented in our citizenship, whether it be against Jews, Poles, Germans,
Irish, English, or negroes; or against Judaism, Catholicism, or Protestantism, assails the
very foundation of our most cherished and characteristic American institutions.

V

THE JEWISH SOCIALISTS AND BOLSHEVISM

The anti-Semitic press of both hemispheres charges that Bolshevism in Russia and elsewhere
is a movement instigated and led by Jews, as part of a great conspiracy to bring about the
Jewish domination of the world. The reasons for making this charge are only too obvious. Bolshevism
is repugnant to the great mass of civilized mankind, by whom it is rightly regarded as a sort
of moral leprosy. Whatever may be thought of the possibility of Sovietism in industry and government,
Bolshevism, the spiritual dynamic as distinguished from the mechanical agent, is the negation
of every virtuous principle which mankind holds in reverence. It frankly bases government upon
brute force wielded by the few, and denies the ideal toward which all nations are striving,
the ideal of government based upon the sanction of the governed. It unites in a terrible synthesis
all the worst agencies and methods of tsarism and of militarism. To persuade the people of
this or any other civilized country that Bolshevism is essentially a Jewish movement, part
of a conspiracy to reduce civilization to chaos, and so prepare the way for a Jewish supergovernment
of the world, would mean the rapid organization of the rest of the population against the Jews
in every phase of life--politics, commerce, industry, education, social intercourse, and so on.

In support of this most serious charge not a single shred of credible evidence has ever been
adduced by any anti-Semitic writer or organ. For the universally known fact that there are
Jews among the leaders of Bolshevism, in Russia and elsewhere, is not evidence that Bolshevism
is essentially or primarily a Jewish movement; neither is it evidence that Bolshevism is a
part of a Jewish conspiracy to obtain world domination. All that it proves is that which needs
no proof--that there are Jews among the Bolsheviki. I repeat that in support of the charge
not a shred of credible evidence has ever been adduced. In that shameful book, The Cause of
World Unrest, consisting of articles reprinted from the London Morning Post, the anonymous
author gives a list of fifty names of "persons who either are the actual governing powers in
Soviet Russia now or were responsible for the establishment of the present regime there." There
is both guile and cowardice in the latter part of this charge. It is easy to argue, with a
certain plausibility, that every person who helped in the revolution of March, 1917, must be
held "responsible for the establishment of the present regime." I have heard many Russians
make the charge that Kerensky, the anti-Bolshevist, was "responsible" for the establishment
of the Bolshevist regime. I have heard others charge the same thing against such men as Rodzianko,
Prince Lvov, and Professor Miliukov. What these Russians meant was that the failure of these
men and others to deal properly with the situation existing at the time of the March revolution
made the triumph of Bolshevism possible. In that sense, we might as well go back a stage farther
and present the names of Tsar Nicholas II and all his responsible Ministers as "persons who
... were responsible for the establishment of the present regime." This, however, is not what
the Morning Post desires to convey to the mind of the reader. It insinuates, in a most cowardly
fashion, that the fifty persons named by it are Bolsheviki and falsely alleges that of the
fifty no less than forty-two are Jews.

Concerning this list of names a few observations are necessary. The compiler of the list was
not honest; he did not intend to place the reader in possession of the truth. This is evidenced
by several facts. In the first place, many influential leaders of the Bolsheviki whose names
are familiar to all who have given even ordinary attention to the subject are conspicuously
absent. The reason for the omission is that these men are non-Jews. Their inclusion in the
list would have destroyed the author's charge. He has suppressed important facts in the interest
of his wretched case. I searched the list in vain for the names of such prominent leaders of
the Bolshevist movement as Bucharin, Rakovsky, Miliutin, Raskolnikov, Shliapnikov, Latzis,
Rykov, Stalin, Krestinsky, Bonch-Brouyevich, Dybenko, Dzerzhinsky, Krylenko, Gorky, Andreyeva,
Nogin, Platakov, Kalinin, Boky, and many others less well known. Anyone who is at all familiar
with the subject will recognize in the names I have here given some of the most active and
influential leaders of the Bolsheviki. Not one of them is a Jew, and I submit that to omit
them from a list of names which pretends to be representative is as dishonest as it is cowardly.

The list is thoroughly dishonest, moreover, in that it sets down as Jews men who are well known
to be Gentiles. For example, Manouilsky, number forty-six on the list, is described as a Jew,
whereas it is well known that he is a Gentile, a Ukrainian. Bogdanov, number ten on the list,
is likewise wrongfully described. His real name is not Silberstein, as alleged, but Malinovsky.
Neither is he a Jew, as alleged, but a Gentile, a Russian. These two illustrations will serve
to show how little reliance can be placed upon the list. Whether there are other misrepresentations
of the same kind I am unable to say, for the reason that the list contains many names of persons
who do not hold and have not held any important position in Russia, either under the Bolsheviki
or the earlier Provisional Government headed by Kerensky. These persons are absolutely unknown
to me, even by name, and they are equally unknown to every Russian revolutionary leader to
whom I have submitted them. It is quite probable, therefore, that these names of alleged Jews
hide the identity of men who are not Jews at all.

Not only does this precious list studiously omit many of the principal leaders of the Bolshevist
regime simply because they are not Jews, and misrepresent well-known Gentiles as Jews; quite
as bad is the fact that it includes many names of men who are not only not supporters of the
Bolshevist regime, but actually leaders of the most determined opposition to it. Here is a
list which is submitted in proof of the charge that "nearly all the Bolshevist leaders are
Jews," and in that list I find the names of ten men who are known to me to be among the most
active leaders of the struggle against the Bolsheviki, men who have made heroic sacrifices
and risked their lives in that fight. I say that the list includes the names of ten men known
to me to be bitter opponents of Bolshevism; there may be others concerning whom I am not informed.

Included in the list I find the name of Izgoev (forty-three), for instance. His real name is
alleged to be Goldman, when in fact it is Landau. Not only is he not a Bolshevik, but, as everybody
familiar with the Russian movement knows, one of the active publicists of the Russian Constitutional
Democratic party. Orthodoks, number thirty-five on the list, is not a Bolshevik, but one of
the most active members of the group of so-called Socialist Patriots, the "Unity" group organized
by the late George Plechanov to support the Allied war aims, an organization that did much
to strengthen Russian morale in the early stages of the war and which has vigorously and bitterly
opposed Bolshevism and all its ways. Bounakov, number forty-five on the list, is also a leader
of the anti-Bolshevist forces. When I was in Paris recently he was there actively engaged with
other Socialists in carrying on anti-Bolshevist propaganda. Kamkov, number fifteen on the list,
was one of the leaders of the Socialists-Revolutionists party, a determined opponent of the
Bolsheviki. According to the best information at my command, he was one of the men responsible
for the assassination of the German ambassador, Count von Mirbach, which was a protest against
the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, and was put to death by the Bolsheviki. Gorev, number eleven on
the list, has consistently opposed Bolshevism with the rest of his colleagues of the Mensheviki.
The same thing is true of Abramovich (twenty-four), of Dan (seventeen), of Martinov (twenty-one),
of Martov (four), and of Meshkovsky (eighteen).

The anonymous author of The Cause of World Unrest says of this list that it is "the result
of much labor and the work of several hands." I do not need to characterize it, in the light
of the foregoing analysis. The facts to which I have called attention can be very readily verified.
I submit that most abject apology is due to the reader from everybody concerned in the preparation
and circulation of this book--from the anonymous author, the compiler of the list, the London
Morning Post, and the publishers. There is nothing more contemptible than such poisoning of
the wells of public information.

For the present I have finished with the Morning Post. Let us turn now to Mr. Ford's Dearborn
Independent. In its issue of May 29, 1920, this organ of American anti-Semitism desperately
tries to bolster up the charge that nearly all the leaders of the Bolsheviki are Jews by a
clumsy invention of its own. It says:

    Every commisar in Russia to-day is a Jew. Publicists are
    accustomed to speak of Russia as if it were in disorder, but the
    Jewish government of Russia is not. From a mass of underlings,
    the Jews of Russia came up in a perfect phalanx, a flying wedge
    through the superinduced disorder, as if every man's place had
    been previously prepared for him.

For these statements there is no justification in fact. They are absolutely and unqualifiedly
untrue, as every person familiar with the facts must know. It is not true that "every commissar
in Russia to-day is a Jew." Not even a majority of the members of the Council of People's Commissars
are Jews. Lenin, who is at the head of the government, is not a Jew. Tchitcherin, who is in
charge of foreign affairs, is not a Jew. Krassin, who is in charge of the trade negotiations
with the British government, is not a Jew. These three men wield greater power and influence
in Soviet Russia than all the Jewish officials combined. Dzerzhinsky, head of the infamous
Extraordinary Commissions, is not a Jew. Lunarcharsky, who has charge of public education,
is not a Jew. Rykov, chairman of the Economic Council, is not a Jew. Bonch-Brouyevich, secretary
of the Council of People's Commissars, is not a Jew. Kolontai is not a Jewess. There are many
other Gentile Commissars. How completely the London Morning Post and the Dearborn Independent
misrepresent the essential facts I have already shown by my analysis of the pretentious list
of fifty names published by the former. I have before me the official list of the members of
the Sovnarkom--that is, the Council of the People's Commissars of the Soviet government. As
is well known, the elaborate and intricate governmental system of Soviet Russia centers ultimate
authority in this Council of People's Commissars, which consists of seventeen members. A most
striking refutation of the statement made by the Dearborn Independent is found in the fact
that of the seventeen members of this supreme Bolshevist authority only one, Trotzky, is a
Jew. The official list speaks for itself.

Official Name             Real Name          Department

1. N. Lenin[1]              Oulianov             President
2. G. Tchitcherin[1]        G. Tchitcherin       Foreign Affairs
3. L. Trotsky[2]            Bronstein            War
4. E. Raskolnikov[1]        E. Raskolnikov       Navy
5. G. Petrovsky[1]          G. Petrovsky         Interior
6. N. Krestinsky[1]         N. Krestinsky        Finance
7. L. Krassin[1]            L. Krassin           Industry and Commerce
                                                   and Ways of
                                                   Communication
8. S. Sereda[1]             S. Sereda            Agriculture
9. N. Bruchanov[1]          N. Bruchanov         Supply
10. A. Lunarcharsky[1]      A. Lunarcharsky      Public Instruction
11. V. Stuchka[1]           V. Stuchka           Justice
12. A. Kolontai[1]          A. Kolontai          Public Welfare
13. V. Smidt[1]             V. Smidt             Labor
14. A. Rykov[1]             A. Rykov             Chairman, Economic
                                                   Council
15. K. Stalin[3]            Djugashvili          National Affairs
16. Dr. N. Semashko[1]      Dr. N. Semashko      Public Health
17. V. Bonch-Brouyevich[1]  V. Bonch-Brouyevich  Executive secretary
                                                   of the Council of
                                                   People's Commissars
[1] Russian     [2] Jew     [3] Georgian

Of course there are many Jews holding minor positions in the Bolshevist regime. It would be
quite impossible to name any part of the Russian population to which that statement would not
equally apply. For millions of people, Christians and Jews alike, the only possible alternative
to starvation and death is to accept service under the Bolsheviki. Even loyal generals of the
Tsar's army have accepted such service in order to avoid the starvation of themselves and their
loved ones, despite their hatred of Bolshevism and the Bolsheviki. It is a fact, however, that
there are very few Jews holding responsible posts in the Bolshevist government of Russia, while
there are many Jews prominently identified with the anti-Bolshevist movement. I have followed
very closely the accounts of the proceedings of the Bolshevist movement and of the Communist
party, as reported in the official press, and have paid special attention to the activity of
the Jews. Up to the present my list of Jews holding prominent positions in either the Soviet
government or the Communist party contains less than twenty names, yet I believe it is fairly
complete. It includes the names of Trotzky, Steklov, Zinoviev, Kamenev, Uritsky, Volodarsky,
Sverdlov, Ganetsky, Helfandt (Parvus), Riazanov, Radek, Litvinov, Joffe, and Larin. It will
be rather difficult, I think, to name any important omissions. As against this meager list
of Jews, a very hastily compiled list of non-Jews who are prominent in the government or in
the Communist party contains seventy-five names. In this list I do not include any of the many
former generals of the Tsar's army now holding important positions in the Red Army and various
departments of the Soviet government. With entire confidence I submit these incontestable facts
to my readers in reply to the Dearborn Independent.

It is absurdly untrue to say, as the Dearborn Independent does, that "the Jews of Russia came
up in a perfect phalanx" after the overthrow of tsarism. Throughout the revolutionary period
the Jews in Russia have presented about the same political divisions as the Russian population
in general. Like the overwhelming mass of the Russian people, they are anti-Bolshevist. Even
if we confine our attention to the Jewish Socialists, overlooking for the moment the large
number of Jews belonging to the Constitutional Democrats and other non-Socialist parties, we
shall find absolutely no evidence of anything approaching a united Jewish Socialist support
of the Bolsheviki. On the contrary, the most implacable and determined opponents of the Bolsheviki
have been, and still are, Jewish Socialists. Such Jews as Martov, Dan, Lieber, Abramovich,
and others have distinguished themselves by their relentless and unremitting opposition to
the Bolsheviki.

