"Some o' the wimmen tried to get somethin' out o' Quassy. Lordy massy! you might as well 'a'
tried to get it out an old tom-turkey, that'll strut and gobble and quitter, and drag his wings
on the ground, and fly at you, but won't say nothin'. Quassy she screeched her queer sort o'
laugh; and she told 'em that they was a makin' fools o' themselves, and that the cap'n's matters
wa'n't none o' their bisness; and that was true enough. As to goin' into Quassia's room, or
into any o' the store-rooms or closets she kep' the keys of, you might as well hev gone into
a lion's den. She kep' all her places locked up tight; and there was no gettin' at nothin'
in the Cap'n Brown house, else I believe some o' the wimmen would 'a' sent a sarch-warrant."

"Well," said I, "what came of it? Didn't anybody ever find out?"

"Wal," said Sam, "it come to an end sort o', and didn't come to an end. It was jest this 'ere
way. You see, along in October, jest in the cider-makin' time, Abel Flint he was took down
with dysentery and died. You 'member the Flint house: it stood on a little rise o' ground jest
lookin' over towards the Brown house. Wal, there was Aunt Sally Dickerson and the Widder Bije
Smith, they set up with the corpse. He was laid out in the back chamber, you see, over the
milk-room and kitchen; but there was cold victuals and sich in the front chamber, where the
watchers sot. Wal, now, Aunt Sally she told me that between three and four o'clock she heard
wheels a rumblin', and she went to the winder, and it was clear starlight; and she see a coach
come up to the Cap'n Brown house; and she see the cap'n come out bringin' a woman all wrapped
in a cloak, and old Quassy came arter with her arms full o' bundles; and he put her into the
kerridge, and shet her in, and it driv off; and she see old Quassy stand lookin' over the fence
arter it. She tried to wake up the widder, but 'twas towards mornin', and the widder allers
was a hard sleeper; so there wa'n't no witness but her.'

"Well, then, it wasn't a ghost," said I, "after all, and it was a woman."

"Wal, there 'tis, you see. Folks don't know that 'are yit, 'cause there it's jest as broad
as 'tis long. Now, look at it. There's Cinthy, she's a good, pious gal: she locks her chamber-doors,
both on 'em, and goes to bed, and wakes up in the night, and there's a woman there. She jest
shets her eyes, and the woman's gone. She gits up and looks, and both doors is locked jest
as she left 'em. That 'ere woman wa'n't flesh and blood now, no way,--not such flesh and blood
as we knows on; but then they say Cinthy might hev dreamed it!

"Wal, now, look at it t'other way. There's Aunt Sally Dickerson; she's a good woman and a church-member:
wal, she sees a woman in a cloak with all her bundles brought out o' Cap'n Brown's house, and
put into a kerridge, and driv off, atween three and four o'clock in the mornin'. Wal, that
'ere shows there must 'a' ben a real live woman kep' there privately, and so what Cinthy saw
wasn't a ghost.

"Wal, now, Cinthy says Aunt Sally might 'a' dreamed it,--that she got her head so full o' stories
about the Cap'n Brown house, and watched it till she got asleep, and hed this 'ere dream; and,
as there didn't nobody else see it, it might 'a' ben, you know. Aunt Sally's clear she didn't
dream, and then agin Cinthy's clear she didn't dream; but which on 'em was awake, or which
on 'em was asleep, is what ain't settled in Oldtown yet."

[Note: The two last stories in the printed book are not included as they have missing pages.]