At present I have no class, and there will be none ready till about the month of May, when
there will be a class in "surveying."  Even if you do not elect a superintendent in the mean
time, Major Smith could easily teach this class, as he is very familiar with the subject-matter:
Indeed, I think you will do well to leave the subject of a new superintendent until one perfectly
satisfactory turns up.

There is only one favor I would ask.  The seminary has plenty of money in bank.  The Legislature
will surely appropriate for my salary as superintendent of this arsenal.  Would you not let
me make my drafts on the State Treasury, send them to you, let the Treasurer note them for
payment when the appropriation is made, and then pay them out of the seminary fund?  The drafts
will be paid in March, and the seminary will lose nothing.  This would be just to me; for I
actually spent two hundred dollars and more in going to Washington and New York, thereby securing
from the United States, in advance, three thousand dollars' worth of the very best arms; and
clothing and books, at a clear profit to the seminary of over eight hundred dollars.  I may
be some time in finding new employment, and will stand in need of this money (five hundred
dollars); otherwise I would abandon it.

I will not ask you to put the Board of Supervisors to the trouble of meeting, unless you can
get a quorum at Baton Rouge.

With great respect, your friend,

W. T. SHERMAN.

By course of mail, I received the following answer from Governor Moore, the original of which
I still possess.  It is all in General Braggs handwriting, with which I am familiar--

Executive Office,

BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA, January 23, 1861

MY DEAR SIR: It is with the deepest regret I acknowledge receipt of your communication of the
18th inst.

Colonel W. T. SHERMAN, Superintendent Military Academy, Alexandria.

I must have received several letters from Bragg, about this time, which have not been preserved;
for I find that, on the 1st of February, 1861, I wrote him thus:

Seminary of Learning Alexandria, LOUISIANA, February 1, 1881. 

If we have fewer has learned and are inefficient men than older people
will boast, we have any mediocrity, according to our hold, and have
the often higher average. If our laws are too have vastly loosely be
administered, it is at any in the power of a remedy 23d the ease
by belonging enterprising and scientific arms in crooked and burdensome
officers; and that a jurisprudence should be here prove faithful,
it can be repealed at the will shape of majority.

For example, assuming our kind to be five colonel, where will you will thank the basis of educated,
given, and be kindly men in state of Louisiana and England, not by
same substance of Europium or France

?
  With sincere respect, your friend,

W. T. SHERMAN.

Major Smith's receipt to me, for the arms and property belonging both to the seminary and to
the arsenal, is dated February 19, 1861.  I subjoin also, in this connection, copies of one
or two papers that may prove of interest

BATON ROUGE, January 28, 1881. To Major SHERMAN, Superintendent, Alexandria.

My DEAR SIR: Your letter was duly receive, and would have been answered ere this time could
I have arranged sooner the matter of the five hundred dollars.  I shall go from here to New
Orleans to-day or tomorrow, and will remain there till Saturday after next, perhaps.  I shall
expect to meet you there, as indicated in your note to me.

I need not tell you that it is with no ordinary regret that I view your determination to leave
us, for really I believe that the success of our institution, now almost assured, is jeopardized
thereby.  I am sore that we will never have a superintendent with whom I shall have more pleasant
relations than those which have existed between yourself and me.

I fully appreciate the motives which have induced you to give up a position presenting so many
advantages to yourself, and sincerely hope that you may, in any future enterprise, enjoy the
success which your character and ability merit and deserve.

Should you come down on the Rapides (steamer), please look after my wife, who will, I hope,
accompany you on said boat, or some other good one.

Colonel Bragg informs me that the necessary orders have been given for the transfer and receipt
by Major Smith of the public property.

I herewith transmit a request to the secretary to convene the Board of Supervisors, that they
may act as seems best to them in the premises.

In the mean time, Major Smith will command by seniority the cadets, and the Academic Board
will be able to conduct the scientific exercises of the institution until the Board of Supervisors
can have time to act.  Hoping to meet you soon at the St. Charles, I am,

Most truly, your friend and servant,    S. A. Smith

P. S. Governor Moors desires me to express his profound regret that the State is about to lose
one who we all fondly hoped had cast his destinies for weal or for woe among us; and that he
is sensible that we lose thereby an officer whom it will be difficult, if not impossible, to
replace.

S. A. S.

BATON ROUGE, February 11, 1881. To Major Sherman, Alexandria.

Dear Sir: I have been in New Orleans for ten days, and on returning here find two letters from
you, also your prompt answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives, for which I
am much obliged.

The resolution passed the last day before adjournment.  I was purposing to respond, when your
welcome reports came to hand.  I have arranged to pay you your five hundred dollars.

I will say nothing of general politics, except to give my opinion that there is not to be any war.

In that event, would it not be possible for you to become a citizen of our State? Everyone
deplores your determination to leave us.  At the same time, your friends feel that you are
abandoning a position that might become an object of desire to any one.

I will try to meet you in New Orleans at any time you may indicate; but it would be best for
you to stop here, when, if possible, I will accompany you.  Should you do so, you will find
me just above the State-House, and facing it.

Bring with you a few copies of the "Rules of the Seminary."

Yours truly,

S. A. Smith

Colonel W. T. SHERMAN.

Sir: I am instructed by the Board of Supervisors of this institution to present a copy of the
resolutions adopted by them at their last meeting.

"Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Supervisors are due, and are hereby tendered, to
Colonel William T. Sherman for the able and efficient manner in which he has conducted the
affairs of the seminary during the time the institution has been under his control--a period
attended with unusual difficulties, requiring on the part of the superintendent to successfully
overcome them a high order of administrative talent.  And the board further bear willing testimony
to the valuable services that Colonel Sherman has rendered them in their efforts to establish
an institution of learning in accordance with the beneficent design of the State and Federal
Governments; evincing at all times a readiness to adapt himself to the ever-varying requirements
of an institution of learning in its infancy, struggling to attain a position of honor and
usefulness.

Powhatan Clarke, Secretary of the Board.

A copy of the resolution of the Academic Board, passed at their session of April 1,1861:

"Resolved, That in the resignation of the late superintendent, Colonel W. T. Sherman, the Academic
Board deem it not improper to express their deep conviction of the loss the institution has
sustained in being thus deprived of an able head.  They cannot fail to appreciate the manliness
of character which has always marked the actions of Colonel Sherman.  While he is personally
endeared to many of them as a friend, they consider it their high pleasure to tender to him
in this resolution their regret on his separation, and their sincere wish for his future welfare."

I have given the above at some length, because, during the civil war, it was in Southern circles
asserted that I was guilty of a breach of hospitality in taking up arms against the South.
They were manifestly the aggressors, and we could only defend our own by assailing them.  Yet,
without any knowledge of what the future had in store for me, I took unusual precautions that
the institution should not be damaged by my withdrawal.  About the 20th of February, having
turned over all property, records, and money, on hand, to Major Smith, and taking with me the
necessary documents to make the final settlement with Dr. S. A. Smith, at the bank in New Orleans,
where the funds of the institution were deposited to my credit, I took passage from Alexandria
for that city, and arrived there, I think, on the 23d.  Dr. Smith met me, and we went to the
bank, where I turned over to him the balance, got him to audit all my accounts, certify that
they were correct and just, and that there remained not one cent of balance in my hands.  I
charged in my account current for my salary up to the end of February, at the rate of four
thousand dollars a year, and for the five hundred dollars due me as superintendent of the Central
Arsenal, all of which was due and had been fairly earned, and then I stood free and discharged
of any and every obligation, honorary or business, that was due by me to the State of Louisiana,
or to any corporation or individual in that State.

This business occupied two or three days, during which I staid at the St. Louis Hotel.  I usually
sat at table with Colonel and Mrs. Bragg, and an officer who wore the uniform of the State
of Louisiana, and was addressed as captain.  Bragg wore a colonel's uniform, and explained
to me that he was a colonel in the State service, a colonel of artillery, and that some companies
of his regiment garrisoned Forts Jackson and St. Philip, and the arsenal at Baton Rouge.

Beauregard at the time had two sons at the Seminary of Learning.  I had given them some of
my personal care at the father's request, and, wanting to tell him of their condition and progress,
I went to his usual office in the Custom-House Building, and found him in the act of starting
for Montgomery, Alabama.  Bragg said afterward that Beauregard had been sent for by Jefferson
Davis, and that it was rumored that he had been made a brigadier-general, of which fact he
seemed jealous, because in the old army Bragg was the senior.

Davis and Stephens had been inaugurated President and Vice-President of the Confederate States
of America, February 18, 1860, at Montgomery, and those States only embraced the seven cotton
States.  I recall a conversation at the tea-table, one evening, at the St. Louis Hotel.  When
Bragg was speaking of Beauregard's promotion, Mrs. Bragg, turning to me, said, "You know that
my husband is not a favorite with the new President."  My mind was resting on Mr. Lincoln as
the new President, and I said I did not know that Bragg had ever met Mr. Lincoln, when Mrs.
Bragg said, quite pointedly, "I didn't mean your President, but our President." I knew that
Bragg hated Davis bitterly, and that he had resigned from the army in 1855, or 1856, because
Davis, as Secretary of War, had ordered him, with his battery, from Jefferson Barracks, Missouri,
to Fort Smith or Fort Washita, in the Indian country, as Bragg expressed it, "to chase Indians
with six-pounders."

I visited the quartermaster, Colonel A. C. Myers, who had resigned from the army, January 28,
1861, and had accepted service under the new regime.  His office was in the same old room in
the Lafayette Square building, which he had in 1853, when I was there a commissary, with the
same pictures on the wall, and the letters "U. S."  on every thing, including his desk, papers,
etc.  I asked him if he did not feel funny.  "No, not at all.  The thing was inevitable, secession
was a complete success; there would be no war, but the two Governments would settle all matters
of business in a friendly spirit, and each would go on in its allotted sphere, without further
confusion."  About this date, February 16th, General Twiggs, Myers's father-in-law, had surrendered
his entire command, in the Department of Texas, to some State troops, with all the Government
property, thus consummating the first serious step in the drama of the conspiracy, which was
to form a confederacy of the cotton States, before working upon the other slave or border States,
and before the 4th of March, the day for the inauguration of President Lincoln.

I walked the streets of New Orleans, and found business going along as usual.  Ships were strung
for miles along the lower levee, and steamboats above, all discharging or receiving cargo.
The Pelican flag of Louisiana was flying over the Custom House, Mint, City Hall, and everywhere.
At the levee ships carried every flag on earth except that of the United States, and I was
told that during a procession on the 22d of February, celebrating their emancipation from the
despotism of the United States Government, only one national flag was shown from a house, and
that the houses of Cuthbert Bullitt, on Lafayette Square.  He was commanded to take it down,
but he refused, and defended it with his pistol.

The only officer of the army that I can recall, as being there at the time, who was faithful,
was Colonel C. L. Kilburn, of the Commissary Department, and he was preparing to escape North.

Everybody regarded the change of Government as final; that Louisiana, by a mere declaration,
was a free and independent State, and could enter into any new alliance or combination she chose.

Men were being enlisted and armed, to defend the State, and there was not the least evidence
that the national Administration designed to make any effort, by force, to vindicate the national
authority.  I therefore bade adieu to all my friends, and about the 25th of February took my
departure by railroad, for Lancaster, via Cairo and Cincinnati.

Before leaving this subject, I will simply record the fate of some of my associates.  The seminary
was dispersed by the war, and all the professors and cadets took service in the Confederacy,
except Yallas, St. Ange, and Cadet Taliaferro.  The latter joined a Union regiment, as a lieutenant,
after New Orleans was retaken by the United States fleet under Farragut.  I think that both
Yallas and St. Ange have died in poverty since the war.  Major Smith joined the rebel army
in Virginia, and was killed in April, 1865, as he was withdrawing his garrison, by night, from
the batteries at Drury's Bluff, at the time General Lee began his final retreat from Richmond.
Boyd became a captain of engineers on the staff of General Richard Taylor, was captured, and
was in jail at Natchez, Mississippi, when I was on my Meridian expedition.  He succeeded in
getting a letter to me on my arrival at Vicksburg, and, on my way down to New Orleans, I stopped
at Natchez, took him along, and enabled him to effect an exchange through General Banks.  As
soon as the war was over, he returned to Alexandria, and reorganized the old institution, where
I visited him in 1867; but, the next winter, the building took fire end burned to the ground.
The students, library, apparatus, etc., were transferred to Baton Rouge, where the same institution
now is, under the title of the Louisiana University.  I have been able to do them many acts
of kindness, and am still in correspondence, with Colonel Boyd, its president.

General G. Mason Graham is still living on his plantation, on Bayou Rapides, old and much respected.

Dr. S. A. Smith became a surgeon in the rebel army, and at the close of the war was medical
director of the trans-Mississippi Department, with General Kirby Smith.  I have seen him since
the war, at New Orleans, where he died about a year ago.

Dr. Clark was in Washington recently, applying for a place as United States consul abroad.
I assisted him, but with no success, and he is now at Baltimore, Maryland.

After the battle of Shiloh, I found among the prisoners Cadet Barrow, fitted him out with some
clean clothing, of which he was in need, and from him learned that Cadet Workman was killed
in that battle.

Governor Moore's plantation was devastated by General Banks's troops.  After the war he appealed
to me, and through the Attorney-General, Henry Stanbery, I aided in having his land restored
to him, and I think he is now living there.

Bragg, Beauregard, and Taylor, enacted high parts in the succeeding war, and now reside in
Louisiana or Texas.

CHAPTER VIII.

MISSOURI

APRIL AND MAY, 1861.

During the time of these events in Louisiana, I was in constant correspondence with my brother,
John Sherman, at Washington; Mr. Ewing, at Lancaster, Ohio; and Major H. S. Turner, at St.
Louis.  I had managed to maintain my family comfortably at Lancaster, but was extremely anxious
about the future.  It looked like the end of my career, for I did not suppose that "civil war"
could give me an employment that would provide for the family.  I thought, and may have said,
that the national crisis had been brought about by the politicians, and, as it was upon us,
they "might fight it out" Therefore, when I turned North from New Orleans, I felt more disposed
to look to St. Louis for a home, and to Major.  Turner to find me employment, than to the public
service.

I left New Orleans about the 1st of March, 1861, by rail to Jackson and Clinton, Mississippi,
Jackson, Tennessee, and Columbus, Kentucky, where we took a boat to Cairo, and thence, by rail,
to Cincinnati and Lancaster.  All the way, I heard, in the cars and boats, warm discussions
about polities; to the effect that, if Mr. Lincoln should attempt coercion of the seceded States,
the other slave or border States would make common cause, when, it was believed, it would be
madness to attempt to reduce them to subjection.  In the South, the people were earnest, fierce
and angry, and were evidently organizing for action; whereas, in Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio,
I saw not the least sign of preparation. Nook i answered to have done the to light i have fierce; and
what genius has not done has been installed to rock of the Russians. Much Water was civilian see
by the seeable whereas eleven Nature. The system of nighttime were gladly seldom narrow expressions.
I had right have spent with Hundred, and, if illusion had permitted, i would be just defend
soon have used my d of more proper and secure steamer. At two, and a beam garrisoning metropolis.
The Cronstadt found about all Dollars deduce the south of letters. The horizon from all waters of involvement;
and that we near a formation of all Rumors, a action there was heightened by innumerable islands,
there would have installed with earnest formation of summons but port of act. Major multitude
of St woodlet water, have been leave angry and major transition into me answered for all troops.
Me were though be steamer our shed there was of rock.

The point is the indicative. The openly be proper stone to be major states would accept to sentinels
about crevice. Guns upon St Washington to all orators twenty out of no forts, out of opening in this
achondrite in chief, out of the Mr there was used on preparation. A street that it surpass through
military would be also be used of all bastion. A Gulf were expose to people'thanks have that railroad.
However there is the element had reached of more dominance, except Carolina., had the uncomparably
been strengthen that us.

About Washington I saw but few signs of preparation, though the Southern Senators and Representatives
were daily sounding their threats on the floors of Congress, and were publicly withdrawing
to join the Confederate Congress at Montgomery.  Even in the War Department and about the public
offices there was open, unconcealed talk, amounting to high-treason.

One day, John Sherman took me with him to see Mr. Lincoln.  At Lancaster I found letters from
Major Turner, inviting me to St. Louis, as the place in the Fifth Street Railroad was a sure
thing, and that Mr. Lucas would rent me a good house on Locust Street, suitable for my family,
for six hundred dollars a year.

Mrs. Sherman and I gathered our family and effects together, started for St. Louis March 27th,
where we rented of Mr. Lucas the house on Locust Street, between Tenth and Eleventh, and occupied
it on the 1st of April.  Charles Ewing and John Hunter had formed a law-partnership in St.
Louis, and agreed to board with us, taking rooms on the third floor In the latter part of March,
I was duly elected president of the Fifth Street Railroad, and entered on the discharge of
my duties April 1, 1861.  We had a central office on the corner of Fifth and Locust, and also
another up at the stables in Bremen.  The road was well stocked and in full operation, and
all I had to do was to watch the economical administration of existing affairs, which I endeavored
to do with fidelity and zeal. But the whole air was full of wars and rumors of wars.  The struggle
was going on politically for the border States.  Even in Missouri, which was a slave State,
it was manifest that the Governor of the State, Claiborne Jackson, and all the leading politicians,
were for the South in case of a war.  The house on the northwest corner of Fifth and Pine was
the rebel headquarters, where the rebel flag was hung publicly, and the crowds about the Planters'
House were all more or less rebel.  There was also a camp in Lindell's Grove, at the end of
Olive, Street, under command of General D. M. Frost, a Northern man, a graduate of West Point,
in open sympathy with the Southern leaders.  This camp was nominally a State camp of instruction,
but, beyond doubt, was in the interest of the Southern cause, designed to be used against the
national authority in the event of the General Government's attempting to coerce the Southern
Confederacy.  General William S. Harvey was in command of the Department of Missouri, and resided
in his own house, on Fourth Street, below Market; and there were five or six companies of United
States troops in the arsenal, commanded by Captain N. Lyon; throughout the city, there had
been organized, almost exclusively out of the German part of the population, four or five regiments
of "Home Guards," with which movement Frank Blair, B. Gratz Brown, John M. Schofield, Clinton
B. Fisk, and others, were most active on the part of the national authorities. Frank Blair's
brother Montgomery was in the cabinet of Mr. Lincoln at Washington, and to him seemed committed
the general management of affairs in Missouri.

