A month later, after his return to England, he was unexpectedly relieved from these alternatives
of extenuation and approval. A paragraph in the morning paper announced the sudden death of
Doctor Lombard, the distinguished English dilettante who had long resided in Siena. Wyant's
justification was complete. Our blindest impulses become evidence of perspicacity when they
fall in with the course of events.

Wyant could now comfortably speculate on the particular complications from which his foresight
had probably saved him. The climax was unexpectedly dramatic. Miss Lombard, on the brink of
a step which, whatever its issue, would have burdened her with retrospective compunction, had
been set free before her suitor's ardor could have had time to cool, and was now doubtless
planning a life of domestic felicity on the proceeds of the Leonardo. One thing, however, struck
Wyant as odd--he saw no mention of the sale of the picture. He had scanned the papers for an
immediate announcement of its transfer to one of the great museums; but presently concluding
that Miss Lombard, out of filial piety, had wished to avoid an appearance of unseemly haste
in the disposal of her treasure, he dismissed the matter from his mind. Other affairs happened
to engage him; the months slipped by, and gradually the lady and the picture dwelt less vividly
in his mind.

It was not till five or six years later, when chance took him again to Siena, that the recollection
started from some inner fold of memory. He found himself, as it happened, at the head of Doctor
Lombard's street, and glancing down that grim thoroughfare, caught an oblique glimpse of the
doctor's house front, with the Dead Hand projecting above its threshold. The sight revived
his interest, and that evening, over an admirable frittata, he questioned his landlady about
Miss Lombard's marriage.

"The daughter of the English doctor? But she has never married, signore."

"Never married? What, then, became of Count Ottaviano?"

"For a long time he waited; but last year he married a noble lady of the Maremma."

"But what happened--why was the marriage broken?"

The landlady enacted a pantomime of baffled interrogation.

"And Miss Lombard still lives in her father's house?"

"Yes, signore; she is still there."

"And the Leonardo--"

"The Leonardo, also, is still there."

The next day, as Wyant entered the House of the Dead Hand, he remembered Count Ottaviano's
injunction to ring twice, and smiled mournfully to think that so much subtlety had been vain.
But what could have prevented the marriage? If Doctor Lombard's death had been long delayed,
time might have acted as a dissolvent, or the young lady's resolve have failed; but it seemed
impossible that the white heat of ardor in which Wyant had left the lovers should have cooled
in a few short weeks.

As he ascended the vaulted stairway the atmosphere of the place seemed a reply to his conjectures.
The same numbing air fell on him, like an emanation from some persistent will-power, a something
fierce and imminent which might reduce to impotence every impulse within its range. Wyant could
almost fancy a hand on his shoulder, guiding him upward with the ironical intent of confronting
him with the evidence of its work.

A strange servant opened the door, and he was presently introduced to the tapestried room,
where, from their usual seats in the window, Mrs. Lombard and her daughter advanced to welcome
him with faint ejaculations of surprise.

Both had grown oddly old, but in a dry, smooth way, as fruits might shrivel on a shelf instead
of ripening on the tree. Mrs. Lombard was still knitting, and pausing now and then to warm
her swollen hands above the brazier; and Miss Lombard, in rising, had laid aside a strip of
needle-work which might have been the same on which Wyant had first seen her engaged.

