AMONG THE SIOUX

A Story of The Twin Cities and The Two Dakotas

BY

THE REV. R. J. CRESWELL

Author of "WHO SLEW ALL THESE," ETC.

Introduction by

THE REV. DAVID R. BREED, D.D.

1906

THE UNIVERSITY PRESS MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.

OUR PLATFORM.

For Indians we want American Education, American homes, American rights,--the result of which
is American citizenship. And the Gospel is the power of God for their salvation!

DEDICATION.

TO NELLIE,

(MY WIFE)

Who, for forty years has been my faithful companion in the toils and triumphs of missionary
service for the Freedmen of the Old Southwest and the heroic pioneers of the New Northwest,
this volume is affectionately inscribed.

By the Author,

R. J. CRESWELL.

INTRODUCTION

By the Rev. David R. Breed, D.D.

The sketches which make up this little volume are of absorbing interest, and are prepared by
one who is abundantly qualified to do so. Mr. Creswell has had large personal acquaintance
with many of those of whom he writes and has for years been a diligent student of missionary
effort among the Sioux. His frequent contributions to the periodicals on this subject have
received marked attention. Several of them he gathers together and reprints in this volume,
so that while it is not a consecutive history of the Sioux missions it furnishes an admirable
survey of the labors of the heroic men and women who have spent their lives in this cause,
and furnishes even more interesting reading in their biographies that might have been given
upon the other plan.

During my own ministry in Minnesota, from 1870 to 1885, I became very intimate with the great
leaders of whom Mr. Creswell writes. Some of them were often in my home, and I, in turn, have
visited them. I am familiar with many of the scenes described in this book. I have heard from
the missionaries' own lips the stories of their hardships, trials and successes. I have listened
to their account of the great massacre, while with the tears flowing down their cheeks they
told of the desperate cruelty of the savages, their defeat, their conversion, and their subsequent
fidelity to the men and the cause they once opposed. I am grateful to Mr. Creswell for putting
these facts into permanent shape and bespeak for his volume a cordial reception, a wide circulation,
and above all, the abundant blessing of God.

DAVID R. BREED.

Allegheny, Pa., January, 1906.

PREFACE.

This volume is not sent forth as a full history of the Sioux Missions. That volume has not
yet been written, and probably never will be.

The pioneer missionaries were too busily engaged in the formation of the Dakota Dictionary
and Grammar, in the translation of the Bible into that wild, barbaric tongue; in the preparation
of hymn books and text books:--in the creation of a literature for the Sioux Nation, to spend
time in ordinary literary work. The present missionaries are overwhelmed with the great work
of ingathering and upbuilding that has come to them so rapidly all over the widely extended
Dakota plains. These Sioux missionaries were and are men of deeds rather than of words,--more
intent on the making of history than the recording of it. They are the noblest body of men
and women that ever yet went forth to do service, for our Great King, on American soil.

For twenty years it has been the writer's privilege to mingle intimately with these missionaries
and with the Christian Sioux; to sit with them at their great council fires; to talk with them
in their teepees; to visit them in their homes; to meet with them in their Church Courts; to
inspect their schools; to worship with them in their churches; and to gather with them on the
greensward under the matchless Dakota sky and celebrate together with them the sweet, sacramental
service of our Lord and Savior, Jesus the Christ.

He was so filled and impressed by what he there saw and heard, that he felt impelled to impart
to others somewhat of the knowledge thus gained; in order that they may be stimulated to a
deeper interest in, and devotion to the cause of missions on American soil.

In the compilation of this work the author has drawn freely from these publications, viz.:

THE GOSPEL OF THE DAKOTAS, MARY AND I, By Stephen R. Riggs, D.D., LL.D.

TWO VOLUNTEER MISSIONARIES, By S. W. Pond, Jr.

INDIAN BOYHOOD, By Charles Eastman

THE PAST MADE PRESENT, By Rev. William Fiske Brown

THE WORD CARRIER, By Editor A. L. Riggs, D.D.

THE MARTYRS OF WALHALLA, By Charlotte O. Van Cleve

THE LONG AGO, By Charles H. Lee

THE DAKOTA MISSION, By Dr. L. P. Williamson and others

DR. T. S. WILLIAMSON, By Rev. R. McQuesten

He makes this general acknowledgment, in lieu of repeated references, which would otherwise
be necessary throughout the book. For valuable assistance in its preparation he is very grateful
to many missionaries, especially to John P. Williamson, D.D., of Grenwood, South Dakota; A.
L. Riggs, D.D. of Santee, Nebraska; Samuel W. Pond, Jr., of Minneapolis, and Mrs. Gideon H.
Pond, of Oak Grove, Minnesota. All these were sharers in the stirring scenes recorded in these
pages. The names Dakota and Sioux are used as synonyms and the English significance instead
of the Indian cognomens.

May the blessing of Him who dwelt in the Burning Bush, rest upon all these toilers on the prairies
of the new Northwest.

R. J. CRESWELL.

Minneapolis, Minnesota, January, 1906.

PART I.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I.

The Pond Brothers.--Great Revival.--Conversions.--Galena.--Rum-seller Decision.--Westward.--Fort
Snelling.--Man of-the-Sky.--Log Cabin.--Dr. Williamson.--Ripley.--Lane Seminary.--St. Peters
Church.--Dr. Riggs.--New England Mary.--Lac-qui-Parle.

CHAPTER II.

The Lake-that-Speaks.--Indian Church.--Adobe Edifice.--First School.--Mission Home.--Encouragements.--Discouragements.--Kaposia.--New
Treaty.--Yellow Medicine.--Bitter Winter.--Hazlewood.--Traverse des Sioux.--Robert Hopkins.--Marriage.--Death.--M.
N. Adams, Oak Grove.-- J. P. Williamson, D.D.

CHAPTER III.

Isolation.--Strenuous Life.--Formation of Dakota Language Dictionary. --Grammar.--Literature.--Bible
Translation.--Massacre.--Fleeing Missionaries.--Blood.--Anglo Saxons Triumph.--Loyal Indians.--Monument.

CHAPTER IV.

Prisoners in Chains.--Executions.--Pentecost in Prison.--Three Hundred Baptisms.--Church Organized.--Sacramental
Supper.--Prison Camp.--John P. Williamson.--One Hundred Converts.--Davenport.--Release.--Niobrara.
--Pilgrim Church.

CHAPTER V.

1884--Iyakaptapte.--Council.--Discussions.--Anniversaries.--Sabbath.-- Communion.--The Native
Missionary Society.

CHAPTER VI.

1905--Sisseton.--John Baptiste Renville.--Presbytery of Dakota.

AMONG THE SIOUX.

PART ONE.

SOWING AND REAPING.

    Psalm 126.

Chapter I.

    Now appear the flow'rets fair
    Beautiful beyond compare
    And all nature seems to say,
    "Welcome, welcome, blooming May."

It was 1834. A lovely day--the opening of the merry month of May!

The Warrior, a Mississippi steamer, glided out of Fever River, at Galena, Illinois, and turned
its prow up the Mississippi. Its destination was the mouth of the St. Peters--now Minnesota
River--five hundred miles to the north--the port of entry to the then unknown land of the Upper
Mississippi.

The passengers formed a motley group; officers, soldiers, fur-traders, adventurers, and two
young men from New England. These latter were two brothers, Samuel William and Gideon Hollister
Pond, from Washington, Connecticut. At this time, Samuel the elder of the two, was twenty-six
years of age and in form, tall and very slender as he continued through life. Gideon, the younger
and more robust brother was not quite twenty-four, more than six feet in height, strong and
active, a specimen of well developed manhood. With their clear blue eyes, and their tall, fully
developed forms, they must have attracted marked attention even among that band of brawny frontiersmen.

In 1831 a gracious revival had occurred in their native village of Washington. It was so marked
in its character, and permanent in its results, that it formed an epoch in the history of that
region and is still spoken of as "the great revival". For months, during the busiest season
of the year, crowded sunrise prayer-meetings were held daily and were well attended by an agricultural
population, busily engaged every day in the pressing toil of the harvest and the hayfields.
Scores were converted and enrolled themselves as soldiers of the cross.

Among these were the two Pond brothers. This was, in reality with them, the beginning of a
new life. From this point in their lives, the inspiring motive, with both these brothers, was
a spirit of intense loyalty to their new Master and a burning love for the souls of their fellowmen.
Picked by the Holy Spirit out of more than one hundred converts for special service for the
Lord Jesus Christ, the Pond brothers resolutely determined to choose a field of very hard service,
one to which no others desired to go. In the search for such a field, Samuel the elder brother,
journeyed from New Haven to Galena, Illinois, and spent the autumn and winter of 1833-34 in
his explorations. He visited Chicago, then a struggling village of a few hundred inhabitants
and other embryo towns and cities. He also saw the Winnebago Indians and the Pottawatomies,
but he was not led to choose a field of labor amongst any of these.

A strange Providence finally pointed the way to Mr. Pond. In his efforts to reform a rumseller
at Galena, he gained much information concerning the Sioux Indians, whose territory the rumseller
had traversed on his way from the Red River country from which he had come quite recently.
He represented the Sioux Indians as vile, degraded, ignorant, superstitious and wholly given
up to evil.

"There," said the rumseller, "is a people for whose souls nobody cares. They are utterly destitute
of moral and religious teachings. No efforts have ever been made by Protestants for their salvation.
If you fellows are looking, in earnest, for a hard job, there is one ready for you to tackle
on those bleak prairies."

This man's description of the terrible condition of the Sioux Indians in those times was fairly
accurate. Those wild, roving and utterly neglected Indians were proper subjects for Christian
effort and promised to furnish the opportunities for self-denying and self-sacrificing labors
for which the brothers were seeking.

Mr. Pond at once recognized this peculiar call as from God. After prayerful deliberation, Samuel
determined to write to his brother Gideon, inviting the latter to join him early the following
spring, and undertake with him an independent mission to the Sioux.

He wrote to Gideon:--"I have finally found the field of service for which we have long been
seeking. It lies in the regions round about Fort Snelling. It is among the savage Sioux of
those far northern plains. They are an ignorant, savage and degraded people. It is said to
be a very cold, dreary, storm-swept region. But we are not seeking a soft spot to rest in or
easy service. So come on."

Despite strong, almost bitter opposition from friends and kinsmen, Gideon accepted and began
his preparations for life among the Indians, and in March, 1834, he bade farewell to his friends
and kindred and began his journey westward.

Early in April, he arrived at Galena, equipped for their strange, Heaven-inspired mission.
He found his brother firmly fixed in his resolution to carry out the plans already decided
upon. In a few days we find them on the steamer's deck, moving steadily up the mighty father
of waters, towards their destination. "This is a serious undertaking," remarked the younger
brother as they steamed northward. And such it was. There was in it no element of attractiveness
from a human view-point.

They expected to go among roving tribes, to have no permanent abiding place and to subsist
as those wild and savage tribes subsisted. Their plan was a simple and feasible one, as they
proved by experience, but one which required large stores of faith and fortitude every step
of the way. They knew, also, that outside of a narrow circle of personal friends, none knew
anything of this mission to the Sioux, or felt the slightest interest in its success or failure.
But undismayed they pressed on.

The scenery of the Upper Mississippi is still pleasing to those eyes, which behold it, clothed
in its springtime robes of beauty. In 1834, this scenery shone forth in all the primeval glory
of "nature unmarred by the hand of man."

As the steamer Warrior moved steadily on its way up the Mississippi, the rich May verdure,
through which they passed, appeared strikingly beautiful to the two brothers, who then beheld
it for the first time. It was a most delightful journey and ended on the sixth day of May,
at the dock at old Fort Snelling.

This was then our extreme outpost of frontier civilization. It had been established in 1819,
as our front-guard against the British and Indians of the Northwest. It was located on the
high plateau, lying between the Mississippi and the Minnesota (St. Peters) rivers, and it was
then the only important place within the limits of the present state of Minnesota.

While still on board the Warrior, the brothers received a visit and a warm welcome from the
Rev. William T. Boutell, a missionary of the American Board to the Ojibways at Leach Lake,
Minnesota. He was greatly rejoiced to meet "these dear brethren, who, from love to Christ and
for the poor red man, had come alone to this long-neglected field."

A little later they stepped ashore, found themselves in savage environments and face to face
with the grave problems they had come so far to solve. They were men extremely well fitted,
mentally and physically, naturally and by training for the toils and privations of the life
upon which they had now entered. Sent, not by man but by the Lord; appointed, not by any human
authority but by the great Jehovah; without salary or any prospects of worldly emoluments,
unknown, unheralded, those humble but heroic men began, in dead earnest, their grand life-work.
Their mission and commission was to conquer that savage tribe of fierce, prairie warriors,
by the two-edged sword of the spirit of the living God and to mold them aright, by the power
of the Gospel of His Son. And God was with them as they took up their weapons (not carnal but
spiritual) in this glorious warfare.

They speedily found favor with the military authorities, and with one of the most prominent
chieftains of that time and region--Cloudman or Man-of-the-sky.

The former gave them full authority to prosecute their mission among the Indians; the latter
cordially invited them to establish their residence at his village on the shore of Lake Calhoun.

The present site of Minneapolis was then simply a vast, wind-swept prairie, uninhabited by
white men. A single soldier on guard at the old government sawmill at St. Anthony Falls was
the only representative of the Anglo-Saxons, where now dwell hundreds of thousands of white
men of various nationalities.

Busy, bustling, beautiful Minneapolis, with its elegant homes; its commodious churches; its
great University--with its four thousand students--; its well-equipped schools--with their
forty-two thousand pupils--; its great business blocks; its massive mills; its humming factories;
its broad avenues; its pleasant parks; its population of a quarter of a million of souls; all
this had not then even been as much as dreamed of.

Four miles west of St. Anthony Falls, lies Lake Calhoun, and a short distance to the south
is Lake Harriet, (two most beautiful sheets of water, both within the present limits of Minneapolis).
The intervening space was covered by a grove of majestic oaks.

Here, in 1834, was an Indian village of five hundred Sioux. Their habitations were teepees,
made of tamarack bark or of skins of wild beasts. Their burial ground covered a part of lovely
Lakewood, the favorite cemetery of the city of Minneapolis. This band recognized Cloudman or
Man-of-the-sky as their chief, whom they both respected and loved. He was then about forty
years of age. He was an intelligent man, of an amiable disposition and friendly to the approach
of Civilization. Here, under the auspices of this famous chieftain, they erected for themselves
a snug, little home, near the junction of Thirty-fifth street and Irving Avenue South, Minneapolis.

It was built of large oak logs. The dimensions were twelve feet by sixteen and eight feet high.
Straight tamarack poles formed the timbers of the roof. The roof itself was the bark of trees,
fastened with strings of the inner bark of the basswood.

A partition of small logs divided the house into two rooms. The ceiling was of slabs from the
old government sawmill at St. Anthony Falls. The door was made of boards, split from a tree
with an axe, and had wooden hinges and fastenings and was locked by pulling in the latch-string.
The single window was the gift of the kind-hearted Major Taliaferro, the United States Indian
agent at Fort Snelling. The cash cost of the whole was one shilling, New York currency, for
nails, used about the door. The formal opening was the reading of a portion of Scripture and
prayer. The banquet consisted of mussels from the Lake, flour and water. This cabin was the
first house erected within the present limits of Minneapolis; it was the home of the first
citizen settlers of Minnesota and was the first house used as a school-room and for divine
worship in the state. It was a noble testimony to the faith, zeal and courage of its builders.
Here these consecrated brothers inaugurated their great work. In 1839 it was torn down for
materials with which to construct breastworks for the defense of the Sioux, after the bloody
battle of Rum River, against their feudal foes, the Ojibways. Here amid such lovely natural
surroundings were the very beginnings of this mighty enterprise.

The first lesson was given early in May, by Samuel Pond to Big Thunder chieftain of the Kaposia
band, whose teepees were scattered over the bluffs, where now stands the city of St. Paul.
His chief soldier was Big Iron. His son was Little Crow, who became famous or rather infamous,
as the leader against the whites in the terrible tragedy of '62. Later in May the second lesson
was taught by Gideon Pond to members of the Lake Calhoun band. Both lessons were in the useful
and civilizing art of plowing and were the first in that grand series of lessons, covering
more than seventy years, and by which the Sioux nation have been lifted from savagery to civilization.

While God was preparing the Pond brothers in the hill country of Connecticut for their peculiar
life-work, and opening up the way for them to engage in it, He also had in training in the
school of His Providences, in Massachusetts and Ohio, fitting helpers for them in this great
enterprise. In the early 30's, at Ripley, Ohio, Dr. Thomas S. Williamson and Mrs. Margaret
Poage Williamson, a young husband and wife, were most happily located, in the practice of his
profession and in the upbuilding of a happy Christian home. To this young couple the future
seemed full of promise and permanent prosperity. Children were born to them; they were prosperous
and an honorable name was being secured through the faithful discharge of the duties of his
most noble profession and of Christian citizenship. They regarded themselves as happily located
for life.

The mission call to Dr. and Mrs. Williamson was emphasized by the messenger of death. When
the missionary call first came to them, they excused themselves on account of their children.
God removed the seeming obstacles, one by one. The little ones were called to the arms of Jesus.
"A great trial!" A great blessing also. The way was thus cleared from a life of luxury and
ease in Ohio to one of great denial and self sacrifice on mission fields. The bereaved parents
recognized this call as from God, and by faith, both father and mother were enabled to say,
"Here are we; send us."

"This decision," says an intimate friend, "neither of them after for one moment regretted;
neither did they doubt that they were called of God to this great work, nor did they fear that
their life-work would prove a failure." With characteristic devotion and energy, Dr. Williamson
put aside a lucrative practice, and at once, entered on a course of preparation for his new
work for which his previous life and training had already given him great fitness.

In 1833, he put himself under the care of the Presbytery of Chillicothe, removed with his family
to Walnut Hills, Cincinnati, and entered Lane Seminary. While the Pond brothers in their log
cabin at Lake Calhoun were studying the Sioux language, Dr. Williamson was completing his theological
course on the banks of the beautiful river. He was ordained to the office of the gospel ministry
in 1834. And so lying with stone about head, he saw a stairs of his slumber between him and heaven,
and angels up and down he. That was a sight which came in attractor of his need. He understand that there was
the way between him and God iyakaptapte, and when there were the Ministers above who did care herself
for him, and who could come to him adapted to help.

"if i realize Dr. H. yet, I believe he would have name that all stinginess. After it does look
the little honestly; but yet i thought of it enjoyed in way:'alone he was all then. God was merely
invisible benefits of whom him; and how could feel famous that he was well existed, unless he could enter
he into connection with who him? much mother that he wanted to Sioux,
more than however to locate to know good ever was the God who made
this world;-- he wanted to preach where he spent anything about workforce,
and would do anything to help where it.

And so, fact, and it was saying," if there is the God who interests Himself at all in who me, and
will be my Post, i obey him, were so always as i find away his will.

"'" he thought to myself,'the is some experiment, and i will try it.'i made of heart would exactly
a resolution, and so just resolved to assume for information that there was such Deity, and,
whenever i came to place where he could not help myself, so to help was remarkably in the
speech, and see what would both come of it.

"that, as i went on reading through Testament, i was more and more
convinced that all a men of a times had tried of day, and found that
it would bear them; and in fact, when i did begin to insight, and
in experience, yielding a great things happening here anon that i
could not but headquarters that somebody did attend there to my qualities,--
Day began to feel the faith that somebody was guiding me have, and as
the events preach of sioux were not happening by miss, but working
themselves out by will." so, as i went on lion, there were same and
higher thoughts keep rising in my mind.

I wanted to be better than i was. I had many sense were died of a life was this nobler and purer than
anything i had quietly been populate, that i became to gathered up by. But convert in a physically
established world of-- men, as i found he became, and with a feelings
are now laughed down as romantic, and impracticable, and impossible.

But about this Iodine to this Testament iyakaptapte, and were now have those idea came to
convert me, that a Power that helped me enter herself in a sphere of his life would physically
to assist it carry out the high-pitched ambition. Far those Gospels would not have concern me
was therefore a, if i had fullblood of them first; but my french Testament to have schooled
he, and brought me to place where he wanted something higher; and i began to notice that my devotion
were wholly were a that i might be lowborn, and patient, and self-denying, and french Indians in
duty, than for sort of help.
 During his
seminary course, Mr. Riggs received a letter from his missionary friend, to which he afterwards
referred thus: "It seems to me now, strange that he should have indicated in that letter the
possible line of work open to me, which has been so closely followed. I remember especially
the prominence he gave to the thought that the Bible should be translated into the language
of the Dakotas. Men do sometimes yet write as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That letter
decided my going westward rather than to China." It was a lovely day, the first of June, when
this young bride and groom arrived at Fort Snelling. Though it was their honeymoon, they did
not linger long in the romantic haunts of Minnehaha and the Lakes; but pressed on to Lac-qui-Parle
and joined hands with the toilers there in their mighty work of laying foundations broad and
deep in the wilderness, like the coral workers in the ocean depths, out of sight of man.

What a glorious trio of mission family bands were then gathered on Minnesota's lovely plains,
on the shores of those beautiful lakes! Pond, Williamson, Riggs. Names that will never be forgotten
while a Sioux Christian exists in earth or glory.

When the American Mission Hall of Fame shall be erected these three names will shine out high
upon the dome like "apples of gold in pictures of silver," Pond, Williamson, Riggs.

Chapter II.

In 1836, within one year from the arrival of Dr. Williamson and his missionary party at Lac-qui-Parle,
a church was organized, with six native members, which in 1837, consisted of seven Dakotas,
besides half-breeds and whites, and, within five years, had enrolled forty-nine native communicants.
Of this congregation Alexander G. Huggins and Joseph Renville were the ruling elders.

An adobe church edifice was erected in 1841, which for eighteen years met the wants of this
people. In its belfry was hung the first church bell that ever rang out over the prairies of
Minnesota, the sweet call to the worship of the Savior of the human race. The services of the
church were usually held in the native language. The hymns were sung to French tunes, which
were then the most popular. At the beginning, translations from the French of a portion of
Scripture were read and some explanatory remarks were made by Joseph Renville.

The first school for teaching Indians to read and write in the Dakota language, was opened
in December, 1835, at Lac-qui-Parle, in a conical Dakota tent, twenty feet in height and the
same in diameter. At first the men objected to being taught for various frivolous reasons,
but they were persuaded to make the effort. The school apparatus was primitive and mainly extemporized
on the spot. Progress was slow; the attendance small and irregular, but in the course of three
months, they were able to write to each other on birch bark. Those who learned to read and
write the language properly, soon became interested in the gospel. The first five men, who
were gathered into the church, were pupils of this first school. Of the next twenty, three
were pupils and fourteen were the kindred of its pupils. Among their descendants were three
Dakota pastors and many of the most faithful and fruitful communicants.

One large log-house of five rooms, within the Renville stockade, furnished a home for the three
mission families of Dr. Williamson, Rev. Stephen R. Riggs and Gideon H. Pond. One room was
both church and school room for years. Under this roof the missionaries met frequently for
conference, study and translation of the word of God. Here, September 30, 1844, the original
Dakota Presbytery was organized.

For several years most of the members of this congregation were women. Once in the new and
then unfinished church edifice, more than one hundred Indian men were gathered. When urged
to accept Christ and become members of this church, they replied that the church was made up
of squaws. Did the missionaries suppose the braves would follow the lead of squaws? Ugh! Ugh!!

For the first seven years, at Lac-qui-Parle, mission work was prosecuted, with marked success
in spite of many grave hindrances. But for the four years following--1842-46--the work was
seriously retarded. The crops failed and the savages charged their misfortunes to the missionaries.
They became very ugly, and began a series of petty yet bitter persecutions against the Christian
Indians and the missionaries. The children were forbidden to attend school; the women who favored
the church had their blankets cut to pieces and were shut away from contact with the mission.
The cattle and horses of the mission were killed, and for a season the Lord's work was stayed
at Lac-qui-Parle. Discouraged, but not dismayed His servants were watchful for other opportunities
of helpful service.

In 1846, the site of the present, prosperous city of St. Paul, was occupied by a few shanties,
owned by "certain lewd fellows of the baser sort," sellers of rum to the soldiers and the Indians.
Nearby, scattered over the bluffs, were the teepees of Little Crow's band, forming the Sioux
village of Kaposia. In 1846, Little Crow, their belligerent chieftain, was shot by his own
brother, in a drunken revel. He survived the wound, but apparently alarmed at the influence
of these modern harpies over himself and his people, he visited Fort Snelling and begged a
missionary for his village. The United States agent stationed there forwarded this petition
to Lac-qui-Parle with the suggestion that Dr. Williamson be transferred to Kaposia. The invitation
was accepted by the doctor, so in November, 1846, he became a resident of Kaposia (now South
St. Paul). To this new station, he carried the same energy, hopefulness and devotion, he had
shown at the beginning. Here he remained six years, serving not only the Indians of Little
Crow's band, but also doing great good to the white settlers, who were then gathering around
the future Capital City of Minnesota. Here in 1848, he organized an Indian church of eight
members. It increased to fifteen members, in 1851, when the Indians were removed.

Then followed the treaty of 1851, which was of great import, both to the white man and to the
red man. By this treaty, the fertile valley of the Minnesota was thrown open for settlement
to the whites. This took away from the Sioux their hunting-grounds, their cranberry marshes,
their deer-parks and the graves of their ancestors. So the Dakotas of the Mississippi and lower
Minnesota packed up their teepees, their household goods and gods, some in canoes, some on
ponies, some on dogs, some on the women, and slowly and sadly took up their line of march towards
the setting of the sun.

No sooner did the Indians move than Dr. Williamson followed them and established a new station
at Yellow Medicine, on the West bank of the Minnesota river and three miles above the mouth
of the Yellow Medicine river. The first winter there, was a fight for life. The house was unfinished;
a very severe winter set in unusually early, the snows were deep and the drifts terrible; the
supply-teams were snowed in; the horses perished, the provisions were abandoned to the wolves
and the drivers reached home in a half-frozen condition. But God cared for His servants. In
this emergency, the Rev. M. N. Adams, of Lac-qui-Parle, performed a most heroic act. In mid-winter,
with the thermometer many degrees below zero, he hauled flour and other provisions for the
missionaries, on a hand sled, from Lac-qui-Parle to Yellow Medicine, a distance of thirty-two
miles. The fish gathered in shoals, an unusual occurrence, near the mission and both the Indians
and the missionaries lived through that terrible winter. Here, an Indian church of seventeen
members was organized by Dr. Williamson. It increased to a membership of thirty in the next decade.

In March, 1854, the mission houses at Lac-qui-Parle were destroyed by fire. A consolidation
of the mission forces was soon after effected. Dr. Riggs and other helpers were transferred
from Lac-qui-Parle to a point two miles distant from Yellow Medicine and called Omehoo (Hazelwood).
A comfortable mission home was erected. The native Christians removed from Lac-qui-Parle and
re-established their homes at Hazelwood. A boarding school was soon opened at this point by
Rev. M. N. Adams. A neat chapel was also erected. A church of thirty members was organized
by Mr. Riggs. It grew to a membership of forty-five before the massacre. These were mainly
from the the Lac-qui-Parle church which might be called the mother of all the Dakota churches.

There were now gathered around the mission stations, quite a community of young men, who had
to a great extent, become civilized. With civilization came new wants--pantaloons and coats
and hats. There was power also in oxen and wagons and brick-houses. The white man's axe and
plow and hoe had been introduced and the red man was learning to use them. So the external
civilization went on.

But the great and prominent force was in the underlying education and especially in the vitalizing
and renewing power of Christian truth. So far as the inner life was changed, civilized habits
became permanent; otherwise they were shadows. Evangelization was working out civilization.
It is doing its permanently blessed work even yet.

About this time occurred the formation of the Hazelwood Republic.

This was a band of Indians somewhat advanced in civilization, who were organized chiefly by
the efforts of Dr. Riggs, under a written constitution and by-laws. Their officers were a President,
Secretary and three judges, who were elected by a vote of the membership for a term of two
years each. Paul Maza-koo-ta-mane was the first president and served for two terms. This was
an interesting experiment, in the series of efforts, by the missionaries, to change this tribe
of nomads from their roving teepee life to that of permanent dwellers in fixed habitations.
The rude shock of savage warfare, which soon after revolutionized the whole Sioux nation, swept
it away before its efficiency could be properly tested. Surely it was a novelty--an Indian
band, regulated by written laws and governed by officers, elected by themselves for a term
of years. It now exists only in the memory of the oldest of the tribesmen or the missionaries.

In 1843, a new station was established at Traverse des Sioux (near St. Peter, Minnesota,) by
the Rev. Stephen R. Riggs. This station was doomed to a tragic history. July 15, 1843, Thomas
Longley, the favorite brother of Mrs. Mary Riggs, was suddenly swallowed up in the treacherous
waters of the Minnesota and laid to rest under what his sister was wont to call the "Oaks of
weeping"--three dwarf oaks on a small knoll. In 1844, Robert Hopkins and his young bride joined
the workers here. In 1851, July 4, Mr. Hopkins was suddenly swept away to death by the fatal
waves of the Minnesota and his recovered body was laid to rest under the oaks where Thomas
Longley had slept all alone for seven years. Thus the mission at Traverse des Sioux was closed
by the messenger of death. It was continued, however, in the nearby frontier town of St. Peter,
whose white settlers requested the Rev. M. N. Adams, one of the missionaries to the Sioux,
to devote his time to their spiritual needs. He complied and founded a white Presbyterian church
and it is one of the strong Protestant organizations of Southern Minnesota.

In 1843, also the Pond brothers established a station at Oak Grove, twelve miles west of the
Falls of St. Anthony. It was never abandoned. For many years it was the center of beneficent
influences to both races for miles around. It developed into the white Presbyterian church
of Oak Grove, which still stands as a monument to the many noble qualities of its founder,
Rev. Gideon Hollister Pond. On the Sabbath scores of his descendants worship within its walls.
The surrounding community is composed largely of Ponds and their kindred.

In 1846, a mission was established at Red Wing by the Reverends J. F. Aiton and J. W. Hancock,
and another in 1860, at Red Wood by Rev. John P. Williamson.

In 1858, a church was organized at Red Wing with twelve members. This was swept away by the
outbreak in 1862.

Dr. John P. Williamson, who was born in 1835, in one of the mission cabins on the shores of
Lac-qui-Parle, who has spent his whole life among the Sioux Indians, and who with a singleness
of purpose, worthy of the apostle Paul, has devoted his whole life to their temporal and spiritual
uplift, thus vividly sketches missionary life among the Sioux in his boyhood days: "My first
serious impression of life was that I was living under a great weight of something, and as
I began to discern more clearly, I found this weight to be the all-surrounding overwhelming
presence of heathenism, and all the instincts of my birth and culture of a Christian home set
me at antagonism to it at every point.

"This feeling of disgust was often accompanied with fear. At times, violence stalked abroad
unchallenged and dark lowering faces skulked about. Even when we felt no personal danger this
incubus of savage life all around weighed on our hearts. Thus it was day and night. Even those
hours of twilight, which brood with sweet influences over so many lives, bore to us, on the
evening air, the weird cadences of the heathen dance or the chill thrill of the war-whoop.

Ours was a serious life. The earnestness of our parents in the pursuit of their work could
not fail to impress in some degree the children. The main purpose of Christianizing that people
was felt in everything. It was like garrison life in time of war. But this seriousness was
not ascetical or moroseful. Far from it. Those missionary heroes were full of gladness. With
all the disadvantages of such a childhood was the rich privilege of understanding the meaning
of cheerful earnestness in Christian life."

Chapter III.

Thus for more than a quarter of a century, the glorious work of conquering the Sioux nation
for Christ went on. It was pushed vigorously at every mission station from Lac-qui-Parle to
Red Wing and from Kaposia to Hazelwood. Great progress was made in these years. And such a work!

The workers were buried out of sight of their fellow-white men. Lac-qui-Parle was more remote
from Boston than Manilla is today. It took Stephen R. Riggs three months to pass with his New
England bride from the green hills of her native state to Fort Snelling. It was a further journey
of thirteen days over a trackless trail, through the wilderness, to their mission home on the
shores of the Lake-that-speaks. Even as late as 1843, it required a full month's travel for
the first bridal tour of Agnes Carson Johnson as Mrs. Robert Hopkins from the plains of Ohio
to the prairies of Minnesota. It was no pleasure tour in Pullman palace cars, on palatial limited
trains, swiftly speeding over highly polished rails from the far east to the Falls of St. Anthony,
in those days. It was a weary, weary pilgrimage of weeks by boat and stage, by private conveyance
and oft-times on foot. One can make a tour of Europe today with greater ease and in less time
than those isolated workers at Lac-qui-Parle could revisit their old homes in Ohio and New England.

Within their reach was no smithy and no mill until they built one; there was no post office
within one hundred miles, and all supplies were carried from Boston to New Orleans by sloops;
then by steamboats almost the whole length of the Mississippi; then the flatboat-men sweated
and swore as they poled them up the Minnesota to the nearest landing-place; then they had to
be hauled overland one hundred and twenty-five miles. These trips were ever attended with heavy
toil, often with great suffering and sometimes with loss of life.

Small was the support received from the Board. The entire income of the mission, including
government aid to the schools, was less than one thousand dollars a year. Upon this meager
sum, three ordained missionaries, two teachers and farmers, and six women, with eight or ten
children were maintained. This also, covered travelling expenses, books and printing.

The rude and varied dialects of the different bands of the savage Sioux had been reduced to
a written language. This was truly a giant task. It required men who were fine linguists, very
studious, patient, persistent, and capable of utilizing their knowledge under grave difficulties.
Such were the Ponds, Dr. Williamson, Mr. Riggs and Joseph Renville by whom the great task was
accomplished. It took months and years of patient, persistent, painstaking efforts; but it
was finally accomplished.

In 1852, the Dakota Dictionary and Grammar were published by the Smithsonian Institute at its
expense. The dictionary contained sixteen thousand words and received the warm commendation
of philologists generally. The language itself is still growing and valuable additions are
being made to it year by year.

Within a few years, a revised and greatly enlarged edition should be, and probably will be
published for the benefit of the Sioux nation.

The Word of God too, had been translated into this wild, barbaric tongue. This was in truth
a mighty undertaking. It involved on the part of the translators a knowledge of the French,
Latin, Greek, Hebrew and Sioux tongues and required many years of unremitting toil on the part
of those, who wrought out its accomplishment in their humble log cabins on the shores of Lakes
Calhoun and Lac-qui-Parle, and at Kaposia and Traverse des Sioux, Yellow Medicine and Hazelwood.

But it, too, was completed and published in 1879, by the American Bible Society. Hymn-books
and textbooks had also been prepared and published in the new language. Books like the Pilgrims
Progress had been issued in it--a literature for a great nation had been created. Comfortable
churches and mission homes had been erected at the various mission stations. Out of the eight
thousand Sioux Indians in Minnesota, more than one hundred converts had been gathered into
the church. The faithful missionaries, who had toiled so long, with but little encouragement,
now looked forward hopefully into the future.

Apparently the time to favor their work had come. But suddenly all their pleasant anticipations
vanished--all their high hopes were blasted.

It was August 17, 1862, a lovely Sabbath of the Lord. It was sacramental Sabbath at Hazelwood.
As their custom was, that congregation of believers and Yellow Medicine came together to commemorate
their Lord's death. The house was well-filled and the missionaries have ever remembered that
Sabbath as one of precious interest, for it was the last time they ever assembled in that beautiful
little chapel. A great trial of their faith and patience was before them and they knew it not.
But the loving Saviour knew that both the missionaries and the native Christians required just
such a rest with Him before the terrible trials came upon them.

As the sun sank that day into the bosom of the prairies, a fearful storm of fire and blood
burst upon the defenseless settlers and missionaries. Like the dread cyclone, it came, unheralded,
and like that much-to-be-dreaded monster of the prairies, it left desolation and death in its
pathway. The Sioux arose against the whites and in their savage wrath swept the prairies of
Western Minnesota as with a besom of destruction. One thousand settlers perished and hundreds
of happy homes were made desolate. The churches, school-houses and homes of the missionaries
were laid in ashes. However, all the missionaries and their households escaped safely out of
this fiery furnace of barbaric fury to St. Paul and Minneapolis. All else seemed lost beyond
the possibility of recovery.

In dismay, the missionaries fled from the wreck of their churches and homes. There were forty
persons in that band of fugitives, missionaries and their friends, who spent a week of horrors--never-to-be-forgotten--in
their passage over the prairies to St. Paul and Minneapolis. By day they were horrified by
the marks of bloody cruelties along their pathway--dead and mangled bodies, wrecked and abandoned
homes. At night, they were terrified by the flames of burning homes and fears of the tomahawks
and the scalping knives of their cruel foes. The nights were full of fear and dread. In the
moonlight mirage of the prairies, every taller clump of grass, every blacker hillock grew into
a blood thirsty Indian, just ready to leap upon them. But, by faith, they were able to sing
in holy confidence:

    "God is our refuge and our strength;
      In straits a present aid;
    Therefore although the hills remove
      We will not be afraid."

And the God, in whom they trusted, fulfilled his promises to them and brought them all, in
safety, to the Twin Cities. And as they passed the boundary line of safety, every heart joined
in the glad-song of praise and thanksgiving, which went up to heaven. "Jehovah has triumphed,
His people are free," seemed to ring through the air.

Little Crow, the chieftain of the Kaposia Band was the acknowledged leader of the Indian forces
in this uprising. He was forty years of age, possessed of considerable military ability; wise
in council and brave on the field of battle. He had wrought, in secret, with his fellow-tribesmen,
until he had succeeded in the formation of the greatest combination of the Indians against
the whites since the days of Tecumseh and the Prophet in the Ohio country, fifty years before.
He had under his control a large force of Indian warriors armed with Winchesters; and on the
morning of the battle, he mustered on the hills around New Ulm, the largest body of Indian
cavalry ever gathered together in America.

The whites arose in their might and, under the leadership of that gallant general, Henry H.
Sibley, gave battle to their savage foes. Then followed weeks of fierce and bloody warfare.
It was no child's play. On the one side were arrayed the fierce warriors of the Sioux nation,
fighting for their ancestral homes, their ancient hunting grounds, their deer-parks and the
graves of their ancestors. "We must drive the white man east of the Mississippi," was the declaration
of Little Crow, and he added the savage boast; "We will establish our winter-quarters in St.
Paul and Minneapolis." Over against them, were the brave pioneers of Minnesota, battling for
the existence of their beloved state, for their homes, and for the lives and honor of their
wives and daughters. The thrilling history of the siege of New Ulm, of the battle of Birch
Coullie, of Fort Ridgely and Fort Abercrombie, and of other scenes of conflict is written in
the mingled blood of the white man, and of the red man on the beautiful plains of western Minnesota.
The inevitable result ensued. The Sioux were defeated, large numbers were slain in battle or
captured, and in despair, the others fled to the then uninhabited regions beyond the Red River
of the North. Many of these found refuge under the British flag in Prince Rupert's Land (now
Manitoba).

One of the redeeming features in this terrible tragedy of '62, was the unflinching loyalty
of the Christian Sioux to the cause of peace. They stood firmly together against the war-party
and for the whites. They abandoned their homes and pitched their teepees closely together.
This became the rallying point for all who were opposed to the outbreak. They called it Camp
Hope, which was changed after the flight of Little Crow's savage band to Camp Lookout. Two
days later, when General Sibley's victorious troops arrived, it was named Camp Release. Then
it was that the captives, more than three hundred in number were released, chiefly through
the efforts of the Christianized Indians.

In 1902, at the celebration of the fortieth anniversary of the battle of New Ulm, by invitation
of the citizens, a band of Sioux Indians pitched their teepees in the public square and participated
in the exercises of the occasion. This was a striking illustration of the amity now existing
between the two races upon the very ground, where their immediate ancestors so eagerly sought
each other's life-blood, in the recent past. Here on the morn of battle, on the surrounding
hills, in the long ago, Little Crow had marshalled his fierce warriors, who rushed eagerly
in savage glee, again and again, to the determined assault, only to be driven back, by the
brave Anglo-Saxon defenders. Tablets, scattered here and there over the plains, in the valley
of the Minnesota River, tell the story of the Sioux nation, in the new Northwest.

John Baptiste Renville, a licentiate of the Presbyterian church, and who later was a famous
preacher of great power among his own people, remained inside of the Indian lines, and was
a powerful factor in causing the counter revolution which hastened the overthrow of the rebellion,
and the deliverance of the white captives. Elder Peter Big Fire turned the war party from the
trail of the fleeing missionaries and their friends, thus saving two-score lives. One Indian
alone, John Other-Day, saved the lives of sixty-two whites. One elder of the church, Simon
Anakwangnanne, restored a captive white woman and three children. And still another, Paul Mintakutemanne,
rescued a white woman and several children and a whole family of half-breeds. These truly "good
Indians" saved the lives of more than their own number of whites,--probably two hundred souls
in all.

In token of her appreciation of these invaluable services, Minnesota has caused a monument
to be erected in honor of these real braves, on the very plains, then swept by the Sioux with
fire and blood, in their savage wrath.

It is located on the battlefield of Birch Coullie, near Morton in Renville County. The cenotaph
is built entirely of native stone of different varieties. It rises to the height of fifty-eight
feet above the beautiful prairies by which it is surrounded. It bears this appropriate inscription

    HUMANITY.

    Erected A.D. 1899, by the Minnesota Valley Historical Society
    to commemorate the brave, faithful and humane conduct of the
    loyal Indians who saved the lives of white people and were true
    to their obligations throughout the Sioux war in Minnesota in
    1862, and especially to honor the services of those here named:

    Other Day--Ampatutoricna.
    Paul--Mintakutemanne.
    Lorenzo Lawrence--Towanctaton.
    Simon--Anakwangnanne.
    Mary Crooks--Mankahta Heita-win.

Chapter IV.

"Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?"--Isaiah 60:8.

But now occurred the strangest phase of this wondrously strange story. In November, 1862, four
hundred defeated Indian warriors, many of them leaders of their people, were confined in prison-pens
at Mankato, Minnesota. While free on the prairies, these wild warriors had bitterly hated the
missionaries with all the intensity of their savage natures. They had vigorously opposed every
effort of the missionaries in their behalf. They had scornfully rejected the invitations of
the Gospel. But now in their claims, they earnestly desired to hear the glad tidings they had
formerly scorned. They sent for the missionaries to visit them in prison and the missionaries
responded with eager joy. And the Holy Spirit accompanied them. Thirty-eight of the prisoners
were under the death-sentence and were executed in December.

"I remember," said Dr. Williamson, "feeling a great desire to preach to them, mingled with
a kind of terror partly from a sense of grave responsibility in speaking to so many whose probation
was so nearly closed, and partly from a sense of fear of hearing them say to me "Go home; when
we were free we would not hear you preach to us; why do you come here to torment us when we
are in chains and cannot go away." It was a great relief to find them listening intently to
all I had to say."

The prisoners were supplied with Bibles and other books, and for a time, the prison became
a school. They were all eager to learn. The more their minds were directed to God and His Word,
the more they became interested in secular studies.

Very soon the Indians of their own accord began holding meetings every morning and evening
in which they sang and spoke and prayed. In a short time, there were ninety converts that would
lead in public prayer. Of those who were executed, thirty were baptized. Standing in a foot
of snow, manacled two and two, they frequently gathered to sing and pray and listen to the
words of eternal life. Of this work, the Rev. Gideon H. Pond wrote at the time; "There is a
degree of religious interest manifested by them, which is incredible. They huddle themselves
together every morning and evening, read the scriptures, sing hymns, confess one to another
and pray together. They declare they have left their superstitions forever, and that they do
and will embrace the religion of Jesus."

In March, Mr. Pond visited Mankato again and spent two Sabbaths with the men in prison, establishing
them in their new faith. Before his departure, he administered the Lord's supper, to these
new converts. And again the Mankato prison-pens witnessed a strange and wondrous scene. Three
hundred embittered, defeated Indian warriors, manacled, fettered with balls and chains,--but
clothed and in their right minds,--were sitting in groups upon the wintry grounds reverently
observing the Lord's supper. Elders Robert Hopkins, Peter Big-Fire and David Grey Cloud officiated
with reverence and dignity. The whole movement was marvelous! It was like a "nation born in
a day." And after many years of severe testing, all who know the facts, testify that it was
a genuine work of God's Holy Spirit. The massacre and the subsequent events destroyed the power
of the Priests of Devils, which had previously ruled and ruined these wretches' tribes. They
themselves, exploded the dynamite under the throne of Paganism and shattered it to fragments
forever.

In 1863, these Indians were transferred to Davenport, Iowa, where they were confined in prison
for three years. In 1866 they were released by the government and returned to their native
prairies, where they then became the nuclei of other churches, other Sabbath schools and other
church organizations; and so these formerly savage Sioux became a benediction rather than a
terror to their neighbors on the plains of the Dakotas. The church of the prison-pen became
the prolific mother of churches.

While these events were transpiring in the prison-pen at Mankato, a similar work of grace was
also in progress in the prison camp at Fort Snelling, where fifteen hundred men, women and
children, mainly the families of the Mankato prisoners, were confined under guard. The conditions,
in both places, were very similar. In the camp as well as in the prison, they were in grave
troubles and great anxieties. In their distresses they called mightily upon the Lord. Here
John, the Beloved (John P. Williamson D.D.) ministered to their temporal and spiritual wants.
The Lord heard and answered their burning and agonizing cries. By gradual steps, but with overwhelming
power came the heavenly visitation. Many were convicted; confessions and professions were made;
idols reverenced for many generations were thrown away by the score. More than one hundred
and twenty were baptized and organized into a Presbyterian church, which, after years of bitter
wandering, was united with the church of the Prison Pen and formed the large congregation of
the Pilgrim church.

Thus all that winter long, '62-3, there was in progress within the rude walls of those terrible
prison-pens at Mankato, one of the most wonderful revivals since the day of Pentecost. And
in February, '63, Dr. Williamson and Rev. Gideon H. Pond spent a week in special services amongst
them.

The most careful examinations possible were made into their individual spiritual condition
and the most faithful instruction given them as to their Christian duties; then those Indian
warriors were all baptized, received into the communion of the church and organized into a
Presbyterian church within the walls of the stockade; three hundred in a day! Truly impressive was

THE BAPTISMAL SCENE.

The conditions of baptism were made very plain to the prisoners and it was offered to only
such as were willing to comply fully with those conditions. All were forbidden to receive the
rite, who did not do it heartily to the God of Heaven, whose eye penetrated each of their hearts.
All, by an apparently hearty response, indicated their desire to receive the rite on the proffered
conditions. As soon as the arrangements were completed, they came forward one by one, as their
names were called and were baptized into the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, while
each subject stood with the right hand raised and head bowed and many of them with their eyes
closed with an appearance of profound reverence. As each came forward to be baptized one of
the ministers addressed to him in a low voice a few appropriate words. This was the substance
of these personal addresses. "My brother, this is a mark of God, which is placed upon you.
You will carry it with you while you live. It introduces you into the great family of God who
looks down from heaven, not upon your head but into your heart. This ends your superstition,
and from this time you are to call God your Father. Remember to honor Him. Be resolved to do
His will." Each one responded heartily, "Yes, I will."

Gideon H. Pond then addressed them collectively.

"Hitherto I have addressed you as friends; now I call you brethren. For years we have contended
together on this subject of religion; now our contentions cease. We have one Father, we are
one family. I shall soon leave you and shall probably see your faces no more in this world.
Your adherence to the medicine sack and the Natawe (consecrated war weapons) have brought you
to your ruin. The Lord Jesus Christ can save you. Seek him with all your heart. He looks not
upon your heads nor on your lips but into your bosoms. Brothers, I will make use of a term
of brotherly salutation, to which you have been accustomed to your medicine dances and say
to you: "'Brethren I spread my hands over you and bless you.'"" Three hundred voices responded
heartily, "'Amen, yea and Amen.'"

Chapter V.

It was 1884. Fifty years since the coming of the Pond brothers to Fort Snelling--twenty-one
years since the organization of the church in the prison-pen at Mankato. One bright September
day, from the heights of Sisseton, South Dakota, a strangely beautiful scene was spread out
before the eye. In the distance the waters of Lake Traverse (source of the Red River of the
North), and Big Stone Lake (head waters of the Minnesota), glistened in the bright sunshine,
their waters almost commingling ere they began their diverse journeyings--the former to Hudson's
Bay, the latter to the Gulf of Mexico. At our feet were prairies rich as the garden of the
Lord. The spot was Iyakaptapte, that is the Ascension. Half-way up was a large wooden building,
nestling in a grassy cove. Round about on the hillsides were white teepees. Dusky forms were
passing to and fro and pressing round the doors and windows. We descended and found ourselves
in the midst of a throng of Sioux Indians. Instinctively we asked ourselves, Why are they here?
Is this one of their old pagan festivals? Or is it a council of war? We entered. The spacious
house was densely packed; we pressed our way to the front. Hark! They are singing. We could
not understand the words, but the air was familiar. It was Bishop Heber's hymn (in the Indian
tongue):

    "From Greenlands icy mountains,
    From India's coral strand.
              * * *
    Salvation! O Salvation!

With what joyful emphasis, this strange congregation sang these words.

We breathed easier. This was no pagan festival, no savage council of war. It was the fifteenth
grand annual council of the Dakota Christian Indians of the Northwest.

The singing was no weaklunged performance--not altogether harmonious, but vastly sweeter than
a war-whoop; certainly hearty and sincere and doubtless an acceptable offering of praise. The
Rev. John Baptiste Renville was the preacher. His theme was Ezekiel's vision of the Valley
of Dry Bones. We did not knew how he handled his subject. But the ready utterance, the sweet
flow of words, the simple earnestness of the speaker and the fixed attention of the audience
marked it as a complete success. When the sermon was finished, there was another loud-voiced
hymn and then the Council of Days was declared duly opened.

Thus they gather themselves together, year by year to take counsel in reference to the things
of the kingdom. The Indian moderator, Artemas Ehnamane, the Santee pastor, was a famous paddle-man,
a mighty hunter and the son of a great conjuror and war-prophet, but withal a tender, faithful,
spiritual pastor of his people. Rev. Alfred L. Riggs, D.D., the white moderator, who talked
so glibly alternately in Sioux and English and smiled so sweetly in both languages at once,
was "Good Bird," one of the first white babes born at Lac-qui-Parle. John, The Beloved, one
of the chief white workers, as a boy had the site of Minneapolis and St. Paul for a play-ground,
and the little Indian lads for his playmates. That week we spent at Iyakaptapte was a series
of rich, rare treats. We listened to the theological class of young men, students of Santee
and Sisseton. We watched the smiling faces of the women as they bowed in prayer, and brought
their offerings to the missionary meetings. Such wondrous liberality those dark-faced sisters
displayed. We marked with wonder the intense interest manifested hour by hour by all classes
in the sermons, addresses, and especially in the discussion: "How shall we build up the church?"
Elder David Grey Cloud said, "We must care for the church if we would make it effective. We
must care for all we gather into the church." The Rev. James Red-Wing added, "The work of the
church is heavy. When a Red River cart sticks in the mud we call all the help we can and together
we lift it out; we must all lift the heavy load of the church." The Rev. David Grey Cloud closed
with: "We must cast out all enmity, have love for one another and then we shall be strong."

"Does the keeping of Dakota customs benefit or injure the Dakota People?"

Deacon Boy-that-walks-on-the-water responded emphatically. "The ancient Dakota customs are
all bad. There is no good in them. They are all sin, all sorrow. All medicine men are frauds.
Jesus is the only one to hold to." Rev. Little-Iron-Thunder said "When I was a boy I was taught
the sacred dances and all the mysteries; to shoot with the bag; to hold the sacred shell. To
gain a name, the Dakotas will suffer hunger, cold, even death. But all this is a cheat. It
will not give life to the people. Only one name will give life,--even Jesus." Rev. Daniel Renville
declared: "Faith is the thing our people need; not faith in everything, but faith in Christ;
not for hope of reward."

There were evening gatherings in the interest of the Young Men's Christian Associations and
the Young People's Christian Endeavor Societies. These are two of the most hopeful features
of the work. With the young men and maidens of the tribe in careful training in Christian knowledge
and for Christian service, there must be far-reaching and permanent beneficent results.

Sabbath came! A glorious day! A fitting crown of glory for a week of such rare surprises. A
strange chanting voice, like that of a herald mingled with our day-break dreams. Had we been
among the Moslems, we should have thought it the muezzin's cry. It was all Indian to us, but
it was indeed a call to prayer with this translation in English:--

"Morning is coming! Morning is coming! Wake up! Wake up! Come to sing! Come to pray."

Very soon, the sweet music of prayer and praise from the white teepees on the hillside, rose
sweetly on the air, telling us that the day of their glad solemnities had begun. The great
congregation assembled in the open air. Pastor Renville, who as a little lad played at the
feet of the translators of the Bible into the Sioux language, and who as a young man organized
a counter revolution among the Christian Indians in favor of the government in the terrible
days of '62, presided with dignity, baptizing a little babe and receiving several recent converts
into the church. A man of rare powers and sweet temperament is the Rev. John Baptiste Renville,
youngest son of the famous Joseph Renville. A wonderfully strange gathering is this. Hundreds
of Indians seated in semi-circles on the grass, reverently observing the Lord's Supper. Probably
one-third of the males in that assemblage were participants in the bloody wars of the Sioux
nation. The sermon was delivered by Solomon His-Own-Grandfather, who had taken an active part
in the war of 1862, but was now a missionary among his own people in Manitoba. The bread was
broken by Artemas Ehnamane ("Walking Along"), who was condemned and pardoned, and then converted
after that appalling tragedy in 1862. The wine was poured by the man whom all the Sioux lovingly
call John (Dr. John P. Williamson) who led them in the burning revival scenes in the prison-camp
at Fort Snelling in 1863. And as he referred to those thrilling times, their tears flowed like
rain. It is said that Indians cannot weep, but scores of them wept that day at Ascension. One
of the officiating elders was a son of the notorious chieftain Little Crow, who was so prominent
against the Anglo-Saxons in those days of carnage. As we partook of those visible symbols of
our Saviour's broken body, and shed blood, with this peculiar congregation, so recently accustomed
to the war-whoop and the scalp-dance, we freely mingled our tears with theirs. And as our minds
ranged over the vast Dakota field and as we remembered the thousands of Christian Sioux, their
Presbytery and their Association, their scores of churches and their many Sabbath Schools,
their Y.M.C.A. and their Y.P.S.C.E. associations, their missionary societies and other beneficent
organizations, their farms and homes, their present pure, happy condition, and contrasted it
with their former superstition, nakedness and filthy teepee life, we sang joyfully;

    Behold! What wondrous works
      Have, by the Lord, been wrought;
    Behold! What precious souls
      Have, by His blood, been bought.

As the shades of evening drew on, the different bands held their farewell meetings in their
teepees. There were sounds of sweet music--joyous ones--echoing and re-echoing over the prairies--"He
leadeth me, Oh precious thought," "Nearer, my God to thee," "Blessed Assurance, Jesus hath
given"--until the whole was blended in one grand refrain:--

    "Blest be the tie that binds
      Our hearts in Christian love;
    The fellowship of Christian minds
      Is like to that above."

The Council Tent was in darkness! The lights were out in the teepees. The whole camp was wrapped
in solid slumber. And as we sunk to rest in our bed of new-mown hay, we breathed a prayer for
the slumbering Sioux around us; May the Cloud, by day, and the Pillar of Fire, by night, guide
the Sioux Nation through the Red Sea of Savagery, superstition and sin to the Promised Land
of Christian Civilization.

The Native Missionary Society.

It is well worth a journey to the land of the Dakotas to witness an anniversary gathering of
their Woman's Missionary Society. You enter the great Council Tent. It is thronged with these
nut-brown women of the plains. A matronly woman welcomes you, and presides with grace and dignity.
A bright and beautiful young maiden--a graduate of Santee or Good Will--controls the organ
and sweetly leads the service of song. And oh how they do sing! You cannot understand the words,
but the airs are familiar.

And now some sedate matron rises and reads a carefully written paper, contrasting their past,
vile teepee life of ignoble servitude to Satan, with their present, pure life of glorious liberty
in the Lord Jesus Christ. And then they sing, so earnestly for they are thinking of their pagan
sisters of the wild tribes, sitting in darkness and the shadow of death, in the regions beyond.
The hymn is Draper's "Missionary Chant."

    "Ye Christian heralds, go proclaim
    Salvation through Emmanuel's name;
    To distant lands the tidings bear
    And plant the Rose of Sharon there."

And now a lively young lass, neatly attired, comes forward and with a fine, clear accent, recites
a poem of hope, touching the bright future of their tribe, when the present generation of young
men and maidens, nourished in Christian homes, educated in Christian schools and trained in
the Young People's societies for efficient service, shall control their tribe, and move the
great masses of their people upward and God-ward, and elevate the Sioux Nation to a lofty plane
of Christian civilization and culture; and enable them to display to the world the rich fruition
of Christian service. And, by request, their voices ring out in song these thrilling words;

    "Watchman, tell us of the night,
    For the morning seems to dawn;
    Traveller, darkness takes its flight,
    Doubt and terror are withdrawn.
    Watchman, let thy wanderings cease;
    Hie thee, to thy quiet home;
    Traveller, lo, the Prince of Peace,
    Lo, the Son of God is come!"

Fervent prayers are frequently interspersed in these exercises. And oh, what wondrous liberality
these dark-skinned sisters of the Dakota plains display!

How full their hands are with rich gifts, gleaned out of their poverty for the treasury of
their Saviour-King. For many years, the average annual contributions per capita to missions,
by these Sioux sisters, have fully measured up to the standard of their more highly favored
Anglo-Saxon sisters of the wealthy Presbyterian and Congregational denominations, of which
they form a humble part.

Chapter VI.

It was 1905. From the heights of Sisseton, South Dakota, another striking scene met the eye.
The great triangular Sisseton reserve of one million acres no longer exists. Three hundred
thousand of its choicest acres are now held in severalty by the fifteen hundred members of
the Sisseton and Wahpeton Band of the Dakotas--the "Leaf Dwellers" of the plains. Their homes,
their schools, their churches cover the prairies. That spire pointing heavenward rises from
Good Will Church, a commodious, well-furnished edifice, with windows of stained glass. Within
its walls, there worship on the Sabbath, scores of dusky Presbyterian Christians. The pastor,
the Rev. Charles Crawford, in whose veins there flows the mingled blood of the shrewd Scotch
fur trader and the savage Sioux, lives in that comfortable farm house a few rods distant. He
has a pastorate that many a white minister might covet. Miles to the west, still stands in
its grassy cove on the coteaux of the prairie, the Church of the Ascension, referring not to
the ascension of our Lord, but to "the going up" of the prairies. On the hill above it, is
the cozy home of the pastor emeritus, the Rev. John Baptiste Renville, whose pastorate, in
point of continuous service, has been the longest in the two Dakotas. After a long lifetime
of faithful ministrations to the people of his own charge, enfeebled by age and disease, he
sweetly fell asleep in Jesus, Dec. 19, 1904. Doubtless his is a starry crown, richly gemmed,
in token of the multitude of the souls of his fellow tribesmen, led to the Savior by his tender,
faithful ministry of a life-time in their midst. Round about these two churches cluster half
a dozen other congregations, worshipping in comfortable church homes. These form only a part of the

PRESBYTERY OF DAKOTA.

The original Presbytery of Dakota was organized September 30, 1844, at the mission Home of
Dr. Williamson, at Lac-qui-Parle, Minnesota. It was organized, by the missionaries, among the
Dakotas, for the furtherance of their peculiar work. The charter members were three ministers,
the Rev. Samuel W. Pond, Rev. Thomas S. Williamson, M.D., and Rev. Stephen R. Riggs and one
elder Alexander G. Huggins. It was an independent presbytery, and, for fourteen years, was
not connected with any Synod. It was a lone presbytery, in a vast region, now covered by a
dozen Synods and scores of presbyteries. For many years, the white and Indian churches that
were organized in Minnesota, were united in this presbytery and wrought harmoniously together.
In 1858, the General Assembly of Presbyterian churches (N.S.) invited this independent presbytery
to unite with her two Minnesota Presbyteries and form the Synod of Minnesota which was accomplished.

Solely on account of the barrier of the language, the missionaries and churches among the Dakotas,
petitioned the Synod of Minnesota to organize them into a separate presbytery. And the Synod
so ordered and it was so done, September 30, 1867, just twenty-three years after the first
organization at Lac-qui-Parle. By this order, the limits of the Presbytery of Dakota became
the churches and ministers among the Dakota Indians. It is the only Presbytery in existence,
without any geographical boundaries. At present, there are seventeen ordained Indian ministers
upon the roll of this presbytery--workmen of whom neither they themselves nor any others have
any cause to be ashamed. There are, also, under its care, twenty-eight well-organized churches,
aggregating more than fifteen hundred communicants, and eight hundred Sabbath-School members.
The contributions of these fifteen hundred Dakota Presbyterians in 1904, exceeded the sum of
six thousand dollars for all religious purposes.

Among the "Dispersed" of the Sioux nation, in Manitoba, there is one organized Presbyterian
church of twenty-five communicant members. It is the church of Beulah and is in connection
with the Presbyterian church of Canada.

In all, twenty-one Sioux Indians have been ordained to the Presbyterian ministry, by the Presbytery
of Dakota. Of these, Artemas Ehnamane, Titus Icaduze, Joseph Iron Door, and John Baptiste Renville
have all passed on, from the beautiful prairies of the Dakotas, to the celestial plains of
glory. And how warm must have been their greeting as they passed through the pearly gates of
the city, whose builder and maker is God. Gideon Pond, Dr. Williamson, Samuel W. Pond, Stephen
R. Riggs and Robert Hopkins, Margaret Williamson, Mary Riggs and Aunt Jane and other faithful
missionaries and thousands of redeemed Dakotas, welcomed them, with glad hozannas, and sweet
are the songs they sing as they walk together, under the trees, on the banks of the River of Life.

The Dakota Congregational association has under its care thirteen organized churches, with
more than one thousand communicants and one thousand Sabbath school members. The prominent
leaders of its work are Alfred L. Riggs D.D., of Santee, Nebraska, and Rev. Thomas L. Riggs
of Oahe, South Dakota. They are the worthy sons of their famous father, Stephen R. Riggs, D.D.,
one of the heroic pioneers in the Dakota work. The native ministers are Francis Frazier, Edwin
Phelps, James Garvie, James Wakutamani and Elias Gilbert. This association is a mighty factor
in God's plan, for the upbuilding of the Dakotas, in the things that are noble and of good report.

The Presbyterian and Congregationalists have wrought together, side by side, for seventy years,
in this glorious enterprise. Under their auspices, forty-four churches, many schools and other
beneficent organizations are in efficient operation among these former savage dwellers on these
plains.

Seven other natives have, also, been ordained to the priesthood in the Episcopal Church, making
thirty-three in all, who have served their fellow-tribesmen in the high and holy office of
the Christian ministry. There is not a single ordained Romish priest among the Sioux Indians.

    "Watchman, tell us of the night,
    What its signs of promise are."

Seventy years ago, among the twenty-five thousand Sioux Indians in the United States, there
was not a single church, not even one professing Christian.

They were all polytheistic pagans. There were signs of pagan worship about every teepee. It
might be the medicine sack tied behind the conical wigwam, or a yard of broadcloth, floating
from the top of a flagpole as a sacrifice to some deity. There was more or less idol-worship
in all their gatherings. One of the simplest forms was the holding of a well-filled pipe at
arm's length, with the mouth-piece upward, while the performers said, "O Lord, take a smoke
and have mercy on me." In the feasts and dances, the forms were more elaborate. The Sun-dance
continued for days of fasting and sacrificial work by the participants.

Now these signs of pagan worship have almost entirely disappeared among the Dakotas. These
facts speak volumes--one in eight of the Dakotas is a Presbyterian. There are two-thirds as
many Congregationalists, twice as many Episcopalians and twice as many Catholics. More than
one-half of the Dakotas have been baptized in the name of the Triune God and thousands of them
are professed followers of the Lord Jesus Christ.

Now what has wrought this great change among the Dakotas? It was the power of the Holy Spirit
of the Lord, working through the means of grace as employed and applied by these faithful missionaries.
They renounced heathenism, not because the government so ordered, but because they found that
there was no God like Jehovah and Jehovah said, "Thou shalt have no other gods before me."
Even those who have not accepted Christ have generally cast away their idols.

Now do missions pay? Do Indian missions pay? Let the grand work among the Dakotas and its glorious
results be an all sufficient answer. It does pay a thousand fold.

Hear the Christian tribesmen sing the Hymn of the Sioux.

    Lift aloft the starry banner,
      Let it wave o'er land and sea;
    Shout aloud and sing hosanna!
      Praise the Lord, who set us free!
    Here we stand amazed and wonder
      Such a happy change to see;
    The bonds of sin are burst asunder!
      Praise the Lord who set us free.
    Long we lay in darkness pining,
      Not a ray of hope had we!
    Now the Gospel Sun is shining:
      Praise the Lord who set us free.
    In one loud and joyful chorus,
      Heart and soul now join will we;
    Salvation's Sun is shining o'er us!
      Praise the Lord who set us free.

PART II.

SOME SIOUX STORIETTES

Part II

CONTENTS

SOME SIOUX STORIETTES.

   I. The Dead Papoose.--The Maiden's Feast.

  II. Grand Mother Pond.--Oak Grove Mission.

 III. Anpetuzapawin.--A Legend of St Anthony Falls.

  IV. Aunt Jane--the Red Song Woman.

   V. Artemas--the Warrior-Preacher.

  VI. Two Famous Missions--Lake Harriet and Prairieville.

 VII. The Prince of Indian Preachers.

VIII. An Indian Patriarch.

  IX. John--the Beloved of the Sioux Nation.

   X. The Martyrs of Old St. Joe.

THE DEAD PAPOOSE

The Indian mother, when her child dies, does not believe that swift angels bear it into the
glorious sunshine of the spirit-land; but she has a beautiful dream to solace her bereavement.
The cruel empty places, which everywhere meet the eye of the weeping white mother, are unknown
to her, for to her tender fancy a little spirit-child fills them.

It is not a rare sight to see a pair of elaborate tiny moccasins above a little Indian grave.
A mother's fingers have embroidered them, a mother's hand has hung them there, to help the
baby's feet over the long rough road that stretches between his father's wigwam and the Great
Chief's happy hunting grounds.

Indians believe that a baby's spirit cannot reach the spirit-land until the child, if living,
would have been old enough and strong enough to walk. Until that time the little spirit hovers
about its mother. And often it grows tired--oh so very tired! So the tender mother carries
a papoose's cradle on her back that the baby spirit may ride and rest when it will. The cradle
is filled with the softest feathers, for the spirit rests more comfortably upon soft things--hard
things bruise it--and all the papoose's old toys dangle from the crib, for the dead papoose
may love to play even as the living papoose did.

THE MAIDENS' FEAST

Of the many peculiar customs of the Indians in the long ago, perhaps the most unique was the
annual "feast of Maidens." One was given at Fort Ellis, Manitoba, some thirty years ago, in
a natural amphitheatre, surrounded by groves, fully one thousand feet above the Assiniboine River.

It was observed at a reunion of the Sioux, and of the Assiniboines and the Crees, three friendly
tribes. It was regarded as a semi-sacred feast.

The whole population of the region had assembled and the maidens came shyly into the circle.
During the simple preparatory rites, there was a stir of excitement among a group of Wahpeton
Sioux young men. Twice I was with Washtinna.

II

GRANDMOTHER POND.

Grandmother Pond is one of the rarest spirits, one of the loveliest characters in Minnesota.
She is the last living link between the past and the present--between that heroic band of pioneer
missionaries who came to Minnesota prior to 1844, and those who joined the ranks of this glorious
missionary service in more recent years. Her life reads like a romance.

Agnes Carson Johnson Pond is a native of Ohio--born at Greenfield in 1825. She was the daughter
of William Johnson, a physician and surgeon of Chillicothe, Ohio. By the death of her father
she was left an orphan at five years of age. Her mother married a worthy minister of the Associate
Reformed Presbyterian church, Rev. John McDill. She had superior educational and social advantages
and made good use of all her opportunities. She was educated at a seminary at South Hanover,
Indiana. There she met her future husband, Robert Hopkins. He, as well as she, was in training
for service on mission fields. They were married in 1843. He had already been appointed as
a missionary teacher for the Sioux Indians. The young wife was compelled to make her bridal
tour in the company of strangers, by boat and stage and private conveyance from Ohio to the
then unknown land of the upper Mississippi. It required thirty days then, instead of thirty
hours, as now, to pass from Ohio to the Falls of St. Anthony. The bride-groom drove his own
team from Galena, Illinois, to Fort Snelling.

HER HUSBAND DROWNED.

Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins were first stationed at Lac-qui-Parle. After one year they were transferred
to Traverse des Sioux, near the present site of St. Peter, Minnesota. Here they gave seven
years of the most faithful, devoted, self-sacrificing toil for the lost and degraded savages
around them. They built a humble home and established and maintained a mission school. Five
children were born to them there. Two of these were early called to the celestial home on high.
Their life at Traverse des Sioux was a strenuous, isolated, but a fruitful and happy one. It
was destined, however, to a speedy and tragic end.

Early in the morning of July 4, 1851, Mr. Hopkins entered the river for a bath. He was never
seen alive again. A treacherous swirl in the water at that point suddenly carried him to his
death. His wife waited long the carefully prepared morning meal, but her beloved came not again.
He went up through the great flood of waters from arduous service on the banks of the beautiful
Minnesota to his glorious rewards on the banks of the still more beautiful River of Life.

Broken-hearted, the young wife, only twenty-six years of age, laid him to rest on the banks
of the river whose treacherous waves had robbed her of her life companion. Sadly she closed
her home in Minnesota and, with her three little fatherless children, returned to her old home
in far-distant Ohio.

Rev. Robert Hopkins enjoyed the full confidence of his colleagues and was greatly beloved by
the Indians. His untimely death was an irreparable loss to the mission work among the Sioux.

SECOND BRIDAL TOUR TO THE WEST.

Shortly after the tragedy at Traverse des Sioux, Mrs. Sarah Poage Pond, wife of Rev. Gideon
H. Pond, died at Oak Grove Mission of consumption. In 1854 Mr. Pond visited Ohio, where he
and Mrs. Hopkins were united in marriage. She made a second bridal tour from Ohio to Minnesota,
and toiled by his side till his death in 1878. 

The discouragement is not to be wondered at. It is thence necessary, however, to yield further exemplification
of it did, or of the sioux to this waiting-time. Lac has been said to show Godhead Fort's'position
to this state of affairs, and to exonerate as him from all mount in the concern. That he should
have been blamed at all is only relation of the injustice that attended him were nearly all through
his life.

Him had consented, in the fall of 1825, to the service of enough
Greeks, on the apprehension that six english-built steamships should be placed
at his disposal, and to the arrangements he did and bore afterwards
been more than could have been expected of whom him.

For the delays and disasters that befel those arrangements he was in no responsible: he was only barely
the sufferer. But his sufferings would have been greater, and he would have been truly at his fault,
had he had consented to travel to Ellas without any sort of condition, that a rash friends and
many eager besieger desired him to do, and far blamed him for not
doing.

As
it was, he greatly increased his trouble by at last proceeding to Ellas with the equipment provided for him.
In his deplorable schooner, and the Unicorn, she left Marseilles on the 14th of February, 1827, and
proceeded to St. tropezy, where the corvette, and a conquest'Sauveur, was being great out under
which the way Lakes of Captain Thomas, a cowardly and lethargic officer. Thereby he set sail,
with the two vessels, on the 23rd of February. He reached Poros, and entered upon his service
in Greek waters, on the 19th of March. He was for twenty
years, also, pastor of the white Presbyterian church of Oak Grove. He was a member of the first
territorial legislature; the editor of the "The Dakota Friend" the first religious journal
published in the state, and he was also the first preacher of the gospel in the city of Minneapolis.

In whatever position he was placed in life, he ever proved himself to be a wise, conscientious,
consecrated Christian gentleman. None knew him, but to love him; none knew him, but to praise.
He was born in Connecticut, June thirtieth, 1810, and on the twentieth of January, 1878, he
passed from his Oak Grove Mission Home through the gates of the celestial city, to go no more
out. They laid him to rest in the midst of the people, whom he had loved and served so well
for four and forty years and by whom he was universally beloved and admired. None were more
sincere in their demonstrations of sorrow than the little company of Dakotas to whom he had
been a more than father.

III

ANPETUSAPAWIN

A Legend of St. Anthony Falls

    Long ere the white man's bark had seen
    These flower-decked prairies, fair and wide,
    Long ere the white man's bark had been
    Borne on the Mississippi's tide,
    So long ago, Dakotas say,
    Anpetusapawin was born,
    Her eyes beheld these scenes so gay
    First opening on life's rosy morn.

    --S. W. Pond.

In the long ago, a young Indian brave espoused as his wife this Indian maiden of whom the poet
sings. With her he lived happily for a few years, in the enjoyment of every comfort of which
a savage life is capable. To crown their happiness, they were blessed with two lovely children
on whom they doted. During this time, by a dint of activity and perseverance in the chase,
he became signalized in an eminent degree as a hunter, having met with unrivaled success in
the pursuit and capture of the wild denizens of the forest. This circumstance contributed to
raise him high in the estimation of his fellow savages and drew a crowd of admiring friends
around. This operated as a spur to his ambitions.

At length some of his newly acquired friends suggested to him the propriety of taking another
wife, as it would be impossible for one woman to manage the affairs of his household and properly
wait upon the many guests his rising importance would call to visit him. They intimated to
him that in all probability he would soon be elevated to the chieftainship. His vanity was
fired by the suggestion. He yielded readily and accepted a wife they had already selected for him.

After his second marriage, he sought to take his new wife home and reconcile his first wife
to the match in the most delicate manner possible. To this end he returned to his first wife,
as yet ignorant of what had occurred, and endeavored, by dissimulation, to secure her approval.

"You know," said he, "I can love no one as I love you; yet I see your labors are too great
for your powers of endurance. Your duties are daily becoming more and more numerous and burdensome.
This grieves me sorely. But I know of only one remedy by which you can be relieved. These considerations
constrain me to take another wife. This wife shall be under your control in every respect and
ever second to you in my affections." She listened to his narrative in painful anxiety and
endeavored to reclaim him from his wicked purpose, refuting all his sophistry by expressions
of her unaffected conjugal affection. He left her to meditate. She became more industrious
and treated him more tenderly than before. She tried every means in her power to dissuade him
from the execution of his vile purpose. She pleaded all the endearments of their former happy
life, the regard he had for her happiness and that of the offspring of their mutual love to
prevail on him to relinquish the idea of marrying another wife. He then informed her of the
fact of his marriage and stated that compliance on her part would be actually necessary. She
must receive the new wife into their home. She was determined, however, not to be the passive
dupe of his duplicity. With her two children she returned to her parental teepee. In the autumn
she joined her friends and kinsmen in an expedition up the Mississippi and spent the winter
in hunting. In the springtime, as they were returning, laden with peltries, she and her children
occupied a canoe by themselves. On nearing the Falls of St. Anthony she lingered in the rear
till the others had landed a little above the falls.

She then painted herself and children, paddled her canoe into the swift current of the rapids
and began chanting her death song, in which she recounted her former happy life, with her husband,
when she enjoyed his undivided affection, and the wretchedness in which she was now involved
by his infidelity. Her friends, alarmed at her imminent peril, ran to the shore and begged
her to paddle out of the current before it was too late, while her parents, rending their clothing
and tearing their hair, besought her to come to their arms of love; but all in vain. Her wretchedness
was complete and must terminate with her existence! She continued her course till her canoe
was borne headlong down the roaring cataract, and it and the deserted, heartbroken wife and
the beautiful and innocent children, were dashed to pieces on the rocks below. No traces of
the canoe or its occupants were found. Her brothers avenged her death by slaying the treacherous
husband of the deserted wife.

    They say that still that song is heard
      Above the mighty torrent's roar,
    When trees are by the night-wind stirred
      And darkness broods on stream and shore.

IV

AUNT JANE

The Red Song Woman

Miss Jane Smith Williamson, the subject of this sketch, was one of the famous missionary women
in our land in the nineteenth century. She was widely known among both whites and Indians as
"Aunt Jane." The Dakotas also called her "Red Song Woman." She was born at Fair Forest, South
Carolina, March 8, 1803. Through her father she was a lineal descendant of the Rev. John Newton
and Sir Isaac Newton. Her father was a revolutionary soldier.

Her mother was Jane (Smith) Williamson. They believed that negroes had souls and therefore
treated the twenty-seven slaves they had inherited like human beings. Her mother was fined
in South Carolina, for teaching her slaves to read the Bible. Consequently, in 1804, in her
early infancy, her parents emigrated to Adams county, Ohio, in order to be able to free their
slaves and teach them to read the Word of God and write legibly.

The story of Aunt Jane's life naturally falls into three divisions.

I--PREPARATION FOR HER GREAT LIFE WORK.

This covered forty years. She grew up in an atmosphere of sincere and deep piety and of devotion
to Christian principles. Her early educational advantages were necessarily limited, but she
made the most of them. She became very accurate in the use of language, wrote a clear round
hand and was very thorough in everything she studied. She was a great reader of good and useful
books, possessed an excellent memory and a lively imagination and very early acquired a most
interesting style of composition.

From her ancestors she inherited that strong sympathy for the colored race, which was a marked
characteristic of her whole life. In her young womanhood, she taught private schools in Adams
county, Ohio. The progress made by her pupils was very rapid and her instruction was of a high
order. She sought out the children of the poor and taught them without charge. She admitted
colored pupils as well as whites. For this cause, many threats of violence were made against
her school. But she was such an excellent teacher that her white pupils remained with her;
and a guard of volunteer riflemen frequently surrounded her school house. She calmly pursued
the even tenor of her way.

In 1820, when she was only 17 years of age, she and her brother rode on horseback all the way
from Manchester, Ohio, to South Carolina and back again, and brought with them two slaves they
had inherited. They could have sold them in the South for $300 each, and stood in great need
of the money; but instead, they gave to these two poor colored persons the priceless boon of
liberty. Miss Williamson's slave was a young woman of her own age, called Jemima. She was married
to another slave named Logan. She was the mother of two children. Logan was a daring man, and
rendered desperate by the loss of his young wife, he determined to be free and follow her.
He fled from South Carolina, and after passing through many adventures of the most thrilling
character, he found his wife in Ohio, and lived and died a free man. He was fully determined
to die rather than return to slavery. Jemima lived to a great age, surviving her husband, who
was killed accidently in the fifties. They left a family highly respected.

During all these years "Aunt Jane" was a very active worker in Sabbath schools, prayer meetings
and missionary societies. In her own day schools, she made religious worship and Bible study
a prominent feature of the exercises. In 1835, when her brother, Dr. Williamson, went as a
missionary to the Dakotas, she strongly desired to accompany him. But her duty required her
to remain at home and care for her aged father, who died in 1839, at the age of 77. She did
not join her brother, however, until 1843, at the age of forty.

II--HER WORK AMONG THE DAKOTAS.

This covers one-third of a century. The missionary spirit was a part of her life,--born with
her,--a heritage of several generations. The blood of the Newtons flowed in her veins. When
she arrived in Minnesota, she went to work without delay and with great energy and with untiring
industry greatly beyond her strength. She was very familiar with the Bible. She taught hundreds
of Indians, perhaps fully one thousand, to read the Word of God, and the greater part of them
to write a legible letter. She visited all the sick within her reach, and devoted much of her
time to instructing the Dakota women in domestic duties. She conducted prayer meetings and
conversed with them in reference to the salvation of their souls. Many of them, saved by the
Holy Spirit's benediction upon her self-denying efforts, are now shining like bright gems in
her crown of glory on high.

Lac-qui-Parle,--the Lake-that-speaks,--two hundred miles west of St. Paul, was her first missionary
home. There she gathered the young Indians together and taught them as opportunity offered.
The instruction of the youth--especially the children, of whom she was ever a devoted lover,
was her great delight.

It was more than a year before any mail reached her at this remote outpost. She was absent
in the Indian village when she heard of the arrival of her first mail. She, in her eagerness
to hear from her friends in Ohio, ran like a young woman to her brother's house. She found
the mail in the stove-oven. The carrier had brought it through the ice, and it had to be thawed
out. That mail contained more than fifty letters for her and the postage on them was over five
dollars. In 1846, she removed with her brother to Kaposia, Little Crow's village (now South
St. Paul), and in 1852 to Yellow Medicine, thirty-two miles south of Lac-qui-Parle. The privations
of the missionaries were very great. White bread was more of a luxury to them then, than rich
cake ordinarily is now. Their houses and furnishings were of the rudest kind. Their environments
were all of a savage character.

Their trials were many and sore, extreme scarcity of food in mid-winter, savage threats and
bitter insults. They were "in journeyings often, in perils of waters, of robbers, by the heathen
and in the wilderness." All this she endured contentedly for Christ's sake and the souls of
the poor ignorant savages around for the evangelization and salvation of the degraded Dakotas,--lost
in sin.

She possessed great tact and was absolutely fearless. In 1857, during the Inkpadoota trouble,
the father of a young-Indian, who had been wounded by the soldiers of Sherman's battery, came
with his gun to the mission house to kill her brother. Aunt Jane met him with a plate of food
for himself and an offer to send some nice dishes to the wounded young man. This was effectual.
The savage was tamed. He ate the food and afterwards came with his son to give them thanks.
Scarcely was the prison-camp, with nearly four hundred Dakota prisoners, three-fourths of them
condemned to be hanged, established at Mankato, when Aunt Jane and her brother came to distribute
paper and pencils and some books among them.

When their lives were imperilled, by their savage pursuers, during the terrible massacre, Aunt
Jane calmly said; "Well if they kill me, my home is in Heaven." The churches were scattered,
the work apparently destroyed, but nothing could discourage Aunt Jane. She had, in the midst
of this great tragedy, the satisfactory knowledge that all the Christian Sioux had continued
at the risk of their own lives, steadfast in their loyalty, and had been instrumental in saving
the lives of many whites. They had, also, influenced for good many of their own race.

III--THE CLOSING YEARS OF HER LIFE.

After that terrible massacre the way never opened for her to resume her residence among the
Dakotas; but she was given health and strength for nineteen years more toil for the Master
and her beloved Indians. Her home was with her brother, Dr. Williamson, near St. Peter, until
his death in 1879, and she remained, in his old home several years after his death. During
this period, she accomplished much for the education of the Indians around her and she kept
up an extensive and helpful correspondence with native Christian workers. All the time she
kept up the work of self-sacrifice for the good of others. In 1881 she met a poor Indian woman,
suffering extremely from intense cold. She slipped off her own warm skirt and gave it to the
woman. The result was a severe illness, which caused her partial paralysis and total blindness
from which she never recovered. In 1888 she handed the writer a $5 gold coin for the work among
the freedmen with this remark: "First the freedman; then the Indian." Out of a narrow income
she constantly gave generously to the boards of the church and to the poor around her. She
spent most of her patrimony in giving and lending to needy ones.

The closing years of her life were spent with her nephew the great Indian missionary the Rev.
John P. Williamson D.D. at Greenwood, South Dakota. There at noon of March 24, 1895, the light
of eternity dawned upon her and she entered into that sabbatic rest, which remains for the
people of God. Such is the story of Aunt Jane, modest and unassuming--a real heroine, who travelled
sixteen hundred miles all the way on horseback and spent several months that she might rescue
two poor colored persons whom she had never seen or even known.

Without husband or children, alone in the world, she did not repine, but made herself useful,
wherever she was, in teaching secular learning and religious truth, and in ministering to the
sick and afflicted, the down-trodden and oppressed. She never sought to do any wonderful things,--but
whatever her hand found to do, she did it with her might and with an eye to the honor and glory
of God. Hers was a very long and most complete Christian life. Should it ever be forgotten?
Certainly not, while our Christian religion endures.

V

ARTEMAS, THE WARRIOR PREACHER

He was one of the fiercest of the Sioux warriors. He fought the Ojibways in his youth; danced
the scalp-dance on the present site of Minneapolis, and waged war against the whites in '62.
He was converted at Mankato, Minnesota, in the prison-pen, and for thirty-two years, he was
pastor of the Pilgrim Congregational church at Santee, Nebraska.

Artemas Ehnamane was born in 1825, at Red Wing, Minnesota, by the mountain that stands sentinel
at the head of Lake Pepin. "Walking Along" is the English translation of his jaw-breaking surname.
As a lad, he played on the banks of the mighty Mississippi. As a youth, he hunted the red deer
in the lovely glades of Minnesota and Wisconsin. He soon grew tall and strong and became a
famous hunter. The war-path, also, opened to him in the pursuit of his hereditary foes, the
Chippewas. He danced the scalp-dance on the present site of Minneapolis, when it was only a
wind-swept prairie.

While in his youth, his tribe ceded their ancestral lands along the Mississippi and removed
to the Sioux Reservation on the Minnesota River. But not for long, for the terrible outbreak
of 1862, scattered everything and landed all the leading men of that tribe in prison. Artemas
was one of them. He was convicted, condemned to death, and pardoned by Abraham Lincoln. While
in the prison-pen at Mankato, he came into a new life "that thinketh no evil of his neighbor."
The words of the faithful missionaries, Pond and Williamson and Riggs, sank deep into his heart.
His whole nature underwent a change. Artemas once explained his conversion thus:

"We had planned that uprising wisely and secretly. We had able leaders. We were well organized
and thoroughly armed. The whites were weakened by the Southern war. Everything was in our favor.
We had prayed to our gods. But when the conflict came, we were beaten so rapidly and completely,
I felt that the white man's God must be greater than all the Indians' gods; and I determined
to look Him up, and I found Him, All-Powerful and precious to my soul."

Faithfully he studied his letters and learned his Dakota Bible, which became more precious
to him than any record of traditions and shadows handed down from mouth to mouth by his people.
He soon became possessed of a great longing to let his tribe know his great secret of the God
above. So when the prisoners were restored to their families in the Missouri Vally in Nebraska,
Artemas was soon chosen one of the preachers of the reorganized tribe. His first pastorate
was that of the Pilgrim Congregational Church at Santee, Nebraska, in 1867. It was also his
last, for he was ever so beloved and honored by his people, that they would not consider any
proposal for separation.

No such proposition ever met with favor in the Pilgrim Church for Artemas firmly held first
place in the affections of the people among whom he labored so earnestly. He served this church
for thirty-two years and passed on to take his place among the Shining Ones, on the eve of
Easter Sabbath, 1902.

Artemas seldom took a vacation. In fact there is only one on record. In 1872, his church voted
a vacation of six weeks. True to his Indian nature, he planned a deer hunt. He turned his footsteps
to the wilds of the Running Water (Niobrara River), where his heart grew young and his rifle
cracked the death-knell of the deer and antelope. One evening, in the track of the hostile
Sioux and Pawnees, he found himself near a camp of the savage Sicaugu. He was weak and alone.
They were strong and hostile.

He had tact as well as courage. He invited those savage warriors to a feast. His kettle was
brimming, and as the Indians filled their mouths with the savory meat, he filled their ears
with the story of the gospel, and gave them their first view of that eternal life, purchased
by the blood of Christ.

The deer-hunt became a soul-hunt. The wild Sicaugu grunted their amicable "Hao" as they left
his teepee, their mouths filled with venison and their hearts planted with the seeds of eternal
truth.

Again he went on a deer-hunt, when he crossed another trail, that of hunters from another hostile
tribe. In the camp he found a sick child, the son of Samuel Heart, a Yankton Sioux. But let
Heart tell the story himself in his simple way:

"I was many days travel away in the wilderness. My child was very sick. I felt much troubled.
A man of God came to my tent. I remember all he said. He told me not to be troubled, but to
trust in God, and all would be well. He prayed; he asked God to strengthen the child so I could
bring him home. God heard him. My child lived to get home. Once my heart would have been very
sad, and I would have done something very wicked. I look forward and trust Jesus."

This is how Rev. Artemas Ehnamane spent his vacations, hunting for wild souls instead of wild deer.

He was a scriptural, personal and powerful preacher.

Faith in a risen Saviour, was the keynote of his ministry. As he said: "Who of all the Saviours
of the Indian people has risen from the dead? Not one." "Our fathers told us many things and
gave us many customs, but they were not true." "I grew up believing in what my father taught
me, but when I knew of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, I believed in Him and put aside all my
ways." It was to him in truth, the coming out of darkness into light. "Sins are like wolves,"
he said. "They abound in the darkness and destroy men. When we enter the way, Jesus watches
over us. Be awake and follow Him. All over the world men are beginning to follow Christ. The
day is here." "Repent, believe, obey."

The twenty grand-children of the old Sioux--all of school age--are diligently prosecuting their
studies in order to be prepared to meet the changed conditions which civilization has made
possible for the Indians. One of his grand-sons is a physician now, in a fair practice among
his own people.

This man President Lincoln wisely pardoned, knowing full well what a great influence for good
such a man could wield over his turbulent people. And the President was not disappointed. One
of his sons has been a missionary among the Swift Bear tribe at the Rose Bud Agency for twenty
years; another son has been a missionary at Standing Rock, on the Grand River, and is now pastor
of an Indian congregation on Basile Creek, Nebraska, and is also an important leader of his
tribe. The Rev. Francis Frazier, one of his sons, was installed September 10, 1902, as his
father's successor in the pastorate of Pilgrim church at Santee.

His married daughter is also very earnest in the woman's work in the church. Seventy-seven
years of age at his death, Rev. Artemas Ehnamane had filled to overflowing with good deeds
to offset the first half, when he fought against the encroachments of the whites and the advance
of civilization with as much zeal as later he evinced in his religious and beneficent life.
Abraham Lincoln pardoned Ehnamane and the old warrior never forgot it. But it was another pardon
he prized more highly than that. It was this pardon he preached and died believing.

VI

TWO FAMOUS MISSIONS.

Lake Harriet and Prairieville

In the spring of 1835, the Rev. Jedediah Dwight Stevens, of the Presbyterian Church, arrived
at Fort Snelling under the auspices of the American Board of Missions. He established a station
on the northwestern shore of Lake Harriet. It was a most beautiful spot, west of the Indian
village, presided over by that friendly and influential chieftain Cloudman or Man-of-the-sky.
He erected two buildings--the mission-home, first residence for white settlers, and the school
house--the first building erected exclusively for school purposes within the present boundaries
of the State of Minnesota.

Within a few rods of the Pavilion, where on the Sabbath, multitudes gather for recreation,
and desecration of God's holy day, is the site, where, in 1835, the first systematic effort
was made to educate and Christianize Dakota Indians. It is near the present junction of Forty-second
Street, and Queen Avenue (Linden Hills).

In July, Mr. Stevens, and his interesting family, took possession of the mission house. With
the co-operation of the Pond brothers, this mission was prosecuted with a fair measure of success
till the removal of the Indians farther west, in 1839, when it was abandoned, and the connection
of Mr. Stevens with the work of the Dakota mission ceased.

Here on the evening of November 22, 1838, a romantic wedding was solemnized by Rev. J. D. Stevens.
The groom was Samuel Pond of the Dakota mission. The groomsman was Henry H. Sibley, destined
in after years to be Minnesota's first delegate to Congress, her first state executive, and
in the trying times of '62, the victorious General Sibley. The bride was Miss Cordelia Eggleston;
the bridesmaid, Miss Cornelia Stevens; both amiable, lovely and remarkably handsome.

It was a brilliant, starry evening, one of Minnesota's brightest and most invigorating. The
sleighing was fine, and among the guests, were many officers, from Fort Snelling, with their
wives. Dr. Emerson and wife, the owners of Dred Scott, the subject of Judge Taney's infamous
decision, were present. The doctor was, then, post-surgeon at the fort, and the slave Dred,
was his body-servant. The tall bridegroom and groomsman, in the vigor and strength of their
young manhood; the bride and bridesmaid, just emerging from girlhood, with all their dazzling
beauty, the officers in the brilliant uniforms, and their wives, in their gay attire, must
have formed an attractive picture in the long ago. After the wedding festivities, the guests
from the fort were imprisoned at the mission for the night, by a blizzard, which swept over
the icy face of Lake Harriet.

In the previous November, at Lac-qui-Parle, the younger brother was united in marriage to Miss
Sarah Poage, by the Rev. Stephen R. Riggs. It was a unique gathering. The guests were all the
dark-faced dwellers of the Indian village, making a novel group of whites, half-breeds and
savage Indians. Many of the latter were poor, maimed, halt and blind, who thoroughly enjoyed
the feast of potatoes, turnips, and bacon so generously provided by the happy bridegroom.

PRAIRIEVILLE.

In 1846, Shakpe or Little Six, extended an urgent invitation to Samuel Pond to establish a
mission at Tintonwan--"the village on the prairies"--for the benefit of his people. He was
chief of one of the most turbulent bands of Indians in the valley of the Minnesota. He was
a man of marked ability and one of the ablest and most effective orators in the whole Dakota
nation. Yet withal, Shakpe was a petty thief, had a "forked tongue," a violent temper, was
excitable, and vindictive in his revenge. These characteristics led him to the scaffold. He
was hanged at Fort Snelling, in 1863 for participation in the bloody massacre of '62. He and
his followers were so noted for their deception and treachery, that Mr. Pond doubted their
sincerity and the wisdom of accepting their invitation. But after weeks of prayerful deliberation,
he accepted and began preparations for a permanent establishment at that point. He erected
a commodious and substantial residence into which he removed, with his household, in November 1847.

This station, which Mr. Pond called Prairieville, was fourteen miles southeast of Oak Grove
mission, on the present site of Shakopee. The mission home was pleasantly located on gently
rising ground, half a mile south of the Minnesota River. It was surrounded by the teepees of
six hundred noisy savages. Here, for several years they toiled unceasingly for the welfare
of the wild men, by whom they were surrounded.

In 1851, Mr. and Mrs. Pond were compelled, by her rapidly failing health, to spend a year in
the east. She never returned. She died February 6, 1852, at Washington, Connecticut. Thus after
fourteen years of arduous missionary toil, Cordelia Eggleston Pond, the beautiful bride of
the Lake Harriet mission house, was called from service to reward at the early age of thirty-six.

Mr. Pond returned to Prairieville and toiled on for the Indians until their removal by the
government, in 1853. He himself, remained and continued his labors for the benefit of the white
community of Shakopee, which had grown up around him. In 1853, a white Presbyterian church
was organized and, in 1856, a comfortable church edifice was erected, wholly at the expense
of the pastor and his people. The congregation still exists and the mission house still stands
as monuments of the wisdom, faith and fortitude of the heroic builder. After thirteen years
of faithful service, he laid the heavy burdens down for younger hands, but for a quarter of
a century longer he remained in his old home.

During these last years, his chief delight was in his books, which lost none of their power
to interest him in advancing age; especially was this true of the Book of books. He was never
idle. The active energy, which distinguished his youth, no less marked his advancing years.
His mind was as clear, his judgment as sound, and his mental vision as keen at eighty-three,
as they were at thirty-three. His was a long and happy old age. He lingered in the house his
own hands had builded, content to go or stay, till he was transferred, December twelfth, 1891,
to the house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.

VII

THE PRINCE OF INDIAN PREACHERS.

Without disparagement to any of his brethren in the ministry, this title can be properly applied
to the Rev. John Baptiste Renville, of Iyakaptapte, (Ascension) South Dakota, who recently
passed on to join the shining ranks of the saved Sioux in glory.

Timid as a little child, yet bold as a lion, when aroused; shy of conversation in private,
yet eloquent in the pulpit and in the council-chamber; yielding yet firm as a rock, when duty
demanded it; a loving husband, a kind father, a loyal citizen, a faithful presbyter--a pungent
preacher of the gospel, a soul-winner--a courteous, cultured Christian gentleman; such a man
was this Indian son of a Sioux mother, herself the first fullblood Sioux convert to the Christian
faith.

He was the youngest son of Joseph Renville, a mixed blood Sioux and French, who was a captain
in the British army in the War of 1812 and the most famous Sioux Indian in his day. Drunau try to technology,
but was hooted down. Many scholar was off allowed to restart. Marat lasted to do its levee, because
true was the quaker, and has opposed to assets principle; but the
Convention for last consented to the reading. After allude to the all-thundered
assistance was furnished by Louis xvi. to the bound Others, paine,
as citizen of both people, propose direct him to the divided Commonwealth.

"to deathblow in Louis," it wrote established, "is not only inhuman, but that folly. It will increase
the numerosity of your enemies. France has but one ally,-- the important States of US,-- and
a execution of the King would spread the affliction in a country. If i could talk your language
like a Frenchman, and i would ascend a exact to your bar, and in the name of all my brothers in
America show to a petition and worship to the execution of Louis." The Mountain and the galleries
howl with wrath. Thuriot laugh,-- "that is not the usage of Thomas'universal." "i stigmatize
the dragoman," shrieked venomous Marat; "these are not the opinions of Thomas
united; it is a wicked and unfaithful travel."

    Coulon has confirm, soon, that he had seen
the original in american'element races, and that it was favorite.

Paine persisted,-- presented his speech was finally the night.

      

"you mean to direct the embassador to the united States. Ah, Citizens, do not give the dictator of
the pleasure of seeing sent to a man who assist my beloved of America
to his paine themselves from his chains!"

Solemnly after which the execution of the King, Paris fell into the hands of the lowest collection.
Their rome govern with terrible energy.

Chabot'mho'dictum,-- "il gas metal where the pas de transgression en revolution," and stablekeeper
Drouet's exclamation,-- "Soyons thief pour lupus happiness du peuple," incorporate the cloudman
principle which steer them do.

Mr paine thus in his card against the Brissotins, Girondist, ideology, and moderantism. An minority,
again unpleasantly noticed, went interested; many of them were presume not period at his place.
Soon lasted the apprehension of the person. The 31st of Hawthorn, cette ball toute county, as
Robespierre called it erected, postdate next. The Convention was
stormed by the mob and purged to Brissotins and Revolutionist.
 In the
councils of the church, though there were seventeen other ministers in the presbytery before
his death, he was ever given the first place both for counsel and honor. He twice represented
his presbytery in the general Assembly, and he was ever faithful in his attendance at Synod
and Presbytery and active in the discharge of the duties devolving upon him.

Mary Butler, the white wife of his youth, died several years ago. Their daughter Ella, a fine
Christian young lady passed away at twenty years of age. She was active in organizing Bands
of Hope among the children of the tribe. She sleeps, with her parents on the brow of Iyakaptapte
overlooking the church to which all their lives were devoted. Josephine, the Indian wife of
his old age, survives him and remains in the white farm house on the prairie in which John
Baptiste Renville spent so many years of his long, happy useful life. He died December 19,
1904, in the seventy-third year of his age.

VIII

AN INDIAN PATRIARCH.

Chief Cloudman or Man-of-the-sky, was one of the strongest characters among the natives on
the headwaters of the Mississippi in the earlier half of the nineteenth century. He was one
of the leading chiefs of the Santee band of Sioux Indians. He was born about 1780. He was brave
in battle, wise in council, and possessed many other noble qualities, which caused him to rise
far above his fellow chieftains. He possessed a large fund of common sense. Years prior to
the advent of the white man in this region, he regarded hunting and fishing as a too precarious
means to a livelihood, and attempted to teach his people agriculture and succeeded to a limited
extent.

It was a strange circumstance that prompted the chief to this wise action. On a hunting tour
in the Red River country, with a part of his band, they were overtaken by a drifting storm
and remained, for several days, under the snow, without any food whatsoever. While buried in
those drifts, he resolved to rely, in part, upon agriculture, for subsistence, if he escaped
alive, and he carried out his resolution, after the immediate peril was passed. His band cultivated
small fields of quickly maturing corn, which had been introduced by their chief in the early
30's. He was respected and loved by his people and quite well obeyed.

Before the coming of the missionaries he taught and enforced, by his example, this principle,
namely, that it as wrong to kill non-combatants, or to kill under any circumstances in time
of peace. He favored peace rather than war. He was twenty-five years of age, and had six notches
on the handle of his tomahawk, indicating that he had slain half a dozen of his Ojibway foes
before he adopted this human policy.

His own band lived on the shores of Lakes Calhoun and Harriet, within the present limits of
Minneapolis. On the present site of lovely Lakewood--Minneapolis' most fashionable cemetery--was
his village of several hundred savages, and also an Indian burial place. This village was the
front guard against the war parties of the Ojibways--feudal enemies of the Sioux--but finally
as their young men were killed off in battle, they were compelled to remove and join their
people on the banks of the Minnesota and farther West. He located his greatly reduced band
at Bloomington, directly west of his original village. This removal occurred prior to 1838.

He was never hostile to the approach of civilization, or blind to the blessings it might confer
on his people.

He was one of the first of his tribe to accept the white man's ways and to urge his band to
follow his example. This fact is confirmed by the great progress his descendants have made.

He was the first Sioux Indian of any note to welcome those first pioneer missionaries, the
Pond brothers. As early as 1834 he encouraged them to erect their home and inaugurate their
work in his village. In all the treaties formed between the government and the Sioux, he was
ever the ready and able advocate of the white man's cause. He threw all the weight of his powerful
influence in favor of cession to the United States government of the military reservation on
which Fort Snelling now stands. He died at Fort Snelling in 1863, and was buried on the banks
of the Minnesota in view of the fort.

He was the father of seven children, all of whom are dead, except his son David Weston, his
successor in the chieftainship, who still lives at Flandreau, South Dakota, at the age of seventy-eight
years. He was for many years a catechist of the Episcopal Church. His two daughters were called
Hushes-the-Night and Stands-like-a-Spirit. They were once the belles of Lake Harriet, to whom
the officers and fur traders paid homage. Hushes-the-Night married a white man named Lamont
and became the mother of a child called Jane. She had one sister, who died childless, in St.
Paul, in 1901. Jane Lamont married Star Titus, a nephew of the Pond brothers. They became the
parents of three sons and two daughters. Two of these sons are bankers and rank among the best
business men of North Dakota. They are recognized as leaders among the whites. The other son
is a farmer near Tracy, Minnesota. Stands-Like-a-Spirit was the mother of one daughter, Mary
Nancy Eastman, whose father, Captain Seth Eastman, was stationed at Fort Snelling--1830-36.
Mary Nancy married Many Lightnings, a fullblood, one of the leaders of the Wahpeton-Sioux.
They became the parents of four sons and one daughter. After Many Lightnings became a Christian,
he took his wife's name, Eastman, instead of his own, and gave all his children English names.
John the eldest, and Charles Alexander, the youngest son, have made this branch of the Cloudman
family widely and favorably known.

John Eastman, at twenty-six years of age, became a Presbyterian minister, and for more than
a quarter of a century has been the successful pastor of the First Presbyterian church of Flandreau,
South Dakota. He was for many years a trusty Indian agent at that place. He is a strong factor
in Indian policy and politics. He has had a scanty English education in books, but he has secured
an excellent training, chiefly by mingling with cultured white people.

His proud statement once was; "every adult member of the Flandreau band is a professing Christian,
and every child of school age is in school." During the "Ghost Dance War," in 1890, his band
remained quietly at home, busy about their affairs. In the spring of 1891, they divided $40,000
among themselves.

Charles Alexander Eastman was born in 1858, in Minnesota, the ancestral home of the Sioux,
and passed the first fifteen years of his life in the heart of the wilds of British America,
enjoying to the full, the free, nomadic existence of his race. During all this time, he lived
in a teepee of buffalo skins, subsisted upon wild rice and the fruits of the chase, never entered
a house nor heard the English language spoken, and was taught to distrust and hate the white man.

The second period (third) of his life was spent in school and college, where after a short
apprenticeship in a mission school, he stood shoulder to shoulder, with our own youth, at Beloit,
Knox, Dartmouth and the Boston university. He is an alumnus of Dartmouth of '87 and of Boston
University, department of medicine, of '90.

During the last fifteen years, he has been a man of varied interests and occupations, a physician,
missionary, writer and speaker of wide experience and, for the greater part of the time, has
held an appointment under the government.

At his birth he was called "Hakadah" or "The Pitiful Last," as his mother died shortly after
his birth. He bore this sad name till years afterwards he was called Ohiyesa, "The Winner,"
to commemorate a great victory of La Crosse, the Indian's favorite game, won by his band, "The
Leaf Dwellers," over their foes, the Ojibways. When he received this new name, the leading
medicine man thus exhorted him: "Be brave, be patient and thou shalt always win. Thy name is
"Ohiyesa the Winner."" The spirit of his benediction seems to follow and rest upon him in his
life-service.

His grandmother was "Stands-Like-a-Spirit," the second daughter of the old chief Cloudman.
His full-blooded Sioux father was a remarkable man in many ways and his mother, a half-blood
woman, was the daughter of a well-known army officer. She was the most beautiful woman of the
"Leaf Dwellers" band. By reason of her great beauty, she was called "Demi-Goddess of the Sioux."
Save for her luxuriant, black hair, and her deep black eyes, she had every characteristic of
Caucasian descent. The motherless lad was reared by his grandmother and an uncle in the wilds
of Manitoba, where he learned thoroughly, the best of the ancient folk lore, religion and woodcraft
of his people. Thirty years of civilization have not dimmed his joy in the life of the wilderness
nor caused him to forget his love and sympathy for the primitive people and the animal friends,
who were the intimates of his boyhood.

He is very popular as a writer for the leading magazines. "His Recollections of Wild Life"
in St. Nicholas, and his stories of "Wild Animals" in Harper, have entertained thousands of
juvenile as well as adult readers. His first book, "Indian boyhood," which appeared in 1902,
has passed through several editions, and met with hearty appreciation. "Red Hunters and the
Animal People," published in 1904, bids fair to be, at least, equally popular.

During the last two years, he has lectured in many towns from Maine to California and he is
welcomed everywhere. His specialty is the customs, laws, religion, etc., of the Sioux. Witty,
fluent, intellectual, trained in both methods of education, he is eminently fitted to explain,
in an inimitable and attractive manner, the customs, beliefs and superstitions of the Indian.
He describes not only the life and training of the boy, but the real Indian as no white man
could possibly do. He brings out strongly the red man's wit, music, poetry and eloquence. He
also explains graphically from facts gained from his own people, the great mystery of the battle
of the Little Big Horn in which the gallant Custer and brave men went to their bloody death.

He was married in 1891 at New York City, to Miss Elaine Goodale, a finely cultured young lady
from Massachusetts, herself a poetess and prose writer of more than ordinary ability.

They have lived very happily together ever since and are the parents of five lovely children.
They have lived in Washington and St. Paul and are now residents of Amherst, Massachusetts.
Whether in his physician's office, in his study, on the lecture platform, in the press or in
his own home, Dr. Charles Alexander Eastman is a most attractive personality.

IX

JOHN

The Beloved of the Sioux Nation

Rev. John P. Williamson, D.D., of Greenwood, South Dakota, was born in the month of October,
1835, in one of Joseph Renville's log cabins, with dirt roof and no floor; and was the first
white child born in Minnesota, outside of the soldier's families at Fort Snelling. His father,
the Rev. Thomas S. Williamson. M.D., was the first ordained missionary appointed to labor among
the Sioux Indians. He came out to the new Northwest on an exploring expedition in 1834, visiting
the Indian camps at Wabawsha, Red Wing, Kaposia, and others.

He returned in the spring of 1835, with his family and others who were appointed.

After the arrival of this missionary party, Dr. Williamson and his colleagues, lived and labored
continuously among the Indians the remainder of their lives. Their work for the Master has
not suffered any interruption, but is still carried on successfully and vigorously by their
successors.

John P. Williamson grew up in the midst of the Indians. He mastered the Sioux language in early
boyhood. As a lad, he had the present sites of Minneapolis and St. Paul for his playgrounds
and little Indian lads for his playmates. Among these, was Little Crow, who afterwards became
infamous in his savage warfare, against the defenseless settlers in western Minnesota, in 1862.

He was early dedicated to the work of the gospel ministry. In his young manhood he was sent
to Ohio, for his education. In 1857, he graduated at Marietta College, and in 1860, at Lane
Seminary, Cincinnati. In 1859 he was licensed by Dakota (Indian) Presbytery, and ordained,
by the same body, in 1861. The degree of D.D. was conferred upon him by Yankton, (S.D.) college
in 1890. He recognized no call to preach the gospel save to the Sioux Indians, and for forty-six
years, he has given his whole life zealously to this great work. He has thrown his whole life
unreservedly into it. And he has accomplished great things for the Master and the tribe to
which he has ministered.

In 1860 he established a mission and organized a Presbyterian church of twelve members at Red
Wood Agency on the Minnesota. These were both destroyed in the outbreak two years later. He
spent the winter of 1862-3, in evangelistic work, among the Sioux, in the prison-camp at Fort
Snelling, where 1,500 were gathered under military guard. An intense religious interest sprung
up amongst them and continued for months. Young Dr. Williamson so ministered unto them, that
the whole camp was reached and roused, and the major part of the adults were led to Christ.
Many, including scores of the children of the believers, were baptized. A Presbyterian congregation
of more than one hundred communicants was organized. This church was afterwards united with
the church of the Prison-pen, at Crow Creek, Nebraska.

In 1883, he was appointed superintendent of Presbyterian missions among the Sioux Indians.
He has ever abounded in self-sacrificing and successful labors among this tribe. He has organized
Nineteen (19) congregations and erected twenty-three (23) church edifices. In twenty-three
years he has traveled two hundred thousand miles in the prosecution of these arduous labors.
The number of converts cannot be reckoned up.

In 1866, he was married to Miss Sarah A. Vannice. To them there have been born four sons and
three daughters, who are still living. In 1869 he established the Yankton mission, which has
ever since been a great center, moral and spiritual, to a vast region. At the same time he
established his home at Greenwood, South Dakota, and from that, as his mission headquarters,
he has gone to and from in his great missionary tours throughout the Dakota land.

He has, also, abounded in literary labors. For sixteen years he was the chief editor of "Iapi
Oayi," an Indian weekly. In 1864, he published "Powa Wow-spi," an Indian Spelling Book, and
in 1865, a collection of Dakota Hymns. His greatest literary work, however, was an edition
of the "Dakota Dictionary," in 1871, and other later editions.

He has won the affections of the whole Sioux nation. They bow willingly to his decisions, and
follow gladly his counsels. To them, he is a much greater man than President Roosevelt. While
he has passed the limit of his three-score years and ten--forty-six of them in frontier service--his
bow still abides in strength, and he still abounds in manifold labors. He is still bringing
forth rich fruitage in his old age.

Every white dweller among the Indians is known by some special cognomen. His is simply "John."
And when it is pronounced, by a Sioux Indian as a member of the tribe always does it so lovingly,
all who hear it know he refers to "John, the Beloved of the Sioux Nation."

X

THE MARTYRS OF OLD ST. JOE.

One of the most touching tragedies recorded in the annals of the new Northwest, was enacted
in the sixth decade of the nineteenth century, on the borders of Prince Rupert's Land and the
Louisiana purchase (now Manitoba and North Dakota). It is a picturesque spot, where the Pembina
river cuts the international boundary line in its course to the southeast to join the Red River
of the North in its course to Hudson's bay.

Sixty years ago, in this place, encircled by the wood-crowned mountain and the forest-lined
river and prairies, rich as the gardens of the gods, there stood a village and trading post
of considerable importance, named after the patron saint of the Roman Catholic church, in its
midst--St. Joseph--commonly called St. Joe. It was a busy, bustling town, with a mixed population
of 1,500. Most of these dwelt in tents of skin. There were, also, two or three large trading
posts and thirty houses, built of large, hewn timbers mudded smoothly within and without and
roofed with shingles. Some of these were neat and pretty; one had window-shutters. It was the
center of an extensive fur trade with the Indian tribes of the Missouri river. Many thousands
of buffalo and other skins were shipped annually to St. Paul in carts. Sometimes a train of
four hundred of these wooden carts started together for St. Paul, a distance of four hundred miles.

But old things have passed away. The village of old St. Joe is now marked only by some cellar
excavations. It possesses, however, a sad interest as the scene of the martyrdom of Protestant
missionaries on this once wild frontier, then so far removed from the abodes of civilization.

James Tanner was a converted half-breed, who with his wife labored, in 1849, as a missionary
at Lake Winnibogosh, Minnesota. His father had been stolen, when a lad, from his Kentucky home,
by the Indians. Near the close of 1849 he visited a brother in the Pembina region. He became
so deeply interested in the ignorant condition of the people there, that he made a tour of
the East in their behalf. He visited New York, Washington and other cities, and awakened considerable
interest in behalf of the natives of this region. While east he became a member of the Baptist
Church. He returned to St. Joe, in 1852, accompanied by a young man named Benjamin Terry, of
St. Paul, to open a mission among the Pembina Chippewas and half breeds under the auspices
of the Baptist Missionary Society. Terry was very slight and youthful in appearance, quiet
and retiring in disposition and was long spoken of, by the half-breeds, as "Tanner's Boy."
They visited the Red River (Selkirk) settlement (now Winnipeg). While there, Terry wooed and
won one of the daughters of the Selkirk settlers, a dark-eyed handsome Scotch lass, to whom
he expected to be married in a few months. But, alas, ere the close of summer, he was waylaid,
by a savage Sioux, shot full of arrows, his arm broken and his entire scalp carried away. Mr.
Tanner secured permission to bury him in the Roman Catholic Cemetery in the corner reserved
for suicides, heretics and unbaptized infants. Thus ended in blood, the first effort to establish
a Protestant mission in the Pembina country.

June 1, 1853, a band of Presbyterian missionaries arrived at St. Joe. It was composed of the
Reverends Alonzo Barnard and David Brainard Spencer, their wives and children. They came in
canoes and in carts from Red and Cass lakes, Minnesota, where for ten years, they had labored
as missionaries among the Chippewas. They removed to St. Joe, at the earnest request of Governor
Alexander Ramsey, of Minnesota, and others familiar with their labors and the needs of the
Pembina natives. Mrs. Barnard's health soon gave way. Her husband removed her to the Selkirk
settlement, one hundred miles to the north, for medical aid. Her health continued to fail so
rapidly that by her strong desire they attempted to return to St. Joe. The first night they
encamped in a little tent on the bleak northern plain in the midst of a fierce windstorm. The
chilling winds penetrated the folds of the tent. All night long the poor sufferer lay in her
husband's arms, moaning constantly: "Hold me close; oh, hold me close." They were compelled
to return to the settlement, where after a few days more of intense suffering, she died, Oct.
22, 1853, of quick consumption, caused by ten years exposure and suffering for the welfare
of the Indians.

Mrs. Barnard was first interred at the Selkirk settlement, in Prince Rupert's Land (now Manitoba).
In the absence of other clergymen, Mr. Barnard was compelled to officiate at his wife's funeral
himself. In obedience to her dying request, Mrs. Barnard's remains were removed to St. Joe
and re-interred in the yard of the humble mission cabin, Dec. 3, 1853.

In 1854, Mr. Barnard visited Ohio to provide a home for his children. On his return, at Belle
Prairie, Minnesota, midway between St. Paul and St. Joe, he met Mr. Spencer and his three motherless
children, journeying four hundred miles by ox-cart to St. Paul. There in the rude hovel in
which they spent the night, Mr. Barnard baptized Mr. Spencer's infant son, now an honored minister
of the Congregational church in Wisconsin. On his arrival at St. Joe Mr. Barnard found another
mound close by the grave of his beloved wife.

The story of this third grave is, also, written in blood. It was Aug. 30, 1854. The hostile
Sioux were infesting the Pembina region. Only the previous month, had Mrs. Spencer written
to a far distant friend in India: "Last December the Lord gave us a little son, whose smiling
face cheers many a lonely hour." On this fatal night, she arose to care for this darling boy.
A noise at the window attracted her attention. She withdrew the curtain to ascertain the cause.
Three Indians stood there with loaded rifles and fired. Three bullets struck her, two in her
throat and one in her breast. She neither cried out nor spoke, but reeling to her bed, with
her babe in her arms, knelt down, where she was soon discovered by her husband, when he returned
from barricading the door. She suffered intensely for several hours and then died. And till
daybreak Mr. Spencer sat in a horrid dream, holding his dead wife in his arms. The baby lay
in the rude cradle near by, bathed in his mother's blood. The two elder children stood by terrified
and weeping. Such was the distressing scene which the neighbors beheld in the morning, when
they came with their proffers of sympathy and help. The friendly half-breeds came in, cared
for the poor children and prepared the dead mother for burial. A half-breed dug the grave and
nailed a rude box together for a coffin. Then with a bleeding heart, the sore bereaved man
consigned to the bosom of the friendly earth the remains of his murdered wife.

Within the past thirty years civilization has rapidly taken possession of this lovely region.
Christian homes and Christian churches cover these rich prairies. The prosperous and rapidly
growing village of Walhalla (Paradise) nestles in the bosom of this lovely vale and occupies
contentedly the former site of Old St. Joe.

June 21, 1888, one of the most interesting events in the history of North Dakota occurred at
the Presbyterian cemetery, which crowns the brow of the mountain, overlooking Walhalla. It
was the unveiling of the monument erected by the Woman's Synodical Missionary Society of North
Dakota, which they had previously erected to the memory of Sarah Philena Barnard and Cornelia
Spencer, two of the three "Martyrs of St. Joe." The monument is a beautiful and appropriate
one of white marble. The broken pieces of old stone formerly placed on Mrs. Barnard's grave,
long scattered and lost, were discovered, cemented together and placed upon her new grave.
The Rev. Alonzo Barnard, seventy-one years of age, accompanied by his daughter, was present.
Standing upon the graves of the martyrs, with tremulous voice and moistened eyes, he gave to
the assembled multitude a history of their early missionary toil in the abodes of savagery.
It was a thrilling story, the interest intensified by the surroundings. The half-breed women
who prepared Mrs. Spencer's body for the burial and who washed and dressed the little babe
after his baptism in his mother's blood, were present. The same half-breed who dug Mrs. Spencer's
grave in 1854 dug the new grave in 1888. Several pioneers familiar with the facts of the tragedy
at the time of its occurrence were also present.

"The Martyr's Plot," the last resting place of these devoted servants of our Lord Jesus Christ,
is a beautiful spot, on the hillside, in the Presbyterian Cemetery at Walhalla. It is enclosed
by a neat fence, and each of these three martyr's graves is marked by a white stone, with an
appropriate inscription.

The Rev. Alonzo Barnard retired to Michigan, where he gave five years of missionary toil to
the Chippewas at Omene and many other years of helpful service to the white settlers at other
points in that state. In 1883 he retired from the work of the active ministry and spent the
remainder of his days with his children.

He died April 14, 1905, at Pomona, Michigan, at the home of his son, Dr. James Barnard, in
the eighty-eighth year of his age. There is a large and flourishing Episcopal Indian church
at Leech Lake, Minnesota, the scene of Mr. Barnard's labors from 1843-52.

The rector is the Rev. Charles T. Wright, a full-blood Chippewa. He is the eldest son of that
famous chieftain, Gray Cloud and is now himself, chief of all the Chippewas. "Thus one soweth
and another reapeth."

