At first we may be disposed to say that livingness consists in the power of motion and deadness
in its absence; but a little enquiry into the most recent researches of science will soon show
us that this distinction does not go deep enough. It is now one of the fully-established facts
of physical science that no atom of what we call "dead matter" is without motion. On the table
before me lies a solid lump of steel, but in the light of up-to-date science I know that the
atoms of that seemingly inert mass are vibrating with the most intense energy, continually
dashing hither and thither, impinging upon and rebounding from one another, or circling round
like miniature solar systems, with a ceaseless rapidity whose complex activity is enough to
bewilder the imagination. The mass, as a mass, may lie inert upon the table; but so far from
being destitute of the element of motion it is the abode of the never-tiring energy moving
the particles with a swiftness to which the speed of an express train is as nothing. It is,
therefore, not the mere fact of motion that is at the root of the distinction which we draw
instinctively between spirit and matter; we must go deeper than that. The solution of the problem
will never be found by comparing Life with what we call deadness, and the reason for this will
become apparent later on; but the true key is to be found by comparing one degree of livingness
with another. There is, of course, one sense in which the quality of livingness does not admit
of degrees; but there is another sense in which it is entirely a question of degree. We have
no doubt as to the livingness of a plant, but we realize that it is something very different
from the livingness of an animal. Again, what average boy would not prefer a fox-terrier to
a goldfish for a pet? Or, again, why is it that the boy himself is an advance upon the dog?
The plant, the fish, the dog, and the boy are all equally alive; but there is a difference
in the quality of their livingness about which no one can have any doubt, and no one would
hesitate to say that this difference is in the degree of intelligence. In whatever way we turn
the subject we shall always find that what we call the "livingness" of any individual life
is ultimately measured by its intelligence. It is the possession of greater intelligence that
places the animal higher in the scale of being than the plant, the man higher than the animal,
the intellectual man higher than the savage. The increased intelligence calls into activity
modes of motion of a higher order corresponding to itself. The higher the intelligence, the
more completely the mode of motion is under its control: and as we descend in the scale of
intelligence, the descent is marked by a corresponding increase in automatic motion not subject
to the control of a self-conscious intelligence. This descent is gradual from the expanded
self-recognition of the highest human personality to that lowest order of visible forms which
we speak of as "things," and from which self-recognition is entirely absent.

We see, then, that the livingness of Life consists in intelligence--in other words, in the
power of Thought; and we may therefore say that the distinctive quality of spirit is Thought,
and, as the opposite to this, we may say that the distinctive quality of matter is Form. We
cannot conceive of matter without form. Some form there must be, even though invisible to the
physical eye; for matter, to be matter at all, must occupy space, and to occupy any particular
space necessarily implies a corresponding form. For these reasons we may lay it down as a fundamental
proposition that the distinctive quality of spirit is Thought and the distinctive quality of
matter is Form. This is a radical distinction from which important consequences follow, and
should, therefore, be carefully noted by the student.

Form implies extension in space and also limitation within certain boundaries. Thought implies
neither. When, therefore, we think of Life as existing in any particular form we associate
it with the idea of extension in space, so that an elephant may be said to consist of a vastly
larger amount of living substance than a mouse. But if we think of Life as the fact of livingness
we do not associate it with any idea of extension, and we at once realize that the mouse is
quite as much alive as the elephant, notwithstanding the difference in size. The important
point of this distinction is that if we can conceive of anything as entirely devoid of the
element of extension in space, it must be present in its entire totality anywhere and everywhere--that
is to say, at every point of space simultaneously. The scientific definition of time is that
it is the period occupied by a body in passing from one given point in space to another, and,
therefore, according to this definition, when there is no space there can be no time; and hence
that conception of spirit which realizes it as devoid of the element of space must realize
it as being devoid of the element of time also; and we therefore find that the conception of
spirit as pure Thought, and not as concrete Form, is the conception of it as subsisting perfectly
independently of the elements of time and space. From this it follows that if the idea of anything
is conceived as existing on this level it can only represent that thing as being actually present
here and now. In this view of things nothing can be remote from us either in time or space:
either the idea is entirely dissipated or it exists as an actual present entity, and not as
something that shall be in the future, for where there is no sequence in time there can be
no future. Similarly where there is no space there can be no conception of anything as being
at a distance from us. When the elements of time and space are eliminated all our ideas of
things must necessarily be as subsisting in a universal here and an everlasting now. This is,
no doubt, a highly abstract conception, but I would ask the student to endeavour to grasp it
thoroughly, since it is of vital importance in the practical application of Mental Science,
as will appear further on.

The opposite conception is that of things expressing themselves through conditions of time
and space and thus establishing a variety of relations to other things, as of bulk, distance,
and direction, or of sequence in time. These two conceptions are respectively the conception
of the abstract and the concrete, of the unconditioned and the conditioned, of the absolute
and the relative. They are not opposed to each other in the sense of incompatibility, but are
each the complement of the other, and the only reality is in the combination of the two. The
error of the extreme idealist is in endeavouring to realize the absolute without the relative,
and the error of the extreme materialist is in endeavouring to realize the relative without
the absolute. On the one side the mistake is in trying to realize an inside without an outside,
and on the other in trying to realize an outside without an inside; both are necessary to the
formation of a substantial entity.

II.

THE HIGHER MODE OF INTELLIGENCE CONTROLS THE LOWER.

We have seen that the descent from personality, as we know it in ourselves, to matter, as we
know it under what we call inanimate forms, is a gradual descent in the scale of intelligence
from that mode of being which is able to realize its own will-power as a capacity for originating
new trains of causation to that mode of being which is incapable of recognizing itself at all.
The higher the grade of life, the higher the intelligence; from which it follows that the supreme
principle of Life must also be the ultimate principle of intelligence. This is clearly demonstrated
by the grand natural order of the universe. In the light of modern science the principle of
evolution is familiar to us all, and the accurate adjustment existing between all parts of
the cosmic scheme is too self-evident to need insisting upon. Every advance in science consists
in discovering new subtleties of connection in this magnificent universal order, which already
exists and only needs our recognition to bring it into practical use. If, then, the highest
work of the greatest minds consists in nothing else than the recognition of an already existing
order, there is no getting away from the conclusion that a paramount intelligence must be inherent
in the Life-Principle, which manifests itself as this order; and thus we see that there must
be a great cosmic intelligence underlying the totality of things.

The physical history of our planet shows us first an incandescent nebula dispersed over vast
infinitudes of space; later this condenses into a central sun surrounded by a family of glowing
planets hardly yet consolidated from the plastic primordial matter; then succeed untold millenniums
of slow geological formation; an earth peopled by the lowest forms of life, whether vegetable
or animal; from which crude beginnings a majestic, unceasing, unhurried, forward movement brings
things stage by stage to the condition in which we know them now. Looking at this steady progression
it is clear that, however we may conceive the nature of the evolutionary principle, it unerringly
provides for the continual advance of the race. But it does this by creating such numbers of
each kind that, after allowing a wide margin for all possible accidents to individuals, the
race shall still continue:--

    "So careful of the type it seems
    So careless of the single life."

In short, we may say that the cosmic intelligence works by a Law of Averages which allows a
wide margin of accident and failure to the individual.

But the progress towards higher intelligence is always in the direction of narrowing down this
margin of accident and taking the individual more and more out of the law of averages, and
substituting the law of individual selection. In ordinary scientific language this is the survival
of the fittest. The reproduction of fish is on a scale that would choke the sea with them if
every individual survived; but the margin of destruction is correspondingly enormous, and thus
the law of averages simply keeps up the normal proportion of the race. But at the other end
of the scale, reproduction is by no means thus enormously in excess of survival. True, there
is ample margin of accident and disease cutting off numbers of human beings before they have
gone through the average duration of life, but still it is on a very different scale from the
premature destruction of hundreds of thousands as against the survival of one. It may, therefore,
be taken as an established fact that in proportion as intelligence advances the individual
ceases to be subject to a mere law of averages and has a continually increasing power of controlling
the conditions of his own survival.

We see, therefore, that there is a marked distinction between the cosmic intelligence and the
individual intelligence, and that the factor which differentiates the latter from the former
is the presence of individual volition. Now the business of Mental Science is to ascertain
the relation of this individual power of volition to the great cosmic law which provides for
the maintenance and advancement of the race; and the point to be carefully noted is that the
power of individual volition is itself the outcome of the cosmic evolutionary principle at
the point where it reaches its highest level. The effort of Nature has always been upwards
from the time when only the lowest forms of life peopled the globe, and it has now culminated
in the production of a being with a mind capable of abstract reasoning and a brain fitted to
be the physical instrument of such a mind. At this stage the all-creating Life-principle reproduces
itself in a form capable of recognizing the working of the evolutionary law, and the unity
and continuity of purpose running through the whole progression until now indicates, beyond
a doubt, that the place of such a being in the universal scheme must be to introduce the operation
of that factor which, up to this point, has been, conspicuous by its absence--the factor, namely,
of intelligent individual volition. The evolution which has brought us up to this standpoint
has worked by a cosmic law of averages; it has been a process in which the individual himself
has not taken a conscious part. But because he is what he is, and leads the van of the evolutionary
procession, if man is to evolve further, it can now only be by his own conscious co-operation
with the law which has brought him up to the standpoint where he is able to realize that such
a law exists. His evolution in the future must be by conscious participation in the great work,
and this can only be effected by his own individual intelligence and effort. It is a process
of intelligent growth. No one else can grow for us: we must each grow for ourselves; and this
intelligent growth consists in our increasing recognition of the universal law, which has brought
us as far as we have yet got, and of our own individual relation to that law, based upon the
fact that we ourselves are the most advanced product of it. It is a great maxim that Nature
obeys us precisely in proportion as we first obey Nature. Let the electrician try to go counter
to the principle that electricity must always pass from a higher to a lower potential and he
will effect nothing; but let him submit in all things to this one fundamental law, and he can
make whatever particular applications of electrical power he will.

These considerations show us that what differentiates the higher from the lower degree of intelligence
is the recognition of its own self-hood, and the more intelligent that recognition is, the
greater will be the power. The lower degree of self-recognition is that which only realizes
itself as an entity separate from all other entities, as the ego distinguished from the non-ego.
But the higher degree of self-recognition is that which, realizing its own spiritual nature,
sees in all other forms, not so much the non-ego, or that which is not itself, as the alter-ego,
or that which is itself in a different mode of expression. Now, it is this higher degree of
self-recognition that is the power by which the Mental Scientist produces his results. For
this reason it is imperative that he should clearly understand the difference between Form
and Being; that the one is the mode of the relative and, the mark of subjection to conditions,
and that the other is the truth of the absolute and is that which controls conditions.

Now this higher recognition of self as an individualization of pure spirit must of necessity
control all modes of spirit which have not yet reached the same level of self-recognition.
These lower modes of spirit are in bondage to the law of their own being because they do not
know the law; and, therefore, the individual who has attained to this knowledge can control
them through that law. But to understand this we must inquire a little further into the nature
of spirit. I have already shown that the grand scale of adaptation and adjustment of all parts
of the cosmic scheme to one another exhibits the presence somewhere of a marvellous intelligence,
underlying the whole, and the question is, where is this intelligence to be found? Ultimately
we can only conceive of it as inherent in some primordial substance which is the root of all
those grosser modes of matter which are known to us, whether visible to the physical eye, or
necessarily inferred by science from their perceptible effects. It is that power which, in
every species and in every individual, becomes that which that species or individual is; and
thus we can only conceive of it as a self-forming intelligence inherent in the ultimate substance
of which each thing is a particular manifestation. That this primordial substance must be considered
as self-forming by an inherent intelligence abiding in itself becomes evident from the fact
that intelligence is the essential quality of spirit; and if we were to conceive of the primordial
substance as something apart from spirit, then we should have to postulate some other power
which is neither spirit nor matter, and originates both; but this is only putting the idea
of a self-evolving power a step further back and asserting the production of a lower grade
of undifferentiated spirit by a higher, which is both a purely gratuitous assumption and a
contradiction of any idea we can form of undifferentiated spirit at all. However far back,
therefore, we may relegate the original starting-point, we cannot avoid the conclusion that,
at that point, spirit contains the primary substance in itself, which brings us back to the
common statement that it made everything out of nothing. We thus find two factors to the making
of all things, Spirit and--Nothing; and the addition of Nothing to Spirit leaves only spirit:
x + 0 = x.

From these considerations we see that the ultimate foundation of every form of matter is spirit,
and hence that a universal intelligence subsists throughout Nature inherent in every one of
its manifestations. But this cryptic intelligence does not belong to the particular form excepting
in the measure in which it is physically fitted for its concentration into self-recognizing
individuality: it lies hidden in that primordial substance of which the visible form is a grosser
manifestation. This primordial substance is a philosophical necessity, and we can only picture
it to ourselves as something infinitely finer than the atoms which are themselves a philosophical
inference of physical science: still, for want of a better word, we may conveniently speak
of this primary intelligence inherent in the very substance of things as the Atomic Intelligence.
The term may, perhaps, be open to some objections, but it will serve our present purpose as
distinguishing this mode of spirit's intelligence from that of the opposite pole, or Individual
Intelligence. This distinction should be carefully noted because it is by the response of the
atomic intelligence to the individual intelligence that thought-power is able to produce results
on the material plane, as in the cure of disease by mental treatment, and the like. Intelligence
manifests itself by responsiveness, and the whole action of the cosmic mind in bringing the
evolutionary process from its first beginnings up to its present human stage is nothing else
but a continual intelligent response to the demand which each stage in the progress has made
for an adjustment between itself and its environment. Since, then, we have recognized the presence
of a universal intelligence permeating all things, we must also recognize a corresponding responsiveness
hidden deep down in their nature and ready to be called into action when appealed to. All mental
treatment depends on this responsiveness of spirit in its lower degrees to higher degrees of
itself. It is here that the difference between the mental scientist and the uninstructed person
comes in; the former knows of this responsiveness and makes use of it, and the latter cannot
use it because he does not know it.

III

THE UNITY OF THE SPIRIT.

We have now paved the way for understanding what is meant by "the unity of the spirit." In
the first conception of spirit as the underlying origin of all things we see a universal substance
which, at this stage, is not differentiated into any specific forms. This is not a question
of some bygone time, but subsists at every moment of all time in the innermost nature of all
being; and when we see this, we see that the division between one specific form and another
has below it a deep essential unity, which acts as the supporter of all the several forms of
individuality arising out of it. And as our thought penetrates deeper into the nature of this
all-producing spiritual substance we see that it cannot be limited to any one portion of space,
but must be limitless as space itself, and that the idea of any portion of space where it is
not is inconceivable. It is one of those intuitive perceptions from which the human mind can
never get away that this primordial, all-generating living spirit must be commensurate with
infinitude, and we can therefore never think of it otherwise than as universal or infinite.
Now it is a mathematical truth that the infinite must be a unity. You cannot have two infinites,
for then neither would be infinite, each would be limited by the other, nor can you split the
infinite up into fractions. The infinite is mathematically essential unity. This is a point
on which too much stress cannot be laid, for there follow from it the most important consequences.
Unity, as such, can be neither multiplied nor divided, for either operation destroys the unity.
By multiplying, we produce a plurality of units of the same scale as the original; and by dividing,
we produce a plurality of units of a smaller scale; and a plurality of units is not unity but
multiplicity. Therefore if we would penetrate below the outward nature of the individual to
that innermost principle of his being from which his individuality takes its rise, we can do
so only by passing beyond the conception of individual existence into that of the unity of
universal being. This may appear to be a merely philosophical abstraction, but the student
who would produce practical results must realize that these abstract generalizations are the
foundation of the practical work he is going to do.

