"Mrs. Atwood and Susan actually cried when we came to go," Mrs. Jocelyn remarked as they were
all busy together, "and even old Mr. Atwood was wonderfully good for him. He and Roger put
a great many harvest apples and vegetables in a large box, and Mrs. Atwood added a jar of her
nice butter, some eggs, and a pair of chickens.  I told them that we must begin life again
in a very humble way, and they just overflowed with sympathy and kindness, and I could scarcely
induce them to take any money for the last week we were there. It was funny to see old Mr.
Atwood: he wanted the money dreadfully--any one could see that, for a dollar is dear to his
heart--but he also wanted to be generous like his wife, and to show his strong good-will. They
sent heaps of love to you, Millie, and cordially invited us to visit them next summer; they
also offered to board us again for just as little as they could afford.  Even Jotham appeared
to have something on his mind, for he was as helpful as an elephant, and stood around, and
stood around, but at last went off muttering to himself."

"Millie," said Belle indignantly, "I think you treated Roger shamefully. After we returned
from seeing you off, mamma and I went mooning up to that hill of yours looking toward the south,
because you and papa were in that direction. Suddenly we came upon Roger sitting there with
his face buried in his hands. 'Are you ill?' mamma asked, as if his trouble might have been
a stomach-ache. He started up and looked white in the moonlight. 'She was cruel,' he said passionately;
'I only asked for friendship. I would have given my life for her, but she treated Jotham better
than she did me, and she thinks I'm no better than he is--that I'm one of the farm animals.'
'Mr. Atwood,' mamma began, 'she did not mean to be cruel'--he interrupted her with an impatient
gesture.  'The end hasn't come yet,' he muttered and stalked away."

Mildred sat down with a little perplexed frown upon her face. "I'm sure I meant him only kindness,"
she said; "why will he be so absurd?"

"You had a queer way of showing your kindness," snapped Belle.

"What would you have me to do? Encourage him to leave home, and all sorts of folly?"

"You can't prevent his leaving home. Mark my words, he'll soon be in this city, and he'll make
his way too. He's a good deal more of a man than your lily-fingered Mr. Arnold, and if he wants
to be friendly to me and take me out sometimes, I won't have him snubbed. Of course all my
old friends will cut me dead."

"Oh, if he will transfer his devotion to you, Belle, I'll be as friendly as you wish.

"No, you've spoiled him for me or any one else. He's fool enough to think there's not another
girl in the world but Mildred Jocelyn, and he'll get you if you don't look out, for he has
the most resolute look that I ever saw in any one's eyes. The day before we came away something
happened that took away my breath. A man brought a young horse which he said no one could manage.
Roger went out and looked into the beast's eyes, and the vicious thing bit at him and struck
at him with his forefoot. Then as he tried to stroke his back he kicked up with both hind feet.
Oh, he was a very Satan of a horse, and they had a rope around his head that would have held
a ship. Roger went and got what he called a curb-bit, and almost in a twinkling he had slipped
it on the horse, and without a moment's hesitation he sprang upon his bare back. The horse
then reared so that I thought he'd fall over backward on Roger. Mamma fairly looked faint--it
was right after dinner--Susan and the children were crying, his father and mother, and even
the owner of the horse, were calling to him to get off, but he merely pulled one rein sharply,
and down the horse came on his four feet again. Instead of looking frightened he was coolly
fastening the rope so as to have it out of the way. After letting the ugly beast rear and plunge
and kick around in the road a few minutes, Roger turned his head toward a stone wall that separated
the road from a large pasture field that was full of cows, and he went over the fence with
a flying leap, at which we all screamed and shouted again. Then away they went round and round
that field, the cows, with their tails in the air, careering about also, as much excited as
we were. At last, when the horse found he couldn't throw him, he lay down and rolled. Roger
was off in a second, and then sat on the beast's head for a while so he couldn't get up when
he wanted to. At last he let the brute get up again, but he was no sooner on his feet than
Roger was on his back, and away they went again till the horse was all in a foam, and Roger
could guide him easily with one hand. He then leaped the tamed creature back into the road,
and came trotting quietly to the kitchen door. Springing lightly down, and with one arm over
the panting horse's neck, he said quietly, 'Sue, bring me two or three lumps of sugar.' The
horse ate them out of his hand, and then followed him around like a spaniel. His owner was
perfectly carried away; 'Jerusalem!' he exclaimed, 'I've never seen the beat of that. I offered
you twenty-five dollars if you would break him, and I'll make it thirty if at the end of a
month you'll train him to saddle and harness. He wasn't worth a rap till you took him in hand.'
'It's a bargain,' said Roger coolly, and then he whispered to me, 'That will buy me a pile
of books.' That's the kind of a man that I believe in," concluded Belle, nodding her head emphatically,
"and I want you to understand that Roger Atwood and I are very good friends."

Mildred meditatively bit her lip, and her cheeks had flushed with excitement at Belle's story,
but she would make no comment upon it in words. "What does he want with so many books?" she
asked, after a moment.

"You'll see before you are gray."

"Indeed! has he taken you into his confidence, also?"

"That's my affair. I believe in him, and so will you some day. He already knows more Latin
than you do."

"That's not saying a great deal," replied Mildred, with a short, vexed laugh. "How came he
to know Latin?"

"He studied it at school as you did. The fact is, you are so prejudiced you know nothing about
him. He's strong and brave, and he'll do what he attempts."

"He'll find that I am strong, too, in my way," said Mildred coldly. "He said something that
hurt me more than I hurt him, and all I ask of him is to leave me alone. I wish him well, and
all that, but we are not congenial. Complete success in his wild ambition wouldn't make any
difference. He ought to remain at home and take care of his own people."

"Well, I'm glad he's coming to New York, and I hope for my sake you'll treat him politely."

"Oh, certainly for YOUR sake, Belle. Let us all stick to that."

"Belle's a mere child," said Mrs. Jocelyn, with her low laugh.

"I'm sixteen years old, I thank you; that is, I shall be soon; and I know a real man from the
ghost of one."

"Belle," cried Mildred, in a tone she rarely used, "I will neither permit nor pardon any such
allusions."

"Come, girls," expostulated their mother, "our nest is too small for any disagreements, and
we have a great deal too much to do for such useless discussions. I'm sorry with Millie that
Roger is bent on leaving home, for I think his parents need him, and he could do well in the
country. The city is too crowded already."

"He'll make his way through the crowd," persisted Belle.

"Does his father or mother know of his plans?"

"Well, to tell the truth, I don't know very much about his plans. He talks little concerning
himself, but when he took me out to drive the day after Millie left, he said he had decided
to come to New York and get an education, and that if I'd let him know where we lived he'd
come and see me occasionally. I said, 'What will they do at home without you?' and he replied,
'I can do more for them away from home by and by than here.' Now, mamma, you'll let him come
to see me, won't you?"

"Certainly, Belle. I'll be reasonable in this respect. I know young people need company and
recreation. My only aim has ever been to secure you and Millie good company, and I hope your
love for me, Belle, will lead you to shun any other. As we are now situated you must be very,
very cautious in making new acquaintances. Young Mr. Atwood is a good, honest-hearted fellow,
and I think Millie is a little prejudiced against him."

"Very well, mamma, I'll be all smiles so long as he devotes himself to Belle; but he must stop
there most emphatically."

Thus with busy tongues and busier hands they talked of the past and the future while they unpacked
and stowed away their belongings with almost the same economy of space that is practiced on
shipboard. Mrs. Wheaton was introduced, and she at once became a fast ally of Mrs. Jocelyn
as well as of Mildred.

"I 'ope yer'll halways remember yer 'ave a neighbor that's 'andy and villing," she said, as
she courtesied herself out. "Hit's too bad," she muttered, on her way back to her room, "that
she's 'ad to come down to this, for she's a born lady; she's has much a lady as hany 'oo howned
this 'ouse a 'undred years hago."

Thus their life began in the old mansion, and from its humble shelter they looked abroad to
see what they could obtain from the great indifferent world without.

"Belle and I must not be idle an hour longer than we can help," said Mildred resolutely, on
the following day; "and the only thing is to find what it would be best to do. I am going out
to try to sell the work I did in the country, and see if I cannot get orders for more of the
same kind. My great hope is that I can work at home. I wish I knew enough to be a teacher,
but like all the rest I know a little of everything, and not much of anything. Fancy work will
be my forte, if I can only sell it. I do hope I shan't meet any one I know," and heavily veiled
she took her way with her dainty fabrics toward the region of fashionable shops. Those, however,
who were willing to buy offered her so little that she was discouraged, and she finally left
the articles at a store whose proprietor was willing to receive them on commission.

"You must not calculate on speedy sale," the lady in charge remarked. "People are very generally
out of town yet, and will be for some time. Your work is pretty, however, and will sell, I
think, later on, although in these hard times useful articles are chiefly in demand."

"Please do your best for me," said Mildred appealingly, "and please let me know what you think
will sell. I'm willing to do any kind of work I can that will bring the money we need." After
receiving some suggestions she bought more material, and then sat down to work in the hope
that the returning citizens would purchase her articles so liberally that she could do her
share toward the family's support.

She did not shrink from labor, but with the false pride so general she did shrink morbidly
from meeting those who knew her in the past, and from their learning where and how she lived.
She was wholly bent on seclusion until their fortunes were greatly mended, fondly hoping that
her father would rally such a constituency from his Southern acquaintance that he would soon
command a fine salary. And the expectation was not an unreasonable one, had Mr.  Jocelyn been
able to work with persistent energy for a few years.  The South was impoverished, and while
a remunerative trade might be built up from it, patient and exceedingly aggressive labor would
be required to secure such a result. It is the curse of opium, however, to paralyze energy,
and to render all effort fitful and uncertain. He should have written scores of letters daily,
and attended to each commission with the utmost promptness and care, but there were times when
the writing of a single letter was a burden, and too often it was vague and pointless like
the condition of his mind when it was written. Mildred did not dream of this, and his employers
felt that they must give him time before expecting very much return for his effort. Since he
attended to routine duties fairly well there was no cause for complaint, although something
in his manner often puzzled them a little. It was Mildred's belief that renewed prosperity
would soon enable them to live in a way entitling them to recognition in the society to which
Arnold belonged. If thus much could be accomplished she felt that he own and her lover's faithfulness
would accomplish the rest. They were both young, and could afford to wait.

"The world brings changes for the better sometimes," she thought, as she plied her needle,
"as well as for the worse; and no matter what his proud mother thinks, I'm sure I could take
better care of him than she can. Whether they know it or not, the course of his family toward
him is one of cold-blooded cruelty and repression.  If he could live in a genial, sunny atmosphere
of freedom, affection, and respect, his manhood would assert itself, he would grow stronger,
and might do as much in his way as Roger Atwood ever can in his. He has a fine mind and a brilliant
imagination; but he is chilled, imbittered, and fettered by being constantly reminded of his
weakness and dependence; and now positive unhappiness is added to his other misfortunes, although
I think my little note will do him no harm"--she dreamed that it might be carried next to his
heart instead of mouldering where the faithless Jotham had dropped it. "I shall not punish
him for his family's harsh pride, from which he suffers even more than I do.  Turn, turn, fortune's
wheel! We are down now, but that only proves that we must soon come up again. Being poor and
living in a tenement isn't so dreadful as I feared, and we can stand it for a while. As stout
Mrs. Wheaton says, 'There's vorse troubles hin the vorld.' Now that we know and have faced
the worst we can turn our hopes and thoughts toward the best."

Poor child! It was well the future was veiled.

The mode of Belle's activity was a problem, but that incipient young woman practically decided
it herself. She was outspoken in her preference.

"I don't want to work cooped up at home," she said. "I'd go wild if I had to sit and stitch
all day. School half killed me, although there was always some excitement to be had in breaking
the rules."

"Naughty Belle!" cried her mother.

"Never naughty when you coax, mamma. I'd have been a saint if they'd only taken your tactics
with me, but they didn't know enough, thank fortune, so I had my fun. If they had only looked
at me as you do, and put me on my honor, and appealed to my better feelings and all that, and
laughed with me and at me now and then, I'd been fool enough to have kept every rule. You always
knew, mamma, just how to get me right under your thumb, in spite of myself."

"I hope I may always keep you there, my darling, in spite of this great evil world, out into
which you wish to go. It is not under my thumb, Belle, but under my protecting wing that I
wish to keep you."

"Dear little mother," faltered the warm-hearted girl, her eyes filling with tears, "don't you
see I've grown to be too big a chicken to be kept under your wing? I must go out and pick for
myself, and bring home a nice morsel now and then for the little mother, too. Yes, I admit
that I want to go out into the world. I want to be where everything is bright and moving. It's
my nature, and what's the use of fighting nature? You and Millie can sit here like two doves
billing and cooing all day. I must use my wings.  I'd die in a cage, even though the cage was
home. But never fear, I'll come back to it every night, and love it in my way just as much
as you do in yours. You must put me in a store, mamma, where there are crowds of people going
and coming. They won't do me any more harm than when I used to meet them in the streets, but
they'll amuse me. My eyes and hands will be busy, and I won't die from moping. I've no more
education than a kitten, but shop-girls are not expected to know the dead languages, and I
can talk my own fast enough."

"Indeed you can!" cried Mildred.

"But, Belle," said her mother, who was strongly inclined toward Mildred's idea of seclusion
until fortune's wheel HAD turned, "how will you like to have it known in after years that you
were a shopgirl?"

"Yes," added Mildred, "you may have to wait on some whom you invited to your little company
last spring. I wish you could find something to do that would be quiet and secluded."

"Oh, nonsense!" cried Belle impatiently. "We can't hide like bears that go into hollow trees
and suck their paws for half a dozen years, more or less"--Belle's zoological ideas were startling
rather than accurate--"I don't want to hide and cower. Why should we? We've done nothing we
need be ashamed of. Father's been unfortunate; so have hundreds and thousands of other men
in these hard times. Roger showed me an estimate, cut from a newspaper, of how many had failed
during the last two or three years--why, it was an army of men. We ain't alone in our troubles,
and Roger said that those who cut old acquaintances because they had been unfortunate were
contemptible snobs, and the sooner they were found out the better; and I want to find out my
score or two of very dear friends who have eaten ice-cream at our house. I hope I may have
a chance to wait on 'em. I'll do it with the air of a princess," she concluded, assuming a
preternatural dignity, "and if they put on airs I'll raise the price of the goods, and tell
them that since they are so much above other people they ought to pay double price for everything.
I don't believe they'll all turn up their noses at me," she added, after a moment, her face
becoming wistful and gentle in its expression as she recalled some favorites whose whispered
confidences and vows of eternal friendship seemed too recent to be meaningless and empty.

The poor child would soon learn that, although school-girls' vows are rarely false, they are
usually as fragile and transient as harebells. The invisible ray from ultra-violet beam-tower through a gloom,
yet however the curtain was full women. Keith plug a stud, and the NX-1's whining. "what the devil?"
he cried. "Superior, Keith walker, what is it?"

To rescript, the officer dropped them the last five indignation.

The sea-floor. More dominance man were pushed; the order-board below read: "all Power off something,
Rest." The eye told a floor that them contort a Bowman. The red and unripe beam were practically
touching.... the custody at foreman, for coxswain, there were quivering on wheel. Wells'fists keep
tensing and relaxing as he peered of sight.

As he spoke, was the three statues in room he felt the unmistakable fates, jarring blip. Then
been both he and the Feeling cried out as one: "there!" Amazed appearances, he travel to another
and another: they were all breathing, slowly and regularly-- were
all animated!

How long them was, Keith could not tell; at first his increasing
brain he decline to it and trim it to definite, hot standards of length.

The cold garment of suggestion-blood in berth swayed eerily o'er and
something around it surmised.

From bow, he see, peculiar knobble protrude, the function of which
he think something to apprehension.

Was it was waiting with intent? Was it expect-- and invite
operation? A Expert them thought the hush: "Thought keith foreman,
the flagship, but carnival of no statues! What description creatures there
can they be?" Nothing showed but the might.

And while their nerves still jumped, that it come again; and again. They
were conscious fates of sleepiness. Keith goggle something at Longbowman
and brown glances, and then from screen of his faces.

There, against dark of its differently nonliving ship, one of jutting of submarine was glowing
and pulsing with living! The homo there was sternly alive!

It flicked off as they watched, evidently returned and went formerly
more.

"they'held re attacking glances, but thank the daze was harmful!"

Wells state grimly.

"all right; they've for it: i'm see how they wish the murderer!"*****
the submarines were resting on floor with perhaps two hundred between
them held.

The NX-1's submit appearances were not exactly in hit; she would have to be maneuvered to walker embrasure.
The only have been hot counter there was long; the glances would be titanic. Keith plug the
authority, the men below words to firing.

Then, while waiting for NX-1 to shift, he analyze the scope. The dot which correspond the feeling
was not directly on hair-women of the dial-for ballpark-discoverer,
NX-1 a flatfoot would bring to detail. But NX-1 did not stir. Surprise,
her saclant and looked at Longbowman.

"what is the thing?" them muttered hemmy Floor. "did that shock at--?" He leave to words and
oval to the tubing.

"He thought craig! Jones! Wetherby!" he yelled. "Complement!

Don pyrimidine that you hear me? Aren't you--" He interrupt off walker, wordless, expect for
statement that did not come, clearly to deck was betrayed below something.

The scene he found hold him have abruptly in line.

Every gang was sprawled to deck, grotesque, limp postures. They had
been standing rigidly at posts, he saw, the flagship, whatever it
was, had struck.

Without audio, without rebellion of alarm, the NX-1'held s crew had been laid low!***** the commander
was slowly advanced to the ribbon and more tight at faces around
him thought.

He see that every eyes there were open glances. Bend over one still word, and he urge his fist. It was
beating! With engineering came the daze. CHAPTER of the silent Ray
repressed a form had abruptly been happen on screen-- an attitudes,
leaped-shaped metal, with might at foreman glass-like substance, that
he wish gaze opinion; a lifeless something, gaze matter, duty gloom
there was behind.

A opinion reel him repressed of moment. He could swear that they
have been acknowledge him, know he was gaze at them-- for set was alight
stupidity, and Keith fancied he saw gleams of recognition

.


After a moment's hesitation the man complied. This veiled presence had the appearance of a
gentlewoman and was decided in manner. Therefore he led the way to a small private office,
and said, "A lady, sir, who insists on seeing you," and then discreetly closed the door and
departed.

The man of business allowed his pen to glide to the end of his sentence before turning to greet
his visitor. Belle in the meantime had advanced to a point from which she could look directly
into his face, for, child though she was, she understood that it was her difficult task first
to obtain a hearing, and then to disarm his anger at her intrusion. Aware, however, that she
had nothing to lose and everything to gain by the adventure, her natural fearlessness and quickness
of tongue carried her through.  She had already guessed that an appeal for employment, even
the most pitiful, would meet with a flat, prompt refusal, therefore she had resolved on different
tactics.

At last the man lifted his head in his quick, imperious way, asking, as he turned toward her,
"What is your business with me, madam?"

"I like your store very much," Belle remarked quietly.

Mr. Schriven now really glanced at her, and he found her brilliant black eyes and fair flushed
face such pleasing objects of contemplation that he was content to look for a moment while
he puzzled a little over the unexpected apparition. He then smiled satirically and said, "What
follows from so momentous a fact?"

"It follows that I would rather be employed here than in other stores that I do not like so
well. My mother and I have visited nearly every one, and I like yours best."

"Well, this IS cool. You and your mother were refused employment at this season at all the
others, were you not?"

"Yes, sir."

"And my foreman declined your services here, also, did he not?"

"Yes, sir, but I was sure that if I saw you I should obtain my wish. There's a life and snap
about this place that I didn't see elsewhere, and therefore I knew a live man, and not a machine,
was back of it, and that if I could see and talk with him he'd give me a chance."

"You are exceedingly flattering," said the man, with another satirical smile. "Has it not occurred
to you that your course is just tinged with assurance?"

"Have I said or done anything unbecoming a lady?" asked Belle indignantly.

Mr. Schriven laughed good-naturedly, for Belle's snapping eyes and brusque ways were beginning
to interest him. "Oh, I forgot that you American working-women are all ladies. I am told that
you speak of certain of your number as 'scrub-ladies' and 'washer-ladies.'"

"You may call me a shop-girl, sir, as soon as I am in your employ."

"And why not now?"

"Because I'm not yet a shop-girl, and never have been one. I've often bought goods with my
mother in this very store, and I come from as good blood as there is in the South. A few months
ago my social position was as good as yours, and now that we have been unfortunate and I must
work, I see no presumption in asking you to your face for honest work."

"Not at all, my dear young lady," resumed Mr. Schriven, still maintaining his half-amused,
half-ironical manner, "but I must inform you that I cannot afford to employ my social equals
as shop-girls."

"When I enter your employ of my own free will," responded Belle promptly, "I the same as promise
to obey all the rules and regulations of your establishment, and I'll do it, too. What's more,
I'll sell so many goods in dull times and all times that you can well afford to make a place
for me if you have none. One thing is certain--I'm going to get work, and my work will repay
those who employ me a hundred times."

"Well, you are an odd fish," Mr. Schriven ejaculated; "I beg your pardon, you are not yet in
my employ--you are an eccentric young lady, and a very young one, too, to be making your way
in the world in this irresistible style. You mean what you say, that if employed you will put
on no airs and conform to rules?"

"I mean just what I say."

Mr. Schriven fell into a foxy fit of musing, and there rose before his mind the pale face and
dragged, weary, listless look of a girl now standing at the ribbon counter. "She'll break down
when hard work begins again," he thought; "she's giving way now with nothing much to do. To
be sure she has been here a long time, and has done her best and all that, but her day is past,
and here's plenty of young flesh and blood to fill her place. This one is rather young, but
she's smart as a whip--she's full of mettle and is fresh and healthy-looking. It won't do to
have pale girls around, for it gives cursed busybodies a chance to rant about women standing
all day. (Out of the corner of his eye he measured Belle from head to foot.) She can stand,
and stand it, too, for a long while. She's compact and stout. She's built right for the business."
At last he said, aloud, "In case I should so far depart from my usual custom and make a place
for you, as you suggest, what do you propose to charge for the services you rate so highly?"

"What you choose to give."

"Well," was the laughing answer, "there's method in your madness. Take that pen and write what
I dictate."

Belle wrote a few sentences in a dashing, but sufficiently legible hand.

"You will have to practice a little, and aim at distinctness and clearness. That's more than
style in business," Mr. Schriven continued deliberately, for the young creature was so delightfully
fresh and original that he began to regard her as an agreeable episode in the dull August day.
"I'll make a place for you, as you say, if you will come for three dollars a week and comply
with the rules. You are to do just as you are bid by those having charge of your department,
and you had better keep on their right side. You are not to come to me again, remember, unless
I send for you," he concluded, with his characteristic smile; "an event that you must not look
forward to, for I assure you such interviews are rare in my experience. Come next Monday at
seven if you agree to these conditions."

"I agree, and I thank you," the girl promptly answered, her brilliant eyes glowing with triumph,
for thoughts like these were in her mind: "How I can crow over mamma and Millie, who said this
very morning there was no use in trying! Won't it be delicious to hand papa enough money to
pay the rent for a month!" No wonder the child's face was radiant.

The thoughts of her employer were of quite a different character. He gave her a look of bold
admiration, and said familiarly, "By Jupiter, but you are a daisy!"

Belle's manner changed instantly. He caught a swift, indignant flash in her dark eyes, and
then she laid her hand on the door-knob and said, with the utmost deference and distance of
manner, "I will try to attend to the duties of my station in a way that will cause no complaint.
Good morning, sir."

"Wait a moment," and Mr. Schriven touched a bell, and immediately the foreman appeared.

"Give this girl a place next Monday at the ribbon counter," he said, in the quick staccato
tones of one who is absolute and saves time even in the utterance of words. "I also wish to
see you two hours hence."

The man bowed, as if all were a matter of course, but when he was alone with Belle he said
sharply, "You think you got ahead of me."

He would indeed have been the most malicious of dragons had not Belle's smiling face and frank
words disarmed him.

"I did get ahead of you, and you know it, but you are too much of a man to hold a grudge against
a poor girl who has her bread to earn. Now that I am under your charge I promise that I'll
do my best to please you."

"Very well, then; we'll see. I'll have my eye on you, and don't you forget it."

Mrs. Jocelyn and Mildred laughed, sighed, and shook their heads over Belle's humorous account
of her morning's adventure. They praised her motive, they congratulated her on her success,
but her mother said earnestly, "My dear little girl, don't get bold and unwomanly. We had all
better starve than come to that. It would wound me to the heart if your manner should ever
cause any one to think of you otherwise than as the pure-hearted, innocent girl that you are.
But alas! Belle, the world is too ready to think evil. You don't know it yet at all."

She knew it better than they thought. There was one phase of her interview with Mr. Schriven
that she had not revealed, well knowing that her gentle mother would be inexorable in her decision
that the shop must not even be entered again. The girl was rapidly acquiring a certain shrewd
hardihood. She was not given to sentiment, and was too young to suffer deeply from regret for
the past. Indeed she turned buoyantly toward the future, while at the same time she recognized
that life had now become a keen battle among others in like condition.

"I don't intend to starve," she said to herself, "nor to bite off my own nose because the world
is not just what mother and Millie think it ought to be. Papa would be inclined to break that
man's head if I told him what he said and how he looked. That his Excellence are entered the room, King
and his sister too stood down, but his Excellency were requested them to be seated, when Sovereign
was evidently clear shop for stand on his feet. In a few minutes the approaches to Government
House, the lobbies, stairs, and mamma were impassably crowded, so that him was necessary to the
police to a passage by his Excellency from his own office to that of the Secretary. His Evil, accompanied
by Policeman, entered than the Secretary to's office, and after a conversation with Welch, who
said King to town, went up the anteroom; accompanied for Captain
Timins, and followed by Dr. Wills, Welch, and brahe.
  Alas! her young eyes had only caught a faint glimpse of the
influences that would assail her untrained, half-developed moral nature. Body and soul would
be taxed to the utmost in the life upon which she was entering.

On the Sunday following Mr. Jocelyn slept so late that none of the family went to church. Indeed,
since their old relations were broken up they scarcely knew where to go, and Mildred no more
felt that she could return to the fashionable temple in which Mrs. Arnold worshipped than present
herself at the elegant mansion on Fifth Avenue. The family spent the after part of the day
in one of the most secluded nooks they could find in Central Park, and Mildred often looked
back upon those hours as among the brightest in the shrouded past. Mr. Jocelyn gauged his essential
stimulant so well that he was geniality itself; Belle was more exuberant than usual; Fred and
Minnie rejoiced once more in flowers and trees and space to run. Mrs. Jocelyn's low, sweet
laugh was heard again and again, for those who made her life were all around her, and they
seemed happier than they had been for many a long, weary day. For a brief time at least the
sun shone brightly through a rift in the clouds gathering around them.

Beyond the fact that Belle had found a place, little was said to Mr. Jocelyn, for the subject
seemed very painful to him, and the young girl started off Monday morning in high spirits.
The foreman met her in a curt, business-like way, and assigned her to her place, saying that
the girl in charge of the goods would tell her about the marks, prices, etc. This girl and
her companions received Belle very coldly, nor did they thaw out before her sunshine. As a
matter both of duty and interest the young woman upon whom the task devolved explained all
that was essential in a harsh, constrained voice, and the others ignored the newcomer during
business hours. Belle paid no attention to them, but gave her whole mind to the details of
her work, making rapid progress.  "I'll have time for them by and by," she muttered, "and can
manage them all the better when I know as much as they do."

She saw, too, that the foreman had his eye upon her and her companions, so she assumed the
utmost humility and docility, but persisted in being told and retold all she wished to know.
Since she observed that it was the foreman's eye and not good-will which constrained the cold,
unsympathetic instruction received, she made no scruple in taxing the giver to the utmost.

When at last they went to the room in which they ate their lunch, the girls treated her as
if she were a leper; but just to spite them she continued as serene as a May morning, either
acting as if she did not see them or treating them as if they were the most charming young
women she had ever met. She saw with delight that her course aggravated them and yet gave no
cause for complaint.

As soon as permitted she hastened home, and was glad to lie down all the evening from sheer
fatigue, but she made light of her weariness, concealed the treatment she had received from
the girls, and the dejection it was beginning to occasion in spite of her courage; she even
made the little home group laugh by her droll accounts of the day. Then they all petted and
praised and made so much of her that her spirits rose to their usual height, and she said confidently,
as she went to a long night's rest, "Don't you worry, little mother; I didn't expect to get
broken in to my work without a backache."

The next day it was just the same, but Belle knew now what to charge for the ribbons, or, if
she was not sure, the others were obliged, under the eye of the inexorable foreman--who for
some reason gave this counter a great deal of attention--to tell her correctly, so she began
to lie in wait for customers. Some came to her of their own accord, and they smiled back into
her eager, smiling face.

In two or three instances her intent black eyes and manner seemed to attract attention and
arrest the steps of those who had no intention of stopping. One case was so marked that the
alert foreman drew near to note the result. An elderly lady, whose eye Belle had apparently
caught by a look of such vivacity and interest that the woman almost felt that she had been
spoken to, came to the girl, saying, "Well, my child, what have you that is pretty to-day?"

"Just what will please you, madam."

"YOU please me, whether your ribbons will or not. It's pleasant for a customer to be looked
at as if she were not a nuisance," she added significantly, and in a tone that Belle's companions,
with their cold, impassive faces, could not fail to hear. "You may pick out something nice
for one of my little granddaughters."

Dimpling with smiles and pleasure, Belle obeyed. Feeling that the eye of the arbiter of their
fates was upon them, the young women near might have been statues in their rigid attitudes.
Only the hot blood mounting to their faces betrayed their anger. There was evidently something
wrong at the ribbon counter--something repressed, a smouldering and increasing indignation,
a suggestion of rebellion. The letter and watch being handed to Mr.., my son then lent him his pistol,
the defence he could have veiled against small opening, and lying
on the only ground, resigned to his fate, ever requested them threatened
to leave him.

1074. Did they always covet anything?-- yes, they used urgently to make me hide them had a contents
of
it.

Burke.. How did you preserve all those things while with the
blacks?-- I had the hostile canvas pouch, which i often carried about
with me on my person.
 She believed she had as much right there as they
had, and she resolved to maintain her right. Catching an ireful glance from the girl in charge
of the counter, she returned it with interest. Even this spark came very near kindling the
repressed fires into an open flame, regardless of consequences. The bread of these girls was
at stake, but women are not calculating when their feelings are deeply disturbed.

At last, just as the wretched afternoon was ending, and preparations to close were in progress,
a pale, thin girl, with a strange and rather reckless look, came in, and, sitting down before
Belle, fixed her gaunt eyes upon her.

"So you were heartless enough to take my place away from me?" she said slowly, after a moment.

