Miners used to work by candlelight. Every one knew how dangerous this was; but no one found
any better way until, about a hundred years ago, Sir Humphry Davy noticed something which other
people had not observed. He discovered that flame would not pass through fine wire gauze, and
he made a safety lamp in which a little oil lamp was placed in a round funnel of wire gauze.
The light, but not the flame, would pass through it; and all safety lamps that burn oil have
been made on this principle. The electric lamp, however, is now in general use. The miner wears
it on his cap, and between his shoulders he carries a small, light storage battery. Even with
safety lamps, however, there are sometimes explosions. The only way to make a mine at all safe
from dangerous gases is to keep it full of fresh, pure air. There is no wind to blow through
the chambers and passages, and therefore air has to be forced in. One way is to keep a large
fire at the bottom of the air shaft. If you stand on a stepladder, you will feel that the top
of the room is much warmer than the floor. This is because hot air rises; and in a mine, the
hot air over the fire rises and sucks the foul air and gas out of the mine, and fresh air rushes
in to take its place. Another way is by a "fan," a machine that forces fresh air into the mine.

So it is that by hard work and much danger we get coal for burning. Now, coal is dirty and
heavy. A coal fire is hard to kindle and hard to put out, and the ashes are decidedly disagreeable
to handle. And after all, we do not really burn the coal itself, but only the gas from it which
results from the union of carbon and oxygen. In some places natural gas, as it is called, which
comes directly from some storehouse in the ground, is used in stoves and furnaces and fireplaces
for both heating and cooking; and perhaps before long gas will be manufactured so cheaply and
can be used so safely and comfortably that we shall not have to burn coal at all, but can use
gas for all purposes--unless electricity should take its place.

II

DOWN IN THE QUARRIES

When walking in the country one day I came to a beautiful pond by the side of the road. The
water was almost as clear as air, and as I looked down into it, I could see that the bottom
was made of granite. The farther shores were cliffs of clean granite thirty or forty feet high
and coming down to the water's edge. The marks of tools could be seen on them, showing where
blocks of stone had evidently been split off. I picked up a piece of the rock and examined
it closely. It proved to be made up of three kinds of material. First, there were tiny sparkling
bits of mica. In some places there are mica mines yielding big sheets of this curious mineral
which is used in the doors of stoves and the little windows of automobile curtains. With the
point of a knife the bits in my piece of granite could be split into tiny sheets as thin as
paper. The second material was quartz. This was grayish-white and looked somewhat like glass.
The third material was feldspar. This, too, was whitish, but one or two sides of each bit were
flat, as if they had not been broken, but split. This is the most common kind of granite. There
are many varieties. Some of them are almost white, some dark gray, others pale pink, and yet
others deep red. It is found in more than half the States of the Union.

This quarry had been given up and allowed to fill with water; but it was a granite country,
and farther down the road there was another, where scores of men were hard at work. This second
quarry was part-way up a hill; or rather, it was a hill of granite which men were digging out
and carrying away. When they began to open the quarry, much of the rock was covered with dirt
and loose stones, and even the granite that showed aboveground was worn and broken and stained.
This is called "trap rock." The easiest way to get rid of it is to blast with dynamite and
then carry away the dirt and fragments. Next comes the getting out of great masses of rock
to use, some of them perhaps long enough to make the pillars of a large building.

Now, granite is a hard stone, but there is no special difficulty in cutting it if you know
how. In the old days, when people wished to split a big boulder, they sometimes built a fire
beside it, and when it was well heated, they dropped a heavy iron ball upon it. King's Chapel
in Boston was built of stone broken in this way. To break from a cliff, however, a block of
granite big enough to make a long pillar is a different matter, and this is what the men were
doing. First of all, the foreman had examined the quarry till he had found a stratum of the
right thickness. He had marked where the ends were to come, and the men had drilled holes down
to the bottom of the stratum. Then he had drawn a line at the back along where he wished the
split to be, and the men had drilled on this line also a row of holes. Next came the blasting.
If one very heavy charge had been exploded, it would probably have shattered the whole mass,
or at any rate have injured it badly. Instead of this, they put into each hole a light charge
of coarse powder and covered it with sand. These were all fired at the same instant, and thus
the great block was loosened from the wall. Sometimes there seems to be no sign of strata,
and then a line of horizontal holes must be drilled where the bottom of the block is to be.
After this comes what is called the "plug-and-feather" process. Into each hole are placed two
pieces of iron, shaped like a pencil split down the middle. These are the "feathers." The "plug"
is a small steel wedge that is put between the iron pieces. Then two men with hammers go down
the line and strike each wedge almost as gently as if it was a nut whose kernel they were afraid
of crushing. They go down the line again, striking as softly as before. Then, if you look closely,
you can see a tiny crack between the holes. There is more hammering, the crack stretches farther,
a few of the wedges are driven deeper and the others drop out. The block splits off. A mighty
chain is then wound about it, the steam derrick lifts it, lays it gently upon a car, and it
is carried to the shed to be cut into shape, smoothed, and perhaps polished.

In almost every kind of work new methods are invented after a while. In quarrying, however,
the same old methods are in use. The only difference is that, instead of the work being done
by muscle, it is done by compressed air or steam or electricity. Compressed air or steam works
the drill and the sledgehammer. The drill is held by an arm, but the arm is a long steel rod
which is only guided by the workman. Not the horse-sweep of old times, but the steam derrick
and the electric hoist lift the heavy blocks from the quarry. Polishing used to be a very slow,
expensive operation, because it was all done by the strength of some one's right arm, but now,
although it takes as much work as ever, this work is done by machinery. To "point" a piece
of stone, or give it a somewhat smooth surface, is done now with tools worked by compressed
air. After this, the stone is rubbed--by machinery, of course--with water and emery, then by
wet felt covered with pumice or polishing putty. A few years ago two young Vermonters invented
a machine that would saw granite. This saw has no teeth, but only blades of iron. Between these
blades and the piece of granite, however, shot of chilled steel are poured; and they do the
real cutting.

Granite has long been used in building wherever a strong, solid material was needed; but until
the sand blast was tried, people thought it impossible to do fine work in this stone. There
was a firm in Vermont, however, who believed in the sand blast. They had a contract with the
Government to furnish several thousand headstones for national cemeteries. Cutting the names
would be slow and costly; so they made letters and figures of iron, stuck them to the stones,
and turned on the blast. If a sand blast is only fast enough, it will cut stone harder than
itself. The blast was turned upon a stone for five minutes. Then the iron letters were removed.
There stood in raised letters the name, company, regiment, and rank of the soldier, while a
quarter of an inch of the rest of the stone, which the iron letters had not protected, had
been cut away. By means of the sand blast it has become possible to do beautiful carving even
in material as hard as granite.

Granite looks so solid that people used to think it was fireproof; but it is really poor material
in a great fire. Most substances expand when they are heated; but the three substances of which
granite is made do not expand alike, and so they tend to break apart and the granite crumbles.

A marble quarry is even more interesting than a granite quarry. If you stand on a hill in a
part of the country where marble is worked, you will see white ledges cropping out here and
there. The little villages are white because many of the houses are built of marble. Then,
too, there are great marble quarries flashing in the sunshine. Sometimes a marble quarry is
chiefly on the surface. Sometimes the marble stretches into the earth, and the cutting follows
it until a great cavern is made, perhaps two or three hundred feet deep. A roof is often built
to keep out the rain and snow. It keeps out the light, too, and on rainy days the roof, together
with the smoke and steam of the engines, makes the bottom of the quarry a gloomy place. Everywhere
there are slender ladders with men running up and down them. There are shouts of the men, clanking
of chains, and puffing of locomotives.

Marble is cut out in somewhat the same way as granite, but a valuable machine called a "channeler"
is much used. This machine runs back and forth, cutting a channel two inches wide along the
ends and back and sometimes the bottom of the block to be taken out.

Marble is so much softer than granite that it is far more easy to work. Cutting it is a simple
matter. The saw, which is a smooth flat blade of iron, swings back and forth, while between
it and the marble sand and water are fed. It does not exactly cut, but rubs, its way through.
The round holes in the tops of washstands are cut by saws like this, only bent in the form
of a cylinder and turned round and round, going in a little deeper at each revolution. A queer
sort of saw is coming into use. It is a cord made of three steel wires twisted loosely together.
This cord is stretched tightly over pulleys and moves very rapidly. Every little ridge of the
cord strikes the stone and cuts a little of it away.

There are varieties of marble without end. The purest and daintiest is the white of which statues
are carved; but there are black, red, yellow, gray, blue, green, pink, and orange in all shades.
Many are beautifully marked. The inner walls of buildings are sometimes covered with thin slabs
of marble. These are often carefully split, and the two pieces put up side by side, so that
the pattern on one is reversed on the other. Certain kinds of marble contain fossils or remains
of coral and other animals that lived hundreds of thousands of years ago. In some marbles there
are so many that the stone seems to be almost made of them. When a slab is cut and polished,
the fossils are of course cut into; but even then we can sometimes see their shape. One of
the most common is the crinoid. This was really an animal, but it looked somewhat like a closed
pond lily with a long stem, and people used to call it the stone lily. This stem is made up
of little flat rings looking like bits of a pipestem. The stems are often broken up and these
bits are scattered through the marble. The animals whose shells help to make marble lived in
the ocean, and when they died sank to the bottom. Many of the shells were broken by the beating
of the waves, but both broken shells and whole ones became united and hardened into limestone,
one kind of which we call marble. Common chalk is another kind. Blackboard crayons are made
of this: so are whitewash and whiting for cleaning silver and making putty.

Another stone that builders would be sorry to do without is slate. This, too, was formed at
the bottom of the sea. Rivers brought down fine particles of clay, which settled, were covered
by other matter, and finally became stone. It was formed in layers, of course, but, queerly
enough, it splits at right angles to its bottom line. Just why it does this is not quite certain,
but the action is thought to be due to heat and long, slow pressure, which will do wonderful
things, as in the case of coal. This splitting is a great convenience for the people who want
to use it for roofing and for blackboards. Blocks of slate are loosened by blasting, and are
taken to the splitting-shed.

Splitting slate needs care, and a man who is not careful should never try to work in a slate
quarry. The splitting begins by one man's dividing the block into pieces about two inches thick
and somewhat larger than the slates are to be when finished. The way he does this is to cut
a little notch in one end of the block with his "sculpin chisel" and make a groove from this
across the block. He must then set his chisel into the groove, strike it with a mallet, and
split the slate to the bottom. This sounds easy, but it needs skill. Slate has sometimes its
own notions of behavior, and it does not always care to split in a straight line exactly perpendicular
to the bottom of the stratum. The man keeps it wet so that he can see the crack more plainly,
and if that crack turns back a little to the right, he must turn it to the left by striking
the sculpin toward the left, or perhaps by striking a rather heavy blow on the left of the
stone itself. Now the chief splitter takes it, and with a broad thin chisel he splits it into
plates becoming thinner at each split. The second assistant trims these into the proper shape
and size with either a heavy knife or a machine. Slate can be sawed and planed; but whatever
is done to it should be done when it first comes from the quarry, for then it is not so likely
to break. It would be very much cheaper if so much was not broken and wasted at the quarries
and in the splitting. It is said that in Wales sometimes one hundred tons of stone are broken
up to get between three and four tons of good slate. Within the last few years the quarrymen
have been using channeling machines and getting out the slate in great masses instead of small
blocks. This is not so wasteful by any means; but even now there is room for new and helpful
inventions.

III

HOUSES OF SAND

If you wanted to build a house, of what should you build it? In a new country, people generally
use wood; but after a time wood grows expensive. Moreover, wood catches fire easily; therefore,
as a country becomes more thickly settled and people live close together in cities, stone and
brick are used. Large cities do not allow the building of wooden houses within a certain distance
from the center, and sometimes even the use of wooden shingles is forbidden. Of late years
large numbers of "concrete" or "cement" houses have been built. Our grandfathers would have
opened their eyes wide at the suggestion of a house built of sand, and would have felt anxious
at every rainfall lest their homes should suddenly melt away. Even after thousands of concrete
buildings were in use, many people still feared that they would not stand the cold winters
and hot summers of the United States; but it has been proved that concrete is a success provided
it is properly made.

No one can succeed in any work unless he understands how it should be done. Concrete is made
of Portland cement, mixed with sand and water and either broken stone, gravel, cinders, or
slag; but if any one thinks that he can mix these together without knowing how and produce
good concrete, he will make a bad mistake rather than a good building material.

First, he must buy Portland cement of the best quality. This cement is made of limestone and
clay, or marl, chalk, and slag. These are crushed and ground and put into a kiln which is heated
up to 2500° or 3000°F.; that is, from twelve to fourteen times as hot as boiling water. The
stone fuses sufficiently to form a sort of clinker. After this has cooled, it is ground so
fine that the greater part of it will pass through a sieve having 40,000 meshes to the square
inch. To every hundred pounds of this powder, about three pounds of gypsum is added. The mixture
is then put into the bags in which we see it for sale in the stores. This powder is so greedy
for water that it will absorb the moisture from the air around it. Even in the bags, it begins
to harden as soon as it gets some moisture; and as soon as it hardens, it is of no use. The
moral of that is to keep your cement in a dry place.

The second substance needed in concrete is broken stone or gravel. Of course a hard rock must
be selected, such as granite or trap rock. Limestone calcines in a heat exceeding 1000° F.,
and therefore it cannot be used in fireproof construction. Soft rock, like slate or shale or
soft sandstone, will not answer because it is not strong enough. Gravel is always hard. If
you look at a cut in a gravel bank, you will usually see strata of sand and then strata of
rounded pebbles of different sizes. The sand was once an ancient sea beach; the pebbles were
dashed up on it by waves or storms or some change of currents. They were at first only broken
bits of rock, but after being rolled about for a few thousand years in the ocean and on the
shore, the corners were all rounded. Soft rock would have been ground to powder by such treatment.
Sometimes, if there is to be no great strain on the concrete, cinders or pieces of brick may
be used instead of stone; and for some purposes they answer very well.

The third substance used in concrete is sand; but it must be the right kind of sand, having
both fine and coarse grains. These grains need to be sharp, or the cement will not stick to
them well. They must also be clean, that is, free from dirt. If you rub sand between your hands,
and it soils them, then there is clay or loam with it, and it must not be used in making concrete
unless it is thoroughly washed. Another way of testing it is to put it into a glass jar partly
full of water and shake it. Then let it settle. If there is soil in the sand, it will appear
as a stratum of mud on top of the sand.

The water with which these three substances are to be mixed must be clean and must contain
no acid and no strong alkali. As a general rule, there must be twice as much broken stone as
sand. When people first make concrete, they often expect too much of their materials. A good
rule for the strongest sort of cement, strong enough for floors on which heavy machines are
to stand, is one fourth of a barrel of cement, half a barrel of sand, and one barrel of gravel
or broken stone. Apparently this would make one and three fourths barrels; but in reality it
makes only about one barrel, because the sand fills in the spaces between the gravel, and the
cement fills in the spaces between the grains of sand.

There are many sorts of machines on the market for mixing the materials; but small quantities
can just as well be mixed by hand. The "mixing-bowl" is a platform, and on this the sand is
laid. Then comes the cement; and these two must be shoveled together several times. While this
is being done, the broken stone or gravel must be wet, and now it is put on top of the sand
and cement and well shoveled together, with just enough water added so that the mass will almost
bear the weight of a man.

Concrete is impatient to be hardening, and if it is not put into the right place, it will begin
promptly to harden in the wrong place, and nothing can be done with it afterwards. If it is
to be made in blocks, the moulds must be ready and the concrete put into them at once and well
tamped down. For such uses as beams and the sides of tanks where great strength is needed,
the cement is often "reinforced," that is, rods of iron or steel are embedded in it. For floors,
a sheet of woven wire is often stretched out and embedded. At first only solid blocks, made
to imitate rough stone, were used for houses, but the hollow block soon took their place. This
is cheaper; houses built this way are warmer in winter and cooler in summer; and it prevents
moisture from working through the walls. Many cities have regulations about the use of hollow
blocks, all the more strict because concrete is comparatively new as a building material. In
Philadelphia the blocks must be composed of at least one barrel of Portland cement to five
barrels of crushed rock or gravel. They must be three weeks old or more before being used;
the lintels and sills of the doors must be reinforced; and every block must be marked, so that
if the building should not prove to be of proper strength, the maker may be known. There would
seem, however, to be little question of the quality of the blocks, for samples must pass the
tests of the Bureau of Building Inspection.

Even better than the hollow block is the method of making the four walls of a house at once
by building double walls of boards and pouring in the concrete. When this has hardened, the
boards are removed, and whatever sort of finish the owner prefers is given to the walls. They
can be treated by spatter-work, pebble dash, or in other ways before the cement is fully set,
or by bush hammering and tool work after the cement has hardened. Coloring matter can be mixed
with the cement in the first place; and if the owner decides to change the color after the
house is completed, he can paint it with a thin cement of coloring matter mixed with plaster
of Paris.

A concrete house has several advantages. In the first place, it will not burn. Neither will
granite, but granite will fall to pieces in a hot fire. Granite is made of quartz, mica, and
feldspar, as has been said before. These three do not expand alike in heat; and therefore great
flakes of the stone split off, so that it really seems to melt away. A well-made concrete is
not affected by fire. It will not burn, and it will not carry heat to make other things burn.
For a concrete house no paint is needed and less fuel will be required to keep it warm. If
the floors are made with even a very little slant, "house-cleaning" consists of removing the
furniture and turning on the hose. Water-tank, sink, washtubs, and bathtubs can be cast in
concrete and given a smooth finish. Wooden floors can be laid over the concrete, or a border
of wood can be put around each room for tacking down carpets or rugs. A concrete house may
be as ornamental as the owner chooses, for columns and cornices and mouldings can easily be
made of concrete; and if they are cast in sand, as iron is, they will have a finish like sandstone.

It is somewhat troublesome to lay concrete in very cold weather, because of the danger of freezing
and cracking. Sometimes the materials are heated, and after the concrete is in place, straw
or sand or sawdust is spread over it. These will keep it warm for several hours, and so give
the concrete a chance to "set." Sometimes a canvas house is built over the work. When a concrete
dam was to be built in the Province of Quebec and the mercury was 20° below zero, the contractors
built a canvas house over one portion of the dam and set up iron stoves in it. When this part
was completed, they took down the house and built it up again over another portion of the dam.
Sometimes salt is used. Salt water is heavier than fresh water and will not freeze so easily.
Therefore salt put into the water used in making the concrete will enable it to endure more
cold without freezing; but not more than one pound of salt to twelve gallons of water should
be used.

Concrete objects to being frozen before it is "set," but it is exceedingly accommodating about
working under water. It must, of course, be carried in some way through the water to its proper
place without being washed away, but this is easily done. Sometimes it is let down in great
buckets closed at the top, but with a hinged bottom that will open when the bucket strikes
the rock or soil where the material is to be left. Sometimes it is poured down through a tube.
Sometimes it is dropped in sacks made of cloth. This cloth must be coarse, so that enough of
the concrete will ooze through it to unite the bag and its contents with what is below it and
make a solid mass. Sometimes even paper bags have been successfully used. The concrete, made
rather dry, is poured into the bags and they are slid down a chute. The paper soon becomes
soft and breaks, and lets the concrete out. Sometimes concrete blocks are moulded on land and
lowered by a derrick, while a diver stands ready to see that they go into their proper places.

Concrete is used for houses, churches, factories, walls, sidewalks, steps, foundations, sewers,
chimneys, piers, cellar bottoms, cisterns, tunnels, and even bridges. In the country, it is
used for silos, barn floors, ice houses, bins for vegetables, box stalls for horses, doghouses,
henhouses, fence posts, and drinking-troughs. It is of very great value in filling cavities
in decaying trees. All the decayed wood must be cut out, and some long nails driven from within
the cavity part-way toward the outside, so as to help hold the concrete. Then it is poured
in and allowed to harden. If the cavity is so large that there is danger of the trunk's breaking,
an iron pipe may be set in to strengthen it. If this is encased in concrete, it will not rust.
A horizontal limb with a large cavity may be strengthened by bending a piece of piping and
running one part of it into the limb and the other into the trunk, then filling the whole cavity
with concrete. If the bark is trimmed in such a way as to slant in toward the cavity, it will
sometimes grow entirely over it.

Concrete is also used for stucco work, that is, for plastering the outside of buildings. If
the building to be stuccoed is of brick or stone, the only preparation needed is to clean it
and wet it; then put on the plaster between one and two inches thick. A wooden house must first
be covered with two thicknesses of roofing-paper, then by wire lathing. The concrete will squeeze
through the lathing and set. Stucco work is nothing new, and if it is well done, it is lasting.

