GREAT SPEECH,

DELIVERED IN NEW YORK CITY,

BY

HENRY WARD BEECHER,

ON THE

Conflict of Northern and Southern Theories

OF MAN AND SOCIETY,

January 14, 1855. There is nothing more unaesthetic than
a vocal presentation with a full stomach. Moreover - and I know you are a man of the selected Kitchen,
yes Gourmand - also tastes better if you have the matter behind him. Only Art and walnut ice
cream then this is the right order. "

"So may I take the notes, Marietta?"

"Notes do. Yes, what that means, Gieshiibler?

How do I know you, you are all cabinets it full of notes, and I can
not play for the whole block and messenger.

Notes! What marks, Gieshiibler, that's what matters. And then, that it is correct, alto ... "

"Well, I'll fix that."

And he set out to create a cabinet, pulling out a tray at a time, while Trippelli her chair pushed further
to the left around the table so that they now close to Effi sat.

I'm curious as to what he will bring, "she said. Effi came here in a little embarrassment.

"I would assume," she replied, embarrassed, something "by Gluck, something very dramatic ...
In general, my dear lady, if I may allow me to say, I am surprised to hear that you are merely
a concert singer. I thought that you, as a few for which Stage would be called. Your appearance,
your energy, your body ... I have so little way to know, only on short visits to Berlin ...
and then I was still a half a child. But I thought, 'Orpheus' or
'Chriemhild' or the 'Vestal'.

"

Trippelli shook his head and looked into the abyss, but came to no answer, just because Gieshiibler
now again appeared and presented half a dozen music books, which
his girlfriend slide in quick succession by the left hand.

"'Erlkönig' ... ah, bah, 'brook, let be your noise ... ' But Gieshiibler, I ask you, you are
a groundhog, you have slept for seven years ... And here Loewesche ballads, not just the latest.

'Bells of Speyer' ... Ah, this eternal Bim-Bam, which almost amounts to a Kulissenreißerei, is tasteless
and stale. But here, 'Olaf Knights' ... Now, you can. "

And she got up, and while the minister, accompanied her singing the "Olaf" almost certainly
and brilliantly and earned general acclaim.

It was then found similar romantic, some of the "Flying Dutchman" and from "Zampa," then "of the"
heathen boy, all the things it with as much virtuosity as peace of mind recited while efficiency
was stunned by how text and composition.

When the Trippelli with the "heathen boy" was done, she said, "Now it is enough," a statement that
has been made so determined by it, that neither had yet another Gieshiibler the courage penetrate
into it with further requests. The least efficiency. This said, only when Gieshiibler Again
girlfriend was sitting next to her: "That I could tell you but, my dear lady, how grateful
I am! Everything is so beautiful, so secure, so turned.

But one thing, if you would excuse me, I admire almost everything, this is the calm with which
you prove those things . Know I've given up so easily impressions, and if I have the smallest ghost
story hear, I tremble and I can hardly get along again. And the bear so powerful and harrowing
before and are even quite cheerful and happy. "

"Yes, madame, this is no different in the art. And now even the first in the theater, Before
I left, fortunately preserved. For as sure as I personally am against his temptations feel
invulnerable - it spoils the reputation, so the best thing you have. In other blunts we have
as colleagues assured me hundreds of times.

As is poisoned and stabbed, and dead Romeo Juliet whispers in his
ear a corny joke or perhaps a Malice, he or she presses a small love
letter in his hand.

"

"It is incomprehensible to me.

And about where to stop, what do I owe you this evening, example,
in the ghostly in the 'Olaf', I assure you, if I have an anxious I
dream or when I think about me I heard a gentle dancing or playing
music, while but no one is there, or who sneak past my bed, I am beside
myself and can not forget it for days.

"

"Yes, my lady, what you describe here and describe, that's something
else this is real or may be at least somewhat real.

A ghost, by the Ballad goes, I Graule me at all, but a ghost that
goes through my office, I feel just like another, very unpleasant.

In it we feel the very same words. "

"Have you seen the like too?"

"Certainly. Even more on Kotschukoff. And I've also insisted that I be different this time sleep,
perhaps together with the English governess. That is namely, a Quaker,
and since one is safe.

"

"And you keep the like of this?"

"My dear Madam, if you're as old as I was and much rumgestoßen and Russia was, and even half a
year in Romania, since you keep everything possible for. There is so much bad people, and the
other is found then that belongs so to speak with them. "

Effi listened.

"I am," continued the trip Pelli, "was a very enlightened family (only with mother Still not quite),
but my father told me when the psycho came up with the graph: 'Listen, Mane, that's what. " And
he was right, it is what it. In general, it is umlauert left and right, back and front. You will
learn the know. "

At that moment came up and offered Gieshiibler Effi's arm, led Innstetten
Marietta, then followed and the widowed pastor Lindequist Trippel.

So you went to dinner.

Chapter Twelve

It was late when we broke up. Soon after ten Effi had told Gieshiibler, it was now probably time;
Miss Trippelli that should not miss the train had, already at six break of Kessin, and the next to it
Trippelli but that is these words with of their own uninhibited eloquence to such tender regard
protests. "Oh, madame, you believe that people like us need a regular sleep, which meets but not to,
what we do regularly, is applause and high prices. Yes, you laugh. Also (so what you learn),
I can also sleep in the coupe, in any situation and even the left side, and not even need to open
the dress. Of course I'm never pressed, chest and lungs must always be free and above all the heart.
Yes, my dear Woman, that's the main thing. And then the chapter sleep at all - the amount it
does not, decides what is quality, a good nod of five minutes is better than five hours Rumdreherei
restless, sometimes left, sometimes right. By the way you sleep wonderfully in Russia, despite
of strong tea. It must make the air or the late dinner or because one is so spoiled. Ensure there is
not in Russia; it - in the money point, both are the same - Russia is still better than America.
"

According to this explanation of Trippelli Effi had taken all reminders for departure clearance,
and as midnight had arrived. They parted cordially and cheerfully and with a certain Confidentiality.
The path from the invasion of Germany until the apartment was quite landrätlichen far, but he cut
in that Pastor Lindequist asked Innstetten and women a range may
accompany, a stroll under the stars would be best to discuss Gieshiibler
Rhine wine over it.

Along the way you were not tired, of course, a variety of triple Liana Recourse should, Effi
began with what she stood out and came right after her the minister's turn. The latter, a Ironikus
had Trippelli how, after much very secular, so finally after their church asked, taking in
the direction of their experience placed that they know only one direction, the Orthodox. Her
father was indeed a rationalist been virtually a free spirit, so he also liked the Chinese community
in the churchyard would have been, but she in turn was quite the
opposite view, though she personally of large enjoy preferred to believe
anything.

But she had made in their Not every moment of faith but also aware
that this is a special luxury you are could allow only as a private
person.

State-listen to the fun, and if you the Ministry of Culture or would
even a Konsistorialregiment, they would proceed with unrelenting severity.

"I feel something in me of a Torquemada. Innstetten was highly amused, and told For his part, something
so delicate that he, like the dogmatic, studiously avoided, but that
the moral had been more to the fore.

Main topic was the seductive been the constant dangers to which all
lie in public appearance, after which the Trippelli replied lightly,
with emphasis of the second half, "Yes, resistant endangered; mostly
the voice.

"

Under such chatter was before they separated, the Trippelli evening at them again ceased, and only
three days later by a friend had Gieshiibler of Petersburg from Effi telegram addressed to
once again brought to mind. It read: Madame la Baronne d'Innstetten, née de Briest. Bien arrivée.
Prince K. à la gare. Plus de moi que Eprise jamais. Mille fois merci de votre bon accueil. Compliments
empress à Monsieur le Baron. Marietta Trippelli.

Innstetten was delighted and gave the lively expression of delight could be understood as Effi.

"I
do not understand you, Geert."

"Because you Trippelli not understand. I am delighted with the authenticity, all there, up on
the spot above the i. "

"So you take everything as a comedy?"

"But as what? Calculated for all there and here, for Kotschukoff and Gieshiibler. Gieshiibler
will probably start a foundation, maybe just a legacy for the trip Pelli. "

The musical soiree at Gieshiibler had taken place in mid-December, soon after began the preparations
for Christmas, and efficiency that would otherwise gone to hard about
these days would be blessed her that she herself had a household,
whose claims are paid had.

        There was contemplate ask, acquire, and
        all that did not pay gloomy thoughts.
        The day before Christmas
        Eve gifts came from the parents
        of high-Cremmen, and in the Box were all sorts of little
        things from the packed house Kantor: beautiful pure tablets of a
tree, the efficiency and Jahnke several years ago had inoculated jointly,
and to brown heart and knee warmers from Bertha and Hertha.

Hulda wrote a few lines, because, as she apologized to knit for X to have another manta. "What
just not is true, "said Effi. "I bet, X. does not exist. That they can not give it up, to surround
himself with admirers that are not there, "And so came on Christmas Eve. Innstetten itself built
up for his young wife, the tree was burning, and a little angel floating above in airing Also
there was a crib with pretty banners and inscriptions, one of which is silent in Allusion to a home
for the next year moved Innstettenschen upcoming event. Effi read it and blushed. Then she went
up to Innstetten to thank him, but before she blogs could, flew, after altpommerschem Christmas
tradition, a Julklapp in the hall: a large Box, put in it a world of things. Last they found
the main thing, a petite, with all sorts of pictures of Japanese Morsellenkästchen glued with its explicit
content also a note was added. It was said:

Three kings came to the Holy Christ, Mohr has been a king - A Mohrenapothekerlein Appear today
Spezerein, But instead of frankincense and myrrh that are not on
the spot Bring it pistachio-and almond-Morselle.

Effi read it two or three times and was happy about it. have "The homage of a good man something
very beneficial. Did not you Geert? "Certainly I think it is this actually the only thing
that makes a joy or should at least be fun. For each evening "is
still in it in all sorts of nonsense.

So do I. But of course you are, how man. "The first public holiday was fair day, the second
one was at Borckes outside, all present, except Grasenabbs, who did not come because Sidonie was not
there, what is called Apology was particularly pretty on all sides. Some even whispered: "Conversely,
just therefore they should have come. "On New Year's ball was resources, missing on the efficiency
was allowed and not wanted, because the ball was her opportunity to finally even the whole city
flora together to see. Johanna had to prepare for the Ball State for their gracious fully do Gieshiibler,
which, like everything, it also had a greenhouse, sent camellias, and Innstetten so limited
the time for him, went in the afternoon after over land Papenhagen, where three barns were
burned down.

It was very quiet in the house. Christel, unemployed, had a footstool sleepy moved to the hearth,
and Effi retired to her bedroom, where she was, between the mirror and sofa, a small set for
this purpose trimmed desk to Leave from here to the mummy, who for Christmas letter and Christmas
presents had until then only thanks to a map, but where else for weeks, no message.

Kessin, 31 December. My dear mother! This will now probably be a long write letters, for I have
- the card does not expect - a long time nothing heard from me. When I was the last time wrote,
I was still in its Christmas preparations, are now the Christmas holidays back already. Innstetten
and my good friend Gieshiibler had summoned all the me Christmas Eve to make it as pleasant as
possible, but I still felt a little lonely and I was afraid for you. Anyway, I have much cause to
give thanks and glad and happy to be, I can get rid of a feeling of being alone do not fully
and when I used to, perhaps more than necessary, I made fun of Hulda's eternal feeling tears, I will now
punished and myself have struggled with this tear. For Innstetten may not see it. I'm sure
it will all be better off if our household is more animated, and will be the case, my dear
mother. What I suggested the other day, which is now a certainty, and Innstetten me witness daily
his delight. How happy I am in the same order sure, I'm not only need to insure, if only because
I then life and distraction have about me or would like Geert puts it, "a" dear little toy.
This Word, he will be right, but he should rather not use because I always a little prick is and
reminds me how young I am and that I was still half in the nursery belongs. This idea does not
leave me (Geert thinks it is morbid) and it can bring about, that what should be my greatest
happiness, but almost more of a constant embarrassment for me. Yes, my dear mother, Flemming's
when the good ladies inquired the other day after all possible, I felt as if I were ill-prepared
in an exam and I also believe that I have answered quite stupid. Was annoyed I also. Because
much of what looks like attendance is, but just curious and is all the more insistent, I still long,
even into the summer had to wait for the happy event. I believe that the first days of July.
Then you must come, or better yet, as soon as I reasonably 'm back in ways I come, take holidays
here and make me after high-Cremmen. Ah! I'm looking forward to the Havelland and air - there
is almost always rough and cold - and then every day a trip to the Luch, all red and yellow,
and I can already see how the child hands stretched out then, because it will still feel that
there really at home there is. But I write not only Dir Innstetten know about, and also in relation
to you I must apologize as that I want with the child after the High-Cremmen and me today already
log in, instead of you, my dear mother, strongly and warmly invited to Kessin out yes but
every summer the fifteen hundred swimmers and vessels has all sorts of flags dunes, and even a hotel.
But I see so little hospitality, which does not make that I inhospitable would be so much I'm
not knocked out of the way, it just makes our landrätliches House that has so much Nice and Apartments
it, but really not a proper home, but only one apartment for two people, and even that little,
because we do not even have a dining room, which is yet Genant, when a few people set to visit.
We have of course still rooms on the first floor, a large hall and four small rooms, but they all have
something uninviting, and I would call it junk room, when something Vorfände junk in it, but they
are completely empty, not counting a few bins chairs, and make to say the least, a very strange
impression. Now you will probably think that everything had to change so easily. But it is not
to change for the house, which we inhabit is ... is a haunted house, because it is out. I implore
you by the way, me in that my communication The answer, for I always see Innstetten your letters,
and he was beside himself when it knew that I wrote you this. I would not have done that, and although
less so I have stayed for weeks in silence and have ceased to frighten me, but Joan tells
me it would from time to time, especially if anyone new in the home appear. And I can still be
connected to such a risk or, if this is too much said that such a peculiar and uncomfortable
disorder not expose With the thing itself I will not trouble you today at least not in detail.
It is a story of an old captain, a so-called China driver, and his granddaughter, who engaged
to a local young captain for a short time and was on her wedding day suddenly disappeared. That
would going away. But what's more important is a young Chinese man, who had been brought back from
China with her father and only the Servant, and was the friend of the old then, who died shortly
afterwards and is at a lonely Body was buried next to the churchyard. I recently went over there,
I turned but rapidly, and looked to the other side, because I think I would have otherwise
on the grave see fit. For oh, my dear mother, I have really seen him once, or it is me at least
as happened when I slept and Innstetten when visiting prince was. It was terrible, I would so
not what to do again. And in such a house, so otherwise it is pretty (it is, strangely enough,
comfortable and uncanny), I can be connected but do not invite well. And Innstetten, but I finally
agreed to it in many pieces, it has, so far as to say I would like, may also behaved not quite
right. He asked from me to all regard as old-wives-nonsense and laugh, but suddenly but he
seemed to believe himself again and put me at the same time the strange considered unreasonable, such
as something Hausspuk Elegant and adult eagles. I can but not, and it will not. It is at this point,
it is usually not so kind, benevolent and indulgent enough to me. That there is so little that
I know of Joan and know it from our Mrs. Kruse. For that is our coach woman with a black Chicken
sits in a stable over-heated room. This itself is anxious enough. And now you know why I want
to come, if it is only so far.

Oh, it would be only so far.

There are so many reasons why I want it. Tonight we have New Year's Eve ball, and Gieshiibler
- The only nice person here, but he actually has a high shoulder or something more - Gieshiibler
camellia has sent me. But maybe I will dance. Our Doctors says it would harm me, quite the opposite.
Innstetten And what surprised me most, also agreed. And now greet and kiss daddy and all the
other ones. Good luck to new year. Your Effi.

Chapter Thirteen

The New Year's ball lasted until early morning, and was admired Effi extensively been, though not quite
as good grace as the camellia bouquet from which it was known that it Gieshüblerschen came
out of the greenhouse. Moreover, even after the New Year's Eve Ball everything remained the
old, that would hardly attempts societal approach has been made, and so it came then, that the
winter was long regarded as a fairly permanent. Visits from the neighboring Noble families were
held only infrequently, and the dutiful return visit was in a Trauerton half each time the remark ahead:
"Yes, Geert, if it absolutely has to be, but I die of boredom. "words, which only agreed Innstetten
forever. What to such a visit afternoons about family, children, and agriculture was said, liked
to go, but if the church Questions for the series came and treated the co-presence pastors like
little popes or even well-regarded himself as such, then tore the thread of patience, efficiency,
and 'm nostalgic for Niemeyer, who was always reserved and modest, but it at every major celebration
was said that he had what it takes to be called the "cathedral." With the Borck, the Fleming,
the Grasenabbs, so friendly to families, apart from Sidonie Grasenabb, minded were - it was not all go so
right, and it would have with pleasure, diversion and only tolerable self-pleasant-feeling sometimes
been quite bad if Gieshiibler would not have been. Which ensured efficiency as a small Providence,
and she knew him well Thanks. Of course, he was next to everything else, also a keen and attentive
newspaper readers not to mention that he was at the head of the Journal circle, and so passed
since almost Not a day would have brought out a large white envelope not Mirambo with all
sorts of leaves and Newspapers in which the authorities concerned were painted, usually a small,
fine pencil line but sometimes also with thick blue pencil and an exclamation or question mark
beside it. And he let it go not, he also sent figs and dates, chocolate bars Satineepapier and
a red ribbon drum, and when something particularly nice flourished in his greenhouse, so he brought
it himself and then had a happy course stories with him so likeable young woman for whom he
all the beautiful feelings of love and had by-side by side, that of the Father and uncle, the
teacher and admirer. Effi was touched by all this and wrote often
High-Cremmen about it, so that the mother to tease her with their
"love of the alchemists' began, but this well-intentioned teasing
failed its purpose, so they almost touched painful, because you, though
unclear, it became conscious of what you are actually in their marriage
missing: homage, inspiration, little things. Innstetten was kind and
good, but a lover he was not. He had to love the feeling of efficiency
and the good conscience that so be it, let him refrain from special
efforts. If sharks in great
cities consume the too credulous emigrant; if usurers, like moths, cut the fabric of life with
invisible teeth; if landlords sack their tenements and pinch the tenant--all these results
are against the spirit of our law, against public feeling, and they that do such things must
slink and burrow. They are vermin that run in the walls, and peep from hiding-holes, and we
set traps for them as we do for rats or weazels. But, in the South, the subordination of man,
to man, in his earnings, his skill, his time and labor--in his person, his affections, his
very children--is a part of the theory of society, drawn out into explicit statutory law, coincident
with public opinion, and executed without secrecy. A net spread for those guilty of such wrongs
against man, would catch States, and Legislatures, Citizens, Courts, and Constitutions.

In the North the most useless pauper that burdens the Alms-House--the most uncombed foreigner
that delves in a ditch--the most abject creature that begs a morsel from door to door, is yet
a man; and there is, not in theory only, but in the public sentiment, a sacredness of rights,
which no man, except by stealth, can violate with impunity. There is no other law for the Governor
of New-York or of Massachusetts, than for the beggar in your streets. What da
overloaded, this is something completely different - anxiety, fear of death and the eternal
fear: There is still yet at the end of the day. And then out of fear ... Shame. I am ashamed.
But as I do not have the right regrets, I'm not the right shame. I am ashamed only of could
always, it was my pride that I did not lie, and also, because of the perpetual lies and deceit
do not need to lie, lie, is so common, and now I have but always lie, in him and to everybody
in the large and small, and Rummschuttel noticed it and has the Shrugged his shoulders, and who
knows what he thinks of me, certainly not the best. Yes, anxiety torments me and to my shame
lies game. But shame on my fault that I did not or not so legally or not quite enough, and that's
killing me that I did not have. If all women are like that, it's terrible, and if they are not
the way I hope then it is bad for me, something is not right in my soul, is missing me the right
feeling. And my old Niemeyer has not in his good days, when I was half a child, once said to
a real sense, this is what came, and if you have that, then one could pass the worst, and
if you do not have it, then it is in perpetual danger, and what we call the devil, which had
then safe power over us. For God's mercy, that is the case with me? "

And she laid her head in her arms and wept bitterly.

When she straightened up again, they had become quiet and looked out into the garden. Everything
was so still and quiet, fine clay, as if it was raining, met the plane her her ear.

So passed a while. Across from the village street sounded a bawling: the old night watchman
Kulicke cried from the hour, and when he was silent at last, she heard from afar, but always
Coming closer, the rattle of the train, the half a mile away at the High-Cremmen drove past.
 Let
him separate a mother from her daughters, let him employ a hireling ruffian to carry off the
boys into the country and parcel them out there--let him scatter the flock, and leave the children
motherless, and the parents childless, and what do you think would become of him?

In the South it is a part of the civil rights of men to do these things whenever they please. 

Returning to Raphael cartons back and pronounce that they are all meant male; moral seriousness,
exercise ominous size everywhere, and though now and then mysteriously but those are they well
aware of what the parting of the Savior and the wonderful Gifts that he left his disciples, are sufficiently
informed of the scriptures.

Let us above all the humiliation and punishment of Ananias in mind, because for us at any time the
small, the Mark Antony not unfairly attributed to copperplate engraving, after a detailed Raphael's drawing,
a replica of the cartons of Dorigny and the comparison of both sufficient
A service provider.

Compositions, this little one can sit down at the page, here is a
great concept, a maximum in its characteristic important action in
its fullest diversity shown on the clearest.

The apostles as a pious gift of the property of each line, delivered in the general property,
expecting, and the approach-making believers on the one receiving the needy on the other side, and awful
in the middle of the Defraudierende punished: an arrangement that Symmetry of the given and show
that again by the requirements concerning depictions not hidden,
both as living will, as indeed the indispensable balanced proportions
of the human body only through varied life movement haunting interest
wins.

If, in view of this artwork would be no end of comments, so do Here we distinguish only an
important merit of this representation. Two male Persons who approached coming together packed
garments wear hearing necessary to Ananias, but what you will see from this that some of them stayed
back and the Common property have been embezzled? But here we are aware of a young pretty Weibsperson
done that with a cheerful face from the right hand money counts in the left, and once we recall
the noble words: "The left should not know what are the rights", and do not doubt that this was
meant Saphira, which the apostles money to be submitted counts down to still retain some of which
seems to indicate their cunning serene countenance. This idea is erstaunenswuerdig and terrible
when one surrenders to him. Before us the Husband, already dislocated and punished on the ground writhing
in grisly contraction; little hinterwaerts, Advancing the not becoming aware, the wife, fraudulently
secure thoughtfully, the Divine to favor, without any idea what fate is approaching. at all is
this picture as an eternal problem before us, which we admire more and more, the more we whose resolution
possible and clear. The comparison of the Mark-Anton tables copper, after an identical Raphael's
drawing, and the bigger of Dorigny, after the box, takes us again into the depth of reflection,
wisdom with which such a talent at a second treatment is known to cause the same composition Vera
end changes and improvements. We confess like to see such a study has served us to the most
beautiful pleasures of a long life.

July

Correspondence

Rome, 5 July 1787

My life now sees a youth dream completely similar, we will see if I intended am to enjoy it, or to
learn that this, like so many others, is only vain. Table leg is gone, cleaned up his studies, ausgestaeubt
and washed, so I now glad in it may be. How necessary is it, at the present time to have a
comfortable home. The heat is tremendous. Morning at sunrise I stand up and go after the Acqua
acetosa, a sour wells, about half an hour from the gate, where I live, drink the water, Schwalbacher
tastes like a weak, but in this climate is very effective. About eight clock I'm back home
and I am busy in every way, as the mood wants to give. I'm quite comfortable. The heat creates and drives
away all Fluvial what Sharpness in the body is, according to the skin, and it is better that itches
evil, as that It pulls and pulls. In drawing driving I continue to make, taste and hand, I've
architecture been increasing very serious, it will give me everything amazingly light (ie the
term because the exercise requires a life). What was the best thing I did not have Eigenduenkel
and no pretensions, I had to ask anything, when I came here. And now I penetrate only it, that
my name will not stay, not words. What beautiful, large, is considered honorable, I want to see
with my own eyes and see. Without imitation, this is not possible. Now I have to sit down at
the Gipskoepfe. (The right method is suggested to me by artists. I think together what is
possible.) At the beginning of the week 'I could not cancel it, to eat here and there. Now they
want me here - and there have, I leave it voruebergehn and abide in my silence. Moritz, some country
people in the house, a brave Swiss are my usual deal. For Angela and Council Reiffenstein
I go too; everywhere with my thoughtful manner, and no one is that I opened myself. Lucchesini
is here again all the world sees and is seen as all the world. A man who does his job right, if
I'm very much mistaken.

Next time I write to you by some people that I soon know hope.

"Egmont" is in the work, and I hope he will come. At least I have always Have had the symptoms that
I have not cheated. It is quite strange for me so often have been held to terminate the piece,
and that it now be done in Rome is.

The first act is a pure life and maturity, there are whole scenes in the play, which I do not
stir need.

I have to think about all kinds of art so much opportunity that my "Wilhelm Meister" right swells.
But now the old things are supposed away, I'm old enough and if I still want to do something,
I can not delay me. As you can imagine easily, I have hundred new things in the head, and
it does not come on thinking, it comes to making again: this is an enchanted thing, add the
objects that the way it is and not otherwise . Stand I want to talk
right now much of the art, but without the art works which want to
say?

I hope to move away over some small size, that's why begrudge with my time, I here so wonderful
and strange match, she indulged me by the applause of your love.

I must close this time and sent against his will, a blank page. The heat of the day was large,
and in the evening I went to sleep.

Rome, 9 July.

I will write some future over a week, that the heat of the day or post- Random hindre me someone
else to tell you a word of sense. Yesterday I got a lot seen and seen again, I might have been
twelve churches where the most beautiful Altarblaetter are.

Then I was with Angela when the Englishman Moore, a landscape painter, whose paintings usually
are considered excellent. Among others he has painted a Suendflut, this is something single
one. Instead of an open sea that others have taken that only the idea of ​​a broad, but high water
there, he presented a closed high mountain valley in which the ever-increasing water hereinstuerzen
finally. Man looks at the shape of the rocks, that the water level is approaching the summit, and
the fact that it shut behind quervor is all the rocks are steep, it's a terrible effect. It is,
as only painted gray in gray, stormy connect the dirty water, the dripping rain are most intimately,
the water and come crashing drips from the rocks, as if the vast masses would also be dissolved
in the common elements, and the sun looks like muddy Moon through the Wasserflor by to enlighten
without, and yet it is not night.

In the middle the foreground is a flat plate isolated rock on which some helpless people save
in that moment that the tide heranschwillt and will cover them. The whole is incredibly well
thought out. The picture is great. It can be 7-8 feet long and 5-6 feet high. Of the other
pictures, a wonderfully beautiful morning, an excellent night, I say no nothing.

Three full days were hard on Ara Coeli for the beatification of two saints of the Order of St.
Francis. The decoration of the church, music, illuminations and fireworks At night drew a
large crowd of people there. The nearby Capitol was lit up with and the fireworks on the square
of the Capitol burned. The whole thing went together very , Beautiful though it was only a sequel
of St. Peter.

Roman women show up at this Opportunity, accompanied by their husbands or friends, dressed in white
at night with a black belt and are nice and polite. Also in the parade is now more frequently at
night Walk and ride, since the day it does not leave the house.

The heat is very tolerable and these days blowing her always a cool
Windchen.

I'm holding in my chilly hall and am quiet and happy.

I'm busy, my "Egmont" proceeds much.

Strange is it that they just now in Brussels The scenes, as I wrote down before twelve years,
it is now much for libel . Keep

Rome, 16 July.

It is already well into the night, and it does not notice because the road is full of people
the singing, playing on harps and violins, together alternately, walk up and down. The Nights
are cool and refreshing, the days hot, not unbearable.

Yesterday I was with Angela in the Farnesina, where the fable of Psyche is painted. How often and
how many situations I have the colored copies of these pictures in my room looked upon with you!
It struck me right, because I just through those copies, almost by heart white. This hall, or rather gallery
is the most beautiful thing I know of decoration, so much even now
turn corrupt, and is restored.

Today, animal baiting was in the tomb of August. This big, empty inside, open top, all round
building is now a battleground, to set up a rush like a bull Amphitheater. There will be four - can
take up to five thousand people.

The play even I was not very built.

Tuesday, 17 July, was the evening when I Albacini, the restorer of antique statues, a see torso,
which she farnesinischen the possessions that go to Naples, found have. It is a torso of a
seated Apollo and has of beauty might not like him, at least he can
be placed under the first things that are from ancient remains.

I dined at Count Fries; Abbate Casti, who travels with him, reciting
one of his novels, "The archbishop of Prague," the beautiful is not
very honest, but exceptionally, in rime Ottave, written.

I liked him already as the author of my favorite "Re Teodoro in Venezia. "He now has a" Re
Teodoro wrote in Corsica ", which I read the first act have also a very excellent work.

Count Fries buys a lot and has among others a Madonna by Andrea del Sarto for 600 gold pieces
purchased.

Last March, Angela had already offered 450 on it, also would have the whole it may, if you
would have no objection attente husband had something. Now she's regret both. It is an incredibly
beautiful image, you have no idea of ​​such a thing without it saw
have to.

And so daily to something new comes to light, which joined to the old and behind, a great pleasure
granted. My eye is formed well, with time I might know be.

Table leg in a letter complaining about the terrible heat in Naples. Here is They also strongly
enough. On Tuesday it was said to be so hot, it's not as foreigners in Spain Portugal and felt.

"Egmont"
already up in the fourth act is drafted, I hope he will make you joy. In three weeks I think
to be done, and I'll send it immediately to Herder from.

Drawn and illuminated is also busy. You can not go out of the home's not Promenade make the smallest,
without matching the worthy objects. My idea my memory fills up completely infinitely beautiful
objects.

Rome, 20 July. 20

I'm right this time since two of my major mistake that haunts me all
my life and may have tortured discover.

One is that I never trade a thing I wanted to drive or should learn to like it. Therefore has come for
me with so much have, of course investment made so little and done. Either it was through the
power of the mind forced succeeded or failed, as luck and coincidence, or if I have one thing
wanted to do well and with deliberation, I was afraid and could not
be completed.

The other closely related error is that I never had much time on a job or business contact might,
as this will require. Since I enjoy the bliss, very much in short-term thinking and can combine,
so to me is a stepping nojos and unbearable. Well, I should think there would be time and time
to correct itself. I am in the land of arts, let's work through the tray, so that we for the rest
of our lives Peace and joy have to go and what else can.

Rome is a great place to do so.

Not only the objects of all kinds are here, but also people of all
kinds, which it is seriously going to the right paths, with which
one can bring to entertaining even more conveniently and speedily.

Thank God, I'm starting to from others and can learn to accept.

And so I find myself in body and soul feel better than ever! Would you like it in all my films see and
praise my absence. By what I do and think, 'I'll hang with you together, by the way I am of course
very much alone and must modify my talks.

But this is easier than anywhere because you have something interesting
to talk to everyone.

Meng says somewhere, the Apollo Belvedere that a statue to the same large scale more Truth of the
flesh joined, the biggest would be, what man could imagine. And by that torso of Apollo and
Bacchus, which I already thought, it seems his wish his prophecy
to be fulfilled.

My eye is not formed enough to be in such a delicate matter to decide, but I myself am inclined to
think that to rest for the most beautiful, I have ever seen. Unfortunately, it is not just only
torso, but also is epiderm in many places washed away, he must have been under an eave.

Sunday, 22 July,

I ate at Angela, and it has now been brought here, that I am their
guest Sunday.

Before We drove to the palace Barberini, the excellent Leonard da Vinci and the mistress of
Raphael, he painted himself to see. With Angela it is even pleasant to look at paintings, because
her eyes well educated and their knowledge of mechanical art is so great. She is very for
everything beautiful, the true, incredibly sensitive and delicate modest.

Angelica Kauffmann Self-portrait.

Drawing

Afternoon I was at the Chevalier d'Agincourt, a wealthy Frenchman, his time and uses his money
to write a history of art from their decline to revival. The collections that he has made are very
interesting. We see how the human mind during the cloudy and dark period was always busy. If
the work comes together, it will be very strange.

Now I have something before, because I'm learning a lot and I have invented and designed a landscape,
a skilled artist, this, colored in my presence; gets used by the
eye and mind more and more color and harmony. at all is fine.

Fort, I drive only As always, too much.

My biggest joy is that my eye is back on form and get used to shape
and ratio of light while keeping my old feeling for and a whole returns
quite lively.

Would depend on exercise now everything.

Monday, 23 July,

I boarded the evening Trajan's column, to enjoy the priceless vision. From down up there, at sunset,
they will take the Coliseum from all glorious, the Capitol very close
to the Palatine Hill behind the town, which follows.

I was late and slowly through the streets back. A strange object is the place of Monte Cavallo
with the obelisk.

Tuesday, 24 July

After the Villa Patrizzi to watch the sun go down,
enjoy the fresh air, my mind right anzufuellen with the image of the
big city, think through the long lines Horizons broaden and simplify
the many beautiful and varied Enrich belongings. This evening I saw
the place of the Antonine column, the palace Chigi illuminated by
the moon, and the column, black by age, lighter against the night
sky, with a white shiny pedestal. And how many other countless beautiful
individual items are found on such a promenade. But how much belongs
to only a small part by appropriating all this! It is part of a human
life to so many people's lives, to always learn from each other gradually.

Entrance
to the Villa Chigi in Ariccia. Drawing by Goethe

Wednesday, 25 July

I
could see with the Count Fries, the gem collection of the Prince of
Piombino.

Friday the 27th.

Besides, all my artists to help old and
young to zuzustutzen my Talentchen and expand. In the perspective
and architecture, I am advanced, and in the composition of the landscape.
In the living creatures depends's still there is an abyss, but would
be serious as well as application here also to get ahead.

I do not
know if I said a word about the concert I gave at the end of last
week. I invited those people to have me here gives much pleasure,
and let by the singer of comic opera, the best list of the last pieces
Intermezzen. Everybody was happy and satisfied. And when our
whole public interests are rounded out and built up, we are glad to see men going around and
about, marking well our towers, and counting our bulwarks. May it do them good to see such
architecture and engineering! And it is just this difference that distinguishes the North and
the South. We have institutions that will stand public and private discussion--they have not.
We will not have a law, or custom, or economy, which cannot be defended against the freest
inquiry. Such a rule would cut them level as a mowed meadow! They live in a crater, forever
dreading the signs of activity. They live in a powder magazine. No wonder they fear light and
fire. It is the plea of Wrong since the world began. Discussion would unseat the Czar; a free
press would dethrone the ignoble Napoleon; free speech would revolutionize Rome. What can be said that I did not already own said? The came around
all of this is dead, is a return to my house it is not in a few weeks, the divorce be pronounced,
and the child will be left to the father. Of course.
 A King that cannot keep
his seat before free speech ought to be unseated. "That's not to say, Herr von Briest That it as a
fever, I do not like. But we will get down again, then it must them to Switzerland or to Mentone.
Clean air and friendly impression that the Old forgot to make ... "

"Lethe Lethe."

"Yes, Lethe," smiled Wiesike.

"Too bad us old Swedes, Greeks, only the Words have left and not
also the source itself ... "

"Or at least to the recipe; waters are
now imitated. 

For the rest of us, especially German audience it was an invaluable benefit, in the moment we find an
excellent, long known dear lady, in the most delicate tones there on the Wing being, heard,
both down from the window in the only area of ​​the world to look and in the evening light of
the sun with less turn of the head of the big picture to survey, which left from the arch
of Septimius Severus, the Campo Vaccino along extended and the Temple of Peace, to figure out the
Coliseum to watch - by Minerva To leave in its wake one then the right eye turning, gliding
past the Arch of Titus in the labyrinth of the Palatine ruins, and through their gardening and wild
vegetation had decorated desert to get confused and stay.

(One in 1824 by Fries and Thuermer drawn and engraved northwestern uebersicht Rome, taken from
the tower of the Capitol, we ask to look over hiernaechst, it is some floors up and after the
recent excavations in focus, but in the evening light, and Shading, as we saw back then, and
indeed for the glowing color with their shaded-blue contrasts and all the magic that springs
from it, add in would be.)

Then we had to estimate at this time as lucky, the most glorious picture, which Meng has perhaps
ever painted, the portrait of Clement XIII. Rezzonico, of our patrons, the senator, as a nephew
to set this post to contemplate with calmness, the value of I Finally
a passage from the diary of our friend's reference:

"Among the portraits
painted by Mengs, where his art at the most efficient proven reliable,
is the portrait of Pope Rezzonico.



Now tell me whether there is any preaching of the Gospel to the slave, or whether there can
be, and he yet remain a slave? 

But alas! However, I was seeking out of it, I felt the most wonderful way, that my affection
for the Milanese had already decided quickly and forcefully enough, as is wont to go an idle heart,
the calm in smug confidence no fears, desires nothing, and the immediately now suddenly the most
desirable comes close. about seen it in such a moment not a danger to us under these flattering
trains threatened.

The next morning we found the three of us alone, and there are increased because the preponderance
on the side of the Milanese. She had the great advantage over their friend, that in their to submit
its comments a little face was remarkably Sames. She complained not neglected, but too anxious
education: "It teaches us not to write," she said, "because one fears, we would use the pen love letters,
they would not let us see if we will not need to concern ourselves with the prayer book, to
inform us in foreign languages, because no one will think, I would give all a question of can
in English. Mr Jenkins with my Brother, Mme Angelika, Mr. Zucchi, the men and Volpato Camuccini
'I often hear one another English talked with a feeling that the envy is similar: the extremely long and
newspapers there in front of me on the table, there are messages in it from around the world as
I see, and I do not know what they bring. "

"It is the more pity," I replied, "because the English can learn so easily; It would have to
take and comprehend in a short time. Let's do the same a try, "she I continue, I picked up
one of the endless English papers, which lay about frequently.

I quickly looked inside and found an article that a woman fell into the water, happy but rescued
and yours have been played. There were circumstances in the case that involved him and made
interesting, it remained doubtful whether they are in the Water crashed to seek death, and also which
of its admirers, the beneficiary or scorned ventured to their rescue. I pointed her the place
and asked them to attention to look at it. Then I translated it for the first all nouns and examined
them if they retain their meaning well. Very soon she looked over the position of these Main
- and basic words and made himself acquainted with the place they occupied in the periods had.
I then went over to the acting, moving, defining words and made now, as these the whole crowded,
comments on the most cheerful and catechized them so until she finally unsolicited whole body,
as if they were in Italian the papers read, which they could not afford without moving their
delicate nature. I'm not easily seen such a warm spiritual joy as she expressed by I spoke for
the insight into this new field a dearest thanks. She could hardly believe by saw the opportunity
to fulfill their ardent desire to see so close and already reached tentative.

The company had increased, and Angela had arrived, In a large covered
Panel had her put me on the right hand, my student was at the opposite
Side of the table and started to think for a moment, than any other
factors are the Tafelplaetze compliments to go around the table and
settle down next to me.

My serious Neighbor seemed to notice with some surprise, and were not required of the gaze a wise
woman to perceive at that here what would have to be pursued and that a zeither to dry rudeness
of the women's indelible friend probably even at last 've seen tame and caught surprised.

Externally, I held but was still pretty good, but an internal movement was probably rather manifested
by a certain embarrassment in the conversation between me my neighbors divided by I tender the
elderly, to maintain this time taciturn friend and invigorating those who seemed to still indulge
in the foreign language and in the state was the person who dazzled
with a time of rising light of the desired to to find not just in
the area knows a friendly quiet, rather negative participation sought
to appease.

 A Southern volcano in New-Hampshire, pouring forth
the lava of despotism in that incorrupt, and noble old fortress of liberty! What a College
to educate our future legislators! She speaks very honest with me, I did it my Opinion said've
given her my advice and merry to you when I'm with her. Man talking and lack of accident, if those
who have enough, it can not do and enjoy! She has an incredible woman and a really tremendous talent.
You have to see and appreciate, what she does, not what she leaves behind. How many artists work
hold down, expect if you will, what is missing!

And so, my friends, my Rome, the Roman, the art and artists is always known, and I see the situation,
they are close to me and of course, through live and work To - and Herwandeln. Each visit
is mere false notions. They would like me here get out of my silence and order, and out into
the world, I am true as best I can. Promise verzoegre, dodge, promised again and play the Italians
with the Italians. The Cardinal Secretary of State, Buoncompagni has even let me put it too close,
I will but avoid until mid September I'm going to the country. I shy away from the men and
Women remain an evil disease, I will even hurt when I see them go.

Rome, 23 August 1787

Your dear letter No. 24, I received the day before yesterday, just as I went to the Vatican,
and have on the go and in the Sistine Chapel, however - and again read whenever I rested of seeing
and paying attention. I can not express to you how much I wished to me did so only you had some idea
of ​​what a single and complete human host and make can, without having seen the Sistine Chapel,
one can not look to be vague To make what a man can. One hears and reads a lot of great and
brave people, but Here we are still very much alive over the head, before the eyes. I have
a lot with will entertain you and wish it would be anything on the leaf. You want to know about
me! As much could I say! Because I'm really umgeboren and renewed and completed. I feel that
together includes the sum of my forces, and still hope to do something. About landscape and
architecture I've been thinking seriously this time ago, even some try and see now that it also
wants to, even how far would be to take it.

Now I have modified the alpha and omega of all things known to us, the human figure, touched,
and I, and I say, "Lord, I will not let you bless me then, and should I lame me wrestle. "The
drawing is not done, and so I have to model myself back for determination and that seems to want.
At least I have come to a thought, to me much easier. It is simply a question whether, for fear of these things, they will ignore
and rub out of their creed every principle of human rights! "You are a child. Beautiful and poetic.
Those are ideas. The reality is different, and often it is good that instead of light and gives
a glimmer of darkness. "

Effi seemed to want to answer, but in that moment Wilke, and brought letters. The One was from
Kessin of Innstetten.

"Oh, Geert," said Effi, and while the letter put aside, she continued in a calm voice:

"But you will still allow that I put the wing obliquely into the room. This occurs me more than
to a chimney, the promised me Geert. And that picture of you, the alternative I then on an
easel, without you I can not be. Oh, how I am going to you crave, maybe on the trip already,
then certainly in Kessin. Apparently there is no Garrison, did not even have a staff doctor, and
lucky that it at least a seaside resort is. Cousin Briest, and because I will raise me, whose mother
and sister for ever Warnemünde go - well, I see really no reason why the love of relatives not also
one should conduct after Kessin out. Conduct, that sounds anyway so after the General Staff,
whereupon he, I think ambiert. And then he comes with natural and living with us. By the way
have Kessin, as I am told only the other day who, quite a large steamer, that twice over the
week goes to Sweden.

And the ship is then ball (they have because of course music), and
he dances very well ... "

"Who?"

"Well, Scrooge."

"I thought you meant Innstetten. But in any case it is time to finally know what he writes ...
You've got the letter in his pocket. "

That's right. I'd almost forgotten. "And she opened the letter and glanced at him.

"Well, Effi, not a word?

You radiate not and do not even laugh, and he writes always so gay and entertainment and not
as a father. "

"I would also forbid me. He has his age and I have my youth. And I would threaten him with your
fingers and say: '. Geert wonder what is better' "And then would He will answer you: 'What have
you, Effi, which is the better. " For he is not only a man of the finest forms, it is also fair
and intelligent, and know very well which means youth. He always says the right and down on the
young people, and if he remains in the marriage, you shall lead her a model marriage. "
"Yes, I think so, Mama. But can you imagine you, and I am almost
ashamed to to say, I'm not so much for what they call a model marriage.
"

"It's just like you. And now tell me, what are you really? "

"I
am ... Now, I am for same and equal, and of course, for tenderness
and love. And if it tenderness and love can not be, because love as
Papa says, but only a Fiddlesticks is (I think not), well, then I
am for richness and a fine House, a very elegant, where Prince Friedrich
Karl comes to hunting the rut, or grouse, or where the old imperial
drives up and for every lady, even for the young, a gracious word
added. 

Long she sat on the little rocking chair beside the dresser, rocking softly back and forth and
looked dull down before him. Most recently, she jumped up, sighed a few times, took their writing
folder moved to the lamp and began a vigorous resolve various Correspondence she had received in
recent days to read carefully. She took on a blank sheet, put it to himself and looked down nachdenksam
on. Still once they factored in the blotter different series of numbers and began resolutely
the letter to write. But she had to twice take a new leaf and start fresh, because large tears
fell on the paper and went out the writing. Finally she brought her Attachment with an air
of grim determination yet about. She went out and opened the front door. Above, Rolf leaned out
the window.

"Who's there?"

"I will only bring a letter to the box," said Martha, and ran hurriedly,
as follow they, in the meantime also occurred darkness.

       

* * * * *

Rolfers won the boys themselves off from the station. The bright happy jumped off the train, overflowing
with all good news. In Berlin, Hamburg and flew the banners of victory from the rooftops,
because Lemberg had fallen, and now rushed to the armies of Warsaw - And the exhibition - The professor
should not only believe that the people for war sake, no interest would have more of Art - Had urged
the people - the National Gallery bought the large seascape, with the heavy air of the gray
and the dark Water - and it had been fine that already stood at the opening of the exhibition it
have: Sold. And the Kunsthalle in Hamburg will also buy an image, it is still uncertain which
one. Gebhardt and it would have been telegraphed, but he would grant
him the joy, to report it.

And he was fond of him - and the young woman also Gebhardt Gebhardt ... Not to say - But he
already knew whom he owed that.

The evening was spent in the happy reports of the excited boy. They sat on the Porch. Rolf had asked
Martha, eating a little to make festive, and had Cut roses, put them on the table. Most recently,
he brought a bottle of champagne from the basement and poured it into the beautiful slender crystal goblets,
which otherwise in the ancient Glass cabinet stood. Richard was quite
wild with delight. Martha shook her head and said, Rolfers spoil the
boy, but she was overruled. The professor was funny as a College Student
- And the two concocted all sorts of jokes and purrs from each other.
Northern ideas must become American, or Southern ideas must become American, before there will
be peace. They can be in Cavaceppi near in all its grandeur and beauty . See Sorry that the
best time by nearly a straw and weather thick smooth Surface of the face is lost and looks
near as treated by smallpox nauseous.

Today was the funeral of Cardinal Visconti in the Church of St. Carlo. As the papal Chapel of
the High Mass sung, we went to wash your ears tomorrow right. It
was a requiem sung for two sopranos, the strangest thing, what you
may hear.
The reason of our long agitation is, not that restless Abolitionists are abroad, that ministers
will meddle with improper themes, that parties are disregardful of the country's interest. I have no plans. Really and truly, I would like to
sit here and wait until I drop dead. That would be my favorite so. And then would people still
think I would have loved as much as the old woman and a faithful dog would have to her grave,
and would not weggewollt since died. But this is wrong, you die for such Old you do not, I want
to die just because I can not live. "

"I want to ask you something, Roswitha. If you are what you 'love
child' so called? Clear the place. Well forgive me, when I first read this passage ...

Postscript.

The newspaper was interesting enough and just fine. I cut the blue painted body out and put
it in these lines. You see from this that I I'm not mistaken. Who may be just the Crampas?

It's
unbelievable - only sign yourself notes and letters and then also
that of other Retain!

Why there are stoves and fireplaces? As long as at least as of this nonsense still duel exists,
may not happen like; an upcoming sex can write this letter Passion (Because then become safe)
may be released. But so far we are still far not.

