There was a state reception, with Admiral Azumbaga walking in front in scarlet and brocade,
followed by his captains, Columbus among them, dressed in gorgeous tunics and cloaks with golden
collars and, well hidden beneath their finery, good serviceable cuirasses.  The banner of Portugal
was ceremoniously unfurled and dis played from the top of a tall tree.  An altar was erected
and consecrated by the chaplain to the expedition, and a mass was sung for the repose of the
soul of Prince Henry.  The Portugal contingent were then met by Caramansa, the king of the
country, who came, surrounded by a great guard of blacks armed with assegais, their bodies
scantily decorated with monkey fur and palm leaves.  The black monarch must have presented
a handsome appearance, for his arms and legs were decked with gold bracelets and rings, he
had a kind of dog-collar fitted with bells round his neck, and some pieces of gold were daintily
twisted into his beard.  With these aids to diplomacy, and doubtless also with the help of
a dram or two of spirits or of the wine of Oporto, the treaty was soon concluded, and a very
shrewd stroke of business accomplished for the King of Portugal; for it gave him the sole right
of exchanging gaudy rubbish from Portugal for the precious gold of Ethiopia.  When the contents
of the two freight-ships had been unloaded they were beached and broken up by the orders of
King John, who wished it to be thought that they had been destroyed in the whirlpools of that
dangerous sea, and that the navigation of those rough waters was only safe for the caravels
of the Navy.  The fort was built in twenty days, and the expedition returned, laden with gold
and ivory; Admiral Azumbaga remained behind in command of the garrison.

This voyage, which was a bold and adventurous one for the time, may be regarded as the first
recognition of Columbus as a man of importance, for the expedition was manned and commanded
by picked men; so it was for all reasons a very fortunate one for him, although the possession
of the dangerous secret as to the whereabouts of this valuable territory might have proved
to be not very convenient to him in the future.

Columbus went back to Porto Santo with his ambitions thoroughly kindled. He had been given
a definite command in the Portuguese Navy; he had been sailing with a fleet; he had been down
to the mysterious coast of Africa; he had been trafficking with strange tribes; he had been
engaged in a difficult piece of navigation such as he loved; and on the long dreamy days of
the voyage home, the caravels furrowing the blue Atlantic before the steady trade-wind, he
determined that he would find some way of putting his knowledge to use, and of earning distinction
for himself. Living, as he had been lately, in Atlantic seaports overlooking the western ocean
it is certain that the idea of discovering something in that direction occupied him more and
more.  What it was that he was to discover was probably very vague in his mind, and was likely
not designated by any name more exact than "lands."  In after years he tried to show that it
was a logical and scientific deduction which led him to go and seek the eastern shore of the
Indian continent by sailing west; but we may be almost certain that at this time he thought
of no such thing.  He had no exact scientific knowledge at this date.  His map making had taught
him something, and naturally he had kept his ears open, and knew all the gossip and hearsay
about the islands of the West; and there gradually grew in his mind the intuition or conviction--I
refuse to call it an opinion--that, over that blue verge of the West, there was land to be
found.