"I warrant your honour go back again if you like it," said the dame: "unless you think rather
of taking a pretty well-dowered English lady, as some of your countryfolk have done. I assure
you, some of the best of the city have married Scotsmen. There was Lady Trebleplumb, Sir Thomas
Trebleplumb the great Turkey merchant's widow, married Sir Awley Macauley, whom your honour
knows, doubtless; and pretty Mistress Doublefee, old Sergeant Doublefee's daughter, jumped
out of window, and was married at May-fair to a Scotsman with a hard name; and old Pitchpost
the timber merchant's daughters did little better, for they married two Irishmen; and when
folks jeer me about having a Scotsman for lodger, meaning your honour, I tell them they are
afraid of their daughters and their mistresses; and sure I have a right to stand up for the
Scots, since John Christie is half a Scotsman, and a thriving man, and a good husband, though
there is a score of years between us; and so I would have your honour cast care away, and mend
your breakfast with a morsel and a draught."

"At a word, my kind hostess, I cannot," said Olifaunt; "I am anxious about this knave of mine,
who has been so long absent in this dangerous town of yours."

It may be noticed in passing that Dame Nelly's ordinary mode of consolation was to disprove
the existence of any cause for distress; and she is said to have carried this so far as to
comfort a neighbour, who had lost her husband, with the assurance that the dear defunct would
be better to-morrow, which perhaps might not have proved an appropriate, even if it had been
a possible, mode of relief.

On this occasion she denied stoutly that Richie had been absent altogether twenty hours; and
as for people being killed in the streets of London, to be sure two men had been found in Tower-ditch
last week, but that was far to the east, and the other poor man that had his throat cut in
the fields, had met his mishap near by Islington; and he that was stabbed by the young Templar
in a drunken frolic, by Saint Clement's in the Strand, was an Irishman. All which evidence
she produced to show that none of these casualties had occurred in a case exactly parallel
with that of Richie, a Scotsman, and on his return from Westminster.

"My better comfort is, my good dame," answered Olifaunt, "that the lad is no brawler or quarreller,
unless strongly urged, and that he has nothing valuable about him to any one but me."

"Your honour speaks very well," retorted the inexhaustible hostess, who protracted her task
of taking away, and putting to rights, in order that she might prolong her gossip. "I'll uphold
Master Moniplies to be neither reveller nor brawler, for if he liked such things, he might
be visiting and junketing with the young folks about here in the neighbourhood, and he never
dreams of it; and when I asked the young man to go as far as my gossip's, Dame Drinkwater,
to taste a glass of aniseed, and a bit of the groaning cheese,--for Dame Drinkwater has had
twins, as I told your honour, sir,--and I meant it quite civilly to the young man, but he chose
to sit and keep house with John Christie; and I dare say there is a score of years between
them, for your honour's servant looks scarce much older than I am. I wonder what they could
have to say to each other. I asked John Christie, but he bid me go to sleep."

"If he comes not soon," said his master, "I will thank you to tell me what magistrate I can
address myself to; for besides my anxiety for the poor fellow's safety, he has papers of importance
about him."

