However, one of the castaways, following the impulse of his heart, immediately threw himself
into the current, without consulting his companions, without saying a single word. It was Neb.
He was in haste to be on the other side, and to climb towards the north. It had been impossible
to hold him back. Pencroft called him in vain. The reporter prepared to follow him, but Pencroft
stopped him. "Do you want to cross the channel?" he asked. "Yes," replied Spilett. "All right!"
said the seaman; "wait a bit; Neb is well able to carry help to his master. If we venture into
the channel, we risk being carried into the open sea by the current, which is running very
strong; but, if I'm not wrong, it is ebbing. See, the tide is going down over the sand. Let
us have patience, and at low water it is possible we may find a fordable passage." "You are
right," replied the reporter, "we will not separate more than we can help."

During this time Neb was struggling vigorously against the current. He was crossing in an oblique
direction. His black shoulders could be seen emerging at each stroke. He was carried down very
quickly, but he also made way towards the shore. It took more than half an hour to cross from
the islet to the land, and he reached the shore several hundred feet from the place which was
opposite to the point from which he had started.

Landing at the foot of a high wall of granite, he shook himself vigorously; and then, setting
off running, soon disappeared behind a rocky point, which projected to nearly the height of
the northern extremity of the islet.

Neb's companions had watched his daring attempt with painful anxiety, and when he was out of
sight, they fixed their attention on the land where their hope of safety lay, while eating
some shell-fish with which the sand was strewn. It was a wretched repast, but still it was
better than nothing. The opposite coast formed one vast bay, terminating on the south by a
very sharp point, which was destitute of all vegetation, and was of a very wild aspect. This
point abutted on the shore in a grotesque outline of high granite rocks. Towards the north,
on the contrary, the bay widened, and a more rounded coast appeared, trending from the southwest
to the northeast, and terminating in a slender cape. The distance between these two extremities,
which made the bow of the bay, was about eight miles. Half a mile from the shore rose the islet,
which somewhat resembled the carcass of a gigantic whale. Its extreme breadth was not more
than a quarter of a mile.

Opposite the islet, the beach consisted first of sand, covered with black stones, which were
now appearing little by little above the retreating tide. The second level was separated by
a perpendicular granite cliff, terminated at the top by an unequal edge at a height of at least
300 feet. It continued thus for a length of three miles, ending suddenly on the right with
a precipice which looked as if cut by the hand of man. On the left, above the promontory, this
irregular and jagged cliff descended by a long slope of conglomerated rocks till it mingled
with the ground of the southern point. On the upper plateau of the coast not a tree appeared.
It was a flat tableland like that above Cape Town at the Cape of Good Hope, but of reduced
proportions; at least so it appeared seen from the islet. However, verdure was not wanting
to the right beyond the precipice. They could easily distinguish a confused mass of great trees,
which extended beyond the limits of their view. This verdure relieved the eye, so long wearied
by the continued ranges of granite. Lastly, beyond and above the plateau, in a northwesterly
direction and at a distance of at least seven miles, glittered a white summit which reflected
the sun's rays. It was that of a lofty mountain, capped with snow.

The question could not at present be decided whether this land formed an island, or whether
it belonged to a continent. But on beholding the convulsed masses heaped up on the left, no
geologist would have hesitated to give them a volcanic origin, for they were unquestionably
the work of subterranean convulsions.

Gideon Spilett, Pencroft, and Herbert attentively examined this land, on which they might perhaps
have to live many long years; on which indeed they might even die, should it be out of the
usual track of vessels, as was likely to be the case.

"Well," asked Herbert, "what do you say, Pencroft?"

"There is some good and some bad, as in everything," replied the sailor. "We shall see. But
now the ebb is evidently making. In three hours we will attempt the passage, and once on the
other side, we will try to get out of this scrape, and I hope may find the captain." Pencroft
was not wrong in his anticipations. Three hours later at low tide, the greater part of the
sand forming the bed of the channel was uncovered. Between the islet and the coast there only
remained a narrow channel which would no doubt be easy to cross.

About ten o'clock, Gideon Spilett and his companions stripped themselves of their clothes,
which they placed in bundles on their heads, and then ventured into the water, which was not
more than five feet deep. Herbert, for whom it was too deep, swam like a fish, and got through
capitally. All three arrived without difficulty on the opposite shore. Quickly drying themselves
in the sun, they put on their clothes, which they had preserved from contact with the water,
and sat down to take counsel together what to do next.

Chapter 4

All at once the reporter sprang up, and telling the sailor that he would rejoin them at that
same place, he climbed the cliff in the direction which the Negro Neb had taken a few hours
before. Anxiety hastened his steps, for he longed to obtain news of his friend, and he soon
disappeared round an angle of the cliff. Herbert wished to accompany him.

"Stop here, my boy," said the sailor; "we have to prepare an encampment, and to try and find
rather better grub than these shell-fish. Our friends will want something when they come back.
There is work for everybody."

"I am ready," replied Herbert.

"All right," said the sailor; "that will do. We must set about it regularly. We are tired,
cold, and hungry; therefore we must have shelter, fire, and food. There is wood in the forest,
and eggs in nests; we have only to find a house."

"Very well," returned Herbert, "I will look for a cave among the rocks, and I shall be sure
to discover some hole into which we can creep."

"All right," said Pencroft; "go on, my boy."

They both walked to the foot of the enormous wall over the beach, far from which the tide had
now retreated; but instead of going towards the north, they went southward. Pencroft had remarked,
several hundred feet from the place at which they landed, a narrow cutting, out of which he
thought a river or stream might issue. Now, on the one hand it was important to settle themselves
in the neighborhood of a good stream of water, and on the other it was possible that the current
had thrown Cyrus Harding on the shore there.

The cliff, as has been said, rose to a height of three hundred feet, but the mass was unbroken
throughout, and even at its base, scarcely washed by the sea, it did not offer the smallest
fissure which would serve as a dwelling. It was a perpendicular wall of very hard granite,
which even the waves had not worn away. Towards the summit fluttered myriads of sea-fowl, and
especially those of the web-footed species with long, flat, pointed beaks--a clamorous tribe,
bold in the presence of man, who probably for the first time thus invaded their domains. Pencroft
recognized the skua and other gulls among them, the voracious little sea-mew, which in great
numbers nestled in the crevices of the granite. A shot fired among this swarm would have killed
a great number, but to fire a shot a gun was needed, and neither Pencroft nor Herbert had one;
besides this, gulls and sea-mews are scarcely eatable, and even their eggs have a detestable
taste. However, Herbert, who had gone forward a little more to the left, soon came upon rocks
covered with sea-weed, which, some hours later, would be hidden by the high tide. On these
rocks, in the midst of slippery wrack, abounded bivalve shell-fish, not to be despised by starving
people. Herbert called Pencroft, who ran up hastily.

"Here are mussels!" cried the sailor; "these will do instead of eggs!"

"They are not mussels," replied Herbert, who was attentively examining the molluscs attached
to the rocks; "they are lithodomes."

"Are they good to eat?" asked Pencroft.

"Perfectly so."

"Then let us eat some lithodomes."

The sailor could rely upon Herbert; the young boy was well up in natural history, and always
had had quite a passion for the science. His father had encouraged him in it, by letting him
attend the lectures of the best professors in Boston, who were very fond of the intelligent,
industrious lad. And his turn for natural history was, more than once in the course of time,
of great use, and he was not mistaken in this instance. These lithodomes were oblong shells,
suspended in clusters and adhering very tightly to the rocks. They belong to that species of
molluscous perforators which excavate holes in the hardest stone; their shell is rounded at
both ends, a feature which is not remarked in the common mussel.

Pencroft and Herbert made a good meal of the lithodomes, which were then half opened to the
sun. They ate them as oysters, and as they had a strong peppery taste, they were palatable
without condiments of any sort.

Their hunger was thus appeased for the time, but not their thirst, which increased after eating
these naturally-spiced molluscs. They had then to find fresh water, and it was not likely that
it would be wanting in such a capriciously uneven region. Pencroft and Herbert, after having
taken the precaution of collecting an ample supply of lithodomes, with which they filled their
pockets and handkerchiefs, regained the foot of the cliff.

Two hundred paces farther they arrived at the cutting, through which, as Pencroft had guessed,
ran a stream of water, whether fresh or not was to be ascertained. At this place the wall appeared
to have been separated by some violent subterranean force. At its base was hollowed out a little
creek, the farthest part of which formed a tolerably sharp angle. The watercourse at that part
measured one hundred feet in breadth, and its two banks on each side were scarcely twenty feet
high. The river became strong almost directly between the two walls of granite, which began
to sink above the mouth; it then suddenly turned and disappeared beneath a wood of stunted
trees half a mile off.

"Here is the water, and yonder is the wood we require!" said Pencroft. "Well, Herbert, now
we only want the house."

The water of the river was limpid. The sailor ascertained that at this time--that is to say,
at low tide, when the rising floods did not reach it--it was sweet. This important point established,
Herbert looked for some cavity which would serve them as a retreat, but in vain; everywhere
the wall appeared smooth, plain, and perpendicular.

However, at the mouth of the watercourse and above the reach of the high tide, the convulsions
of nature had formed, not a grotto, but a pile of enormous rocks, such as are often met with
in granite countries and which bear the name of "Chimneys."

Pencroft and Herbert penetrated quite far in among the rocks, by sandy passages in which light
was not wanting, for it entered through the openings which were left between the blocks, of
which some were only sustained by a miracle of equilibrium; but with the light came also air--a
regular corridor-gale--and with the wind the sharp cold from the exterior. However, the sailor
thought that by stopping-up some of the openings with a mixture of stones and sand, the Chimneys
could be rendered habitable. Their geometrical plan represented the typographical sign "&,"
which signifies "et cetera" abridged, but by isolating the upper mouth of the sign, through
which the south and west winds blew so strongly, they could succeed in making the lower part
of use.

"Here's our work," said Pencroft, "and if we ever see Captain Harding again, he will know how
to make something of this labyrinth."

"We shall see him again, Pencroft," cried Herbert, "and when he returns he must find a tolerable
dwelling here. It will be so, if we can make a fireplace in the left passage and keep an opening
for the smoke."

"So we can, my boy," replied the sailor, "and these Chimneys will serve our turn. Let us set
to work, but first come and get a store of fuel. I think some branches will be very useful
in stopping up these openings, through which the wind shrieks like so many fiends."

Herbert and Pencroft left the Chimneys, and, turning the angle, they began to climb the left
bank of the river. The current here was quite rapid, and drifted down some dead wood. The rising
tide--and it could already be perceived--must drive it back with force to a considerable distance.
The sailor then thought that they could utilize this ebb and flow for the transport of heavy
objects.

After having walked for a quarter of an hour, the sailor and the boy arrived at the angle which
the river made in turning towards the left. From this point its course was pursued through
a forest of magnificent trees. These trees still retained their verdure, notwithstanding the
advanced season, for they belonged to the family of "coniferae," which is spread over all the
regions of the globe, from northern climates to the tropics. The young naturalist recognized
especially the "deedara," which are very numerous in the Himalayan zone, and which spread around
them a most agreeable odor. Between these beautiful trees sprang up clusters of firs, whose
opaque open parasol boughs spread wide around. Among the long grass, Pencroft felt that his
feet were crushing dry branches which crackled like fireworks.

"Well, my boy," said he to Herbert, "if I don't know the name of these trees, at any rate I
reckon that we may call them 'burning wood,' and just now that's the chief thing we want."

"Let us get a supply," replied Herbert, who immediately set to work.

The collection was easily made. It was not even necessary to lop the trees, for enormous quantities
of dead wood were lying at their feet; but if fuel was not wanting, the means of transporting
it was not yet found. The wood, being very dry, would burn rapidly; it was therefore necessary
to carry to the Chimneys a considerable quantity, and the loads of two men would not be sufficient.
Herbert remarked this.

"Well, my boy," replied the sailor, "there must be some way of carrying this wood; there is
always a way of doing everything. If we had a cart or a boat, it would be easy enough."

"But we have the river," said Herbert.

"Right," replied Pencroft; "the river will be to us like a road which carries of itself, and
rafts have not been invented for nothing."

"Only," observed Herbert, "at this moment our road is going the wrong way, for the tide is rising!"

"We shall be all right if we wait till it ebbs," replied the sailor, "and then we will trust
it to carry our fuel to the Chimneys. Let us get the raft ready."

The sailor, followed by Herbert, directed his steps towards the river. They both carried, each
in proportion to his strength, a load of wood bound in fagots. They found on the bank also
a great quantity of dead branches in the midst of grass, among which the foot of man had probably
never before trod. Pencroft began directly to make his raft. In a kind of little bay, created
by a point of the shore which broke the current, the sailor and the lad placed some good-sized
pieces of wood, which they had fastened together with dry creepers. A raft was thus formed,
on which they stacked all they had collected, sufficient, indeed, to have loaded at least twenty
men. In an hour the work was finished, and the raft moored to the bank, awaited the turning
of the tide.

There were still several hours to be occupied, and with one consent Pencroft and Herbert resolved
to gain the upper plateau, so as to have a more extended view of the surrounding country.

Exactly two hundred feet behind the angle formed by the river, the wall, terminated by a fall
of rocks, died away in a gentle slope to the edge of the forest. It was a natural staircase.
Herbert and the sailor began their ascent; thanks to the vigor of their muscles they reached
the summit in a few minutes; and proceeded to the point above the mouth of the river.

On attaining it, their first look was cast upon the ocean which not long before they had traversed
in such a terrible condition. They observed, with emotion, all that part to the north of the
coast on which the catastrophe had taken place. It was there that Cyrus Harding had disappeared.
They looked to see if some portion of their balloon, to which a man might possibly cling, yet
existed. Nothing! The sea was but one vast watery desert. As to the coast, it was solitary
also. Neither the reporter nor Neb could be anywhere seen. But it was possible that at this
time they were both too far away to be perceived.

"Something tells me," cried Herbert, "that a man as energetic as Captain Harding would not
let himself be drowned like other people. He must have reached some point of the shore; don't
you think so, Pencroft?"

The sailor shook his head sadly. He little expected ever to see Cyrus Harding again; but wishing
to leave some hope to Herbert: "Doubtless, doubtless," said he; "our engineer is a man who
would get out of a scrape to which any one else would yield."

In the meantime he examined the coast with great attention. Stretched out below them was the
sandy shore, bounded on the right of the river's mouth by lines of breakers. The rocks which
were visible appeared like amphibious monsters reposing in the surf. Beyond the reef, the sea
sparkled beneath the sun's rays. To the south a sharp point closed the horizon, and it could
not be seen if the land was prolonged in that direction, or if it ran southeast and southwest,
which would have made this coast a very long peninsula. At the northern extremity of the bay
the outline of the shore was continued to a great distance in a wider curve. There the shore
was low, flat, without cliffs, and with great banks of sand, which the tide left uncovered.
Pencroft and Herbert then returned towards the west. Their attention was first arrested by
the snow-topped mountain which rose at a distance of six or seven miles. From its first declivities
to within two miles of the coast were spread vast masses of wood, relieved by large green patches,
caused by the presence of evergreen trees. Then, from the edge of this forest to the shore
extended a plain, scattered irregularly with groups of trees. Here and there on the left sparkled
through glades the waters of the little river; they could trace its winding course back towards
the spurs of the mountain, among which it seemed to spring. At the point where the sailor had
left his raft of wood, it began to run between the two high granite walls; but if on the left
bank the wall remained clear and abrupt, on the right bank, on the contrary, it sank gradually,
the massive sides changed to isolated rocks, the rocks to stones, the stones to shingle running
to the extremity of the point.

"Are we on an island?" murmured the sailor.

"At any rate, it seems to be big enough," replied the lad.

"An island, ever so big, is an island all the same!" said Pencroft.

But this important question could not yet be answered. A more perfect survey had to be made
to settle the point. As to the land itself, island or continent, it appeared fertile, agreeable
in its aspect, and varied in its productions.

"This is satisfactory," observed Pencroft; "and in our misfortune, we must thank Providence
for it."

"God be praised!" responded Herbert, whose pious heart was full of gratitude to the Author
of all things.

Pencroft and Herbert examined for some time the country on which they had been cast; but it
was difficult to guess after so hasty an inspection what the future had in store for them.

They then returned, following the southern crest of the granite platform, bordered by a long
fringe of jagged rocks, of the most whimsical shapes. Some hundreds of birds lived there nestled
in the holes of the stone; Herbert, jumping over the rocks, startled a whole flock of these
winged creatures.

"Oh!" cried he, "those are not gulls nor sea-mews!"

"What are they then?" asked Pencroft.

"Upon my word, one would say they were pigeons!"

"Just so, but these are wild or rock pigeons. I recognize them by the double band of black
on the wing, by the white tail, and by their slate-colored plumage. But if the rock-pigeon
is good to eat, its eggs must be excellent, and we will soon see how many they may have left
in their nests!"

"We will not give them time to hatch, unless it is in the shape of an omelet!" replied Pencroft
merrily.

"But what will you make your omelet in?" asked Herbert; "in your hat?"

"Well!" replied the sailor, "I am not quite conjuror enough for that; we must come down to
eggs in the shell, my boy, and I will undertake to despatch the hardest!"

Pencroft and Herbert attentively examined the cavities in the granite, and they really found
eggs in some of the hollows. A few dozen being collected, were packed in the sailor's handkerchief,
and as the time when the tide would be full was approaching, Pencroft and Herbert began to
redescend towards the watercourse. When they arrived there, it was an hour after midday. The
tide had already turned. They must now avail themselves of the ebb to take the wood to the
mouth. Pencroft did not intend to let the raft go away in the current without guidance, neither
did he mean to embark on it himself to steer it. But a sailor is never at a loss when there
is a question of cables or ropes, and Pencroft rapidly twisted a cord, a few fathoms long,
made of dry creepers. This vegetable cable was fastened to the after-part of the raft, and
the sailor held it in his hand while Herbert, pushing off the raft with a long pole, kept it
in the current. This succeeded capitally. The enormous load of wood drifted down the current.
The bank was very equal; there was no fear that the raft would run aground, and before two
o'clock they arrived at the river's mouth, a few paces from the Chimneys.

Chapter 5

Pencroft's first care, after unloading the raft, was to render the cave habitable by stopping
up all the holes which made it draughty. Sand, stones, twisted branches, wet clay, closed up
the galleries open to the south winds. One narrow and winding opening at the side was kept,
to lead out the smoke and to make the fire draw. The cave was thus divided into three or four
rooms, if such dark dens with which a donkey would scarcely have been contented deserved the
name. But they were dry, and there was space to stand upright, at least in the principal room,
which occupied the center. The floor was covered with fine sand, and taking all in all they
were well pleased with it for want of a better.

"Perhaps," said Herbert, while he and Pencroft were working, "our companions have found a superior
place to ours."

"Very likely," replied the seaman; "but, as we don't know, we must work all the same. Better
to have two strings to one's bow than no string at all!"

"Oh!" exclaimed Herbert, "how jolly it will be if they were to find Captain Harding and were
to bring him back with them!"

"Yes, indeed!" said Pencroft, "that was a man of the right sort."

"Was!" exclaimed Herbert, "do you despair of ever seeing him again?"

"God forbid!" replied the sailor. Their work was soon done, and Pencroft declared himself very
well satisfied.

"Now," said he, "our friends can come back when they like. They will find a good enough shelter."

They now had only to make a fireplace and to prepare the supper--an easy task. Large flat stones
were placed on the ground at the opening of the narrow passage which had been kept. This, if
the smoke did not take the heat out with it, would be enough to maintain an equal temperature
inside. Their wood was stowed away in one of the rooms, and the sailor laid in the fireplace
some logs and brushwood. The seaman was busy with this, when Herbert asked him if he had any
matches.

"Certainly," replied Pencroft, "and I may say happily, for without matches or tinder we should
be in a fix."

"Still we might get fire as the savages do," replied Herbert, "by rubbing two bits of dry stick
one against the other."

"All right; try, my boy, and let's see if you can do anything besides exercising your arms."

"Well, it's a very simple proceeding, and much used in the islands of the Pacific."

"I don't deny it," replied Pencroft, "but the savages must know how to do it or employ a peculiar
wood, for more than once I have tried to get fire in that way, but I could never manage it.
I must say I prefer matches. By the bye, where are my matches?"

Pencroft searched in his waistcoat for the box, which was always there, for he was a confirmed
smoker. He could not find it; he rummaged the pockets of his trousers, but, to his horror,
he could nowhere discover the box.

"Here's a go!" said he, looking at Herbert. "The box must have fallen out of my pocket and
got lost! Surely, Herbert, you must have something--a tinder-box--anything that can possibly
make fire!"

"No, I haven't, Pencroft."

The sailor rushed out, followed by the boy. On the sand, among the rocks, near the river's
bank, they both searched carefully, but in vain. The box was of copper, and therefore would
have been easily seen.

"Pencroft," asked Herbert, "didn't you throw it out of the car?"

"I knew better than that," replied the sailor; "but such a small article could easily disappear
in the tumbling about we have gone through. I would rather even have lost my pipe! Confound
the box! Where can it be?"

"Look here, the tide is going down," said Herbert; "let's run to the place where we landed."

It was scarcely probable that they would find the box, which the waves had rolled about among
the pebbles, at high tide, but it was as well to try. Herbert and Pencroft walked rapidly to
the point where they had landed the day before, about two hundred feet from the cave. They
hunted there, among the shingle, in the clefts of the rocks, but found nothing. If the box
had fallen at this place it must have been swept away by the waves. As the sea went down, they
searched every little crevice with no result. It was a grave loss in their circumstances, and
for the time irreparable. Pencroft could not hide his vexation; he looked very anxious, but
said not a word. Herbert tried to console him by observing, that if they had found the matches,
they would, very likely, have been wetted by the sea and useless.

"No, my boy," replied the sailor; "they were in a copper box which shut very tightly; and now
what are we to do?"

"We shall certainly find some way of making a fire," said Herbert. "Captain Harding or Mr.
Spilett will not be without them."

"Yes," replied Pencroft; "but in the meantime we are without fire, and our companions will
find but a sorry repast on their return."

"But," said Herbert quickly, "do you think it possible that they have no tinder or matches?"

"I doubt it," replied the sailor, shaking his head, "for neither Neb nor Captain Harding smoke,
and I believe that Mr. Spilett would rather keep his note-book than his match-box."

Herbert did not reply. The loss of the box was certainly to be regretted, but the boy was still
sure of procuring fire in some way or other. Pencroft, more experienced, did not think so,
although he was not a man to trouble himself about a small or great grievance. At any rate,
there was only one thing to be done--to await the return of Neb and the reporter; but they
must give up the feast of hard eggs which they had meant to prepare, and a meal of raw flesh
was not an agreeable prospect either for themselves or for the others.

Before returning to the cave, the sailor and Herbert, in the event of fire being positively
unattainable, collected some more shell-fish, and then silently retraced their steps to their
dwelling.

Pencroft, his eyes fixed on the ground, still looked for his box. He even climbed up the left
bank of the river from its mouth to the angle where the raft had been moored. He returned to
the plateau, went over it in every direction, searched among the high grass on the border of
the forest, all in vain.

It was five in the evening when he and Herbert re-entered the cave. It is useless to say that
the darkest corners of the passages were ransacked before they were obliged to give it up in
despair. Towards six o'clock, when the sun was disappearing behind the high lands of the west,
Herbert, who was walking up and down on the strand, signalized the return of Neb and Spilett.

They were returning alone!... The boy's heart sank; the sailor had not been deceived in his
forebodings; the engineer, Cyrus Harding, had not been found!

The reporter, on his arrival, sat down on a rock, without saying anything. Exhausted with fatigue,
dying of hunger, he had not strength to utter a word.

As to Neb, his red eyes showed how he had cried, and the tears which he could not restrain
told too clearly that he had lost all hope.

The reporter recounted all that they had done in their attempt to recover Cyrus Harding. He
and Neb had surveyed the coast for a distance of eight miles and consequently much beyond the
place where the balloon had fallen the last time but one, a fall which was followed by the
disappearance of the engineer and the dog Top. The shore was solitary; not a vestige of a mark.
Not even a pebble recently displaced; not a trace on the sand; not a human footstep on all
that part of the beach. It was clear that that portion of the shore had never been visited
by a human being. The sea was as deserted as the land, and it was there, a few hundred feet
from the coast, that the engineer must have found a tomb.

As Spilett ended his account, Neb jumped up, exclaiming in a voice which showed how hope struggled
within him, "No! he is not dead! he can't be dead! It might happen to any one else, but never
to him! He could get out of anything!" Then his strength forsaking him, "Oh! I can do no more!"
he murmured.

"Neb," said Herbert, running to him, "we will find him! God will give him back to us! But in
the meantime you are hungry, and you must eat something."

So saying, he offered the poor Negro a few handfuls of shell-fish, which was indeed wretched
and insufficient food. Neb had not eaten anything for several hours, but he refused them. He
could not, would not live without his master.

As to Gideon Spilett, he devoured the shell-fish, then he laid himself down on the sand, at
the foot of a rock. He was very weak, but calm. Herbert went up to him, and taking his hand,
"Sir," said he, "we have found a shelter which will be better than lying here. Night is advancing.
Come and rest! To-morrow we will search farther."

The reporter got up, and guided by the boy went towards the cave. On the way, Pencroft asked
him in the most natural tone, if by chance he happened to have a match or two.

The reporter stopped, felt in his pockets, but finding nothing said, "I had some, but I must
have thrown them away."

The seaman then put the same question to Neb and received the same answer.

"Confound it!" exclaimed the sailor.

The reporter heard him and seizing his arm, "Have you no matches?" he asked.

"Not one, and no fire in consequence."

"Ah!" cried Neb, "if my master was here, he would know what to do!"

The four castaways remained motionless, looking uneasily at each other. Herbert was the first
to break the silence by saying, "Mr. Spilett, you are a smoker and always have matches about
you; perhaps you haven't looked well, try again, a single match will be enough!"

The reporter hunted again in the pockets of his trousers, waistcoat, and great-coat, and at
last to Pencroft's great joy, no less to his extreme surprise, he felt a tiny piece of wood
entangled in the lining of his waistcoat. He seized it with his fingers through the stuff,
but he could not get it out. If this was a match and a single one, it was of great importance
not to rub off the phosphorus.

"Will you let me try?" said the boy, and very cleverly, without breaking it, he managed to
draw out the wretched yet precious little bit of wood which was of such great importance to
these poor men. It was unused.

"Hurrah!" cried Pencroft; "it is as good as having a whole cargo!" He took the match, and,
followed by his companions, entered the cave.

This small piece of wood, of which so many in an inhabited country are wasted with indifference
and are of no value, must here be used with the greatest caution.

The sailor first made sure that it was quite dry; that done, "We must have some paper," said he.

"Here," replied Spilett, after some hesitation tearing a leaf out of his note-book.

Pencroft took the piece of paper which the reporter held out to him, and knelt down before
the fireplace. Some handfuls of grass, leaves, and dry moss were placed under the fagots and
disposed in such a way that the air could easily circulate, and the dry wood would rapidly
catch fire.

Pencroft then twisted the piece of paper into the shape of a cone, as smokers do in a high
wind, and poked it in among the moss. Taking a small, rough stone, he wiped it carefully, and
with a beating heart, holding his breath, he gently rubbed the match. The first attempt did
not produce any effect. Pencroft had not struck hard enough, fearing to rub off the phosphorus.

"No, I can't do it," said he, "my hand trembles, the match has missed fire; I cannot, I will
not!" and rising, he told Herbert to take his place.

Certainly the boy had never in all his life been so nervous. Prometheus going to steal the
fire from heaven could not have been more anxious. He did not hesitate, however, but struck
the match directly.

A little spluttering was heard and a tiny blue flame sprang up, making a choking smoke. Herbert
quickly turned the match so as to augment the flame, and then slipped it into the paper cone,
which in a few seconds too caught fire, and then the moss.

A minute later the dry wood crackled and a cheerful flame, assisted by the vigorous blowing
of the sailor, sprang up in the midst of the darkness.

"At last!" cried Pencroft, getting up; "I was never so nervous before in all my life!"

The flat stones made a capital fireplace. The smoke went quite easily out at the narrow passage,
the chimney drew, and an agreeable warmth was not long in being felt.

They must now take great care not to let the fire go out, and always to keep some embers alight.
It only needed care and attention, as they had plenty of wood and could renew their store at
any time.

Pencroft's first thought was to use the fire by preparing a more nourishing supper than a dish
of shell-fish. Two dozen eggs were brought by Herbert. The reporter leaning up in a corner,
watched these preparations without saying anything. A threefold thought weighed on his mind.
Was Cyrus still alive? If he was alive, where was he? If he had survived from his fall, how
was it that he had not found some means of making known his existence? As to Neb, he was roaming
about the shore. He was like a body without a soul.

Pencroft knew fifty ways of cooking eggs, but this time he had no choice, and was obliged to
content himself with roasting them under the hot cinders. In a few minutes the cooking was
done, and the seaman invited the reporter to take his share of the supper. Such was the first
repast of the castaways on this unknown coast. The hard eggs were excellent, and as eggs contain
everything indispensable to man's nourishment, these poor people thought themselves well off,
and were much strengthened by them. Oh! if only one of them had not been missing at this meal!
If the five prisoners who escaped from Richmond had been all there, under the piled-up rocks,
before this clear, crackling fire on the dry sand, what thanksgiving must they have rendered
to Heaven! But the most ingenious, the most learned, he who was their unquestioned chief, Cyrus
Harding, was, alas! missing, and his body had not even obtained a burial-place.

Thus passed the 25th of March. Night had come on. Outside could be heard the howling of the
wind and the monotonous sound of the surf breaking on the shore. The waves rolled the shingle
backwards and forwards with a deafening noise.

The reporter retired into a dark corner after having shortly noted down the occurrences of
the day; the first appearance of this new land, the loss of their leader, the exploration of
the coast, the incident of the matches, etc.; and then overcome by fatigue, he managed to forget
his sorrows in sleep. Herbert went to sleep directly. As to the sailor, he passed the night
with one eye on the fire, on which he did not spare fuel. But one of the castaways did not
sleep in the cave. The inconsolable, despairing Neb, notwithstanding all that his companions
could say to induce him to take some rest, wandered all night long on the shore calling on
his master.

Chapter 6

The inventory of the articles possessed by these castaways from the clouds, thrown upon a coast
which appeared to be uninhabited, was soon made out. They had nothing, save the clothes which
they were wearing at the time of the catastrophe. We must mention, however, a note-book and
a watch which Gideon Spilett had kept, doubtless by inadvertence, not a weapon, not a tool,
not even a pocket-knife; for while in the car they had thrown out everything to lighten the
balloon. The imaginary heroes of Daniel Defoe or of Wyss, as well as Selkirk and Raynal shipwrecked
on Juan Fernandez and on the archipelago of the Aucklands, were never in such absolute destitution.
Either they had abundant resources from their stranded vessels, in grain, cattle, tools, ammunition,
or else some things were thrown up on the coast which supplied them with all the first necessities
of life. But here, not any instrument whatever, not a utensil. From nothing they must supply
themselves with everything.

And yet, if Cyrus Harding had been with them, if the engineer could have brought his practical
science, his inventive mind to bear on their situation, perhaps all hope would not have been
lost. Alas! they must hope no longer again to see Cyrus Harding. The castaways could expect
nothing but from themselves and from that Providence which never abandons those whose faith
is sincere.

But ought they to establish themselves on this part of the coast, without trying to know to
what continent it belonged, if it was inhabited, or if they were on the shore of a desert island?

It was an important question, and should be solved with the shortest possible delay. From its
answer they would know what measures to take. However, according to Pencroft's advice, it appeared
best to wait a few days before commencing an exploration. They must, in fact, prepare some
provisions and procure more strengthening food than eggs and molluscs. The explorers, before
undertaking new fatigues, must first of all recruit their strength.

The Chimneys offered a retreat sufficient for the present. The fire was lighted, and it was
easy to preserve some embers. There were plenty of shell-fish and eggs among the rocks and
on the beach. It would be easy to kill a few of the pigeons which were flying by hundreds about
the summit of the plateau, either with sticks or stones. Perhaps the trees of the neighboring
forest would supply them with eatable fruit. Lastly, the sweet water was there.

It was accordingly settled that for a few days they would remain at the Chimneys so as to prepare
themselves for an expedition, either along the shore or into the interior of the country. This
plan suited Neb particularly. As obstinate in his ideas as in his presentiments, he was in
no haste to abandon this part of the coast, the scene of the catastrophe. He did not, he would
not believe in the loss of Cyrus Harding. No, it did not seem to him possible that such a man
had ended in this vulgar fashion, carried away by a wave, drowned in the floods, a few hundred
feet from a shore. As long as the waves had not cast up the body of the engineer, as long as
he, Neb, had not seen with his eyes, touched with his hands the corpse of his master, he would
not believe in his death! And this idea rooted itself deeper than ever in his determined heart.
An illusion perhaps, but still an illusion to be respected, and one which the sailor did not
wish to destroy. As for him, he hoped no longer, but there was no use in arguing with Neb.
He was like the dog who will not leave the place where his master is buried, and his grief
was such that most probably he would not survive him.

This same morning, the 26th of March, at daybreak, Neb had set out on the shore in a northerly
direction, and he had returned to the spot where the sea, no doubt, had closed over the unfortunate
Harding.

That day's breakfast was composed solely of pigeon's eggs and lithodomes. Herbert had found
some salt deposited by evaporation in the hollows of the rocks, and this mineral was very welcome.

The repast ended, Pencroft asked the reporter if he wished to accompany Herbert and himself
to the forest, where they were going to try to hunt. But on consideration, it was thought necessary
that someone should remain to keep in the fire, and to be at hand in the highly improbable
event of Neb requiring aid. The reporter accordingly remained behind.

"To the chase, Herbert," said the sailor. "We shall find ammunition on our way, and cut our
weapons in the forest." But at the moment of starting, Herbert observed, that since they had
no tinder, it would perhaps be prudent to replace it by another substance.

"What?" asked Pencroft.

"Burnt linen," replied the boy. "That could in case of need serve for tinder."

The sailor thought it very sensible advice. Only it had the inconvenience of necessitating
the sacrifice of a piece of handkerchief. Notwithstanding, the thing was well worth while trying,
and a part of Pencroft's large checked handkerchief was soon reduced to the state of a half-burnt
rag. This inflammable material was placed in the central chamber at the bottom of a little
cavity in the rock, sheltered from all wind and damp.

It was nine o'clock in the morning. The weather was threatening and the breeze blew from the
southeast. Herbert and Pencroft turned the angle of the Chimneys, not without having cast a
look at the smoke which, just at that place, curled round a point of rock: they ascended the
left bank of the river.

Arrived at the forest, Pencroft broke from the first tree two stout branches which he transformed
into clubs, the ends of which Herbert rubbed smooth on a rock. Oh! what would they not have
given for a knife!

The two hunters now advanced among the long grass, following the bank. From the turning which
directed its course to the southwest, the river narrowed gradually and the channel lay between
high banks, over which the trees formed a double arch. Pencroft, lest they should lose themselves,
resolved to follow the course of the stream, which would always lead them back to the point
from which they started. But the bank was not without some obstacles: here, the flexible branches
of the trees bent level with the current; there, creepers and thorns which they had to break
down with their sticks. Herbert often glided among the broken stumps with the agility of a
young cat, and disappeared in the underwood. But Pencroft called him back directly, begging
him not to wander away. Meanwhile, the sailor attentively observed the disposition and nature
of the surrounding country. On the left bank, the ground, which was flat and marshy, rose imperceptibly
towards the interior. It looked there like a network of liquid threads which doubtless reached
the river by some underground drain. Sometimes a stream ran through the underwood, which they
crossed without difficulty. The opposite shore appeared to be more uneven, and the valley of
which the river occupied the bottom was more clearly visible. The hill, covered with trees
disposed in terraces, intercepted the view. On the right bank walking would have been difficult,
for the declivities fell suddenly, and the trees bending over the water were only sustained
by the strength of their roots.

It is needless to add that this forest, as well as the coast already surveyed, was destitute
of any sign of human life. Pencroft only saw traces of quadrupeds, fresh footprints of animals,
of which he could not recognize the species. In all probability, and such was also Herbert's
opinion, some had been left by formidable wild beasts which doubtless would give them some
trouble; but nowhere did they observe the mark of an axe on the trees, nor the ashes of a fire,
nor the impression of a human foot. On this they might probably congratulate themselves, for
on any land in the middle of the Pacific the presence of man was perhaps more to be feared
than desired. Herbert and Pencroft speaking little, for the difficulties of the way were great,
advanced very slowly, and after walking for an hour they had scarcely gone more than a mile.
As yet the hunt had not been successful. However, some birds sang and fluttered in the foliage,
and appeared very timid, as if man had inspired them with an instinctive fear. Among others,
Herbert described, in a marshy part of the forest, a bird with a long pointed beak, closely
resembling the king-fisher, but its plumage was not fine, though of a metallic brilliancy.

"That must be a jacamar," said Herbert, trying to get nearer.

"This will be a good opportunity to taste jacamar," replied the sailor, "if that fellow is
in a humor to be roasted!"

Just then, a stone cleverly thrown by the boy, struck the creature on the wing, but the blow
did not disable it, and the jacamar ran off and disappeared in an instant.

"How clumsy I am!" cried Herbert.

"No, no, my boy!" replied the sailor. "The blow was well aimed; many a one would have missed
it altogether! Come, don't be vexed with yourself. We shall catch it another day!"

As the hunters advanced, the trees were found to be more scattered, many being magnificent,
but none bore eatable fruit. Pencroft searched in vain for some of those precious palm-trees
which are employed in so many ways in domestic life, and which have been found as far as the
fortieth parallel in the Northern Hemisphere, and to the thirty-fifth only in the Southern
Hemisphere. But this forest was only composed of coniferae, such as deodaras, already recognized
by Herbert, and Douglas pine, similar to those which grow on the northwest coast of America,
and splendid firs, measuring a hundred and fifty feet in height.

At this moment a flock of birds, of a small size and pretty plumage, with long glancing tails,
dispersed themselves among the branches strewing their feathers, which covered the ground as
with fine down. Herbert picked up a few of these feathers, and after having examined them,--

"These are couroucous," said he.

"I should prefer a moor-cock or guinea-fowl," replied Pencroft, "still, if they are good to eat--"

"They are good to eat, and also their flesh is very delicate," replied Herbert. "Besides, if
I don't mistake, it is easy to approach and kill them with a stick."

The sailor and the lad, creeping among the grass, arrived at the foot of a tree, whose lower
branches were covered with little birds. The couroucous were waiting the passage of insects
which served for their nourishment. Their feathery feet could be seen clasping the slender
twigs which supported them.

The hunters then rose, and using their sticks like scythes, they mowed down whole rows of these
couroucous, who never thought of flying away, and stupidly allowed themselves to be knocked
off. A hundred were already heaped on the ground, before the others made up their minds to fly.

"Well," said Pencroft, "here is game, which is quite within the reach of hunters like us. We
have only to put out our hands and take it!"

The sailor having strung the couroucous like larks on flexible twigs, they then continued their
exploration. The stream here made a bend towards the south, but this detour was probably not
prolonged for the river must have its source in the mountain, and be supplied by the melting
of the snow which covered the sides of the central cone.

The particular object of their expedition was, as has been said, to procure the greatest possible
quantity of game for the inhabitants of the Chimneys. It must be acknowledged that as yet this
object had not been attained. So the sailor actively pursued his researches, though he exclaimed,
when some animal which he had not even time to recognize fled into the long grass, "If only
we had had the dog Top!" But Top had disappeared at the same time as his master, and had probably
perished with him.

Towards three o'clock new flocks of birds were seen through certain trees, at whose aromatic
berries they were pecking, those of the juniper-tree among others. Suddenly a loud trumpet
call resounded through the forest. This strange and sonorous cry was produced by a game bird
called grouse in the United States. They soon saw several couples, whose plumage was rich chestnut-brown
mottled with dark brown, and tail of the same color. Herbert recognized the males by the two
wing-like appendages raised on the neck. Pencroft determined to get hold of at least one of
these gallinaceae, which were as large as a fowl, and whose flesh is better than that of a
pullet. But it was difficult, for they would not allow themselves to be approached. After several
fruitless attempts, which resulted in nothing but scaring the grouse, the sailor said to the lad,--

"Decidedly, since we can't kill them on the wing, we must try to take them with a line."

"Like a fish?" cried Herbert, much surprised at the proposal.

"Like a fish," replied the sailor quite seriously. Pencroft had found among the grass half
a dozen grouse nests, each having three or four eggs. He took great care not to touch these
nests, to which their proprietors would not fail to return. It was around these that he meant
to stretch his lines, not snares, but real fishing-lines. He took Herbert to some distance
from the nests, and there prepared his singular apparatus with all the care which a disciple
of Izaak Walton would have used. Herbert watched the work with great interest, though rather
doubting its success. The lines were made of fine creepers, fastened one to the other, of the
length of fifteen or twenty feet. Thick, strong thorns, the points bent back (which were supplied
from a dwarf acacia bush) were fastened to the ends of the creepers, by way of hooks. Large
red worms, which were crawling on the ground, furnished bait.

This done, Pencroft, passing among the grass and concealing himself skillfully, placed the
end of his lines armed with hooks near the grouse nests; then he returned, took the other ends
and hid with Herbert behind a large tree. There they both waited patiently; though, it must
be said, that Herbert did not reckon much on the success of the inventive Pencroft.

A whole half-hour passed, but then, as the sailor had surmised, several couple of grouse returned
to their nests. They walked along, pecking the ground, and not suspecting in any way the presence
of the hunters, who, besides, had taken care to place themselves to leeward of the gallinaceae.

The lad felt at this moment highly interested. He held his breath, and Pencroft, his eyes staring,
his mouth open, his lips advanced, as if about to taste a piece of grouse, scarcely breathed.

Meanwhile, the birds walked about the hooks, without taking any notice of them. Pencroft then
gave little tugs which moved the bait as if the worms had been still alive.

The sailor undoubtedly felt much greater anxiety than does the fisherman, for he does not see
his prey coming through the water. The jerks attracted the attention of the gallinaceae, and
they attacked the hooks with their beaks. Three voracious grouse swallowed at the same moment
bait and hook. Suddenly with a smart jerk, Pencroft "struck" his line, and a flapping of wings
showed that the birds were taken.

"Hurrah!" he cried, rushing towards the game, of which he made himself master in an instant.

Herbert clapped his hands. It was the first time that he had ever seen birds taken with a line,
but the sailor modestly confessed that it was not his first attempt, and that besides he could
not claim the merit of invention.

"And at any rate," added he, "situated as we are, we must hope to hit upon many other contrivances."

The grouse were fastened by their claws, and Pencroft, delighted at not having to appear before
their companions with empty hands, and observing that the day had begun to decline, judged
it best to return to their dwelling.

The direction was indicated by the river, whose course they had only to follow, and, towards
six o'clock, tired enough with their excursion, Herbert and Pencroft arrived at the Chimneys.

Chapter 7

Gideon Spilett was standing motionless on the shore, his arms crossed, gazing over the sea,
the horizon of which was lost towards the east in a thick black cloud which was spreading rapidly
towards the zenith. The wind was already strong, and increased with the decline of day. The
whole sky was of a threatening aspect, and the first symptoms of a violent storm were clearly
visible.

Herbert entered the Chimneys, and Pencroft went towards the reporter. The latter, deeply absorbed,
did not see him approach.

"We are going to have a dirty night, Mr. Spilett!" said the sailor: "Petrels delight in wind
and rain."

The reporter, turning at the moment, saw Pencroft, and his first words were,--

"At what distance from the coast would you say the car was, when the waves carried off our
companion?"

The sailor had not expected this question. He reflected an instant and replied,--

"Two cables lengths at the most."

"But what is a cable's length?" asked Gideon Spilett.

"About a hundred and twenty fathoms, or six hundred feet."

"Then," said the reporter, "Cyrus Harding must have disappeared twelve hundred feet at the
most from the shore?"

"About that," replied Pencroft.

"And his dog also?"

"Also."

"What astonishes me," rejoined the reporter, "while admitting that our companion has perished,
is that Top has also met his death, and that neither the body of the dog nor of his master
has been cast on the shore!"

"It is not astonishing, with such a heavy sea," replied the sailor. "Besides, it is possible
that currents have carried them farther down the coast."

"Then, it is your opinion that our friend has perished in the waves?" again asked the reporter.

"That is my opinion."

"My own opinion," said Gideon Spilett, "with due deference to your experience, Pencroft, is
that in the double fact of the absolute disappearance of Cyrus and Top, living or dead, there
is something unaccountable and unlikely."

"I wish I could think like you, Mr. Spilett," replied Pencroft; "unhappily, my mind is made
up on this point." Having said this, the sailor returned to the Chimneys. A good fire crackled
on the hearth. Herbert had just thrown on an armful of dry wood, and the flame cast a bright
light into the darkest parts of the passage.

Pencroft immediately began to prepare the dinner. It appeared best to introduce something solid
into the bill of fare, for all needed to get up their strength. The strings of couroucous were
kept for the next day, but they plucked a couple of grouse, which were soon spitted on a stick,
and roasting before a blazing fire.

At seven in the evening Neb had not returned. The prolonged absence of the Negro made Pencroft
very uneasy. It was to be feared that he had met with an accident on this unknown land, or
that the unhappy fellow had been driven to some act of despair. But Herbert drew very different
conclusions from this absence. According to him, Neb's delay was caused by some new circumstances
which had induced him to prolong his search. Also, everything new must be to the advantage
of Cyrus Harding. Why had Neb not returned unless hope still detained him? Perhaps he had found
some mark, a footstep, a trace which had put him in the right path. Perhaps he was at this
moment on a certain track. Perhaps even he was near his master.

Thus the lad reasoned. Thus he spoke. His companions let him talk. The reporter alone approved
with a gesture. But what Pencroft thought most probable was, that Neb had pushed his researches
on the shore farther than the day before, and that he had not as yet had time to return.

Herbert, however, agitated by vague presentiments, several times manifested an intention to
go to meet Neb. But Pencroft assured him that that would be a useless course, that in the darkness
and deplorable weather he could not find any traces of Neb, and that it would be much better
to wait. If Neb had not made his appearance by the next day, Pencroft would not hesitate to
join him in his search.

Gideon Spilett approved of the sailor's opinion that it was best not to divide, and Herbert
was obliged to give up his project; but two large tears fell from his eyes.

The reporter could not refrain from embracing the generous boy.

Bad weather now set in. A furious gale from the southeast passed over the coast. The sea roared
as it beat over the reef. Heavy rain was dashed by the storm into particles like dust. Ragged
masses of vapor drove along the beach, on which the tormented shingles sounded as if poured
out in cart-loads, while the sand raised by the wind added as it were mineral dust to that
which was liquid, and rendered the united attack insupportable. Between the river's mouth and
the end of the cliff, eddies of wind whirled and gusts from this maelstrom lashed the water
which ran through the narrow valley. The smoke from the fireplace was also driven back through
the opening, filling the passages and rendering them uninhabitable.

Therefore, as the grouse were cooked, Pencroft let the fire die away, and only preserved a
few embers buried under the ashes.

At eight o'clock Neb had not appeared, but there was no doubt that the frightful weather alone
hindered his return, and that he must have taken refuge in some cave, to await the end of the
storm or at least the return of day. As to going to meet him, or attempting to find him, it
was impossible.

The game constituted the only dish at supper; the meat was excellent, and Pencroft and Herbert,
whose long excursion had rendered them very hungry, devoured it with infinite satisfaction.

Their meal concluded, each retired to the corner in which he had rested the preceding night,
and Herbert was not long in going to sleep near the sailor, who had stretched himself beside
the fireplace.

Outside, as the night advanced, the tempest also increased in strength, until it was equal
to that which had carried the prisoners from Richmond to this land in the Pacific. The tempests
which are frequent during the seasons of the equinox, and which are so prolific in catastrophes,
are above all terrible over this immense ocean, which opposes no obstacle to their fury. No
description can give an idea of the terrific violence of the gale as it beat upon the unprotected
coast.

Happily the pile of rocks which formed the Chimneys was solid. It was composed of enormous
blocks of granite, a few of which, insecurely balanced, seemed to tremble on their foundations,
and Pencroft could feel rapid quiverings under his head as it rested on the rock. But he repeated
to himself, and rightly, that there was nothing to fear, and that their retreat would not give
way. However he heard the noise of stones torn from the summit of the plateau by the wind,
falling down on to the beach. A few even rolled on to the upper part of the Chimneys, or flew
off in fragments when they were projected perpendicularly. Twice the sailor rose and intrenched
himself at the opening of the passage, so as to take a look in safety at the outside. But there
was nothing to be feared from these showers, which were not considerable, and he returned to
his couch before the fireplace, where the embers glowed beneath the ashes.

Notwithstanding the fury of the hurricane, the uproar of the tempest, the thunder, and the
tumult, Herbert slept profoundly. Sleep at last took possession of Pencroft, whom a seafaring
life had habituated to anything. Gideon Spilett alone was kept awake by anxiety. He reproached
himself with not having accompanied Neb. It was evident that he had not abandoned all hope.
The presentiments which had troubled Herbert did not cease to agitate him also. His thoughts
were concentrated on Neb. Why had Neb not returned? He tossed about on his sandy couch, scarcely
giving a thought to the struggle of the elements. Now and then, his eyes, heavy with fatigue,
closed for an instant, but some sudden thought reopened them almost immediately.

Meanwhile the night advanced, and it was perhaps two hours from morning, when Pencroft, then
sound asleep, was vigorously shaken.

"What's the matter?" he cried, rousing himself, and collecting his ideas with the promptitude
usual to seamen.

The reporter was leaning over him, and saying,--

"Listen, Pencroft, listen!"

The sailor strained his ears, but could hear no noise beyond those caused by the storm.

"It is the wind," said he.

"No," replied Gideon Spilett, listening again, "I thought I heard--"

"What?"

"The barking of a dog!"

"A dog!" cried Pencroft, springing up.

"Yes--barking--"

"It's not possible!" replied the sailor. "And besides, how, in the roaring of the storm--"

"Stop--listen--" said the reporter.

Pencroft listened more attentively, and really thought he heard, during a lull, distant barking.

"Well!" said the reporter, pressing the sailor's hand.

"Yes--yes!" replied Pencroft.

"It is Top! It is Top!" cried Herbert, who had just awoke; and all three rushed towards the
opening of the Chimneys. They had great difficulty in getting out. The wind drove them back.
But at last they succeeded, and could only remain standing by leaning against the rocks. They
looked about, but could not speak. The darkness was intense. The sea, the sky, the land were
all mingled in one black mass. Not a speck of light was visible.

The reporter and his companions remained thus for a few minutes, overwhelmed by the wind, drenched
by the rain, blinded by the sand.

Then, in a pause of the tumult, they again heard the barking, which they found must be at some
distance.

It could only be Top! But was he alone or accompanied? He was most probably alone, for, if
Neb had been with him, he would have made his way more directly towards the Chimneys. The sailor
squeezed the reporter's hand, for he could not make himself heard, in a way which signified
"Wait!" then he reentered the passage.

An instant after he issued with a lighted fagot, which he threw into the darkness, whistling
shrilly.

It appeared as if this signal had been waited for; the barking immediately came nearer, and
soon a dog bounded into the passage. Pencroft, Herbert, and Spilett entered after him.

An armful of dry wood was thrown on the embers. The passage was lighted up with a bright flame.

"It is Top!" cried Herbert.

It was indeed Top, a magnificent Anglo-Norman, who derived from these two races crossed the
swiftness of foot and the acuteness of smell which are the preeminent qualities of coursing
dogs. It was the dog of the engineer, Cyrus Harding. But he was alone! Neither Neb nor his
master accompanied him!

How was it that his instinct had guided him straight to the Chimneys, which he did not know?
It appeared inexplicable, above all, in the midst of this black night and in such a tempest!
But what was still more inexplicable was, that Top was neither tired, nor exhausted, nor even
soiled with mud or sand!--Herbert had drawn him towards him, and was patting his head, the
dog rubbing his neck against the lad's hands.

"If the dog is found, the master will be found also!" said the reporter.

"God grant it!" responded Herbert. "Let us set off! Top will guide us!"

Pencroft did not make any objection. He felt that Top's arrival contradicted his conjectures.
"Come along then!" said he.

Pencroft carefully covered the embers on the hearth. He placed a few pieces of wood among them,
so as to keep in the fire until their return. Then, preceded by the dog, who seemed to invite
them by short barks to come with him, and followed by the reporter and the boy, he dashed out,
after having put up in his handkerchief the remains of the supper.

The storm was then in all its violence, and perhaps at its height. Not a single ray of light
from the moon pierced through the clouds. To follow a straight course was difficult. It was
best to rely on Top's instinct. They did so. The reporter and Herbert walked behind the dog,
and the sailor brought up the rear. It was impossible to exchange a word. The rain was not
very heavy, but the wind was terrific.

However, one circumstance favored the seaman and his two companions. The wind being southeast,
consequently blew on their backs. The clouds of sand, which otherwise would have been insupportable,
from being received behind, did not in consequence impede their progress. In short, they sometimes
went faster than they liked, and had some difficulty in keeping their feet; but hope gave them
strength, for it was not at random that they made their way along the shore. They had no doubt
that Neb had found his master, and that he had sent them the faithful dog. But was the engineer
living, or had Neb only sent for his companions that they might render the last duties to the
corpse of the unfortunate Harding?

After having passed the precipice, Herbert, the reporter, and Pencroft prudently stepped aside
to stop and take breath. The turn of the rocks sheltered them from the wind, and they could
breathe after this walk or rather run of a quarter of an hour.

They could now hear and reply to each other, and the lad having pronounced the name of Cyrus
Harding, Top gave a few short barks, as much as to say that his master was saved.

"Saved, isn't he?" repeated Herbert; "saved, Top?"

And the dog barked in reply.

They once more set out. The tide began to rise, and urged by the wind it threatened to be unusually
high, as it was a spring tide. Great billows thundered against the reef with such violence
that they probably passed entirely over the islet, then quite invisible. The mole no longer
protected the coast, which was directly exposed to the attacks of the open sea.

As soon as the sailor and his companions left the precipice, the wind struck them again with
renewed fury. Though bent under the gale they walked very quickly, following Top, who did not
hesitate as to what direction to take.

They ascended towards the north, having on their left an interminable extent of billows, which
broke with a deafening noise, and on their right a dark country, the aspect of which it was
impossible to guess. But they felt that it was comparatively flat, for the wind passed completely
over them, without being driven back as it was when it came in contact with the cliff.

At four o'clock in the morning, they reckoned that they had cleared about five miles. The clouds
were slightly raised, and the wind, though less damp, was very sharp and cold. Insufficiently
protected by their clothing, Pencroft, Herbert and Spilett suffered cruelly, but not a complaint
escaped their lips. They were determined to follow Top, wherever the intelligent animal wished
to lead them.

Towards five o'clock day began to break. At the zenith, where the fog was less thick, gray
shades bordered the clouds; under an opaque belt, a luminous line clearly traced the horizon.
The crests of the billows were tipped with a wild light, and the foam regained its whiteness.
At the same time on the left the hilly parts of the coast could be seen, though very indistinctly.

At six o'clock day had broken. The clouds rapidly lifted. The seaman and his companions were
then about six miles from the Chimneys. They were following a very flat shore bounded by a
reef of rocks, whose heads scarcely emerged from the sea, for they were in deep water. On the
left, the country appeared to be one vast extent of sandy downs, bristling with thistles. There
was no cliff, and the shore offered no resistance to the ocean but a chain of irregular hillocks.
Here and there grew two or three trees, inclined towards the west, their branches projecting
in that direction. Quite behind, in the southwest, extended the border of the forest.

At this moment, Top became very excited. He ran forward, then returned, and seemed to entreat
them to hasten their steps. The dog then left the beach, and guided by his wonderful instinct,
without showing the least hesitation, went straight in among the downs. They followed him.
The country appeared an absolute desert. Not a living creature was to be seen.

The downs, the extent of which was large, were composed of hillocks and even of hills, very
irregularly distributed. They resembled a Switzerland modeled in sand, and only an amazing
instinct could have possibly recognized the way.

Five minutes after having left the beach, the reporter and his two companions arrived at a
sort of excavation, hollowed out at the back of a high mound. There Top stopped, and gave a
loud, clear bark. Spilett, Herbert, and Pencroft dashed into the cave.

Neb was there, kneeling beside a body extended on a bed of grass.

The body was that of the engineer, Cyrus Harding.

Chapter 8

Neb did not move. Pencroft only uttered one word.

"Living?" he cried.

Neb did not reply. Spilett and the sailor turned pale. Herbert clasped his hands, and remained
motionless. The poor Negro, absorbed in his grief, evidently had neither seen his companions
nor heard the sailor speak.

The reporter knelt down beside the motionless body, and placed his ear to the engineer's chest,
having first torn open his clothes.

A minute--an age!--passed, during which he endeavored to catch the faintest throb of the heart.

Neb had raised himself a little and gazed without seeing. Despair had completely changed his
countenance. He could scarcely be recognized, exhausted with fatigue, broken with grief. He
believed his master was dead.

Gideon Spilett at last rose, after a long and attentive examination.

"He lives!" said he.

Pencroft knelt in his turn beside the engineer, he also heard a throbbing, and even felt a
slight breath on his cheek.

Herbert at a word from the reporter ran out to look for water. He found, a hundred feet off,
a limpid stream, which seemed to have been greatly increased by the rains, and which filtered
through the sand; but nothing in which to put the water, not even a shell among the downs.
The lad was obliged to content himself with dipping his handkerchief in the stream, and with
it hastened back to the grotto.

Happily the wet handkerchief was enough for Gideon Spilett, who only wished to wet the engineer's
lips. The cold water produced an almost immediate effect. His chest heaved and he seemed to
try to speak.

"We will save him!" exclaimed the reporter.

At these words hope revived in Neb's heart. He undressed his master to see if he was wounded,
but not so much as a bruise was to be found, either on the head, body, or limbs, which was
surprising, as he must have been dashed against the rocks; even the hands were uninjured, and
it was difficult to explain how the engineer showed no traces of the efforts which he must
have made to get out of reach of the breakers.

But the explanation would come later. When Cyrus was able to speak he would say what had happened.
For the present the question was, how to recall him to life, and it appeared likely that rubbing
would bring this about; so they set to work with the sailor's jersey.

The engineer, revived by this rude shampooing, moved his arm slightly and began to breathe
more regularly. He was sinking from exhaustion, and certainly, had not the reporter and his
companions arrived, it would have been all over with Cyrus Harding.

"You thought your master was dead, didn't you?" said the seaman to Neb.

"Yes! quite dead!" replied Neb, "and if Top had not found you, and brought you here, I should
have buried my master, and then have lain down on his grave to die!"

It had indeed been a narrow escape for Cyrus Harding!

Neb then recounted what had happened. The day before, after having left the Chimneys at daybreak,
he had ascended the coast in a northerly direction, and had reached that part of the shore
which he had already visited.

There, without any hope he acknowledged, Neb had searched the beach, among the rocks, on the
sand, for the smallest trace to guide him. He examined particularly that part of the beach
which was not covered by the high tide, for near the sea the water would have obliterated all
marks. Neb did not expect to find his master living. It was for a corpse that he searched,
a corpse which he wished to bury with his own hands!

He sought long in vain. This desert coast appeared never to have been visited by a human creature.
The shells, those which the sea had not reached, and which might be met with by millions above
high-water mark, were untouched. Not a shell was broken.

Neb then resolved to walk along the beach for some miles. It was possible that the waves had
carried the body to quite a distant point. When a corpse floats a little distance from a low
shore, it rarely happens that the tide does not throw it up, sooner or later. This Neb knew,
and he wished to see his master again for the last time.

"I went along the coast for another two miles, carefully examining the beach, both at high
and low water, and I had despaired of finding anything, when yesterday, above five in the evening,
I saw footprints on the sand."

"Footprints?" exclaimed Pencroft.

"Yes!" replied Neb.

"Did these footprints begin at the water's edge?" asked the reporter.

"No," replied Neb, "only above high-water mark, for the others must have been washed out by
the tide."

"Go on, Neb," said Spilett.

"I went half crazy when I saw these footprints. They were very clear and went towards the downs.
I followed them for a quarter of a mile, running, but taking care not to destroy them. Five
minutes after, as it was getting dark, I heard the barking of a dog. It was Top, and Top brought
me here, to my master!"

Neb ended his account by saying what had been his grief at finding the inanimate body, in which
he vainly sought for the least sign of life. Now that he had found him dead he longed for him
to be alive. All his efforts were useless! Nothing remained to be done but to render the last
duties to the one whom he had loved so much! Neb then thought of his companions. They, no doubt,
would wish to see the unfortunate man again. Top was there. Could he not rely on the sagacity
of the faithful animal? Neb several times pronounced the name of the reporter, the one among
his companions whom Top knew best.

Then he pointed to the south, and the dog bounded off in the direction indicated to him.

We have heard how, guided by an instinct which might be looked upon almost as supernatural,
Top had found them.

Neb's companions had listened with great attention to this account.

It was unaccountable to them how Cyrus Harding, after the efforts which he must have made to
escape from the waves by crossing the rocks, had not received even a scratch. And what could
not be explained either was how the engineer had managed to get to this cave in the downs,
more than a mile from the shore.

"So, Neb," said the reporter, "it was not you who brought your master to this place."

"No, it was not I," replied the Negro.

"It's very clear that the captain came here by himself," said Pencroft.

"It is clear in reality," observed Spilett, "but it is not credible!"

The explanation of this fact could only be produced from the engineer's own lips, and they
must wait for that till speech returned. Rubbing had re-established the circulation of the
blood. Cyrus Harding moved his arm again, then his head, and a few incomprehensible words escaped
him.

Neb, who was bending over him, spoke, but the engineer did not appear to hear, and his eyes
remained closed. Life was only exhibited in him by movement, his senses had not as yet been
restored.

Pencroft much regretted not having either fire, or the means of procuring it, for he had, unfortunately,
forgotten to bring the burnt linen, which would easily have ignited from the sparks produced
by striking together two flints. As to the engineer's pockets, they were entirely empty, except
that of his waistcoat, which contained his watch. It was necessary to carry Harding to the
Chimneys, and that as soon as possible. This was the opinion of all.

Meanwhile, the care which was lavished on the engineer brought him back to consciousness sooner
than they could have expected. The water with which they wetted his lips revived him gradually.
Pencroft also thought of mixing with the water some moisture from the titra's flesh which he
had brought. Herbert ran to the beach and returned with two large bivalve shells. The sailor
concocted something which he introduced between the lips of the engineer, who eagerly drinking
it opened his eyes.

Neb and the reporter were leaning over him.

"My master! my master!" cried Neb.

The engineer heard him. He recognized Neb and Spilett, then his other two companions, and his
hand slightly pressed theirs.

A few words again escaped him, which showed what thoughts were, even then, troubling his brain.
This time he was understood. Undoubtedly they were the same words he had before attempted to utter.

"Island or continent?" he murmured.

"Bother the continent," cried Pencroft hastily; "there is time enough to see about that, captain!
we don't care for anything, provided you are living."

The engineer nodded faintly, and then appeased to sleep.

They respected this sleep, and the reporter began immediately to make arrangements for transporting
Harding to a more comfortable place. Neb, Herbert, and Pencroft left the cave and directed
their steps towards a high mound crowned with a few distorted trees. On the way the sailor
could not help repeating,--

"Island or continent! To think of that, when at one's last gasp! What a man!"

Arrived at the summit of the mound, Pencroft and his two companions set to work, with no other
tools than their hands, to despoil of its principal branches a rather sickly tree, a sort of
marine fir; with these branches they made a litter, on which, covered with grass and leaves,
they could carry the engineer.

This occupied them nearly forty minutes, and it was ten o'clock when they returned to Cyrus
Harding whom Spilett had not left.

The engineer was just awaking from the sleep, or rather from the drowsiness, in which they
had found him. The color was returning to his cheeks, which till now had been as pale as death.
He raised himself a little, looked around him, and appeared to ask where he was.

"Can you listen to me without fatigue, Cyrus?" asked the reporter.

"Yes," replied the engineer.

"It's my opinion," said the sailor, "that Captain Harding will be able to listen to you still
better, if he will have some more grouse jelly,--for we have grouse, captain," added he, presenting
him with a little of this jelly, to which he this time added some of the flesh.

Cyrus Harding ate a little of the grouse, and the rest was divided among his companions, who
found it but a meager breakfast, for they were suffering extremely from hunger.

"Well!" said the sailor, "there is plenty of food at the Chimneys, for you must know, captain,
that down there, in the south, we have a house, with rooms, beds, and fireplace, and in the
pantry, several dozen of birds, which our Herbert calls couroucous. Your litter is ready, and
as soon as you feel strong enough we will carry you home."

"Thanks, my friend," replied the engineer; "wait another hour or two, and then we will set
out. And now speak, Spilett."

The reporter then told him all that had occurred. He recounted all the events with which Cyrus
was unacquainted, the last fall of the balloon, the landing on this unknown land, which appeared
a desert (whatever it was, whether island or continent), the discovery of the Chimneys, the
search for him, not forgetting of course Neb's devotion, the intelligence exhibited by the
faithful Top, as well as many other matters.

"But," asked Harding, in a still feeble voice, "you did not, then, pick me up on the beach?"

"No," replied the reporter.

"And did you not bring me to this cave?"

"No."

"At what distance is this cave from the sea?"

"About a mile," replied Pencroft; "and if you are astonished, captain, we are not less surprised
ourselves at seeing you in this place!"

"Indeed," said the engineer, who was recovering gradually, and who took great interest in these
details, "indeed it is very singular!"

"But," resumed the sailor, "can you tell us what happened after you were carried off by the sea?"

Cyrus Harding considered. He knew very little. The wave had torn him from the balloon net.
He sank at first several fathoms. On returning to the surface, in the half light, he felt a
living creature struggling near him. It was Top, who had sprung to his help. He saw nothing
of the balloon, which, lightened both of his weight and that of the dog, had darted away like
an arrow.

There he was, in the midst of the angry sea, at a distance which could not be less than half
a mile from the shore. He attempted to struggle against the billows by swimming vigorously.
Top held him up by his clothes; but a strong current seized him and drove him towards the north,
and after half an hour of exertion, he sank, dragging Top with him into the depths. From that
moment to the moment in which he recovered to find himself in the arms of his friends he remembered
nothing.

"However," remarked Pencroft, "you must have been thrown on to the beach, and you must have
had strength to walk here, since Neb found your footmarks!"

"Yes... of course," replied the engineer, thoughtfully; "and you found no traces of human beings
on this coast?"

"Not a trace," replied the reporter; "besides, if by chance you had met with some deliverer
there, just in the nick of time, why should he have abandoned you after having saved you from
the waves?"

"You are right, my dear Spilett. Tell me, Neb," added the engineer, turning to his servant,
"it was not you who... you can't have had a moment of unconsciousness... during which no, that's
absurd.... Do any of the footsteps still remain?" asked Harding.

"Yes, master," replied Neb; "here, at the entrance, at the back of the mound, in a place sheltered
from the rain and wind. The storm has destroyed the others."

"Pencroft," said Cyrus Harding, "will you take my shoe and see if it fits exactly to the footprints?"

The sailor did as the engineer requested. While he and Herbert, guided by Neb, went to the
place where the footprints were to be found, Cyrus remarked to the reporter,--

"It is a most extraordinary thing!"

"Perfectly inexplicable!" replied Gideon Spilett.

"But do not dwell upon it just now, my dear Spilett, we will talk about it by-and-by."

A moment after the others entered.

There was no doubt about it. The engineer's shoe fitted exactly to the footmarks. It was therefore
Cyrus Harding who had left them on the sand.

"Come," said he, "I must have experienced this unconsciousness which I attributed to Neb. I
must have walked like a somnambulist, without any knowledge of my steps, and Top must have
guided me here, after having dragged me from the waves... Come, Top! Come, old dog!"

The magnificent animal bounded barking to his master, and caresses were lavished on him. It
was agreed that there was no other way of accounting for the rescue of Cyrus Harding, and that
Top deserved all the honor of the affair.

Towards twelve o'clock, Pencroft having asked the engineer if they could now remove him, Harding,
instead of replying, and by an effort which exhibited the most energetic will, got up. But
he was obliged to lean on the sailor, or he would have fallen.

"Well done!" cried Pencroft; "bring the captain's litter."

The litter was brought; the transverse branches had been covered with leaves and long grass.
Harding was laid on it, and Pencroft, having taken his place at one end and Neb at the other,
they started towards the coast. There was a distance of eight miles to be accomplished; but,
as they could not go fast, and it would perhaps be necessary to stop frequently, they reckoned
that it would take at least six hours to reach the Chimneys. The wind was still strong, but
fortunately it did not rain. Although lying down, the engineer, leaning on his elbow, observed
the coast, particularly inland. He did not speak, but he gazed; and, no doubt, the appearance
of the country, with its inequalities of ground, its forests, its various productions, were
impressed on his mind. However, after traveling for two hours, fatigue overcame him, and he slept.

At half-past five the little band arrived at the precipice, and a short time after at the Chimneys.

They stopped, and the litter was placed on the sand; Cyrus Harding was sleeping profoundly,
and did not awake.

Pencroft, to his extreme surprise, found that the terrible storm had quite altered the aspect
of the place. Important changes had occurred; great blocks of stone lay on the beach, which
was also covered with a thick carpet of sea-weed, algae, and wrack. Evidently the sea, passing
over the islet, had been carried right up to the foot of the enormous curtain of granite. The
soil in front of the cave had been torn away by the violence of the waves. A horrid presentiment
flashed across Pencroft's mind. He rushed into the passage, but returned almost immediately,
and stood motionless, staring at his companions.... The fire was out; the drowned cinders were
nothing but mud; the burnt linen, which was to have served as tinder, had disappeared! The
sea had penetrated to the end of the passages, and everything was overthrown and destroyed
in the interior of the Chimneys!

Chapter 9

In a few words, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, and Neb were made acquainted with what had happened.
This accident, which appeared so very serious to Pencroft, produced different effects on the
companions of the honest sailor.

Neb, in his delight at having found his master, did not listen, or rather, did not care to
trouble himself with what Pencroft was saying.

Herbert shared in some degree the sailor's feelings.

As to the reporter, he simply replied,--

"Upon my word, Pencroft, it's perfectly indifferent to me!"

"But, I repeat, that we haven't any fire!"

"Pooh!"

"Nor any means of relighting it!"

"Nonsense!"

"But I say, Mr. Spilett--"

"Isn't Cyrus here?" replied the reporter.

"Is not our engineer alive? He will soon find some way of making fire for us!"

"With what?"

"With nothing."

What had Pencroft to say? He could say nothing, for, in the bottom of his heart he shared the
confidence which his companions had in Cyrus Harding. The engineer was to them a microcosm,
a compound of every science, a possessor of all human knowledge. It was better to be with Cyrus
in a desert island, than without him in the most flourishing town in the United States. With
him they could want nothing; with him they would never despair. If these brave men had been
told that a volcanic eruption would destroy the land, that this land would be engulfed in the
depths of the Pacific, they would have imperturbably replied,--

"Cyrus is here!"

While in the palanquin, however, the engineer had again relapsed into unconsciousness, which
the jolting to which he had been subjected during his journey had brought on, so that they
could not now appeal to his ingenuity. The supper must necessarily be very meager. In fact,
all the grouse flesh had been consumed, and there no longer existed any means of cooking more
game. Besides, the couroucous which had been reserved had disappeared. They must consider what
was to be done.

First of all, Cyrus Harding was carried into the central passage. There they managed to arrange
for him a couch of sea-weed which still remained almost dry. The deep sleep which had overpowered
him would no doubt be more beneficial to him than any nourishment.

Night had closed in, and the temperature, which had modified when the wind shifted to the northwest,
again became extremely cold. Also, the sea having destroyed the partitions which Pencroft had
put up in certain places in the passages, the Chimneys, on account of the draughts, had become
scarcely habitable. The engineer's condition would, therefore, have been bad enough, if his
companions had not carefully covered him with their coats and waistcoats.

Supper, this evening, was of course composed of the inevitable lithodomes, of which Herbert
and Neb picked up a plentiful supply on the beach. However, to these molluscs, the lad added
some edible sea-weed, which he gathered on high rocks, whose sides were only washed by the
sea at the time of high tides. This sea-weed, which belongs to the order of Fucacae, of the
genus Sargassum, produces, when dry, a gelatinous matter, rich and nutritious. The reporter
and his companions, after having eaten a quantity of lithodomes, sucked the sargassum, of which
the taste was very tolerable. It is used in parts of the East very considerably by the natives.
"Never mind!" said the sailor, "the captain will help us soon." Meanwhile the cold became very
severe, and unhappily they had no means of defending themselves from it.

The sailor, extremely vexed, tried in all sorts of ways to procure fire. Neb helped him in
this work. He found some dry moss, and by striking together two pebbles he obtained some sparks,
but the moss, not being inflammable enough, did not take fire, for the sparks were really only
incandescent, and not at all of the same consistency as those which are emitted from flint
when struck in the same manner. The experiment, therefore, did not succeed. 

Jeannie was silent a moment.

"But he wants to see me now," she said.

"I know. But I don't think he wants to be with us alone.

You understand that, I expect."

Jeannie sighed.

"Poor Tom!" she said. "Yet I don't know why I say'poor.'I think he
likes life."

"I don't think he loves it as you and I do."

Jeannie's eyes suddenly filled with tears.

"I am awfully sorry for that," she said.

"Sometimes I feel frightfully guilty, and then suddenly on the top of that I feel innocent.
Oh, to be plain, I feel more than innocent. I feel dreadfully laudable.

And then, to do me justice, I put up a little prayer that I may not
become a prig or a donkey."

He
laughed.

"Please, don't," he said. "I should not know you. But you made a
man of him."

"Ah, yes; he has told you that. It is not the case. He made a man
of himself."

Victor held up his hand.

"I don't want to know what happened," he said.

"I am quite content to leave it. He became a man, and you were always
my beloved."

Some backward surge of memory stirred in Jeannie.

"Quite always?" she said. "You never wanted to ask me about it?"

"No, dear, never," he said. "Not because I was complacent or anything of that kind, but simply
because we loved each other."

This, then, was the foundation of Lady Nottingham's Easter party.

Jeannie and her husband would come, and so, as a corollary, Lord
Lindfield would come.

Then there would be the newly-engaged couple, namely, Daisy and Willie
Carton.

Either of them would go, as steel filings go to the magnet, wherever
the other was, and without the least sense of compunction Lady Nottingham
told each of them separately that the other was coming to her.

She had been rather late in doing this, and, as a matter of fact,
Willie, no longer hoping for it, had made another engagement.

But he did not even frown or consider that.

He wrote a cheerful, scarcely apologetic note to Mrs. Beaumont, merely saying he found he could
not come. Nature and art alike-- and Mrs. Beaumont was a subtle compound of the two-- allow much
latitude to lovers, and she did not scold him.

At this stage in her proceedings Lady Nottingham suddenly abandoned
the idea of a party at all.

There was Victor and Jeannie, and their corollary, Tom Lindfield;
there was Daisy and her corollary, Willie; there was herself.

Gladys would be there too, and-- and it was necessary to provide light conversation in case
everybody was too much taken up with everybody else, and Jim Crowfoot
would, no doubt, supply it.

A very short telephonic pause was succeeded by the assurance that
he would.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Two days before this little gathering of friends was to assemble Jeannie
left Itchen Abbas for town.

Victor did not go with her, for the unpunctual May-fly was already
on the river, and, since subsequent days had to be abandoned, he preferred
to use these.

He thought it (and said so) very selfish of Jeannie to go, since
who cared what gowns she wore?

But it seemed that Jeannie thought this nonsense, and went.

Also a tooth, though it did not ache, said that it thought it might,
and she arranged an appointment in Old Burlington Street for Saturday
afternoon.

She would meet Victor down at Bray.

The tooth proved a false alarm.

It was tapped and probed and mirrored, and she was assured that she need feel no anxiety. So
in the elation of a visit to the dentist over, she emerged into the
street.

There was a willing but unable motor there that puffed and snorted,
and did not do anything.

And immediately she heard a familiar voice.

"Why, Jeannie," it said, "what confounded and stupendous luck!

Never thought to meet you here. Going to Bray, aren't you? And so am I. Old Puffing Billy
is having his fit here this time. Or do you think he'll have another
on the road?

I'll go down by train with you, or I'll take you down in Puffing Billy. But we'll go together.
By Jove, you look ripping!"

Jeannie gave him both her hands.

"Oh, Tom," she said, "what fun! Let's go down in Puffing Billy.

I've been to the dentist, and there isn't anything."

Puffing Billy gave out a volume of blue smoke.

"Good old chap," said Tom sympathetically. "Hope he'll stick again on the level.-- Is it all
right for the present, Stanton?-- Get in, Jeannie. Never saw such luck! Who would expect Puffing
Billy to break down opposite a dentist's, when you needn't have gone there at all. Jove! it is
good to see you."

The incredible happened. Once again the car broke down on the level, and once again Stanton
had to go upon his belly, like the snake, while his passengers sat
on a rug by the wayside.

"We
shall be late again," said Tom. "Do you know, it is nearly six months
since I saw you last?"

Jeannie
remembered the invitation he had received and refused.

"That's your fault," she said.

"I know. Your man asked me. Awfully good of him."

"Why didn't you come, then?"

The inimitable Stanton ceased to be a snake, and, becoming erect,
touched his cap.

"Car's all right, my lord," he said.

"Oh, is it? Get in, then.-- I didn't know if you wanted me to come, Jeannie. I'm not sure if
I wanted to either.

But I expect the two are one. It's funny, isn't it? Try me again."

"Well, come back with Victor and me after Bray," she said.

"Rather. It's Bray first, though. We shan't be late for dinner after all. What a bore; I like
being uniform and consistent.

Look here, do promise me a morning or an afternoon or something down there. Just half a day alone
with you."

She got into the car, he following.

"Yes, you dear," she said. "Of course you shall have it.

A whole day if you like, morning and afternoon."

"Jove! I'm on in that piece. Sure you won't be bored?"

"I'll try not."

"H'm. You think it will need an effort."

Jeannie laughed.

"Once upon a time a man went out fishing for compliments--" she began.

"And he didn't catch any," said Tom.

"Not one.

And now we've chattered enough, and you shall tell me all about yourself."*****
It was a very quiet and simple history that she heard, and all told
it amounted to the fact that he had settled down as he told her nearly
a year ago he was thinking of doing, but without marrying.

There was little to say, and in that little he was characteristically modest. For the greater part
of the year he had been down at his place in Wiltshire, of which he
had been so studiously absentee a landlord, and for the first time
had taken his place as a big landowner, and that which, with rather
a wry face, he alluded to as a "county magnate."

It was from other sources that Jeannie knew how modest this account was,
and at the end-- "Tom, you're a brick!" she said.

He laughed. "Didn't know it," he said. "But the man who went fishing
caught something after all, in that case."***** Daisy came into her
aunt's room when the women went upstairs that night for a talk. She
was radiantly in love, but it was a different Daisy from her who
had made so many plans and known her own mind so well a year ago.

"I know Willie has a cold," she said, "but men are so tiresome.

They won't take reasonable care of themselves. Don't you think he looked
rather run down, Aunt Jeannie?"

"Not the very slightest, I am afraid."

"How horrid of you!

Oh, Aunt Jeannie, what a nice world!" Daisy settled herself on the
floor by her aunt's chair, and possessed herself of her hand.

"And to think that till less than a year ago I was quite, quite blind,"
she said.

"I always loved you, I think, but I am so different now. What has
happened, do you think?"

"I think you have grown up, my dear," said Jeannie. "I suppose it may be that. I wonder how it
happens.

Do you think one grows up from inside, or does something come from outside to make one?" "Surely
it is a combination of the two.

It is with us as it is with plants.

From outside comes the rain and the sun, which make them grow, but
all the same it is from within that this growth comes, so that they
put forth leaves and flowers."

Daisy sighed. "What a lot of time I wasted," she said.

"To think that Willie was waiting so long before I could see him
as he was.

Yes, I know what the sun and the rain were in my case. They were you, you
darling, when for my sake and poor Diana's you did what you did."

"Ah, my dear," said Jeannie, "we need not speak of that."

"But I want to just once-- just to tell you that it was you who opened
my eyes.

And it wasn't my eyes alone you opened. It was his too-- Tom's, I mean.
He knows that, and he told me so." "That is quite enough about me,"
said Jeannie, with decision.

"Daisy, I wish Tom would marry. Can't we find some nice girl for him?"
"Oh, we can find a hundred nice girls for him," said Daisy, "and
he will respectfully reject them all.

He doesn't want any nice girl. Oh, Aunt Jeannie, why shouldn't I say it? He's in love with you. I
think he always will be. Some people might call it sad, but I don't
think it is at all.

The thought of you makes him so tremendously happy."

Daisy plaited Jeannie's long white fingers in with her own. "I think it's one of the nicest things
that ever happened," she said. "It's like some old legend of a man
who has-- well, racketed about all his life, and then suddenly finds
his ideal, which, though she is quite out of reach, entirely satisfies
him.

He is so fond of Uncle Victor too. That's so nice of him, and so
natural, since Uncle Victor is your husband.

It's just what the man in the legend would do."

Jeannie gave a long, happy sigh. "Oh, I thank Heaven for my friends,"
she said.

"They thank Heaven for you," said Daisy softly.***** April continued to behave with incredible
amiability, and superb and sunny weather blessed Lady Nottingham's
rash experiment.

Everywhere the spring triumphed; on the chestnut trees below which Jeannie
and Lord Lindfield had sat on the afternoon of the thunderstorm last
year a million glutinous buds swelled and burst into delicate five-fingered
hands of milky green; and on the beech-trunks was spread the soft
green powder of minute mosses.

The new grass of the year was shooting up between the older spikes,
making a soft and short-piled velvet, on which the clumps of yellow
crocuses broke like the dancing reflection of sun on water.

Daffodils danced, too, in shady places, a company of nymphs, and the celandines were like the burnished
gold of some illuminated manuscript of spring.

And all these tokens of the renewed and triumphant life of the world
were but the setting to that company of happy hearts assembled by
the Thames'side.

The time of the singing bird had come, and their hearts were in tune
with it.

The little party, so it had been originally planned, were to disperse
on the Wednesday after Easter, but on the Tuesday various secret conferences
were held, and with much formality a round-robin was signed and presented
to Lady Nottingham, stating that her guests were so much pleased with
their quarters that they unanimously wished to stop an extra day.

So they stopped an extra day, another day of burgeoning spring, and
were very content.

Tom was content also next morning, for he went with Jeannie to her
home.

THE END.***** ESTABLISHED 1798 T. NELSON AND SONS PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS
Notes on Nelson's New Novels.

No work of unwholesome character or of second-rate quality will be included in this Series. The novel
is to-day the popular form of literary art. This is proved by the number of novels published, and
by the enormous sales of fiction at popular prices.

While Reprints of fiction may be purchased for a few pence, New Fiction
is still a luxury.

The author of a New Novel loses his larger audience, the public are
denied the privilege of enjoying his latest work, because of the prohibitive
price of 4s.

6d. demanded for the ordinary "six shilling" novel.

In another way both author and public are badly served under the
present publishing system.

At certain seasons a flood of new novels pours from the press.

Selection becomes almost impossible.

The good novels are lost among the indifferent and the bad. Good service
can be done to literature not only by reducing the price of fiction,
but by sifting its quality.

The number of publishers issuing new fiction is so great, that the entrance of another firm into
the field demands almost an apology-- at least, a word of explanation.
Messrs. Nelson have been pioneers in the issue of reprints of fiction
in Library Edition at Sevenpence. The success of Nelson's Library
has been due to the careful selection of books, regular publication
throughout the whole year, and excellence of manufacture at a low
cost, due to perfection of machinery.

Nelson's Sevenpenny Library represents the best that can be given to the public in the way of Reprints
under present manufacturing conditions. Nelson's New Novels (of which this book is one of the first
volumes) represents the same standard of careful selection, excellence of production, and lowest
possible price applied to New Fiction.

The list of authors of Nelson's New Novels for 1910 includes Anthony Hope, E. F. Benson, H. A. Vachell,
H. G. Wells, "Q," G. A. Birmingham, John Masefield, Mrs. W. K. Clifford, J. C. Snaith, John Buchan,
and Agnes and Egerton Castle.

Arrangements for subsequent volumes have been made with other authors of equally high standing.
Nelson's New Novels are of the ordinary "six shilling" size, but
are produced with greater care than most of their competitors. They
are printed in large, clear type, on a fine white paper. They are
strongly bound in green cloth with a white and gold design.

They are decorated with a pretty end-paper and a coloured frontispiece.
All the volumes are issued in bright wrappers. The books are a happy
combination of substantial and artistic qualities.

A new volume is issued regularly every month.

The price is the very lowest at which a large New Novel with good
material and workmanship, and with an adequate return to author, bookseller,
and publisher, can be offered to the public at the present time.*****
Descriptive Notes on the Volumes for 1910:-- SECOND STRING.

Anthony Hope.

This
brilliant social comedy contains all the qualities which have given
Anthony Hope his unique reputation as a historian of modern life.

He introduces us to the society of the little country town of Meriton,
the tradespeople, the loungers in the inn parlour, the neighbouring
farmers and squires, and especially to Harry Belfield, the mirror
of fashion in the county and candidate for its representation in
Parliament.

We see also his former school friend, Andy Hayes, who has returned
from lumbering in Canada to make a living at home.

The
motif of the tale is the unconscious competition of the two friends, of
whom Andy is very willing to play "second fiddle," did not character
and brains force him to the front.

The young squire of Halton is too selfish and capricious
to succeed, and in spite of his loyalty to friendship, Andy finds
himself driven to take his place both in love and in politics.

A host of characters cross
the stage, and the scene flits between Meriton and London.

The
book is so light in touch, so shrewd in its observation, so robust and
yet so kindly in its humour, that it must be accorded the highest rank
among Anthony Hope's works-- which is to say, the first place among
modern social comedies.

FORTUNE.
J. C. Snaith. Mr. J. C. Snaith is already known to fame by his historical
novels, his admirable cricketing story, his essay in Meredithan subtlety
"Brooke of Covenden," and his most successful Victorian comedy "Araminta."
In his new novel he breaks ground which has never before been touched
by an English novelist. He follows no less a leader than Cervantes. His
hero, Sir Richard Pendragon, is Sir John Falstaff grown athletic
and courageous, with his imagination fired by much adventure in far
countries and some converse with the knight of La Mancha.

The doings of this monstrous Englishman are narrated by a
young and scandalized Spanish squire, full of all the pedantry of
chivalry.

Sir Richard is a new type
in literature-- the Rabelaisian Paladin, whose foes flee not only
from his sword but from his Gargantuan laughter. In Mr. Snaith's romance
there are many delightful characters-- a Spanish lady who dictates
to armies, a French prince of the blood who has forsaken his birthright
for the highroad.

But all are dominated by the immense Sir Richard, who rights
wrongs like an unruly Providence, and then rides away. THE HISTORY OF MR.
POLLY.

H. G. Wells. If the true aim of romance is to find beauty
and laughter and heroism in odd places, then Mr. Wells is a great
romantic. His heroes are not knights and adventurers, not even members
of the quasi-romantic professions, but the ordinary small tradesmen,
whom the world has hitherto neglected.

The hero of the new book, Mr. Alfred Polly, is of the same school,
but he is nearer Hoopdriver than Kipps. He is in the last resort the
master of his fate, and squares himself defiantly against the Destinies.


The meal ended, fresh armfuls of wood were thrown on the fire, and the inhabitants of the Chimneys,
including the faithful Top, were soon buried in a deep sleep.

No incident disturbed this peaceful night, and the next day, the 29th of March, fresh and active
they awoke, ready to undertake the excursion which must determine their fate.

All was ready for the start. The remains of the capybara would be enough to sustain Harding
and his companions for at least twenty-four hours.

Besides, they hoped to find more food on the way. As the glasses had been returned to the watches
of the engineer and reporter, Pencroft burned a little linen to serve as tinder. As to flint,
that would not be wanting in these regions of Plutonic origin. It was half-past seven in the
morning when the explorers, armed with sticks, left the Chimneys. Following Pencroft's advice,
it appeared best to take the road already traversed through the forest, and to return by another
route. It was also the most direct way to reach the mountain. They turned the south angle and
followed the left bank of the river, which was abandoned at the point where it formed an elbow
towards the southwest. The path, already trodden under the evergreen trees, was found, and
at nine o'clock Cyrus Harding and his companions had reached the western border of the forest.
The ground, till then, very little undulated, boggy at first, dry and sandy afterwards, had
a gentle slope, which ascended from the shore towards the interior of the country. A few very
timid animals were seen under the forest-trees. Top quickly started them, but his master soon
called him back, for the time had not come to commence hunting; that would be attended to later.
The engineer was not a man who would allow himself to be diverted from his fixed idea. It might
even have been said that he did not observe the country at all, either in its configuration
or in its natural productions, his great aim being to climb the mountain before him, and therefore
straight towards it he went. At ten o'clock a halt of a few minutes was made. On leaving the
forest, the mountain system of the country appeared before the explorers. The mountain was
composed of two cones; the first, truncated at a height of about two thousand five hundred
feet, was sustained by buttresses, which appeared to branch out like the talons of an immense
claw set on the ground. Between these were narrow valleys, bristling with trees, the last clumps
of which rose to the top of the lowest cone. There appeared to be less vegetation on that side
of the mountain which was exposed to the northeast, and deep fissures could be seen which,
no doubt, were watercourses.

On the first cone rested a second, slightly rounded, and placed a little on one side, like
a great round hat cocked over the ear. A Scotchman would have said, "His bonnet was a thocht
ajee." It appeared formed of bare earth, here and there pierced by reddish rocks.

They wished to reach the second cone, and proceeding along the ridge of the spurs seemed to
be the best way by which to gain it.

"We are on volcanic ground," Cyrus Harding had said, and his companions following him began
to ascend by degrees on the back of a spur, which, by a winding and consequently more accessible
path, joined the first plateau.

The ground had evidently been convulsed by subterranean force. Here and there stray blocks,
numerous debris of basalt and pumice-stone, were met with. In isolated groups rose fir-trees,
which, some hundred feet lower, at the bottom of the narrow gorges, formed massive shades almost
impenetrable to the sun's rays.

During the first part of the ascent, Herbert remarked on the footprints which indicated the
recent passage of large animals.

"Perhaps these beasts will not let us pass by willingly," said Pencroft.

"Well," replied the reporter, who had already hunted the tiger in India, and the lion in Africa,
"we shall soon learn how successfully to encounter them. But in the meantime we must be upon
our guard!"

They ascended but slowly.

The distance, increased by detours and obstacles which could not be surmounted directly, was
long. Sometimes, too, the ground suddenly fell, and they found themselves on the edge of a
deep chasm which they had to go round. Thus, in retracing their steps so as to find some practicable
path, much time was employed and fatigue undergone for nothing. At twelve o'clock, when the
small band of adventurers halted for breakfast at the foot of a large group of firs, near a
little stream which fell in cascades, they found themselves still half way from the first plateau,
which most probably they would not reach till nightfall. From this point the view of the sea
was much extended, but on the right the high promontory prevented their seeing whether there
was land beyond it. On the left, the sight extended several miles to the north; but, on the
northwest, at the point occupied by the explorers, it was cut short by the ridge of a fantastically-shaped
spur, which formed a powerful support of the central cone.

At one o'clock the ascent was continued. They slanted more towards the southwest and again
entered among thick bushes. There under the shade of the trees fluttered several couples of
gallinaceae belonging to the pheasant species. They were tragopans, ornamented by a pendant
skin which hangs over their throats, and by two small, round horns, planted behind the eyes.
Among these birds, which were about the size of a fowl, the female was uniformly brown, while
the male was gorgeous in his red plumage, decorated with white spots. Gideon Spilett, with
a stone cleverly and vigorously thrown, killed one of these tragopans, on which Pencroft, made
hungry by the fresh air, had cast greedy eyes.

After leaving the region of bushes, the party, assisted by resting on each other's shoulders,
climbed for about a hundred feet up a steep acclivity and reached a level place, with very
few trees, where the soil appeared volcanic. It was necessary to ascend by zigzags to make
the slope more easy, for it was very steep, and the footing being exceedingly precarious required
the greatest caution. Neb and Herbert took the lead, Pencroft the rear, the captain and the
reporter between them. The animals which frequented these heights--and there were numerous
traces of them--must necessarily belong to those races of sure foot and supple spine, chamois
or goat. Several were seen, but this was not the name Pencroft gave them, for all of a sudden--"Sheep!"
he shouted.

All stopped about fifty feet from half-a-dozen animals of a large size, with strong horns bent
back and flattened towards the point, with a woolly fleece, hidden under long silky hair of
a tawny color.

They were not ordinary sheep, but a species usually found in the mountainous regions of the
temperate zone, to which Herbert gave the name of the musmon.

"Have they legs and chops?" asked the sailor.

"Yes," replied Herbert.

"Well, then, they are sheep!" said Pencroft.

The animals, motionless among the blocks of basalt, gazed with an astonished eye, as if they
saw human bipeds for the first time. Then their fears suddenly aroused, they disappeared, bounding
over the rocks.

"Good-bye, till we meet again," cried Pencroft, as he watched them, in such a comical tone
that Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, and Neb could not help laughing.

The ascent was continued. Here and there were traces of lava. Sulphur springs sometimes stopped
their way, and they had to go round them. In some places the sulphur had formed crystals among
other substances, such as whitish cinders made of an infinity of little feldspar crystals.

In approaching the first plateau formed by the truncating of the lower cone, the difficulties
of the ascent were very great. Towards four o'clock the extreme zone of the trees had been
passed. There only remained here and there a few twisted, stunted pines, which must have had
a hard life in resisting at this altitude the high winds from the open sea. Happily for the
engineer and his companions the weather was beautiful, the atmosphere tranquil; for a high
breeze at an elevation of three thousand feet would have hindered their proceedings. The purity
of the sky at the zenith was felt through the transparent air. A perfect calm reigned around
them. They could not see the sun, then hid by the vast screen of the upper cone, which masked
the half-horizon of the west, and whose enormous shadow stretching to the shore increased as
the radiant luminary sank in its diurnal course. Vapor--mist rather than clouds--began to appear
in the east, and assume all the prismatic colors under the influence of the solar rays.

Five hundred feet only separated the explorers from the plateau, which they wished to reach
so as to establish there an encampment for the night, but these five hundred feet were increased
to more than two miles by the zigzags which they had to describe. The soil, as it were, slid
under their feet.

The slope often presented such an angle that they slipped when the stones worn by the air did
not give a sufficient support. Evening came on by degrees, and it was almost night when Cyrus
Harding and his companions, much fatigued by an ascent of seven hours, arrived at the plateau
of the first cone. It was then necessary to prepare an encampment, and to restore their strength
by eating first and sleeping afterwards. This second stage of the mountain rose on a base of
rocks, among which it would be easy to find a retreat. Fuel was not abundant. However, a fire
could be made by means of the moss and dry brushwood, which covered certain parts of the plateau.
While the sailor was preparing his hearth with stones which he put to this use, Neb and Herbert
occupied themselves with getting a supply of fuel. They soon returned with a load of brushwood.
The steel was struck, the burnt linen caught the sparks of flint, and, under Neb's breath,
a crackling fire showed itself in a few minutes under the shelter of the rocks. Their object
in lighting a fire was only to enable them to withstand the cold temperature of the night,
as it was not employed in cooking the bird, which Neb kept for the next day. The remains of
the capybara and some dozens of the stone-pine almonds formed their supper. It was not half-past
six when all was finished.

Cyrus Harding then thought of exploring in the half-light the large circular layer which supported
the upper cone of the mountain. Before taking any rest, he wished to know if it was possible
to get round the base of the cone in the case of its sides being too steep and its summit being
inaccessible. This question preoccupied him, for it was possible that from the way the hat
inclined, that is to say, towards the north, the plateau was not practicable. Also, if the
summit of the mountain could not be reached on one side, and if, on the other, they could not
get round the base of the cone, it would be impossible to survey the western part of the country,
and their object in making the ascent would in part be altogether unattained.

The engineer, accordingly, regardless of fatigue, leaving Pencroft and Neb to arrange the beds,
and Gideon Spilett to note the incidents of the day, began to follow the edge of the plateau,
going towards the north. Herbert accompanied him.

The night was beautiful and still, the darkness was not yet deep. Cyrus Harding and the boy
walked near each other, without speaking. In some places the plateau opened before them, and
they passed without hindrance. In others, obstructed by rocks, there was only a narrow path,
in which two persons could not walk abreast. After a walk of twenty minutes, Cyrus Harding
and Herbert were obliged to stop. From this point the slope of the two cones became one. No
shoulder here separated the two parts of the mountain. The slope, being inclined almost seventy
degrees, the path became impracticable.

But if the engineer and the boy were obliged to give up thoughts of following a circular direction,
in return an opportunity was given for ascending the cone.

In fact, before them opened a deep hollow. It was the rugged mouth of the crater, by which
the eruptive liquid matter had escaped at the periods when the volcano was still in activity.
Hardened lava and crusted scoria formed a sort of natural staircase of large steps, which would
greatly facilitate the ascent to the summit of the mountain.

Harding took all this in at a glance, and without hesitating, followed by the lad, he entered
the enormous chasm in the midst of an increasing obscurity.

There was still a height of a thousand feet to overcome. Would the interior acclivities of
the crater be practicable? It would soon be seen. The persevering engineer resolved to continue
his ascent until he was stopped. Happily these acclivities wound up the interior of the volcano
and favored their ascent.

As to the volcano itself, it could not be doubted that it was completely extinct. No smoke
escaped from its sides; not a flame could be seen in the dark hollows; not a roar, not a mutter,
no trembling even issued from this black well, which perhaps reached far into the bowels of
the earth. The atmosphere inside the crater was filled with no sulphurous vapor. It was more
than the sleep of a volcano; it was its complete extinction. Cyrus Harding's attempt would succeed.

Little by little, Herbert and he climbing up the sides of the interior, saw the crater widen
above their heads. The radius of this circular portion of the sky, framed by the edge of the
cone, increased obviously. At each step, as it were, that the explorers made, fresh stars entered
the field of their vision. The magnificent constellations of the southern sky shone resplendently.
At the zenith glittered the splendid Antares in the Scorpion, and not far was Alpha Centauri,
which is believed to be the nearest star to the terrestrial globe. Then, as the crater widened,
appeared Fomalhaut of the Fish, the Southern Triangle, and lastly, nearly at the Antarctic
Pole, the glittering Southern Cross, which replaces the Polar Star of the Northern Hemisphere.

It was nearly eight o'clock when Cyrus Harding and Herbert set foot on the highest ridge of
the mountain at the summit of the cone.

It was then perfectly dark, and their gaze could not extend over a radius of two miles. Did
the sea surround this unknown land, or was it connected in the west with some continent of
the Pacific? It could not yet be made out. Towards the west, a cloudy belt, clearly visible
at the horizon, increased the gloom, and the eye could not discover if the sky and water were
blended together in the same circular line.

But at one point of the horizon a vague light suddenly appeared, which descended slowly in
proportion as the cloud mounted to the zenith.

It was the slender crescent moon, already almost disappearing; but its light was sufficient
to show clearly the horizontal line, then detached from the cloud, and the engineer could see
its reflection trembling for an instant on a liquid surface. Cyrus Harding seized the lad's
hand, and in a grave voice,--

"An island!" said he, at the moment when the lunar crescent disappeared beneath the waves.

Chapter 11

Half an hour later Cyrus Harding and Herbert had returned to the encampment. The engineer merely
told his companions that the land upon which fate had thrown them was an island, and that the
next day they would consult. Then each settled himself as well as he could to sleep, and in
that rocky hole, at a height of two thousand five hundred feet above the level of the sea,
through a peaceful night, the islanders enjoyed profound repose.

The next day, the 30th of March, after a hasty breakfast, which consisted solely of the roasted
tragopan, the engineer wished to climb again to the summit of the volcano, so as more attentively
to survey the island upon which he and his companions were imprisoned for life perhaps, should
the island be situated at a great distance from any land, or if it was out of the course of
vessels which visited the archipelagoes of the Pacific Ocean. This time his companions followed
him in the new exploration. They also wished to see the island, on the productions of which
they must depend for the supply of all their wants.

It was about seven o'clock in the morning when Cyrus Harding, Herbert, Pencroft, Gideon Spilett,
and Neb quitted the encampment. No one appeared to be anxious about their situation. They had
faith in themselves, doubtless, but it must be observed that the basis of this faith was not
the same with Harding as with his companions. The engineer had confidence, because he felt
capable of extorting from this wild country everything necessary for the life of himself and
his companions; the latter feared nothing, just because Cyrus Harding was with them. Pencroft
especially, since the incident of the relighted fire, would not have despaired for an instant,
even if he was on a bare rock, if the engineer was with him on the rock.

"Pshaw," said he, "we left Richmond without permission from the authorities! It will be hard
if we don't manage to get away some day or other from a place where certainly no one will detain
us!"

Cyrus Harding followed the same road as the evening before. They went round the cone by the
plateau which formed the shoulder, to the mouth of the enormous chasm. The weather was magnificent.
The sun rose in a pure sky and flooded with his rays all the eastern side of the mountain.

The crater was reached. It was just what the engineer had made it out to be in the dark; that
is to say, a vast funnel which extended, widening, to a height of a thousand feet above the
plateau. Below the chasm, large thick streaks of lava wound over the sides of the mountain,
and thus marked the course of the eruptive matter to the lower valleys which furrowed the northern
part of the island.

The interior of the crater, whose inclination did not exceed thirty five to forty degrees,
presented no difficulties nor obstacles to the ascent. Traces of very ancient lava were noticed,
which probably had overflowed the summit of the cone, before this lateral chasm had opened
a new way to it.

As to the volcanic chimney which established a communication between the subterranean layers
and the crater, its depth could not be calculated with the eye, for it was lost in obscurity.
But there was no doubt as to the complete extinction of the volcano.

Before eight o'clock Harding and his companions were assembled at the summit of the crater,
on a conical mound which swelled the northern edge.

"The sea, the sea everywhere!" they cried, as if their lips could not restrain the words which
made islanders of them.

The sea, indeed, formed an immense circular sheet of water all around them! Perhaps, on climbing
again to the summit of the cone, Cyrus Harding had had a hope of discovering some coast, some
island shore, which he had not been able to perceive in the dark the evening before. But nothing
appeared on the farthest verge of the horizon, that is to say over a radius of more than fifty
miles. No land in sight. Not a sail. Over all this immense space the ocean alone was visible--the
island occupied the center of a circumference which appeared to be infinite.

The engineer and his companions, mute and motionless, surveyed for some minutes every point
of the ocean, examining it to its most extreme limits. Even Pencroft, who possessed a marvelous
power of sight, saw nothing; and certainly if there had been land at the horizon, if it appeared
only as an indistinct vapor, the sailor would undoubtedly have found it out, for nature had
placed regular telescopes under his eyebrows.

From the ocean their gaze returned to the island which they commanded entirely, and the first
question was put by Gideon Spilett in these terms:

"About what size is this island?"

Truly, it did not appear large in the midst of the immense ocean.

Cyrus Harding reflected a few minutes; he attentively observed the perimeter of the island,
taking into consideration the height at which he was placed; then,--

"My friends," said he, "I do not think I am mistaken in giving to the shore of the island a
circumference of more than a hundred miles."

"And consequently an area?"

"That is difficult to estimate," replied the engineer, "for it is so uneven."

If Cyrus Harding was not mistaken in his calculation, the island had almost the extent of Malta
or Zante, in the Mediterranean, but it was at the same time much more irregular and less rich
in capes, promontories, points, bays, or creeks. Its strange form caught the eye, and when
Gideon Spilett, on the engineer's advice, had drawn the outline, they found that it resembled
some fantastic animal, a monstrous leviathan, which lay sleeping on the surface of the Pacific.

This was in fact the exact shape of the island, which it is of consequence to know, and a tolerably
correct map of it was immediately drawn by the reporter.

The east part of the shore, where the castaways had landed, formed a wide bay, terminated by
a sharp cape, which had been concealed by a high point from Pencroft on his first exploration.
At the northeast two other capes closed the bay, and between them ran a narrow gulf, which
looked like the half-open jaws of a formidable dog-fish.

From the northeast to the southwest the coast was rounded, like the flattened cranium of an
animal, rising again, forming a sort of protuberance which did not give any particular shape
to this part of the island, of which the center was occupied by the volcano.

From this point the shore ran pretty regularly north and south, broken at two-thirds of its
perimeter by a narrow creek, from which it ended in a long tail, similar to the caudal appendage
of a gigantic alligator.

This tail formed a regular peninsula, which stretched more than thirty miles into the sea,
reckoning from the cape southeast of the island, already mentioned; it curled round, making
an open roadstead, which marked out the lower shore of this strangely-formed land.

At the narrowest part, that is to say between the Chimneys and the creek on the western shore,
which corresponded to it in latitude, the island only measured ten miles; but its greatest
length, from the jaws at the northeast to the extremity of the tail of the southwest, was not
less than thirty miles.

As to the interior of the island, its general aspect was this, very woody throughout the southern
part from the mountain to the shore, and arid and sandy in the northern part. Between the volcano
and the east coast Cyrus Harding and his companions were surprised to see a lake, bordered
with green trees, the existence of which they had not suspected. Seen from this height, the
lake appeared to be on the same level as the ocean, but, on reflection, the engineer explained
to his companions that the altitude of this little sheet of water must be about three hundred
feet, because the plateau, which was its basin, was but a prolongation of the coast.

"Is it a freshwater lake?" asked Pencroft.

"Certainly," replied the engineer, "for it must be fed by the water which flows from the mountain."

"I see a little river which runs into it," said Herbert, pointing out a narrow stream, which
evidently took its source somewhere in the west.

"Yes," said Harding; "and since this stream feeds the lake, most probably on the side near
the sea there is an outlet by which the surplus water escapes. We shall see that on our return."

This little winding watercourse and the river already mentioned constituted the water-system,
at least such as it was displayed to the eyes of the explorers. However, it was possible that
under the masses of trees which covered two-thirds of the island, forming an immense forest,
other rivers ran towards the sea. It might even be inferred that such was the case, so rich
did this region appear in the most magnificent specimens of the flora of the temperate zones.
There was no indication of running water in the north, though perhaps there might be stagnant
water among the marshes in the northeast; but that was all, in addition to the downs, sand,
and aridity which contrasted so strongly with the luxuriant vegetation of the rest of the island.

The volcano did not occupy the central part; it rose, on the contrary, in the northwestern
region, and seemed to mark the boundary of the two zones. At the southwest, at the south, and
the southeast, the first part of the spurs were hidden under masses of verdure. At the north,
on the contrary, one could follow their ramifications, which died away on the sandy plains.
It was on this side that, at the time when the mountain was in a state of eruption, the discharge
had worn away a passage, and a large heap of lava had spread to the narrow jaw which formed
the northeastern gulf.

Cyrus Harding and his companions remained an hour at the top of the mountain. The island was
displayed under their eyes, like a plan in relief with different tints, green for the forests,
yellow for the sand, blue for the water. They viewed it in its tout-ensemble, nothing remained
concealed but the ground hidden by verdure, the hollows of the valleys, and the interior of
the volcanic chasms.

One important question remained to be solved, and the answer would have a great effect upon
the future of the castaways.

Was the island inhabited?

It was the reporter who put this question, to which after the close examination they had just
made, the answer seemed to be in the negative.

Nowhere could the work of a human hand be perceived. Not a group of huts, not a solitary cabin,
not a fishery on the shore. No smoke curling in the air betrayed the presence of man. It is
true, a distance of nearly thirty miles separated the observers from the extreme points, that
is, of the tail which extended to the southwest, and it would have been difficult, even to
Pencroft's eyes, to discover a habitation there. Neither could the curtain of verdure, which
covered three-quarters of the island, be raised to see if it did not shelter some straggling
village. But in general the islanders live on the shores of the narrow spaces which emerge
above the waters of the Pacific, and this shore appeared to be an absolute desert.

Until a more complete exploration, it might be admitted that the island was uninhabited. But
was it frequented, at least occasionally, by the natives of neighboring islands? It was difficult
to reply to this question. No land appeared within a radius of fifty miles. But fifty miles
could be easily crossed, either by Malay proas or by the large Polynesian canoes. Everything
depended on the position of the island, of its isolation in the Pacific, or of its proximity
to archipelagoes. Would Cyrus Harding be able to find out their latitude and longitude without
instruments? It would be difficult. Since he was in doubt, it was best to take precautions
against a possible descent of neighboring natives.

The exploration of the island was finished, its shape determined, its features made out, its
extent calculated, the water and mountain systems ascertained. The disposition of the forests
and plains had been marked in a general way on the reporter's plan. They had now only to descend
the mountain slopes again, and explore the soil, in the triple point of view, of its mineral,
vegetable, and animal resources.

But before giving his companions the signal for departure, Cyrus Harding said to them in a
calm, grave voice,--

"Here, my friends, is the small corner of land upon which the hand of the Almighty has thrown
us. We are going to live here; a long time, perhaps. Perhaps, too, unexpected help will arrive,
if some ship passes by chance. I say by chance, because this is an unimportant island; there
is not even a port in which ships could anchor, and it is to be feared that it is situated
out of the route usually followed, that is to say, too much to the south for the ships which
frequent the archipelagoes of the Pacific, and too much to the north for those which go to
Australia by doubling Cape Horn. I wish to hide nothing of our position from you--"

"And you are right, my dear Cyrus," replied the reporter, with animation. "You have to deal
with men. They have confidence in you, and you can depend upon them. Is it not so, my friends?"

"I will obey you in everything, captain," said Herbert, seizing the engineer's hand.

"My master always, and everywhere!" cried Neb.

"As for me," said the sailor, "if I ever grumble at work, my name's not Jack Pencroft, and
if you like, captain, we will make a little America of this island! We will build towns, we
will establish railways, start telegraphs, and one fine day, when it is quite changed, quite
put in order and quite civilized, we will go and offer it to the government of the Union. Only,
I ask one thing."

"What is that?" said the reporter.

"It is, that we do not consider ourselves castaways, but colonists, who have come here to settle."
Harding could not help smiling, and the sailor's idea was adopted. He then thanked his companions,
and added, that he would rely on their energy and on the aid of Heaven.

"Well, now let us set off to the Chimneys!" cried Pencroft.

"One minute, my friends," said the engineer. "It seems to me it would be a good thing to give
a name to this island, as well as to, the capes, promontories, and watercourses, which we can see.

"Very good," said the reporter. "In the future, that will simplify the instructions which we
shall have to give and follow."

"Indeed," said the sailor, "already it is something to be able to say where one is going, and
where one has come from. At least, it looks like somewhere."

"The Chimneys, for example," said Herbert.

"Exactly!" replied Pencroft. "That name was the most convenient, and it came to me quite of
myself. Shall we keep the name of the Chimneys for our first encampment, captain?"

"Yes, Pencroft, since you have so christened it."

"Good! as for the others, that will be easy," returned the sailor, who was in high spirits.
"Let us give them names, as the Robinsons did, whose story Herbert has often read to me; Providence
Bay, Whale Point, Cape Disappointment!"

"Or, rather, the names of Captain Harding," said Herbert, "of Mr. Spilett, of Neb!--"

"My name!" cried Neb, showing his sparkling white teeth.

"Why not?" replied Pencroft. "Port Neb, that would do very well! And Cape Gideon--"

"I should prefer borrowing names from our country," said the reporter, "which would remind
us of America."

"Yes, for the principal ones," then said Cyrus Harding; "for those of the bays and seas, I
admit it willingly. We might give to that vast bay on the east the name of Union Bay, for example;
to that large hollow on the south, Washington Bay; to the mountain upon which we are standing,
that of Mount Franklin; to that lake which is extended under our eyes, that of Lake Grant;
nothing could be better, my friends. These names will recall our country, and those of the
great citizens who have honored it; but for the rivers, gulfs, capes, and promontories, which
we perceive from the top of this mountain, rather let us choose names which will recall their
particular shape. They will impress themselves better on our memory, and at the same time will
be more practical. The shape of the island is so strange that we shall not be troubled to imagine
what it resembles. As to the streams which we do not know as yet, in different parts of the
forest which we shall explore later, the creeks which afterwards will he discovered, we can
christen them as we find them. What do you think, my friends?"

The engineer's proposal was unanimously agreed to by his companions. The island was spread
out under their eyes like a map, and they had only to give names to all its angles and points.
Gideon Spilett would write them down, and the geographical nomenclature of the island would
be definitely adopted. First, they named the two bays and the mountain, Union Bay, Washington
Bay, and Mount Franklin, as the engineer had suggested.

"Now," said the reporter, "to this peninsula at the southwest of the island, I propose to give
the name of Serpentine Peninsula, and that of Reptile-end to the bent tail which terminates
it, for it is just like a reptile's tail."

"Adopted," said the engineer.

"Now," said Herbert, pointing to the other extremity of the island, "let us call this gulf
which is so singularly like a pair of open jaws, Shark Gulf."

"Capital!" cried Pencroft, "and we can complete the resemblance by naming the two parts of
the jaws Mandible Cape."

"But there are two capes," observed the reporter.

"Well," replied Pencroft, "we can have North Mandible Cape and South Mandible Cape."

"They are inscribed," said Spilett.

"There is only the point at the southeastern extremity of the island to be named," said Pencroft.

"That is, the extremity of Union Bay?" asked Herbert.

"Claw Cape," cried Neb directly, who also wished to be godfather to some part of his domain.

In truth, Neb had found an excellent name, for this cape was very like the powerful claw of
the fantastic animal which this singularly-shaped island represented.

Pencroft was delighted at the turn things had taken, and their imaginations soon gave to the
river which furnished the settlers with drinking water and near which the balloon had thrown
them, the name of the Mercy, in true gratitude to Providence. To the islet upon which the castaways
had first landed, the name of Safety Island; to the plateau which crowned the high granite
precipice above the Chimneys, and from whence the gaze could embrace the whole of the vast
bay, the name of Prospect Heights.

Lastly, all the masses of impenetrable wood which covered the Serpentine Peninsula were named
the forests of the Far West.

The nomenclature of the visible and known parts of the island was thus finished, and later,
they would complete it as they made fresh discoveries.

As to the points of the compass, the engineer had roughly fixed them by the height and position
of the sun, which placed Union Bay and Prospect Heights to the east. But the next day, by taking
the exact hour of the rising and setting of the sun, and by marking its position between this
rising and setting, he reckoned to fix the north of the island exactly, for, in consequence
of its situation in the Southern Hemisphere, the sun, at the precise moment of its culmination,
passed in the north and not in the south, as, in its apparent movement, it seems to do, to
those places situated in the Northern Hemisphere.

Everything was finished, and the settlers had only to descend Mount Franklin to return to the
Chimneys, when Pencroft cried out,--

"Well! we are preciously stupid!"

"Why?" asked Gideon Spilett, who had closed his notebook and risen to depart.

"Why! our island! we have forgotten to christen it!"

Herbert was going to propose to give it the engineer's name and all his companions would have
applauded him, when Cyrus Harding said simply,--

"Let us give it the name of a great citizen, my friend; of him who now struggles to defend
the unity of the American Republic! Let us call it Lincoln Island!"

The engineer's proposal was replied to by three hurrahs.

And that evening, before sleeping, the new colonists talked of their absent country; they spoke
of the terrible war which stained it with blood; they could not doubt that the South would
soon be subdued, and that the cause of the North, the cause of justice, would triumph, thanks
to Grant, thanks to Lincoln!

Now this happened the 30th of March, 1865. They little knew that sixteen days afterwards a
frightful crime would be committed in Washington, and that on Good Friday Abraham Lincoln would
fall by the hand of a fanatic.

Chapter 12

They now began the descent of the mountain. Climbing down the crater, they went round the cone
and reached their encampment of the previous night. Pencroft thought it must be breakfast-time,
and the watches of the reporter and engineer were therefore consulted to find out the hour.

That of Gideon Spilett had been preserved from the sea-water, as he had been thrown at once
on the sand out of reach of the waves. It was an instrument of excellent quality, a perfect
pocket chronometer, which the reporter had not forgotten to wind up carefully every day.

As to the engineer's watch, it, of course, had stopped during the time which he had passed
on the downs.

The engineer now wound it up, and ascertaining by the height of the sun that it must be about
nine o'clock in the morning, he put his watch at that hour.

"No, my dear Spilett, wait. You have kept the Richmond time, have you not?"

"Yes, Cyrus."

"Consequently, your watch is set by the meridian of that town, which is almost that of Washington?"

"Undoubtedly."

"Very well, keep it thus. Content yourself with winding it up very, exactly, but do not touch
the hands. This may be of use to us.

"What will be the good of that?" thought the sailor.

They ate, and so heartily, that the store of game and almonds was totally exhausted. But Pencroft
was not at all uneasy, they would supply themselves on the way. Top, whose share had been very
much to his taste, would know how to find some fresh game among the brushwood. Moreover, the
sailor thought of simply asking the engineer to manufacture some powder and one or two fowling-pieces;
he supposed there would be no difficulty in that.

On leaving the plateau, the captain proposed to his companions to return to the Chimneys by
a new way. He wished to reconnoiter Lake Grant, so magnificently framed in trees. They therefore
followed the crest of one of the spurs, between which the creek that supplied the lake probably
had its source. In talking, the settlers already employed the names which they had just chosen,
which singularly facilitated the exchange of their ideas. Herbert and Pencroft--the one young
and the other very boyish--were enchanted, and while walking, the sailor said,

"Hey, Herbert! how capital it sounds! It will be impossible to lose ourselves, my boy, since,
whether we follow the way to Lake Grant, or whether we join the Mercy through the woods of
the Far West, we shall be certain to arrive at Prospect Heights, and, consequently, at Union Bay!"

It had been agreed, that without forming a compact band, the settlers should not stray away
from each other. It was very certain that the thick forests of the island were inhabited by
dangerous animals, and it was prudent to be on their guard. In general, Pencroft, Herbert,
and Neb walked first, preceded by Top, who poked his nose into every bush. The reporter and
the engineer went together, Gideon Spilett ready to note every incident, the engineer silent
for the most part, and only stepping aside to pick up one thing or another, a mineral or vegetable
substance, which he put into his pocket, without making any remark.

"What can he be picking up?" muttered Pencroft. "I have looked in vain for anything that's
worth the trouble of stooping for."

Towards ten o'clock the little band descended the last declivities of Mount Franklin. As yet
the ground was scantily strewn with bushes and trees. They were walking over yellowish calcinated
earth, forming a plain of nearly a mile long, which extended to the edge of the wood. Great
blocks of that basalt, which, according to Bischof, takes three hundred and fifty millions
of years to cool, strewed the plain, very confused in some places. However, there were here
no traces of lava, which was spread more particularly over the northern slopes.

Cyrus Harding expected to reach, without incident, the course of the creek, which he supposed
flowed under the trees at the border of the plain, when he saw Herbert running hastily back,
while Neb and the sailor were hiding behind the rocks.

"What's the matter, my boy?" asked Spilett.

"Smoke," replied Herbert. "We have seen smoke among the rocks, a hundred paces from us."

"Men in this place?" cried the reporter.

"We must avoid showing ourselves before knowing with whom we have to deal," replied Cyrus Harding.
"I trust that there are no natives on this island; I dread them more than anything else. Where
is Top?"

"Top is on before."

"And he doesn't bark?"

"No."

"That is strange. However, we must try to call him back."

In a few moments, the engineer, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert had rejoined their two companions,
and like them, they kept out of sight behind the heaps of basalt.

From thence they clearly saw smoke of a yellowish color rising in the air.

Top was recalled by a slight whistle from his master, and the latter, signing to his companions
to wait for him, glided away among the rocks. The colonists, motionless, anxiously awaited
the result of this exploration, when a shout from the engineer made them hasten forward. They
soon joined him, and were at once struck with a disagreeable odor which impregnated the atmosphere.

The odor, easily recognized, was enough for the engineer to guess what the smoke was which
at first, not without cause, had startled him.

"This fue," said he, "or rather, this smoke is produced by nature alone. There is a sulphur
spring there, which will cure all our sore throats."

"Captain!" cried Pencroft. "What a pity that I haven't got a cold!"

The settlers then directed their steps towards the place from which the smoke escaped. They
there saw a sulphur spring which flowed abundantly between the rocks, and its waters discharged
a strong sulphuric acid odor, after having absorbed the oxygen of the air.

Cyrus Harding, dipping in his hand, felt the water oily to the touch. He tasted it and found
it rather sweet. As to its temperature, that he estimated at ninety-five degrees Fahrenheit.
Herbert having asked on what he based this calculation,--

"Its quite simple, my boy," said he, "for, in plunging my hand into the water, I felt no sensation
either of heat or cold. Therefore it has the same temperature as the human body, which is about
ninety-five degrees."

The sulphur spring not being of any actual use to the settlers, they proceeded towards the
thick border of the forest, which began some hundred paces off.

There, as they had conjectured, the waters of the stream flowed clear and limpid between high
banks of red earth, the color of which betrayed the presence of oxide of iron. From this color,
the name of Red Creek was immediately given to the watercourse.

It was only a large stream, deep and clear, formed of the mountain water, which, half river,
half torrent, here rippling peacefully over the sand, there falling against the rocks or dashing
down in a cascade, ran towards the lake, over a distance of a mile and a half, its breadth
varying from thirty to forty feet. Its waters were sweet, and it was supposed that those of
the lake were so also. A fortunate circumstance, in the event of their finding on its borders
a more suitable dwelling than the Chimneys.

As to the trees, which some hundred feet downwards shaded the banks of the creek, they belonged,
for the most part, to the species which abound in the temperate zone of America and Tasmania,
and no longer to those coniferae observed in that portion of the island already explored to
some miles from Prospect Heights. At this time of the year, the commencement of the month of
April, which represents the month of October, in this hemisphere, that is, the beginning of
autumn, they were still in full leaf. They consisted principally of casuarinas and eucalypti,
some of which next year would yield a sweet manna, similar to the manna of the East. Clumps
of Australian cedars rose on the sloping banks, which were also covered with the high grass
called "tussac" in New Holland; but the cocoanut, so abundant in the archipelagoes of the Pacific,
seemed to be wanting in the island, the latitude, doubtless, being too low.

"What a pity!" said Herbert, "such a useful tree, and which has such beautiful nuts!"

As to the birds, they swarmed among the scanty branches of the eucalypti and casuarinas, which
did not hinder the display of their wings. Black, white, or gray cockatoos, paroquets, with
plumage of all colors, kingfishers of a sparkling green and crowned with red, blue lories,
and various other birds appeared on all sides, as through a prism, fluttering about and producing
a deafening clamor. Suddenly, a strange concert of discordant voices resounded in the midst
of a thicket. The settlers heard successively the song of birds, the cry of quadrupeds, and
a sort of clacking which they might have believed to have escaped from the lips of a native.
Neb and Herbert rushed towards the bush, forgetting even the most elementary principles of
prudence. Happily, they found there, neither a formidable wild beast nor a dangerous native,
but merely half a dozen mocking and singing birds, known as mountain pheasants. A few skillful
blows from a stick soon put an end to their concert, and procured excellent food for the evening's
dinner.

Herbert also discovered some magnificent pigeons with bronzed wings, some superbly crested,
others draped in green, like their congeners at Port-Macquarie; but it was impossible to reach
them, or the crows and magpies which flew away in flocks.

A charge of small shot would have made great slaughter among these birds, but the hunters were
still limited to sticks and stones, and these primitive weapons proved very insufficient.

Their insufficiency was still more clearly shown when a troop of quadrupeds, jumping, bounding,
making leaps of thirty feet, regular flying mammiferae, fled over the thickets, so quickly
and at such a height, that one would have thought that they passed from one tree to another
like squirrels.

"Kangaroos!" cried Herbert.

"Are they good to eat?" asked Pencroft.

"Stewed," replied the reporter, "their flesh is equal to the best venison!--"

Gideon Spilett had not finished this exciting sentence when the sailor, followed by Neb and
Herbert, darted on the kangaroos tracks. Cyrus Harding called them back in vain. But it was
in vain too for the hunters to pursue such agile game, which went bounding away like balls.
After a chase of five minutes, they lost their breath, and at the same time all sight of the
creatures, which disappeared in the wood. Top was not more successful than his masters.

"Captain," said Pencroft, when the engineer and the reporter had rejoined them, "Captain, you
see quite well we can't get on unless we make a few guns. Will that be possible?"

"Perhaps," replied the engineer, "but we will begin by first manufacturing some bows and arrows,
and I don't doubt that you will become as clever in the use of them as the Australian hunters."

"Bows and arrows!" said Pencroft scornfully. "That's all very well for children!"

"Don't be proud, friend Pencroft," replied the reporter. "Bows and arrows were sufficient for
centuries to stain the earth with blood. Powder is but a thing of yesterday, and war is as
old as the human race--unhappily."

"Faith, that's true, Mr. Spilett," replied the sailor, "and I always speak too quickly. You
must excuse me!"

Meanwhile, Herbert constant to his favorite science, Natural History, reverted to the kangaroos,
saying,--

"Besides, we had to deal just now with the species which is most difficult to catch. They were
giants with long gray fur; but if I am not mistaken, there exist black and red kangaroos, rock
kangaroos, and rat kangaroos, which are more easy to get hold of. It is reckoned that there
are about a dozen species."

"Herbert," replied the sailor sententiously, "there is only one species of kangaroos to me,
that is 'kangaroo on the spit,' and it's just the one we haven't got this evening!"

They could not help laughing at Master Pencroft's new classification. The honest sailor did
not hide his regret at being reduced for dinner to the singing pheasants, but fortune once
more showed itself obliging to him.

In fact, Top, who felt that his interest was concerned went and ferreted everywhere with an
instinct doubled by a ferocious appetite. It was even probable that if some piece of game did
fall into his clutches, none would be left for the hunters, if Top was hunting on his own account;
but Neb watched him and he did well.

Towards three o'clock the dog disappeared in the brushwood and gruntings showed that he was
engaged in a struggle with some animal. Neb rushed after him, and soon saw Top eagerly devouring
a quadruped, which ten seconds later would have been past recognizing in Top's stomach. But
fortunately the dog had fallen upon a brood, and besides the victim he was devouring, two other
rodents--the animals in question belonged to that order--lay strangled on the turf.

Neb reappeared triumphantly holding one of the rodents in each hand. Their size exceeded that
of a rabbit, their hair was yellow, mingled with green spots, and they had the merest rudiments
of tails.

The citizens of the Union were at no loss for the right name of these rodents. They were maras,
a sort of agouti, a little larger than their congeners of tropical countries, regular American
rabbits, with long ears, jaws armed on each side with five molars, which distinguish the agouti.

"Hurrah!" cried Pencroft, "the roast has arrived! and now we can go home."

The walk, interrupted for an instant, was resumed. The limpid waters of the Red Creek flowed
under an arch of casuannas, banksias, and gigantic gum-trees. Superb lilacs rose to a height
of twenty feet. Other arborescent species, unknown to the young naturalist, bent over the stream,
which could be heard murmuring beneath the bowers of verdure.

Meanwhile the stream grew much wider, and Cyrus Harding supposed that they would soon reach
its mouth. In fact, on emerging from beneath a thick clump of beautiful trees, it suddenly
appeared before their eyes.

The explorers had arrived on the western shore of Lake Grant. The place was well worth looking
at. This extent of water, of a circumference of nearly seven miles and an area of two hundred
and fifty acres, reposed in a border of diversified trees. Towards the east, through a curtain
of verdure, picturesquely raised in some places, sparkled an horizon of sea. The lake was curved
at the north, which contrasted with the sharp outline of its lower part. Numerous aquatic birds
frequented the shores of this little Ontario, in which the thousand isles of its American namesake
were represented by a rock which emerged from its surface, some hundred feet from the southern
shore. There lived in harmony several couples of kingfishers perched on a stone, grave, motionless,
watching for fish, then darting down, they plunged in with a sharp cry, and reappeared with
their prey in their beaks. On the shores and on the islets, strutted wild ducks, pelicans,
water-hens, red-beaks, philedons, furnished with a tongue like a brush, and one or two specimens
of the splendid menura, the tail of which expands gracefully like a lyre.

As to the water of the lake, it was sweet, limpid, rather dark, and from certain bubblings,
and the concentric circles which crossed each other on the surface, it could not be doubted
that it abounded in fish.

"This lake is really beautiful!" said Gideon Spilett. "We could live on its borders!"

"We will live there!" replied Harding.

The settlers, wishing to return to the Chimneys by the shortest way, descended towards the
angle formed on the south by the junction of the lake's bank. It was not without difficulty
that they broke a path through the thickets and brushwood which had never been put aside by
the hand of men, and they thus went towards the shore, so as to arrive at the north of Prospect
Heights. Two miles were cleared in this direction, and then, after they had passed the last
curtain of trees, appeared the plateau, carpeted with thick turf, and beyond that the infinite sea.

To return to the Chimneys, it was enough to cross the plateau obliquely for the space of a
mile, and then to descend to the elbow formed by the first detour of the Mercy. But the engineer
desired to know how and where the overplus of the water from the lake escaped, and the exploration
was prolonged under the trees for a mile and a half towards the north. It was most probable
that an overfall existed somewhere, and doubtless through a cleft in the granite. This lake
was only, in short, an immense center basin, which was filled by degrees by the creek, and
its waters must necessarily pass to the sea by some fall. If it was so, the engineer thought
that it might perhaps be possible to utilize this fall and borrow its power, actually lost
without profit to any one. They continued then to follow the shores of Lake Grant by climbing
the plateau; but, after having gone a mile in this direction, Cyrus Harding had not been able
to discover the overfall, which, however, must exist somewhere.

It was then half-past four. In order to prepare for dinner it was necessary that the settlers
should return to their dwelling. The little band retraced their steps, therefore, and by the
left bank of the Mercy, Cyrus Harding and his companions arrived at the Chimneys.

The fire was lighted, and Neb and Pencroft, on whom the functions of cooks naturally devolved,
to the one in his quality of Negro, to the other in that of sailor, quickly prepared some broiled
agouti, to which they did great justice.

The repast at length terminated; at the moment when each one was about to give himself up to
sleep, Cyrus Harding drew from his pocket little specimens of different sorts of minerals,
and just said,--

"My friends, this is iron mineral, this a pyrite, this is clay, this is lime, and this is coal.
Nature gives us these things. It is our business to make a right use of them. To-morrow we
will commence operations."

Chapter 13

"Well, captain, where are we going to begin?" asked Pencroft next morning of the engineer.

"At the beginning," replied Cyrus Harding.

And in fact, the settlers were compelled to begin "at the very beginning." They did not possess
even the tools necessary for making tools, and they were not even in the condition of nature,
who, "having time, husbands her strength." They had no time, since they had to provide for
the immediate wants of their existence, and though, profiting by acquired experience, they
had nothing to invent, still they had everything to make; their iron and their steel were as
yet only in the state of minerals, their earthenware in the state of clay, their linen and
their clothes in the state of textile material.

It must be said, however, that the settlers were "men" in the complete and higher sense of
the word. The engineer Harding could not have been seconded by more intelligent companions,
nor with more devotion and zeal. He had tried them. He knew their abilities.

Gideon Spilett, a talented reporter, having learned everything so as to be able to speak of
everything, would contribute largely with his head and hands to the colonization of the island.
He would not draw back from any task: a determined sportsman, he would make a business of what
till then had only been a pleasure to him.

Herbert, a gallant boy, already remarkably well informed in the natural sciences, would render
greater service to the common cause.

Neb was devotion personified. Clever, intelligent, indefatigable, robust, with iron health,
he knew a little about the work of the forge, and could not fail to be very useful in the colony.

As to Pencroft, he had sailed over every sea, a carpenter in the dockyards in Brooklyn, assistant
tailor in the vessels of the state, gardener, cultivator, during his holidays, etc., and like
all seamen, fit for anything, he knew how to do everything.

It would have been difficult to unite five men, better fitted to struggle against fate, more
certain to triumph over it.

"At the beginning," Cyrus Harding had said. Now this beginning of which the engineer spoke
was the construction of an apparatus which would serve to transform the natural substances.
The part which heat plays in these transformations is known. Now fuel, wood or coal, was ready
for immediate use, an oven must be built to use it.

"What is this oven for?" asked Pencroft.

"To make the pottery which we have need of," replied Harding.

"And of what shall we make the oven?"

"With bricks."

"And the bricks?"

"With clay. Let us start, my friends. To save trouble, we will establish our manufactory at
the place of production. Neb will bring provisions, and there will be no lack of fire to cook
the food."

"No," replied the reporter; "but if there is a lack of food for want of instruments for the chase?"

"Ah, if we only had a knife!" cried the sailor.

"Well?" asked Cyrus Harding.

"Well! I would soon make a bow and arrows, and then there could be plenty of game in the larder!"

"Yes, a knife, a sharp blade." said the engineer, as if he was speaking to himself.

At this moment his eyes fell upon Top, who was running about on the shore. Suddenly Harding's
face became animated.

"Top, here," said he.

The dog came at his master's call. The latter took Top's head between his hands, and unfastening
the collar which the animal wore round his neck, he broke it in two, saying,--

"There are two knives, Pencroft!"

Two hurrahs from the sailor was the reply. Top's collar was made of a thin piece of tempered
steel. They had only to sharpen it on a piece of sandstone, then to raise the edge on a finer
stone. Now sandstone was abundant on the beach, and two hours after the stock of tools in the
colony consisted of two sharp blades, which were easily fixed in solid handles.

The production of these their first tools was hailed as a triumph. It was indeed a valuable
result of their labor, and a very opportune one. They set out.

Cyrus Harding proposed that they should return to the western shore of the lake, where the
day before he had noticed the clayey ground of which he possessed a specimen. They therefore
followed the bank of the Mercy, traversed Prospect Heights, and alter a walk of five miles
or more they reached a glade, situated two hundred feet from Lake Grant.

On the way Herbert had discovered a tree, the branches of which the Indians of South America
employ for making their bows. It was the crejimba, of the palm family, which does not bear
edible fruit. Long straight branches were cut, the leaves stripped off; it was shaped, stronger
in the middle, more slender at the extremities, and nothing remained to be done but to find
a plant fit to make the bow-string. This was the "hibiscus heterophyllus," which furnishes
fibers of such remarkable tenacity that they have been compared to the tendons of animals.
Pencroft thus obtained bows of tolerable strength, for which he only wanted arrows. These were
easily made with straight stiff branches, without knots, but the points with which they must
be armed, that is to say, a substance to serve in lieu of iron, could not be met with so easily.
But Pencroft said, that having done his part of the work, chance would do the rest.

The settlers arrived on the ground which had been discovered the day before. Being composed
of the sort of clay which is used for making bricks and tiles, it was very useful for the work
in question. There was no great difficulty in it. It was enough to scour the clay with sand,
then to mold the bricks and bake them by the heat of a wood fire.

Generally bricks are formed in molds, but the engineer contented himself with making them by
hand. All that day and the day following were employed in this work. The clay, soaked in water,
was mixed by the feet and hands of the manipulators, and then divided into pieces of equal
size. A practiced workman can make, without a machine, about ten thousand bricks in twelve
hours; but in their two days work the five brickmakers on Lincoln Island had not made more
than three thousand, which were ranged near each other, until the time when their complete
desiccation would permit them to be used in building the oven, that is to say, in three or
four days.

It was on the 2nd of April that Harding had employed himself in fixing the orientation of the
island, or, in other words, the precise spot where the sun rose. The day before he had noted
exactly the hour when the sun disappeared beneath the horizon, making allowance for the refraction.
This morning he noted, no less exactly, the hour at which it reappeared. Between this setting
and rising twelve hours, twenty-four minutes passed. Then, six hours, twelve minutes after
its rising, the sun on this day would exactly pass the meridian and the point of the sky which
it occupied at this moment would be the north. At the said hour, Cyrus marked this point, and
putting in a line with the sun two trees which would serve him for marks, he thus obtained
an invariable meridian for his ulterior operations.

The settlers employed the two days before the oven was built in collecting fuel. Branches were
cut all round the glade, and they picked up all the fallen wood under the trees. They were
also able to hunt with greater success, since Pencroft now possessed some dozen arrows armed
with sharp points. It was Top who had famished these points, by bringing in a porcupine, rather
inferior eating, but of great value, thanks to the quills with which it bristled. These quills
were fixed firmly at the ends of the arrows, the flight of which was made more certain by some
cockatoos' feathers. The reporter and Herbert soon became very skilful archers. Game of all
sorts in consequence abounded at the Chimneys, capybaras, pigeons, agouties, grouse, etc. The
greater part of these animals were killed in the part of the forest on the left bank of the
Mercy, to which they gave the name of Jacamar Wood, in remembrance of the bird which Pencroft
and Herbert had pursued when on their first exploration.

This game was eaten fresh, but they preserved some capybara hams, by smoking them above a fire
of green wood, after having perfumed them with sweet-smelling leaves. However, this food, although
very strengthening, was always roast upon roast, and the party would have been delighted to
hear some soup bubbling on the hearth, but they must wait till a pot could be made, and, consequently,
till the oven was built.

During these excursions, which were not extended far from the brick-field, the hunters could
discern the recent passage of animals of a large size, armed with powerful claws, but they
could not recognize the species. Cyrus Harding advised them to be very careful, as the forest
probably enclosed many dangerous beasts.

And he did right. Indeed, Gideon Spilett and Herbert one day saw an animal which resembled
a jaguar. Happily the creature did not attack them, or they might not have escaped without
a severe wound. As soon as he could get a regular weapon, that is to say, one of the guns which
Pencroft begged for, Gideon Spilett resolved to make desperate war against the ferocious beasts,
and exterminate them from the island.

The Chimneys during these few days was not made more comfortable, for the engineer hoped to
discover, or build if necessary, a more convenient dwelling. They contented themselves with
spreading moss and dry leaves on the sand of the passages, and on these primitive couches the
tired workers slept soundly.

They also reckoned the days they had passed on Lincoln Island, and from that time kept a regular
account. The 5th of April, which was Wednesday, was twelve days from the time when the wind
threw the castaways on this shore.

On the 6th of April, at daybreak, the engineer and his companions were collected in the glade,
at the place where they were going to perform the operation of baking the bricks. Naturally
this had to be in the open air, and not in a kiln, or rather, the agglomeration of bricks made
an enormous kiln, which would bake itself. The fuel, made of well-prepared fagots, was laid
on the ground and surrounded with several rows of dried bricks, which soon formed an enormous
cube, to the exterior of which they contrived air-holes. The work lasted all day, and it was
not till the evening that they set fire to the fagots. No one slept that night, all watching
carefully to keep up the fire.

The operation lasted forty-eight hours, and succeeded perfectly. It then became necessary to
leave the smoking mass to cool, and during this time Neb and Pencroft, guided by Cyrus Harding,
brought, on a hurdle made of interlaced branches, loads of carbonate of lime and common stones,
which were very abundant, to the north of the lake. These stones, when decomposed by heat,
made a very strong quicklime, greatly increased by slacking, at least as pure as if it had
been produced by the calcination of chalk or marble. Mixed with sand the lime made excellent
mortar.

The result of these different works was, that, on the 9th of April, the engineer had at his
disposal a quantity of prepared lime and some thousands of bricks.

Without losing an instant, therefore, they began the construction of a kiln to bake the pottery,
which was indispensable for their domestic use. They succeeded without much difficulty. Five
days after, the kiln was supplied with coal, which the engineer had discovered lying open to
the sky towards the mouth of the Red Creek, and the first smoke escaped from a chimney twenty
feet high. The glade was transformed into a manufactory, and Pencroft was not far wrong in
believing that from this kiln would issue all the products of modern industry.

In the meantime what the settlers first manufactured was a common pottery in which to cook
their food. The chief material was clay, to which Harding added a little lime and quartz. This
paste made regular "pipe-clay," with which they manufactured bowls, cups molded on stones of
a proper size, great jars and pots to hold water, etc. The shape of these objects was clumsy
and defective, but after they had been baked in a high temperature, the kitchen of the Chimneys
was provided with a number of utensils, as precious to the settlers as the most beautifully
enameled china. We must mention here that Pencroft, desirous to know if the clay thus prepared
was worthy of its name of pipe-clay, made some large pipes, which he thought charming, but
for which, alas! he had no tobacco, and that was a great privation to Pencroft. "But tobacco
will come, like everything else!" he repeated, in a burst of absolute confidence.

This work lasted till the 15th of April, and the time was well employed. The settlers, having
become potters, made nothing but pottery. When it suited Cyrus Harding to change them into
smiths, they would become smiths. But the next day being Sunday, and also Easter Sunday, all
agreed to sanctify the day by rest. These Americans were religious men, scrupulous observers
of the precepts of the Bible, and their situation could not but develop sentiments of confidence
towards the Author of all things.

On the evening of the 15th of April they returned to the Chimneys, carrying with them the pottery,
the furnace being extinguished until they could put it to a new use. Their return was marked
by a fortunate incident; the engineer discovered a substance which replaced tinder. It is known
that a spongy, velvety flesh is procured from a certain mushroom of the genus polyporous. Properly
prepared, it is extremely inflammable, especially when it has been previously saturated with
gunpowder, or boiled in a solution of nitrate or chlorate of potash. But, till then, they had
not found any of these polypores or even any of the morels which could replace them. On this
day, the engineer, seeing a plant belonging to the wormwood genus, the principal species of
which are absinthe, balm-mint, tarragon, etc., gathered several tufts, and, presenting them
to the sailor, said,--

"Here, Pencroft, this will please you."

Pencroft looked attentively at the plant, covered with long silky hair, the leaves being clothed
with soft down.

"What's that, captain?" asked Pencroft. "Is it tobacco?"

"No," replied Harding, "it is wormwood; Chinese wormwood to the learned, but to us it will
be tinder."

When the wormwood was properly dried it provided them with a very inflammable substance, especially
afterwards when the engineer had impregnated it with nitrate of potash, of which the island
possessed several beds, and which is in truth saltpeter.

The colonists had a good supper that evening. Neb prepared some agouti soup, a smoked capybara
ham, to which was added the boiled tubercules of the "caladium macrorhizum," an herbaceous
plant of the arum family. They had an excellent taste, and were very nutritious, being something
similar to the substance which is sold in England under the name of "Portland sago"; they were
also a good substitute for bread, which the settlers in Lincoln Island did not yet possess.

When supper was finished, before sleeping, Harding and his companions went to take the air
on the beach. It was eight o'clock in the evening; the night was magnificent. The moon, which
had been full five days before, had not yet risen, but the horizon was already silvered by
those soft, pale shades which might be called the dawn of the moon. At the southern zenith
glittered the circumpolar constellations, and above all the Southern Cross, which some days
before the engineer had greeted on the summit of Mount Franklin.

Cyrus Harding gazed for some time at this splendid constellation, which has at its summit and
at its base two stars of the first magnitude, at its left arm a star of the second, and at
its right arm a star of the third magnitude.

Then, after some minutes thought--

"Herbert," he asked of the lad, "is not this the 15th of April?"

"Yes, captain," replied Herbert.

"Well, if I am not mistaken, to-morrow will be one of the four days in the year in which the
real time is identical with average time; that is to say, my boy, that to-morrow, to within
some seconds, the sun will pass the meridian just at midday by the clocks. If the weather is
fine I think that I shall obtain the longitude of the island with an approximation of some
degrees."

"Without instruments, without sextant?" asked Gideon Spilett.

"Yes," replied the engineer. "Also, since the night is clear, I will try, this very evening,
to obtain our latitude by calculating the height of the Southern Cross, that is, from the southern
pole above the horizon. You understand, my friends, that before undertaking the work of installation
in earnest it is not enough to have found out that this land is an island; we must, as nearly
as possible, know at what distance it is situated, either from the American continent or Australia,
or from the principal archipelagoes of the Pacific."

"In fact," said the reporter, "instead of building a house it would be more important to build
a boat, if by chance we are not more than a hundred miles from an inhabited coast."

"That is why," returned Harding, "I am going to try this evening to calculate the latitude
of Lincoln Island, and to-morrow, at midday, I will try to calculate the longitude."

If the engineer had possessed a sextant, an apparatus with which the angular distance of objects
can be measured with great precision, there would have been no difficulty in the operation.
This evening by the height of the pole, the next day by the passing of the sun at the meridian,
he would obtain the position of the island. But as they had not one he would have to supply
the deficiency.

Harding then entered the Chimneys. By the light of the fire he cut two little flat rulers,
which he joined together at one end so as to form a pair of compasses, whose legs could separate
or come together. The fastening was fixed with a strong acacia thorn which was found in the
wood pile. This instrument finished, the engineer returned to the beach, but as it was necessary
to take the height of the pole from above a clear horizon, that is, a sea horizon, and as Claw
Cape hid the southern horizon, he was obliged to look for a more suitable station. The best
would evidently have been the shore exposed directly to the south; but the Mercy would have
to be crossed, and that was a difficulty. Harding resolved, in consequence, to make his observation
from Prospect Heights, taking into consideration its height above the level of the sea--a height
which he intended to calculate next day by a simple process of elementary geometry.

The settlers, therefore, went to the plateau, ascending the left bank of the Mercy, and placed
themselves on the edge which looked northwest and southeast, that is, above the curiously-shaped
rocks which bordered the river.

This part of the plateau commanded the heights of the left bank, which sloped away to the extremity
of Claw Cape, and to the southern side of the island. No obstacle intercepted their gaze, which
swept the horizon in a semi-circle from the cape to Reptile End. To the south the horizon,
lighted by the first rays of the moon, was very clearly defined against the sky.

At this moment the Southern Cross presented itself to the observer in an inverted position,
the star Alpha marking its base, which is nearer to the southern pole.

This constellation is not situated as near to the antarctic pole as the Polar Star is to the
arctic pole. The star Alpha is about twenty-seven degrees from it, but Cyrus Harding knew this
and made allowance for it in his calculation. He took care also to observe the moment when
it passed the meridian below the pole, which would simplify the operation.

Cyrus Harding pointed one leg of the compasses to the horizon, the other to Alpha, and the
space between the two legs gave him the angular distance which separated Alpha from the horizon.
In order to fix the angle obtained, he fastened with thorns the two pieces of wood on a third
placed transversely, so that their separation should be properly maintained.

That done, there was only the angle to calculate by bringing back the observation to the level
of the sea, taking into consideration the depression of the horizon, which would necessitate
measuring the height of the cliff. The value of this angle would give the height of Alpha,
and consequently that of the pole above the horizon, that is to say, the latitude of the island,
since the latitude of a point of the globe is always equal to the height of the pole above
the horizon of this point.

The calculations were left for the next day, and at ten o'clock every one was sleeping soundly.

Chapter 14

The next day, the 16th of April, and Easter Sunday, the settlers issued from the Chimneys at
daybreak, and proceeded to wash their linen. The engineer intended to manufacture soap as soon
as he could procure the necessary materials--soda or potash, fat or oil. The important question
of renewing their wardrobe would be treated of in the proper time and place. At any rate their
clothes would last at least six months longer, for they were strong, and could resist the wear
of manual labor. But all would depend on the situation of the island with regard to inhabited
land. This would be settled to-day if the weather permitted.

The sun rising above a clear horizon, announced a magnificent day, one of those beautiful autumn
days which are like the last farewells of the warm season.

It was now necessary to complete the observations of the evening before by measuring the height
of the cliff above the level of the sea.

"Shall you not need an instrument similar to the one which you used yesterday?" said Herbert
to the engineer.

"No, my boy," replied the latter, "we are going to proceed differently, but in as precise a way."

Herbert, wishing to learn everything he could, followed the engineer to the beach. Pencroft,
Neb, and the reporter remained behind and occupied themselves in different ways.

Cyrus Harding had provided himself with a straight stick, twelve feet long, which he had measured
as exactly as possible by comparing it with his own height, which he knew to a hair. Herbert
carried a plumb-line which Harding had given him, that is to say, a simple stone fastened to
the end of a flexible fiber. Having reached a spot about twenty feet from the edge of the beach,
and nearly five hundred feet from the cliff, which rose perpendicularly, Harding thrust the
pole two feet into the sand, and wedging it up carefully, he managed, by means of the plumb-line,
to erect it perpendicularly with the plane of the horizon.

That done, he retired the necessary distance, when, lying on the sand, his eye glanced at the
same time at the top of the pole and the crest of the cliff. He carefully marked the place
with a little stick.

Then addressing Herbert--"Do you know the first principles of geometry?" he asked.

"Slightly, captain," replied Herbert, who did not wish to put himself forward.

"You remember what are the properties of two similar triangles?"

"Yes," replied Herbert; "their homologous sides are proportional."

"Well, my boy, I have just constructed two similar right-angled triangles; the first, the smallest,
has for its sides the perpendicular pole, the distance which separates the little stick from
the foot of the pole and my visual ray for hypothenuse; the second has for its sides the perpendicular
cliff, the height of which we wish to measure, the distance which separates the little stick
from the bottom of the cliff, and my visual ray also forms its hypothenuse, which proves to
be prolongation of that of the first triangle."

"Ah, captain, I understand!" cried Herbert. "As the distance from the stick to the pole is
to the distance from the stick to the base of the cliff, so is the height of the pole to the
height of the cliff."

"Just so, Herbert," replied the engineer; "and when we have measured the two first distances,
knowing the height of the pole, we shall only have a sum in proportion to do, which will give
us the height of the cliff, and will save us the trouble of measuring it directly."

The two horizontal distances were found out by means of the pole, whose length above the sand
was exactly ten feet.

The first distance was fifteen feet between the stick and the place where the pole was thrust
into the sand.

The second distance between the stick and the bottom of the cliff was five hundred feet.

These measurements finished, Cyrus Harding and the lad returned to the Chimneys.

The engineer then took a flat stone which he had brought back from one of his previous excursions,
a sort of slate, on which it was easy to trace figures with a sharp shell. He then proved the
following proportions:--

          15:500::10:x

         500 x 10 = 5000

        5000 / 15 = 333.3

From which it was proved that the granite cliff measured 333 feet in height.

Cyrus Harding then took the instrument which he had made the evening before, the space between
its two legs giving the angular distance between the star Alpha and the horizon. He measured,
very exactly, the opening of this angle on a circumference which he divided into 360 equal
parts. Now, this angle by adding to it the twenty-seven degrees which separated Alpha from
the antarctic pole, and by reducing to the level of the sea the height of the cliff on which
the observation had been made, was found to be fifty-three degrees. These fifty-three degrees
being subtracted from ninety degrees--the distance from the pole to the equator--there remained
thirty-seven degrees. Cyrus Harding concluded, therefore, that Lincoln Island was situated
on the thirty-seventh degree of the southern latitude, or taking into consideration through
the imperfection of the performance, an error of five degrees, that it must be situated between
the thirty-fifth and the fortieth parallel.

There was only the longitude to be obtained, and the position of the island would be determined,
The engineer hoped to attempt this the same day, at twelve o'clock, at which moment the sun
would pass the meridian.

It was decided that Sunday should be spent in a walk, or rather an exploring expedition, to
that side of the island between the north of the lake and Shark Gulf, and if there was time
they would push their discoveries to the northern side of Cape South Mandible. They would breakfast
on the downs, and not return till evening.

At half-past eight the little band was following the edge of the channel. On the other side,
on Safety Islet, numerous birds were gravely strutting. They were divers, easily recognized
by their cry, which much resembles the braying of a donkey. Pencroft only considered them in
an eatable point of view, and learnt with some satisfaction that their flesh, though blackish,
is not bad food.

Great amphibious creatures could also be seen crawling on the sand; seals, doubtless, who appeared
to have chosen the islet for a place of refuge. It was impossible to think of those animals
in an alimentary point of view, for their oily flesh is detestable; however, Cyrus Harding
observed them attentively, and without making known his idea, he announced to his companions
that very soon they would pay a visit to the islet. The beach was strewn with innumerable shells,
some of which would have rejoiced the heart of a conchologist; there were, among others, the
phasianella, the terebratual, etc. But what would be of more use, was the discovery, by Neb,
at low tide, of a large oysterbed among the rocks, nearly five miles from the Chimneys.

"Neb will not have lost his day," cried Pencroft, looking at the spacious oyster-bed.

"It is really a fortunate discovery," said the reporter, "and as it is said that each oyster
produces yearly from fifty to sixty thousand eggs, we shall have an inexhaustible supply there."

"Only I believe that the oyster is not very nourishing," said Herbert.

"No," replied Harding. "The oyster contains very little nitrogen, and if a man lived exclusively
on them, he would have to eat not less than fifteen to sixteen dozen a day."

"Capital!" replied Pencroft. "We might swallow dozens and dozens without exhausting the bed.
Shall we take some for breakfast?"

And without waiting for a reply to this proposal, knowing that it would be approved of, the
sailor and Neb detached a quantity of the molluscs. They put them in a sort of net of hibiscus
fiber, which Neb had manufactured, and which already contained food; they then continued to
climb the coast between the downs and the sea.

From time to time Harding consulted his watch, so as to be prepared in time for the solar observation,
which had to be made exactly at midday.

All that part of the island was very barren as far as the point which closed Union Bay, and
which had received the name of Cape South Mandible. Nothing could be seen there but sand and
shells, mingled with debris of lava. A few sea-birds frequented this desolate coast, gulls,
great albatrosses, as well as wild duck, for which Pencroft had a great fancy. He tried to
knock some over with an arrow, but without result, for they seldom perched, and he could not
hit them on the wing.

This led the sailor to repeat to the engineer,--

"You see, captain, so long as we have not one or two fowling-pieces, we shall never get anything!"

"Doubtless, Pencroft," replied the reporter, "but it depends on you. Procure us some iron for
the barrels, steel for the hammers, saltpeter. coal and sulphur for powder, mercury and nitric
acid for the fulminate, and lead for the shot, and the captain will make us first-rate guns."

"Oh!" replied the engineer, "we might, no doubt, find all these substances on the island, but
a gun is a delicate instrument, and needs very particular tools. However, we shall see later!"

"Why," cried Pencroft, "were we obliged to throw overboard all the weapons we had with us in
the car, all our implements, even our pocket-knives?"

"But if we had not thrown them away, Pencroft, the balloon would have thrown us to the bottom
of the sea!" said Herbert.

"What you say is true, my boy," replied the sailor.

Then passing to another idea,--"Think," said he, "how astounded Jonathan Forster and his companions
must have been when, next morning, they found the place empty, and the machine flown away!"

"I am utterly indifferent about knowing what they may have thought," said the reporter.

"It was all my idea, that!" said Pencroft, with a satisfied air.

"A splendid idea, Pencroft!" replied Gideon Spilett, laughing, "and which has placed us where
we are."

"I would rather be here than in the hands of the Southerners," cried the sailor, "especially
since the captain has been kind enough to come and join us again."

"So would I, truly!" replied the reporter. "Besides, what do we want? Nothing."

"If that is not--everything!" replied Pencroft, laughing and shrugging his shoulders. "But,
some day or other, we shall find means of going away!"

"Sooner, perhaps, than you imagine, my friends," remarked the engineer, "if Lincoln Island
is but a medium distance from an inhabited island, or from a continent. We shall know in an
hour. I have not a map of the Pacific, but my memory has preserved a very clear recollection
of its southern part. The latitude which I obtained yesterday placed New Zealand to the west
of Lincoln Island, and the coast of Chile to the east. But between these two countries, there
is a distance of at least six thousand miles. It has, therefore, to be determined what point
in this great space the island occupies, and this the longitude will give us presently, with
a sufficient approximation, I hope."

"Is not the archipelago of the Pomoutous the nearest point to us in latitude?" asked Herbert.

"Yes," replied the engineer, "but the distance which separates us from it is more than twelve
hundred miles."

"And that way?" asked Neb, who followed the conversation with extreme interest, pointing to
the south.

"That way, nothing," replied Pencroft.

"Nothing, indeed," added the engineer.

"Well, Cyrus," asked the reporter, "if Lincoln Island is not more than two or three thousand
miles from New Zealand or Chile?"

"Well," replied the engineer, "instead of building a house we will build a boat, and Master
Pencroft shall be put in command--"

"Well then," cried the sailor, "I am quite ready to be captain--as soon as you can make a craft
that's able to keep at sea!"

"We shall do it, if it is necessary," replied Cyrus Harding.

But while these men, who really hesitated at nothing, were talking, the hour approached at
which the observation was to be made. What Cyrus Harding was to do to ascertain the passage
of the sun at the meridian of the island, without an instrument of any sort, Herbert could
not guess.

The observers were then about six miles from the Chimneys, not far from that part of the downs
in which the engineer had been found after his enigmatical preservation. They halted at this
place and prepared for breakfast, for it was half-past eleven. Herbert went for some fresh
water from a stream which ran near, and brought it back in a jug, which Neb had provided.

During these preparations Harding arranged everything for his astronomical observation. He
chose a clear place on the shore, which the ebbing tide had left perfectly level. This bed
of fine sand was as smooth as ice, not a grain out of place. It was of little importance whether
it was horizontal or not, and it did not matter much whether the stick six feet high, which
was planted there, rose perpendicularly. On the contrary, the engineer inclined it towards
the south, that is to say, in the direction of the coast opposite to the sun, for it must not
be forgotten that the settlers in Lincoln Island, as the island was situated in the Southern
Hemisphere, saw the radiant planet describe its diurnal arc above the northern, and not above
the southern horizon.

Herbert now understood how the engineer was going to proceed to ascertain the culmination of
the sun, that is to say its passing the meridian of the island or, in other words, determine
due south. It was by means of the shadow cast on the sand by the stick, a way which, for want
of an instrument, would give him a suitable approach to the result which he wished to obtain.

In fact, the moment when this shadow would reach its minimum of length would be exactly twelve
o'clock, and it would be enough to watch the extremity of the shadow, so as to ascertain the
instant when, alter having successively diminished, it began to lengthen. By inclining his
stick to the side opposite to the sun, Cyrus Harding made the shadow longer, and consequently
its modifications would be more easily ascertained. In fact, the longer the needle of a dial
is, the more easily can the movement of its point be followed. The shadow of the stick was
nothing but the needle of a dial. The moment had come, and Cyrus Harding knelt on the sand,
and with little wooden pegs, which he stuck into the sand, he began to mark the successive
diminutions of the stick's shadow. His companions, bending over him, watched the operation
with extreme interest. The reporter held his chronometer in his hand, ready to tell the hour
which it marked when the shadow would be at its shortest. Moreover, as Cyrus Harding was working
on the 16th of April, the day on which the true and the average time are identical, the hour
given by Gideon Spilett would be the true hour then at Washington, which would simplify the
calculation. Meanwhile as the sun slowly advanced, the shadow slowly diminished, and when it
appeared to Cyrus Harding that it was beginning to increase, he asked, "What o'clock is it?"

"One minute past five," replied Gideon Spilett directly. They had now only to calculate the
operation. Nothing could be easier. It could be seen that there existed, in round numbers,
a difference of five hours between the meridian of Washington and that of Lincoln Island, that
is to say, it was midday in Lincoln Island when it was already five o'clock in the evening
in Washington. Now the sun, in its apparent movement round the earth, traverses one degree
in four minutes, or fifteen degrees an hour. Fifteen degrees multiplied by five hours give
seventy-five degrees.

Then, since Washington is 77deg 3' 11" as much as to say seventy-seven degrees counted from
the meridian of Greenwich which the Americans take for their starting-point for longitudes
concurrently with the English--it followed that the island must be situated seventy-seven and
seventy-five degrees west of the meridian of Greenwich, that is to say, on the hundred and
fifty-second degree of west longitude.

Cyrus Harding announced this result to his companions, and taking into consideration errors
of observation, as he had done for the latitude, he believed he could positively affirm that
the position of Lincoln Island was between the thirty-fifth and the thirty-seventh parallel,
and between the hundred and fiftieth and the hundred and fifty-fifth meridian to the west of
the meridian of Greenwich.

The possible fault which he attributed to errors in the observation was, it may be seen, of
five degrees on both sides, which, at sixty miles to a degree, would give an error of three
hundred miles in latitude and longitude for the exact position.

But this error would not influence the determination which it was necessary to take. It was
very evident that Lincoln Island was at such a distance from every country or island that it
would be too hazardous to attempt to reach one in a frail boat.

In fact, this calculation placed it at least twelve hundred miles from Tahiti and the islands
of the archipelago of the Pomoutous, more than eighteen hundred miles from New Zealand, and
more than four thousand five hundred miles from the American coast!

And when Cyrus Harding consulted his memory, he could not remember in any way that such an
island occupied, in that part of the Pacific, the situation assigned to Lincoln Island.

Chapter 15

The next day, the 17th of April, the sailor's first words were addressed to Gideon Spilett.

"Well, sir," he asked, "what shall we do to-day?"

"What the captain pleases," replied the reporter.

Till then the engineer's companions had been brickmakers and potters, now they were to become
metallurgists.

The day before, after breakfast, they had explored as far as the point of Mandible Cape, seven
miles distant from the Chimneys. There, the long series of downs ended, and the soil had a
volcanic appearance. There were no longer high cliffs as at Prospect Heights, but a strange
and capricious border which surrounded the narrow gulf between the two capes, formed of mineral
matter, thrown up by the volcano. Arrived at this point the settlers retraced their steps,
and at nightfall entered the Chimneys; but they did not sleep before the question of knowing
whether they could think of leaving Lincoln Island or not was definitely settled.

The twelve hundred miles which separated the island from the Pomoutous Island was a considerable
distance. A boat could not cross it, especially at the approach of the bad season. Pencroft
had expressly declared this. Now, to construct a simple boat even with the necessary tools,
was a difficult work, and the colonists not having tools they must begin by making hammers,
axes, adzes, saws, augers, planes, etc., which would take some time. It was decided, therefore,
that they would winter at Lincoln Island, and that they would look for a more comfortable dwelling
than the Chimneys, in which to pass the winter months.

Before anything else could be done it was necessary to make the iron ore, of which the engineer
had observed some traces in the northwest part of the island, fit for use by converting it
either into iron or into steel.

Metals are not generally found in the ground in a pure state. For the most part they are combined
with oxygen or sulphur. Such was the case with the two specimens which Cyrus Harding had brought
back, one of magnetic iron, not carbonated, the other a pyrite, also called sulphuret of iron.
It was, therefore the first, the oxide of iron, which they must reduce with coal, that is to
say, get rid of the oxygen, to obtain it in a pure state. This reduction is made by subjecting
the ore with coal to a high temperature, either by the rapid and easy Catalan method, which
has the advantage of transforming the ore into iron in a single operation, or by the blast
furnace, which first smelts the ore, then changes it into iron, by carrying away the three
to four per cent. of coal, which is combined with it.

Now Cyrus Harding wanted iron, and he wished to obtain it as soon as possible. The ore which
he had picked up was in itself very pure and rich. It was the oxydulous iron, which is found
in confused masses of a deep gray color; it gives a black dust, crystallized in the form of
the regular octahedron. Native lodestones consist of this ore, and iron of the first quality
is made in Europe from that with which Sweden and Norway are so abundantly supplied. Not far
from this vein was the vein of coal already made use of by the settlers. The ingredients for
the manufacture being close together would greatly facilitate the treatment of the ore. This
is the cause of the wealth of the mines in Great Britain, where the coal aids the manufacture
of the metal extracted from the same soil at the same time as itself.

"Then, captain," said Pencroft, "we are going to work iron ore?"

"Yes, my friend," replied the engineer, "and for that--something which will please you--we
must begin by having a seal hunt on the islet."

"A seal hunt!" cried the sailor, turning towards Gideon Spilett. "Are seals needed to make iron?"

"Since Cyrus has said so!" replied the reporter.

But the engineer had already left the Chimneys, and Pencroft prepared for the seal hunt, without
having received any other explanation.

Cyrus Harding, Herbert, Gideon Spilett, Neb, and the sailor were soon collected on the shore,
at a place where the channel left a ford passable at low tide. The hunters could therefore
traverse it without getting wet higher than the knee.

Harding then put his foot on the islet for the first, and his companions for the second time.

On their landing some hundreds of penguins looked fearlessly at them. The hunters, armed with
sticks, could have killed them easily, but they were not guilty of such useless massacre, as
it was important not to frighten the seals, who were lying on the sand several cable lengths
off. They also respected certain innocent-looking birds, whose wings were reduced to the state
of stumps, spread out like fins, ornamented with feathers of a scaly appearance. The settlers,
therefore, prudently advanced towards the north point, walking over ground riddled with little
holes, which formed nests for the sea-birds. Towards the extremity of the islet appeared great
black heads floating just above the water, having exactly the appearance of rocks in motion.

These were the seals which were to be captured. It was necessary, however, first to allow them
to land, for with their close, short hair, and their fusiform conformation, being excellent
swimmers, it is difficult to catch them in the sea, while on land their short, webbed feet
prevent their having more than a slow, waddling movement.

Pencroft knew the habits of these creatures, and he advised waiting till they were stretched
on the sand, when the sun, before long, would send them to sleep. They must then manage to
cut off their retreat and knock them on the head.

The hunters, having concealed themselves behind the rocks, waited silently.

An hour passed before the seals came to play on the sand. They could count half a dozen. Pencroft
and Herbert then went round the point of the islet, so as to take them in the rear, and cut
off their retreat. During this time Cyrus Harding, Spilett, and Neb, crawling behind the rocks,
glided towards the future scene of combat.

All at once the tall figure of the sailor appeared. Pencroft shouted. The engineer and his
two companions threw themselves between the sea and the seals. Two of the animals soon lay
dead on the sand, but the rest regained the sea in safety.

"Here are the seals required, captain!" said the sailor, advancing towards the engineer.

"Capital," replied Harding. "We will make bellows of them!"

"Bellows!" cried Pencroft. "Well! these are lucky seals!"

It was, in fact, a blowing-machine, necessary for the treatment of the ore that the engineer
wished to manufacture with the skins of the amphibious creatures. They were of a medium size,
for their length did not exceed six feet. They resembled a dog about the head.

As it was useless to burden themselves with the weight of both the animals, Neb and Pencroft
resolved to skin them on the spot, while Cyrus Harding and the reporter continued to explore
the islet.

The sailor and the Negro cleverly performed the operation, and three hours afterwards Cyrus
Harding had at his disposal two seals' skins, which he intended to use in this state, without
subjecting them to any tanning process.

The settlers waited till the tide was again low, and crossing the channel they entered the
Chimneys.

The skins had then to be stretched on a frame of wood and sewn by means of fibers so as to
preserve the air without allowing too much to escape. Cyrus Harding had nothing but the two
steel blades from Top's collar, and yet he was so clever, and his companions aided him with
so much intelligence, that three days afterwards the little colony's stock of tools was augmented
by a blowing-machine, destined to inject the air into the midst of the ore when it should be
subjected to heat--an indispensable condition to the success of the operation.

On the morning of the 20th of April began the "metallic period," as the reporter called it
in his notes. The engineer had decided, as has been said, to operate near the veins both of
coal and ore. Now, according to his observations, these veins were situated at the foot of
the northeast spurs of Mount Franklin, that is to say, a distance of six miles from their home.
It was impossible, therefore, to return every day to the Chimneys, and it was agreed that the
little colony should camp under a hut of branches, so that the important operation could be
followed night and day.

This settled, they set out in the morning. Neb and Pencroft dragged the bellows on a hurdle;
also a quantity of vegetables and animals, which they besides could renew on the way.

The road led through Jacamar Wood, which they traversed obliquely from southeast to northwest,
and in the thickest part. It was necessary to beat a path, which would in the future form the
most direct road to Prospect Heights and Mount Franklin. The trees, belonging to the species
already discovered, were magnificent. Herbert found some new ones, among others some which
Pencroft called "sham leeks"; for, in spite of their size, they were of the same liliaceous
family as the onion, chive, shallot, or asparagus. These trees produce ligneous roots which,
when cooked, are excellent; from them, by fermentation, a very agreeable liquor is made. They
therefore made a good store of the roots.

The journey through the wood was long; it lasted the whole day, and so allowed plenty of time
for examining the flora and fauna. Top, who took special charge of the fauna, ran through the
grass and brushwood, putting up all sorts of game. Herbert and Gideon Spilett killed two kangaroos
with bows and arrows, and also an animal which strongly resembled both a hedgehog and an ant-eater.
It was like the first because it rolled itself into a ball, and bristled with spines, and the
second because it had sharp claws, a long slender snout which terminated in a bird's beak,
and an extendible tongue, covered with little thorns which served to hold the insects. 

Thereupon the pride of the suffering mastersinger reasserted itself;
for while his wife painfully assisted him to mount the stairs, he
harshly denied her right to sit in judgment upon his vocal gifts,
and sternly ordered her to be silent.

But even now this wonderful night-adventure was by no means over.

The entire swarm moved once more in the direction of the inn.

Before the house, however, we found a number of fellows congregated, among them several workmen,
against whom, owing to police regulations as to closing hours, the doors were shut. But the
regular guests of the house, who were of our party, and who were on terms of old friendship
with the host, thought that it was nevertheless permissible and possible to demand entrance.
The host was troubled at having to bar his door against friends, whose voices he recognised;
yet it was necessary to prevent the new arrivals from forcing a way in with them. Out of this
situation a mighty confusion arose, which, what with shouting and clamour and an inexplicable
growth in the number of the disputants, soon assumed a truly demoniacal character. It seemed
to me as though in a few moments the whole town would break into a tumult, and I thought I
should once more have to witness a revolution, the real origin of
which no man could comprehend.

Then suddenly I heard some one fall, and, as though by magic, the whole mass scattered in every
direction. One of the regular guests, who was familiar with an ancient Nuremberg boxing trick,
desiring to put an end to the interminable riot and to cut his way home through the crowd, gave
one of the noisiest shouters a blow with his fist between the eyes,
laying him senseless on the ground, though without seriously injuring
him.

And this it was that so speedily broke up the whole throng. Within little more than a minute of
the most violent uproar of hundreds of human voices, my brother-in-law and I were able to
stroll arm-in-arm through the moonlit streets, quietly jesting and laughing, on our way home;
and then it was that, to my amazement and relief, he informed me that he was accustomed to this sort
of life every evening.

At last, however, it became necessary seriously to attend to the purpose of my journey. Only
in passing did I touch at Wurzburg for a day. I remember nothing of the meeting with my relations
and acquaintance beyond the melancholy visit to Friederike Galvani already mentioned. On reaching
Frankfort I was obliged to seek at once the shelter of a decent hotel, in order to await there
the result of my solicitations for subsidies from the directorate of the Magdeburg theatre.
My hopes of securing the real stars of our operatic undertaking were formed with a view to
a season at Wiesbaden, where, I was told, a good operatic company was on the point of dissolution.
I found it extremely difficult to arrange the short journey thither; yet I managed to be present
at a rehearsal of Robert der Teufel, in which the tenor Freimuller distinguished himself. I interviewed
him at once, and found him willing to entertain my proposals for Magdeburg. We concluded the
necessary agreement, and I then returned with all speed to my headquarters, the Weidenbusch Hotel
in Frankfort. There I had to spend another anxious week, during which I waited in vain for the
necessary travelling expenses to arrive from Magdeburg.

To kill time I had recourse, among other things, to a large red pocket-book which I carried about
with me in my portmanteau, and in which I entered, with exact details of dates, etc., notes
for my future biography-- the selfsame book which now lies before me to freshen my memory, and
which I have ever since added to at various periods of my life, without leaving any gaps.
Through the neglect of the Magdeburg managers my situation, which was already serious, became
literally desperate, when I made an acquisition in Frankfort which gave me almost more pleasure
than I was able to bear.

I had been present at a production of the Zauberflote under the direction of Guhr, then wonderfully
renowned as'a conductor of genius,'and was agreeably surprised at the truly excellent quality of
the company. It was, of course, useless to think of luring one of the leading stars into my net;
on the other hand, I saw clearly enough that the youthful Fraulein Limbach, who sang the'first
boy's'part, possessed a desirable talent.

She accepted my offer of an engagement, and, indeed, seemed so anxious to be rid of her Frankfort
engagement that she resolved to escape from it surreptitiously. She revealed her plans to me,
and begged me to assist her in carrying them out; for, inasmuch as the directors might get
wind of the affair, there was no time to lose. At all events, the young lady assumed that I had
abundant credit, supplied for my official business journey by the
Magdeburg theatre committee, whose praises I had so diligently sung.

But already I had been compelled to pledge my scanty travelling gear in order to provide for my
own departure. To this point I had persuaded the host, but now found him by no means inclined
to advance me the additional funds needed for carrying off a young singer. To cloak the bad
behaviour of my directors I was compelled to invent some tale of misfortune, and to leave the
astonished and indignant young lady behind. Heartily ashamed of this adventure, I travelled
through rain and storm via Leipzig, where I picked up my brown poodle, and reaching Magdeburg,
there resumed my work as musical director on the 1st of September.

The result of my business labours gave me but little joy.

The director, it is true, proved triumphantly that he had sent five whole golden louis to my
address in Frankfort, and that my tenor and the youthful lady-singer had also been provided
with proper contracts, but not with the fares and advances demanded.

Neither of them came; only the basso Graf arrived with pedantic punctuality from Karlsbad, and
immediately provoked the chaff of our theatrical wags. He sang at a rehearsal of the Schweizerfamilie
with such a schoolmasterly drone that I completely lost my composure.

The arrival of my excellent brother-in-law Wolfram with my sister Clara was of more advantage
for musical comedy than for grand opera, and caused me considerable trouble into the bargain;
for, being honest folk and used to decent living, they speedily perceived that, in spite of royal
protection, the condition of the theatre was but very insecure, as
was natural under so unscrupulous a management as that of Bethmann,
and recognised with alarm that they had seriously compromised their
family position.

My courage had already begun to sink when a happy chance brought
us a young woman, Mme.

Pollert (nee Zeibig), who was passing through Magdeburg with her husband, an actor, in order
to fulfil a special engagement in that town; she was gifted with a beautiful voice, was a talented
singer, and well suited for the chief roles. Necessity had at last driven the directors to action,
and at the eleventh hour they sent for the tenor Freimuller. But I was particularly gratified when
the love which had arisen between him and young Limbach in Frankfort enabled the enterprising
tenor to carry away this singer, to whom I had behaved so miserably. Both arrived radiant with
joy. Along with them we engaged Mme. Pollert, who, in spite of her pretentiousness, met with
favour from the public. A well-trained and musically competent baritone, Herr Krug, afterwards
the conductor of a choir in Karlsruhe, had also been discovered,
so that all at once I stood at the head of a really good operatic
company, among which the basso Graf could be fitted in only with great
difficulty, by being kept as much as possible in the background.

We succeeded quickly with a series of operatic performances which were by no means ordinary, and
our repertory included everything of this nature that had ever been written for the theatre.
I was particularly pleased with the presentation of Spohr's Jessonda, which was truly not without sublimity,
and raised us high in the esteem of all cultured lovers of music.

I was untiring in my endeavours to discover some means of elevating our performances above
the usual level of excellence compatible with the meagre resources of provincial theatres. I
persistently fell foul of the director Bethmann by strengthening
my orchestra, which he had to pay; but, on the other hand, I won his
complete goodwill by strengthening the chorus and the theatre music,
which cost him nothing, and which lent such splendour to our presentations
that subscriptions and audiences increased enormously.

For instance, I secured the regimental band, and also the military singers, who in the Prussian
army are admirably organised, and who assisted in our performances
in return for free passes to the gallery granted to their relatives.

Thus I managed to furnish with the utmost completeness the specially
strong orchestral accompaniment demanded by the score of Bellini's
Norma, and was able to dispose of a body of male voices for the impressive
unison portion of the male chorus in the introduction of that work
such as even the greatest theatres could rarely command.

In later years I was able to assure Auber, whom I often met over an ice in Tortoni's cafe
in Paris, that in his Lestocq I had been able to render the part of the mutinous soldiery,
when seduced into conspiracy, with an absolutely full number of voices, a fact for which he
thanked me with astonishment and delight.

Amid such circumstances of encouragement the composition of my Liebesverbot
made rapid strides towards completion.

I intended the presentation of this piece for the benefit performance which had been promised
me as a means of defraying my expenses, and I worked hard in the
hope of improving my reputation, and at the same time of accomplishing
something by no means less desirable, and that was the betterment
of my financial position.

Even the few hours which I could snatch from business to spend at Minna's side were devoted
with unexampled zeal to the completion of my score. My diligence moved even Minna's mother,
who looked with some uneasiness upon our love affair.

She had remained over the summer on a visit to her daughter, and
managed the house for her.

Owing to her interference a new and urgent anxiety had entered into our relations, which pressed
for serious settlement.

It was natural that we should begin to think of what it was all going to lead to. I must confess
that the idea of marriage, especially in view of my youth, filled me with dismay, and without indeed
reflecting on the matter, or seriously weighing its pros and cons, a naive and instinctive
feeling prevented me even from considering the possibility of a step which would have such serious
consequences upon my whole life. Moreover, our modest circumstances were in so alarming and uncertain
a state that even Minna declared that she was more anxious to see
these improved than to get me to marry her.

But she was also driven to think of herself, and that promptly, for trouble arose with regard
to her own position in the Magdeburg theatre. There she had met with a rival in her own speciality,
and as this woman's husband became chief stage manager, and consequently
had supreme power, she grew to be a source of great danger.

Seeing, therefore, that at this very moment Minna received advantageous offers from the managers
of the Konigstadt theatre in Berlin, then doing a splendid business, she seized the opportunity
to break off her connection with the Magdeburg theatre, and thus
plunged me, whom she did not appear to consider in the matter, into
the depths of despair.

I could not hinder Minna from going to Berlin to fulfil a special engagement there, although
this was not in accordance with her agreement, and so she departed,
leaving me behind, overcome with grief and doubt as to the meaning
of her conduct.

At last, mad with passion, I wrote to her urging her to return, and the better to move her
and not to separate her fate from my own, I proposed to her in a strictly formal manner, and
hinted at the hope of early marriage.

About the same time my brother-in-law, Wolfram, having quarrelled
with the director Bethmann and cancelled his contract with him, also
went to the Konigstadt theatre to fulfil a special engagement.

My good sister Clara, who had remained behind for a while amid the
somewhat unpleasant conditions of Magdeburg, soon perceived the anxious
and troubled temper in which her otherwise cheerful brother was rapidly
consuming himself.

One day she thought it advisable to show me a letter from her husband, with news from Berlin,
and especially concerning Minna, in which he earnestly deplored my passion for this girl, who
was acting quite unworthily of me.

As she lodged at his hotel, he was able to observe that not only the company she kept, but also
her own conduct, were perfectly scandalous. The extraordinary impression which this dreadful communication
made upon me decided me to abandon the reserve I had hitherto shown towards my relatives with regard
to my love affairs. I wrote to my brother-in-law in Berlin, telling him how matters stood with me,
and that my plans greatly depended on Minna, and further, how extremely
important it was for me to learn from him the indubitable truth concerning
her of whom he had sent so evil an account.

From my brother-in-law, usually so dry and given to joking, I received a reply which filled
my heart to overflowing again. He confessed that he had accused Minna too hastily, and regretted
that he had allowed idle chatter to influence him in founding a charge, which, on investigation,
had proved to be altogether groundless and unjust; he declared, moreover,
that on nearer acquaintance and conversation with her he had been
so fully convinced of the genuineness and uprightness of her character,
that he hoped with all his heart that I might see my way to marry
her.

And now a storm raged in my heart. I implored Minna to return at once, and was glad to learn
that, for her part, she was not inclined to renew her engagement at the Berlin theatre, as she
had now acquired a more intimate knowledge of the life there, and found it too frivolous. All
that remained, then, was for me to facilitate the resumption of her
Magdeburg engagement.

To this end, therefore, at a meeting of the theatre committee, I attacked the director and his
detested stage manager with such energy, and defended Minna against the wrong done her by
them both with such passion and fervour, that the other members, astonished at the frank confession
of my affection, yielded to my wishes without any further ado. And now I set off by extra post
in the depth of night and in dreadful winter weather to meet my returning sweetheart. I greeted her
with tears of deepest joy, and led her back in triumph to her cosy Magdeburg home, already become
so dear to me.

Meanwhile, as our two lives, thus severed for a while, were being drawn more and more closely
together, I finished the score of my Liebesverbot about New Year
1836.

For the development of my future plans I depended not a little upon the success of this work;
and Minna herself seemed not disinclined to yield to my hopes in this respect. We had reason
to be concerned as to how matters would pan out for us at the beginning of the spring, for this
season is always a bad one in which to start such precarious theatrical
enterprises.

In spite of royal support and the participation of the theatre committee in the general management
of the theatre, our worthy director's state of perennial bankruptcy suffered no alteration,
and it seemed as if his theatrical undertaking could not possibly last much longer in any form. Nevertheless,
with the help of the really first-rate company of singers at my disposal,
the production of my opera was to mark a complete change in my unsatisfactory
circumstances.

With the view of recovering the travelling expenses I had incurred during the previous summer,
I was entitled to a benefit performance. I naturally fixed this for the presentation of my own
work, and did my utmost so that this favour granted me by the directors should prove as inexpensive
to them as possible. As they would nevertheless be compelled to incur some expense in the
production of the new opera, I agreed that the proceeds of the first
presentation should be left to them, while I should claim only those
of the second.

I did not consider it altogether unsatisfactory that the time for the rehearsals was postponed
until the very end of the season, for it was reasonable to suppose that our company, which was often
greeted with unusual applause, would receive special attention and favour from the public during
its concluding performances. Unfortunately, however, contrary to our expectations, we never
reached the proper close of this season, which had been fixed for the end of April; for already
in March, owing to irregularity in the payment of salaries, the most popular members of the company,
having found better employment elsewhere, tendered their resignations to the management, and the
director, who was unable to raise the necessary cash, was compelled to bow to the inevitable.
Now, indeed, my spirits sank, for it seemed more than doubtful whether my Liebesverbot would
ever be produced at all. I owed it entirely to the warm affection felt for me personally by all members
of the opera company, that the singers consented not only to remain
until the end of March, but also to undertake the toil of studying
and rehearsing my opera, a task which, considering the very limited
time, promised to be extremely arduous.

In the event of our having to give two representations, the time at our disposal was so very
short that, for all the rehearsals, we had but ten days before us. And since we were concerned not
with a light comedy or farce, but with a grand opera, and one which, in spite of the trifling
character of its music, contained numerous and powerful concerted passages, the undertaking might
have been regarded almost as foolhardy.

Nevertheless, I built my hopes upon the extraordinary exertions which the singers so willingly
made in order to please me; for they studied continuously, morning, noon, and night. But seeing
that, in spite of all this, it was quite impossible to attain to
perfection, especially in the matter of words, in the case of every
one of these harassed performers, I reckoned further on my own acquired
skill as conductor to achieve the final miracle of success.

The peculiar ability I possessed of helping the singers and of making them, in spite of much
uncertainty, seem to flow smoothly onwards, was clearly demonstrated in our orchestral rehearsals,
in which, by dint of constant prompting, loud singing with the performers and vigorous directions
as to necessary action, I got the whole thing to run so easily that
it seemed quite possible that the performance might be a reasonable
success after all.

Unfortunately, we did not consider that in front of the public all these drastic methods of moving the dramatic
and musical machinery would be restricted to the movements of my baton and to my facial expression.
As a matter of fact the singers, and especially the men, were so extraordinarily uncertain
that from beginning to end their embarrassment crippled the effectiveness of every one of their
parts. Freimuller, the tenor, whose memory was most defective, sought to patch up the lively
and emotional character of his badly learned rule of the madcap Luzio by means of routine work
learned in Fra Diavolo and Zampa, and especially by the aid of an enormously thick, brightly coloured
and fluttering plume of feathers. Consequently, as the directors failed to have the book of words
printed in time, it was impossible to blame the public for being in doubt as to the main outlines
of the story, seeing that they had only the sung words to guide them.

With the exception of a few portions played by the lady singers, which were favourably received,
the whole performance, which I had made to depend largely upon bold, energetic action and speech,
remained but a musical shadow-play, to which the orchestra contributed its own inexplicable effusions,
sometimes with exaggerated noise.

As characteristic of the treatment of my tone-colour, I may mention that the band-master of a
Prussian military band, who, by the bye, had been well pleased with the performance, felt it
incumbent upon him to give me some well-meant hints for my future guidance, as to the manipulation
of the Turkish drum.

Before I relate the further history of this wonderful work of my youth, I will pause a moment
briefly to describe its character, and especially its poetical elements.

Shakespeare's play, which I kept throughout in mind as the foundation of my story, was worked
out in the following manner:-- An unnamed king of Sicily leaves his
country, as I suggest, for a journey to Naples, and hands over to
the Regent appointed-- whom I simply call Friedrich, with the view
of making him appear as German as possible-- full authority to exercise
all the royal power in order to effect a complete reform in the social
habits of his capital, which had provoked the indignation of the
Council.

At the opening of the play we see the servants of the public authority
busily employed either in shutting up or in pulling down the houses
of popular amusement in a suburb of Palermo, and in carrying off the
inmates, including hosts and servants, as prisoners. What was not less inexplicable was
that the struggle still appeared to be going on. Doubtless, the dugong, attacked by some powerful
animal, after having released the dog, was fighting on its own account. But it did not last
long. The water became red with blood, and the body of the dugong, emerging from the sheet
of scarlet which spread around, soon stranded on a little beach at the south angle of the lake.
The colonists ran towards it. The dugong was dead. It was an enormous animal, fifteen or sixteen
feet long, and must have weighed from three to four thousand pounds. At its neck was a wound,
which appeared to have been produced by a sharp blade.

What could the amphibious creature have been, who, by this terrible blow had destroyed the
formidable dugong? No one could tell, and much interested in this incident, Harding and his
companions returned to the Chimneys.

Chapter 17

The next day, the 7th of May, Harding and Gideon Spilett, leaving Neb to prepare breakfast,
climbed Prospect Heights, while Herbert and Pencroft ascended by the river, to renew their
store of wood.

The engineer and the reporter soon reached the little beach on which the dugong had been stranded.
Already flocks of birds had attacked the mass of flesh, and had to be driven away with stones,
for Cyrus wished to keep the fat for the use of the colony. As to the animal's flesh it would
furnish excellent food, for in the islands of the Malay Archipelago and elsewhere, it is especially
reserved for the table of the native princes. But that was Neb's affair.

At this moment Cyrus Harding had other thoughts. He was much interested in the incident of
the day before. He wished to penetrate the mystery of that submarine combat, and to ascertain
what monster could have given the dugong so strange a wound. He remained at the edge of the
lake, looking, observing; but nothing appeared under the tranquil waters, which sparkled in
the first rays of the rising sun.

At the beach, on which lay the body of the dugong, the water was tolerably shallow, but from
this point the bottom of the lake sloped gradually, and it was probable that the depth was
considerable in the center. The lake might be considered as a large center basin, which was
filled by the water from the Red Creek.

"Well, Cyrus," said the reporter, "there seems to be nothing suspicious in this water."

"No, my dear Spilett," replied the engineer, "and I really do not know how to account for the
incident of yesterday."

"I acknowledge," returned Spilett, "that the wound given this creature is, at least, very strange,
and I cannot explain either how Top was so vigorously cast up out of the water. One could have
thought that a powerful arm hurled him up, and that the same arm with a dagger killed the dugong!"

"Yes," replied the engineer, who had become thoughtful; "there is something there that I cannot
understand. But do you better understand either, my dear Spilett, in what way I was saved myself--how
I was drawn from the waves, and carried to the downs? No! Is it not true? Now, I feel sure
that there is some mystery there, which, doubtless, we shall discover some day. Let us observe,
but do not dwell on these singular incidents before our companions. Let us keep our remarks
to ourselves, and continue our work."

It will be remembered that the engineer had not as yet been able to discover the place where
the surplus water escaped, but he knew it must exist somewhere. He was much surprised to see
a strong current at this place. By throwing in some bits of wood he found that it set towards
the southern angle. He followed the current, and arrived at the south point of the lake.

There was there a sort of depression in the water, as if it was suddenly lost in some fissure
in the ground.

Harding listened; placing his ear to the level of the lake, he very distinctly heard the noise
of a subterranean fall.

"There," said he, rising, "is the discharge of the water; there, doubtless, by a passage in
the granite cliff, it joins the sea, through cavities which we can use to our profit. Well,
I can find it!"

The engineer cut a long branch, stripped it of its leaves, and plunging it into the angle between
the two banks, he found that there was a large hole one foot only beneath the surface of the
water. This hole was the opening so long looked for in vain, and the force of the current was
such that the branch was torn from the engineer's hands and disappeared.

"There is no doubt about it now," repeated Harding. "There is the outlet, and I will lay it
open to view!"

"How?" asked Gideon Spilett.

"By lowering the level of the water of the lake three feet." "And how will you lower the level?"

"By opening another outlet larger than this."

"At what place, Cyrus?"

"At the part of the bank nearest the coast."

"But it is a mass of granite!" observed Spilett.

"Well," replied Cyrus Harding, "I will blow up the granite, and the water escaping, will subside,
so as to lay bare this opening--"

"And make a waterfall, by falling on to the beach," added the reporter.

"A fall that we shall make use of!" replied Cyrus. "Come, come!"

The engineer hurried away his companion, whose confidence in Harding was such that he did not
doubt the enterprise would succeed. And yet, how was this granite wall to be opened without
powder, and with imperfect instruments? Was not this work upon which the engineer was so bent
above their strength?

When Harding and the reporter entered the Chimneys, they found Herbert and Pencroft unloading
their raft of wood.

"The woodmen have just finished, captain." said the sailor, laughing, "and when you want masons--"

"Masons,--no, but chemists," replied the engineer.

"Yes," added the reporter, "we are going to blow up the island--"

"Blow up the island?" cried Pencroft.

"Part of it, at least," replied Spilett.

"Listen to me, my friends," said the engineer. And he made known to them the result of his
observations.

According to him, a cavity, more or less considerable, must exist in the mass of granite which
supported Prospect Heights, and he intended to penetrate into it. To do this, the opening through
which the water rushed must first be cleared, and the level lowered by making a larger outlet.
Therefore an explosive substance must be manufactured, which would make a deep trench in some
other part of the shore. This was what Harding was going to attempt with the minerals which
nature placed at his disposal.

It is useless to say with what enthusiasm all, especially Pencroft, received this project.
To employ great means, open the granite, create a cascade, that suited the sailor. And he would
just as soon be a chemist as a mason or bootmaker, since the engineer wanted chemicals. He
would be all that they liked, "even a professor of dancing and deportment," said he to Neb,
if that was ever necessary.

Neb and Pencroft were first of all told to extract the grease from the dugong, and to keep
the flesh, which was destined for food. Such perfect confidence had they in the engineer, that
they set out directly, without even asking a question. A few minutes after them, Cyrus Harding,
Herbert, and Gideon Spilett, dragging the hurdle, went towards the vein of coals, where those
shistose pyrites abound which are met with in the most recent transition soil, and of which
Harding had already found a specimen. All the day being employed in carrying a quantity of
these stones to the Chimneys, by evening they had several tons.

The next day, the 8th of May, the engineer began his manipulations. These shistose pyrites
being composed principally of coal, flint, alumina, and sulphuret of iron--the latter in excess--it
was necessary to separate the sulphuret of iron, and transform it into sulphate as rapidly
as possible. The sulphate obtained, the sulphuric acid could then be extracted.

This was the object to be attained. Sulphuric acid is one of the agents the most frequently
employed, and the manufacturing importance of a nation can be measured by the consumption which
is made of it. This acid would later be of great use to the settlers, in the manufacturing
of candles, tanning skins, etc., but this time the engineer reserved it for another use.

Cyrus Harding chose, behind the Chimneys, a site where the ground was perfectly level. On this
ground he placed a layer of branches and chopped wood, on which were piled some pieces of shistose
pyrites, buttressed one against the other, the whole being covered with a thin layer of pyrites,
previously reduced to the size of a nut.

This done, they set fire to the wood, the heat was communicated to the shist, which soon kindled,
since it contains coal and sulphur. Then new layers of bruised pyrites were arranged so as
to form an immense heap, the exterior of which was covered with earth and grass, several air-holes
being left, as if it was a stack of wood which was to be carbonized to make charcoal.

They then left the transformation to complete itself, and it would not take less than ten or
twelve days for the sulphuret of iron to be changed to sulphate of iron and the alumina into
sulphate of alumina, two equally soluble substances, the others, flint, burnt coal, and cinders,
not being so.

While this chemical work was going on, Cyrus Harding proceeded with other operations, which
were pursued with more than zeal,--it was eagerness.

Neb and Pencroft had taken away the fat from the dugong, and placed it in large earthen pots.
It was then necessary to separate the glycerine from the fat by saponifying it. Now, to obtain
this result, it had to be treated either with soda or lime. In fact, one or other of these
substances, after having attacked the fat, would form a soap by separating the glycerine, and
it was just this glycerine which the engineer wished to obtain. There was no want of lime,
only treatment by lime would give calcareous soap, insoluble, and consequently useless, while
treatment by soda would furnish, on the contrary, a soluble soap, which could be put to domestic
use. Now, a practical man, like Cyrus Harding, would rather try to obtain soda. Was this difficult?
No; for marine plants abounded on the shore, glass-wort, ficoides, and all those fucaceae which
form wrack. A large quantity of these plants was collected, first dried, then burnt in holes
in the open air. The combustion of these plants was kept up for several days, and the result
was a compact gray mass, which has been long known under the name of "natural soda."

This obtained, the engineer treated the fat with soda, which gave both a soluble soap and that
neutral substance, glycerine.

But this was not all. Cyrus Harding still needed, in view of his future preparation, another
substance, nitrate of potash, which is better known under the name of salt niter, or of saltpeter.

Cyrus Harding could have manufactured this substance by treating the carbonate of potash, which
would be easily extracted from the cinders of the vegetables, by azotic acid. But this acid
was wanting, and he would have been in some difficulty, if nature had not happily furnished
the saltpeter, without giving them any other trouble than that of picking it up. Herbert found
a vein of it at the foot of Mount Franklin, and they had nothing to do but purify this salt.

These different works lasted a week. They were finished before the transformation of the sulphuret
into sulphate of iron had been accomplished. During the following days the settlers had time
to construct a furnace of bricks of a particular arrangement, to serve for the distillation
of the sulphate or iron when it had been obtained. All this was finished about the 18th of
May, nearly at the time when the chemical transformation terminated. Gideon Spilett, Herbert,
Neb, and Pencroft, skillfully directed by the engineer, had become most clever workmen. Before
all masters, necessity is the one most listened to, and who teaches the best.

When the heap of pyrites had been entirely reduced by fire, the result of the operation, consisting
of sulphate of iron, sulphate of alumina, flint, remains of coal, and cinders was placed in
a basinful of water. They stirred this mixture, let it settle, then decanted it, and obtained
a clear liquid containing in solution sulphate of iron and sulphate of alumina, the other matters
remaining solid, since they are insoluble. Lastly, this liquid being partly evaporated, crystals
of sulphate of iron were deposited, and the not evaporated liquid, which contained the sulphate
of alumina, was thrown away.

Cyrus Harding had now at his disposal a large quantity of these sulphate of iron crystals,
from which the sulphuric acid had to be extracted. The making of sulphuric acid is a very expensive
manufacture. Considerable works are necessary--a special set of tools, an apparatus of platina,
leaden chambers, unassailable by the acid, and in which the transformation is performed, etc.
The engineer had none of these at his disposal, but he knew that, in Bohemia especially, sulphuric
acid is manufactured by very simple means, which have also the advantage of producing it to
a superior degree of concentration. It is thus that the acid known under the name of Nordhausen
acid is made.

To obtain sulphuric acid, Cyrus Harding had only one operation to make, to calcine the sulphate
of iron crystals in a closed vase, so that the sulphuric acid should distil in vapor, which
vapor, by condensation, would produce the acid.

The crystals were placed in pots, and the heat from the furnace would distil the sulphuric
acid. The operation was successfully completed, and on the 20th of May, twelve days after commencing
it, the engineer was the possessor of the agent which later he hoped to use in so many different
ways.

Now, why did he wish for this agent? Simply to produce azotic acid; and that was easy, since
saltpeter, attacked by sulphuric acid, gives azotic, or nitric, acid by distillation.

But, after all, how was he going to employ this azotic acid? His companions were still ignorant
of this, for he had not informed them of the result at which he aimed.

However, the engineer had nearly accomplished his purpose, and by a last operation he would
procure the substance which had given so much trouble.

Taking some azotic acid, he mixed it with glycerine, which had been previously concentrated
by evaporation, subjected to the water-bath, and he obtained, without even employing a refrigerant
mixture, several pints of an oily yellow mixture.

This last operation Cyrus Harding had made alone, in a retired place, at a distance from the
Chimneys, for he feared the danger of an explosion, and when he showed a bottle of this liquid
to his friends, he contented himself with saying,--

"Here is nitro-glycerine!"

It was really this terrible production, of which the explosive power is perhaps tenfold that
of ordinary powder, and which has already caused so many accidents. However, since a way has
been found to transform it into dynamite, that is to say, to mix with it some solid substance,
clay or sugar, porous enough to hold it, the dangerous liquid has been used with some security.
But dynamite was not yet known at the time when the settlers worked on Lincoln Island.

"And is it that liquid that is going to blow up our rocks?" said Pencroft incredulously.

"Yes, my friend," replied the engineer, "and this nitro-glycerine will produce so much the
more effect, as the granite is extremely hard, and will oppose a greater resistance to the
explosion."

"And when shall we see this, captain?"

"To-morrow, as soon as we have dug a hole for the mine, replied the engineer."

The next day, the 21st of May, at daybreak, the miners went to the point which formed the eastern
shore of Lake Grant, and was only five hundred feet from the coast. At this place, the plateau
inclined downwards from the waters, which were only restrained by their granite case. Therefore,
if this case was broken, the water would escape by the opening and form a stream, which, flowing
over the inclined surface of the plateau, would rush on to the beach. Consequently, the level
of the lake would be greatly lowered, and the opening where the water escaped would be exposed,
which was their final aim.

Under the engineer's directions, Pencroft, armed with a pickaxe, which he handled skillfully
and vigorously, attacked the granite. The hole was made on the point of the shore, slanting,
so that it should meet a much lower level than that of the water of the lake. In this way the
explosive force, by scattering the rock, would open a large place for the water to rush out.

The work took some time, for the engineer, wishing to produce a great effect, intended to devote
not less than seven quarts of nitro-glycerine to the operation. But Pencroft, relieved by Neb,
did so well, that towards four o'clock in the evening, the mine was finished.

Now the question of setting fire to the explosive substance was raised. Generally, nitro-glycerine
is ignited by caps of fulminate, which in bursting cause the explosion. A shock is therefore
needed to produce the explosion, for, simply lighted, this substance would burn without exploding.

Cyrus Harding could certainly have fabricated a percussion cap. In default of fulminate, he
could easily obtain a substance similar to guncotton, since he had azotic acid at his disposal.
This substance, pressed in a cartridge, and introduced among the nitro-glycerine, would burst
by means of a fuse, and cause the explosion.

But Cyrus Harding knew that nitro-glycerine would explode by a shock. He resolved to employ
this means, and try another way, if this did not succeed.

In fact, the blow of a hammer on a few drops of nitro-glycerine, spread out on a hard surface,
was enough to create an explosion. But the operator could not be there to give the blow, without
becoming a victim to the operation. Harding, therefore, thought of suspending a mass of iron,
weighing several pounds, by means of a fiber, to an upright just above the mine. Another long
fiber, previously impregnated with sulphur, was attached to the middle of the first, by one
end, while the other lay on the ground several feet distant from the mine. The second fiber
being set on fire, it would burn till it reached the first. This catching fire in its turn,
would break, and the mass of iron would fall on the nitro-glycerine. This apparatus being then
arranged, the engineer, after having sent his companions to a distance, filled the hole, so
that the nitro-glycerine was on a level with the opening; then he threw a few drops of it on
the surface of the rock, above which the mass of iron was already suspended.

This done, Harding lit the end of the sulphured fiber, and leaving the place, he returned with
his companions to the Chimneys.

The fiber was intended to burn five and twenty minutes, and, in fact, five and twenty minutes
afterwards a most tremendous explosion was heard. The island appeared to tremble to its very
foundation. Stones were projected in the air as if by the eruption of a volcano. The shock
produced by the displacing of the air was such, that the rocks of the Chimneys shook. The settlers,
although they were more than two miles from the mine, were thrown on the ground.

They rose, climbed the plateau, and ran towards the place where the bank of the lake must have
been shattered by the explosion.

A cheer escaped them! A large rent was seen in the granite! A rapid stream of water rushed
foaming across the plateau and dashed down a height of three hundred feet on to the beach!

Chapter 18

Cyrus Harding's project had succeeded, but, according to his usual habit he showed no satisfaction;
with closed lips and a fixed look, he remained motionless. Herbert was in ecstasies, Neb bounded
with joy, Pencroft nodded his great head, murmuring these words,--

"Come, our engineer gets on capitally!"

The nitro-glycerine had indeed acted powerfully. The opening which it had made was so large
that the volume of water which escaped through this new outlet was at least treble that which
before passed through the old one. The result was, that a short time after the operation the
level of the lake would be lowered two feet, or more.

The settlers went to the Chimneys to take some pickaxes, iron-tipped spears, string made of
fibers, flint and steel; they then returned to the plateau, Top accompanying them.

On the way the sailor could not help saying to the engineer,--

"Don't you think, captain, that by means of that charming liquid you have made, one could blow
up the whole of our island?"

"Without any doubt, the island, continents, and the world itself," replied the engineer. "It
is only a question of quantity."

"Then could you not use this nitro-glycerine for loading firearms?" asked the sailor.

"No, Pencroft; for it is too explosive a substance. But it would be easy to make some guncotton,
or even ordinary powder, as we have azotic acid, saltpeter, sulphur, and coal. Unhappily, it
is the guns which we have not got.

"Oh, captain," replied the sailor, "with a little determination--"

Pencroft had erased the word "impossible" from the dictionary of Lincoln Island.

The settlers, having arrived at Prospect Heights, went immediately towards that point of the
lake near which was the old opening now uncovered. This outlet had now become practicable,
since the water no longer rushed through it, and it would doubtless be easy to explore the
interior.

In a few minutes the settlers had reached the lower point of the lake, and a glance showed
them that the object had been attained.

In fact, in the side of the lake, and now above the surface of the water, appeared the long-looked-for
opening. A narrow ridge, left bare by the retreat of the water, allowed them to approach it.
This orifice was nearly twenty feet in width, but scarcely two in height. It was like the mouth
of a drain at the edge of the pavement, and therefore did not offer an easy passage to the
settlers; but Neb and Pencroft, taking their pickaxes, soon made it of a suitable height.

The engineer then approached, and found that the sides of the opening, in its upper part at
least, had not a slope of more than from thirty to thirty-five degrees. It was therefore practicable,
and, provided that the declivity did not increase, it would be easy to descend even to the
level of the sea. If then, as was probable, some vast cavity existed in the interior of the
granite, it might, perhaps, be of great use.

"Well, captain, what are we stopping for?" asked the sailor, impatient to enter the narrow
passage. "You see Top has got before us!"

"Very well," replied the engineer. "But we must see our way. Neb, go and cut some resinous
branches."

Neb and Herbert ran to the edge of the lake, shaded with pines and other green trees, and soon
returned with some branches, which they made into torches. The torches were lighted with flint
and steel, and Cyrus Harding leading, the settlers ventured into the dark passage, which the
overplus of the lake had formerly filled.

Contrary to what might have been supposed, the diameter of the passage increased as the explorers
proceeded, so that they very soon were able to stand upright. The granite, worn by the water
for an infinite time, was very slippery, and falls were to be dreaded. But the settlers were
all attached to each other by a cord, as is frequently done in ascending mountains. Happily
some projections of the granite, forming regular steps, made the descent less perilous. Drops,
still hanging from the rocks, shone here and there under the light of the torches, and the
explorers guessed that the sides were clothed with innumerable stalactites. The engineer examined
this black granite. There was not a stratum, not a break in it. The mass was compact, and of
an extremely close grain. The passage dated, then, from the very origin of the island. It was
not the water which little by little had hollowed it. Pluto and not Neptune had bored it with
his own hand, and on the wall traces of an eruptive work could be distinguished, which all
the washing of the water had not been able totally to efface.

The settlers descended very slowly. They could not but feel a certain awe, in this venturing
into these unknown depths, for the first time visited by human beings. They did not speak,
but they thought; and the thought came to more than one, that some polypus or other gigantic
cephalopod might inhabit the interior cavities, which were in communication with the sea. However,
Top kept at the head of the little band, and they could rely on the sagacity of the dog, who
would not fail to give the alarm if there was any need for it.

After having descended about a hundred feet, following a winding road, Harding who was walking
on before, stopped, and his companions came up with him. The place where they had halted was
wider, so as to form a cavern of moderate dimensions. Drops of water fell from the vault, but
that did not prove that they oozed through the rock. They were simply the last traces left
by the torrent which had so long thundered through this cavity, and the air there was pure
though slightly damp, but producing no mephitic exhalation.

"Well, my dear Cyrus," said Gideon Spilett, "here is a very secure retreat, well hid in the
depths of the rock, but it is, however, uninhabitable."

"Why uninhabitable?" asked the sailor.

"Because it is too small and too dark."

"Couldn't we enlarge it, hollow it out, make openings to let in light and air?" replied Pencroft,
who now thought nothing impossible.

"Let us go on with our exploration," said Cyrus Harding. "Perhaps lower down, nature will have
spared us this labor."

"We have only gone a third of the way," observed Herbert.

"Nearly a third," replied Harding, "for we have descended a hundred feet from the opening,
and it is not impossible that a hundred feet farther down--"

"Where is Top?" asked Neb, interrupting his master.

They searched the cavern, but the dog was not there.

"Most likely he has gone on," said Pencroft.

"Let us join him," replied Harding.

The descent was continued. The engineer carefully observed all the deviations of the passage,
and notwithstanding so many detours, he could easily have given an account of its general direction,
which went towards the sea.

The settlers had gone some fifty feet farther, when their attention was attracted by distant
sounds which came up from the depths. They stopped and listened. These sounds, carried through
the passage as through an acoustic tube, came clearly to the ear.

"That is Top barking!" cried Herbert.

"Yes," replied Pencroft, "and our brave dog is barking furiously!"

"We have our iron-tipped spears," said Cyrus Harding. "Keep on your guard, and forward!"

"It is becoming more and more interesting," murmured Gideon Spilett in the sailor's ear, who
nodded. Harding and his companions rushed to the help of their dog. Top's barking became more
and more perceptible, and it seemed strangely fierce. Was he engaged in a struggle with some
animal whose retreat he had disturbed? Without thinking of the danger to which they might be
exposed, the explorers were now impelled by an irresistible curiosity, and in a few minutes,
sixteen feet lower they rejoined Top.

There the passage ended in a vast and magnificent cavern.

Top was running backwards and forwards, barking furiously. Pencroft and Neb, waving their torches,
threw the light into every crevice; and at the same time, Harding, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert,
their spears raised, were ready for any emergency which might arise. The enormous cavern was
empty. The settlers explored it in every direction. There was nothing there, not an animal,
not a human being; and yet Top continued to bark. Neither caresses nor threats could make him
be silent.

"There must be a place somewhere, by which the waters of the lake reached the sea," said the
engineer.

"Of course," replied Pencroft, "and we must take care not to tumble into a hole."

"Go, Top, go!" cried Harding.

The dog, excited by his master's words, ran towards the extremity of the cavern, and there
redoubled his barking.

They followed him, and by the light of the torches, perceived the mouth of a regular well in
the granite. It was by this that the water escaped; and this time it was not an oblique and
practicable passage, but a perpendicular well, into which it was impossible to venture.

The torches were held over the opening: nothing could be seen. Harding took a lighted branch,
and threw it into the abyss. The blazing resin, whose illuminating power increased still more
by the rapidity of its fall, lighted up the interior of the well, but yet nothing appeared.
The flame then went out with a slight hiss, which showed that it had reached the water, that
is to say, the level of the sea.

The engineer, calculating the time employed in its fall, was able to calculate the depth of
the well, which was found to be about ninety feet.

The floor of the cavern must thus be situated ninety feet above the level of the sea.

"Here is our dwelling," said Cyrus Harding.

"But it was occupied by some creature," replied Gideon Spilett, whose curiosity was not yet
satisfied.

"Well, the creature, amphibious or otherwise, has made off through this opening," replied the
engineer, "and has left the place for us."

"Never mind," added the sailor, "I should like very much to be Top just for a quarter of an
hour, for he doesn't bark for nothing!"

Cyrus Harding looked at his dog, and those of his companions who were near him might have heard
him murmur these words,--

"Yes, I believe that Top knows more than we do about a great many things."

However, the wishes of the settlers were for the most part satisfied. Chance, aided by the
marvelous sagacity of their leader, had done them great service. They had now at their disposal
a vast cavern, the size of which could not be properly calculated by the feeble light of their
torches, but it would certainly be easy to divide it into rooms, by means of brick partitions,
or to use it, if not as a house, at least as a spacious apartment. The water which had left
it could not return. The place was free.

Two difficulties remained; firstly, the possibility of lighting this excavation in the midst
of solid rock; secondly, the necessity of rendering the means of access more easy. It was useless
to think of lighting it from above, because of the enormous thickness of the granite which
composed the ceiling; but perhaps the outer wall next the sea might be pierced. Cyrus Harding,
during the descent, had roughly calculated its obliqueness, and consequently the length of
the passage, and was therefore led to believe that the outer wall could not be very thick.
If light was thus obtained, so would a means of access, for it would be as easy to pierce a
door as windows, and to establish an exterior ladder.

Harding made known his ideas to his companions.

"Then, captain, let us set to work!" replied Pencroft. "I have my pickaxe, and I shall soon
make my way through this wall. Where shall I strike?"

"Here," replied the engineer, showing the sturdy sailor a considerable recess in the side,
which would much diminish the thickness. 

Just sort of time and circumstances when, in another place, Judge might be expected to fall asleep
on Bench.

Citizen ROBERT GALNIGAD BONTINE CUNINGHAME GRAHAM, sitting on Bench behind ASQUITH, listening
like the rest of us to his well-ordered argument. The Citizen a little tired with Sunday's
peregrination.

Been walking about all day with stout stick in hand, and blood-red
handkerchief in pocket, ready for any emergency.

At favourable moment blood-red handkerchief would flash forth, tied
on to stick with timely twine, and there's your flag!

Republic proclaimed; Citizen GRAHAM first President, under title GALNIGAD I., and before Secretary-of-State
MATTHEWS quite knew where he was, he would be viewing the scene from
an elevated position pendant in Trafalgar Square.

Chance had not come; GRAHAM still plain Citizen, in House of Commons
listening to commonplace proposals about unearned increment.

This evidently wouldn't do. Suddenly jumped up; shook fist at back of ASQUITH's unoffending
head, and, à propos de bottes, "wanted to know about the swindling
companies and their shareholders?"

ASQUITH
really hadn't been saying anything about them; turning round beheld Citizen GRAHAM glaring upon
him, throwing about his arms as if he were semaphore signalling to
the rearguard of Republican Army.

"Order!
Order!" cried SPEAKER, sternly.

"Oh, you can suspend me if you like," said Citizen GRAHAM, airily,
as if it were no hanging matter.

Members angrily joined in cry of "Order! Order!" SPEAKER promptly "named" the Citizen-- not with
his full list of names, for time was pressing.

"Name away!" roared the Citizen, whom nothing could disconcert. HOME SECRETARY having no fear of
the lamppost before his eyes, formally moved that the Citizen be
suspended.

GRAHAM snapped his fingers at HOME SECRETARY. "Suspend away!" he
shouted.

Members looked on aghast.

ROWLANDS standing at the Bar, conscious of his hair slowly uplifting.

Belonged to the advanced guard himself; but this going little too
far.

LUBBOCK, sitting near Citizen, strategically attempted to change the conversation. "Did you
ever," he said, blandly, "notice how the queen bee, when she is--"

"Oh, you bee----" said the Citizen, roughly shaking off the gentle
Bee-master.

SAM SMITH shudderingly covered his face with his hands. "I'm so afraid," he whispered, "of the old
A-dam coming out." And it did, Citizen GRAHAM himself immediately after going out, stopping at
the Bar to shuffle through a few steps of the Carmagnole, and trumpet
defiance on his blood-red handkerchief.

After this, a mere flash of lightning through the low clouds of a
dull afternoon, ASQUITH went on with his speech, debate proceeded
as if nothing had happened, and HALDANE's Bill thrown out by 223 Votes
against 148.

Business done.-- Citizen GRAHAM suspended.

Friday.-- House met to-day as it did yesterday and day before to discuss
Bills and Motions.

But all the talk really turns upon date of Dissolution, and what
is likely to happen after a General Election.

SQUIRE OF MALWOOD serenely confident in the future.

"Yes," I said to him to-night, "it must be a great comfort to you to reflect that when you come
into office you will not have to beat about for a programme. You've got your Newcastle platform,
and I suppose a Liberal Ministry will stand upon that."

"You remind
me, dear TOBY," said the Squire, with a far-away look, "of a story
COLERIDGE brought home from his memorable visit to the United States.
On his way down to Chicago he went out on the platform of the car
to breathe the air and look at the scenery.'Come off that,'said the
Conductor, following him,'you can't stand on the platform.'' My good
man,'said JOHN DUKE-- you know his silver voice and his bland manner--'what
is a platform for, if not to stand on?'' Platforms,'said the Conductor,
sententiously,'are not made to stand on, they are made to get in
on.'" Then they began to climb again.

Soon fresher air was felt. The drops of water, dried by evaporation, no longer sparkled on
the walls. The flaring torches began to grow dim. The one which Neb carried went out, and if
they did not wish to find their way in the dark, they must hasten.

This was done, and a little before four o'clock, at the moment when the sailor's torch went
out in its turn, Cyrus Harding and his companions passed out of the passage.

Chapter 19

The next day, the 22nd of May, the arrangement of their new dwelling was commenced. In fact,
the settlers longed to exchange the insufficient shelter of the Chimneys for this large and
healthy retreat, in the midst of solid rock, and sheltered from the water both of the sea and
sky. Their former dwelling was not, however, to be entirely abandoned, for the engineer intended
to make a manufactory of it for important works. Cyrus Harding's first care was to find out
the position of the front of Granite House from the outside. He went to the beach, and as the
pickaxe when it escaped from the hands of the reporter must have fallen perpendicularly to
the foot of the cliff, the finding it would be sufficient to show the place where the hole
had been pierced in the granite.

The pickaxe was easily found, and the hole could be seen in a perpendicular line above the
spot where it was stuck in the sand. Some rock pigeons were already flying in and out of the
narrow opening; they evidently thought that Granite House had been discovered on purpose for
them. It was the engineer's intention to divide the right portion of the cavern into several
rooms, preceded by an entrance passage, and to light it by means of five windows and a door,
pierced in the front. Pencroft was much pleased with the five windows, but he could not understand
the use of the door, since the passage offered a natural staircase, through which it would
always be easy to enter Granite House.

"My friend," replied Harding, "if it is easy for us to reach our dwelling by this passage,
it will be equally easy for others besides us. I mean, on the contrary, to block up that opening,
to seal it hermetically, and, if it is necessary, to completely hide the entrance by making
a dam, and thus causing the water of the lake to rise."

"And how shall we get in?" asked the sailor.

"By an outside ladder," replied Cyrus Harding, "a rope ladder, which, once drawn up, will render
access to our dwelling impossible."

"But why so many precautions?" asked Pencroft. "As yet we have seen no dangerous animals. As
to our island being inhabited by natives, I don't believe it!"

"Are you quite sure of that, Pencroft?" asked the engineer, looking at the sailor.

"Of course we shall not be quite sure, till we have explored it in every direction," replied
Pencroft.

"Yes," said Harding, "for we know only a small portion of it as yet. But at any rate, if we
have no enemies in the interior, they may come from the exterior, for parts of the Pacific
are very dangerous. We must be provided against every contingency."

Cyrus Harding spoke wisely; and without making any further objection, Pencroft prepared to
execute his orders.

The front of Granite House was then to be lighted by five windows and a door, besides a large
bay window and some smaller oval ones, which would admit plenty of light to enter into the
marvelous nave which was to be their chief room. This facade, situated at a height of eighty
feet above the ground, was exposed to the east, and the rising sun saluted it with its first
rays. It was found to be just at that part of the cliff which was between the projection at
the mouth of the Mercy and a perpendicular line traced above the heap of rocks which formed
the Chimneys. Thus the winds from the northeast would only strike it obliquely, for it was
protected by the projection. Besides, until the window-frames were made, the engineer meant
to close the openings with thick shutters, which would prevent either wind or rain from entering,
and which could be concealed in need.

The first work was to make the openings. This would have taken too long with the pickaxe alone,
and it is known that Harding was an ingenious man. He had still a quantity of nitro-glycerine
at his disposal, and he employed it usefully. By means of this explosive substance the rock
was broken open at the very places chosen by the engineer. Then, with the pickaxe and spade,
the windows and doors were properly shaped, the jagged edges were smoothed off, and a few days
alter the beginning of the work, Granite House was abundantly lighted by the rising sun, whose
rays penetrated into its most secret recesses. Following the plan proposed by Cyrus Harding,
the space was to be divided into five compartments looking out on the sea; to the right, an
entry with a door, which would meet the ladder; then a kitchen, thirty feet long; a dining-room,
measuring forty feet; a sleeping-room, of equal size; and lastly, a "Visitor's room," petitioned
for by Pencroft, and which was next to the great hall. These rooms, or rather this suite of
rooms, would not occupy all the depth of the cave. There would be also a corridor and a storehouse,
in which their tools, provisions, and stores would be kept. All the productions of the island,
the flora as well as the fauna, were to be there in the best possible state of preservation,
and completely sheltered from the damp. There was no want of space, so that each object could
be methodically arranged. Besides, the colonists had still at their disposal the little grotto
above the great cavern, which was like the garret of the new dwelling.

This plan settled, it had only to be put into execution. The miners became brickmakers again,
then the bricks were brought to the foot of Granite House. Till then, Harding and his companions
had only entered the cavern by the long passage. This mode of communication obliged them first
to climb Prospect Heights, making a detour by the river's bank, and then to descend two hundred
feet through the passage, having to climb as far when they wished to return to the plateau.
This was a great loss of time, and was also very fatiguing. Cyrus Harding, therefore, resolved
to proceed without any further delay to the fabrication of a strong rope ladder, which, once
raised, would render Granite House completely inaccessible.

This ladder was manufactured with extreme care, and its uprights, formed of the twisted fibers
of a species of cane, had the strength of a thick cable. As to the rounds, they were made of
a sort of red cedar, with light, strong branches; and this apparatus was wrought by the masterly
hand of Pencroft.

Other ropes were made with vegetable fibers, and a sort of crane with a tackle was fixed at
the door. In this way bricks could easily be raised into Granite House. The transport of the
materials being thus simplified, the arrangement of the interior could begin immediately. There
was no want of lime, and some thousands of bricks were there ready to be used. The framework
of the partitions was soon raised, very roughly at first, and in a short time, the cave was
divided into rooms and storehouses, according to the plan agreed upon.

These different works progressed rapidly under the direction of the engineer, who himself handled
the hammer and the trowel. No labor came amiss to Cyrus Harding, who thus set an example to
his intelligent and zealous companions. They worked with confidence, even gaily, Pencroft always
having some joke to crack, sometimes carpenter, sometimes rope-maker, sometimes mason, while
he communicated his good humor to all the members of their little world. His faith in the engineer
was complete; nothing could disturb it. He believed him capable of undertaking anything and
succeeding in everything. The question of boots and clothes--assuredly a serious question,--that
of light during the winter months, utilizing the fertile parts of the island, transforming
the wild flora into cultivated flora, it all appeared easy to him; Cyrus Harding helping, everything
would be done in time. He dreamed of canals facilitating the transport of the riches of the
ground; workings of quarries and mines; machines for every industrial manufacture; railroads;
yes, railroads! of which a network would certainly one day cover Lincoln Island.

The engineer let Pencroft talk. He did not put down the aspirations of this brave heart. He
knew how communicable confidence is; he even smiled to hear him speak, and said nothing of
the uneasiness for the future which he felt. In fact, in that part of the Pacific, out of the
course of vessels, it was to be feared that no help would ever come to them. It was on themselves,
on themselves alone, that the settlers must depend, for the distance of Lincoln Island from
all other land was such, that to hazard themselves in a boat, of a necessarily inferior construction,
would be a serious and perilous thing.

"But," as the sailor said, "they quite took the wind out of the sails of the Robinsons, for
whom everything was done by a miracle."

In fact, they were energetic; an energetic man will succeed where an indolent one would vegetate
and inevitably perish.

Herbert distinguished himself in these works. He was intelligent and active; understanding
quickly, he performed well; and Cyrus Harding became more and more attached to the boy. Herbert
had a lively and reverent love for the engineer. Pencroft saw the close sympathy which existed
between the two, but he was not in the least jealous. Neb was Neb: he was what he would be
always, courage, zeal, devotion, self-denial personified. He had the same faith in his master
that Pencroft had, but he showed it less vehemently. When the sailor was enthusiastic, Neb
always looked as if he would say, "Nothing could be more natural." Pencroft and he were great
friends.

As to Gideon Spilett, he took part in the common work, and was not less skilful in it than
his companions, which always rather astonished the sailor. A "journalist," clever, not only
in understanding, but in performing everything.

The ladder was finally fixed on the 28th of May. There were not less than a hundred rounds
in this perpendicular height of eighty feet. Harding had been able, fortunately, to divide
it in two parts, profiting by an overhanging of the cliff which made a projection forty feet
above the ground. This projection, carefully leveled by the pickaxe, made a sort of platform,
to which they fixed the first ladder, of which the oscillation was thus diminished one-half,
and a rope permitted it to be raised to the level of Granite House. As to the second ladder,
it was secured both at its lower part, which rested on the projection, and at its upper end,
which was fastened to the door. In short the ascent had been made much easier. Besides, Cyrus
Harding hoped later to establish an hydraulic apparatus, which would avoid all fatigue and
loss of time, for the inhabitants of Granite House.

The settlers soon became habituated to the use of this ladder. They were light and active,
and Pencroft, as a sailor, accustomed to run up the masts and shrouds, was able to give them
lessons. But it was also necessary to give them to Top. The poor dog, with his four paws, was
not formed for this sort of exercise. But Pencroft was such a zealous master, that Top ended
by properly performing his ascents, and soon mounted the ladder as readily as his brethren
in the circus. It need not be said that the sailor was proud of his pupil. However, more than
once Pencroft hoisted him on his back, which Top never complained of.

It must be mentioned here, that during these works, which were actively conducted, for the
bad season was approaching, the alimentary question was not neglected. Every day, the reporter
and Herbert, who had been voted purveyors to the colony, devoted some hours to the chase. As
yet, they only hunted in Jacamar Wood, on the left of the river, because, for want of a bridge
or boat, the Mercy had not yet been crossed. All the immense woods, to which the name of the
Forests of the Far West had been given, were not explored. They reserved this important excursion
for the first fine days of the next spring. But Jacamar Wood was full of game; kangaroos and
boars abounded, and the hunters iron-tipped spears and bows and arrows did wonders. Besides,
Herbert discovered towards the southwest point of the lagoon a natural warren, a slightly damp
meadow, covered with willows and aromatic herbs which scented the air, such as thyme, basil,
savory, all the sweet-scented species of the labiated plants, which the rabbits appeared to
be particularly fond of.

On the reporter observing that since the table was spread for the rabbits, it was strange that
the rabbits themselves should be wanting, the two sportsmen carefully explored the warren.
At any rate, it produced an abundance of useful plants, and a naturalist would have had a good
opportunity of studying many specimens of the vegetable kingdom. Herbert gathered several shoots
of the basil, rosemary, balm, betony, etc., which possess different medicinal properties, some
pectoral, astringent, febrifuge, others anti-spasmodic, or anti-rheumatic. When, afterwards,
Pencroft asked the use of this collection of herbs,--

"For medicine," replied the lad, "to treat us when we are ill."

"Why should we be ill, since there are no doctors in the island?" asked Pencroft quite seriously.

There was no reply to be made to that, but the lad went on with his collection all the same,
and it was well received at Granite House. Besides these medicinal herbs, he added a plant
known in North America as "Oswego tea," which made an excellent beverage.

At last, by searching thoroughly, the hunters arrived at the real site of the warren. There
the ground was perforated like a sieve.

"Here are the burrows!" cried Herbert.

"Yes," replied the reporter, "so I see."

"But are they inhabited?"

"That is the question."

This was soon answered. Almost immediately, hundreds of little animals, similar to rabbits,
fled in every direction, with such rapidity that even Top could not overtake them. Hunters
and dog ran in vain; these rodents escaped them easily. But the reporter resolved not to leave
the place, until he had captured at least half-a-dozen of the quadrupeds. He wished to stock
their larder first, and domesticate those which they might take later. It would not have been
difficult to do this, with a few snares stretched at the openings of the burrows. But at this
moment they had neither snares, nor anything to make them of. They must, therefore, be satisfied
with visiting each hole, and rummaging in it with a stick, hoping by dint of patience to do
what could not be done in any other way.

At last, after half an hour, four rodents were taken in their holes. They were similar to their
European brethren, and are commonly known by the name of American rabbits.

This produce of the chase was brought back to Granite House, and figured at the evening repast.
The tenants of the warren were not at all to be despised, for they were delicious. It was a
valuable resource of the colony, and it appeared to be inexhaustible.

On the 31st of May the partitions were finished. The rooms had now only to be furnished, and
this would be work for the long winter days. A chimney was established in the first room, which
served as a kitchen. The pipe destined to conduct the smoke outside gave some trouble to these
amateur bricklayers. It appeared simplest to Harding to make it of brick clay; as creating
an outlet for it to the upper plateau was not to be thought of, a hole was pierced in the granite
above the window of the kitchen, and the pipe met it like that of an iron stove. Perhaps the
winds which blew directly against the facade would make the chimney smoke, but these winds
were rare, and besides, Master Neb, the cook, was not so very particular about that.

When these interior arrangements were finished, the engineer occupied himself in blocking up
the outlet by the lake, so as to prevent any access by that way. Masses of rock were rolled
to the entrance and strongly cemented together. Cyrus Harding did not yet realize his plan
of drowning this opening under the waters of the lake, by restoring them to their former level
by means of a dam. He contented himself with hiding the obstruction with grass and shrubs,
which were planted in the interstices of the rocks, and which next spring would sprout thickly.
However, he used the waterfall so as to lead a small stream of fresh water to the new dwelling.
A little trench, made below their level, produced this result; and this derivation from a pure
and inexhaustible source yielded twenty-five or thirty gallons a day. There would never be
any want of water at Granite House. At last all was finished, and it was time, for the bad
season was near. Thick shutters closed the windows of the facade, until the engineer had time
to make glass.

Gideon Spilett had very artistically arranged on the rocky projections around the windows plants
of different kinds, as well as long streaming grass, so that the openings were picturesquely
framed in green, which had a pleasing effect.

The inhabitants of this solid, healthy, and secure dwelling, could not but be charmed with
their work. The view from the windows extended over a boundless horizon, which was closed by
the two Mandible Capes on the north, and Claw Cape on the south. All Union Bay was spread before
them. Yes, our brave settlers had reason to be satisfied, and Pencroft was lavish in his praise
of what he humorously called, "his apartments on the fifth floor above the ground!"

Chapter 20

The winter season set in with the month of June, which corresponds with the month of December
in the Northern Hemisphere. It began with showers and squalls, which succeeded each other without
intermission. The tenants of Granite House could appreciate the advantages of a dwelling which
sheltered them from the inclement weather. The Chimneys would have been quite insufficient
to protect them against the rigor of winter, and it was to be feared that the high tides would
make another irruption. Cyrus Harding had taken precautions against this contingency, so as
to preserve as much as possible the forge and furnace which were established there.

During the whole of the month of June the time was employed in different occupations, which
excluded neither hunting nor fishing, the larder being, therefore, abundantly supplied. Pencroft,
so soon as he had leisure, proposed to set some traps, from which he expected great results.
He soon made some snares with creepers, by the aid of which the warren henceforth every day
furnished its quota of rodents. Neb employed nearly all his time in salting or smoking meat,
which insured their always having plenty of provisions. The question of clothes was now seriously
discussed, the settlers having no other garments than those they wore when the balloon threw
them on the island. These clothes were warm and good; they had taken great care of them as
well as of their linen, and they were perfectly whole, but they would soon need to be replaced.
Moreover, if the winter was severe, the settlers would suffer greatly from cold.

On this subject the ingenuity of Harding was at fault. They must provide for their most pressing
wants, settle their dwelling, and lay in a store of food; thus the cold might come upon them
before the question of clothes had been settled. They must therefore make up their minds to
pass this first winter without additional clothing. When the fine season came round again,
they would regularly hunt those musmons which had been seen on the expedition to Mount Franklin,
and the wool once collected, the engineer would know how to make it into strong warm stuff....
How? He would consider.

"Well, we are free to roast ourselves at Granite House!" said Pencroft. "There are heaps of
fuel, and no reason for sparing it."

"Besides," added Gideon Spilett, "Lincoln Island is not situated under a very high latitude,
and probably the winters here are not severe. Did you not say, Cyrus, that this thirty-fifth
parallel corresponded to that of Spain in the other hemisphere?"

"Doubtless," replied the engineer, "but some winters in Spain are very cold! No want of snow
and ice; and perhaps Lincoln Island is just as rigourously tried. However, it is an island,
and as such, I hope that the temperature will be more moderate."

"Why, captain?" asked Herbert.

"Because the sea, my boy, may be considered as an immense reservoir, in which is stored the
heat of the summer. When winter comes, it restores this heat, which insures for the regions
near the ocean a medium temperature, less high in summer, but less low in winter."

"We shall prove that," replied Pencroft. "But I don't want to bother myself about whether it
will be cold or not. One thing is certain, that is that the days are already short, and the
evenings long. Suppose we talk about the question of light."

"Nothing is easier," replied Harding.

"To talk about?" asked the sailor.

"To settle."

"And when shall we begin?"

"To-morrow, by having a seal hunt."

"To make candles?"

"Yes."

Such was the engineer's project; and it was quite feasible, since he had lime and sulphuric
acid, while the amphibians of the islet would furnish the fat necessary for the manufacture.

They were now at the 4th of June. It was Whit Sunday and they agreed to observe this feast.
All work was suspended, and prayers were offered to Heaven. But these prayers were now thanksgivings.
The settlers in Lincoln Island were no longer the miserable castaways thrown on the islet.
They asked for nothing more--they gave thanks. The next day, the 5th of June, in rather uncertain
weather, they set out for the islet. They had to profit by the low tide to cross the Channel,
and it was agreed that they would construct, for this purpose, as well as they could, a boat
which would render communication so much easier, and would also permit them to ascend the Mercy,
at the time of their grand exploration of the southwest of the island, which was put off till
the first fine days.

The seals were numerous, and the hunters, armed with their iron-tipped spears, easily killed
half-a-dozen. Neb and Pencroft skinned them, and only brought back to Granite House their fat
and skin, this skin being intended for the manufacture of boots.

The result of the hunt was this: nearly three hundred pounds of fat, all to be employed in
the fabrication of candles.

The operation was extremely simple, and if it did not yield absolutely perfect results, they
were at least very useful. Cyrus Harding would only have had at his disposal sulphuric acid,
but by heating this acid with the neutral fatty bodies he could separate the glycerine; then
from this new combination, he easily separated the olein, the margarin, and the stearin, by
employing boiling water. But to simplify the operation, he preferred to saponify the fat by
means of lime. By this he obtained a calcareous soap, easy to decompose by sulphuric acid,
which precipitated the lime into the state of sulphate, and liberated the fatty acids.

From these three acids-oleic, margaric, and stearic-the first, being liquid, was driven out
by a sufficient pressure. As to the two others, they formed the very substance of which the
candles were to be molded.

This operation did not last more than four and twenty hours. The wicks, after several trials,
were made of vegetable fibers, and dipped in the liquefied substance, they formed regular stearic
candles, molded by the hand, which only wanted whiteness and polish. They would not doubtless
have the advantages of the wicks which are impregnated with boracic acid, and which vitrify
as they burn and are entirely consumed, but Cyrus Harding having manufactured a beautiful pair
of snuffers, these candles would be greatly appreciated during the long evenings in Granite House.

During this month there was no want of work in the interior of their new dwelling. The joiners
had plenty to do. They improved their tools, which were very rough, and added others also.

Scissors were made among other things, and the settlers were at last able to cut their hair,
and also to shave, or at least trim their beards. Herbert had none, Neb but little, but their
companions were bristling in a way which justified the making of the said scissors.

The manufacture of a hand-saw cost infinite trouble, but at last an instrument was obtained
which, when vigorously handled, could divide the ligneous fibers of the wood. They then made
tables, seats, cupboards, to furnish the principal rooms, and bedsteads, of which all the bedding
consisted of grass mattresses. The kitchen, with its shelves, on which rested the cooking utensils,
its brick stove, looked very well, and Neb worked away there as earnestly as if he was in a
chemist's laboratory.

But the joiners had soon to be replaced by carpenters. In fact, the waterfall created by the
explosion rendered the construction of two bridges necessary, one on Prospect Heights, the
other on the shore. Now the plateau and the shore were transversely divided by a watercourse,
which had to be crossed to reach the northern part of the island. To avoid it the colonists
had been obliged to make a considerable detour, by climbing up to the source of the Red Creek.
The simplest thing was to establish on the plateau, and on the shore, two bridges from twenty
to five and twenty feet in length. All the carpenter's work that was needed was to clear some
trees of their branches: this was a business of some days. Directly the bridges were established,
Neb and Pencroft profited by them to go to the oyster-bed which had been discovered near the
downs. They dragged with them a sort of rough cart, which replaced the former inconvenient
hurdle, and brought back some thousands of oysters, which soon increased among the rocks and
formed a bed at the mouth of the Mercy. These molluscs were of excellent quality, and the colonists
consumed some daily.

It has been seen that Lincoln Island, although its inhabitants had as yet only explored a small
portion of it, already contributed to almost all their wants. It was probable that if they
hunted into its most secret recesses, in all the wooded part between the Mercy and Reptile
Point, they would find new treasures.

The settlers in Lincoln Island had still one privation. There was no want of meat, nor of vegetable
products; those ligneous roots which they had found, when subjected to fermentation, gave them
an acid drink, which was preferable to cold water; they also made sugar, without canes or beet-roots,
by collecting the liquor which distils from the "acer saceharinum," a son of maple-tree, which
flourishes in all the temperate zones, and of which the island possessed a great number; they
made a very agreeable tea by employing the herbs brought from the warren; lastly, they had
an abundance of salt, the only mineral which is used in food... but bread was wanting.

Perhaps in time the settlers could replace this want by some equivalent, it was possible that
they might find the sago or the breadfruit tree among the forests of the south, but they had
not as yet met with these precious trees. However, Providence came directly to their aid, in
an infinitesimal proportion it is true, but Cyrus Harding, with all his intelligence, all his
ingenuity, would never have been able to produce that which, by the greatest chance, Herbert
one day found in the lining of his waistcoat, which he was occupied in setting to rights.

On this day, as it was raining in torrents, the settlers were assembled in the great hall in
Granite House, when the lad cried out all at once,--

"Look here, captain--A grain of corn!"

And he showed his companions a grain--a single grain--which from a hole in his pocket had got
into the lining of his waistcoat.

The presence of this grain was explained by the fact that Herbert, when at Richmond, used to
feed some pigeons, of which Pencroft had made him a present.

"A grain of corn?" said the engineer quickly.

"Yes, captain; but one, only one!"

"Well, my boy," said Pencroft, laughing, "we're getting on capitally, upon my word! What shall
we make with one grain of corn?"

"We will make bread of it," replied Cyrus Harding.

"Bread, cakes, tarts!" replied the sailor. "Come, the bread that this grain of corn will make
won't choke us very soon!"

Herbert, not attaching much importance to his discovery, was going to throw away the grain
in question; but Harding took it, examined it, found that it was in good condition, and looking
the sailor full in the face--"Pencroft," he asked quietly, "do you know how many ears one grain
of corn can produce?"

"One, I suppose!" replied the sailor, surprised at the question.

"Ten, Pencroft! And do you know how many grains one ear bears?"

"No, upon my word."

"About eighty!" said Cyrus Harding. "Then, if we plant this grain, at the first crop we shall
reap eight hundred grains which at the second will produce six hundred and forty thousand;
at the third, five hundred and twelve millions; at the fourth, more than four hundred thousands
of millions! There is the proportion."

Harding's companions listened without answering. These numbers astonished them. They were exact,
however.

"Yes, my friends," continued the engineer, "such are the arithmetical progressions of prolific
nature; and yet what is this multiplication of the grain of corn, of which the ear only bears
eight hundred grains, compared to the poppy-plant, which bears thirty-two thousand seeds; to
the tobacco-plant, which produces three hundred and sixty thousand? In a few years, without
the numerous causes of destruction, which arrests their fecundity, these plants would overrun
the earth."

But the engineer had not finished his lecture.

"And now, Pencroft," he continued, "do you know how many bushels four hundred thousand millions
of grains would make?"

"No," replied the sailor; "but what I do know is, that I am nothing better than a fool!"

"Well, they would make more than three millions, at a hundred and thirty thousand a bushel,
Pencroft."

"Three millions!" cried Pencroft.

"Three millions."

"In four years?"

"In four years," replied Cyrus Harding, "and even in two years, if, as I hope, in this latitude
we can obtain two crops a year."

At that, according to his usual custom, Pencroft could not reply otherwise than by a tremendous
hurrah.

"So, Herbert," added the engineer, "you have made a discovery of great importance to us. Everything,
my friends, everything can serve us in the condition in which we are. Do not forget that, I
beg of you."

"No, captain, no, we shan't forget it," replied Pencroft; "and if ever I find one of those
tobacco-seeds, which multiply by three hundred and sixty thousand, I assure you I won't throw
it away! And now, what must we do?"

"We must plant this grain," replied Herbert.

"Yes," added Gideon Spilett, "and with every possible care, for it bears in itself our future
harvests."

"Provided it grows!" cried the sailor.

"It will grow," replied Cyrus Harding.

This was the 20th of June. The time was then propitious for sowing this single precious grain
of corn. It was first proposed to plant it in a pot, but upon reflection it was decided to
leave it to nature, and confide it to the earth. This was done that very day, and it is needless
to add, that every precaution was taken that the experiment might succeed.

The weather having cleared, the settlers climbed the height above Granite House. There, on
the plateau, they chose a spot, well sheltered from the wind, and exposed to all the heat of
the midday sun. The place was cleared, carefully weeded, and searched for insects and worms;
then a bed of good earth, improved with a little lime, was made; it was surrounded by a railing;
and the grain was buried in the damp earth.

Did it not seem as if the settlers were laying the first stone of some edifice? It recalled
to Pencroft the day on which he lighted his only match, and all the anxiety of the operation.
But this time the thing was more serious. In fact, the castaways would have been always able
to procure fire, in some mode or other, but no human power could supply another grain of corn,
if unfortunately this should be lost!

Chapter 21

From this time Pencroft did not let a single day pass without going to visit what he gravely
called his "corn-field." And woe to the insects which dared to venture there! No mercy was
shown them.

Towards the end of the month of June, after incessant rain, the weather became decidedly colder,
and on the 29th a Fahrenheit thermometer would certainly have announced only twenty degrees
above zero, that is considerably below the freezing-point. The next day, the 30th of June,
the day which corresponds to the 31st of December in the northern year, was a Friday. Neb remarked
that the year finished on a bad day, but Pencroft replied that naturally the next would begin
on a good one, which was better.

At any rate it commenced by very severe cold. Ice accumulated at the mouth of the Mercy, and
it was not long before the whole expanse of the lake was frozen.

The settlers had frequently been obliged to renew their store of wood. Pencroft also had wisely
not waited till the river was frozen, but had brought enormous rafts of wood to their destination.
The current was an indefatigable moving power, and it was employed in conveying the floating
wood to the moment when the frost enchained it. To the fuel which was so abundantly supplied
by the forest, they added several cartloads of coal, which had to be brought from the foot
of the spurs of Mount Franklin. The powerful heat of the coal was greatly appreciated in the
low temperature, which on the 4th of July fell to eight degrees of Fahrenheit, that is, thirteen
degrees below zero. A second fireplace had been established in the dining-room, where they
all worked together at their different avocations. During this period of cold, Cyrus Harding
had great cause to congratulate himself on having brought to Granite House the little stream
of water from Lake Grant. Taken below the frozen surface, and conducted through the passage,
it preserved its fluidity, and arrived at an interior reservoir which had been hollowed out
at the back part of the storeroom, while the overflow ran through the well to the sea.

About this time, the weather being extremely dry, the colonists, clothed as warmly as possible,
resolved to devote a day to the exploration of that part of the island between the Mercy and
Claw Cape. It was a wide extent of marshy land, and they would probably find good sport, for
water-birds ought to swarm there.

They reckoned that it would be about eight or nine miles to go there, and as much to return,
so that the whole of the day would be occupied. As an unknown part of the island was about
to be explored, the whole colony took part in the expedition. Accordingly, on the 5th of July,
at six o'clock in the morning, when day had scarcely broken, Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett,
Herbert, Neb, and Pencroft, armed with spears, snares, bows and arrows, and provided with provisions,
left Granite House, preceded by Top, who bounded before them.

Their shortest way was to cross the Mercy on the ice, which then covered it.

"But," as the engineer justly observed, "that could not take the place of a regular bridge!"
So, the construction of a regular bridge was noted in the list of future works.

It was the first time that the settlers had set foot on the right bank of the Mercy, and ventured
into the midst of those gigantic and superb coniferae now sprinkled over with snow.

But they had not gone half a mile when from a thicket a whole family of quadrupeds, who had
made a home there, disturbed by Top, rushed forth into the open country.

"Ah! I should say those are foxes!" cried Herbert, when he saw the troop rapidly decamping.

They were foxes, but of a very large size, who uttered a sort of barking, at which Top seemed
to be very much astonished, for he stopped short in the chase, and gave the swift animals time
to disappear.

The dog had reason to be surprised, as he did not know Natural History. But, by their barking,
these foxes, with reddish-gray hair, black tails terminating in a white tuft, had betrayed
their origin. So Herbert was able, without hesitating, to give them their real name of "Arctic
foxes." They are frequently met with in Chile, in the Falkland Islands, and in all parts of
America traversed by the thirtieth and fortieth parallels. Herbert much regretted that Top
had not been able to catch one of these carnivora.

"Are they good to eat?" asked Pencroft, who only regarded the representatives of the fauna
in the island from one special point of view.

"No," replied Herbert; "but zoologists have not yet found out if the eye of these foxes is
diurnal or nocturnal, or whether it is correct to class them in the genus dog, properly so called."

Harding could not help smiling on hearing the lad's reflection, which showed a thoughtful mind.
As to the sailor, from the moment when he found that the foxes were not classed in the genus
eatable, they were nothing to him. However, when a poultry-yard was established at Granite
House, he observed that it would be best to take some precautions against a probable visit
from these four-legged plunderers, and no one disputed this.

After having turned the point, the settlers saw a long beach washed by the open sea. It was
then eight o'clock in the morning. The sky was very clear, as it often is after prolonged cold;
but warmed by their walk, neither Harding nor his companions felt the sharpness of the atmosphere
too severely. Besides there was no wind, which made it much more bearable. A brilliant sun,
but without any calorific action, was just issuing from the ocean. The sea was as tranquil
and blue as that of a Mediterranean gulf, when the sky is clear. Claw Cape, bent in the form
of a yataghan, tapered away nearly four miles to the southeast. To the left the edge of the
marsh was abruptly ended by a little point. Certainly, in this part of Union Bay, which nothing
sheltered from the open sea, not even a sandbank, ships beaten by the east winds would have
found no shelter. They perceived by the tranquillity of the sea, in which no shallows troubled
the waters, by its uniform color, which was stained by no yellow shades, by the absence of
even a reef, that the coast was steep and that the ocean there covered a deep abyss. Behind
in the west, but at a distance of four miles, rose the first trees of the forests of the Far
West. They might have believed themselves to be on the desolate coast of some island in the
Antarctic regions which the ice had invaded. The colonists halted at this place for breakfast.
A fire of brushwood and dried seaweed was lighted, and Neb prepared the breakfast of cold meat,
to which he added some cups of Oswego tea.

While eating they looked around them. This part of Lincoln Island was very sterile, and contrasted
with all the western part. The reporter was thus led to observe that if chance had thrown them
at first on the shore, they would have had but a deplorable idea of their future domain.

"I believe that we should not have been able to reach it," replied the engineer, "for the sea
is deep, and there is not a rock on which we could have taken refuge. Daisy laughed.

"She began early.

She was my mother's sister, but ever so much younger. She was an aunt when she was eight. My eldest
sister, you know----"

"Didn't know you had one."

"Very likely you wouldn't. She died some years ago, and before that she didn't live in England.
She was married to a Frenchman. But Aunt Jeannie-- isn't she an angel? And she came back from
Italy, where she has been for a whole year, only to-day.

It's the nicest thing that has happened since she went away."

"You mean that was nice?"

"Oh, don't be so silly! It is quite clear what I mean. You'll see her next week; she is coming down
to Bray."

"Wonder if she'll remember me?

The people I like most hardly ever do. Rather sad!

I say, Miss Daisy, I'm looking forward to that visit to Bray like anything. I don't know when
I've looked forward to anything so much.

Are you good at guessing? I wonder if you can guess why?"

The room where they sat had somewhat emptied of its tenants, since the next dance had just
begun, and something in his tone, some sudden tremble of his rather deep voice, some brightness
in those merry grey eyes, suddenly struck Daisy, and just for the moment it frightened her.
She put all her gaiety and lightness into her reply.

"Ah, but clearly," she said, "it is quite easy to guess.

It is because you will see Aunt Jeannie again. You have told me as
much."

"Not quite right," he said, "but pretty near.

Bother! Here's that woman coming to ask me to lunch again."

The good humour quite vanished from his face as Mrs. Streatham came rapidly towards them. She
had so much to think about with all her invitations that she very seldom remembered to smile.
And it was without a smile that she bore rapidly down upon them.

"Oh, Miss-- Miss Hanbury," she said, "do come to lunch on Thursday next at one-thirty-- or
is it two, Lord Lindfield? Yes, two. Lord Lindfield is coming, and
I hope one or two other friends."

"Why,
that is charming of you," said Daisy. "I shall be delighted."

"And do persuade Lady Nottingham to come, will you not?" continued
Mrs. Streatham.

"She is your aunt, is she not?"

Somehow the moment had passed, but Daisy, as she stood talking, felt that something new had come
to her. She had seen Tom Lindfield for a moment in a new light: for
that second she felt that she had never known him before.

He struck her differently, somehow, and it was that which momentarily had frightened her, and
caused her to make that light, nonsensical reply. But next moment she saw that it was not
he who had altered, it was herself.

All this was very faint and
undefined in her own mind. But it was there.

CHAPTER VI. Jeannie Halton, going up to her bedroom that night, felt
very keenly that ineffable sense of coming home which makes all the
hours spent in alien places seem dim and unreal.

She could
hardly believe that it was she who had been so long away from so
many friends, still less that it was she who, a year ago, tired and
weary, had gone southwards in search of that minimum of health and
peace which makes existence tolerable. Yet that time abroad could
never have become dim to her, since it was there, in the winter spent
in Rome, that her old friendship with Victor Braithwaite had ripened
into intimacy and burst into love. Rome would always be knit into her
life. It was not only in affairs of the mind and affections that her perception
was acute. Like most highly-organized people, her body, her fine material
senses, were vivid messengers to her soul; and as she went upstairs
she contrasted with a strong sense of content her purely physical
surroundings with those in which she had lived for the last forty-eight
hours.

For two days and nights she
had been hurried across Europe, over the jolt and rattle of the racing
wheels; by day the blurred landscape, wreathed in engine-smoke, had
streamed by her; by night she had seen nothing but the dull, stuffed
walls of her sleeping compartment, and it was an exquisite physical
pleasure to have the firm, unshaken floor underfoot, to be surrounded
by the appointments of a beautiful house, to be able to move of one's
own volition again, and not to be taken like a parcel in a van from one
end of Europe to the other. At least to me this explanation appears plausible."

"We are listening, captain," said Herbert.

"This is my idea: philosophers generally admit that some day our globe will end, or rather
that animal and vegetable life will no longer be possible, because of the intense cold to which
it will be subjected. What they are not agreed upon, is the cause of this cold. Some think
that it will arise from the falling of the temperature, which the sun will experience alter
millions of years; others, from the gradual extinction of the fires in the interior of our
globe, which have a greater influence on it than is generally supposed. I hold to this last
hypothesis, grounding it on the fact that the moon is really a cold star, which is no longer
habitable, although the sun continues to throw on its surface the same amount of heat. If,
then, the moon has become cold, it is because the interior fires to which, as do all the stars
of the stellar world, it owes its origin, are completely extinct. Lastly, whatever may be the
cause, our globe will become cold some day, but this cold will only operate gradually. What
will happen, then? The temperate zones, at a more or less distant period, will not be more
habitable than the polar regions now are. Then the population of men, as well as the animals,
will flow towards the latitudes which are more directly under the solar influence. An immense
emigration will take place. Europe, Central Asia, North America, will gradually be abandoned,
as well as Australasia and the lower parts of South America. The vegetation will follow the
human emigration. The flora will retreat towards the Equator at the same time as the fauna.
The central parts of South America and Africa will be the continents chiefly inhabited. The
Laplanders and the Samoides will find the climate of the polar regions on the shores of the
Mediterranean. Who can say, that at this period, the equatorial regions will not be too small,
to contain and nourish terrestrial humanity? Now, may not provident nature, so as to give refuge
to all the vegetable and animal emigration, be at present laying the foundation of a new continent
under the Equator, and may she not have entrusted these insects with the construction of it?
I have often thought of all these things, my friends, and I seriously believe that the aspect
of our globe will some day be completely changed; that by the raising of new continents the
sea will cover the old, and that, in future ages, a Columbus will go to discover the islands
of Chimborazo, of the Himalayas, or of Mont Blanc, remains of a submerged America, Asia, and
Europe. Then these new continents will become, in their turn, uninhabitable; heat will die
away, as does the heat from a body when the soul has left it; and life will disappear from
the globe, if not for ever, at least for a period. Perhaps then, our spheroid will rest--will
be left to death--to revive some day under superior conditions! But all that, my friends, is
the secret of the Author of all things; and beginning by the work of the insects, I have perhaps
let myself be carried too far, in investigating the secrets of the future.

"My dear Cyrus," replied Spilett, "these theories are prophecies to me, and they will be accomplished
some day."

"That is the secret of God," said the engineer.

"All that is well and good," then said Pencroft, who had listened with all his might, "but
will you tell me, captain, if Lincoln Island has been made by your insects?"

"No," replied Harding; "it is of a purely volcanic origin."

"Then it will disappear some day?"

"That is probable."

"I hope we won't be here then."

"No, don't be uneasy, Pencroft; we shall not be here then, as we have no wish to die here,
and hope to get away some time."

"In the meantime," replied Gideon Spilett, "let us establish ourselves here as if forever.
There is no use in doing things by halves."

This ended the conversation. Breakfast was finished, the exploration was continued, and the
settlers arrived at the border of the marshy region. It was a marsh of which the extent, to
the rounded coast which terminated the island at the southeast, was about twenty square miles.
The soil was formed of clayey flint-earth, mingled with vegetable matter, such as the remains
of rushes, reeds, grass, etc. Here and there beds of grass, thick as a carpet, covered it.
In many places icy pools sparkled in the sun. Neither rain nor any river, increased by a sudden
swelling, could supply these ponds. They therefore naturally concluded that the marsh was fed
by the infiltrations of the soil and it was really so. It was also to be feared that during
the heat miasmas would arise, which might produce fevers.

Above the aquatic plants, on the surface of the stagnant water, fluttered numbers of birds.
Wild duck, teal, snipe lived there in flocks, and those fearless birds allowed themselves to
be easily approached.

One shot from a gun would certainly have brought down some dozen of the birds, they were so
close together. The explorers were, however, obliged to content themselves with bows and arrows.
The result was less, but the silent arrow had the advantage of not frightening the birds, while
the noise of firearms would have dispersed them to all parts of the marsh. The hunters were
satisfied, for this time, with a dozen ducks, which had white bodies with a band of cinnamon,
a green head, wings black, white, and red, and flattened beak. Herbert called them tadorns.
Top helped in the capture of these birds, whose name was given to this marshy part of the island.
The settlers had here an abundant reserve of aquatic game. At some future time they meant to
explore it more carefully, and it was probable that some of the birds there might be domesticated,
or at least brought to the shores of the lake, so that they would be more within their reach. 

OCCASIONED BY THE SUDDEN LOSS OF A HOPEFUL YOUTH.

Transibunt cito, quae vos mansura putatis.

Those things soon will pass away Which ye think will always stay. Things subject to exterior sense Are
to mutation most propense. If stately houses we erect, And therein think to take delight,
On what a sudden are we checked, And all our hopes made groundless
quite! One little spark in ashes lays What we were building half our
days. Pencroft regretted
that Lincoln Island was not the home of a few families of bears rather than of so many foxes
and seals.

"Bears," said he, "are generally very well dressed, and I ask no more than to borrow for the
winter the warm cloaks which they have on their backs."

"But," replied Neb, laughing, "perhaps the bears would not consent to give you their cloaks,
Pencroft. These beasts are not St. Martins."

"We would make them do it, Neb, we would make them," replied Pencroft, in quite an authoritative
tone.

But these formidable carnivora did not exist in the island, or at any rate they had not yet
shown themselves.

In the meanwhile, Herbert, Pencroft, and the reporter occupied themselves with making traps
on Prospect Heights and at the border of the forest.

According to the sailor, any animal, whatever it was, would be a lawful prize, and the rodents
or carnivora which might get into the new snares would be well received at Granite House.

The traps were besides extremely simple; being pits dug in the ground, a platform of branches
and grass above, which concealed the opening, and at the bottom some bait, the scent of which
would attract animals. It must be mentioned also, that they had not been dug at random, but
at certain places where numerous footprints showed that quadrupeds frequented the ground. They
were visited every day, and at three different times, during the first days, specimens of those
Antarctic foxes which they had already seen on the right bank of the Mercy were found in them.

