But it is time to pass from the details of the Emperor's early youth, and observe him during
the two years he spent, with interruptions, at the university. From Cassel he went immediately
to Bonn, where, as during the years of military duty which followed, we only catch glimpses
of him as he lived the ordinary, and by no means austere, life of the university student and
soldier of the time; that is to say, the ordinary life with considerable modifications and
exceptions. He did not, like young Bismarck, drink huge flagons of beer at a sitting, day after
day. He was not followed everywhere by a boar-hound. He fought no student's duels--though a
secret performance of the kind is mentioned as a probability in the chronicles--or go about
looking for trouble generally as the swashbuckling Junker, Bismarck, did; for in the first
place his royal rank would not allow of his taking part in the bloody amusement of the Mensur,
and his natural disposition, if it was quick and lively, was not choleric enough to involve
him in serious quarrel. His studies were to some extent interrupted by military calls to Berlin,
for after being appointed second lieutenant in the First Regiment of Foot Guards at Potsdam
on his tenth birthday, the Hohenzollern age for entering the army, he was promoted to first
lieutenant in the same regiment on leaving Cassel.

For the most part the university lectures he attended were the courses in law and philosophy,
and he is not reported to have shown any particular enthusiasm for either subject. The differences
between an English and a German university are of a fundamental kind, perhaps the greatest
being that the German university does not aim at influencing conduct and character in the same
measure as the English, but is rather for the supply of knowledge of all sorts, as a monster
warehouse is for the supply of miscellaneous goods. Again, the German university, which, like
all American universities except Princetown, has more resemblance to the Scottish universities
than to those at Oxford, Cambridge, or Dublin, is not residential nor divided into colleges,
but is departmentalized into "faculties," each with its own professors and privat docentes,
or official lecturers, mostly young savants, who have not the rank or title of professor, but
have obtained only the venia legendi from the university. The lectures, as a rule of admirable
learning and thoroughness, invariably laying great and prosy stress on "development," are delivered
in large halls and may be subscribed for in as many faculties as the student chooses, the cost
being about thirty shillings or there-abouts per term for each lecture "heard." Outside the
university the student enjoys complete independence, which is a privilege highly (and sometimes
violently) cherished, especially by non-studious undergraduates, under the name "academic freedom."
The German preparing for one or other of the learned professions will probably spend a year
or two at each of three, or maybe four, universities, according to the special faculty he adopts
and for which the university has a reputation. There are plenty of hard-working students of
course; nowadays probably the great majority are of this kind; but to a large proportion also
the university period is still a pleasant, free, and easy halting-place between the severe
discipline and work of the school and the stern struggle of the working world.

The social life of the English university is paralleled in Germany by associations of students
in student "Corps," with theatrical uniforms for their Chargierte or officers, special caps,
sometimes of extraordinary shape, swords, leather gauntlets, Wellington boots, and other distinguishing
gaudy insignia. The Corps are more or less select, the most exclusive of all being the Corps
Borussia, which at every university only admits members of an upper class of society, though
on rare occasions receiving in its ranks an exceptionally aristocratic, popular, or wealthy
foreigner. To this Corps, the name of which is the old form of "Prussia," the Emperor belonged
when at Bonn, and in one or two of his speeches he has since spoken of the agreeable memories
he retains in connexion with it and the practices observed by it.

Common to all university associations in Germany--whether Corps, Landsmannschaft, Burschenschaft,
or Turnerschaft--is the practice of the Mensur, or student duel. It is not a duel in the sense
usually given to the word in England, for it lacks the feature of personal hostility, hate,
or injury, but is a particularly sanguinary form of the English "single-stick," in which swords
take the place of sticks. These swords (Schläger), called, curiously enough, rapiere, are long
and thin in the blade, and their weight is such that at every duel students are told off on
whose shoulders the combatants can rest their outstretched sword-arm in the pauses of the combat
caused by the duellists getting out of breath; consequently, an undersized student is usually
chosen for this considerate office. The heads and faces of the duellists are swathed in bandages--no
small incentive to perspiration, the vital parts of their bodies are well protected against
a fatal prick or blow, and the pricks or slashes must be delivered with the hand and wrist
raised head-high above the shoulder. It is considered disgraceful to move the head, to shrink
in the smallest degree before the adversary, or even to show feeling when the medical student
who acts as surgeon in an adjoining room staunches the flow of blood or sews up the scars caused
by the swords. The duel of a more serious kind--that with pistols or the French rapier, or
with the bare-pointed sabre and unprotected bodies--is punishable by law, and is growing rarer
each year.

Take a sabre duel--"heavy sabre duel" is the German name for it--arising out of a quarrel in
a cafe or beer-house, and in which one of the opponents may be a foreigner affiliated to some
Corps or Burschenschaft. Cards are exchanged, and the challenger chooses a second whom he sends
to the opponent. The latter, if he accepts the challenge, also appoints a second; the seconds
then meet and arrange for the holding of a court of honour. The court will probably consist
of old Corps students--lawyer, a doctor, and two or three other members of the Corps or Burschenschaft.
The court summons the opponents before it and hears their account of the quarrel; the seconds
produce evidence, for example the bills at the cafe or beer-hall, showing how much liquor has
been consumed; also as to age, marriage or otherwise, and so on. Then the court decides whether
there shall be a duel, or not, and if so, in what form it shall be fought.

The duel may be fixed to take place at any time within six months, and meanwhile the opponents
industriously practise. The scene of the duel is usually the back room of some beer-hall, with
locked doors between the duellists and the police. The latter know very well what is going
on, but shut their eyes to it. The opponents take their places at about a yard and a half distance
from advanced foot to advanced foot, and a chalk line is drawn between them. Close behind each
opponent is his second with outstretched sword, ready to knock up the duellists' weapons in
case of too dangerous an impetuosity in the onset. The umpire (Unparteiischer), unarmed, stands
a little distance from the duellists. The latter are naked to the waist, but wear a leather
apron like that of a drayman, covering the lower half of the chest, and another piece of leather,
like a stock, protecting their necks and jugular veins. The duel may last a couple of hours,
and any number of rounds up to as many as two hundred may be fought. The rounds consist of
three or four blows, and last about twenty seconds each, when the seconds, who have been watching
behind their men in the attitude of a wicket-keeper, with their sword-points on the ground,
jump in and knock up the duellists' weapons. When one duellist is disabled by skin wounds--there
are rarely any others--or by want of breath, palpitation or the like, the duel is over, and
the duellists shake hands. This description, with some slight modifications, applies to the
ordinary Corps Mensuren, which are simply a bloody species of gymnastic exercise.

On one occasion early in the reign the Emperor spoke of the Corps system with great enthusiasm,
and especially endorsed the practice of the Mensur. "I am quite convinced," he said at Bonn
in 1891, three years after his accession,

     "that every young man who enters a Corps receives through
     the spirit which rules in it, and supposing he imbibes the
     spirit, his true directive in life. For it is the best
     education for later life a young man can obtain. Whoever
     pokes fun at the German student Corps is ignorant of its
     true tendency, and I hope that so long as student Corps
     exist the spirit which is fostered in them, and which
     inspires strength and courage, will continue, and that for
     all time the student will joyfully wield the Schläger."

Regarding the Mensur, he went on:

     "Our Mensuren are frequently misunderstood by the public,
     but that must not let us be deceived. We who have been Corps
     students, as I myself was, know better. As in the Middle
     Ages through our gymnastic exercises (Turniere) the
     courage and strength of the man was steeled, so by means of
     the Corps spirit and Corps life is that measure of firmness
     acquired which is necessary in later life, and which will
     continue to exist as long as there are universities in
     Germany."

The word for firmness used by the Emperor was Festigkeit, which may also be translated determination,
steadiness, fortitude, or resoluteness of character. It may be that practice of the Mensur,
which is held almost weekly, has a lifelong influence on the German student's character. It
probably enables him to look the adversary in the eye--look "hard" at him, as the mariners
in Mr. A.W. Jacobs's delightful tales look at one another when some particularly ingenious
lie is being produced. In a way, moreover, it may be said to correspond to boxing in English
universities, schools, and gymnasia. But, on the whole, the Anglo-Saxon spectator finds it
difficult to understand how it can exercise any influence for good on the moral character of
a youth, or determine, as the Emperor says it does, a disposition which is cowardly or weak
by nature to bravery or strength, save of a momentary and merely physical kind. The Englishman
who has been present at a Mensur is rather inclined to think the atmosphere too much that of
a shambles, and the chief result of the practice the cultivation of braggadocio.

Besides, the practice is illegal, and though purposely overlooked, save in one German city,
that of Leipzig, where it is punished with some rigour, the Emperor, who is supposed to embody
the majesty and effectiveness of the law, is hardly the person to recommend it. His inconsistency
in the matter on one occasion placed him in an undignified position. Two officers of the army
quarrelled, and one, an infantry lieutenant, sent a challenge to the other, an army medical
man. The latter refused on conscientious grounds, whereupon he was called on by a military
court of honour to send in his resignation. The case was sent up to the Emperor, who upheld
the decision of the court of honour, adding the remark that if the surgeon had conscientious
scruples on the point he should not remain in the army. An irate Social Democratic editor thereupon
pointed out that such a decision came with a bad grace from a man with whom, or with any of
whose six sons, no one was allowed to fight. The Emperor is still a member of the Borussia
Corps, but chiefly shows his interest by keeping its anniversaries in mind, by every few years
attending one of its annual drinking festivals (Commers), and by paying a substantial yearly
subscription.

The German student Corps, historically, go back to the fourteenth century, when the first European
universities were established at Bologna, Paris, and Orleans. Universities then were not so
called from the universality of their teachings, but rather as meaning a corporation, confraternity,
or collegium, and were in reality social centres in the towns where they were instituted. The
most renowned was that of Paris, and here was founded the first student Corps. It was called
the "German Nation of Paris," a corporation of students, with statutes, oaths, special costumes,
and other distinctive features. At first, strange to say, it contained more Englishmen than
Germans. The "Nation" had a procurator, a treasurer, and a bedell, the last to look after the
legal affairs of the association. Drinking was not the supposed purpose of the society, but
the Corps mostly assembled, as German Corps do to-day, for drinking purposes.

The earliest form of German student associations Was the Landsmannschaft. To this society,
composed of elders and juniors, new-comers, called Pennales, were admitted after painful ceremonies
and became something like the "fags" at an English public school. The object of the original
Landsmannschaft was to keep alive the spirit of nationality. The object of the German Corps
is different. It is to beget and perpetuate friendship, and this accounts for the steady goodwill
the Emperor has always shown towards the comrades of his Bonn and Borussia days.

An ancient form of Corps entertainment is called the Hospiz, now, however, much modified. Upon
invitation the members of the Corps meet in a beer-hall or in the rooms of one of the Corps.
The president is seated with a house-key on the table before him as a symbol of unfettered
authority. As members arrive, the president takes away their sticks and swords and deposits
them in a closet. The guests sit down and are handed filled pipes and a lighted fidibus, or
pipe-lighter. Bread and butter and cheese, followed by coffee, are offered. After this, the
real work of the evening begins--the drinking. A large can of beer stands on a stool beside
the president. The latter calls for silence by rapping three times on the table with the house-key,
and the Hospiz is declared open. Thenceforward only the president pours out the beer, unless
he appoints a deputy during his absence. The president's great aim and honour is to make every
one, including himself, intoxicated. He begins by rapping the table with his glass and saying
"Significat ein Glas." In response all drain their glasses. Then comes a "health to all," and
this is followed by a "health to each." "The Ladies" follow, including toasts to the pretty
girls of the town, and ladies known to be favourites of those present. Married ladies or women
of bad reputation must not be toasted in the Hospiz.

A story is told of a toast the Emperor, in these his Lohengrin days, once proposed at a Borussia
meeting. "On the Kreuzberg" (a hill near Bonn), he said,

     "I saw a picture, the ideal of a German woman. She united in
     herself beauty of face and an imposing form, the roses in
     her cheeks spoke of the modesty peculiar to our maids, and
     her voice sounded harmoniously like the lute of the
     Minnesingers on the Wartburg. She told me her name--may it
     be blessed."

The toast found its way into the local papers and gave birth to a romantic legend connecting
the future Emperor with a pretty and modest girl of the town, but no true basis for it has
ever been discovered.

In toasting the Ladies in a Hospiz each of those present may name the lady of his choice, and
if two name the same lady they have a drinking bout to determine which is entitled to claim
her. The one who first admits that he can drink no more--usually signified by a hasty and zigzag
retreat from the room--is declared the loser. If a guest comes late to the Hospiz he must drink
fast so as to catch up with earlier arrivals, unless he has been drinking elsewhere, when he
is let off with drinking a "general health."

The close of the Emperor's student days was marked by an event which was to have a great influence
on his life and happiness. It was in 1879 that he made the acquaintance of the young lady who
was, a couple of years later, to become his wife, and subsequently Empress. When at Bonn Prince
William had developed a liking for wild-game shooting, and accepted an invitation from Duke
Frederick of Schleswig-Holstein to shoot pheasants at Primkenau Castle, the Duke's seat in
Silesia. More than one romantic story is current about the first meeting of the lovers, but
that most generally credited, as it was published at or near the time, represents the young
sportsman as meeting the lady accidentally in the garden of the castle. He had arrived at night
and gone shooting early next morning before being introduced to the family of his host, and
on his return surprised the fair-haired and blue-eyed Princess Auguste Victoria as she lay
dozing in a hammock in the garden. The student approached, the words "little Rosebud" on his
lips, but hastily withdrew as the Princess, all blushes, awoke. The pair met shortly afterwards
at breakfast, when the visitor learned who the "little rosebud" was whom he had surprised.
The Princess was then twenty-two, but looked much younger, a privilege from nature she still
possesses in middle age. The impression made on the student was deep and lasting, and the engagement
was announced on Valentine's Day, in February, 1880. The marriage was celebrated on February
27th of the following year at the royal palace in Berlin. Great popular rejoicing marked the
happy occasion, Berlin was gaily flagged to celebrate the formal entrance of the bride into
the capital, and most other German cities illuminated in her honour. The imperial bridegroom
came from Potsdam at the head of a military escort selected from his regiment and preceded
the bridal cortege, in which the ancient coronation carriage, with its smiling occupant, and
drawn by eight prancing steeds, was the principal feature. On the day following the marriage
the young couple went to Primkenau for the honeymoon.

The marriage with a princess of Schleswig-Holstein was not only an event of general interest
from the domestic and dynastic point of view. It had also political significance, for it meant
the happy close of the troubled period of Prussian dealings with those conquered territories.

A story throwing light on the young bride's character is current in connexion with her wedding.
One of the hymns contained a strophe--"Should misfortune come upon us," which her friends wanted
her to have omitted as striking too melancholy a note. "No," she said,

     "let it be sung. I don't expect my new position to be always
     a bed of roses. Prince William is of the same mind, and we
     have both determined to bear everything in common, and thus
     make what is unpleasant more endurable."

Since the marriage their domestic felicity, as all the world is aware, has never been troubled,
and the example thus given to their subjects is one of the surest foundations of their influence
and authority in Germany. The secret of this felicity, affection apart, is to be sought for
in the strong moral sense of the Emperor regarding what he owes to himself and his people,
but no less perhaps in the exemplary character of the Empress. As a girl at Primkenau she was
a sort of Lady Bountiful to the aged and sick on the estate, and led there the simple life
of the German country maiden of the time. It was not the day of electric light and central
heating and the telephone; hardly of lawn tennis, certainly not of golf and hockey; while motor-cars
and militant suffragettes were alike unknown. Instead of these delights the Princess, as she
then was, was content with the humdrum life of a German country mansion, with rare excursions
into the great world beyond the park gates, with her religious observances, her books, her
needlework, her plants and flowers, and her share in the management of the castle.

These domestic tastes she has preserved, and the saying, quoted in Germany whenever she is
the subject of conversation, that her character and tastes are summed up in the four words
Kaiser, Kinder, Kirche, and Küche--Emperor, children, church, and kitchen--is as true as it
is compendious and alliterative. It is often assumed, especially by men, that a woman who cultivates
these tastes cultivates no other. This is not as true as is often supposed of the Empress,
as a journal of her voyage to Jerusalem in 1898, published on her return to Germany, goes to
show. Following the traditions and example of the queens and empresses who have preceded her,
she has always given liberally of her time and care, as she still does, to the most multifarious
forms of charity. She has a great and intelligible pride in her clever and energetic husband,
while her interest in her children is proverbial. She appears to have no ambition to exercise
any influence on politics or to shine as a leader of society. Like the Emperor, she is not
without a sense of humour, and is always amused by the racy Irish stories (in dialect) told
her and a little circle of guests by Dr. Mahaffy, of Trinity College, Dublin, who is a welcome
guest at the palace.

The offspring of the marriage, it may be here noted, is a family of seven children--six sons
and a daughter--as follows:--

     Crown Prince Frederick William, born 1882
     Prince Eitel Frederick             " 1883
     Prince Adalbert                    " 1884
     Prince August William              " 1887
     Prince Oscar                       " 1888
     Prince Joachim                     " 1890
     Princess Victoria Louise           " 1892

The Crown Prince was born on June 6th at the Marble Palace in Potsdam. He was educated at first
privately by tutors, and later at the military academy at Plön, not far from Kiel. When eighteen
he became of age and began his active career as an officer in the army. He is now commander
of the First Regiment of Boay Guards ("Death's Head" Hussars) at Langfuhr, near Danzig, with
the rank of major. He was married in June, 1905, to Cecilie, Duchess of Mecklenburg-Schwerin,
and is the father of four children, all boys. The Crown Princess is one of the cleverest, most
popular, and most charming characters in Germany, of the brightest intelligence and the most
unaffected manners. The leading trait in the Crown Prince's character is his love of sport,
from big-game shooting (on which he has written a book) to lawn tennis. In May last he began
to learn golf. He is personally amiable, has pleasant manners, and is highly popular with all
classes of his future subjects. He is credited with ability, but is not believed to have inherited
the intellectual manysidedness of his father. The only part he can be said to have taken in
public life as yet is having called the imperial attention to the Maximilian Harden allegations
regarding Count Eulenburg and a court "camarilla," referred to later, and having, while sitting
in a gallery of the Reichstag, demonstrated by decidedly marked gestures his disagreement with
the Government's Morocco policy.

Since his marriage the Emperor has more than once publicly congratulated himself on his good
fortune in having such a consort as the Empress. The most graceful compliment he paid her was
in her own Province of Silesia in 1890, when he said:

     "The band which unites me with the Province--that of all the
     provinces of the Empire which is nearest to my heart--is the
     jewel which sparkles at my side, Her Majesty the Empress. A
     native of this country, a model of all the virtues of a
     German princess, it is her I have to thank that I am in a
     position joyfully to perform the onerous duties of my
     office."

Only the other day at Altona, after thirty years of married life, he referred to her, again
in her home Province and again as she sat smiling beside him, as the

     "first lady of the land, who is always ready to help the
     needy, to strengthen family ties, to discharge the duties of
     her sex, and suggest to it new aims. The Empress has
     bestowed a home life on the House of Hohenzollern such as
     Queen Louise, alone perhaps, conferred."

Queen Louise, the famous wife of Frederick William III, died in 1810 and is buried in the mausoleum
at Charlottenburg, the suburb of Berlin. She has remained ever since, for the German nation,
the type of womanly perfection.

III.

PRE-ACCESSION DAYS

1881-1887

The seven years between the date of his marriage and that of his accession were chiefly filled
in by the future Emperor with the conscientious discharge of his regimental duties and the
preparation of himself, by three or four hours' study daily at the various Ministries, among
them the Foreign Office, where he sat at the feet of Bismarck, for the imperial tasks he would
presumably have to undertake later.

Emperor William I, now a man of eighty-four, was still on the throne. Born in 1797, he lived
with his parents, Frederick William III and Queen Louise, in Koenigsberg and Memel for three
years after the battle of Jena, won the Iron Cross at the age of seventeen in the war with
Napoleon in 1814, took part in the entry of the Allies into Paris, and devoted himself thenceforward,
until he became King of Prussia in 1861, chiefly to the reorganization of the army. For a year
during the troubled times of 1848 he was forced to take refuge in England, from whence he returned
to live quietly at Coblenz until called to the Regency of Prussia in 1858. He was the Grand
Master of Prussian Freemasonry. The attempts on his life in Berlin in 1878 by the anarchists
Hödel and Nobiling are still spoken of by eye-witnesses to them. Both attempts were made within
a period of three weeks while the King was driving down Unter den Linden, and on both occasions
revolver shots were fired at him. Hödel's attempt failed, but in view of Socialist agitation,
the would-be assassin was beheaded (the practice still in Prussia) a few weeks later. Pellets
from Nobiling's weapon struck the King in the face and arm, and disabled him from work for
several weeks. The political events of the reign, including the Seven Weeks' War with Austria
in 1866, which ended at Sadowa, where King William was in chief command, and that with France
in 1870, when he was present as Commander-in-Chief at Gravelotte and Sedan, are frequently
referred to by Bismarck in his "Gedanke und Erinnerungen," and to these the reader may be referred.

The high and amiable character of the old Emperor, as he became after 1870, is common knowledge.
He was a thoroughgoing Hohenzollern in his views of monarchy and his relations to his folk,
but he was at the same time the type of German chivalry, the essence of good nature, the soul
of honour, and the slave of duty. He was extremely fond of his grandson, Prince William, and
it is clear from the latter's speeches subsequently that the affection was ardently reciprocated.

Of Emperor William, Bismarck writes in the highest terms, describing his "kingly courtesy,"
his freedom from vanity, his impartiality towards friend and foe alike; in a word, he says,
Emperor William was the idea "gentleman" incorporated. On the other hand, Bismarck tells how
the old Emperor all his life long stood in awe of his consort, the Empress Augusta, Bismarck's
great enemy and the clearing-house (Krystallisationspunkt), as he describes her, of all the
opposition against him; and how the Emperor used to speak of her as "the hot-head" ("Feuerkopf")--"a
capital name for her," Bismarck adds, "as she could not bear her authority as Queen to be overborne
by that of anyone else." The Iron Chancellor, by the way, mentions a curious fact in connexion
with the attempt on Emperor William's life by Nobiling. The Chancellor says he had noticed
that in the seventies the Emperor's powers had begun to fail, and that he often lost the thread
of a conversation, both in hearing and speaking. After the Nobiling attempt this disability,
strangely enough, completely disappeared. The fact was noticed by the Emperor himself, for
one day he said jestingly to Bismarck: "Nobiling knew better than the doctors what I really
needed--a good blood-letting."

Referring to the Empress Frederick at this period, Bismarck writes:

     "With her I could not reckon on the same good-will as I
     could with her husband (Emperor Frederick). Her natural and
     inborn sympathy for her native country showed itself from
     the very beginning in the endeavour to shift the weight of
     Prussian-German influence on the European grouping of the
     Powers into the scale of England, which she never ceased to
     regard as her Fatherland; and, in consciousness of the
     opposition of interests between the two great Asiatic
     Powers, England and Russia, to see Germany's power, in case
     of a breach, used for the benefit of England."

An incident may be mentioned here which took place at what was to turn out to be the Emperor
William's death-bed and refers particularly to our young Prince William. Bismarck was talking
to the sick Emperor a few days before the latter's death. The Chancellor spoke about the necessity
of publishing an Order, already drawn up in November of the preceding year, appointing Prince
William regent in case the necessity for such a measure should occur. The sick Emperor expressed
the hope that Bismarck would stand by his successor. Bismarck promised to do so and the Emperor
pressed his hand in token of satisfaction. Then, suddenly, Bismarck relates, the Emperor became
delirious and began to rave. Prince William was the central figure in his ravings. He evidently
thought his grandson was at his bedside and exclaimed, using the familiar Du; "Du you must
always keep on good terms with the Czar (Alexander III) ... there is no need to quarrel in
that quarter." Thereafter he was silent, and Bismarck left the sick-room.

The Prince's parents, Crown Prince Frederick and his English consort, had also their Court
at the Marmor Palais in Potsdam, and their palace in Berlin, but the life they led was comparatively
simple. The Crown Prince and Princess were great travellers and consequently often absent from
Germany; and when at home, while the Crown Prince, in his serious-minded fashion, was absorbed
in study, the Crown Princess divided her time between the practice of the arts and correspondence
with her now grown-up sons and daughters.

Still, it is clear from the signs of the time that there was a good deal of intrigue going
on throughout this pre-accession period, or, if intrigue is too strong a term for it, a good
deal of friction, social and political, in high circles. It was chiefly caused, if the old
Chancellor's statements to his sycophantic adorer, Busch, are to be credited, by the interference
of the Empress Augusta and her daughter-in-law, the Crown Princess, in the sphere of politics,
the Empress seeking to influence her husband in favour of the Catholics, whom she had taken
under her protection, and the Crown Princess trying, as we have seen, to influence German policy
in favour of England.

Exactly what part Prince William took in it all is not very clear. One thing we know, that
he greatly displeased Bismarck by his constant attendance at the Waldersee salon, then a social
centre in Berlin. Countess Waldersee, who is still living in Hannover, was the daughter of
an American banker named Lee. She married Frederick, Prince of Schleswig, but he died six months
after the wedding. His widow afterwards married Count Waldersee, who was subsequently to command
the international forces during the Boxer troubles in China. Bismarck detested Waldersee, perhaps
because many people spoke of him as his probable successor, and consequently looked with anything
but favour on his imperial pupil's visit to the Waldersees.

The great figure of the time, however, was neither the Emperor nor the Crown Prince nor Prince
William, but Prince Bismarck, who, as Chancellor for now more than a quarter of a century,
had throughout that period guided the destinies of Prussia and the German Empire. Emperor William
and Crown Prince Frederick and Prince William were playing, doubtless, more or less prominent
parts on the public stage, but all things of moment gravitated towards Bismarck, whose days
were spent, now persuading or convincing the Emperor, now warring with a Parliament growing
impatient of his dictatorial attitude, now countermining the intrigues and opposition of his
adversaries at Court and in the Ministries. He hardly ever went into society, but though he
spent his days growling in his den at the Foreign Office when he was not immersed in work,
he was the great popular figure of Berlin; indeed, it might be said, of all Germany.

As second lieutenant, Prince William had naturally a good deal to learn, though, entering life,
as we have seen, as a "fine young recruit," having had a "military governor" appointed to his
service when he was four, being made an officer at the age of ten, and having passed most of
his life hitherto in a military society and atmosphere, he had less perhaps to learn than the
ordinary young German officer. He went through the usual drills, and doubtless felt, as keenly
as does the young officer everywhere, their monotonous and seemingly unnecessary repetitions,
but they fulfilled the object in view and gave him the well-set-up bearing and martial tread
which still distinguish him. Living in the old Town Castle of Potsdam, in rooms that had once
been occupied by Frederick the Great, he entered with zest into the task of learning the mechanism
of his regiment and at the same time of the army generally, though it cannot have been as interesting
a task then as now, when science has added so many new branches to military organization. Both
he and his young wife were as hospitable as their not too generous means and occasional cheques
from the Emperor William would allow, particularly to any Borussian of the Prince's Bonn university
days who might be passing through Berlin or Potsdam. The young Prince and Princess took part,
as was to be expected of them, in the festivities and ceremonies of the Emperor's and Crown
Prince's Court, and, when they had nothing more interesting to do, might be seen strolling
arm in arm about the streets in Potsdam looking into the shops as young married people do in
every town, and being apparently, as the story-books say, as happy as the day is long.

On the whole, however, during these pre-accession years, only glimpses of Prince William's
character and doings are obtainable, but, though meagre, they are sufficient to suggest that
in his case, too, if we extend the saying to cover the entire period of youth, the child was
father to the man. The chief, almost the only, reliable authorities for the inner history of
the time are the memoirs and notes left by the two Chancellors, Prince Bismarck and Prince
Hohenlohe--en passant let the hope be expressed here that in the interests of Germany herself
another Chancellor, Prince Bernhard Ernst von Bülow, now living in retirement at Rome, will
enlighten the world as to that of the last ten or twelve stirring years, quorum pars magna
fuit. Both Bismarck and Hohenlohe were excellent judges of character, and have, described,
though with regrettable brevity, the character of Prince William about this time. Talking to
his confidant, Dr. Busch, in June, 1882, Bismarck says of the Prince:

     "He is quite different from the Emperor William, and wishes
     to take the government into his own hands; he is energetic
     and determined, not at all disposed to put up with
     parliamentary co-regents, a regular guardsman; Philopater
     and Antipater at Potsdam! He is not at all pleased at his
     father (Crown Prince Frederick) taking up with professors,
     with Mommsen, Virchow, Forckenbeck. Perhaps he may one day
     develop into the rocher de bronze of which we stand in
     need."

This rocher de bronze is an expression constantly employed by devoted royalists and imperialists
in Germany. It was first used by Frederick William IV, who, in the jargon which in his time
passed for the German language, exclaimed: "Ich werde meine Souvereinetat stabilizieren wie
ein rocher de bronze."

Again, about this time Bismarck says:

     "Up to that time (when Prince William was studying at the
     Ministries) he knew little, and indeed did not trouble
     himself much about it, but preferred to enjoy himself in the
     society of young officers and such-like,"

and he goes on to tell how the Prince took--or did not take--to this Ministerial education.
It was proposed that the Under Secretary of State, Herrfurth, who was reputed to be well informed,
particularly in statistics, should instruct him about internal questions. The Prince agreed
and invited Herrfurth to lunch, but afterwards told Bismarck he could not stand him, "with
his bristly beard, his dryness and tediousness." Could Bismarck suggest some one else? The
Chancellor mentioned Privy Councillor von Brandenstein. The Prince did not object, had the
Baron several times to meals, but paid so little attention to his explanations that Brandenstein
lost patience and begged for some other employment. Concerning a rendezvous, Bismarck writes:

     "He (Prince William) has more understanding, more courage
     and greater independence (than his grandfather), but in his
     leaning for me he goes too far. He was 'surprised' that I
     had waited for him, a thing his grandfather was incapable of
     saying;"

and the Chancellor adds:

     "It is only in trifles and matters of secondary importance
     that one occasionally has reason to find fault with him, as,
     for instance, in the form of his State declarations--but
     that is youthful vivacity which time will correct. Better
     too much than too little fire."

Busch relates, under date of April 6, 1888, Bismarck's birthday, how Prince William came to
offer his congratulations, and, having done so, invited himself to dinner. The meal over, he
made a speech toasting Bismarck, in which he said:

     "The Empire is like an army corps that has lost its
     commander-in-chief in the field, while the officer who is
     next to him in rank lies severely wounded. At this critical
     moment forty-six million loyal German hearts turn with
     solicitude and hope to the standard, and the standard-bearer
     in whom all their expectations are centred. The
     standard-bearer is our illustrious Prince, our great
     Chancellor. Let him lead us. We will follow him. Long may he
     live!"

Prince Hohenlohe's references to Prince William as Emperor are frequent and full, but he has
little to say about his character as Prince William beyond noting, when there was some talk
of the Prince directly succeeding Emperor William, that he was "too young." On an occasion
subsequently Prince Hohenlohe amusingly notes that the Emperor shook hands with him until his
fingers "nearly cracked." This is still a genial gesture of the Emperor's.

One document, however, is available to show the spirit of religious tolerance which then animated
our young Lutheran Prince, as it has animated him, it may be added, ever since. Pius IX had
been succeeded in the Papacy by the more liberal Leo XIII, and the Kulturkampf had come to
an end. Prince William, writing to an uncle, Cardinal Hohenlohe, says:--

     "That this unholy Kulturkampf is at an end is a thing which
     rejoices me beyond expression. Of late many eminent
     Catholics, among them Kopp (afterwards Cardinal) have
     frequently visited me and honoured me with a confidence at
     once complete and gratifying. I was often so happy as to be
     able to be the interpreter of their wishes (to the Emperor
     and Bismarck, presumably) and do them some service. So it
     has been granted to my youth to co-operate in this work of
     peace. This has given me great pleasure and happiness.

     "Give my regards to Galimberti and lay my respects at the
     feet of the Pope.

     "Thy devoted nephew,

     "WILLIAM OF PRUSSIA."

With his future subjects Prince William was brought into close relations only in a very limited
way. No one, save perhaps Bismarck, seems to have known or suspected his true character and
aims. This was natural enough, since it is not until a man comes to occupy some influential
or prominent position that the public begins to take an interest in him. His father would be
Emperor before him, and fate might have it that he himself would not live to come to the throne.
Royal highnesses are not uncommon in a country with such a feudal history and so many courts
as Germany. The young Prince, moreover, was never, to use a phrase of to-day, in the limelight.
He was never involved in a notorious scandal. He had not, as his eldest son, the present Crown
Prince, has, published a book. He was more or less absorbed in the army, the early grave of
so many dawning talents. And there was no newspaper press devoted to chronicling the doings
and sayings of the fashionable world of his time. His natural abilities would doubtless have
secured him reputation and success in any sphere of life, but, as he himself would probably
be the first to admit, much of his fame, and even much of his merit, is due to the splendid
opportunities afforded him by his birth and position.

At the same time it is obvious that if his people at this period had not much opportunity of
studying the young Prince, he had been studying them and their requirements as these latter
appeared to him. He had evidently thought much on Germany's conditions and prospects before
he came to the throne, and was Empire-building in imagination long before he became Emperor.
It is not hard to guess the drift of his meditations. The success of the Empire depended on
the success of Prussia, and the success of Prussia, ringed in by possibly hostile Powers, on
union under a Prussian King whom Germans should swear fealty to and regard as a Heaven-granted
leader. From the history of Prussia he drew the conclusion that force, physical force, well
organized and equipped, must be the basis of Germany's security. Physical force had made Brandenburg
into Prussia, and Prussia into the still nascent modern German Empire. He knew that France
was only waiting for the day to come when she would be powerful enough to recover her lost
provinces. Russia was friendly, but there was no certainty she would always be so. Austria
was an ally, but many people in Austria had not forgotten Sadowa, and in any case her military
and naval forces were far from being efficient. An irresistible army, and a national spirit
that would keep it so, were consequently Germany's first essentials.

Simultaneously a new fact of vital importance for Germany's prosperity presented itself for
consideration--the growth of world-policy in trade, the expansion of commerce through the development
caused by new conditions of transport and intercommunication in which other nations were already
engaged. The Prince saw his country's merchants beginning to spread over the earth, and believing
in the doctrine that trade follows the flag, he felt that the flag, with the power and protection
it affords, must be supplied. For this it appeared to him that a navy was as indispensable
as was an efficient army for Germany's internal security. All other great countries had fine
navies, while to Germany this complement of Empire was practically wanting. Accordingly he
now took up the study of naval science and naval construction.

There was an occasion, however, at this time when the young Prince attracted general attention,
if only for a few days. It was when as colonel of the Body Guard Hussars, he ordered his officers
to withdraw from a Berlin club in which hazard and high play had ruined some of the younger
and less wealthy members. The committee of the club used their influence to cause Emperor William
to make the new commander cancel his order. The Emperor sent for his grandson and requested
its withdrawal.

"Majesty," said the young commander, "permit me a question--am I still commander of the regiment?"

"Of course--"

"Well, then, will your Majesty allow me to maintain the order--or else accept my resignation?"

"Oh," said the Emperor, who was in reality pleased with the young disciplinarian, "there can
be no talk of such a thing. I could not find so good a commanding officer again in a hurry."

When the club committee's ambassadors came to the Emperor to learn the result of his intervention,
his answer was, "Very sorry, gentlemen; I did my best, but the colonel refuses."

The political situation as regards France was just now highly precarious. General Boulanger,
whom Gambetta once described as "one of the four best officers in France," had become Minister
of War in the de Freycinet Cabinet of 1886. Relying on a supposed superiority of the French
army, he prepared for a war of revenge against Germany and aimed, with the help of Deroulède
and Rochfort, at suppressing the parliamentary régime and establishing himself as dictator.
His plans were answered in Germany by the acceptance of Bismarck's Septennat proposals for
increasing the army and fixing its budget for seven years in advance. The war feeling in France
diminished, and though it revived for a time owing to the arrest of the French frontier police
commissary Schnaebele, it finally died out on that officer's release at the particular request
of the Czar to Emperor William. Boulanger's subsequent history only concerns France. He was
sent to a provincial command, but returned to Paris, where he was joyously received and elected
to Parliament by a large majority. He might, it is believed, a year or two later, on being
elected by the department of the Seine, with Paris at his back, have made a successful coup
d'état on the night of his triumphant election, but his courage at the last moment failed,
and on learning that he was about to be arrested he fled to Brussels, where he committed suicide
on the grave of his mistress.

The time, however, was approaching, the most interesting, and as the succession of events have
shown, the most momentous for the Empire since 1870, when Prince William's accession was obviously
at hand. During the year 1887 and the early part of 1888 the attention of the world was fixed,
first curiously, then anxiously, then sympathetically on the situation in Berlin. Emperor William
was an old man just turned ninety; he was fast breaking up and any week his death might be
announced. Hereditarily the Crown Prince Frederick, now fifty-six, should succeed, and a new
reign would open which might introduce political changes of moment to other countries as well
as Germany. The new reign was indeed to open, but only to prove one of the shortest in history.

In January, 1887, a Shadow fell on the House of Hohenzollern, the Shadow that must one day
fall on every living creature. It was noticed that the Crown Prince was hoarse, had caught
a cold, or something of the kind. A stay at Ems did him no good, Doctors Tobold and von Bergmann,
the leading specialists of the day, were consulted, a laryngoscopic examination followed, the
presence of cancer was strongly suspected, and an operation was advised. At this juncture,
at the suggestion, it is said, of Queen Victoria, it was decided to summon the specialist of
highest reputation in England, Sir Morell Mackenzie, who, having examined the patient, and
basing his opinion on a report of Professor Virchow's, declared that the growth was not malignant.
It was now May, and on Mackenzie's advice the patient visited England, where, accompanied by
Prince William, he was present at the celebration of Queen Victoria's Jubilee. Some months
after his return to the Continent were spent with his family in Tirol and Italy, until November
found him in San Remo, where a meeting of famous surgeons from Vienna, Berlin, and Frankfort-on-Main
finally diagnosed the existence of cancer, and Mackenzie coincided with the judgment.

The old Emperor died on March 9th. He had taken cold on March 3rd, and on the 7th a chronic
ailment of the kidneys from which he suffered became worse, he could not sleep, his strength
began to ebb, and it was clear the end was near. On the 6th, however, he was able to speak
for a few minutes with Prince William, with Bismarck, and with his only daughter, the Grand
Duchess of Baden, who had arrived post-haste the night before to be present at the death-bed.
The Grand Duchess, as the Emperor spoke, besought him not to tire himself by talking. "I have
no time to be tired," he murmured, in a flicker of the sense of duty which had been a lifelong
feature of his character, and a few hours later he passed quietly away. The funeral, headed
by Prince William and the Knights of the Black Eagle, took place on the 20th. The new Emperor
Frederick, who had hurried from San Remo on receiving news of the Emperor's condition, was
too ill to join it, but stood behind a closed window of his palace and saluted as the coffin
went by.

The incidents of the Emperor Frederick's ascent of the throne, the amnesty and liberal-minded
proclamations to his people, and in particular the heroic resignation with which he bore his
fate, are events of common knowledge. One of them was the so-called Battenberg affair. Queen
Victoria desired a marriage between Princess Victoria, the present Emperor's sister, then aged
twenty-two, and Prince Alexander of Battenberg, at that time Prince of Bulgaria, so as to secure
him against Russia by an alliance with the imperial house of Germany. Prince Bismarck objected
on the ground that the marriage would show Germany in an unfriendly light at St. Petersburg,
and might subject a Prussian princess to the risk of expulsion from Sofia. Another account
is that the Chancellor feared an increase of English influence at the German Court with the
Prince of Bulgaria as its channel. In any case, the result of the Chancellor's opposition was
to place the sick Emperor in a delicate and painful situation. It was ended by his yielding
to the Chancellor's representations, and the marriage did not come off.

Meanwhile, the Emperor's malady was making fatal progress. The Shadow was growing darker and
more formidable. A season of patiently-borne suffering followed, until Death in his terrific
majesty appeared and another Emperor occupied the throne.

IV.

"VON GOTTES GNADEN"

Prince William is now German Emperor and King of Prussia. Before observing him as trustee and
manager of his magnificent inheritance a pause may be made to investigate the true meaning
of a much-discussed phrase which, while suggesting nothing to the Englishman though he will
find it stamped in the words "Dei gratia" on every shilling piece that passes through his hands,
is the bed-rock and foundation of the Emperor's system of rule and the key to his nature and
conduct.

Government in Germany is dynastic, not, as in England and America, parliamentary or democratic.
The King of Prussia possesses his crown--such is the theory of the people as well as of the
dynasty--by the grace of God, not by the consent of the people. The same may be said of the
German Emperor, who fills his office as King of Prussia. To the Anglo-Saxon foreigner the dynasty
in Germany, and particularly in Prussia, appears a sort of fetish, the worship of which begins
in the public schools with lessons on the heroic deeds of the Hohenzollerns, and with the Emperor,
as high priest, constantly calling on his people to worship with him. This view of the kingly
succession may seem Oriental, but it is not surprising when one reflects that the Hohenzollern
dynasty is over a thousand years old and during that time has ruled successively in part of
Southern Germany, in Brandenburg, in Prussia, until at last, imperially, in all Germany. Moreover,
it has ruled wisely on the whole; in the course of centuries it has brought a poor and disunited
people, living on a soil to a great extent barren and sandy, to a pitch of power and prosperity
which is exciting the envy and apprehension of other nations.

In England government passed centuries ago from the dynasty to the people, and there are people
in England to-day who could not name the dynasty that occupies the English throne. Such ignorance
in Germany is hardly conceivable. In Prussia government has always been the appanage of the
Hohenzollerns, and the Emperor is resolved that, supported by the army, it shall continue to
be their appanage in the Empire. Government means guidance, and no one is more conscious of
the fact than the Emperor, for he is trying to guide his people all the time. Frederick William
IV once said to the Diet: "You are here to represent rights, the rights of your class and,
at the same time, the rights of the throne: to represent opinion is not your task." This relation
of government and people has become modified of recent years to a very obvious degree, but
constitutionally not a step has been taken in the direction of popular, that is to say parliamentary,
rule.

England and Germany are both constitutional monarchies, but both the monarch and the Constitution
in Germany are different from the monarch and the Constitution in England. The British Constitution
is a growth of centuries, not, like the German Constitution, the creation of a day. The British
Constitution is unwritten, if it is stamped, as Mary said the word "Calais" would be found
stamped on her heart after death, on the heart and brain of every Englishman. The German Constitution
is a written document in seventy-eight chapters, not fifty years old, and on which, compared
with the British Constitution, the ink is not yet dry. In England to the people the Constitution
is the real monarch: in Germany the monarchy is to the people what the British Constitution
is to the Englishman; and while in England the monarch is the first counsellor to the Constitution,
in Germany the Constitution is the first counsellor to the monarch.

The consequence in England is representative government, with a political career for every
ordinary citizen; the consequence in Germany is constitutional monarchy, properly so-called,
with a political career for no common citizen. Neither system is perfect, but both, apparently,
give admirable national results. And yet, of course, an Englishman cannot help thinking that
if Herr Bebel were made Minister to-morrow, Social Democracy would cease to exist.

The people acquiesce in the Hohenzollern view, not indeed with perfect and entire unanimity,
for the small Progressive party demand a parliamentary form of government, if not on the exact
model of that established in England. The Social Democrats, evidently, would have no government
at all. Many English people suppose that Germans generally must desire parliamentary rule and
would help them to get it, for multitudes of English people are firmly persuaded that it is
England's mission to extend to other peoples the institutions which have suited her so well,
without sufficiently considering how different are their circumstances, geographical position,
history, traditions, and national character. A very similar mistake is made in Germany by multitudes
of Germans, who believe it is Germany's mission to impose her culture, her views of man and
life, on the rest of the world.

The Prussian view of monarchy, expressed in the words "von Gottes Gnaden" ("By the Grace of
God"), is a political conception, which, under its customary English translation, "by Divine
Right," has often been ridiculed by English writers. Lord Macaulay, it will be remembered,
in his "History of England," asserts that the doctrine first emerged into notice when James
the Sixth of Scotland ascended the English throne.

The statement exactly expresses the ideas on the subject attributed abroad to the Emperor.

The distinguished German historian, Heinrich von Treitschke, writes of King Frederick William
IV, the predecessor of Emperor William I, as follows:--

     "He believed in a mysterious enlightenment which is granted
     'von Gottes Gnaden' to kings rather than other mortals. All
     the blessings of peace, which his People could expect under
     a Christian monarch, should Proceed from the wisdom of the
     Crown alone; he regarded his high office like a patriarch of
     the Old Testament and held the kingship as a fatherly power
     established by God Himself for the education of the people.
     Whatever happened in the State he connected with the person
     of the monarch. If only his age and its royal awakener had
     understood each other better! He had, however, in his
     strangely complicated process of development, constructed
     such extraordinary ideals that though he might sometimes
     agree in words with his contemporaries he never did as to
     the things, and spoke a different language from his people.
     Even General Gerlach, his good friend and servant, used to
     say: 'The ways of the King are wonderful;' and the not less
     loyal Bunsen wrote about a complaint of the monarch that 'no
     one understands me, no one agrees with me,' the
     commentary--'When one understood him, how could one agree
     with him?'"

It was this king, be it parenthetically remarked, who said, when his people were clamouring
for a Constitution, in 1847: "Now and never will I admit that a written paper, like a second
Providence, force itself between our God in Heaven and this land"--and a few months later had
to sign the document his people demanded.

Von Treitschke, writing on the last birthday of Emperor William I, thus spoke of the doctrine:

     "A generation ago an attempt was made by a theologizing
     State theory to inculcate the doctrine of a power of the
     throne, divine, released from all earthly obligations. This
     mystery of the Jacobins never found entrance into the clear
     common sense of our people."

Prince Bismarck's view of the doctrine was explained in a speech he made to the Prussian Diet
in 1847. He was speaking on "Prussia as a Christian State." "For me," he said,

     "the words 'von Gottes Gnaden,' which Christian rulers join
     to their names, are no empty phrase, but I see in them the
     recognition that the princes desire to wield the sceptre
     which God has assigned them according to the will of God on
     earth. As God's will I can, however, only recognize what is
     revealed in the Christian gospels, and I believe I am in my
     right when I call that State a Christian one which has taken
     as its task the realization, the putting into operation, of
     the Christian doctrine.... Assuming generally that the State
     has a religious foundation, in my opinion this foundation
     can only be Christianity. Take away this religious
     foundation from the State and we retain nothing of the State
     but a chance aggregation of rights, a kind of bulwark
     against the war of all against all, which the old
     philosophers spoke of."

On the second occasion, thirty years later, the Chancellor's theme was "Obedience to God and
the King."

"I refer," he said,

     "to the wrong interpretation of a sentence which in itself
     is right--namely, that one must obey God rather than man.
     The previous speaker must know me long enough to be aware
     that I subscribe to the entire correctness of this sentence,
     and that I believe I obey God when I serve the King under
     the device 'With God for King and Country.' Now he (the
     previous speaker) has separated the component parts of the
     device, for he sees God separated from King and Fatherland.
     I cannot follow him on this road. I believe I serve my God
     when I serve my King in the protection of the commonwealth
     whose monarch 'von Gottes Gnaden' he is, and on whom the
     emancipation from alien spiritual influence and the
     independence of his people from Romish pressure have been
     laid by God as a duty in which I serve the King. The
     previous speaker would certainly admit in private that we do
     not believe in the divinity of a State idol, though he seems
     to assert here that we believe in it."

In these passages, it may be remarked, Bismarck avoids an unconditional endorsement of the
Hohenzollern doctrine of divine "right" or even divine appointment. Indeed all he does is to
express his belief in the sincerity of rulers who declare their desire to rule in accordance
with the will of God as it appears in Holy Scripture. In addition to his dislike of a "Christianity
above the State," the fact that he did not subscribe to the doctrine of divine right, as these
words are interpreted in England, is shown by another speech in which he said, "The essence
of the constitutional monarchy under which we live is the co-operation of the monarchical will
and the convictions of the people." But what, one is tempted to ask, if will and convictions
differ?

In recent times, Dr. Paul Liman, in an excellent character sketch of the Emperor, devotes his
first chapter to the subject, thus recognizing the important place it occupies in the Emperor's
mentality. Dr. Liman, like all German writers who have dealt with the topic, animadverts on
the Hohenzollern obsession by the theory and attributes it chiefly to the romantic side of
the Emperor's nature which was strongly influenced in youth by the "wonderful events" of 1870,
by the national outburst of thanks to God at the time, and by the return from victorious war
of his father, his grandfather, and other heroes, as they must have appeared to him, like Bismarck,
Moltke, and Roon.

It is worth noting that Prince von Bülow, during the ten years of his Chancellorship, made
no parliamentary or other specific and public allusion to the doctrine.

Before, however, attempting to offer a somewhat different explanation of the Emperor's attitude
in the matter from those just cited, let us see what statements he has himself made publicly
about it and how the doctrine has been interpreted by his contemporaries. He made no reference
to it in his declarations to the army, the navy, and the people when he ascended the throne.
His first allusion to it was in March, 1890, at the annual meeting of the Brandenburg provincial
Diet at the Kaiserhof Hotel in Berlin, and then the allusion was not explicit. "I see," said
the Emperor,

     "in the folk and land which have descended to me a talent
     entrusted to me by God, which it is my task to increase, and
     I intend with all my power so to administer this talent that
     I hope to be able to add much to it. Those who are willing
     to help me I heartily welcome whoever they may be: those who
     oppose me in this task I will crush."

His next allusion, at Bremen in April of the same year, when he was laying the foundation-stone
of a statue to his grandfather, King William, a few months subsequent to Bismarck's retirement,
was more explicit, yet not completely so.

The next reference, and the only one in which a divine "right" to rule in Prussia is formally
claimed, occurs four years later at Koenigsberg, the ancient crowning-place of Prussian kings.
Here he said:--

     "The successor (namely himself) of him who of his own
     right was sovereign prince in Prussia will follow the same
     path as his great ancestor; as formerly the first King (of
     Prussia, Frederick I.) said, 'My crown is born with me,' and
     as his greater son (the Great Elector) gave his authority
     the stability of a rock of bronze, so I too, like my
     imperial grandfather, represent the kingship 'von Gottes
     Gnaden.'"

At Coblenz in 1897, in reference to the first Emperor William's labours for the army and people:--

     "He (Emperor William) left Coblenz to ascend the throne as
     the selected instrument of the Lord he always regarded
     himself to be. For us all, and above all for us princes, he
     raised once more aloft and lent lustrous beams to a jewel
     which we should hold high and holy--that is the kingship von
     Gottes Gnaden, the kingship with its onerous duties, its
     never-ending, ever-continuing trouble and labour, with its
     fearful responsibility to the Creator alone, from which no
     human being, no minister, no parliament, no people can
     release the prince."

Here, too, if the words "responsibility to the Creator alone" be taken in their ordinary English
sense, the allusion to a divine right may be construed, though it is observable that the word
"right" is not actually employed.

In Berlin, when unveiling a monument to the Great Elector, the Emperor was filled with the
same idea of the God-given mission of the Hohenzollerns. After briefly sketching the deeds
of the Elector--how he came young to the throne to find crops down-trodden, villages burnt
to the ground, a starved and fallen people, persecuted on every side, his country the arena
for barbarous robber-bands who had spread war and devastation throughout Germany for thirty
years; how, with "invincible reliance on God" and an iron will, he swept the pieces of the
land together, raised trade and commerce, agriculture and industry, in for that period an incredibly
short time; how he brought into existence a new army entirely devoted to him; how, in fine,
guided by the hope of founding a great northern Empire, which would bring the German peoples
together, he became an authority in Europe and laid the corner-stone of the present Empire--after
sketching all this, the Emperor continues:

     "How is this wonderful success of the house of Hohenzollern
     to be explained? Solely in this way, that every prince of
     the House is conscious from the beginning that he is only an
     earthly vicegerent, who must give an account of his labour
     to a higher King and Master, and show that he has been a
     faithful executor of the high commands laid upon him."

One finds exactly the same idea expressed three months later when talking to his "Men of Brandenburg."
"You know well," he reminded them,

     "that I regard my whole position and my task as laid on me
     by Heaven, and that I am appointed by a Higher Power to whom
     I must later render an account. Accordingly I can assure you
     that not a morning or evening passes without a prayer for my
     people and a special thought for my Mark Brandenburg."

To the Anglo-Saxon understanding, of course, the theory of divine right has long appeared untenable,
obsolete, and, as Macaulay says, absurd. Many people to-day would go farther and argue that
there is no such thing as a divine right at all, since "rights" are a purely human idea, possibly
a purely legal one. But it is at least doubtful that the Emperor uses the expression "von Gottes
Gnaden" in a sense exactly coterminous with that of "divine right" as used by Lord Macaulay
and later Anglo-Saxon writers and speakers. The latter, when dealing with things German, not
unfrequently fall into the error of mistranslation and are thus at times responsible for national
misunderstandings. The Italian saying, "traduttore, tradittore," is the expression of a fact
too seldom recognized, especially by those whose business it is to interpret, so to speak,
one people to another. Language is as mysterious and elusive a thing as aught connected with
humanity, as love, for example, or music; and it may be asserted with some degree of confidence
that among every people there are ideas current, and in all departments--in law, society, art--which
it is impossible exactly to translate into the speech of other nations. The words used may
be the same, but the connotation, all the words imply and suggest, is, perhaps in very important
respects, different, and requires a paraphrase, longer or shorter, to explain them. Take the
word "false" in English and "falsch" in German. They look alike, yet while the English "false"
carries with it a moral reproach, the German word, where the context does not explicitly prove
otherwise, means simply "incorrect," "erroneous," without the moral reproach added. Accordingly,
when a German Chancellor asserts that the statement of an English Minister is "falsch" he does
not necessarily mean anything offensive, but only that the English Minister is mistaken.

From this point of view one may regard the statements of the Emperor concerning his kingly
office. He has recently begun to use the expression "German Emperor von Gottes Gnaden," a thing
done by none of his imperial predecessors, and certainly a very curious extension of a doctrine
which traditionally only applies to wearers of the crown of Prussia. But if he does, it may,
it is here suggested, be considered further evidence that he employs the terms "von Gottes
Gnaden" in a sense other than that of "divine right" as conceived by the Anglo-Saxon. The German
"Gnade" means "favour," "grace," "mercy," "pity," or "blessing," and is at times used in direct
contrast with the word "Recht," which means "justice" as well as "right." The point, indeed,
need hardly be elaborated, and the Emperor's own explanation of the revelation of God to mankind,
with its special reference to his grandfather which we shall find later in the confession of
faith to Admiral Hollmann, is highly significant of the sense in which he regards himself and
every ruling Hohenzollern as selected for the duties of Prussian kingship. It is the work of
the kingship he is divinely appointed to do of which he is always thinking, not the legal right
to the kingship vis à vis his people he is mistakenly supposed to claim. He regards himself
as a trustee, not as the owner of the property. And is not such a spirit a proper and praiseworthy
one? In a sense we Christians, if in a position of responsibility, believe that we are all
divinely appointed to the work each of us has to do: instruments of God, who shapes our ends,
rough-hew them how we may. The Emperor finely says of the Almighty: "He breathed into man His
breath, that is a portion of Himself, a soul." Reason is what chiefly distinguishes man from
the brute, though there are those who hold that reason is but a higher form of brutish instinct,
which again has its degree among the brutes; but, assuming that reason is of divine origin,
enabling us to receive, by one means or another, the dictates of the Almighty, it seems clear
that there must be channels through which these dictates become known to us.

This conveyance, this making plain is, as many people, and the Emperor among them, believe,
performed by God through the agency of those whom mankind agree to call "great." For the last
nineteen centuries a large part of civilized mankind is at one in the belief that Christ was
such an agency, while millions again agree to call the agency Buddha, Mahomet, Confucius, or
Zoroaster. In the creed of Islam Christ, as a prophet, comes fifth from Adam. In America there
are thousands who believe, or did believe, in the agency of a Mrs. Eddy or a Dr. Dowie. And
if this is so in matters of religion, itself only a form of the reasoning soul, why should
it not be the same in morals or philosophy, art or science, government or administration: why
should we not all accept, as many still do, the sayings and writings of the Hebrew prophets
(as does the Emperor), of Plato and Aristotle, of Bacon and Hobbes, of Milton and Shakespeare
and Goethe, of Kepler and Galileo, or Charlemagne and Napoleon, as divinely intended to convey
and make plain to us the dictates of Heaven until such time as yet greater souls shall instruct
us afresh and still more fully?

It may be that the Emperor thinks in some such way; his speeches and edicts at least suggest
it. Certainly, as already mentioned, he did on one occasion, when speaking of his kingship,
employ the word "right" as descriptive of the nature of his appointment by God. But that was
early in his reign, and at no time since has he insisted on a Heaven-granted right to rule.
It was, no doubt, different with some of his absolute predecessors, but it was not the view
of Frederick the Great, who declared himself "the first servant of the State." Moreover, it
is hardly conceivable that the Emperor, who is acquainted with the facts of history and is
a man of practical common sense besides, does not know that the doctrine of "divine right"
has long been rejected by people of intelligence in every civilized country, including his own.

If he really believes in divine right in the Stuart sense he must think that the conditions
of Germany are so different from those of the rest of civilized mankind, and his own people
so little advanced in knowledge and political science, that a doctrine absurd and dangerous
to the peace of enlightened commonwealths is applicable as a basis of rule in his own. It seems
a more plausible view, that the Emperor considers the expression "von Gottes Gnaden" an academic
formula of government, or what is still more likely, as a moral and religious, not a legal,
dogma, which yet expresses one of the leading and most admirable features of his policy as
a ruler. If it is not so, he is inconsistent with himself, since he has repeatedly declared
himself bound by the Constitution in accordance with which his grandfather and father and he
himself have hitherto ruled. At present the doctrine of divine "right" is regarded by Germans
no less than by Englishmen as dead and buried, and mention of it in Germany is usually greeted
with a smile. Even the notion of appointment by divine "grace," while considered a harmless
and praiseworthy article of faith with the Emperor, is no longer regarded as a living principle
of government.

V.

THE ACCESSION

1888-1890

With his accession began for the Emperor a period of extraordinary activity which has continued
practically undiminished to the present day. During that time he has been the most prominent
man and monarch of his generation. From the domestic point of view his life perhaps has not
been marked by many notable events, but from the point of view of politics and international
relations it has been the history of his reign and to no small extent the history of the world.

When a German Emperor ascends the throne there is no great outburst of national rejoicing,
no great series of popular ceremonials. There is no brilliant procession as in England, no
impressive coronation like that of an English monarch in Westminster Abbey, no State visit
of the monarch to the Houses of Parliament. In Germany Parliament goes to the King, not the
King to Parliament.

On the same day that the Emperor began his reign he addressed proclamations to the army and
navy. The addresses to the people and the Parliament were to come a few days later. In the
proclamation to the army he said:

     "I and the army were born for each other. Let us remain
     indissolubly so connected, come peace or storm, as God may
     will. You will now take the oath of fidelity and obedience
     to me, and I swear always to remember that the eyes of my
     ancestors are bent on me from the other world, and that one
     day I shall have to give an account touching the fame and
     the honour of the army."

His address to the navy was in the same vein.

     "We have only just put off mourning for my unforgettable
     grandfather, Kaiser William I, and already we have had to
     lower the flag for my beloved father, who took such an
     interest in the growth and progress of the navy. A time of
     earnest and sincere sorrow, however, strengthens the mind
     and heart of man, and so let us, keeping at heart the
     example of my grandfather and father, look with confidence
     to the future. I have learned to appreciate the high sense
     of honour and of duty which lives in the navy, and know that
     every man is ready faithfully to stake his life for the
     honour of the German flag, be it where it may. Accordingly I
     can, in this serious hour, feel fully assured that we shall
     stand strongly and steadily together in good or bad days, in
     storm or sunshine, always mindful of the Fatherland and
     always ready to shed our heart's blood for the honour of the
     flag."

To his people he promised that he would be a

     "just and mild prince, observant of piety and religion, a
     protector of peace, a promoter of the country's prosperity,
     a helper to the poor and needy, a faithful guardian of the
     right."

To the Parliament a week later he announced that he meant to walk in the footsteps of his grandfather,
particularly in regard to the working classes, to acquire the confidence of the federated princes,
the affection of the people, and the friendly recognition of foreign countries. He said that
in his opinion the

     "most important duties of the German Emperor lay in the
     domain of the military and political security of the nation
     externally, and internally in the supervision of the
     carrying out of imperial laws."

The highest of these laws, he explained, was the Imperial Constitution and "to preserve and
protect the Constitution, and in especial the rights it gives to the legislative bodies, to
every German, but also to the Emperor and the federated states," he considered "among the most
honourable duties of the Emperor."

While the order of these addresses is different to what it would be in England, it entirely
accords with the spirit of the Prussian monarchy and the political system of the German people.
Settled in the heart of Europe, the nation rests on the army, and it is hardly too much to
say that, from the Emperor's point of view, possibly also from the popular German point of
view, the interests of the army must be considered before the interests of the rest of the
population. An English monarch, who issued his first address to the British navy, would be
as justified in doing so by the real necessities of Great Britain as a German Emperor who first
addresses the German army is justified by the real necessities of Germany; for the British
navy is as vital to the British as the German army is to the German nation. In England, however,
the monarch's respect for the people and Parliament takes precedence of his respect for the
army, not vice versa as in Germany.

In a speech from the throne to the Prussian Diet the Emperor took the Constitutional Oath:
"I swear to hold firmly and unbrokenly to the Constitution of the Kingdom and to rule in agreement
with it and the laws ... so help me God!" and went on to proclaim the continuance in Prussia
and the Empire of his grandfather's and father's policy and work. He said at the same time,
while undertaking not to make the People uneasy by trying to extend Crown rights, that he would
take care that the constitutional rights of the Crown were respected and used, and that he
meant to hand them over unimpaired to his successor. He concluded by saying that he would always
bear in mind the words of Frederick the Great, who described himself as the "first servant
of the State."

At Frankfurt-on-the-Oder, a few months later, he declared, when unveiling a monument to his
uncle, Prince Frederick Karl, a hero of the Franco-Prussian War, that he meant never to surrender
a stone of the acquisitions made in the war and

     "believed he voiced the feeling of the entire army in saying
     that Germany, rather than do so, would suffer its eighteen
     army corps and its whole population of 42 millions to perish
     on the field of battle."

At this period of his career the Emperor was, first and foremost, a thoroughgoing Hohenzollern.
Doubtless he is so still, if he talks less about the dynasty. He admired Frederick the Great,
then as now, and in the first place as military commander, but the ancestor with whom he even
more sympathized, and sympathizes, was the Great Elector. "The ancestor," he said himself,

     "for whom I have the most liking (Schwärmen, a hardly
     translatable German verb, is the word he used) and who
     always shone before me as an example in my youth, was the
     Great Elector, the man who loved his country with all his
     heart and strength, and unrestingly devoted himself to
     rescuing the Mark Brandenburg out of its deep distress and
     made it a strong and united whole."

What particularly attracted the Emperor in the history of the Elector was the fact that he
was the first Hohenzollern who saw the importance of promoting trade and industry, building
a navy, and acquiring colonies. As yet, however, the Emperor had only clear and fairly definite
ideas about the need for a navy. The world-policy may have been in embryo in his mind, but
it was not born.

The imaginative side of the Emperor's character at this period is well illustrated in a speech
he made in 1890 to his favourite "Men of the Mark." He was talking of his travels, to which
allusion had been made by a previous speaker.

"My travels," said the Emperor,

     "have not only had the object of making myself acquainted
     with foreign countries and institutions, or to create
     friendly relations with neighbouring monarchs, but these
     journeys, which have been the subject of much
     misunderstanding, had for me the great value that, withdrawn
     from the heat of party faction, I could review our domestic
     conditions from a distance and submit them to calm
     consideration. Any one who, standing on a ship's bridge far
     out at sea, with only God's starry heaven above him,
     communes with himself, will not fail to appreciate the worth
     of such a journey. For many of my fellow-countrymen I would
     wish that they might live through such an hour, in which one
     can make up an account as to what he has attempted and what
     achieved. Then would he be cured of exaggerated
     self-estimation, and that we all need."

Having discharged the duty of addressing his own subjects, the Emperor's next care, after a
stay at Kiel where a German Emperor and King now for the first time in history appeared in
the uniform of an admiral, was personally to announce his accession at the courts of his fellow-European
sovereigns. We find him, accordingly, paying visits to Alexander II in St. Petersburg, to King
Oscar II in Stockholm (where he received a telegram announcing the birth of his fifth son),
to Christian IX in Copenhagen, to Kaiser Franz Joseph in Vienna and to King Humbert in Rome.
To both the last-mentioned he presented himself in the additional capacity of Triplice ally.

In August of the year following his accession he paid his first visit as Emperor to England.
It was a very different thing, one may imagine, from the earliest recorded visit of a German
Emperor to the English Court. That was in 1416, when the Emperor Sigismund (1411-1437) arrived
there and was received by Henry V. Henry postponed the opening of Parliament specially on his
account, made him a Knight of the Garter, and signed with him at Canterbury an offensive and
defensive alliance against France. How poor the German Empire and the German Emperor were at
that epoch may be judged from the fact that on his way home Sigismund had to pawn the costly
gifts he had received in England.

On the present occasion a grand naval review of over a hundred warships, with crews totalling
25,000 men, was held in honour of the Emperor at Osborne. This was followed, a few days afterwards,
by a parade of the troops at Aldershot under the command of General Sir Evelyn Wood. On this
occasion, after expressing his admiration for the British troops, the Emperor concluded: "At
Malplaquet and Waterloo, Prussian and British blood flowed in the prosecution of a common enterprise."
In a little speech after the review the Emperor spoke of the English navy as "the finest in
the world." The impression made by the Emperor on Sir Evelyn has been recorded by that general.
"The Emperor is extremely wide-awake," he writes to a friend, "with a decided, straightforward
manner. He is a good rider. His quick and very intelligent spirit seizes every detail at a
glance, and he possesses a wonderful memory." The Emperor was now nominated an honorary Admiral
of the British navy and as a return compliment made Queen Victoria honorary "Chef" of his own
First Dragoon Guards. At the naval review a journalist asked an English naval officer what
would happen if the Emperor, in command of a German fleet, should meet a British fleet in time
of war between England and Germany?--"Would the British fleet have to salute the Emperor?"
"Certainly," replied the naval officer; "it would fire 100 guns at him."

Next year the Emperor was again in England, this time to be present at the Cowes regatta, which
he took part in regularly during the four succeeding years, noting, doubtless, all that might
prove useful for the development of the Kiel yachting "week," the success of which he had then,
as always since, particularly at heart. He was received by Queen Victoria with the simple and
homely words, "Welcome, William!"

A State visit to the City of London followed, when he was accompanied by the Empress, and was
entertained to a luncheon given by the City Fathers in the Guildhall. The entertainment, which
took place on July 10, 1891, was remarkable for a speech delivered by the Emperor in English,
in which, besides declaring his intention of maintaining the "historical friendship" between
England and Germany, he proclaimed that his great object "above all" was the preservation of
peace, "since peace alone can inspire that confidence which is requisite for a healthy development
of science, art, and commerce." On the same occasion he expressed his feeling of "being at
home" in England--"this delightful country"--and spoke of the "same blood which flows alike
in the veins of Germans and English." Shortly afterwards he attended a review of volunteers
at Wimbledon, and, as he said, was "agreeably astonished at the spectacle of so many citizen-soldiers
in a country that had no conscription."

The Emperor returned from England to receive the visit of his chief Triplice ally, the Emperor
Franz Joseph, and to discuss with him doubtless the European situation. Bismarck has been pictured
as sitting at the European chessboard pondering the moves necessary tor Germany to win the
game of which the great prize was the hegemony of Europe. The chief opposing Pieces, whose
aid or neutrality was desirable, were for long France, Russia, Austria, and Italy; but in 1883,
with the conclusion of the Triple Alliance, Austria and Italy needed less to be considered,
and the only two really important opposing pieces left were France and Russia. Still, Germany,
through her allies of the Triplice, might be dragged into war, and consequently the doings
of Austria and Italy, both in relation to one another and to France and Russia were, as they
now are, of great importance to her.

At the time of the accession, the chessboard of our metaphor was mainly occupied with Franco-German
relations and with Russian designs on Constantinople, the Dardanelles, and the Black Sea. The
danger to Germany of war with France, which had arisen out of the Boulanger and Schnaebele
incidents, had died down, but not altogether ceased. Hohenlohe tells us how at this time, in
conversation with the Emperor, the latter ventured the forecast: "Boulanger is sure to succeed.
I prophesy that as Kaiser Ernest he will pay a visit to Berlin." He was wrong, we know, as
so many prophets are.

Russian designs on Turkey had had to reckon with the opposition of England and Austria. As
regards these designs, Bismarck says:

     "Germany's policy should be one of reserve. Germany would
     act very foolishly if in Oriental questions, without having
     special interests, she took a side before the other Powers,
     who were more nearly interested: she would therefore do well
     to refrain from making her move as long as possible, and
     thus, besides, gain the benefit of longer peace."

The Chancellor, however, admitted that against the advantages of a policy of reserve had to
be set the disadvantage of Germany's position in the centre of Europe with its frontiers exposed
to the attacks of a coalition. "From this situation," said the Chancellor, "it results that
Germany is perhaps the only Great Power in Europe which is not tempted to attain its ends by
victorious war."

"Our interest," he goes on,

     "is to maintain peace, whereas our continental neighbours
     without exception have wishes, either secret or officially
     admitted, which can only be fulfilled through war.
     Consequently, German policy must be to prevent war or
     confine it as much as possible: to keep in the background
     while the European game of cards is going on: and not by
     loss of patience or concession at the cost of the country,
     or vanity, or provocation from friends, allow ourselves to
     be driven from the waiting attitude: otherwise--plectuntur
     Achivi!--third parties will rejoice."

That was the Bismarckian policy twenty-five years ago, and though new economic conditions have
had great influence in modifying it since, particularly as it regards the East, it is practically
Germany's policy now.

In his first speech from the throne to the Reichstag the Emperor thus referred to the Triple
Alliance:

     "Our Alliance with Austria-Hungary is publicly known. I hold
     to the same with German fidelity, not merely because it has
     been concluded, but because I see in this defensive union a
     foundation for the balance of power in Europe and a legacy
     of German history, the importance of which is recognized by
     the whole of the German people, while it accords with
     European international law as undeniably in force up to
     1866. Similar historical relations and similar national
     exigences of the time bind us to Italy. Both Germany and
     Italy desire to prolong the blessings of peace that they may
     pursue in tranquillity the consolidation of their newly
     acquired unity, the betterment of their national
     institutions, and the increase of their prosperity."

In a speech a few months later he declared that the Alliance had no other purpose than to strengthen
the peaceful relations of Germany to other foreign Powers. His next public reference to it
was in May, 1900, when Kaiser Franz Joseph visited Berlin on the occasion of the coming of
age of the German Crown Prince. "Truly," exclaimed the Emperor, in a vein of some exaggeration,

     "this Alliance is not alone an agreement in the eyes of the
     monarchs, but the longer it has existed, the deeper has it
     taken root in the convictions of the peoples, and the moment
     that the hearts of the peoples beat in unison nothing can
     tear them asunder. Common interests, common feelings, joy
     and sorrow shared together, unite our three nations for now
     twenty years, and although often enough misunderstandings
     and sarcasm and criticisms have been poured out on them, the
     three peoples have succeeded in maintaining peace hitherto,
     and are regarded by the whole world as its champions."

The history of the Triplice may be shortly related here as, along with his navy, it is regarded
by the Emperor as the chief factor in the preservation of the world's peace, and is, in fact,
as has been said, the foundation of his foreign policy. It arose from Bismarck's desire to
be independent of Russia and from his dread of a European coalition--for example, that of France,
Austria, and Russia--against the German Empire. "We had," Bismarck writes,

     "carried on successful war against two of the European Great
     Powers (Austria and France), and it became advisable to
     withdraw at least one of them from the temptation to revenge
     which lay in the prospect an alliance with others offered.
     It could not be France, as any one who knew the history and
     temperament of the two peoples could see, nor England owing
     to her dislike of permanent alliances, nor Italy as her
     support alone was insufficient against an anti-German
     coalition; so that the choice lay between Austria-Hungary
     and Russia."

For many reasons Bismarck would have preferred the Russian alliance, among others the traditional
dynastic friendship between the two countries and the fact that no natural political or religious
causes of conflict existed between them; while a union with Austria was less reliable, owing
to the changeable nature of her public opinion, the heterogeneousness of her Magyar, Slav,
and Catholic populations, and the loss of influence by the German element with the governing
body. On the other hand, however, an alliance with Austria would be nothing new, internationally,
as such a connection theoretically arose from the former connection of Germany and Austria
in the Holy Roman Empire. While weighing the matter, a threatening letter from Czar Alexander
II to William I, in which he called on Germany to support his Balkan policy, and said that
if he refused peace could not last between their two countries, decided Bismarck in favour
of Austria. The chief opponent of the new Alliance was William I, who was moved by personal
chivalric feelings towards his nephew, Czar Alexander; but, disregarding this, because confident
of eventually persuading his imperial master, Bismarck went to Gastein and there settled with
the Austrian Minister, Count Andrassy, the principles of the Alliance. Italy came into the
Alliance in 1883 as the immediate result of France obtaining a protectorate in Tunis, in return,
partly, for her acquiescence in the English acquisition of Cyprus. The protectorate aroused
general indignation and fear in Italy, and though it meant a large expenditure on naval and
military armament, on May 20, 1882, she joined the Dual Alliance for five years, and thus turned
it into the Triplice.

The Triple Alliance rests on three treaties: one between Germany and Austria-Hungary, one between
Germany and Italy, and one between Austria-Hungary and Italy. While by the first Germany and
Austria-Hungary bind themselves to combine in case of an attack on either by Russia, whether
as original foe or as ally, and to observe "at least" benevolent neutrality in case of attack
from any other quarter, by the second Germany and Italy bind themselves to mutual support in
case of an attack on either by France. The third, between Austria-Hungary and Italy, binds
the signatories to benevolent neutrality in case Austria-Hungary is attacked by Russia, or
Italy by France.

That there are weak points in the Triple Alliance is obvious. If Austria-Hungary were a purely
homogeneous country like France or Russia, Germany and Austria-Hungary, even without Italy,
could face with confidence an attack from either or both their powerful neighbours. But Austria-Hungary
is not homogeneous. A large proportion of her population is anti-German, or at least non-German,
and Italy is always subject to be tempted by an opportunity of obtaining some of Austria-Hungary's
Adriatic possessions. Moreover, a large party is even now to be found in Austria-Hungary which
desires revenge for the humiliation of her defeat by Germany in 1866.

The relations of Germany to Russia have always been rather those of friendship between the
monarchs of the two countries than of friendship between the two peoples; and it is easy to
understand that the fear of revolution, Socialism, or "government of the people, by the people,
for the people," to use Lincoln's celebrated phrase, at all times forms a strong and active
bond of sympathy between the monarchs. In the case of Russia there is also always to be considered
the obstinate, or as the Emperor would call it knightly, spirit in which his grandfather, King
William I, regarded his obligation to maintain friendship with the Czar, and which for a long
time made him hostile to the idea of alliance with Austria instead of alliance with Russia.
The feeling, it is highly probable, is strong, if not equally strong, in the mind of the Emperor
to-day, if only out of respect for the memory of his ancestor. There is not, to use a popular
expression, much love lost between the two peoples, not only because of racial differences
between Teuton and Slav, but because of the differences in religion and in degree of civilization.
There are not a few Germans who assert that Germany's next war will be with Russia, and that
from the dominions of the Czar will be obtained the fresh territory Germany needs for her constantly
expanding population.

The Czar returned the Emperor's accession visit in Berlin in October, 1889, and it was on this
occasion that the first sign of trouble between the Emperor and the old Chancellor showed itself.
When the Emperor first proposed to make his round of visits of accession to foreign sovereigns,
Bismarck agreed except as regarded Russia and England, objecting that visits to these countries
would have an alternatively bad effect in each. The Emperor, however, as has been noted, went
to Russia. During the return visit in Berlin, Bismarck had an interview with the Czar which
resulted in the final adjustment of Russo-German relations, but at its close the Czar said,
"Yes, I believe you and have confidence in you, but are you sure you will remain in office?"
Bismarck looked surprised, and said, "Certainly, Majesty; I am quite certain I shall remain
in office all my life"--an odd thing, one may remark, for a man to say, who must have been
familiar with the saying, "Put not your trust in princes."

When the Czar was going away, both the Emperor and Bismarck accompanied him to the station,
and on their return the Emperor gave the old Chancellor a seat in his carriage. The talk concerned
the visit just over, and the Emperor again announced his intention of spending some time in
Russia the following year. Bismarck now advised against the project on the ground that it would
arouse hostility in Austria, and because "it was not suitable considering the Czar's disposition
towards the Emperor."

"What disposition? What do you mean? How do you know?" questioned the Emperor quickly.

"From confidential letters I am in the habit of receiving from St. Petersburg, in addition
to official reports," replied the Chancellor.

The Emperor expressed a wish to see the letters, but Bismarck gave an evasive answer. The result
was a temporary coolness between Emperor and Chancellor.

From a memorandum of Prince Hohenlohe's we get a glimpse of one of the political currents and
anti-currents just now running high. Prince Hohenlohe writes under date, June 27, 1888, when
the Emperor was hardly a fortnight on the throne:--

     "Last evening at 8 left Berlin with Thaden after supping
     with Victor and Franz (son and nephew) in the Kaiserhof
     Hotel. Paid several visits during the day. I found Friedberg
     somewhat depressed. He is no longer the big man he was in
     the Emperor Frederick's time, when everybody courted him. He
     knows that the Emperor does not favour Jews. Then I visited
     the new chief of the Cabinet (civil), Lucanus, a courtly,
     polished, obliging man, who looks more like an elegant
     Austrian privy councillor. Wilmoski inspires me with more
     confidence. At 5 to Bleichroeder's (Bleichroeder was the
     great Jew banker). We spoke, or rather he spoke first, about
     the political situation. He is satisfied, and says Bismarck
     is too. Only the Emperor must take care to keep out of the
     hands of the Orthodox. People in the country wouldn't stand
     that. (He is right there, comments Hohenlohe.) Waldersee and
     his followers, he said, was another danger. Waldersee was a
     foe of Bismarck's and thought himself fit for anything and
     everything. Who knows but that these gentlemen wouldn't
     begin the old game and say to the Emperor, 'You are simply
     nothing but a doll. Bismarck is the real ruler.' On the old
     Emperor this would have made no impression, but the young
     one would be more sensitive. Bismarck, therefore, wanted
     Waldersee's banishment, and would, if he could, send him to
     Strasburg (where Hohenlohe was Statthalter) as commanding
     general. Perhaps he was only aiming at making me (Hohenlohe)
     sick of my post and so get rid of Waldersee, his enemy, when
     I cleared out. Bleichroeder said Bismarck only introduced
     the compulsory pass system to show the Emperor that he too
     could act sharply against the French, and so as to take the
     wind out of the sails of the military party. Bismarck was
     thinking above all about seating his son Herbert firmly in
     the saddle (Herbert was Secretary of State for Foreign
     Affairs). That is the sole motive of his action and thought.
     There was therefore no prospect of matters in the Rhineland
     improving. As to Russia, Bleichroeder expected some
     occurrence, something out of the way (exotisches) by which
     Russia might be won, either the withdrawal of troops from
     the frontier or a meeting of Emperors. The Emperor, Bismarck
     said, would not begin a war. If it came, however, it would
     not be unwelcome to him."

Prince Hohenlohe also tells of a visit he paid in the month of the accession to the widowed
Empress Frederick. "She is much bowed down," he said,

     "very harassed-looking, and I feel sure that all this recent
     time, all the last year in fact, she has been displaying an
     artificial good-humour, for now I find her in deep distress.
     At first she could not speak for weeping. We spoke of the
     Emperor Frederick's last days, then she recovered herself a
     little and complained of the wickedness and meanness of men,
     by which she meant to allude to certain people.... Herbert
     Bismarck had had the impudence to tell the Prince of Wales
     (later Edward VII) that an Emperor who could not talk and
     discuss things should not be allowed to reign, and so on.
     The Prince of Wales, the Empress said, told Herbert that if
     it were not that he valued good relations between England
     and Germany, he would have thrown him out of the door....
     Waldersee was a false, unprincipled wretch, who would think
     nothing of ruining his country if he could only satisfy his
     own personal ambition."

Prince Hohenlohe finally called on the Prince of Wales, who "spoke prudently, but showed his
disgust at the roughness of the Bismarcks, and could not understand their policy of irritating
France."

The particular question concerning France that was agitating Germany at the time of the accession
was the state of affairs in Alsace-Lorraine, and particularly Bismarck's measure requiring
French citizens entering the provinces to provide themselves with a pass from the German Ambassador
in Paris. The amiable and conciliatory Statthalter, Prince Hohenlohe, had to make a reluctant
journey to Berlin in connexion with this question. There was another question also weighing
on his mind--the question whether or not he should have a sentry guard before his official
residence in Strasburg. The military authorities, whose rivalry with the civil authorities
everywhere in Germany for influence and power still continues, wanted to have the sentries
abolished, but the Prince eventually had his way. He showed Bismarck that they were necessary
for his reputation with the population, which had already begun to think less of his influence
as Statthalter owing to his one day at a review having incautiously and gallantly taken a back
seat in his carriage in favour of some lady guests.

In normal times the composers of speeches from the throne are accustomed to describe the relations
between their own and foreign countries as "friendly." When the relations are not friendly,
yet not the opposite, they are usually registered on the political barometer as "correct."
The attitude on both sides is formal, rigorously polite, reserved; such as would become a pair
of people who had once been at feud and after their quarrel had been fought out agreed, if
only for the sake of appearances, to show no outward animosity, but on the other hand not give
an inch of way. The position of France and Germany is "correct"; it has never been friendly
since 1870; and it must be many a long year before it can be friendly again. Apart from the
difference between the Latin and Teutonic temperaments, apart from the legacy of hate left
in Germany against France by the sufferings and humiliations the great Napoleon caused her,
apart from the fact that one people is republican and the other monarchical, there is always
one thing that will prevent reconciliation--the loss by France of the fair provinces Alsace
and Lorraine. It is of no use for Germany to remind France that up to the Peace of Westphalia
in 1648 this territory belonged to Germany, or rather to what then was known by that name.
It was useless as well as ungracious for Bismarck to tell France to seek compensation in Africa
for what she had lost in Europe. Like Rachel mourning for her children, France will not be
comforted; and now, as from the heavy hour in which she lost the provinces, she grieves over
the memory of them and nurses the hope, still mingled with hate, of one glorious day regaining
them. There are sanguine spirits who assert that the old feeling is dying out, and the German
Government studiously encourages that view. It may be so; time is having its obliterating effects;
and in externals at least the Germanization of the provinces is slowly making progress. Still
the wound is deep, and there seems no prospect of its healing.

Several suggestions have been made with a view to an arrangement that might leave France without
reason, or with less reason, for constant meditation on revenge One of them is the neutralization
of Alsace-Lorraine on the model of Belgium, while another is the distribution of the territory,
so that while Alsace is divided between Baden and Bavaria, Lorraine becomes a part of Prussia
A third would divide the provinces between the two nations. An illustration of the yet prevailing
feeling is found in the fact that large Alsatian firms invariably use French in their correspondence
with Berlin firms, and almost as invariably refer to the "customs-arrangement" with Germany
in 1871. They cannot bring themselves to use the word "annexation."

Yet of late years--to anticipate somewhat the course of events--Germany has made two important
concessions to Alsace-Lorraine. The first was the abrogation of the so-called "Dictator-Paragraph,"
which was part of the law for administering the new provinces after the war of 1870. Under
the paragraph the Lieutenant-Governor (Oberpresident) of the Reichsland, as the newly incorporated
territory is now officially known, was empowered in case of need to take command of the military
forces and proclaim a state of siege. When announcing the abrogation of the Paragraph in the
Reichstag in 1902, Chancellor von Bülow gave a résumé of the relations of the provinces to
the Empire since 1870. He stated that immediately after the war the population were not disposed
to incorporation in the Empire, as they thought the new state of things would only be temporary
and that France would soon reconquer the provinces. This state of feeling, the Chancellor explained,
naturally reacted on the Government, which accordingly laid down the principle that the claims
of the provinces to equal political rights with other parts of the Empire could only be recognized
step by step, as the Government was satisfied that the population conformed to the new order
of things.

The second important concession to the Provinces was made only recently, when the provincial
committee was replaced by a popularly elected Diet and the Provinces were granted three seats
in the Federal Council. There is a proviso that in case of equality in the Council meetings
the votes shall not be allowed to turn the scale in favour of Prussia. The limitation is a
concession to the susceptibilities of the other Federal states.

Germany's relations with Great Britain at the time of the accession were unclouded. Mr. Gladstone
had been defeated on his Home Rule proposals and Lord Salisbury was back in power. A lull had
occurred in British relations with the Transvaal. All nations, including Germany, were beginning
to turn their attention to the Orient with a view to the acquisition in Asia of "spheres of
influence and spheres of interest," but as yet English and German interests had not come anywhere
into conflict.

The Emperor's great internal foe and the object of his special enmity is the Social Democracy,
and practically from the day of his accession he has waged war with it. His attitude towards
the Socialists requires no long description, since it logically results from his traditional
conception of Prussian monarchy and from the revolutionary character of Social Democratic aims.
While a young man he paid little or no attention to the movement, and probably regarded it
as the "passing phenomenon" he subsequently declared it to be. In 1884 the number of Social
Democratic voters was something over half a million, and the number of Social Democratic members
returned to the Reichstag 25: in 1890, two years after the accession, the figures were a million
and a half and 35 respectively.

The Emperor's denunciation of Social Democrats has always been unmeasured. "A crew undeserving
the name of Germans," a "plague that must be extirpated," "traitors," "people without a country
and enemies to religion," "foes to the Empire and the country"--such were a few of the expressions
he then and during the next few years publicly applied to three millions of his subjects. To-day,
it may be added, the number of Social Democrats in Germany is well over four millions.

In 1889, in reply to a deputation of three coal miners' representatives, the Emperor said:

     "As regards your demands, I will have them carefully
     investigated (a phrase, by the way, not unknown in England)
     by my Government, and let you know the result through the
     usual official channels. Should, however, offences against
     public peace and order occur, should a connexion between
     your movement and Social Democratic circles be demonstrated,
     I would not be in a position to weigh your wishes with my
     royal goodwill, since for me every Social Democrat is the
     same thing as a foe to the Empire and the Fatherland.
     Accordingly, if I see that Social Democratic tendencies mix
     with the movement and lead to unlawful opposition, I will
     intervene with all my powers--and they are great."

And a month later:

     "That the Radical agitation of the Social Democracy has
     turned so many heads and hearts is due to the fact that in
     schools, high and low, too little is taught about the cruel
     deeds of the French Revolution and too little about the
     heroic deeds of the War of Liberation, which was (with the
     help of English bayonets, be it parenthetically remarked)
     the salvation of the Fatherland."

In 1892, to anticipate by a year or two, in reply to a guest who had observed that Social Democrats
were not decreasing in numbers, the Emperor remarked:

     "The moment the Social Democracy feels itself in possession
     of power it will not hesitate for an instant to attack the
     Burghertum (middle classes) very energetically. No
     exhibition of general benevolence is of any use against
     these people--here only religious feeling, founded on
     decided faith, can have any influence."

The Emperor, referring to the murder of a manufacturer in Mulhausen, said: "Another victim
to the revolutionary movement kept alive by the Socialists. If only our people would act like men!"

And yet it is obvious, looking at it from the standpoint of to-day, that an admirably organized
movement with four million parliamentary voters in an electorate of fourteen millions, with
no members in an Imperial Parliament of 397 with representatives, more or less numerous, on
almost every municipal board of any importance in the Empire, with the power of disturbing
at any moment the relations between capital and labour, upon which the prosperity, security,
and comfort of the whole population depend, and in intimate relations with the Socialists of
all other countries, cannot be merely ignored or disposed of by scornful and sarcastic speeches,
by official anathema, or even by close police supervision. There must be something behind it
all which ought to be susceptible of explanation.

Before, however, attempting to conjecture what the something is, it will be advisable, familiar
to many though the facts must be, to recapitulate, as briefly as possible, the history of the
movement. Old as the story is, it is necessary to have some knowledge of it, for Social Democracy
is the great, perhaps the only, domestic political thorn in the Emperor's side.

It is a truism to say that the "social question," the question how best to organize society,
is as old as society itself. Great thinkers all down the ages, from Plato to Sir Thomas More,
from More to Jean Jacques Rousseau, from Rousseau to Saint Simon, Fourier, Louis Blanc, Lassalle,
and Karl Marx, have devoted their attention to it. The French Revolutionists tried to solve
it, and the revolutionary movement of 1848 took up the problem in its turn.

German Social Democracy may be referred for its source to the teachings of Louis Blanc, who
formed in 1840 a workmen's society in Paris. Blanc held, as the Social Democrats hold, that
capitalism was the cause of all social evil, and that the workman was powerless against it.
He therefore proposed the establishment of workmen's societies for purposes of production,
and the grant of the necessary capital at a low rate of interest by the State. The doctrine
was taken up in Germany with fiery enthusiasm by Ferdinand Lassalle, who, in May, 1863, founded
the General German Workmen's Society for a "peaceful, lawful agitation" in favour of universal
suffrage as a first means to the desired end. Universal suffrage was granted by the North German
Confederation in 1867, and in 1873 Lassalle's adherents numbered 60,000.

Meanwhile, Karl Marx and his disciple, Frederic Engels, had been propagating their theories,
and in 1848 the former published his famous work on the ideal social state. At first Marx was
a partizan of revolutionary methods, but he subsequently recanted this view and proclaimed
that the Socialistic aim in future should be the "strengthening of the economic and political
power of the workman so that the expropriation of private property could be obtained by legislation."
The Marxian doctrine was adopted in Germany by Wilhelm Liebknecht and August Bebel, who, at
Eisenach in 1869, founded the Association of Social Democratic Workmen, to which the present
German party owes its name. The Eisenach programme declared "the economic dependence of the
workmen on the monopolists of the tools of labour the foundation of servitude and social evil,"
and demanded "the economic emancipation of the working classes." An attempt to get the Lassalle
society to join the Eisenacher society on an international basis failed for the time, but the
two associations finally coalesced at the Gotha Congress of 1875.

The attempt on the life of William I in 1878 by the anarchist Nobiling had an important effect
on the fortunes of the party and the character of its programme. The Socialist Laws were passed
and the police began a campaign against the Socialists, of which the mildest features were
the dissolution of societies, the searching of houses, the expulsion of suspected persons,
and the interdiction of Socialist newspapers and periodicals.

For the next few years the party held its annual congresses in Switzerland or Denmark, but
as the Socialist Laws ceased to have effect after three years, and were not then renewed, the
party resumed its congresses in Germany. The Congress at Erfurt in 1891 resulted in the issue
of a new programme rejecting the Lassalle plan for the establishment of workmen's societies
for productive purposes and substituting for it the transfer of all capitalistic private property
engaged in the means of production, such as lands, mines, raw material, tools, machinery, and
means of transport, to the State. The term used in the programme is "state," not "society,"
but the State is in fact nothing but the society armed with coercive powers.

Other objects are universal suffrage for both sexes over twenty, electoral reform, two-year
parliaments, direct legislation "through the people," some form of parliamentary government,
autonomy of the people in Empire, State, Province, and Parish, conscription, national militia
instead of standing army, international arbitration, abolition of State religion, free and
compulsory education, abolition of capital punishment, free burial, free medical assistance,
free legal advice and advocacy, progressive succession duties, inheritance tax, abolition of
indirect taxation and customs, parliamentary decisions as to peace and war, and undenominationalism
in schools.

Especially for the working classes are intended the following: National and international protective
legislation for workmen on the basis of a normal eight hours day, prohibition of child labour
under fourteen years, prohibition of night work save rendered necessary by the nature of the
work or the welfare of society, superintendence of labour and its relations by a Ministry of
Labour, thorough workshop hygiene, equality of status between the agricultural labourer, servant
class, and the artisan, right of association, and State insurance, as to which the working
class should have an authoritative voice.

The programme contains nothing as to the practical consequences of the provisions it contains,
but Herr Bebel, in his book on "Woman and Social Democracy," gives some examples. One is that
the working time will be alike for men and women, another that domestic life will be limited
to the cohabitation of man and woman, for children are to be brought up by society, and a third
that cooking and washing will be the care of central public kitchens and washhouses. Meanwhile,
all these years, it may be noted, Herr Bebel and his millions of followers have been living
exactly like everybody else.

The student of working-class conditions in Germany is unlikely to think clearly unless he distinguishes
between such terms as Social Democracy, Socialism, Trade Unionism, and Labour party. Social
Democracy is a species of Socialism. All Social Democrats are Socialists, but not all Socialists
Social Democrats. The latter, as an enrolled political party, paying annual subscriptions and
looking forward to the future state as conceived by Marx, and now by Bebel, number something
under a million; the remaining three millions who voted for Social Democratic candidates at
the last general election may have included men who believe in Social Democratic ideals, but
the vast majority of them, unless one does grave injustice to their common sense, voted for
such candidates owing to dissatisfaction with the policy of the Government and present conditions
generally--the high cost of living, the pressure of taxation, the severity of class distinctions,
and like grievances, real or imaginary. These people are Socialists in the English or international
sense of the word, not Social Democrats strictly speaking; and with these people the Emperor
is most angry because he knows they form the element most capable of dangerous expansion.

Again, though the vast majority of German Socialists in the broader sense are Trade Unionists,
not all Trade Unionists are Socialists. Trade Unionism--the organization of labour against
capital--is represented in Germany by two main bodies; the free or Socialist Unions containing
about two million working men, and the "Christian" or loyal "National" Unions, which are anti-Social
Democrat and anti-Socialist. These have a membership of about 300,000. The Hirsch-Duncker Unions,
with 100,000 members, are Liberal, but also loyal and anti-Socialist. In labour conflicts,
naturally, as distinguished from politics, all workmen of the particular branch in conflict
work together, whether they are Socialist or not. It need only be added that there is no so-called
"Labour party" in the German Parliaments. The Social Democratic party in the Reichstag represents
labour interests generally, and promote them much more insistently and successfully than they
do the Utopia of their dreams.

But enough has been said to show the comprehensive and revolutionary nature of Social Democratic
doctrine. The only other feature that requires mention in connexion with the movement is the
desire on the part of a section of the party for a revision of its programme. The party of
revision is usually identified with the names of Heinrich von Vollmar, who first suggested
it, and Eduard Bernstein, who is in favour of trying to realize that portion of the programme
which deals with the social needs of the existing generation, the demands of the present day,
and would leave to posterity the attainment of the final goal. The views of the Revisionists
differ also from those of the Radicals in respect of two other main questions which divide
the party, that of voting budgets and that of going to court. The Revisionists are willing
to do both, and the Radicals to do neither. A decisive split in the party is annually looked
for, but hitherto, when congress-day came, the Revisionists, for the sake of peace and unity
in the party, have refrained from pushing their views to extremes. One might suppose that professors
of the tenets of Social Democracy would get into trouble with the police, but they avoid arrest
and imprisonment by taking care to avoid attacking property or the family, advocating a republic,
or introducing religious questions into their discussions.

In dealing with the growth of Social Democracy in Germany the philosophic historian would doubtless
refer to the French Revolution, or go still farther back to the Reformation, as the starting-point
of every great change in the views of civilized mankind during the last four and a half centuries;
but it is with more recent times these pages are chiefly concerned and consequently with causes
now operative. The main specific cause is the change from agriculture to industry, and with
it the growth of what is generally spoken of as "industrialism." Industrialism means the assemblage
of large masses of intelligent men forming a community of their own, with its special conditions
and the wants and wishes arising from them. This is the most fertile field for Socialism, for
a new organization of society. In Germany Socialistic ideas kept growing with the increase
of industrialism, and came to a head with the attempts by Hödel and Nobiling on the life of
the Emperor William. The anti-Socialist laws, passed for a definite period, followed, but they
were not renewed; the Emperor and his Government pressed on instead with a great and far-reaching
social policy, and Socialism, in the form of Social Democracy, freed from restraint, took a
new lease of life.

Another cause of as general, but less ponderable, a nature is the remnant of the feudal spirit
and feudal manners which lingers in the attitude of the German governing and official classes
towards the rest of the population. The most objectionable features of the feudal system have
passed away, the cruel and exclusive rights and privileges which only men in ignorant personal
servitude to an all-powerful master could permanently endure; but traces of the system still
exist in the official attitude towards the public and in the tone of the official communications
issued by the administrative services generally. Attitude and tone may be referred in part
to the traditional character of the Prussian monarchy, which regards the people as a flock
of sheep, or as a "talent," as the Emperor has called it, entrusted to its care and management
by Heaven; but it is also due in part to the systematization of public life--and largely of
private life--which at times makes the foreigner inclined to think Germany at once the most
Socialistic and at the same time the most tyrannically ruled country in the world. Everything
in Germany must be done systematically, and the system must be the result of development. But
there is no use in having a system unless it is enforced--otherwise it remains, like Social
Democracy, a theory. Compulsion, therefore, is necessary, and the Government provides it through
its official machinery and its police. The systematization has enormous public advantages,
but it is difficult for the Anglo-Saxon, jealous of his individual right to direct his public
life through his own representatives and his private life according to his own judgment, to
accommodate himself to a system which seems to him unduly to interfere with both right and
judgment.

Perhaps it is the manner in which, under the name of authority, compulsion is exercised by
subordinate officialdom and in especial by the police, as much as the compulsion itself, which
irritates in Germany. Every profession, business, trade, and occupation, down to that of selling
matches and newspapers in the streets, is meticulously regulated; and while there is nothing
to object to in this, what strikes the Anglo-Saxon as objectionable is that the regulations
are enforced with the manners and in the tone of a drill-sergeant. The official in Germany,
he finds, is not the servant of the public. There is a story current in England of a Duke of
Norfolk, when Postmaster-General, going into a district post-office and asking for a penny
stamp. The clerk was dilatory, and the Duke remonstrated. "Who are you, I should like to know?"
asked the clerk impertinently, "that you are laying down the law." "I am the public," replied
the Duke simply, at the same time showing the clerk his card. An English Foreign Secretary
once told a deputation that the Ministry was "waiting for instructions from their employers--the
people." In Germany it is the opposite; the official is the master and the public his dutiful
servant. In Germany the official expects marked deference from the public: the post-office
clerk is "Mr. Official," the guardian of the law "Mr. Policeman" (with your hat off). The Anglo-Saxon
rather expects the deference to be on the other side, and has a sordid subconsciousness that
he pays the official for his services. Perhaps the Social Democrat has something of the same
feeling.

One of the chief consequences of industrialism in Germany is that the people of the country
are migrating to the towns. To the country bumpkin the city is an Eldorado and a lordly pleasure-house.
In truth, he is much better off in it than in the stagnant life of the country. In the city
he sees comfort on every hand, with possibilities of enjoyment of every kind, and if he does
not soon get a share of the good things going he grows discontented and turns Socialist. In
the city, too, he learns to think and compare, he perceives the distinction of classes and
notices that certain classes have open to them careers from which he is excluded. Then there
is the apparently inevitable antagonism between labour and capital, between the employer and
employed, which drives the worker to Social Democracy, as offering the prospect of his becoming
his own master and enjoying the whole fruits of his labour. He may not know Matthew Arnold's
"Sick King in Bokhara," but he would endorse Arnold's lines:--

     "And these all, for a lord
     Eat not the fruit of their own hands;
     Which is the heaviest of all plagues
     To that man's mind, who understands."

But whatever its causes, Social Democracy is one of the most curious and anomalous societies
extant. In a country which worships order, it calls for absolute disorder. A revolutionary
movement, it anxiously avoids revolution. It is a magnificent organization for no apparent
practical, direct, or immediate purpose. Proclaiming the protection of the law and enjoying
the blessing of efficient government, it yet refuses to vote the budget to pay for them. It
supports a large parliamentary party without any clear or consistent parliamentary policy in
internal or external affairs, unless to be "agin the Government" is a policy. And lastly, if
some of its economic demands are justifiable, and have in several respects been satisfied by
modern legislation, its fundamental doctrine, the basis of the entire edifice, is a wild hallucination,
sickening to common sense, and completely out of harmony with the progressive economic development
of all nations, including its own.

In conclusion, it may be added that the social side of the Social Democracy is perhaps too
often unrecognized or ignored by the foreign observer. Life for the poorer classes in Germany
is apt to be more monotonous and dull than for the poorer classes of any country which nature
has blessed with more fertility, more sunshine, more diversity of hill and dale, and where
people are more mutually sociable and accommodating. Social Democracy offers something by way
of remedy to this: a field of interest in which the workers can organize and make processions
and public demonstrations and can talk and theorize and dispute, and in which the woman can
share the interest with the man; or a club, a social club with the largest membership in the
world except freemasonry.

We must return, however, to the Emperor. During this period, in December, 1890, he, like every
one else with his own ideas on education as well as on art and religion, delivered his views
on popular instruction. At this time--he was then thirty--he called together forty-five of
the ablest educational experts of the country and addressed them on the subject of high-school
education. His Minister of Education, Dr. von Grossler, had drawn up a programme of fourteen
points for discussion, and the Emperor added to these a few others he wished to have considered.

German high-school education, be it remarked, is a different thing from English public-school
education, and ought rather to be spoken of as German information than as German education.
We have seen that the spirit of the German university differs largely from that of the English
university, in that it is not concerned with the formation of character or the inculcation
of manners. The same may be said of the German gymnasium, or high school, the institution from
which the German youth, as a rule, goes to college. No teaching institution, English or German,
be it further said on our own account, makes any serious attempt to teach what will prepare
youth for intercourse with the extremely complicated world of to-day, to give him, to take
but one example, the faintest notion of contract, which, if he possessed it, would save him
from many a foolish undertaking and protect him from many a business betrayal, Far from it.
All the disagreeable, and many of the painful incidents of his subsequent life, all equally
avoidable if knowledge regarding them had been instilled into him in his early years, he must
buy with money and suffering and disgust in after-years.

But the Emperor is waiting to be heard. His entire speech need not be quoted, but only its
chief contentions. In introducing his remarks he claimed to speak with knowledge as having
himself sat on a public-school bench at Cassel.

The Social Democracy being to the Emperor what King Charles's head was to Mr. Dick, it is not
surprising to find almost his first statement being to the effect that if boys had been properly
taught up to then, there would be no Social Democracy. Up to 1870, he said, the great subject
of instruction for youth was the necessity for German unity. Unity had been achieved, the Empire
was now founded, and there the matter rested. "Now," said the Emperor, "we must recognize that
the school is for the purpose of teaching how the Empire is to be maintained. I see nothing
of such teaching, and I ought to know, for I am at the head of the Empire, and all such questions
come under my observation. What," he continues,

     "is lacking in the education of our youth? The chief fault
     is that since 1870 the philologists have sat in the high
     schools as beati possidentes and laid chief stress upon
     the knowledge to be acquired and not on the formation of
     character and the demands of the present time. Emphasis has
     been put on the ability to know, not on the ability to
     do--the pupil is expected to know, that is the main thing,
     and whether what he knows is suitable for the conduct of
     life or not is considered a secondary matter. I am told the
     school has only to do with the gymnastics of the mind, and
     that a young man, well trained in these gymnastics, is
     equipped for the needs of life. This is all wrong and can't
     go on."

Then the Empire-builder speaks--what is wanted above all is a national basis.

     "We must make German the foundation for the gymnasium: we
     must produce patriotic young Germans, not young Greeks and
     Romans. We must depart from the centuries-old basis, from
     the old monastic education of the Middle Ages, when Latin
     was the main thing and a tincture of Greek besides. That is
     no longer the standard. German must be the standard. The
     German exercise must be the pivot on which all things turn.
     When in the exit examination (Abiturientenexamen) a
     student hands in a German essay, one can judge from it what
     are the mental acquirements of the young man and decide
     whether he is fit for anything or not. Of course people will
     object--the Latin exercise is very important, very good for
     instructing students in other languages, and so on. Yes,
     gentlemen, I have been through the mill. How do we get this
     Latin exercise? I have often seen a young man get, say 4-1/2
     marks, for his German exercise--'satisfactory,' it was
     considered--and 2 for his Latin exercise. The youngster
     deserved punishment instead of praise, because it is clear
     he did not write his Latin exercise in a proper way; and of
     all the Latin exercises we wrote there was not one in a
     dozen which was done without cribbing. These exercises were
     marked 'good,' but when we wrote an essay on 'Minna von
     Barnhelm' (one of Lessing's dramas) we got hardly
     'satisfactory.' So I say, away with the Latin exercise, it
     only harms us, and robs us of time we might give to German."

The Emperor goes on to recommend the study of the nation's history, geography, and literature
("Der Sage," poetry, he calls it).

     "Let us begin at home," he says; "when we have learned
     enough at home, we can go to the museums. But above all we
     must know our German history. In my time the Grand Elector
     was a very foggy personage, the Seven Years' War was quite
     outside consideration, and history ended with the close of
     the last century, the French Revolution. The War of
     Liberation, the most important for the young citizen, was
     not taught thoroughly, and I only learned to know it, thank
     God, through the very interesting lectures of Dr. Hinzpeter.
     This, however, is the punctum saliens. Why are our young
     men misled? Why do we find so many unclear, confused
     world-improvers? Why is our government so cavilled at and
     criticized, and so often told to look at foreign nations?
     Because the young men do not know how our conditions have
     developed, and that the roots of the development lie in the
     period of the French Revolution. Consequently, I am
     convinced that if they understood the transition period from
     the Revolution to the nineteenth century in its fundamental
     features, they would have a far better understanding of the
     questions of to-day than they now have. At the universities
     they can supplement their school knowledge."

The Emperor then turned to other points. It was "absolutely necessary" to reduce the hours
of work. When he was at school, he said, all German parents were crying out against the evil,
and the Government set on foot an inquiry. He and his brother (Henry) had every morning to
hand a memorandum to the head master showing how many hours it had taken them to prepare the
lessons for the day. In the Emperor's case it took, "honestly," from 5-1/2 to 7 hours' home
study. To this was to be added 6 hours in school and 2 hours for eating meals--"How much of
the day," the Emperor asks, "was left? If I," he said, "hadn't been able to ride to and from
school I wouldn't have known what the world even looked like." The result of this, he continued,
was an

     "over-production of educated people, more than the nation
     wanted and more than was tolerable for the sufferers
     themselves. Hence the class Bismarck called the
     abiturienten-proletariat, all the so-called hunger
     candidates, especially the Mr. Journalists, who are often
     broken-down scholars and a danger to us. This surplus, far
     too large as it is, is like an irrigation field that cannot
     soak up any more water, and it must be got rid of."

Another matter touched on by the Emperor was a reduction in the amount to be learned, so that
more time might be had for the formation of character. This cannot be done now, he remarks,
in a class containing thirty youngsters, who have such a huge amount of subjects to master.
The teacher, too, the Emperor said, must learn that his work is not over when he has delivered
his lecture. "It isn't a matter of knowledge," he concludes "but a matter of educating the
young people for the practical affairs of life."

The Emperor lastly dealt with the subject of shortsightedness. "I am looking for soldiers,"
he said.

     "We need a strong and healthy generation, which will also
     serve the Fatherland as intellectual leaders and officials.
     This mass of shortsightedness is no use, since a man who
     can't use his eyes--how can he do anything later?"

and he went on to mention the extraordinary facts that in some of the primary classes of German
schools as many as 74 per cent, were shortsighted, and that in his class at Cassel, of the
twenty-one pupils, eighteen wore spectacles, while two of them could not see the desk before
them without their glasses.

The Englishman in Germany often attributes German shortsightedness to the Gothic character
of German print. It is more probable that the long hours of study spent poring over books without
fresh-air exercise, judiciously interposed, is responsible for it.

It has been said that every one, like the Emperor, has his own theory of education, but there
is one passage in the Emperor's speech with which almost all men will agree--that, namely,
in which he urges that knowledge is not the only--perhaps not the chief--thing, but that young
people must be educated for the practical affairs of life. Unfortunately, as to how we are
successfully to do this, the Emperor is silent; and it may be that there is no certain or exact
way. One could, of course--but we are concerned with the Emperor.

The difference of opinion between the Emperor and Bismarck regarding the Emperor's visit to
Russia seems to have left no permanent ill-will in the Emperor's mind, for on returning in
October, 1889, from visits to Athens, where he attended the wedding of his sister Sophie with
the Heir-Apparent of Greece, Prince Constantine (now King Constantine), and Constantinople,
where he was allowed to inspect the Sultan's seraglio, he sent a letter to the Chancellor praying
God to grant that the latter's "faithful and experienced counsel might for many years assist
him in his difficult and responsible office." In January, 1890, however, the question of renewing
the Socialist Laws, which would expire shortly, came up for settlement. A council of Ministers,
under the Emperor's presidency, was called to decide it. When the council met, Bismarck was
greatly surprised by a proposal of the Emperor to issue edicts developing the principles laid
down by his grandfather for working-class reform instead of renewing the Socialist Laws. The
Reichstag took the Emperor's view and voted against the renewal of the Laws. It only now remained
to give effect to the Emperor's edicts. They were considered at a further council of Ministers,
at which the Emperor exhorted them to "leave the Social Democracy to me, I can manage them
alone." The Ministers agreed, and Bismarck was in a minority of one. This, however, was only
the beginning of the end. Bismarck decided to continue in office until he had carried through
Parliament a new military Bill, which was to come before it in May or June. Meanwhile fresh
matters of controversy between the Emperor and the Chancellor arose regarding the grant of
imperial audiences to Ministers other than the Chancellor. Bismarck insisted that the Chancellor
alone had the right to be received by the Emperor for the discussion of State affairs.

The quarrel was accentuated by a lively scene which occurred between the Emperor and the Chancellor
about this period in connexion with a visit the leader of the Catholic Centre party had paid
the Chancellor, and on March 17th the Emperor sent his chief Adjutant, General von Hahnke,
to say he awaited the Chancellor's resignation. Bismarck replied that to resign at this juncture
would be an act of desertion; the Emperor could dismiss him. At the same time the Chancellor
summoned a meeting of Ministers for the afternoon, but while they were discussing the situation
a message was brought from the Emperor telling them he did not require their advice in such
a matter and that he had made up his mind about the Chancellor. The messenger on the same occasion
expressed to Bismarck the Emperor's surprise at not having received a formal resignation. Bismarck's
reply was that it would require some days to prepare such a document, as it was the last official
statement of a "Minister who had played a meritorious part in the history of Prussia and Germany,
and history should know why he had been dismissed." Three days later, on March 20th, an hour
or two after the formal resignation reached the palace, the Emperor's letter granting the Chancellor's
request for his release, naming him Duke of Lauenburg and announcing the appointment of General
von Caprivi as his successor, was put into the old Chancellor's hands.

VI.

THE COURT OF THE EMPEROR

While the ex-Chancellor is bitterly meditating on the unreliability and ingratitude of princes,
yet having in his heart, as the records clearly show, the loyal sentiments of a Cardinal Wolsey
towards his royal master, even though that master had cast him off, we may be allowed to pause
awhile in order to give some account of the Court of which the Emperor now became the centre
and pivot.

Human imagination, in its worship of force as the source of ability to achieve the ends of
ambition and desire, very early conceived the courts of kings as fairylands of power, wealth,
luxury, and magnificence--in a word, of happiness. The same imagination represents the Almighty,
whose true nature no one knows, as a monarch in the bright court of heaven, and his great antagonist,
Satan, who stands for the king of evil, is enthroned by it amid the shades of hell. The fiction
that courts are a species of earthly paradise is still kept up for the entertainment of children;
while the adult, whom the annals of all countries has made familiar with a long record of monarchs,
bad as well as good, is disposed to regard them as beneficial or otherwise to a country according
to the character and conduct of the occupant of the throne, and to believe that they are at
least as liable to produce examples of vice and hypocrisy as of virtue and honesty.

The court of the German Emperor in this connexion need not fear comparison with any court described
in history. True, courts all over the world have improved wonderfully of recent years. Their
monarchs are more enlightened, they are frequented by a very different type of man and woman
from the courts of former times, their morale and working are more closely scrutinized and
more generally subjected to criticism, and they are occupied with a more public and less selfish
order of considerations. The Court of the Emperor is, so far as can be known to a lynx-eyed
and not always charitably thinking public, singularly free from the vices and failings the
atmosphere of former courts was wont to foster. There is at all times, no doubt, the competition
of politicians for influence and power acting and reacting on the Court and its frequenters,
but of scandal at the Court of Berlin there has been none that could be fairly said to involve
the Emperor or his family. Dame Gossip, of course, busied herself with the Emperor in his youth,
but whatever truth she then uttered--and it is probably extremely little--on this head, there
is no question that from the day he mounted the throne his Court and that of the Empress has
been a model for all institutions of the kind.

The life of courts, the personages who play leading parts in them, their wealth and luxury,
and the currents of social, amorous, and political intrigue which are supposed to course through
them have in all countries and in all ages strongly appealed to writers, fanciful and serious.
Perhaps one-third of the prose and poetic literature of every country deals, directly or indirectly,
with the subject, and determines in no small degree the character of its rising generations.
The great architects of romance, depicting for us life in high places, and often nobly idealizing
it, or working the facts of history into the web of their imaginings and thus pleasantly combining
fact with fiction, aim at elevating, not at debasing, the mind of the reader. A second valuable
source of information on the topic are the memoirs of those who have set down their observations
and recorded experiences made in the courts to which they had access. Among this class, however,
are to be found unscrupulous as well as conscientious authors, the former obviously cherishing
some personal grievance or as obviously actuated by malice, while the latter are usually moved
by an honest desire to tell the world things that are important for it to know, and at the
same time, it is not ill-natured to suspect, enhance their own reputation with their contemporaries
or with posterity. The multitudinous tribe of anecdote inventors and retailers must also be
taken into account. In our own day there is still another source of information, which, agreeably
or odiously according to the temperament of the reader, keeps us in touch with courts and what
goes on there--the periodical press; while afar off in the future one can imagine the historian
bent over his desk, surrounded by books and knee-deep in newspapers, selecting and weighing
events, studying characters, developing personalities, and passing what he hopes may be a final
judgment on the court and period he is considering.

For a study of the Emperor's life, as it passes in his Court, a large number of works are available,
but not many that can be described as authoritative or reliable. Among the latter, however,
may be placed Moritz Busch's "Bismarck: Some Secret Pages of His History," three volumes that
make Busch almost as interesting to the reader as his subject; Bismarck's own "Gedanke und
Erinnerungen," which is chiefly of a political nature; and the "Memorabilia of Prince Chlodwig
Hohenlohe-Schillingsfürst," who was for several years Statthalter of Alsace-Lorraine and subsequently
became Imperial Chancellor in succession to General von Caprivi. These works, with the collections
of the Emperor's speeches and the speeches and interviews of Chancellor Prince von Bülow, may
be ranked in the category of serious and authentic contributions to the Court history of the
period they cover. Then there are several German descriptions of the Court, reliable enough
in their way which is a dull one, to those who are not impassioned monarchists or hide-bound
bureaucrats. In the category of works by unscrupulous writers that entitled "The Private Lives
of William II and His Consort," by a lady-in-waiting to the Empress from 1888 to 1898, easily
takes first place. Certainly it gives a lively and often entertaining insight into the domestic
life of the palace, but it is so clearly informed by spite that it is impossible to distinguish
what is true in it from what is false or misrepresented. Finally, for the closer study of individual
events and the impressions they made at the time of their happening, the daily press can be
consulted. For the Bismarck period the biography of Hans Blum is of exceptional value.

What may be termed the anecdotic literature of the Court is particularly rich and trivial,
and this is only to be expected in a country where the monarchy and its representative are
so forcibly and constantly brought home to the people's consciousness. Yet it has its uses,
and is referred to, though sparingly, in the present work. "The Emperor as Father of a Family,"
"The Emperor and His Daughter's Uniform," "The Amiable Grandfather," "The Emperor as Husband,"
"The Emperor as Card Player," "How the Emperor's Family is Photographed," "What does the Emperor's
Kitchen Look Like," "Adieu, Auguste" ("Auguste" is the Empress), "The English Lord and the
Emperor's Cigarettes," "When My Wife Makes You a Sandwich," "What the Emperor Reads," "The
Emperor's Handwriting," "Can the Emperor Vote?" (the answer is, opinions differ), "Washing
Day at the Emperor's," "The Emperor and the Empress at Tennis," "Emperor and Auto," are the
sort of matters dealt with. Literature of this kind is beyond question intensely interesting
to vast numbers of people, but helps very little towards understanding a singularly complex
human being placed in a high and extraordinarily responsible position.

Strictly speaking, there is no Imperial Court in Germany, since the King of Prussia, in accordance
with the Imperial Constitution, always succeeds to the imperial throne, and therefore officially
the Court is that of the King of Prussia only. The distinction is emphasized by the fact that
the Court is independent of the Empire as regards its administration and finance. It is a state
within a state, an imperium in imperio. In all that pertains to it the Emperor is absolute
ruler and his executive is a special Ministry. At the same time it is almost needless to add
that the Court of Berlin is practically that of the Empire. It is this character, apart from
Prussia's size and importance, that distinguishes it from other courts in Germany and reduces
them to comparative insignificance in foreign, though by no means in German, consideration.

The Court of the Empire and Prussia--and the same thing may be said of the various other courts
in Germany--engages popular interest and attention to a much larger extent than is the case
in England. The fact is almost wholly due to the nature of the monarchy and of its relations
to the people. In England a great portion of the popular attention is concentrated on Parliament
and the fortunes of its two great political parties. The attention given to the Court and its
doings is not of the same general and permanent character, but is intermittent according to
the occasion. The Englishman feels deep and abiding popular interest at all times in Parliament,
whether in session or not, because it represents the people and is, in fact, and for hundreds
of years has been, the Government.

The reverse may fairly be said to be the case in Germany. In Germany popular attention has
been from early times concentrated on the monarch, his personality, sayings and doings, since
in his hands lay government power and patronage. Monarchy of a more or less absolute character
was accepted by the people, not only in Germany but all over the Continent, as the normal and
desirable, perhaps the inevitable, state of things; and it is only since the French Revolution
that parliaments after the English pattern, that is by two chambers elected by popular vote,
yet in many important respects widely differing from it, were demanded by the people or finally
established. Up to comparatively recent times the monarch in Prussia was an absolute ruler.
Frederick William IV, after the events of 1848, was compelled to grant Prussia a Constitution
which explicitly defined the respective rights of the Crown and the people in the sphere of
politics; and the Imperial Constitution, drawn up on the formation of the modern Empire, did
the same thing as regards the Emperor and the people of the Empire; but neither Constitution
altered the nature of the monarchy in the direction of giving governing power to the people.
Both secured the people legislative, but not governing power. Government in the Empire and
Prussia remains, as of old, an appanage, so to speak, of the Court, and the fact of course
tends to concentrate attention on the Court.

It has been said that the Court is a state within a state, an imperium in imperio. In this
state, within Prussia or within the Empire, it is the same thing for our purpose, there are
two main departments, that of the Lord Chamberlain (Oberstkammeramt) and that of the Master
of the Household (Ministerium des Königlichen Hauses). The first deals with all questions of
court etiquette, court ceremonial, court mourning, precedence, superintendence of the courts
of the Emperor's sons and near relatives, and of all Prussian court offices. The second deals
with the personal affairs of the Emperor and his sons, the domestic administration of the palace,
the management of the Crown estates and castles, and is the tribunal that decides all Hohenzollern
differences and disputes that are not subject to the ordinary legal tribunals. Connected with
this Ministry are the Herald's office and the Court Archives office. The chief Court officials
include, beside the Lord Chamberlain and the Master of the Household, a Chief Court Marshal.
The Master of the Household is also Chief Master of Ceremonies, with a Deputy Master of Ceremonies
who is also Introducer of Ambassadors, two Court Marshals, a Captain of the Palace Guards,
a Court Chaplain, Court Physician, an Intendant in charge of the royal theatres, a Master of
the Horse who has charge of the royal stables, a House Marshal, and a Master of the Kitchen.
All these officials are princes (Fürst) or counts (Graf), with the title Highness (Durchlaucht)
or Excellency.

Court officials also include the various nobles in charge of the royal palaces, castles, and
hunting lodges at Potsdam, Charlottenburg, Breslau, Stettin, Marienburg, Posen, Letzlingen,
Hohkönigsberg, Homberg von der Höhe, Springe, Hubertusstock, Rominten, Korfu (the "Achilleion"),
Wiesbaden, Koenigsberg, etc., to the number of thirty or more. The Empress has her own Court
officials, including a Mistress of the Robes and Ladies of the Bedchamber, also with the title
of Excellency, the Ladies being chosen from the most aristocratic families of Germany. The
Empress has her own Master of the Household, physician, treasurer, and so on. Similarly with
the households of the Crown Prince, other royal princes and the Emperor's near relatives.

Every order the Emperor gives that is not of a purely domestic kind passes through one of his
three cabinets--the Civil Cabinet, the Military Cabinet, or the Marine Cabinet. The cost of
the first, with its chief, who receives £1,000 a year, and half a dozen subordinate officials
on salaries of £200 to £350, is budgeted at about £10,000 a year. The Military Cabinet is a
much larger establishment, having several departments and a staff of half a hundred councillors
and clerks. The Naval Cabinet, on the other hand, is composed of only three upper officials
and five clerks. The Emperor's "civil list" is returned in the Budget as £860,000 roughly.
His entire annual revenue does not exceed £1,000,000. Out of this he has to pay the expenses
of his married sons' households and make large contributions to public charities. He was left,
however, a very considerable sum of money by the Emperor William. The Crown Prince, as such,
receives a grant of £20,000 a year, chiefly derived from the royal domain of Oels in Silesia.
Like all fathers of large families, the Emperor has been more than once heard to complain that
he finds it difficult to make both ends meet.

The Emperor's staff of adjutants are exceptionally useful and important people. At their head
is the chief of the Emperor's Military Cabinet. Not less important are the members of the Emperor's
Marine Cabinet, consisting of admirals, vice-admirals, and wing-admirals. The personal adjutants
divide the day and night service between them, so that there may always be three adjutants
at the Emperor's immediate disposal. The adjutant announces Ministers or other visitors to
the Emperor, telegraphs to say that His Majesty has an hour or an hour and a half at his disposal
at such-and-such a time, or intimates that an audience of half an hour can be given in the
train between two given points. They act as living memorandum books, knock at the Emperor's
door to announce that it is time for him to go to this or that appointment, remind him that
a congratulatory telegram on some one's seventieth birthday or other jubilee has to be sent,
or perhaps whispers that Her Majesty the Empress wishes to see him. All the Emperor's correspondence
passes through their hands. They accompany the Emperor on his journeys and voyages, and when
thus employed are usually invited to his table. The Emperor reads of some new book and tells
an adjutant to order it, and the latter does so by communicating with the Civil Cabinet.

Court society in Berlin includes the German "higher" and "lower" nobility, with the exception
of the so-called Fronde, who proudly absent themselves from it; the Ministers; the diplomatic
corps; Court officials; and such members of the burghertum, or middle class, as hold offices
which entitle them to attend court. The wives, however, of those in the last category are not
"court-capable" on this account, nor is the middle class generally, nor even members of the
Imperial or Prussian Parliaments as such. Members of Parliament are invited to the Court's
seasonal festivities, but as a rule only members of the Conservative parties or other supporters
of the Government. The nobility, as in England, is hereditary or only nominated for life, and
the hereditary nobility is divided into an upper and lower class. To the former belongs members
of houses that were ruling when the modern Empire was established, and, while excluding the
Emperor, who stands above them, includes sovereign houses and mediatized houses. Some of the
ancient privileges of the nobility, such as exemption from taxation, and the right to certain
high offices, have been abolished, but in practice the nobility still occupy the most important
charges in the administration and in the army. The privileges of the mediatized princes consist
of exemption from conscription, the enjoyment of the Principle called "equality of birth,"
which prevents the burgher wife of a noble acquiring her husband's rank, and the right to have
their own "house law" for the regulation of family disputes and family affairs generally. No
increase to the high nobility of Germany can accrue as no addition will ever be made to the
once sovereign and mediatized families. With the exception of these houses the rest of the
German nobility, hereditary and non-hereditary, is accounted as belonging to the lower nobility.
That part of the German aristocracy who refuse to go to court, and are accordingly called by
the name Fronde, first given to the opponents of Cardinal Mazarin, in the reign of Louis XIV,
consist chiefly of a few old families of Prussian Poland, Hannover (the Guelphs), Brunswick,
Nassau, Hessen, and other annexed German territories, and of some great Catholic houses in
Bavaria and the Rhineland. Their dislike is directed not so much against the Empire as against
Prussia. The Kulturkampf had the effect of setting a small number of ancient Prussian ultramontane
families against the Government.

Not much that is complimentary can be said of the German aristocracy as a whole. "Serenissimus"
is to-day as frequently the subject of bitter, if often humorous, caricature in the comic press
as ever he was. A few of the class, like Prince Fürstenberg, Prince Hohenlohe, Count Henkel-Donnersmarck
and some others engage successfully in commerce; many are practical farmers and have done a
good deal for agriculture; several are deputies to Parliament; but on the whole the foreigner
gets the impression that the class as such contributes but a small percentage of what it might
and should in the way of brains, industry, or example to the welfare and the progress of the
Empire.

It is difficult to communicate an impression of the Court, whether at the Schloss in Berlin
or the New Palace in Potsdam, and at the same time avoid the dry and dusty descriptions of
the guide-books. If the reader is not in Berlin, let him imagine the fragment of a mediæval
town, situated on a river and fronted by a bridge; and on the bank of the river a dark, square,
massive and weather-stained pile of four stories, with barred windows on the ground floor as
defence against a possibly angry populace, and a sentry-box at each of its two lofty wrought-iron
gates. It may be, as Baedeker informs us it is, a "handsome example of the German renaissance,"
but to the foreigner it can as equally suggest a large and grimy barracks as the five-hundred-years-old
palace of a long line of kings and emperors. And yet, to any one acquainted with the blood-stained
annals of Prussian history, who knows something of the massive stone buildings about it and
of the people who have inhabited them, who strolls through its interior divided into sombre
squares, each with its cold and bare parade-ground, who reflects on the relations between king
and people, closely identified by their historical associations, yet sundered by the feudal
spirit which still keeps the Crown at a distance from the crowd, above all to the German versed
in his country's story--how eloquently it speaks!

When one thinks of the Court of Berlin one should not forget that the New Palace, the Emperor's
residence at Potsdam, sixteen miles distant from the capital, is as much, and as important,
a part of it as the royal palace in Berlin itself. The Emperor divides his time between them,
the former, when he is not travelling, being his more permanent residence, and the latter only
claiming his presence during the winter season and for periods of a day or so at other parts
of the year, when occasion requires it. It is only during the six or eight weeks of the winter
season that the Empress and her daughter, Princess Victoria Louise (now Duchess of Brunswick),
go into residence at the Berlin royal palace. There is a railway between Potsdam and Berlin,
but since the introduction of the motor-car the Emperor almost always uses that means of conveyance
for the half-hour's run between his Berlin and Potsdam palaces.

The other section of the Court, if Potsdam may be so described, is hardly less rich in memories
than the old palace by the Spree. Indeed it is richer from the cosmopolitan point of view,
for though Frederick the Great was born in the Berlin Schloss and spent some of his time there,
it was at Potsdam that, when not campaigning, he may be said to have lived and died. To this
day, for the foreigner, his personality still pervades the place, and that of the Emperor sinks,
comparatively, into the background. The tourist who has pored over his Baedeker will learn
that Potsdam has 53,000 inhabitants and is "charmingly situated"--it depends on your temperament
what the charm is, and to guide-book framers all tourists have the same temperament--on an
island in the Havel "which here expands into a series of lakes bounded by wooded hills." He
will learn that the old town-palace, which few visitors give a thought to, was built by the
Great Elector, that Frederick the Great lived here in "richly decorated apartments with sumptuous
furniture and noteworthy pictures by Pater, Lancret, and Pesne"; that it contains a cabinet
in which the dining-table could be let up and down by means of a trap-door, and "where the
King occasionally dined with friends without risk of being overheard by his attendants"; that
the present Emperor, then Prince William, lived here with his young wife when he was still
only a lieutenant. He will drive to the New Palace--now old, for it was built by Frederick
the Great in 1769, during the Seven Years' War, at a cost of nearly half a million sterling--and
gaze with interest at the summer residence of the Emperor. If he is an American he may think
of his multi-millionaire fellow-citizen, Cornelius Vanderbilt, who, when driving up to call
on his erstwhile imperial schoolfellow and friend, was nearly shot at by a sentry for whom
the name Vanderbilt was no "Open Sesame." He will see before him a main building, seven hundred
feet in length, three stories high, with the central portion surmounted by a dome, its chief
façade looking towards a park. The whole, of course--for Baedeker is talking--forms an "imposing
pile," with "mediocre sculptures, but the effect of the weathered sandstone figures against
the red brick is very pleasing." Here the Emperor's father, Frederick III, was born, lived
as Crown Prince, reigned for ninety-nine days, and died. Here, too, are more "apartments of
Frederick the Great," with pictures by Rubens, including an "Adoration of the Magi," a good
example of Watteau and a portrait of Voltaire drawn by Frederick's own hand. In the north wing
are situated the present Emperor's suite of chambers, where distinguished men of all countries
have discussed almost every conceivable topic, political, social, religious, martial, artistic,
financial, and commercial, with one of the most interesting talkers of his time. No bloody
tragedy has defiled the palace, as did the murder of Lord Darnley at Holyrood, that of the
Duke of Guise (Sir Walter Scott's "Le Balafré") the chateau of Blois, the execution of the
Bourbon Duc d'Enghien the palace of Vincennes, or the murder of the boy princes the Tower of
London. But bloodless tragedy, and exquisite comedy, and farce too, have doubtless had their
hour within the walls. One such incident of the politico-tragic kind was that which passed
only two years ago between the Emperor and his Imperial Chancellor, when Prince von Bülow went
as deputy from the Federal Council, the Parliament, and the people to pray the Emperor to exercise
more caution in his public, or semi-public statements; and the historian may possibly find
another, and not without its touch of comedy, in the reception by the Emperor of the Chinese
prince, who headed the "mission of atonement" for the murder of the Emperor's Minister in Pekin
during the Boxer troubles.

From the New Palace our foreigner will probably drive to the Marble Palace, which (for Baedeker
is ever at one's elbow with the facts) he will mark was built in 1796 by Frederick William
II, who died here, was completed in 1845 by Frederick William IV, and was the residence of
the present Emperor at the time of his accession.

But while our foreigner has been hurrying from one palace to another, with his mind in a fog
of historical and topographical confusion--if he is an American, half-hoping, half-expecting
to meet the Emperor or Empress and secure a bow from one or other, or--why not?--one of William's
well-known vigorous poignées de main, there is always one thought predominant in his mind--Sans
Souci. That is the real object of his quest, the main attraction that has brought him, all
unconscious of it, to Berlin, and not the laudable, but wholly mistaken efforts of the "Society
for the Promotion of Tourist Traffic," which seeks to lure the moneyed and reluctant foreigner
to the German capital. Our foreigner enters the Park of Sans Souci and his spirit is at rest.
Now he knows where he really is--not in the wonderful new German Empire, not in modern Berlin
with its splendid and to him unspeaking streets, its garish "night-life," its faultily-faultless
municipal propriety, not in Potsdam, "the true cradle of the Prussian army," as Baedeker, deviating
for an instant into metaphor, describes it, but simply in Sans Souci. He is now no longer in
the twentieth century, but the eighteenth--one hundred and fifty years ago or more--in Frederick's
day, the period of pigtails, of giant grenadiers in the old-time blue and red coats, the high
and fantastic shako made of metal and tapering to a point, of three-cornered hats resting on
powdered wigs, of yellow top-boots, and exhaling the general air of ruffianly geniality characteristic
of the manners and soldiers of the age.

As our foreigner advances through the park, where, as he is told, the Emperor makes a promenade
each Christmas Eve distributing ten-mark pieces (spiteful chroniclers make it three marks)
to all and sundry poor, he will notice the fountain "the water of which rises to a height of
130 feet," with its twelve figures by French artists of the eighteenth century, and ascend
the broad terraced flight of marble steps up which the present Crown Prince is credited with
once urging his trembling steed--leading to the Mecca of his imagination, the palace Sans Souci
itself. The building is only one story high, not large, reminding one somewhat of the Trianon
at Versailles, though lacking the Trianon's finished lightness and elegance, yet with its semicircular
colonnade distinctly French, and impressive by its elevated situation. The chief, the enduring,
the magical impression, however, begins to form as our foreigner commences his pilgrimage through
the rooms in which Frederick passed most of his later years. As he pauses in the Voltaire Chamber
he imagines the two great figures, seated in stiff-backed chairs at a little table on which
stand, perhaps, a pair of cut Venetian wine-glasses and a tall bottle of old Rheinish--the
great man of thought and the great man of action, the two great atheists and freethinkers of
Europe, with their earnest, sharply featured faces, and their wigs bobbing at each other, discussing
the events and tendencies of their time. And how they must have talked--no wonder Frederick,
though the idol of his subjects, withdrew for such discourse from the society of the day, with
its twaddle of the tea-cups and its parade-ground platitudes.

As in our own time, there was then no lack of stimulating topics. The influence of the old
Catholicism and the old feudalism was rapidly diminishing, the night of superstition was passing,
and the age of reason, that was to culminate with such tremendous and horrible force in the
French Revolution, was beginning to dawn. The encyclopaedists, with Diderot and d'Alembert
in the van, were holding council in France, mobilizing the intellects of the time, and, like
Bacon, taking all knowledge for their province, for a fierce attack on the old philosophy,
the old statecraft, the old art, and the old religion. Are such topics and such men to deal
with them to be found to-day, or have all the great problems of humanity and its intellect
been started, studied, and resolved? And are motor-cars, aeroplanes, dances, Dreadnoughts,
millinery, rag-time reviews, auction bridge, the rise and fall of stocks, and the last extraordinary
round of golf, all that is left for the present generation to discuss?

However, the guardian of the palace has moved on, the other members of the party are getting
bored, and our foreigner follows the guardian's lead. Thus conducted, he passes through half
a dozen rooms, each a museum of historical associations--the dining-room with its round table
made famous by Menzel's picture (now in the Berlin National Gallery) in which Frederick and
his guests are seen seated, but in which it is difficult if not impossible to be certain which
is the host; the concert-room with the clock which Frederick was in the habit of winding up,
and which "is said to have stopped at the precise moment of his death, 2.20 a.m., August 17th,
1786"; the death-chamber with its eloquent and pathetic statue, Magnussen's "Last Moments of
Frederick the Great"; the library and picture gallery. Strangely enough, Baedeker has no mention
of a female subject portrayed in the concert-room in all sorts of attitudes and in all sorts
and no sort of costume. Yet every one has heard of La Barberini, the only woman, the chroniclers
(and Voltaire among them) assure us, Frederick ever loved. She was no woman of birth or wit
like the Pompadour, Récamier or Staël, but of merely ordinary understanding and the wife of
a subordinate official of the Court. She charmed Frederick, however, and may have loved him.
If so, let us remember that the morals of those days were not those of ours, and not grudge
the lonely King his enjoyment of her beauty and amiability.

One thing only remains for our foreigner to see--the coffin of Frederick in the old Garrison
Church. It lies in a small chamber behind the pulpit and looks more like the strong box of
a miser than the last resting-place of a great king. For such a man it seems poor and mean,
but probably Frederick himself did not wish for better. He must have known that his real monument
would be his reputation with posterity. In fact the chroniclers agree, and the noble statue
of Magnussen confirms the impression, that at the close of his stormy life he was glad finally
to be at rest anywhere. "Quand je serai là," he was wont to say, pointing to where his dogs
were buried in the palace park, "je serai sans souci."

In every court there is a disposition on the part of courtiers to agree with everything the
monarch says, to flatter him as dexterously as they can, to minister to princely vanity, if
vanity there be, to "crawl on their bellies," in the choice language of hostile court critics,
or "wag their tails" and double up their bodies at every bow; show, in short, in different
ways, often all unconsciously, the presence of a servile and self-interested mind. The disposition
is not to be found in courts alone. It is one of the commonest and most malignant qualities
of humanity, and can any day and at any hour be observed in action in any Ministry of State,
any mercantile office, any great warehouse, any public institution, in every scene, in fact,
where one or many men are dependent for their living on the favour or caprice of another. On
the other hand, let it not be forgotten that this innate tendency of human nature is at times
replaced by another which has frequently the same outward manifestations, but is not the same
feeling, the sentiment, namely, of embarrassment arising from the fear of being servile, and
the equally frequent embarrassment arising from that principle which is always at work in the
mind, the association of ideas, which in the case of a monarch presents him to the ordinary
mortal as embodying ideas of grandeur, power, might, and intellect to which the latter is unaccustomed.
Education, economic changes, and the art of manners have done much to conceal, if not eradicate,
human proneness to servility, and the Byzantinism of the time of Caligula and Nero, of Tiberius,
Constantine, or Nikiphoros, of the Stuarts and the Bourbons, has long been modified into respect
for oneself as well as for the person one addresses. There are, however, still traces of the
old evil in the German atmosphere, and in especial a tendency among officials of all grades
to be humble and submissive to those above them and haughty and domineering to those below
them. The tendency is perhaps not confined to Germany, but it seems, to the inhabitant of countries
where bureaucracy is not a powerful caste, to penetrate German society and ordinary life to
a greater degree--yet not to a great degree--than in more democratic societies.

The Emperor naturally knows nothing of such a thing, for there is no one superior to him in
the Empire in point of rank, and he is much too modern, too well educated, and of too kindly
and liberal a nature to encourage or permit Byzantinism towards him on the part of others.
Indeed Byzantinism was never a Hohenzollern failing. In his able work on German civilization
Professor Richard tells of some Silesian peasants who knelt down when presenting a petition
to Frederick William I, and were promptly told to get up, as "such an attitude was unworthy
of a human being." Only on one occasion in the reign has an action of the Emperor's afforded
ground for the suspicion that he was for a moment filled with the spirit of the Byzantine emperors--namely,
when he demanded the "kotow" from the Chinese Prince Tschun, who led the "mission of atonement"
to Germany. This, however, was not really the result of a Byzantine character or spirit, but
of the excusable anger of a man whose innocent representative had been treacherously killed.

Of affinity with the idea of Byzantinism is that as frequently occurring idea in German court
and ordinary life conveyed by the word "reaction." Here again we have one of those qualities
to be found among mankind everywhere and always: the instinct opposed to change, even to those
changes for the good we call progress, the disposition that made Horace deride the laudator
temporis acti se puero of his day, the feeling of the man who laments the passing of the "good
old times" and the military veteran who assures us that "the country, sir, is going to the
dogs." In political life such men are usually to be found professing conservatism, owners of
land, dearer to them often than life itself, which they fear political change will damage or
diminish. In Germany the Conservative forces are the old agrarian aristocracy, the military
nobility, and the official hierarchy, who make a worship of tradition, hold for the most part
the tenets of orthodox Protestantism, dread the growing influence of industrialism, and are
members of the Landlords' Association: types of a dying feudalism, disposed to believe nothing
advantageous to the community if it conflicts with any privilege of their class. Under the
name of Junker, the Conservative landowners of the region of Prussia east of the Elbe, they
have become everywhere a byword for pride, selfishness, in a word--reaction. They and men of
their kidney are to be distinguished from the German "people" in the English sense, and hold
themselves vastly superior to the burghertum, the vast middle class. They dislike the "academic
freedom" of the university professor, would limit the liberty of the press and restrain the
right of public meeting, and increase rather than curtail the powers of the police. On the
other hand, if they are a powerful drag on the Emperor's Liberal tendencies--Liberal, that
is, in the Prussian sense--towards a comprehensive and well-organized social policy, they are
at least reliable supporters of his Government for the military and naval budgets, since they
believe as whole-heartedly in the rule of force as the Emperor himself. The German Conservative
would infinitely prefer a return to absolute government to the introduction of parliamentary
government. At the same time it should not be supposed that the Emperor or his Chancellor,
or even his Court, are reactionary in the sense or measure in which the Socialist papers are
wont to assert. It is doubtful if nowadays the Emperor would venture to be reactionary in any
despotic way. Given that his monarchy and the spirit that informs it are secure, that Caesar
gets all that is due to Caesar, and that he and his Government are left the direction of foreign
policy, he is quite willing that the people should legislate for themselves, enjoy all the
rights that belong to them under the Rechtsstaat established by Frederick the Great, and, in
short, enjoy life as best they can.

VII.

"DROPPING THE PILOT"

Heinrich von Treitschke, the German historian, writing to a friend, speaks of the dismissal
of Prince Bismarck as "an indelible stain on Prussian history and a tragic stroke of fate the
like of which the world has never seen since the days of Themistocles."

Opinions may differ as to the indelibility of the stain--which must be taken as a reflection
on the conduct of the Emperor; and parallels might perhaps be found, at least by students of
English history, in the dismissal of Cardinal Wolsey by Henry VIII, or that of the elder Pitt
by George III. But there may well be general agreement as to the tragic nature of the fall,
for it was a struggle between a strong personality and the unknown, but irresistible, laws of fate.

The historic quarrel between the Emperor and his Chancellor was not merely the inevitable clash
between two dispositions fundamentally different, but between--to adapt the expression of a
modern poet--"an age that was dying and one that was coming to birth." Old Prussia was giving
place to New Germany. The atmosphere of war had changed to an atmosphere of peace. The standards
of education and comfort were rising fast. The old German idealism was being pushed aside by
materialism and commercialism, and the thoughts of the nation were turning from problems of
philosophy and art to problems of practical science and experiment. Thought was to be followed
by action. Mankind, after conversing with the ancients for centuries, now began to converse
with one another. The desire for national expansion, if it could not be gratified by conquest,
was to be satisfied by the spread of German influence, power, activity, and enterprise in all
parts of the world. Such a collision of the ages is tragedy on the largest scale, for nothing
can be more tragic--more inevitable or inexorable--than the march of Progress.

The natures of the two men were, in important respects, fundamentally different. Bismarck's
nature was prosaic, primitive, unscrupulous, domineering: a type which in an English schoolboy
would be described as a bully, with the modification that while the bully in an English school
is always depicted as a coward at heart (a supposition, however, by no means always borne out
in after-life), Bismarck had the courage of a bull-dog. Moreover, Bismarck was a Conservative,
a statesman of expediency. The Emperor is a man of principle; and as expediency, in a world
of change, is a note of Conservatism, so, in the same world, is principle the leit-motiv of
Liberalism. To call the Emperor a man of principle may appear to be at variance with general
opinion as founded on exceptional occurrences, but these do not supply sufficient material
for a fair judgment, and there are many acts of his reign which show him to be Liberal in disposition.

Not, it need hardly be said, Liberal in the English political sense. Liberalism in England--the
two-party country--usually means a strong desire to vote against a Conservative on the assumption
that the Conservative is nearly always completely wrong and never completely right. As will
be seen later, there is no political Liberalism in the English sense in Germany. The Emperor's
Liberalism shows itself in his sympathy with his people in their desire for improvement as
a society of which he is the head, selected by God and only restricted by a constitutional
compact solemnly sworn to by the contracting parties. Proofs of this sympathy might be adduced--his
determination to carry through his grandfather's social policy against Bismarck's wish, however
hostile he was and is to Social Democracy; his steadfast peace policy, however nearly he has
brought his country to war; his encouragement of the arts among the lower classes, however
limited his views on art may be; his friendly intercourse with people of all nationalities
and occupations.

The characters also of the two men were different. Bismarck's was the result of civilian training;
the Emperor's of military training. Bismarck had small regard for manners, and would have scoffed
had anyone told him "manners makyth man"; the Emperor is courtesy itself, as every one who
meets him testifies. Bismarck was fond of eating and drinking, with the appetite of a horse
and the thirst of a drayman, until he was nearly eighty, and smoked strong cigars from morning
to night--a very pleasant thing, of course, if you can stand it. The Emperor has never cared
particularly for what are called the pleasures of the table, is fond of apples and one or two
simple German dishes, and has never been what in Germany is called a "chain-smoker." Bismarck
appears not to have had the faintest interest in art; the Emperor, while of late disclaiming
in all art company his lack of expert knowledge, has always found delight in art's most classical
forms.

Yet the two men had some deeply marked traits of character in common. The Emperor, as was Bismarck,
is Prussian, that is to say mediaeval, to the core, notwithstanding that he had an English
mother and lived in early childhood under English influences. He has always exhibited, as Bismarck
always did, the genuine qualities of the Prussian--self-confidence, tenacity of purpose, absolute
trust in his own ideals and intolerance of those of other people, impatience of rivalry, selfishness
for the advantage of Prussia as against other German States, as strong as that for the newly
born Empire against other countries. Finally, the Emperor is convinced, as Bismarck was convinced,
that in the first and last resort, a society, a people, a nation, is based on force and by
force alone can prosper, or even be held together. Neither Bismarck nor the Emperor could ever
sympathize with those who look to a time when one strong and sensible policeman will be of
more value to a community than a thousand unproductive soldiers.

Long before he became Imperial Chancellor Bismarck had done masterly and important work for
the country. In 1862 he began his career by filling the post of interim Minister President
of Prussia at a time when the present Emperor was still an infant. It was on taking up the
position that he made the celebrated statement that "great questions cannot be decided by speeches
and majority-votes, but must be resolved by blood and iron." Born in April, 1815, two months
before the battle of Waterloo, at Schoenhausen, in the Prussian Province of Saxony, not far
from Magdeburg, he studied at the universities of Gottingen and Berlin and passed two steps
of the official ladder--Auscultator and Referendar--which may be translated respectively protocolist
and junior counsel. His parliamentary career began in 1846, two years before the second French
Revolution. At that time Prussia was an absolute monarchy, without a Constitution or a Parliament.
There was no conscription, that foundation-stone of Prussian power and of the modern German
Empire. Then came the agitated days of 1848, the sanguinary "March Days" in Berlin. Frederick
William IV was on the throne, and in 1847 permitted the calling of a Parliament, the forerunner
of the present Reichstag; but only to represent the "rights," not the "opinions," of the people.
"No piece of paper," cried the King, "shall come, like a second Providence, between God in
heaven and this land!" That, too, was Bismarck's sentiment, courageously expressed by him when
the Diet was debating the idea of introducing the English parliamentary system, and proved
by him in character and conduct until the day of his death. He would have made a splendid Jacobite!

The three "March Days," the 18th, 19th, and 20th of March, 1848, form one of the few occasions
in Prussian or German history on which Crown and people came into direct and serious conflict.
According to German accounts of the episode the outbreak of the revolution in France was followed
by a large influx into Berlin of Poles and Frenchmen, who instigated the populace to violence.
Collisions with the police occurred, and on March 15th barricades began to be erected. Traffic
in the streets was only possible with the aid of the military. The King was in despair, not
so much, the accounts say, at the danger he was in of losing his throne as at the shedding
of the blood of his folk, and issued a proclamation promising to grant all desirable reforms,
abolishing the censorship of the press, and summoning the Diet to discuss the terms of a Constitution.
The citizens, however, continued to build barricades, made their way into the courtyards of
the palace, and demanded the withdrawal of the troops. The King ordered the courtyards to be
cleared, the palace guard advanced, and, either by accident or design, the guns of two grenadiers
went off. No one was hit, but cries of "Treason!" and "Murder!" were raised. Within an hour
a score of barricades were set up in various parts of the town and manned by a medley of workmen,
university students, artists, and even men of the Landwehr, or military reserve.

At this time there were about 14,000 troops at the King's disposal, and with these the authorities
proceeded against the mob. A series of scattered engagements between mob and military began.
They lasted for eight hours, until at midnight General von Prittwitz, who was in command of
the troops, was able to report to the King that the revolution was subdued.

Next morning, however, the 19th, numerous deputations of citizens presented themselves at the
palace, and assuring the King that it was the only means of preventing the further effusion
of blood, renewed the request for the withdrawal of the troops. The King consented, notwithstanding
the opposition of Prince, afterwards Emperor, William, and the troops were drawn off to Potsdam.
The citizens thereupon appointed a National Guard, which took charge of the palace, and in
the evening a vast crowd appeared beneath the King's windows bearing the corpses of those who
had fallen at the barricades during the two preceding days. The dead bodies were laid in rows
in the palace courtyard, and the King was invited out to see them. He could not but obey, and
bowed to the crowd as he stood bareheaded before the bodies.

It is clear from the occurrences in Berlin in 1848 that while the Prussian idea of monarchy
is deeply rooted in the German mind, the possibility of a sudden change in public sentiment
and a radical alteration of the relations between Crown and people are never at any time to
be wholly disregarded. Hence it is that the Emperor and his Government are so insistent on
the doctrine of Heaven-granted sovereignty, so ready to support more or less autocratic monarchies
in other parts of the world, and so sensitive to popular movements like Anarchism and Nihilism
in Russia, or the always-smouldering Polish agitation and the propaganda of the Social Democracy
in Germany. When King Frederick William IV said to his assembled generals at Potsdam a week
after the "March Days," "Never have I felt more free or more secure than when under the protection
of my burghers," his words were drowned in the buzz of murmurs and the angry clanking of swords.
The Emperor to-day might, or might not, endorse the words of his ancestor. Most probably he
would not; for, judging by his speeches, his care for the army, the military state with which
he surrounds himself, and his habitual appearance in uniform, he, though in truth far more
a civil monarch than the War Lord foreign writers delight in painting him, is evidently determined
to rely only on his soldiers for every eventuality at home as well as abroad.

Perhaps the best German authorities on Bismarck's falling-out with the young Emperor are the
statements regarding it to be found in the memoranda supplied at the time by Prince Bismarck
himself to Dr. Moritz Busch; the Memoirs of Prince Hohenlohe-Schillingsfürst, subsequently
Imperial Chancellor; and the monograph on Bismarck by Dr. Hans Blum, one of the Chancellor's
confidants. The memoranda supplied to Busch make regrettably few references to the subject,
beyond giving the terms of the official resignation and some scanty addenda thereto; but enough
is said generally by Busch concerning Bismarck's conversations to show that the Chancellor
was deeply mortified by his dismissal. Bismarck indeed expressly denies this in a conversational
statement quoted by an able Bismarckian writer of our own time, Dr. Paul Liman; but in view
of subsequent events and statements the denial can hardly be taken as sincere. The passage
referred to is as follows:--

     "I bear no grudge against my young master, who is fiery and
     lively. He wishes to make all men happy, and that is very
     natural at his age. I, for my part, believe perhaps less in
     this possibility, and have told him so too. It is very
     natural that a mentor like myself does not please him, and
     that he therefore rejects my advice. An old carthorse and a
     young courser go ill in harness together. Only politics are
     not so easy as a chemical combination: they deal with human
     beings. I wish certainly that his experiments may succeed,
     and am not in the least angry with him. I stand towards him
     like a father whom a son has grieved; the father may suffer
     thereby, but all the same he says to himself, 'He is a fine
     young fellow.' When I was young I followed my King
     everywhere: now that I am old I can no longer accompany my
     master when he travels so far. Accordingly it is unavoidable
     that counsellors who remained closer to him should win his
     confidence at my expense. He is very easily influenced when
     one puts before him ideas which he supposes will happily
     affect the condition of the people, and he can hardly wait
     to put them into operation. The Kaiser will achieve
     reputation at once: I have my own to watch over, to defend.
     I have sacrificed myself for renown and will not place it in
     jeopardy."

Prince Hohenlohe's Memoirs are much more valuable in respect of positive information, and especially
in supplying an account of the incident taken from the lips of the Emperor himself. The Prince
was without his great predecessor's ability, but was much more amiable and sincere. He was,
moreover, a friend of both the parties concerned, and he impartially jotted down events at
the time they occurred. Lastly, if he was a courtier at heart, he was that not wholly unknown
thing, an honest one. Dr. Hans Blum is obviously a partisan of the great Chancellor's, but
he may also be referred to for a fairly connected account of the fall and the events that succeeded
it up to the time of Bismarck's death on July 30, 1898.

Apart from the differences in the ages and temperaments of the Emperor and the Chancellor,
there were differences in their views as to certain measures of policy. There was a difference
of opinion as to German policy regarding Russia. Friendship with that country had been the
policy of both Emperor William I and Bismarck, and the latter had effected a reinsurance treaty
with Russia, stipulating for Russian neutrality in case of a war between Germany and France,
notwithstanding the subsistence of the Triple Alliance between Germany, Austria, and Italy.
The reinsurance treaty, which had been made for a period of three years, was now about to expire,
and while Bismarck desired its renewal, the Emperor, in a spirit of loyalty to Austria, was
against the renewal, and the treaty was not renewed. This was the "new course" as it regarded
Russia. The difference with regard to the anti-Socialist Laws has been referred to in our chapter
on the accession.

The Royal Order of September, 1852, which has been mentioned as leading immediately to the
resignation, regulated intercourse between the Prussian Ministers and the Crown, its chief
provision being that only the Minister President, and not individual Ministers, should have
audience of the Emperor regarding matters of home and foreign policy. The Emperor desired the
abrogation of the Order, for he wished to consult with the Ministers individually. The text
of Bismarck's official resignation, after describing the origin of the Order, continues:

     "If each individual Minister can receive commands from his
     Sovereign without previous arrangement with his colleagues,
     a coherent policy, for which some one is to be responsible,
     is an impossibility. It would be impossible for any of the
     Ministers, and especially for the Minister President, to
     bear the constitutional responsibility for the Cabinet as a
     whole. Such a provision as that contained in the Order of
     1852 could be dispensed with under the absolute monarchy and
     could also be dispensed with to-day if we returned to
     absolutism without ministerial responsibility. But according
     to the constitutional arrangements now legally in force the
     control of the Cabinet by a President under the Order of
     1852 is indispensable."

The Emperor replied to Prince Bismarck's resignation in a communication which the reader, according
to his disposition, will regard as an effusion of the heart, immensely creditable to its composer,
a model of an official reply as demanded by circumstances, a striking example of the art of
throwing dust in the public eye, or an equally striking contribution to the literature of excusable
hypocrisy. It was as follows:--

     "MY DEAR PRINCE,--With deep emotion I learn from your
     request of the 18th instant that you have decided to retire
     from the offices which you have filled for long years with
     incomparable success. I had hoped not to have been compelled
     to entertain the thought of separation during our lives.
     While, however, in full consciousness of the important
     consequences of your retirement, I am forced to accustom
     myself to the thought. I do so, it is true, with a heavy
     heart, but in the strong confidence that the grant of your
     request will contribute as much as possible to the
     protection and preservation for as long as possible of a
     life and strength of unreplaceable value to the Fatherland.

     "The grounds you offer for your resignation convince me that
     any further attempt to induce you to reconsider your
     determination would have no prospect of success. I
     acquiesce, therefore, in your wish by hereby graciously
     releasing you from your offices as Imperial Chancellor,
     President of my State Ministry, and Minister of Foreign
     Affairs, and trust that your counsels and energy, your
     loyalty and devotion, will not be wanting to me and the
     country in the future also.

     "I have considered it as one of the most valued privileges
     in my life that at the commencement of my reign I had you at
     my side as my first counsellor. What you have done and
     achieved for Prussia and Germany, what you have done for my
     House, my ancestors, and me, will remain to me and the
     German people in grateful and imperishable memory. But also
     in foreign countries your wise and energetic peace policy,
     which I, too, in the future also, as a result of sincere
     conviction, decide to take as the guiding line of my
     conduct, will be always gloriously recognized. It is not in
     my power to requite your services as they deserve. I must
     rest satisfied with assuring you of my own and the country's
     ineffaceable thanks. As a sign of this thanks I confer on
     you the rank of a Duke of Lauenburg. I will also send you a
     life-sized picture of myself.

     "God bless you, my dear Prince, and grant you still many
     years of an old age undisturbed and blessed with the
     consciousness of duty faithfully done.

     "In this disposition I remain to you and yours in the future
     also your sincere, obliged, and grateful Emperor and King,

     "WILLIAM I.R."

The Emperor has never, so far as is publicly known, issued, or caused to be issued, an official
account of the episode and its péripéties, but the story he poured, evidently out of a full
heart, into the ears of Prince Hohenlohe, then Statthalter of Alsace-Lorraine, during a midnight
drive from the railway station at Hagenau to the hunting lodge at Sufflenheim, is an historical
document of practically official authenticity. It appears as follows in the Prince's Memoirs:--

"STRASBURG, 26 April, 1890.

     "On the evening of the 23rd, nine o'clock, I drove with
     Thaden and Moritz to Hagenau, there to await the arrival of
     the Emperor. We spent the evening with circle-officer Klemm.
     I went to bed at eleven o'clock in the guest-room, and slept
     until half-past twelve. Moritz and Thaden drove to the
     station with a view to changing their clothes in the train.
     At one o'clock I was again at the station, when the Emperor
     punctually arrived. I presented the gentlemen to him, and
     turned over General Hahnke to Baron Charpentier and
     Lieutenant Cramer, for them to conduct him to the hunting
     ground. Our journey lasted about an hour, during which the
     Emperor related without a pause the whole story of his
     quarrel with Bismarck. According to this the coolness had
     already begun in December. The Emperor then demanded that
     something should be done about the Working Class Question.
     The Chancellor was against doing anything. The Emperor held
     the view that if the Government did not take the initiative,
     the Reichstag, i.e. the Socialists, Centre and
     Progressives, would take the matter in hand, and then the
     Government would lag behind. The Chancellor wanted to lay
     the anti-Socialist Bill with the expulsion paragraph again
     before the Reichstag, dissolving the chamber if it did not
     accept the Bill, and then, if it came to disturbances, to
     take energetic measures. The Emperor objected, saying that
     if his grandfather, after a long and glorious reign, were
     forced to repress disturbances no one would think ill of
     him. It was different in his case, who had as yet
     accomplished nothing. People would reproach him with
     beginning his reign by shooting down his subjects. He was
     ready to act, but he wished to do it with a good conscience
     after endeavouring to redress the well-founded grievances of
     the workmen, or at least after doing everything to meet
     their justifiable claims.

     "The Emperor therefore demanded at a ministerial conference
     the submission of ministerial edicts which should contain
     what subsequently they in fact did contain. Bismarck would
     not hear of it. The Emperor then laid the question before
     the Council of State, and eventually obtained the edicts in
     spite of Bismarck's opposition. Bismarck, however, secretly
     continued his opposition, and tried to persuade Switzerland
     to persevere with its idea of an International Labour
     Conference. The attempt was rendered nugatory by the loyal
     attitude of the Swiss Minister in Berlin, Roth. At the very
     same time Bismarck was trying to influence the diplomatists
     against the conference.

     "The relations between the Emperor and Bismarck, already
     shaken by these dissensions, were still further embittered
     by the question of the Cabinet Order of 1852. Bismarck had
     often advised the Emperor to summon the Ministers to him.
     This the Emperor did, and as the intercourse became more
     frequent Bismarck took it ill, was jealous, and dragged out
     the Order of 1852 so as to keep Ministers from the Emperor.
     The Emperor resisted and acquired the abrogation of the
     Cabinet Order. Bismarck at first agreed, but gave no further
     sign in the matter. The Emperor now demanded either that the
     recission of the Order should be laid before him, or that
     Bismarck should resign--a demand which the Emperor
     communicated to Bismarck through General von Hahnke. The
     Chancellor delayed, but at length gave in the resignation on
     March 18th. It should be added that already, at the
     beginning of February, Bismarck had told the Emperor that he
     would retire. Afterwards, however, he declared that he had
     thought the position over and would remain--a thing not
     agreeable to the Emperor, though he made no remonstrance
     until the affair of the Cabinet Order came in addition. The
     visit of Windthorst to the Chancellor also gave rise to
     unpleasantness, though it was not the deciding factor. In
     any case the last three weeks were filled with disagreeable
     conversations between the Emperor and the Chancellor. It
     was, as the Emperor expressed it, a 'devil of a time,' and
     the question was, as the Emperor himself said, whether the
     dynasty Bismarck or the dynasty Hohenzollern should reign.
     The Emperor spoke very angrily, too, about the article in
     the Hamburg News. In foreign policy Bismarck, according to
     the Emperor, went his own way, and kept back from the
     Emperor much of what he did. 'Yes,' he said, 'Bismarck had
     it conveyed to St. Petersburg that I wanted to adopt an
     anti-Russian policy. But for that,' the Emperor added, 'he
     had no proofs.'

     "This conversation," concludes Prince Hohenlohe, "between
     the Emperor and myself was told partly on the way to the
     lodge and partly on the way back. Between came the shooting;
     but there was no sport, as the Emperor took his stand in the
     dark under a tree on which was a cock that did not 'call.'"

The following further extracts from the Hohenlohe Memoirs are given rather with the object
of showing the state of the political and social atmosphere in which the quarrel took place
than as throwing any fresh light on its course. In June of the preceding year (1889) occurs
an entry which registers the first signs of the coming storm. Prince Hohenlohe is telling of
a visit he made in June to the Grand Duke of Baden, whom he found irritated by Bismarck's proposal,
made in connection with the arrest of a Prussian police officer by the Swiss, to close the
frontier against the canton Aargau. The Grand Duke, the Prince relates, quoted Herbert Bismarck
as saying he "could not understand his father any longer and that people were beginning to
believe he was not right in his head."

The next entry in the Journal is dated Strasburg, August 24th. It concerns another meeting
with the Grand Duke, who now told him that Bismarck had changed his views and that these oscillations
had puzzled the Emperor and at the same time heightened his self-consciousness; moreover, that
the Emperor noticed that things were being kept back from him and was becoming suspicious.
There had already been a collision between the Emperor and the Chancellor and the latter might
have to go. What then? Probably the Emperor thought of conducting foreign policy himself--but
that, added the Grand Duke, would be very dangerous.

The feeling at Court regarding Bismarck's fall is shown by a passage in the Memoirs about this
time. It runs:

     "At 1.30 p.m. dinner (at the palace) at which I sat between
     Stosch and Kameke. The former told me much about his own
     quarrel with Bismarck, and was as gay as a snow-king that he
     can now speak freely and that the great man is no longer to
     be feared. This comfortable sentiment is obvious here on all
     sides."

The anecdote still current in Berlin, that Bismarck actually threw an inkstand at the Emperor's
head is reduced to its proper proportions by the following entry:

     "The Grand Duke of Baden, with whom I was yesterday, knows a
     good deal about the recent crisis. He says the cause of the
     breach between the Emperor and Chancellor was a question of
     power, and that all other differences of opinion about
     social legislation and other things were only secondary. The
     chief ground was the Cabinet Order of 1852, which Bismarck
     pressed on the attention of the Ministers without the
     Emperor's knowledge, and so hindered them from going to make
     their reports to the Emperor. The Emperor wanted the Order
     rescinded, while Bismarck was against it. Nor had the
     conversation with Windthorst led to the breach. A talk
     between the Emperor and Bismarck about this conversation is
     said to have been so tempestuous that the Emperor
     subsequently said when describing it, 'He (Bismarck) all but
     threw the inkstand at me.'" To Hohenlohe Bismarck said, as
     Hohenlohe remarked that the resignation had surprised him,
     "Me also," and that three weeks before he did not think
     things would end as they had. Bismarck added: "However, it
     was to be expected, for the Emperor is now quite determined
     to rule alone."

Finally the Prince's Journal has the following:

     "Two things struck me in these last three days: one that no
     one has any time and every one is in a greater hurry than
     before; and secondly, that individualities have expanded.
     Every individual is conscious of himself, while before,
     under the predominating influence of Prince Bismarck,
     individualities shrank and were kept down. Now they are all
     swollen like sponges placed in water. That has its
     advantages, but also its dangers. The single-minded will is
     lacking."

The period between the great Chancellor's fall and his death nine years later was marked by
so many incidents as to make it almost as mouvementé as the period of the fall itself. He retired
to Friedrichsruh, all the more immediately as the new Chancellor, General von Caprivi, showed
such indecent haste in taking possession of the official residence that a portion of Bismarck's
furniture was broken and rendered useless. That Bismarck retired with the angry feelings of
a Coriolanus in his heart, or, as Anglo-Saxon slang would have it, of a "bear with a sore head,"
became evident only a few weeks later. He was visited by the inevitable interviewer, and chose
the Hamburg News as the medium of communicating to the world his opinion of the new régime
and the men who were conducting it; and made use of that paper with such instant vigour and
acerbity that little more than two months from his retirement elapsed before the new Chancellor
thought it advisable to issue instructions to Germany's diplomatic representatives warning
them carefully to distinguish between the "present sentiments and views of the Duke of Lauenburg
and those of the erstwhile Prince Bismarck," and to pay no serious attention to the former.
Bismarck replied in the Hamburg News that he would not allow his mouth to be closed, and set
about proving that he meant what he said. Nothing the men of the "new course" could do met
with his approval. The first thing he fell foul of was the Anglo-German agreement of July 1,
1890, which gave Germany Heligoland in exchange for Zanzibar, deploring the badness of the
bargain for Germany, and evidently not foreseeing the importance that island's position, commanding
the approaches to the mouths of the Elbe and the Weser, was afterwards to possess. Besides
the friendliness with England, the detachment of Germany from Russia in favour of Austria,
also a feature of the "new course," did not please him as tending to drive Russia into the
arms of France.

His prescience, however, in this respect was demonstrated when a year later the Czar saluted
a French squadron in the harbour of Cronstadt to the strains of the "Marseillaise" and signed
a secret agreement that was alluded to four years later by the French Premier, M. Ribot, in
the French Chamber of Deputies, who spoke of Russia as "our ally," and was publicly announced
in 1897, on the occasion of President Felix Faure's visit to St. Petersburg, by the Czar's
now famous employment of the words "deux nations amies et alliées."

The ex-Chancellor was as little satisfied with the new tariff treaties entered into by General
Caprivi with Austria, Italy, Belgium, and other countries, which the Emperor, wiser, as events
have shown, than his former Minister, characterized on their passage by Parliament as the country's
"salvation" (eine rettende Tat). The ex-Chancellor's caustic but mistaken criticism was punished
by the calculated neglect of the Berlin authorities to invite him to the ceremonies attending
the celebration of the ninetieth birthday of his old comrade, General von Moltke, in October,
1890, and that of his funeral in the following April: still more publicly punished in connexion
with the marriage of his son Herbert.

The wedding of the latter to Countess Marguerite Hoyos was to take place in Vienna on June
21, 1892, and on the 18th Prince Bismarck started with his family to attend it. The journey
was a species of triumphal progress to Vienna, but it was to end in disappointment and chagrin.
As the result of representations from Germany, made doubtless with the Emperor's assent, if
not at his suggestion, Bismarck was met on his arrival with the news that the German Ambassador,
Prince Reuss, and the Embassy staff had orders to absent themselves from the wedding, that
the widow of the Crown Prince Rudolph, who had accepted a card of invitation to it, had suddenly
left Vienna, and that the Emperor Franz Joseph would not receive him. The German action was
explained by the publication two months later of the edict, stigmatized by Bismarck as an "Urias
Letter," in which Caprivi warned foreign Governments against attaching any importance to the
utterances of the Duke of Lauenburg. The Bismarckian and anti-Bismarckian storm came up afresh
in Germany. Bismarck was reproached by the Government as "injuring monarchical feeling," and
by his enemies as a traitor to his country; while the angry statesman published a statement
expressing the opinion that

     "the control of private social intercourse abroad, and the
     influencing of dinner invitations, were not tasks for which
     high officers of State were selected nor public money for
     the payment of diplomatic representatives voted":

doubting, at the same time, "if the foreign archives of any other country than Germany could
show a parallel to the incident."

The storm, notwithstanding, had a good effect, for it brought out in bold relief the immense
regard and respect the overwhelming majority of his countrymen entertained for the chief architect
of their Empire; and when Bismarck fell ill at Kissingen in 1893 the Emperor, subordinating
his political animosities to the chivalrous instincts of his nature, telegraphed his sorrow
to the patient and offered to lend him one of the royal castles for the purpose of his convalescence.
Bismarck declined, but not ungratefully, and the way to a reconciliation was opened. Next year,
1894, Bismarck suffered from influenza, and when this time the Emperor sent an adjutant to
Friedrichsruh to express his regret, invited him to attend the festivities on the forthcoming
royal birthday, and sent along with the invitation a flask of Steinberger Cabinet from the
imperial cellar in characteristic German proof of the sincerity of his feelings, the country
was delighted. Bismarck accepted the invitation and doubtless drank the Steinberger; and the
visit to Berlin followed in due time.

The reconciliation was completed amid sympathetic popular rejoicing. The Emperor sent his brother,
Prince Henry, to bring the ex-Chancellor from the railway station to the palace, where the
Emperor himself, surrounded by a brilliant staff, stood to welcome the guest. Bismarck spent
the day at the palace with the Royal Family and was taken back to the railway station in the
evening by the Emperor. A few days later the Emperor returned the visit at Friedrichsruh.

The quiet of the ex-Chancellor's last years was once unpleasantly affected by the Reichstag
in 1895, at the instance of his parliamentary enemies, rejecting, to its everlasting discredit,
a proposal for an official vote of congratulation to the ex-Chancellor on his eightieth birthday;
but against this unpleasantness may be set his gratification at the receipt of a telegram from
the Emperor expressing his "deepest indignation" at the rejection.

Prince Bismarck died on July 30th, 1898, and was laid to rest at Friedrichsruh in the presence
of the Emperor and Empress, while the world paused for a moment in its occupations to discuss
with sympathetic admiration the dead man's personality and career. Bismarck's spirit is still
abroad in Germany, and the popular memory of him is as fresh now as though he died but yesterday.
It is more than probable, much rather is it certain, that all trace of irritation with the
proud old Chancellor has long faded from the Emperor's mind: indeed at no time does there seem
to have been sentiments of personal or permanent rancour on one side or the other. The episode,
in short, was an inevitable collision of ages, temperaments, and times, regrettable no doubt
as a possibly harmful example of political discord among the leaders of the nation, but--with
due respect for the judgment of so capable an historian as von Treitschke--leaving no "indelible
stain" either on the pages of German history or on the reputations of Bismarck or the Emperor.

VIII.

SPACIOUS TIMES

1891-1899

A great English poet sings of the "spacious days" of Queen Elizabeth. From the German standpoint
the decade from the fall of Bismarck to the end of the century may not inaptly be described
as the spacious days of William II and the modern German Empire. To the Englishman the actual
territorial acquisitions of Germany during the period must seem comparatively insignificant,
but, taken in connection with the Emperor's speeches, the building of the German navy, the
Caprivi commercial treaties, the growth of friendly relations and of trade and intercourse
with America, North and South, they mean the opening of a new era in the history of the Empire--the
era of Weltpolitik.

Heligoland was obtained in exchange for Zanzibar in 1890, and is now regarded by Germans much
as Gibraltar or Malta is regarded by Englishmen. The first Kiel regatta, due solely to the
initiative of the Emperor, and starting the development of sport in all fields which is a feature
of modern German progress, ethical and physical, was held in 1894. The Caprivi commercial treaties
were concluded within the period. The Kiel Canal, connecting the Baltic and North Sea, and
giving the German fleet access to all the open waters of the earth, was opened in 1895. In
1896 the Kruger telegram testified to imperial interest in South African developments. The
Hamburg-Amerika Line now sent a specially fast mail and passenger steamer across the Atlantic.
The district of Kiautschau was leased from China in 1898, securing Germany a foothold and naval
base in the Far East. In the same year the modern Oriental policy of the Empire was inaugurated
by the Emperor's visit to Palestine and his declaration in the course of it that he would be
the friend of Turkey and of the three hundred millions of Mohammedans who recognized the Sultan
as their spiritual head. To this year also belongs the measure, the most important in its consequences
and significance of the reign hitherto, the passing of the First Navy Law. Finally, in 1899
Germany acquired the Caroline Islands by purchase from Spain, and certain Samoan Islands by
agreement with England and America.

Nothing was more natural as a result of the new world-policy than a change in the mental outlook
of the people. It inaugurated in Germany an era somewhat analogous to the era inaugurated in
England by the widening and brightening of the Englishman's horizon under Elizabeth. The analogy
may not be closely maintainable throughout, but, generally speaking, just as the eyes of Englishmen
suddenly saw the possibilities of expansion disclosed to them by Drake, Raleigh, and Frobisher,
so the Emperor's appeals, with the pursuance of German colonial policy and the attempt to develop
Germany's African possessions, led to an awakening in Germany of a similar, if weaker, kind.
To this awakening the building of the German navy contributed; and though it did not appeal
to the German imagination as did the deeds of the old navigators to that of Elizabethan Englishmen,
it widened the national outlook and fired the people with new imperial ambitions. Hitherto,
moreover, Germany's attention had been confined almost solely to trade within continental boundaries:
henceforth she was to do business actively and enterprisingly with all parts of the world.

The Emperor's thoughts on the subject were expressed in January, 1896, at a banquet in the
Berlin palace given to a miscellaneous company of leading personalities of the time. The occasion
was the celebration of the twenty-fifth year of the modern Empire's foundation. He said:

     "The German Empire becomes a world-empire. Everywhere in the
     farthest parts of the earth live thousands of our
     fellow-countrymen. German subjects, German knowledge, German
     industry cross the ocean. The value of German goods on the
     seas amounts to thousands of millions of marks. On you,
     gentlemen, devolves the serious duty of helping me to knit
     firmly this greater German Empire to the Empire at home."

The expression "greater German Empire" immediately reminded the Englishman of his own "Greater
Britain," and he concluded that the Emperor was secretly thinking of rivalling him in the extent
and value of his colonial possessions. Possibly he was, and doubtless he ardently desired to
see Germany owning large and fertile colonies; but it is quite as probable he was thinking
of his economic Weltpolitik, and knew as well then as he does now that it must be left to time
and the hour to show whether they fall to her or not.

In the same order of ideas may be placed, though it is anticipating somewhat, the Emperor's
utterances at Aix in 1902 and three years later at Bremen. At Aix, after describing the failure
of Charlemagne's successors to reconcile the duties of a Holy Roman Emperor with those of a
German King, he continued:

     "Now another Empire has arisen. The German people has once
     more an Emperor of its own choice, with the sword on the
     field of battle has the crown been won, and the imperial
     flag flutters high in the breeze. But the tasks of the new
     Empire are different: confined within its borders it has to
     steel itself anew for the work it has to do, and which it
     could not achieve in the Middle Ages. We have to live so
     that the Empire, still young, becomes from year to year
     stronger in itself, while confidence in it strengthens on
     all sides. The powerful German army guarantees the peace of
     Europe. In accord with the German character we confine
     ourselves externally in order to be unconfined internally.
     Far stretches our speech over the ocean, far the flight of
     our science and exploration; no work in the domain of new
     discovery, no scientific idea but is first tested by us and
     then adopted by other nations. This is the world-rule the
     German spirit strives for."

At Bremen he said:

     "The world-empire I dream of is a new German Empire which
     shall enjoy on all hands the most absolute confidence as a
     quiet, peaceable, honest neighbour--not founded by conquest
     with the sword, but on the mutual confidence of nations
     aiming at the same end."

The Emperor's world-policy was referred to more than once about this time by Chancellor Prince
Bülow in the Reichstag. "It is," he said on one occasion, "Germany's intention and duty to
protect the great and ever-growing oversea interests which she has acquired through the development
of conditions." "We recognize," he continued,

     "that we have no longer interests only round our own
     fireside or in the neighbourhood of the church clock, but
     everywhere where German industry and Germany's commercial
     spirit have penetrated; and we must foster these interests
     within the bounds of possibility and good sense."

"Our world-policy," he said on another occasion in the same place,

     "is not a policy of interference, much less a policy of
     intervention: had it interfered in South Africa (he was
     alluding to the Boer War) it must have intervened, and
     intervention implies the use of force."

On yet another occasion he explained that a prudent world-policy must go hand in hand with
a sound protective policy for home industry, and that its basis must be a strong national home
policy.

There is nothing in all this, even supposing Germany's interests at that time were purposely
exaggerated, to which the foreigner could reasonably object. The foreigner felt perhaps slightly
uncomfortable when the same statesman, departing for a moment from his usual objective standpoint,
spoke of the German "traversing the world with a sword in one hand and a spade and trowel in
the other"; but otherwise no act of Germany's world-policy need have inspired alarm, or need
inspire alarm at the present time, in sensible foreign minds. The rapidity of its action probably
helped to excite a feeling that it could not be altogether honest or above-board; but it should
be remembered that the new Empire had much leeway to make up in the race with other nations,
and that quick development was rendered necessary by her commercial treaties, by her protective
system, by the unexpected growth of industry and trade, by the continuous increase of population,
the development of the mercantile marine, and the growing consciousness of national strength.

And if there is nothing in Germany's development of her world-policy to which the foreigner
can reasonably object, there is much in it at which he can reasonably rejoice. Competition
is good for him, for it puts him on his mettle. A large and prosperous German population extends
his markets and means more business and more profit. The minds of both Germans and the foreigner
become broader, more mutually sympathetic and appreciative. The elder Pitt warned his fellow-countrymen
against letting France become a maritime, a commercial, or a colonial power. She has become
all three, and what injury has occurred therefrom to England or any other nation?

Germany's colonial development dates from about the year 1884, the period of the "scramble
for Africa." The first step to acquiring German colonies for the Empire was taken in 1883,
when a merchant of Bremen, Edouard Luderitz, made an agreement with the Hottentots by which
the bay of Angra Pequena in South-West Africa, with an area of fifty thousand square kilometres,
was ceded to him. Luderitz applied to Bismarck for imperial protection. Bismarck inquired of
England whether she claimed rights of sovereignty over the bay. Lord Granville replied in the
negative, but added that he did not consider the seizure of possession by another Power allowable.
Indignant at what he called a "monstrous claim" on all the land in the world which was without
a master, Bismarck telegraphed to the German Consul at the Cape to "declare officially to the
British Government that Herr Luderitz and his acquisitions are under the protection of the Empire."

The Bremen pioneer was fated to gain no advantage from his enterprise, as he was drowned in
the Orange River in 1886. His example as a colonist, however, was followed by three Hanseatic
merchants, Woermann, Jansen, and Thormealen, of Hamburg, who acquired land in Togo, a small
kingdom to the east of the British Gold Coast, and in the Cameroons, a large tract in the bend
of the Gulf of Guinea, extending to Lake Chad, and applied for German imperial protection.
Bismarck sent Consul-General Nachtigall with the gunboat Moewe in 1884 to hoist the German
flag at various ports. Five days after this had been done the English gunboat Flirt arrived,
but was thus too late to obtain Togoland and the Cameroons for England.

Dr. Carl Peters, the German Cecil Rhodes, now arrived at Zanzibar, and on obtaining concessions
from the Sultan founded the German East Africa Company, with a charter from his Government.
German hopes of great colonial expansion began to run high, but they were dashed by the Anglo-German
agreement of June, 1890, delimiting the spheres of England, Germany, and the Sultan of Zanzibar,
and stipulating that Germany should receive Heligoland from England in return for German recognition
of English suzerainty in Zanzibar and the possession of Uganda, which had recently been taken
for Germany by Dr. Peters. At that time Germans thought very little of Heligoland, but there
was then no Anglo-German tension, and no apprehension of an English descent on the German coast.

The lease for ninety-nine years of Kiautschau, a small area of about four hundred square miles
on the coast of China, was obtained from the Chinese in connexion with the murder of two German
missionaries in 1897 in the Shantung Province, of which Kiautschau forms a part. Herr von Bülow,
then only Foreign Secretary, referred to the transaction in the Reichstag in words that may
be quoted, as they describe German foreign policy in the Far East. "Our cruiser fleet," he said,

     "was sent to Kiautschau Bay to exact reparation for the
     murder of German Catholic missionaries on the one hand, and
     to obtain greater security for the future against a
     repetition of such occurrences. The Government,"

he continued,

"has nothing but benevolent and friendly designs regarding China, and has no wish either to
offend or provoke her. We are ready in East Asia to recognize the interests of other Great
Powers in the certain confidence that our own interests will be duly respected by them. In
one word--we desire to put no one in the shade, but we too demand our place in the sun. In
East Asia, as in the West Indies, we shall endeavour, in accordance with the traditions of
German policy, without unnecessary rigour, but also without weakness, to guard our rights and
our interests."

In mentioning the West Indies the Foreign Secretary was alluding to a quarrel Germany had at
this time with the negro republic of Haiti, owing to the arrest and imprisonment of a German
subject in that island. Kiautschau is administratively under the German Admiralty.

The Caroline, Marianne, and Palau Islands, including the Marschall Islands and the islands
of the Bismarck archipelago, were bought from Spain this year for twenty-five million pesetas,
or about one million sterling. The islands are valuable in German eyes, not only for their
fertility and capacity for plantation development, but as affording good harbourage and coaling
stations on the sea-road to China, Japan, and Central America. By the agreement with England
and America, which in this year also put an end to the thorny question of Samoan administration,
Germany acquired the Samoan islands of Upolu and Sawaii in the South Sea.

The ten years we are now concerned with were perhaps the most strenuous and picturesque of
the Emperor's life hitherto. He was now his own Chancellor, though that post was nominally
occupied by General von Caprivi and Prince Chlodwig Hohenlohe successively. He was Chancellor,
too, knowing that not a hundred miles off the old pilot of the ship of State was watching,
keenly and not too benevolently, his every act and word. He was conscious that the eyes of
the world were fixed on him, and that every other Government was waiting with interest and
curiosity to learn what sort of rival in statecraft and diplomacy it would henceforward have
to reckon with. Naturally many plans coursed through his restlessly active brain, but there
were always, one may imagine, two compelling and ever-present thoughts at the back of them.
One of these was a determination to promote the moral and material prosperity of his people
so as to make them a model and thoroughly modern commonwealth; the other, the resolve that
as Emperor he would not allow Germany to be overlooked, to be treated as a quantité négligeable,
in the discussion or decision of international affairs.

The Chancellorship of General von Caprivi, who had been successively Minister of War and Marine,
lasted from March, 1890, to October, 1894. He may have been a good commanding general, but
he has left no reputation either as a man of marked character or as a statesman of exceptional
ability. Nor was either character or ability much needed. He was, as every one knew, a man
of immensely inferior ability to his great predecessor, but every one knew also that the Emperor
intended to be his own Chancellor, pursue his own policy, and take responsibility for it. Taking
responsibility is, naturally, easier for a Hohenzollern monarch than for most men, since he
is responsible to no one but himself. With the appointment of Caprivi the Emperor's "personal
regiment" may be said to have begun.

During General von Caprivi's term of office some measures of importance have to be noted, among
them the Quinquennat, which replaced Bismarck's Septennat and fixed the military budget for
five years instead of seven; the reduction of the period of conscription for the infantry from
three years to two; and the decision not to renew Bismarck's reinsurance treaty with Russia.

The chief event, however, with which Chancellor Caprivi's name is usually associated, is the
conclusion of commercial treaties between Germany and most other continental countries. Other
countries had followed Germany's example and adopted a protective system, and with a view to
the avoidance of tariff wars, Caprivi, strongly supported, it need hardly be said, by an Emperor
who had just declared that "the world at the end of the nineteenth century stands under the
star of commerce, which breaks down the barriers between nations," began a series of commercial
treaty negotiations.

The first agreements were made with Germany's allies in the Triplice, Austria and Italy. Treaties
with Switzerland and Belgium, Servia and Rumania, followed. Russia held aloof for a time, but
as a great grain-exporting country she too found it advisable to come to terms. With France
there was no need of an agreement, since she was bound by the Treaty of Frankfurt, concluded
after the war of 1870, to grant Germany her minimum duties. One of the regrettable results
of the Empire's new commercial policy was an antagonism between agriculture and industry which
now declared itself and has remained active to the present day. The political cause of Caprivi's
fall from power, if power it can be called, was the twofold hostility of the Conservative and
Liberal parties in Parliament, that of the Conservatives being due to the injury supposed to
be done to landlord interests by the commercial treaties, and that of the Liberals by an Education
Bill, which, it was alleged, would hand the Prussian school system completely over to the Church.
Perhaps the main cause, however, was the general unpopularity he incurred by attacking, officially
and through the press, his predecessor, Bismarck, the idol of the people.

