To the office, and there we sat till past noon, and then Captain Cuttance and I by water to
Deptford, where the Royal James (in which my Lord went out the last voyage, though [he] came
back in the Charles) was paying off by Sir W. Batten and Sir W. Pen.  So to dinner, where I
had Mr. Sheply to dine with us, and from thence I sent to my Lord to know whether she should
be a first rate, as the men would have her, or a second.  He answered that we should forbear
paying the officers and such whose pay differed upon the rate of the ship, till he could speak
with his Royal Highness.  To the Pay again after dinner, and seeing of Cooper, the mate of
the ship, whom I knew in the Charles, I spoke to him about teaching the mathematiques, and
do please myself in my thoughts of learning of him, and bade him come to me in a day or two.
Towards evening I left them, and to Redriffe by land, Mr. Cowly, the Clerk of the Cheque, with
me, discoursing concerning the abuses of the yard, in which he did give me much light.  So
by water home, and after half an hour sitting talking with my wife, who was afeard I did intend
to go with my Lord to fetch the Queen mother over, in which I did clear her doubts, I went
to bed by daylight, in order to my rising early to-morrow.

2nd.  So Mr. Coventry to London, and Pett and I to the Pay, where Sir Williams both were paying
off the Royal James still, and so to dinner, and to the Pay again, where I did relieve several
of my Lord Sandwich's people, but was sorry to see them so peremptory, and at every word would,
complain to my Lord, as if they shall have such a command over my Lord.  In the evening I went
forth and took a walk with Mr. Davis, and told him what had passed at his office to-day, and
did give him my advice, and so with the rest by barge home and to bed

3rd.  Up by four o'clock and to my office till 8 o'clock, writing over two
copies of our contract with Sir W. Rider, &c., for 500 ton of hempe,
which, because it is a secret, I have the trouble of writing over as well
as drawing.  Then home to dress myself, and so to the office, where
another fray between Sir R. Ford and myself about his yarn, wherein I find
the board to yield on my side, and was glad thereof, though troubled that
the office should fall upon me of disobliging Sir Richard.  Thence
to my office all the afternoon as long as I could see, about setting many
businesses in order.  "The Chest at Chatham was originally planned by Sir Francis
     Drake and Sir John Hawkins in 1588, after the defeat of the Armada;
     the seamen voluntarily agreed to have 'defalked' out of their wages
     certain sums to form a fund for relief.  The property became
     considerable, as well as the abuses, and in 1802 the Chest was
     removed to Greenwich.  So home, and
after a turn or two upon the leads with my wife, who has lately had but
little of my company, since I begun to follow my business, but is
contented therewith since she sees how I spend my time, and so to bed.

4th.  Up by five o'clock, and after my journall put in order, to my office about my business,
which I am resolved to follow, for every day I see what ground I get by it.  By and by comes
Mr. Cooper, mate of the Royall Charles, of whom I intend to learn mathematiques, and do begin
with him to-day, he being a very able man, and no great matter, I suppose, will content him.
After an hour's being with him at arithmetique (my first attempt being to learn the multiplication-table);
then we parted till to-morrow.  And so to my business at my office again till noon, about which
time Sir W. Warren did come to me about business, and did begin to instruct me in the nature
of fine timber and deals, telling me the nature of every sort; and from that we fell to discourse
of Sir W. Batten's corruption and the people that he employs, and from one discourse to another
of the kind.  I was much pleased with his company, and so staid talking with him all alone
at my office till 4 in the afternoon, without eating or drinking all day, and then parted,
and I home to eat a bit, and so back again to my office; and toward the evening came Mr. Sheply,
who is to go out of town to-morrow, and so he and I with much ado settled his accounts with
my Lord, which, though they be true and honest, yet so obscure, that it vexes me to see in
what manner they are kept.  He being gone, and leave taken of him as of a man likely not to
come to London again a great while, I eat a bit of bread and butter, and so to bed.  This day
I sent my brother Tom, at his request, my father's old Bass Viall which he and I have kept
so long, but I fear Tom will do little good at it.

5th.  To my office all the morning, to get things ready against our sitting, and by and by
we sat and did business all the morning, and at noon had Sir W. Pen, who I hate with all my
heart for his base treacherous tricks, but yet I think it not policy to declare it yet, and
his son William, to my house to dinner, where was also Mr. Creed and my cozen Harry Alcocke.
I having some venison given me a day or two ago, and so I had a shoulder roasted, another baked,
and the umbles

     [The umbles are the liver, kidneys, and other portions of the inside
     of the deer.  They were usually made into pies, and old cookery
     books contain directions for the making of 'umble pies.']

baked in a pie, and all very well done.  We were merry as I could be in that company, and the
more because I would not seem otherwise to Sir W. Pen, he being within a day or two to go for
Ireland.  After dinner he and his son went away, and Mr. Creed would, with all his rhetoric,
have persuaded me to have gone to a play; and in good earnest I find my nature desirous to
have gone, notwithstanding my promise and my business, to which I have lately kept myself so
close, but I did refuse it, and I hope shall ever do so, and above all things it is considerable
that my mind was never in my life in so good a condition of quiet as it has been since I have
followed my business and seen myself to get greater and greater fitness in my employment, and
honour every day more than other.  So at my office all the afternoon, and then my mathematiques
at night with Mr. Cooper, and so to supper and to bed.

6th (Lord's day).  Lay long in bed to-day with my wife merry and pleasant, and then rose and
settled my accounts with my wife for housekeeping, and do see that my kitchen, besides wine,
fire, candle, sope, and many other things, comes to about 30s. a week, or a little over.  To
church, where Mr. Mills made a lazy sermon. It began to rain, and so I borrowed a hat and cloak
of Mr. Moore and walked home, where I found Captain Ferrer with my wife, and after speaking
a matter of an hour with him he went home and we all to bed.

7th.  Up and to my office early, and there all the morning alone till dinner, and after dinner
to my office again, and about 3 o'clock with my wife by water to Westminster, where I staid
in the Hall while my wife went to see her father and mother, and she returning we by water
home again, and by and by comes Mr. Cooper, so he and I to our mathematiques, and so supper
and to bed.  My morning's work at the office was to put the new books of my office into order,
and writing on the backsides what books they be, and transcribing out of some old books some
things into them.

8th.  At the office all the morning and dined at home, and after dinner in all haste to make
up my accounts with my Lord, which I did with some trouble, because I had some hopes to have
made a profit to myself in this account and above what was due to me (which God forgive me
in), but I could not, but carried them to my Lord, with whom they passed well.  He being gone
I also went home by water, Mr. Moore with me for discourse sake, and then parted from me, Cooper
being there ready to attend me, so he and I to work till it was dark, and then eat a bit and
by daylight to bed.

9th.  Up by four o'clock, and at my multiplicacion-table hard, which is all the trouble I meet
withal in my arithmetique.  So made me ready and to the office, where all the morning busy,
and Sir W. Pen came to my office to take his leave of me, and desiring a turn in the garden,
did commit the care of his building to me, and offered all his services to me in all matters
of mine.  I did, God forgive me! promise him all my service and love, though the rogue knows
he deserves none from me, nor do I intend to show him any; but as he dissembles with me, so
must I with him.  Dined at home, and so to the office again, my wife with me, and while I was
for an hour making a hole behind my seat in my closet to look into the office, she was talking
to me about her going to Brampton, which I would willingly have her to do but for the cost
of it, and to stay here will be very inconvenient because of the dirt that I must have when
my house is pulled down.  Then to my business till night, then Mr. Cooper and I to our business,
and then came Mr. Mills, the minister, to see me, which he hath but rarely done to me, though
every day almost to others of us; but he is a cunning fellow, and knows where the good victuals
is, and the good drink, at Sir W. Batten's.  However, I used him civilly, though I love him
as I do the rest of his coat.  So to supper and to bed.

10th.  Up by four o'clock, and before I went to the office I practised my arithmetique, and
then, when my wife was up, did call her and Sarah, and did make up a difference between them,
for she is so good a servant as I am loth to part with her.  So to the office all the morning,
where very much business, but it vexes me to see so much disorder at our table, that, every
man minding a several business, we dispatch nothing.  Dined at home with my wife, then to the
office again, and being called by Sir W. Batten, walked to the Victualler's office, there to
view all the several offices and houses to see that they were employed in order to give the
Council an account thereof.  So after having taken an oath or two of Mr. Lewes and Captain
Brown and others I returned to the office, and there sat despatching several businesses alone
till night, and so home and by daylight to bed.

11th.  Up by four o'clock, and hard at my multiplicacion-table, which I am now almost master
of, and so made me ready and to my office, where by and by comes Mr. Pett, and then a messenger
from Mr. Coventry, who stays in his boat at the Tower for us.  So we to him, and down to Deptford
first, and there viewed some deals lately served in at a low price, which our officers, like
knaves, would untruly value in their worth, but we found them good.  Then to Woolwich, and
viewed well all the houses and stores there, which lie in very great confusion for want of
storehouses, and then to Mr. Ackworth's and Sheldon's to view their books, which we found not
to answer the King's service and security at all as to the stores.  Then to the Ropeyard, and
there viewed the hemp, wherein we found great corruption, and then saw a trial between Sir
R. Ford's yarn and our own, and found great odds.  So by water back again.  About five in the
afternoon to Whitehall, and so to St. James's; and at Mr. Coventry's chamber, which is very
neat and fine, we had a pretty neat dinner, and after dinner fell to discourse of business
and regulation, and do think of many things that will put matters into better order, and upon
the whole my heart rejoices to see Mr. Coventry so ingenious, and able, and studious to do
good, and with much frankness and respect to Mr. Pett and myself particularly.  About 9 o'clock
we broke up after much discourse and many things agreed on in order to our business of regulation,
and so by water (landing Mr. Pett at the Temple) I went home and to bed.

12th.  Up by five o'clock, and put things in my house in order to be laid up, against my workmen
come on Monday to take down the top of my house, which trouble I must go through now, but it
troubles me much to think of it.  So to my office, where till noon we sat, and then I to dinner
and to the office all the afternoon with much business.  At night with Cooper at arithmetique,
and then came Mr. Creed about my Lord's accounts to even them, and he gone I to supper and to bed.

13th (Lord's day) .  .  .  .  I had my old pain all yesterday and this morning, and so kept
my bed all this morning.  So up and after dinner and some of my people to church, I set about
taking down my books and papers and making my chamber fit against to-morrow to have the people
come to work in pulling down the top of my house.  In the evening I walked to the garden and
sent for Mr. Turner (who yesterday did give me occasion of speaking to him about the difference
between him and me), and I told him my whole mind, and how it was in my power to do him a discourtesy
about his place of petty purveyance, and at last did make him see (I think) that it was his
concernment to be friendly to me and what belongs to me. After speaking my mind to him and
he to me, we walked down and took boat at the Tower and to Deptford, on purpose to sign and
seal a couple of warrants, as justice of peace in Kent, against one Annis, who is to be tried
next Tuesday, at Maidstone assizes, for stealing some lead out of Woolwich Yard.  Going and
coming I did discourse with Mr. Turner about the faults of our management of the business of
our office, of which he is sensible, but I believe is a very knave.  Come home I found a rabbit
at the fire, and so supped well, and so to my journall and to bed.

14th.  Up by 4 o'clock and to my arithmetique, and so to my office till 8, then to Thames Street
along with old Mr. Green, among the tarr-men, and did instruct myself in the nature and prices
of tarr, but could not get Stockholm for the use of the office under L10 15s. per last, which
is a great price.  So home, and at noon Dr. T. Pepys came to me, and he and I to the Exchequer,
and so back to dinner, where by chance comes Mr. Pierce, the chyrurgeon, and then Mr. Battersby,
the minister, and then Mr. Dun, and it happened that I had a haunch of venison boiled, and
so they were very wellcome and merry; but my simple Dr. do talk so like a fool that I am weary
of him.  They being gone, to my office again, and there all the afternoon, and at night home
and took a few turns with my wife in the garden and so to bed.  My house being this day almost
quite untiled in order to its rising higher.  This night I began to put on my waistcoat also.
I found the pageant in Cornhill taken down, which was pretty strange.

15th.  Up by 4 o'clock, and after doing some business as to settling my papers at home, I went
to my office, and there busy till sitting time. So at the office all the morning, where J.
Southern, Mr. Coventry's clerk, did offer me a warrant for an officer to sign which I desired,
claiming it for my clerk's duty, which however did trouble me a little to be put upon it, but
I did it.  We broke up late, and I to dinner at home, where my brother Tom and Mr. Cooke came
and dined with me, but I could not be merry for my business, but to my office again after dinner,
and they two and my wife abroad.  In the evening comes Mr. Cooper, and I took him by water
on purpose to tell me things belonging to ships, which was time well spent, and so home again,
and my wife came home and tells me she has been very merry and well pleased with her walk with
them.  About bedtime it fell a-raining, and the house being all open at top, it vexed me; but
there was no help for it.

16th.  In the morning I found all my ceilings, spoiled with rain last night, so that I fear
they must be all new whited when the work is done. Made me ready and to my office, and by and
by came Mr. Moore to me, and so I went home and consulted about drawing up a fair state of
all my Lord's accounts, which being settled, he went away, and I fell to writing of it very
neatly, and it was very handsome and concisely done.  At noon to my Lord's with it, but found
him at dinner, and some great company with him, Mr. Edward Montagu and his brother, and Mr.
Coventry, and after dinner he went out with them, and so I lost my labour; but dined with Mr.
Moore and the people below, who after dinner fell to talk of Portugall rings, and Captain Ferrers
offered five or six to sell, and I seeming to like a ring made of a coco-nutt with a stone
done in it, he did offer and would give it me.  By and by we went to Mr. Creed's lodging, and
there got a dish or two of sweetmeats, and I seeing a very neat leaden standish to carry papers,
pen, and ink in when one travels I also got that of him, and that done I went home by water
and to finish some of my Lord's business, and so early to bed. But strange it is how for her
beauty I am willing to construe all this to the best and to pity her wherein it is to her hurt,
though I know well enough she is a whore.  I dined at home, and so to my Lord's, where I presented
him with a true state of all his accounts to last Monday, being the 14th of July, which did
please him, and to my great joy I continue in his great esteem and opinion.  I this day took
a general acquittance from my Lord to the same day.  So that now I have but very few persons
to deal withall for money in the world.  Home and found much business to be upon my hands,
and was late at the office writing letters by candle light, which is rare at this time of the
year, but I do it with much content and joy, and then I do please me to see that I begin to
have people direct themselves to me in all businesses.  Very late I was forced to send for
Mr. Turner, Smith, Young, about things to be sent down early to-morrow on board the King's
pleasure boat, and so to bed with my head full of business, but well contented in mind as ever
in my life.

18th.  Up very early, and got a-top of my house, seeing the design of my work, and like it
very well, and it comes into my head to have my dining-room wainscoated, which will be very
pretty.  By-and-by by water to Deptford, to put several things in order, being myself now only
left in town, and so back again to the office, and there doing business all the morning and
the afternoon also till night, and then comes Cooper for my mathematiques, but, in good earnest,
my head is so full of business that I cannot understand it as otherwise I should do.  At night
to bed, being much troubled at the rain coming into my house, the top being open.

19th.  Up early and to some business, and my wife coming to me I staid long with her discoursing
about her going into the country, and as she is not very forward so am I at a great loss whether
to have her go or no because of the charge, and yet in some considerations I would be glad
she was there, because of the dirtiness of my house and the trouble of having of a family there.
So to my office, and there all the morning, and then to dinner and my brother Tom dined with
me only to see me.  Home, and Cooper coming (after I had dispatched several letters) to my
mathematiques, and so at night to bed to a chamber at Sir W. Pen's, my own house being so foul
that I cannot lie there any longer, and there the chamber lies so as that I come into it over
my leads without going about, but yet I am not fully content with it, for there will be much
trouble to have servants running over the leads to and fro.

20th (Lord's day).  My wife and I lay talking long in bed, and at last she is come to be willing
to stay two months in the country, for it is her unwillingness to stay till the house is quite
done that makes me at a loss how to have her go or stay.  But that which troubles me most is
that it has rained all this morning so furiously that I fear my house is all over water, and
with that expectation I rose and went into my house and find that it is as wet as the open
street, and that there is not one dry-footing above nor below in my house.  So I fitted myself
for dirt, and removed all my books to the office and all day putting up and restoring things,
it raining all day long as hard within doors as without.  At last to dinner, we had a calf's
head and bacon at my chamber at Sir W. Pen's, and there I and my wife concluded to have her
go and her two maids and the boy, and so there shall be none but Will and I left at home, and
so the house will be freer, for it is impossible to have anybody come into my house while it
is in this condition, and with this resolution all the afternoon we were putting up things
in the further cellar against next week for them to be gone, and my wife and I into the office
and there measured a soiled flag that I had found there, and hope to get it to myself, for
it has not been demanded since I came to the office.  But my wife is not hasty to have it,
but rather to stay a while longer and see the event whether it will be missed or no.  At night
to my office, and there put down this day's passages in my journall, and read my oaths, as
I am obliged every Lord's day.  And so to Sir W. Pen's to my chamber again, being all in dirt
and foul, and in fear of having catched cold today with dabbling in the water.  But what has
vexed me to-day was that by carrying the key to Sir W. Pen's last night, it could not in the
midst of all my hurry to carry away my books and things, be found, and at last they found it
in the fire that we made last night.  So to bed.

21st. Up early, and though I found myself out of order and cold, and the weather cold and likely
to rain, yet upon my promise and desire to do what I intended, I did take boat and down to
Greenwich, to Captain Cocke's, who hath a most pleasant seat, and neat.  Here I drank wine,
and eat some fruit off the trees; and he showed a great rarity, which was two or three of a
great number of silver dishes and plates, which he bought of an embassador that did lack money,
in the edge or rim of which was placed silver and gold medalls, very ancient, and I believe
wrought, by which, if they be, they are the greatest rarity that ever I saw in my life, and
I will show Mr. Crumlum them.  I breakfasted at Mr. Falconer's well, and much pleased with
my inquiries. Thence to the dock, where we walked in Mr. Shelden's garden, eating more fruit,
and drinking, and eating figs, which were very good, and talking while the Royal James was
bringing towards the dock, and then we went out and saw the manner and trouble of docking such
a ship, which yet they could not do, but only brought her head into the Dock, and so shored
her up till next tide.  But, good God!  what a deal of company was there from both yards to
help to do it, when half the company would have done it as well.  But I see it is impossible
for the King to have things done as cheap as other men.  Thence by water, and by and by landing
at the riverside somewhere among the reeds, we walked to Greenwich, where to Cocke's house
again and walked in the garden, and then in to his lady, who I find is still pretty, but was
now vexed and did speak very discontented and angry to the Captain for disappointing a gentleman
that he had invited to dinner, which he took like a wise man and said little, but she was very
angry, which put me clear out of countenance that I was sorry I went in. So after I had eat
still some more fruit I took leave of her in the garden plucking apricots for preserving, and
went away and so by water home, and there Mr. Moore coming and telling me that my Lady goes
into the country to-morrow, I carried my wife by coach to take her leave of her father, I staying
in Westminster Hall, she going away also this week, and thence to my Lady's, where we staid
and supped with her, but found that my Lady was truly angry and discontented with us for our
neglecting to see her as we used to do, but after a little she was pleased as she was used
to be, at which we were glad.  So after supper home to bed.

22d.  All day at the office, only at home at dinner, where I was highly angry with my wife
for her keys being out of the way, but they were found at last, and so friends again.  All
the afternoon answering letters and writing letters, and at night to Mr. Coventry an ample
letter in answer to all his and the Duke's business.  Late at night at the office, where my
business is great, being now all alone in town, but I shall go through it with pleasure.  So
home and to bed.

23rd.  This morning angry a little in the morning, and my house being so much out of order
makes me a little pettish.  I went to the office, and there dispatched business by myself,
and so again in the afternoon; being a little vexed that my brother Tom, by his neglect, do
fail to get a coach for my wife and maid this week, by which she will not be at Brampton Feast,
to meet my Lady at my father's.  At night home, and late packing up things in order to their
going to Brampton to-morrow, and so to bed, quite out of sorts in my mind by reason that the
weather is so bad, and my house all full of wet, and the trouble of going from one house to
another to Sir W. Pen's upon every occasion.  Besides much disturbed by reason of the talk
up and down the town, that my Lord Sandwich is lost; but I trust in God the contrary.

24th.  Up early this morning sending the things to the carrier's, and my boy, who goes to-day,
though his mistress do not till next Monday.  All the morning at the office, Sir W. Batten
being come to town last night. Dined at our chamber, where W. Bowyer with us, and after much
simple talk with him, I left him, and to my office, where all the afternoon busy till 9 at
night, among other things improving my late experiment at Woolwich about hemp.  So home and to bed.

25th.  At the office all the morning, reading Mr. Holland's' discourse of the Navy, lent me
by Mr. Turner, and am much pleased with them, they hitting the very diseases of the Navy, which
we are troubled with now-a-days.  I shall bestow writing of them over and much reading thereof.
This morning Sir W. Batten came in to the office and desired to speak with me; he began by
telling me that he observed a strangeness between him and me of late, and would know the reason
of it, telling me he heard that I was offended with merchants coming to his house and making
contracts there.  I did tell him that as a friend I had spoke of it to Sir W. Pen and desired
him to take a time to tell him of it, and not as a backbiter, with which he was satisfied,
but I find that Sir W. Pen has played the knave with me, and not told it from me as a friend,
but in a bad sense. He also told me that he heard that exceptions were taken at his carrying
his wife down to Portsmouth, saying that the King should not pay for it, but I denied that
I had spoke of it, nor did I.  At last he desired the difference between our wives might not
make a difference between us, which I was exceedingly glad to hear, and do see every day the
fruit of looking after my business, which I pray God continue me in, for I do begin to be very
happy.  Dined at home, and so to the office all the afternoon again, and at night home and to bed.

26th.  Sir W. Batten, Mr. Pett, and I at the office sitting all the
morning.  So dined at home, and then to my office again, causing the model
hanging in my chamber to be taken down and hung up in my office, for fear
of being spoilt by the workmen, and for my own convenience of studying it.  By the direction of Lord Castlemaine, who had become a
     Roman Catholic, the child was baptized by a priest, and this led to
     a final separation between husband and wife.  Some days afterwards
     the child was again baptized by the rector of St. Margaret's,
     Westminster, in presence of the godparents, the King, Aubrey De
     Vere, Earl of Oxford, and Barbara, Countess of Suffolk, first Lady
     of the Bedchamber to the Queen and Lady Castlemaine's aunt.  The
     entry in the register of St. Margaret's is as follows: "1662 June
     18 Charles Palmer Ld Limbricke, s. to ye right honorble Roger Earl
     of Castlemaine by Barbara" (Steinman's "Memoir of Barbara, Duchess
     of Cleveland," 1871, p.  33).  The child was afterwards called
     Charles Fitzroy, and was created Duke of Southampton in 1674.  But I hear that the Queen did prick her out of the list
presented her by the King;

     ["By the King's command Lord Clarendon, much against his
     inclination, had twice visited his royal mistress with a view of
     inducing her, by persuasions which he could not justify, to give way
     to the King's determination to have Lady Castlemaine of her
     household .  .  .  .  Lord Clarendon has given a full account of all
     that transpired between himself, the King and the Queen, on this
     very unpleasant business ('Continuation of Life of Clarendon,' 1759,
     ff. 168-178)."--Steinman's Memoir of Duchess of Cleveland, p. 35.
     "The day at length arrived when Lady Castlemaine was to be formally
     admitted a Lady of the Bedchamber.  The royal warrant, addressed to
     the Lord Chamberlain, bears date June 1, 1663, and includes with
     that of her ladyship, the names of the Duchess of Buckingham, the
     Countesses of Chesterfield and Bath, and the Countess Mareshall.  A
     separate warrant of the same day directs his lordship to admit the
     Countess of Suffolk as Groom of the Stole and first Lady of the
     Bedchamber, to which undividable offices she had, with the
     additional ones of Mistress of the Robes and Keeper of the Privy
     Purse, been nominated by a warrant dated April 2, 1662, wherein the
     reception of her oath is expressly deferred until the Queen's
     household shall be established.  Hence by water to
the Wardrobe to see how all do there, and so home to supper and to bed.

27th (Lord's day).  At church alone in the pew in the morning.  In the afternoon by water I
carried my wife to Westminster, where she went to take leave of her father,

     [Mrs. Pepys's father was Alexander Marchant, Sieur de St. Michel, a
     scion of a good family in Anjou.  Having turned Huguenot at the age
     of twenty-one, his father disinherited him, and he was left
     penniless.  He came over in the retinue of Henrietta Maria, on her
     marriage with Charles I., as one of her Majesty's gentlemen carvers,
     but the Queen dismissed him on finding out he was a Protestant and
     did not go to mass.  He described himself as being captain and major
     of English troops in Italy and Flanders.--Wheatley's Pepys and the
     World he lived in, pp. 6, 250.  He was full of schemes; see
     September 22nd, 1663, for account of his patent for curing smoky
     chimneys.]

and I to walk in the Park, which is now every day more and more pleasant, by the new works
upon it.  Here meeting with Laud Crispe, I took him to the farther end, and sat under a tree
in a corner, and there sung some songs, he singing well, but no skill, and so would sing false
sometimes. Then took leave of him, and found my wife at my Lord's lodging, and so took her
home by water, and to supper in Sir W. Pen's balcony, and Mrs. Keene with us, and then came
my wife's brother, and then broke up, and to bed.

28th.  Up early, and by six o'clock, after my wife was ready, I walked with her to the George,
at Holborn Conduit, where the coach stood ready to carry her and her maid to Bugden, but that
not being ready, my brother Tom staid with them to see them gone, and so I took a troubled
though willing goodbye, because of the bad condition of my house to have a family in it.  So
to my office all the morning abstracting the Duke's instructions in the margin thereof.  So
home all alone to dinner, and then to the office again, and in the evening Cooper comes, and
he being gone, to my chamber a little troubled and melancholy, to my lute late, and so to bed,
Will lying there at my feet, and the wench in my house in Will's bed.

29th.  Early up, and brought all my money, which is near L300, out of my house into this chamber;
and so to the office, and there we sat all the morning, Sir George Carteret and Mr. Coventry
being come from sea.  This morning among other things I broached the business of our being
abused about flags, which I know doth trouble Sir W. Batten, but I care not. At noon being
invited I went with Sir George and Mr. Coventry to Sir W. Batten's to dinner, and there merry,
and very friendly to Sir Wm. and he to me, and complies much with me, but I know he envies
me, and I do not value him.  To the office again, and in the evening walked to Deptford (Cooper
with me talking of mathematiques), to send a fellow to prison for cutting of buoy ropes, and
to see the difference between the flags sent in now-a-days, and I find the old ones, which
were much cheaper, to be wholly as good.  So I took one of a sort with me, and Mr. Wayth accompanying
of me a good way, talking of the faults of the Navy, I walked to Redriffe back, and so home
by water, and after having done, late, at the office, I went to my chamber and to bed.

30th.  Up early, and to my office, where Cooper came to me and begun his lecture upon the body
of a ship, which my having of a modell in the office is of great use to me, and very pleasant
and useful it is.  Thence with Captain Fletcher, of the Gage, in his ship's boat with 8 oars
(but every ordinary oars outrowed us) to Woolwich, expecting to find Sir W. Batten there upon
his survey, but he is not come, and so we got a dish of steaks at the White Hart, while his
clarkes and others were feasting of it in the best room of the house, and after dinner playing
at shuffleboard,

     [The game of shovelboard was played by two players (each provided
     with five coins) on a smooth heavy table.  On the table were marked
     with chalk a series of lines, and the play was to strike the coin on
     the edge of the table with the hand so that it rested between these
     lines.  Shakespeare uses the expression "shove-groat shilling," as
     does Ben Jonson.  These shillings were usually smooth and worn for
     the convenience of playing.  Strutt says ("Sports and Pastimes"), "I
     have seen a shovel-board table at a low public house in Benjamin
     Street, near Clerkenwell Green, which is about three feet in breadth
     and thirty-nine feet two inches in length, and said to be the
     longest at this time in London."]

and when at last they heard I was there, they went about their survey. But God help the King!
what surveys, shall be taken after this manner! I after dinner about my business to the Rope-yard,
and there staid till night, repeating several trialls of the strength, wayte, waste, and other
things of hemp, by which I have furnished myself enough to finish my intended business of stating
the goodness of all sorts of hemp.  At night home by boat with Sir W. Warren, who I landed
by the way, and so being come home to bed.

31st.  Up early and among my workmen, I ordering my rooms above, which will please me very
well.  So to my office, and there we sat all the morning, where I begin more and more to grow
considerable there.  But at the Exchange we resolved of eating a bit together, which we did
at the Ship behind the Exchange, and so took boat to Billingsgate, and went down on board the
Rosebush at Woolwich, and found all things out of order, but after frightening the officers
there, we left them to make more haste, and so on shore to the yard, and did the same to the
officers of the yard, that the ship was not dispatched.  Here we found Sir W. Batten going
about his survey, but so poorly and unlike a survey of the Navy, that I am ashamed of it, and
so is Mr. Coventry.  We found fault with many things, and among others the measure of some
timber now serving in which Mr. Day the assistant told us of, and so by water home again, all
the way talking of the office business and other very pleasant discourse, and much proud I
am of getting thus far into his books, which I think I am very much in.  So home late, and
it being the last day of the month, I did make up my accounts before I went to bed, and found
myself worth about L650, for which the Lord God be praised, and so to bed.  I drank but two
glasses of wine this day, and yet it makes my head ake all night, and indisposed me all the
next day, of which I am glad.  I am now in town only with my man Will and Jane, and because
my house is in building, I do lie at Sir W. Pen's house, he being gone to Ireland.  My wife,
her maid and boy gone to Brampton.  I am very well entered into the business and esteem of
the office, and do ply it close, and find benefit by it.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                 AUGUST
                                  1662

August 1st.  Up, my head aching, and to my office, where Cooper read me another lecture upon
my modell very pleasant.  So to my business all the morning, which increases by people coming
now to me to the office.  At noon to the Exchange, where meeting Mr. Creed and Moore we three
to a house hard by (which I was not pleased with) to dinner, and after dinner and some discourse
ordinary by coach home, it raining hard, and so at the office all the afternoon till evening
to my chamber, where, God forgive me, I was sorry to hear that Sir W. Pen's maid Betty was
gone away yesterday, for I was in hopes to have had a bout with her before she had gone, she
being very pretty.  I had also a mind to my own wench, but I dare not for fear she should prove
honest and refuse and then tell my wife.  I staid up late, putting things in order for my going
to Chatham to-morrow, and so to bed, being in pain .  .  .  with the little riding in a coach
to-day from the Exchange, which do trouble me.

2nd.  Up early, and got me ready in my riding clothes, and so to the office, and there wrote
letters to my father and wife against night, and then to the business of my office, which being
done, I took boat with Will, and down to Greenwich, where Captain Cocke not being at home I
was vexed, and went to walk in the Park till he come thither to me: and Will's forgetting to
bring my boots in the boat did also vex me, for I was forced to send the boat back again for
them.  I to Captain Cocke's along with him to dinner, where I find his lady still pretty, but
not so good a humour as I thought she was.  We had a plain, good dinner, and I see they do
live very frugally.  I eat among other fruit much mulberrys, a thing I have not eat of these
many years, since I used to be at Ashted, at my cozen Pepys's.  After dinner we to boat, and
had a pleasant passage down to Gravesend, but it was nine o'clock before we got thither, so
that we were in great doubt what to do, whether to stay there or no; and the rather because
I was afeard to ride, because of my pain .  .  . ; but at the Swan, finding Mr. Hemson and
Lieutenant Carteret of the Foresight come to meet me, I borrowed Mr. Hemson's horse, and he
took another, and so we rode to Rochester in the dark, and there at the Crown Mr. Gregory,
Barrow, and others staid to meet me.  So after a glass of wine, we to our barge, that was ready
for me, to the Hill-house, where we soon went to bed, before we slept I telling upon discourse
Captain Cocke the manner of my being cut of the stone, which pleased him much.  So to sleep.

3rd (Lord's day).  Up early, and with Captain Cocke to the dock-yard, a fine walk, and fine
weather.  Where we walked till Commissioner Pett come to us, and took us to his house, and
showed us his garden and fine things, and did give us a fine breakfast of bread and butter,
and sweetmeats and other things with great choice, and strong drinks, with which I could not
avoyde making my head ake, though I drank but little. Thither came Captain Allen of the Foresight,
and the officers of the yard to see me.  Thence by and by to church, by coach, with the Commissioner,
and had a dull sermon. A full church, and some pretty women in it; among others, Beck Allen,
who was a bride-maid to a new married couple that came to church to-day, and, which was pretty
strange, sat in a pew hung with mourning for a mother of the bride's, which methinks should
have been taken down.  After dinner going out of the church saluted Mrs. Pett, who came after
us in the coach to church, and other officers' wives.  The Commissioner staid at dinner with
me, and we had a good dinner, better than I would have had, but I saw there was no helping
of it.  After dinner the Commissioner and I left the company and walked in the garden at the
Hill-house, which is very pleasant, and there talked of our businesses and matters of the navy.
So to church again, where quite weary, and so after sermon walked with him to the yard up and
down and the fields, and saw the place designed for the wet dock.  And so to his house, and
had a syllabub, and saw his closet, which come short of what I expected, but there was fine
modells of ships in it indeed, whose worth I could not judge of.  At night walked home to the
Hill-house, Mr. Barrow with me, talking of the faults of the yard, walking in the fields an
hour or two, and so home to supper, and so Captain Cocke and I to bed.

4th.  Up by four o'clock in the morning and walked to the Dock, where Commissioner Pett and
I took barge and went to the guardships and mustered them, finding them but badly manned; thence
to the Sovereign, which we found kept in good order and very clean, which pleased us well,
but few of the officers on board.  Thence to the Charles, and were troubled to see her kept
so neglectedly by the boatswain Clements, who I always took for a very good officer; it is
a very brave ship.  Thence to Upnor Castle, and there went up to the top, where there is a
fine prospect, but of very small force; so to the yard, and there mustered the whole ordinary,
where great disorder by multitude of servants and old decrepid men, which must be remedied.
So to all the storehouses and viewed the stores of all sorts and the hemp, where we found Captain
Cocke's (which he came down to see along with me) very bad, and some others, and with much
content (God forgive me) I did hear by the Clerk of the Ropeyard how it was by Sir W. Batten's
private letter that one parcel of Alderman Barker's' was received.  At two o'clock to dinner
to the Hill-house, and after dinner dispatched many people's business, and then to the yard
again, and looked over Mr. Gregory's and Barrow's houses to see the matter of difference between
them concerning an alteration that Barrow would make, which I shall report to the board, but
both their houses very pretty, and deserve to be so, being well kept.  Then to a trial of several
sorts of hemp, but could not perform it here so well as at Woolwich, but we did do it pretty
well.  So took barge at the dock and to Rochester, and there Captain Cocke and I and our two
men took coach about 8 at night and to Gravesend, where it was very dark before we got thither
to the Swan; and there, meeting with Doncaster, an old waterman of mine above bridge, we eat
a short supper, being very merry with the drolling, drunken coachman that brought us, and so
took water.  It being very dark, and the wind rising, and our waterman unacquainted with this
part of the river, so that we presently cast upon the Essex shore, but got off again, and so,
as well as we could, went on, but I in such fear that I could not sleep till we came to Erith,
and there it begun to be calm, and the stars to shine, and so I began to take heart again,
and the rest too, and so made shift to slumber a little. Above Woolwich we lost our way, and
went back to Blackwall, and up and down, being guided by nothing but the barking of a dog,
which we had observed in passing by Blackwall, and so,

5th.  Got right again with much ado, after two or three circles and so on, and at Greenwich
set in Captain Cocke, and I set forward, hailing to all the King's ships at Deptford, but could
not wake any man: so that we could have done what we would with their ships.  At last waked
one man; but it was a merchant ship, the Royall Catharine: so to the Towerdock and home, where
the girl sat up for me.  It was about three o'clock, and putting Mr. Boddam out of my bed,
went to bed, and lay till nine o'clock, and so to the office, where we sat all the morning,
and I did give some accounts of my service.  Dined alone at home, and was glad my house is
begun tiling. And to the office again all the afternoon, till it was so dark that I could not
see hardly what it is that I now set down when I write this word, and so went to my chamber
and to bed, being sleepy.

6th.  Up early, and, going to my office, met Sir G. Carteret in coming through the yard, and
so walked a good while talking with him about Sir W. Batten, and find that he is going down
the wind in every body's esteem, and in that of his honesty by this letter that he wrote to
Captn. Allen concerning Alderman Barker's hemp.  I hear also that he hath sent to my Lord to
borrow L400, giving his brother Harvey's' security for it, and that my Lord will lend it him,
for which I am sorry.  Thence home, and at my office all the morning, and dined at home, and
can hardly keep myself from having a mind to my wench, but I hope I shall not fall to such
a shame to myself.  All the afternoon also at my office, and did business. In the evening came
Mr. Bland the merchant to me, who has lived long in Spain, and is concerned in the business
of Tangier, who did discourse with me largely of it, and after he was gone did send me three
or four printed things that he hath wrote of trade in general and of Tangier particularly,
but I do not find much in them.  Who, poor man, is, I perceive, much troubled, and did yesterday
morning walk in the garden with me, did tell me he did see there was a design of bringing another
man in his room, and took notice of my sorting myself with others, and that we did business
by ourselves without him.  Part of which is true, but I denied, and truly, any design of doing
him any such wrong as that.  He told me he did not say it particularly of me, but he was confident
there was somebody intended to be brought in, nay, that the trayne was laid before Sir W. Pen
went, which I was glad to hear him say. Upon the whole I see he perceives himself tottering,
and that he is suspected, and would be kind to me, but I do my business in the office and neglect
him.  At night writing in my study a mouse ran over my table, which I shut up fast under my
shelf's upon my table till to-morrow, and so home and to bed.

7th.  Up by four o'clock and to my office, and by and by Mr. Cooper comes and to our modell,
which pleases me more and more.  At this till 8 o'clock, and so we sat in the office and staid
all the morning, my interest still growing, for which God be praised.  This morning I got unexpectedly
the Reserve for Mr. Cooper to be maister of, which was only by taking an opportune time to
motion [it], which is one good effect of my being constant at the office, that nothing passes
without me; and I have the choice of my own time to propose anything I would have.  Dined at
home, and to the office again at my business all the afternoon till night, and so to supper
and to bed.  It being become a pleasure to me now-a-days to follow my business, and the greatest
part may be imputed to my drinking no wine, and going to no plays.

8th.  Up by four o'clock in the morning, and at five by water to Woolwich, there to see the
manner of tarring, and all the morning looking to see the several proceedings in making of
cordage, and other things relating to that sort of works, much to my satisfaction.  At noon
came Mr. Coventry on purpose from Hampton Court to see the same, and dined with Mr. Falconer,
and after dinner to several experiments of Hemp, and particularly some Milan hemp that is brought
over ready dressed.  Thence by boat; I being hot, he put the skirt of his cloak about me; and
it being rough, he told me the passage of a Frenchman through London Bridge, where, when he
saw the great fall, he begun to cross himself and say his prayers in the greatest fear in the
world, and soon as he was over, he swore "Morbleu!  c'est le plus grand plaisir du monde,"
being the most like a French humour in the world.

     [When the first editions of this Diary were printed no note was
     required here.  Before the erection of the present London Bridge the
     fall of water at the ebb tide was great, and to pass at that time
     was called "Shooting the bridge".  It was very hazardous for small
     boats.  The ancient mode, even in Henry VIII.'s time, of going to
     the Tower and Greenwich, was to land at the Three Cranes, in Upper
     Thames Street, suffer the barges to shoot the bridge, and to enter
     them again at Billingsgate.  See Cavendish's "Wolsey," p. 40, ed.
     1852]

To Deptford, and there surprised the Yard, and called them to a muster, and discovered many
abuses, which we shall be able to understand hereafter and amend.  Thence walked to Redriffe,
and so to London Bridge, where I parted with him, and walked home and did a little business,
and to supper and to bed.

9th.  Up by four o'clock or a little after, and to my office, whither by and by comes Cooper,
to whom I told my getting for him the Reserve, for which he was very thankful, and fell to
work upon our modell, and did a good morning's work upon the rigging, and am very sorry that
I must lose him so soon.  Home by water, and did business at my office.  Writing a letter to
my brother John to dissuade him from being Moderator of his year, which I hear is proffered
him, of which I am very glad.  By and by comes Cooper, and he and I by candlelight at my modell,
being willing to learn as much of him as is possible before he goes.  So home and to bed.

10th (Lord's day).  So to Tom's, where Dr. Fairebrother, newly come from Cambridge, met me,
and Dr. Thomas Pepys.  I framed myself as pleasant as I could, but my mind was another way.
Hither came my uncle Fenner, hearing that I was here, and spoke to me about Pegg Kite's business
of her portion, which her husband demands, but I will have nothing to do with it. I believe
he has no mind to part with the money out of his hands, but let him do what he will with it.
He told me the new service-book--[The Common Prayer Book of 1662, now in use.]--(which is now
lately come forth) was laid upon their deske at St. Sepulchre's for Mr. Gouge to read; but
he laid it aside, and would not meddle with it: and I perceive the Presbyters do all prepare
to give over all against Bartholomew-tide.

     [Thomas Gouge (1609-1681), an eminent Presbyterian minister, son of
     William Gouge, D.D. (lecturer at and afterwards Rector of St.
     Anne's, Blackfriars).  Thence walked home, meeting Mr. Moore by the way, and he home
with me and walked till it was dark in the garden, and so good night, and
I to my closet in my office to perfect my Journall and to read my solemn
vows, and so to bed.

11th.  All the morning at the office.  Dined at home all alone, and so to my office again,
whither Dean Fuller came to see me, and having business about a ship to carry his goods to
Dublin, whither he is shortly to return, I went with him to the Hermitage, and the ship happening
to be Captn. Holland's I did give orders for them to be well looked after, and thence with
him to the Custom House about getting a pass for them, and so to the Dolphin tavern, where
I spent 6d. on him, but drank but one glass of wine, and so parted.  He tells me that his niece,
that sings so well, whom I have long longed to see, is married to one Mr. Boys, a wholesale
man at the Three Crowns in Cheapside.  I to the office again, whither Cooper came and read
his last lecture to me upon my modell, and so bid me good bye, he being to go to-morrow to
Chatham to take charge of the ship I have got him.  So to my business till 9 at night, and
so to supper and to bed, my mind a little at ease because my house is now quite tiled.

12th.  Up early at my office, and I find all people beginning to come to me.  Among others
Mr. Deane, the Assistant of Woolwich, who I find will discover to me the whole abuse that his
Majesty suffers in the measuring of timber, of which I shall be glad.  He promises me also
a modell of a ship, which will please me exceedingly, for I do want one of my own.  By and
by we sat, and among other things Sir W. Batten and I had a difference about his clerk's making
a warrant for a Maister, which I would not suffer, but got another signed, which he desires
may be referred to a full board, and I am willing to it.  But though I did get another signed
of my own clerk's, yet I will give it to his clerk, because I would not be judged unkind, and
though I will stand upon my privilege.  At noon home and to dinner alone, and so to the office
again, where busy all the afternoon till to o'clock at night, and so to supper and to bed,
my mind being a little disquieted about Sir W. Batten's dispute to-day, though this afternoon
I did speak with his man Norman at last, and told him the reason of my claim.

13th.  We did not fully end it, but refer it to another time. At noon Commr. Pett and I by
water to Greenwich, and on board the pleasure-boats to see what they wanted, they being ordered
to sea, and very pretty things I still find them, and so on shore and at the Shipp had a bit
of meat and dined, there waiting upon us a barber of Mr. Pett's acquaintance that plays very
well upon the viollin.  Thence to Lambeth; and there saw the little pleasure-boat in building
by the King, my Lord Brunkard, and the virtuosoes of the town, according to new lines, which
Mr. Pett cries up mightily, but how it will prove we shall soon see.  So by water home, and
busy at my study late, drawing a letter to the yards of reprehension and direction for the
board to sign, in which I took great pains.  So home and to bed.

14th.  Up early and to look on my works, and find my house to go on apace. Thence to my office
about business till late, and so home and to bed.

15th.  Up very early, and up about seeing how my work proceeds, and am pretty well pleased
therewith; especially my wife's closet will be very pretty.  So to the office and there very
busy, and many people coming to me.  At noon to the Change, and there hear of some Quakers
that are seized on, that would have blown up the prison in Southwark where they are put. So
to the Swan, in Old Fish Street, where Mr. Brigden and his father-in-law, Blackbury, of whom
we had bought timber in the office, but have not dealt well with us, did make me a fine dinner
only to myself; and after dinner comes in a jugler, which shewed us very pretty tricks. I seemed
very pleasant, but am no friend to the man's dealings with us in the office.  Home and to my
office till 9 at night doing business, and so to bed.  Besides the sermon, I was very well
pleased with the sight of a fine lady that I have often seen walk in Graye's Inn Walks, and
it was my chance to meet her again at the door going out, and very pretty and sprightly she
is, and I believe the same that my wife and I some years since did meet at Temple Bar gate
and have sometimes spoke of. &c. Church being done and it raining I took a hackney coach and
so home, being all in a sweat and fearful of getting cold.  To my study at my office, and thither
came Mr. Moore to me and walked till it was quite dark.  Then I wrote a letter to my Lord Privy
Seale as from my Lord for Mr.-------to be sworn directly by deputy to my Lord, he denying to
swear him as deputy together with me.  So that I am now clear of it, and the profit is now
come to be so little that I am not displeased at my getting off so well. He being gone I to
my study and read, and so to eat a bit of bread and cheese and so to bed.

18th.  Up very early, and up upon my house to see how work goes on, which do please me very
well.  So to dinner and by and by, being sent for, comes Mr. Cooper, our officer in the Forest,
and did give me an account of things there, and how the country is backward to come in with
their carts.  By and by comes one Mr. Marshall, of whom the King has many carriages for his
timber, and they staid and drank with me, and while I am here, Sir W. Batten passed by in his
coach, homewards from Colchester, where he had been seeing his son-in-law, Lemon, that lies
a-dying, but I would take no notice of him, but let him go.  By and by I got a horseback again
and rode to Barking, and there saw the place where they ship this timber for Woolwich; and
so Deane and I home again, and parted at Bowe, and I home just before a great showre of rayne,
as God would have it.  I find Deane a pretty able man, and able to do the King service; but,
I think, more out of envy to the rest of the officers of the yard, of whom he complains much,
than true love, more than others, to the service.  He would fain seem a modest man, and yet
will commend his own work and skill, and vie with other persons, especially the Petts, but
I let him alone to hear all he will say.  Whiled away the evening at my office trying to repeat
the rules of measuring learnt this day, and so to bed with my mind very well pleased with this
day's work.

19th.  Up betimes and to see how my work goes on.  Then Mr. Creed came to me, and he and I
walked an hour or two till 8 o'clock in the garden, speaking of our accounts one with another
and then things public.  Among other things he tells me that my Lord has put me into Commission
with himself and many noblemen and others for Tangier, which, if it be, is not only great honour,
but may be of profit too, and I am very glad of it.  Dined at home alone, then to my office,
and there till late at night doing business, and so home, eat a bit, and to bed.

20th.  And many other things I heard which yet I understand not, and so cannot remember.  My
Lord and Lord Peterborough going out to the Solicitor General about the drawing up of this
Commission, I went to Westminster Hall with Mr. Moore, and there meeting Mr. Townsend, he would
needs take me to Fleet Street, to one Mr. Barwell, squire sadler to the King, and there we
and several other Wardrobe-men dined.  We had a venison pasty, and other good plain and handsome
dishes; the mistress of the house a pretty, well-carriaged woman, and a fine hand she hath;
and her maid a pretty brown lass.  But I do find my nature ready to run back to my old course
of drinking wine and staying from my business, and yet, thank God, I was not fully contented
with it, but did stay at little ease, and after dinner hastened home by water, and so to my
office till late at night.  In the evening Mr. Hayward came to me to advise with me about the
business of the Chest, which I have now a mind to put in practice, though I know it will vex
Sir W. Batten, which is one of the ends (God forgive me) that I have in it.  So home, and eat
a bit, and to bed.

21st.  Up early, and to my office, and by and by we sat all the morning. At noon, though I
was invited to my uncle Fenner's to dinner to a haunch of venison I sent him yesterday, yet
I did not go, but chose to go to Mr. Rawlinson's, where my uncle Wight and my aunt, and some
neighbour couples were at a very good venison pasty.  Hither came, after we were set down,
a most pretty young lady (only her hands were not white nor handsome), which pleased me well,
and I found her to be sister to Mrs. Anne Wight that comes to my uncle Wight's.  We were good
company, and had a very pretty dinner.  And after dinner some talk, I with my aunt and this
young lady about their being [at] Epsom, from whence they came to-day, and so home and to my
office, and there doing business till past 9 at night, and so home and to bed.  But though
I drank no wine to-day, yet how easily was I of my own accord stirred up to desire my aunt
and this pretty lady (for it was for her that I did it) to carry them to Greenwich and see
the pleasure boats.  But my aunt would not go, of which since I am much glad.

22nd.  About three o'clock this morning I waked with the noise of the rayne, having never in
my life heard a more violent shower; and then the catt was lockt in the chamber, and kept a
great mewing, and leapt upon the bed, which made me I could not sleep a great while.  Then
to sleep, and about five o'clock rose, and up to my office, and about 8 o'clock went down to
Deptford, and there with Mr. Davis did look over most of his stores; by the same token in the
great storehouse, while Captain Badily was talking to us, one from a trap-door above let fall
unawares a coyle of cable, that it was 10,000 to one it had not broke Captain Badily's neck,
it came so near him, but did him no hurt.  I went on with looking and informing myself of the
stores with great delight, and having done there, I took boat home again and dined, and after
dinner sent for some of my workmen and did scold at them so as I hope my work will be hastened.
Then by water to Westminster Hall, and there I hear that old Mr. Hales did lately die suddenly
in an hour's time.  Here I met with Will Bowyer, and had a promise from him of a place to stand
to-morrow at his house to see the show.  Thence to my Lord's, and thither sent for Mr. Creed,
who came, and walked together talking about business, and then to his lodgings at Clerke's,
the confectioner's, where he did give me a little banquet, and I had liked to have begged a
parrot for my wife, but he hath put me in a way to get a better from Steventon; at Portsmouth.
But I did get of him a draught of Tangier to take a copy by, which pleases me very well.  So
home by water and to my office, where late, and so home to bed.

23d.  Up early, and about my works in my house, to see what is done and design more.  Then
to my office, and by and by we sat till noon at the office. Richard Ford's daughter.  Anon
come the King and Queen in a barge under a canopy with 10,000 barges and boats, I think, for
we could see no water for them, nor discern the King nor Queen. And by and by, she being in
her hair, she put on his hat, which was but an ordinary one, to keep the wind off.  But methinks
it became her mightily, as every thing else do.  The show being over, I went away, not weary
with looking on her, and to my Lord's lodgings, where my brother Tom and Dr. Thomas Pepys were
to speak with me.  So I walked with them in the garden, and was very angry with them both for
their going out of town without my knowledge; but they told me the business, which was to see
a gentlewoman for a wife for Tom, of Mr. Cooke's providing, worth L500, of good education,
her name Hobell, and lives near Banbury, demands L40 per annum joynter.  Tom likes her, and,
they say, had a very good reception, and that Cooke hath been very serviceable therein, and
that she is committed to old Mr. Young, of the Wardrobe's, tuition.  After I had told them
my mind about their folly in going so unadvisedly, I then begun to inquire after the business,
and so did give no answer as to my opinion till I have looked farther into it by Mr. Young.
By and by, as we were walking in my Lord's walk, comes my Lord, and so we broke our discourse
and went in with him, and after I had put them away I went in to my Lord, and he and I had
half an hour's private discourse about the discontents of the times, which we concluded would
not come to anything of difference, though the Presbyters would be glad enough of it; but we
do not think religion will so soon cause another war.  Then to his own business.  He asked
my advice there, whether he should go on to purchase more land and to borrow money to pay for
it, which he is willing to do, because such a bargain as that of Mr. Buggins's, of Stukely,
will not be every day to be had, and Brampton is now perfectly granted him by the King--I mean
the reversion of it--after the Queen's death; and, in the meantime, he buys it of Sir Peter
Ball his present right.  Then we fell to talk of Navy business, and he concludes, as I do,
that he needs not put himself upon any more voyages abroad to spend money, unless a war comes;
and that by keeping his family awhile in the country, he shall be able to gather money.  He
is glad of a friendship with Mr. Coventry, and I put him upon increasing it, which he will
do, but he (as Mr. Coventry do) do much cry against the course of our payments and the Treasurer
to have the whole power in his own hands of doing what he will, but I think will not meddle
in himself.  He told me also that in the Commission for Tangier Mr. Coventry had advised him
that Mr. Povy, who intended to be Treasurer,

     [Thomas Povy, who had held, under Cromwell, a high situation in the
     Office of Plantations, was appointed in July, 1660, Treasurer and
     Receiver-General of the Rents and Revenues of James, Duke of York;
     but his royal master's affairs falling into confusion, he
     surrendered his patent on the 27th July, 1668, for a consideration
     of L2,000.  He was also First Treasurer for Tangier, which office he
     resigned to Pepys.  Povy, had apartments at Whitehall, besides his
     lodgings in Lincoln's Inn, and a villa near Hounslow, called the
     Priory, which he had inherited from Justinian Povy, who purchased it
     in 1625.  He was one of the sons of Justinian Povy, Auditor-General
     to Queen Anne of Denmark in 1614, whose father was John Povy,
     citizen and embroiderer of London.]

and it is intended him, may not be of the Commission itself, and my Lord I think will endeavour
to get him to be contented to be left out of the Commission, and it is a very good rule indeed
that the Treasurer in no office ought to be of the Commission.  Here we broke off, and I bid
him good night, and so with much ado, the streets being at nine o'clock at night crammed with
people going home to the city, for all the borders of the river had been full of people, as
the King had come, to a miracle got to the Palace Yard, and there took boat, and so to the
Old Swan, and so walked home, and to bed very weary.

24th (Lord's day).  Slept till 7 o'clock, which I have not done a very great while, but it
was my weariness last night that caused it.  So rose and to my office till church time, writing
down my yesterday's observations, and so to church, where I all alone, and found Will Griffin
and Thomas Hewett got into the pew next to our backs, where our maids sit, but when I come,
they went out; so forward some people are to outrun themselves.  Here we had a lazy, dull sermon.
So home to dinner, where my brother Tom came to me, and both before and after dinner he and
I walked all alone in the garden, talking about his late journey and his mistress, and for
what he tells me it is like to do well.  He being gone, I to church again, where Mr. Mills,
making a sermon upon confession, he did endeavour to pull down auricular confession, but did
set it up by his bad arguments against it, and advising people to come to him to confess their
sins when they had any weight upon their consciences, as much as is possible, which did vex
me to hear.  So home, and after an hour's being in my office alone, looking over the plates
and globes, I walked to my uncle Wight's, the truth is, in hopes to have seen and been acquainted
with the pretty lady that came along with them to dinner the other day to Mr. Rawlinson, but
she is gone away.

     [A nickname given by the Dissenters to the Prayer-Book.  In Mrs.
     Behn's "City Heiress" (1682), Sir Anthony says to Sir Timothy, "You
     come from Church, too."  Sir Timothy replies, "Ay, needs must when
     the Devil drives--I go to save my bacon, as they say, once a month,
     and that too after the Porridge is served up."  After supper home and to bed.

25th.  Up early, and among my workmen when they came, and set them in good order at work on
all hands, which, though it at first began angrily, yet I pleased myself afterwards in seeing
it put into a good posture, and so I left them, and away by water to Woolwich (calling in my
way in Hamcreek, where I have never been before, and there found two of the King's ships lie
there without any living creature aboard, which troubled me, every thing being stole away that
can be), where I staid seeing a cable of 14 inches laid, in which there was good variety. 
Then to Mr. Falconer's, and there eat a bit of roast meat off of the spit, and so away to the
yard, and there among other things mustered the yard, and did things that I perceive people
do begin to value me, and that I shall be able to be of command in all matters, which God be
praised for.  Then to Mr. Pett's, and there eat some fruit and drank, and so to boat again,
and to Deptford, calling there about the business of my house only, and so home, where by appointment
I found Mr. Coventry, Sir W. Batten, and Mr. Waith met at Sir W. Batten's, and thither I met,
and so agreed upon a way of answering my Lord Treasurer's letter.  Here I found Mr. Coventry
had got a letter from the Duke, sent us for looking into the business of the Chest, of which
I am glad.  After we had done here I went home, and up among my workmen, and found they had
done a good day's work, and so to my office till late ordering of several businesses, and so
home and to bed, my mind, God be praised, full of business, but great quiet.

26th.  Up betimes and among my works and workmen, and with great pleasure seeing them go on
merrily, and a good many hands, which I perceive makes good riddance, and so to the office,
where we sat all the morning, and at noon dined alone with Sir W. Batten, which I have not
done a great while, but his lady being out of the way I was the willinger to do it, and after
dinner he and I by water to Deptford, and there found Sir G. Carteret and my Lady at dinner,
and so we sat down and eat another dinner of venison with them, and so we went to the payhouse,
and there staid till to o'clock at night paying off the Martin and Kinsale, being small but
troublesome ships to pay, and so in the dark by water home to the Custom House, and so got
a lanthorn to light us home, there being Mr. Morrice the wine cooper with us, he having been
at Deptford to view some of the King's casks we have to sell.  So to bed.

27th.  Up and among my workmen, my work going on still very well.  So to my office all the
morning, and dined again with Sir W. Batten, his Lady being in the country.  Among other stories,
he told us of the Mayor of Bristoll's reading a pass with the bottom upwards; and a barber
that could not read, that flung a letter in the kennel when one came to desire him to read
the superscription, saying, "Do you think I stand here to read letters?"  This afternoon Mrs.
Hunt came to see me, and I did give her a Muske Millon.  To-day my hogshead of sherry I have
sold to Sir W. Batten, and am glad of my money instead of wine.  After I had wrote this at
my office (as I have of late altogether done since my wife has been in the country) I went
into my house, and Will having been making up books at Deptford with other clerks all day,
I did not think he was come home, but was in fear for him, it being very late, what was become
of him.  But when I came home I found him there at his ease in his study, which vexed me cruelly,
that he should no more mind me, but to let me be all alone at the office waiting for him. 
Whereupon I struck him, and did stay up till 12 o'clock at night chiding him for it, and did
in plain terms tell him that I would not be served so, and that I am resolved to look out some
boy that I may have the bringing up of after my own mind, and which I do intend to do, for
I do find that he has got a taste of liberty since he came to me that he will not leave.  Having
discharged my mind, I went to bed.

28th.  I observe that Will, whom I used to call two or three times in a morning, would now
wake of himself and rise without calling.  Which though angry I was glad to see.  So I rose
and among my workmen, in my gown, without a doublet, an hour or two or more, till I was afraid
of getting an ague, and so to the office, and there we sat all the morning, and at noon Mr.
Coventry and I dined at Sir W. Batten's, where I have now dined three days together, and so
in the afternoon again we sat, which we intend to do two afternoons in a week besides our other
sitting.  In the evening we rose, and I to see how my work goes on, and so to my office, writing
by the post and doing other matters, and so home and to bed late.

29th.  Up betimes and among my workmen, where I did stay with them the greatest part of the
morning, only a little at the office, and so to dinner alone at home, and so to my workmen
again, finding my presence to carry on the work both to my mind and with more haste, and I
thank God I am pleased with it.  At night, the workmen being gone, I went to my office, and
among other businesses did begin to-night with Mr. Lewes to look into the nature of a purser's
account, and the business of victualling, in which there is great variety; but I find I shall
understand it, and be able to do service there also.  So being weary and chill, being in some
fear of an ague, I went home and to bed.

30th.  Up betimes among my workmen, and so to the office, where we sat all the morning, and
at noon rose and had news that Sir W. Pen would be in town from Ireland, which I much wonder
at, he giving so little notice of it, and it troubled me exceedingly what to do for a lodging,
and more what to do with my goods, that are all in his house; but at last I resolved to let
them lie there till Monday, and so got Griffin to get a lodging as near as he could, which
is without a door of our back door upon Tower Hill, a chamber where John Pavis, one of our
clerks, do lie in, but he do provide himself elsewhere, and I am to have his chamber. So at
the office all the afternoon and the evening till past to at night expecting Sir W. Pen's coming,
but he not coming to-night I went thither and there lay very well, and like my lodging well
enough.  My man Will after he had got me to bed did go home and lay there, and my maid Jane
lay among my goods at Sir W. Pen's.

31st (Lord's day).  Waked early, but being in a strange house, did not rise till 7 o'clock
almost, and so rose and read over my oaths, and whiled away an hour thinking upon businesses
till Will came to get me ready, and so got ready and to my office, and thence to church.  After
sermon home and dined alone.  News is brought me that Sir W. Pen is come. But I would take
no notice thereof till after dinner, and then sent him word that I would wait on him, but he
is gone to bed.  So to my office, and there made my monthly accounts, and find myself worth
in money about L686 19s. 2 1/2d., for which God be praised; and indeed greatly I hope to thank
Almighty God, who do most manifestly bless me in my endeavours to do the duties of my office,
I now saving money, and my expenses being little.  My wife is still in the country; my house
all in dirt; but my work in a good forwardness, and will be much to my mind at last.  In the
afternoon to church, and there heard a simple sermon of a stranger upon David's words, "Blessed
is the man that walketh not in the way of the ungodly," &c., and the best of his sermon was
the degrees of walking, standing, and sitting, showing how by steps and degrees sinners do
grow in wickedness.  After sermon to my brother Tom's, who I found has taken physic to-day,
and I talked with him about his country mistress, and read Cook's letter, wherein I am well
satisfied, and will appear in promoting it; so back and to Mr. Rawlinson's, and there supped
with him, and in came my uncle Wight and my aunt.  God preserve us! for all these things bode
very ill.  So home, and after going to welcome home Sir W. Pen, who was unready, going to bed,
I staid with him a little while, and so to my lodging and to bed.

