At the moment when Mrs Darvell began to climb Whiteleaf Hill with her heavy basket, Frank was
lying at the foot of a big beech-tree in the wood near his home; his face was buried in his
hands, and every now and then sobs shook his little thin frame.  For it had been a most unfortunate
day for him; everything had gone wrong, and by the time the evening came and work was over
his father's wrath was high.  Frank knew what to expect, and he also remembered that there
would be no mother at home to shield him from punishment, so waiting a favourable moment he
slipped off into the wood before he was missed.  Then he flung himself on the ground and cried,
because he felt so tired, and weak, and hopeless; and as he thought of his father's angry face
and heavy uplifted hand he shivered with terror.  How he longed for someone to comfort and
speak kindly to him.  Soon, he knew, his mother would be in from market; there would be a blazing
fire at home, and supper, and a warm corner.  Should he venture back?  But then, morning would
come again, and the hard work, and he would have to stumble along the sticky furrows all day,
and there would be blows and threatenings to end with. No, he could not go back; it would be
better even, he said to himself, to beg for his bread like the tramps he had seen sometimes
in Danecross.

As he came to this conclusion he sat up, rubbed his eyes, and looked round him.  It was about
six o'clock, and already very dusk in the wood, though the little dancing leaves of the Leeches
could not make much shadow yet, for it was only April; all round the boy rose the grey straight
stems of the trees, and tufts of primroses shone out whitely here and there on the ground.
It was perfectly still and silent, except that a cold little wind rustled the branches, and
the birds were making a few last twittering notes before they went to sleep--"a harmony," as
the country folks called it.  Frank got up and hurried on, for he knew that directly mother
returned search would be made for him.  He must get a long way on before that, and hide somewhere
for the night.  That side of the wood near Green Highlands was quite familiar to him, and though
there were no paths, and it all looked very much alike, he knew what direction to take for
the hiding-place he had in view.  A town boy would soon have become confused, and perhaps have
ended in finding himself at Green Highlands again, but Frank knew better than that, and he
stumbled steadily along in his heavy boots, getting gradually and surely further away from
home and deeper in the wood.

How quiet it was, and how fast the darkness seemed to close round him! All the birds were silent
soon, except that a jay sometimes startled him with its harsh sudden cry; once a rabbit rushed
so quickly across his path that he almost fell on it.  On and on he went at a steady jog-trot
pace, looking neither to right nor left.  Now, if you have ever been in a beech wood, you must
remember that winter and summer the ground is covered with the old dead brown leaves that have
fallen from the trees. So thick they lie, that in some places you can stand knee-deep in them,
especially if there are any hollows into which they have been drifted by the wind; this particular
wood was full of such hollows, some of them wide and long enough for a tall man to lie down
in, and Frank knew exactly where to find them.  Turning aside, therefore, at a certain clump
of bushes there was the very thing he wanted--bed and hiding-place at once.  It was a broad
shallow pit or hollow filled quite up to the top with the red-brown beech leaves.  He scooped
out a place just large enough for himself, lay down in it, and carefully replaced the leaves
up to his very chin.  He even put a few lightly over his face, and when that was done no one
would have imagined that a boy or any other living thing was hidden there.

Then the solemn hours of darkness came silently on; all the creatures in the great wood slept,
and even Frank in his strange leafy bed slept also, worn out with weariness.

About the middle of the night the breeze freshened a little, and the dry leaves stirred and
rustled.  The sounds mingled with the boy's dreams, and he thought he was lying in his attic
at home, and that a mouse was running over his face; he felt its little tickling feet and its
long tail quite plainly, and put up his hand to brush it away.  Then he woke with a start.
The chill wind blew in his face and sighed among the trees, and instead of the low attic beams
there were waving branches over his head.  He was not at home, but alone, quite alone in Whiteleaf
Wood, with thick darkness all round him.  Frank was frightened without knowing why; it was
all so "unked," as he would have expressed it, and as he stared about with terrified eyes he
seemed to see mysterious forms moving near.  Then he looked up towards the sky; and there,
through a space between the tops of the trees, was one solitary beautiful star shining down
upon him like a kind bright eye.  It was a comfort to see it there, and by degrees, as he lay
with his eyes fixed upon it, he forgot his fears a little, and began to think of other things.
First there came into his head one line of a hymn which he had often sung in the choir at Danecross
church:

"Brightest and best of the sons of the morning," it began.  From that he went on to consider
what a long time it was since he had said his prayers, because he was always so sleepy and
tired at night, and he thought he would say them now.  But before he had finished them he fell
into a quiet slumber, which lasted till morning, when the sun, peering through the trees, pointed
suddenly down at his face with a fiery finger and woke him up.

CHAPTER TWO.

The first thought that came into Frank's head was that he should not have to go to plough that
day.  The second was, that it was breakfast-time, that he was very hungry, and that he had
nothing to eat. This was not so pleasant; but proceeding to "farm" his pockets, which in Buckinghamshire
dialect means to rummage, he discovered a small piece of very hard bread.  With this scanty
meal he was obliged to be satisfied, and presently continued his journey in a tolerably cheerful
frame of mind.  Where he was going and how he was to earn his living he did not know; but on
one subject he was quite resolved, he would not go back till he was too big and strong for
father to "whop" him.  It was hard to leave mother, and she would be sorry; but he thought
he would manage somehow to write her a letter, and put a stamp upon it with the first penny
he earned.

So reflecting, and varying the gravity of such thoughts by chasing the squirrels and the grey
rabbits that scudded across his path, he journeyed on, and by degrees reached a part of the
wood quite unknown to him.  He began to wonder now what he should do if he did not soon come
to a cottage or some place where he could ask for food, for it was many hours since he had
eaten, and he was faint with exhaustion.  Never in his life had he felt so dreadfully hungry,
and there were not even berries for him to eat at this time of the year.  At last the craving
became so hard to bear, and his head was so queer and giddy that he thought he must rest a
little while.  As far as he could judge by the sun it was about four o'clock, and he must be
a long way from Green Highlands.  He dropped down in a little crumpled heap at the foot of
a tree, and shut his eyes--nothing seemed to matter much, not even his father's anger; nothing
but this dreadful gnawing pain.  The only other thing he was conscious of was a distant continuous
sound like the sawing of wood.  He did not take much notice of this at first, but by and by
as it went on and on monotonously the idea shaped itself in his mind that where that noise
was there must be people, whom he could ask for food, and he got up and staggered on again.
As he went the sound got louder and louder, and he could also hear a voice singing.  This encouraged
him so much that he quickened his pace to a run, and soon came to a great clearing in the wood.
And then he saw what had caused the noise.

Felled trees were lying about in the round open space, and there were great heaps of curly
yellow shavings, and strange-looking smooth pieces of wood carefully arranged in piles.  Two
little sheds stood at some distance from each other, and in one of these sat a man turning
a piece of wood in a rudely fashioned lathe; as he finished it he handed it to a boy kneeling
at his feet, who supplied him with more wood, and sang at his work in a loud, clear voice.
And then a still more interesting object caught Frank's eye, for in the middle of the clearing
there burned and crackled a lively little wood-fire, and over it, hanging from a triangle of
three sticks, was a smoky black kettle.  It held tea, he felt sure, and near it were some tin
mugs and some nice little bundles of something tied up in spotted handkerchiefs.  It all suggested
agreeable preparations for a meal, and he felt he must join it at any risk.

He stood timidly at the edge of the wood observing all this for a minute, and then, as no one
noticed him, he slowly advanced till he was close to the man and boy; then they looked up and
saw him.

A wayworn, weary little figure he was, with a white face and mournful blue eyes; he had a shrinking,
frightened air, like some hunted creature of the woods; and here and there the dry brown leaves
had stuck to his clothes.  Holding out his hand, and speaking in a low voice, for he felt ashamed
of begging when it came to the point, he said:

"Please can yer give me a morsel of bread?"

The man, who had kind slow brown eyes and a very placid face, looked at him without speaking,
and shook his head at the outstretched hand.  But the boy answered with a wide-mouthed grin:

"He's hard o' hearin', my pardner is.  He don't know what yer say."

He then rose, and going close to the man shouted shrilly in his ear:

"Little chap wants summat t'eat."

The man nodded.

"He's welcome to jine at tea," he said, "and he can work it out arterwards.  Where dost come
from?" to Frank.

Frank hesitated; then he thought of a village several miles beyond Danecross, and answered
boldly, "Dinton."

"And where art goin'?"

"I'm seekin' work," said Frank.

These answers having been yelled into his ear by the boy, the man asked no further questions,
though he gravely considered the stranger with his large quiet eyes.  Shortly afterwards, having
been joined by the mate who was sawing in the other shed, the company disposed themselves round
the fire, and to Frank's great joy the meal began.  And what a meal it was!  Roasted potatoes,
tea, thick hunches of bread, small fragments of fat bacon, all pervaded with a slight flavour
of smoke--could anything be more delicious to a famished boy?  Frank abandoned himself silently
to the enjoyment of it; and though his companions cast interested glances at him from time
to time, no one spoke.  It was a very quiet assembly.  All round and above them the new little
green leaves danced and twinkled, and on the ground the old ones made a rich brown carpet;
the blue smoke of the fire rose thinly up in the midst.

At last Frank gave a deep sigh of contentment as he put down his tin mug, and the deaf man
clapped him kindly on the shoulder.

"Hast taken the edge off, little chap?" he said.

Then the two men, stretched luxuriously on the ground, filled their pipes and smoked in silence.
The boy, who was about Frank's own age, but brown-faced and stoutly built, busied himself in
clearing away the remains of the meal, and in carefully making up the fire with dry chips and
shavings; he seemed to have caught the infection of silence from his companions, and eyed the
stranger guest without speaking a word.  But Frank, who was revived and cheered by his food,
felt inclined for a little conversation; he was always of an inquisitive turn of mind, and
he was longing to ask some questions; so as the boy passed near him he ventured to say, pointing
to the neat piles of wood:

"What be yon?"

The boy stared.

"Yon?" he repeated; "why, yon be legs and rungs of cheers--that's what we make 'em fur."

"Where be the cheers?" pursued Frank.

"We send all yon down to Wickham, to the cheer factory," answered the boy; "we don't fit 'em
together here."

He seated himself at Frank's side as he spoke, and poked at the fire with a long pointed stick.

"How do they get 'em down to Wickham?" asked Frank, bent on getting as much information as
possible.

The boy pointed to a broad cart-track, which descended abruptly from one side of the clearing.

"They fetch a cart up yonder, and take 'em down into the high-road."

"And how fur is it?"

"A matter of two miles, and then three miles further to the factory, and there they make 'em
up into cheers, and then they send 'em up to Lunnon Town by the rail."

Frank remembered the great cart-loads of chairs that he had seen passing through Danecross,
but what chiefly struck him in his companion's answer were the two words "Lunnon Town."  They
fell on his ear with a new meaning.  He had read of Lunnon Town, and heard schoolmaster talk
of it, but had never imagined it as a place he could see, any more than America.  Now, suddenly,
an idea of such vast enterprise seized on his mind, that it stunned him into silence.  He would
go to Lunnon Town! Everyone became rich there.  He would become rich too; then he would go
back to Green Highlands, and give all his money to mother; there would be no need for any more
field-work, and they would all be happy.  At the thought of mother his eyes filled with tears,
for he knew how unhappy she would be when he did not come back, and how she would stand at
the door and look out for him.  He longed to set about making this great fortune at once, it
seemed a waste of time to sit idle; but he knew he must rest that night, for his legs felt
stiff and aching; besides he had to work out his meal.

In half an hour the deaf man's lathe was hard at work again, and the two boys busily employed
near.  Frank's new friend showed him how to arrange the pieces of wood neatly in piles when
they were turned and smoothed. He hummed a tune in the intervals of conversation and presently
asked:

"Can yer sing?"

Frank could sing--very well.  He was one of the best singers in Danecross choir, and Mrs Darvell
held her head very high when she heard her boy's voice in church; so he answered with a certain
pride:

"Ah, I can sing proper well."

"Sing summat," said the boy.

Frank waited a minute to choose a tune, and then sang "Ring the Bell, Watchman," straight through.
The boy listened attentively, and joined, after the second verse, in the chorus, which was
also taken up in a gruff and uncertain manner by the mate in the other shed.  The deaf man
looked on approvingly, and the lathe kept up a grinding accompaniment.

"That's fine, that is," said the boy when the last notes of Frank's clear voice died away.
"Do yer know any more?"

"I know a side more," said Frank, "and hymns too."

"Can yer sing `Home Sweet Home?'" asked the boy.

"Ah."

But this song was not so successful, for after the chorus had been sung with great animation,
and the second verse eagerly expected, something choked and gurgled in Frank's throat so that
he could not sing any more. All that night, as he lay on the bed of shavings, which he shared
with his new companion, he waked at intervals to hear those words echoing through the woods:
"Home Sweet Home--There's no place like Home."  But with the morning sun these sounds vanished,
and he began his onward journey cheerily, refreshed by his rest and food.  As he went down
the cart-track the boy had pointed out to him he sang scraps of songs to himself, the birds
twittered busily above his head, and the distant sound of the deaf man's lathe came more and
more faintly to his ears. He felt sure now that he was on his way to make his fortune, and
the wood seemed full of voices which said, "Lunnon Town, Lunnon Town," over and over again.
The thought of his mother's sad face was, it is true, a little depressing.  "But," he said
to himself, "how pleased she'll be when I come back rich!"  Then he considered what sort of
shawl he would buy for her with the first money he earned--whether it should be a scarlet one,
or mixed colours with an apple-green border, like one he had seen once in a shop at Daylesbury.

These fancies beguiled the way, and he was surprised when, after what seemed a short time,
he found himself at the edge of the wood, and in a broad high-road; that must be the Wickham
Road, and he had still three miles to walk before reaching the town and the chair factories,
where he meant to ask for work as a first step on his way to London.

It was not a busy-looking road, and the carts and people who passed now and then seemed to
have plenty of time and no wish to hurry; still, to Frank, who was used to the solitude of
Green Highlands and the deeper quiet of the woods, it felt like getting into the world, and
he looked down at his clothes, and wondered how they would suit a large town.  He wore a smock,
high brown leather gaiters reaching almost to his thighs, and very thick hobnailed boots. 
He wished he had his Sunday coat on instead of the smock, but the rest of the things would
do very well, and they were so strong and good that they would last a long time.  So this point
settled he trudged on again, till, by twelve o'clock, he saw Wickham in the distance with its
gabled red houses and tall factory buildings.  And now that he was so near, his courage forsook
him a little, and he felt that he was a very small weak boy, and that the factories were full
of bustling work-people who would take no notice of him.  He stood irresolute in the street,
wondering to whom he ought to apply, and presently his eye was attracted to the window of a
small baker's shop near.  Through this he saw a kind-looking round-faced woman, who stood behind
the counter knitting.  Just in front of her there was, curled round, a sleek black cat, and
she stopped in her work now and then to scratch its head gently with her knitting-pin.  Somehow
this encouraged Frank, and entering he put his question timidly, in his broad Buckinghamshire
accent.

The woman smiled at him good-naturedly.

"From the country, I reckon?" she said, not answering his question.

"Ah," replied Frank, "I be."

"You're a dillicate little feller to be trampin' about alone seekin' work," she said, considering
him thoughtfully.  "Is yer mother livin'?"

"Ah," said Frank again, casting longing eyes at a crisp roll on the counter.

"Then why don't yer bide at home," asked the woman, "and work there?"

"I want to get more wage," said Frank, who was feeling hungrier every minute with the smell
of the bread.  "I'll be obliged to yer if ye'll tell me how I could git taken on at the factory."

"You must go and ask at the overseer's office up next street, where you see a brass plate on
the door--name of Green.  But bless yer 'art, we've lads enough and to spare in Wickham; I
doubt they won't want a country boy who knows nought of the trade."

"I can try," said Frank; "and I learn things quick.  Schoolmaster said so."

The woman shook her head.

"You'd be better at home, my little lad," she said, "till you're a bit older.  There's no place
like home."

Those same words had been sounding in Frank's ears all night.  They seemed to meet him everywhere,
he thought, like a sort of warning. Nevertheless he was not going to give up his plan, and
having learned the direction of the overseer's office he turned to leave the shop.

"And here's summat to set yer teeth in as you go along," said the woman, holding out a long
roll of bread.  "Growing lads should allus be eatin'."

"Thank you, ma'am," said Frank, and he took off his cap politely, as he had been taught at
school, and went his way.

"As pretty behaved as possible," murmured the woman as she looked after him, "and off with
his hat like a prince.  What sort o' folks does he belong to, I wonder!"

The overseer's office was a small dark room with a high desk in it, at which sat a sandy-haired
red-faced man, with his hat very much on the back of his head.  He was talking in a loud blustering
voice to several workmen, and as Frank entered he heard the last part of the speech.

"So you can tell Smorthwaite and the rest of 'em that they can come on again on the old terms,
but they'll not get a farthing more.  Well, boy," as he noticed Frank standing humbly in the
background, "what do you want?"

Mr Green's manner was that of an incensed and much-tried man, and Frank felt quite afraid to speak.

"Please, sir," he said, "do you want a boy in the factory?"

"Do I want a boy!" repeated the overseer, addressing the ceiling in a voice of despair.  "No,
of course I don't want a boy.  If I had my will I'd have no boys in the place--I'm sick of
the sight of boys."

He bent his eyes on a newspaper before him, and seemed to consider the matter disposed of;
but Frank made one more timid venture.

"Please, sir," he said, going close up to the desk, "I'd work very stiddy."

Mr Green peered over his high desk at the sound of the small persistent voice, and frowned darkly.

"Clear out!" he said with a nod of his head towards the door; "don't stop here talking nonsense.
Out you go!"

Frank dared not stay; he slunk out into the street crushed and disappointed, for he felt he
had not even had a chance.  "He might a listened to a chap," he said to himself.

Just then the church clock struck one, dinner time, and a convenient doorstep near, so he took
the roll out of the breast of his smock-frock and sat down to eat it.  As he had never been
used to very luxurious meals it satisfied him pretty well; and then he watched the people passing
to and fro, and wondered what he could do to earn some money. The chair-factory was hopeless
certainly, but there must surely be some one in Wickham who wanted a boy to run errands, or
dig gardens, or help in stables.  What should he do?  Without money he must starve; he could
neither go on to London or back to Green Highlands.

The street was almost deserted now, for all the people who had dinners waiting for them had
hurried home to eat them, and no one had noticed the rustic little figure in the grey gaberdine
crouched on the doorstep. Suddenly a dreadful feeling of loneliness seized on Frank, such as
he had not felt since leaving home.  Even the great solitary wood had not seemed so cold and
unfriendly as this town, full of human faces, where the very houses seemed to stare blankly
upon him.  He thought of the kind baker woman, and immediately her words sounded in his ear:
"There's no place like home."  If he went to her she would try to persuade him to go back,
and that he was still determined not to do; but his golden pictures of the future had faded
a good deal since that morning, and as he sat and looked wistfully at the hard red houses opposite
he could not help his eyes filling with tears.  Fortunately, he thought, there was no one to
see them; but still he felt ashamed of crying, and bent his head on his folded arms.  Sitting
thus for some minutes, he was presently startled by a voice close by.

"What's up, little un?" it said.

Frank looked up quickly, and saw that the question came from a boy standing in front of him.
He was a very tall, thin boy, about fifteen years old, with a dark face and narrow twinkling
black eyes.  All his clothes were ragged, and none of them seemed to fit him properly, for
his coat-sleeves were inconveniently long, and his trousers so short that they showed several
inches of brown bony ankles.  On his head he wore a rusty black felt hat with half a brim,
which was turned down over his eyes; his feet were bare; and he carried under his arm a cage
full of nimble crawling white mice.

After a minute's observation Frank decided in his mind that this must be a "tramp."  Now and
then these wandering folks passed through Danecross and the neighbourhood on their way to large
towns; and, as a rule, people looked askance at them.  It was awkward to have them about when
ducklings and chickens were being reared, and Frank had always heard them spoken of with contempt
and suspicion.  Just now, however, any sympathy appeared valuable, and he smiled back at the
twinkling black eyes, and answered:

"There's nowt the matter with me.  I'm wantin' work."

The boy seemed to think this an amusing idea, for he grinned widely, showing an even row of
very white teeth.  Then he sat down on the doorstep, put his cage of mice on the ground, and
began to whistle; his bright eyes keenly observing Frank from top to toe meanwhile, and finally
resting on his thick hobnailed boots.  Then he asked briefly:

"Farm-work?"

"I'd ratherly get any other," answered Frank.  And feeling it his turn to make some inquiries,
he said:

"What do yer carry them mice fur?"

The boy looked at him for a minute in silence; then he chuckled, and gave a long low whistle.

"I say, little chap," he said confidentially, "ain't you a flat!  Just rather."

Seeing on Frank's face no sign of comprehension he continued:

"Without them little mice I should be what they calls a wagrant.  Many a time they've saved
me from the beak, and from being run in.  Them's my business; and a nice easy trade it is.
Lots of change and wariety.  No one to wallop yer.  Live like a jintleman."

He waved his hand at his last words with a gesture expressive of large and easy circumstances.
Frank glanced at his bare feet and generally dishevelled appearance.

"I don't want to live like a jintleman," he said; "I want to work honest, and git wage."

"Why did yer cut and run then?" said his companion suddenly and sharply. "Did they wallop yer?"

Frank started.  How could this strange boy possibly know that he had run away?  His alarmed
face seemed to afford the tramp the keenest amusement; he laughed long and loud, leaning back
on the steps in an ecstasy, and said at breathless intervals:

"You're just the innocentest, greenest little chap.  How old are yer?"

Frank did not answer; he was considering the best means of getting away from this undesirable
acquaintance, who presently, wiping his eyes with the cuff of his jacket, remarked with recovered
gravity:

"In course, yer know, no one 'ull take a boy what's run away."

This was a new and alarming idea to Frank.

"Won't they?" he said earnestly.

"Certingly not," continued the tramp.  "Where's yer carikter?  You 'ain't got none."

Frank hung his head.  He wondered he had not thought of this before.

"This is where it lies," pursued his companion, holding out a very dirty hand dramatically
in front of him.  "You comes, as it might be, to me and you says, `I want a sitivation.'  Then
I says, `Where's yer carikter?'  Then you says, `I 'ain't got one.'  Then I says, `Out yer go.'"

Having thus placed the situation in a nutshell, as it were, he put his hands in his pockets
and observed Frank covertly out of the corners of his eyes.  Seeing how crestfallen he looked,
the tramp presently spoke again.

"Now, in my line of bizness it's not so important a carikter isn't.  I might very likely look
over it in takin' a pal if he asked me.  In course it would be a favour; but still I might
look over it."

"Do you want a pal?" asked Frank, pushed to extremity.

"Well, I don't, not to say want a pal," replied the tramp, "but I don't mind stretching a pint
in your case if you like to jine."

The blue eyes and the glittering black ones met for an instant.

"I'll jine yer," said Frank with a sigh.

The tramp held out his long-fingered brown hand.

"Shake hands," he said.  "The terms is, halves all we git."

The bargain concluded, he informed Frank that his name was Barney, and further introduced him
to the mice, called respectively Jumbo, Alice, and Lord Beaconsfield.

This last, a mouse of weak-eyed and feeble appearance, he took out of the cage and allowed
to crawl over him, stroking it tenderly now and then with the tip of his finger.

"He's an artful one, he is," he murmured admiringly.  "I calls him Dizzy for short.  What's
your name, little un?"

"Frank."

"That sounds a good sort o' name too," said Barney; "sort o' name you see in gowld letters
on a chany mug in the shop winders, don't it?  I don't fancy, though, I could bring my tongue
to it, not as a jineral thing.  I shall call yer `Nipper,' if you don't mind.  After a friend
o' mine."

The new name appearing rather an advantage than otherwise under his present circumstances Frank
agreed to drop his own, and to be henceforth known only as the "Nipper."  This change seemed
to have broken the last link which bound him to Green Highlands and his own people.  He was
Frank Darvell no longer; he belonged to no one; the wide world was his home; Barney and the
white mice his only friends and companions.

CHAPTER THREE.

In the wandering life that followed, Frank had excellent opportunities for studying the character
of his new comrade, and it did not take long to discover two prominent points in it.  Barney
was a liar and a thief. These accomplishments, indeed, had formed the principal features in
poor Barney's education from his tenderest childhood.  He had always been taught that it was
desirable and proper to lie and steal; the only wrong and undesirable thing was--to be found
out.  To do Barney justice he very seldom was found out; nimble of finger and quick of wit
he had profited well by his lessons, and by the time Frank met him had long been a finished
scholar, and able to "do" for himself.  In spite of these failings he was a kind-hearted boy;
he would not have hurt any living thing weaker than himself, and Frank's pale face and slender
form soon appealed to his protective instincts in much the same way that his white mice did,
for which he cherished a fond affection.

If the night were cold he always managed that the Nipper had the warmest shelter, and when
provisions were scarce the least tasty morsels were always reserved for himself, as a matter
of course.  Then what an amusing companion he was!  How his ingenious stories, mostly a tissue
of falsehood, beguiled the weary way, and made Frank forget his aching feet!  He believed them
all at first, and his innocent credulousness acted as a spur to Barney's fertile invention
and excited him to fresh and wilder efforts.  On one occasion, however, his imagination carried
him beyond the limits of even Frank's capacity of belief, and from that moment suspicion began.
He had been romancing about the riches and wealth of people who lived in London (where he had
never been), and after describing at great length that the houses were none of them smaller
than the whole town of Wickham put together, he added:

"An the folks niver uses ought but gowld to eat an drink off."

Frank looked up quickly.

